

DEWAR'S the whisky of whiskies
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Jeffrey Elevating and
Conveying Machinery.
For Handling All Classes of Goods in Bulk.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., At
HOBART.
***
Radley s Orient jjotel.
PIONEE J>
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Take it back.
1 must have-
HUTTONS
Fine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S NEW BOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSENS
II
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals.
aiiy. (OwUOa/
Uy&jjftu Cut/C &*/ Oxa/X
09
tidis ~&€q C r
✓X JQA £> y y y-
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representativss, 32 S 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The great want in a climate like Australia is
a roof that will fill every condition to resist
sun, storm, rain and gale. PABCO does
all this and more. It is at once the coolest
and the best roofing in the world. Illustrated
Booklet free.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
o
; ‘ V - .V
hopper wagcons.
hoad-makinc plants
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TD
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
the plant adopted
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
SUCTION GAS ENGINES
AMD
AS GENERATING PLANTS
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 1906,
against all makers .
C. A. Mac DONALD, LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W W "V
SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral \
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties. J
DEWHHRST 8 HALLORAN, lU..
Agents.
The Bulletin
Yol. 32. —N0. 1616.]
[Thursday, February 2, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


by AUTHOR OF “THE ROSARY.”
THE MISTRESS OF SHENSTONE,
* ■" " ' in —
By Florence
L. Barclay. '
Price 3s. Od., Posted 4s-
„ „ „„, aw , a npw nove i is another delightful love story told with all the charm and sweetness which won
Mrs. Barclays newn is rank of rPOeBt fi ct ,ion. “The Mistress of Shenstone ”is characterised with
“ The Rosary Pj. wealth of imagination and sincerity of art which appeal so strongly in the earlier book.
thß WWle'nnosensea sequel to “The Rosary,” acquaintance is renewed with Myra (the Mistress of Shenstone),
Ja,ie^G£OHCfe a Roberts™ & co. prop., ltd., 23s pitt street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Euraenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bacterieiaaliy as is creosote.”
w 3?
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Soid by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON'S EI)MENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 .York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, iiew Zealand, and at 380 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
THE RED PAGE
~ -J
Chains —Edward Noble (Constable). An adorable
woman is chained to a drunken bully, who is
cunning enough to avoid the Divorce Court.
It takes an earthquake to unfasten them.
Noble attacks the injustice of the case with
some force, and exposes the horrors of the
traffic in white slaves for wealthy greasers m
Callao, Lima and other South American
towns.
Fallen Among Thieves —Stanley P. Hyatt (Dy-
mock’s Book Arcade). The whiteslave traffic
also comes into this sensational story. Hyatt
makes a policeman say that London is full of
kidnappers of young girls for S. America.
The thieves were German hide dealers in
London. Their victim, with amazing good
fortune, is enabled to execute a masterly
vengeance.
The McArdle Peerage— Evelyn Tempest (T)y-
rnock’s). A tolerable story of “a Socialist
colony ” in England suggested by the New
Australia experiment, which was not Social-
istic. The author does not seem to under-
stand the difference between Socialism and
Communism. Stewart Graham s pamphlet
on New Australia wilfully confused the two
for party purposes in Britain.
The Peer's Progress— J. Storer Clouston (Sydney
Book Club). Amusing.
SIS —Maurice Leblane (Geo. Robertson and Co.).
“ A new Ars&ne Lupin adventure.” ... A
wild absurdity.
Florence Barclay has Ijeaten all to
fritters with the lukewarm sentiment of The
Rosary —still “ the best seller.” The women who
liked that sort of thing will probably like The
Mistress of Shenstone (Geo. Robertson and Co.).
The Impudence of Some Travelling
Persons
Travel books share with fiction the burden
of popularity. They are at their best when
they enter into the realm of fiction, extract-
ing romance from reality, or putting it there
if it happens to be absent. The charm of
the unexpected is disappearing as the world
shrinks, and we cannot hope for many
strange thrills except in that other field of
romance called Science. Overland to India,
by Sven Hedin, who makes books as long as
his journeys, did not promise any excite-
ment ; the sight of it left us colder than the
reading of Peary’s North Pole. From a cur-
sory glance at The Holy Land it seems that
Robert Hichens, in this substantial book,
has surpassed the alluring descriptive
passages of his desert novels. The writer
made a note to read The Holy Land when
he has leisure to repent for the sins of youth
which he didn’t commit. But here is a
book which rewarded the searcher for the
unexpected at the very beginning.
An Eastern Voyage, by Count Fritz von
Hochberg (Dymock’s Book Arcade), arrested
attention in the first chapter, which de-
scribes a voyage to Australia on the Bremen
in 1907. There have been many travellers
to Australia ; but the Count is different.
Unlike the party by the name of Fraser,
he was out for his own amusement and
had no regard for other people’s feelings. He
wrote what he thought about them, and
let the consequences be hanged.
On the ship he held aloof with his pride
and his typewriter. (The unfortunate am-
biguity of words makes it necessary to state
that the typewriter was a machine.) The
fascination of Colombo made him regret his
decision to go to Australia.
What a mad idea to go to Australia ! I must
have been mad. A country of kangaroos and such
awful people as one has here on board the boat.
Arrived at Fremantle, the Count was
annoyed by the fuss made over the landing
of his colored servant.
I told them I thought their country was no
country fit for civilised people to go to if they
interfered with people’s servants. Ihey did
stare ! And so after I had made myself respon-
sible for,his return on board, they allowed me to
take him on shore. And what a shore ! A ever,
thank goodness, have my eyes seen such a deso-
late, untidy, miserable country. And, mind the
sky was blue'and the sun shining. But is it blue
sky? Is-it sun-shining? 1 don’t think they have
things like sun and sky in this blessed island,
everything seems topsy-turvy.
And what people ! They remind one of the
Czech miners of the lowest class, with insolent,
dogged, daring, bad-tempered, sulky expressions,
but half put on, I think to hide the pathetic yearn-
ing unhappiness in their faces, yearning for color
to rest their tired eyes on. . . .
That was a delightful beginning. Adelaide
struck him as “a wretched-looking suburban
sort of place, doesn’t give one at all the im-
pression of a town. More a townified vil-
lage, but an untidy one. Well, like almost
everything here, it came out of tlie dustpit,
helter skelter, so it can’t help it.” He
found that a title made an astonishing im-
pression in “this defiantly, insolently Social-
istic or, let us say, democratic-looking
country.” , . ,
Melbourne is an “uninteresting, largish
town, somewhat suburban-looking, with a
vulgar-looking crowd of people and over-
dressed, second-class looking women.
Sydney “looks as a suburb,” and as for
the people, “ they all look like second-class
commercial travellers.”
There is ever so much more in the same
strain.
Then the note changes. He found the
N.S.W. claret excellent, “certainly better
than the French ” ; peaches delicious—
“worth coming to Australia for,” and the
black opals magnificent. A glimpse of the
Hunter River country modified his views of
the whole continent.
I’m afraid that if I had stopped a little bit
longer I should never have returned to Europe.
It was all so fresh, so natural, so sensibly simple
and unaffected, so spacious and unprejudiced, so
wide and nobody to cramp you. ... Decidedly,
Evviva ! New South Wales. It did away with
all the unpleasant impressions I had of Australia
and its people.
That’s the sort of man he is—flinging out a
string of abusive adjectives at first sight
and calling them back next week. You can
think what you like about his impudence;
but he is engagingly frank and altogether
an amusing cuss. .
Maoriland staggered him by producing
people who wore only one shirt a week, lhe
Maoris, he is sure, will be a nuisance if they
don’t die out quickly, and the people “ don’t
know how to make the best of their really
pretty country.”
On returning to Melbourne he found it
piping hot:
All the horses were wearing hats, and people
were dying of sunstroke like flies.
That, of course, accounts for our small
population.
From Australia he went on to Mew
Guinea, India and Japan, and anyone in
search of entertainment might do worse
than follow His Magnificence in this journal
—written apparently in his own English.
“Howard’s End”
One aspect of British life which excites-
the admiration of parvenus is the strong tie
between the Family and the Place. (That
is, amongst the people who own places; the
several millions of landless people don’t
count.) Patriotism, as Chesterton lias pro-
bably said, is centred in the hearthstone ; and
the Britisher’s interests spread slowly from
his house to the outside world. The hand of
Time gives an artistic value to old houses ;
family sentiment is added to them, and “the
stately homes of England” become temples
in which the josses of Respectability receive
daily worship. A wealthy Australian, anxious
to found a family, sees the necessity of
striking roots into the soil, and makes a
testamentary decree against the house being
sold. Kipling showed the glamor of an
old English house at work upon an Ameri-
can in 'the first story of Actions and Re-
actions ; and the prevalence of the sense of
place is illustrated in a good deal of recent
fiction.
Howard’s End, by E. M. Forster (Sydney
Book Club), is an unusually good novel, in
which the house that gives its name to the
book is a factor of great importance. The
Wilcoxes, who own it, and the Schlegels,
who are enamored of it, are two groups of
finely-drawn characters, the males in one
case forceful and dominating, the girls in the
other floating gracefully in cultured ease. A
young man from the uncultured crowd
beneath acts as a disturbing agent and adds
a tragic note.
Quotation would not help to an apprecia-
tion of a novel of subtle characterisation.
The style is excellent—without epigrams or
obscurities.
Louise Mack
There is a good deal of smart writing in
Louise Mack’s latest— The Romance of a
Woman of Thirty (Alston Rivers) :
Age is like marriage. It can be arranged.
Shades of expression passed over her face as
though drawn by oxen She put on her ex-
pressions as positively as she put on her boots,
this little woman with the staring blue eyes and
head no hat could ever fit. Her sculpture was
extraordinary. It recalled old nightmares.
To-day I have been alone with words, sweet
words, keen Words, winged words.... I have
been wandering among words like knives, words
that were half panther, half wolf ; words fragrant
as heliotrope, white as ice, warm as midday,
passionate as a Chopin waltz; words that herded
together like buffaloes and rushed across prairies
with the wind in their manes. ... “Do you
know what makes the Benediction so beautiful ? ”
he broke off suddenly. ... “To some it inay
be religion. ... I discovered another reason.
The ‘O ’ sounds —The Love of God . . . the
fellowship of the Holy Ghost . . . the com-
munion of saints.” He rolled out the “O’s.”
“Those ‘O’ sounds steal upon the brain like a
wind bearing again and again the same fragrance.”
As in The Red Rose of Summer, the woman
who has “arranged” her age at 30 loves
a younger man. She keeps another on the
string all the way to Sydney and back, quotes
Roderic Quinn and Boake, and disburdens
herself of many clever remarks in her
spasmodic career. The lyric prose of The
Romance is worth reading, and makes one
think what a fine book Mrs. Creed could
write if she were not chained to the Harms-
worth press.
Rone Tiki Dialogues by A. A. Grace (Gor-
don and Gotcli). Grace, who knows the
Maoris well, has extracted the views ot a
typical warrior-about-town, a philosopher
with a sense of humor and a taste lor drink .
Hone Tiki’s language looks barbarous in
print; but it can be acquired quickly, and
there is some fun as well as sense in his
remarks. Hone explains why he did not
bring his wife, Makareta, to town :
When Makareta she see t’e noo clo’es in t’e shop,
she allasame as t’e Pakeha when he see t e wai
piro in t’e pub. He see t’e wai piro he trmk—
trhik—trink—he no stop. When Makareta she
see t’e noo clo’es in t’e shop, she buy—buy buy
she no stop. .. . Now, Mitta Kerehi, I tell you-
T’e wahine belonga t’e Pakeha, she say, Aiv
husban’, he trinkee too much t’e wai piro. All
right, we shut up all t’e pub. Werrv good, t e
husban’ belonga t’e wahine Pakeha he say,
“My wahine she buy too much te does. All
right, we shut up all t’e shop where t’e wahine she
That werry good talk. That t’e way I like.
When t’e Pakeha shut up all t’e shop t’en I bring
Makareta into t’e towna.
The first part of The Birds of Australia,
by Gregory M. Mathews (Witherby and Co.,
London) has arrived in Australia. Ihe hand-
colored plates by Gronvold, Iveulemans and
other artists, are very good-looking. The
descriptive part of the work promises to be
superior in accuracy and completeness to
Gould’s famous book. Unfortunately, the
price of £2 2s. per part puts it beyond the
reach of all but those who already have too
many good things. . . . A note on Gregory
Mathews, an Australian, was printed on this
page (23/6/TO).
* * * *
Jens Lyng, who wrote the history of The
Scandinavians in Australasia, tells the story
of a Melbourne printer turned selector, and
the rough time he had until the luck changed,
in Teddu Wilkins’ Trials (George Robertson
and Co.). The adventures are real enough,
though the Wilkinses and the rest are
vaguely sketched, and it is impossible to
believe that Teddy could have recited Danish
verse to his wife. His division of mankind
into combatants, non-combatants and camp-
followers is a sensible one, and his plain
statement of the settler’s grievances against
the third section should do good.
Professor Henderson (of S.A.), in his pre-
sidential address at the Science Congress in
Sydney, urged the local universities to
encourage research work in Australian his-
tory. Tlie universities do some good, es-
pecially in the field of science; but, so far,
they have had little influence on our litera-
ture or public life—unless negatively by
choking with musty lore some bright minds
which might otherwise have been produc-
tive. They may render considerable service
—to the future historian, at any rate —if
they supervise the compilation of records
and the making of digests from them. Such
books as Miss Phillips’ A Colonial Autocracy
and Scott’s Terre Napoleon are not for the
general reader, but they have their uses,
and a digest like that made by G. C. Wheeler
in The Tribe and Intertribal Relations in
Australia might have been more useful if
made by an Australian in sympathy and in
touch with his subject.
#* * *
J.H.M.A. : Francis Gribble in Rousseau
and the Women He Loved says, with refer-
ence to Jean Jacques visit to Lngland in
1766 :
X’ublic opinion, it is true, was not unanimously
in his favor. Dr. Johnson for one took the robust
view that he ought to be transported to Botany
Bay for corrupting the young by immoral writ-
ings ; but Dr. Johnson was in a minority.
Cook did not discover Botany Bay till the
’7o’s, and the first convict settlement was at
Sydney in 1788.
British History in Verso
England’s battles have been the occasion
of many poems, and there are already a
dozen or more anthologies devoted to “the
glories of our blood and state. Henley s
Lyra Heroica is the best collection ; but a
place may be found for Poetry of Empire—
-19 centuries of British history, selected by
John and Jean Lang (Geo. Robertson and
Co.). It is one of T. and E. Jack's
“ Romance of Empire ” series at 7s. 6d. net,
and has 16 colored illustrations by W.
Rainey.
Of course there are many old acquaint-
ances amongst the poems, from Cow per s
“ Boadicea ” to Newbolt’s “Admirals All.”
Many are unfamiliar and some will be new
to the most hardened reader of verse.
John San des, of the Sydney Telegraph,
will be a proud man the day he finds him-
self sandwiched between Christina Rossetti
and Sir Walter Scott. Will Ogilvie is repre-
sented ; Andrew Lang’s “Advance Aus-
tralia ” is reprinted, and also the original
“ Souldiers Three” of Thomas Ravenscroft
(1592-1640), representing the unnamed em-
pire builders :
Wee be souldiers three,
Pardona moy ie vous pree,
Lately come forth of the Low Country
YVith never a penny of mony.
Fa la la la lantido dilly
Alfred Noyes does not appear at all,
and a rollicking ballad of Franky Drake
by Francis Sinclair has been missed by
all anthologists. Sinclair was a Maori-
land pressman in the ’seventies, and pub-
lished Ballads and Poems of the Pacific
by “Philip Garth” in 1885. The ballad,
written long before the first appearance of
Newbolt, is worth reprinting :
WITH FRANKY DRAKE.
( In the Year of Grace, 1584- )
I sailed with Franky Drake, in fifteen eighty-
four,
I sailed with Franky Drake, fair and free;
We muster’d just four score
When we stood out from the Nore.
Stauncher men ne’er sailed before
Over sea.
We cruised off Margarita, and took a town or two,
And lined our pockets well with Spanish gold ;
Then our captain, bold and true,
Said, “ My lads, this will not do ;
We grow fat, my valiant crew,
Fat and old.
“ In Santa Martha Bay, four galleons that I ken
Are loaded deep with bars of Spanish gold ;
Each rates two hundred men —
Eight hundred ! —Well, what then?
We are safe with one to ten,
Comrades bold ! ”
And we answered, “ Ready all, gallant Franky ! as
you please.
We will follow, captain ours, where’er we may 1
And we up before the breeze,
As it kissed the spicy trees,
And across the Indian seas
Slid away.
We rounded Cape Gallinas as the tropio sun sank
low, .
And by dawn we had the pretty birds in sight,
All sailing in a row,
With their wings like drifted snow,
And their carronades aglow
In the light.
With their long, low Spanish lines, and their
banners trailing free,
And their double tier of guns run fiercely out;
While they hailed us o’er the sea,
Grandly asking who were we!
And we answered on the lee
With a shout :
“We be men of merry Devon ! We be all true
Englishmen,”
And their cannon thundered fiercely m reply ;
So we fought them there and then,
Fought them gaily, one to ten !
Fought them, knowing like true men
How to die.
So we laughed and fought away, and many
wounded sore
Never murmured in their last and awful need ;
But when the fight was o’er,
We mustered not four score !
But men ne’er did before
A braver deed.
And the Dons struck flags at last from every
tapering mast,
Struck flags and yielded in their stately way ;
And many a brave soul passed,
Many a stout lad fought his last,
While the cannon thundered fast
On that day.
And ’twas wondrous fair, I ween, all the gorgeous
jewels there,- .
And the golden bars that glittered in the hold ;
Great heaps so pure and fair,
You could see your shadow there,
A wondrous sight and rare,
Of wealth untold 1
So we took great spoil of jewels, and we took
great spoil of gold,
But great glory was the spoil we most did take,
In the merry days of old,
W hen we did as we were told,
When We sailed so free and bold
With Franky Drake.
jp rom The Starlit Mire, a book of epigrams
by J. Bertram and F. Bussell, with drawings
by Austin Spare (Lane) :
Happiness only comes to those who have more
aense than sensibility.
, . .
The Great Silence . . . de mortuis nil nm
bonum.
' ’ knowledge of the things we
witbout fee ling the want of them.
*'“ u s J _ .
woman’s way. To be either on somebody
else’s knees or her own.
A man’s reputation depends on what he is, a
woman’s on what she isn’t.
••* • ' ■
There is honor amongst thieves . . . that is
why ordinary business pays better.
Mo ' can 118 made i n two ways-out of Dives
an( j out Lazarus. The former is so difficult
that it is seldom attempted,
Repentance only becomes genuine when the op-
portunity to sin has gone.


<a
IN FULL
SWING.
Send for Sale Catalogue.
Posted Free
on Request.
LAST DAY:
Saturday, Feb. 18
Harland’s Varnishes.
REDUCED DURING THE SALE.
Johnson’s Kalsomine.
For mixing with hot water. These shades only,
Nos. 25, 60, 72, no. 51b. packets.
Usual price, 1/9 ; reduced to 1/3.
Paint Prices Pruned.
56'tins Masury’s Coach Painters’ Orange Chrome.
1 lb. tins. Usual price, 1/8 ; reduced to 1/3.
6 tins Blundell & Spence’s Green Paint, suitable
for Venetian blinds. Ready for use, dries with
a brilliant gloss. 7lb. tins.
Usual price, 6/6 ; reduced to 5/6
Blundell and Spence’s Varnish.
50 Boat Copal, pint tins.
Usual price, 2/2 ; reduced to 1/9
100 Boat Copal, quart tins.
Usual price, 3/10 ; reduced to 3/3
Specially prepared to withstand the action
of salt water.
Lincrusta Walton Dado Rails, Borders
and Panels.
Produced in high relief and solid, thus lending
itself to any scheme of decoration.
A useful line for decorators and builders, is an
excellent substitute for carved wood, and when
well glued on is just as durable. It is specially
suitable for panelling mantelpieces, doors, side-
boards and every description of furniture where
relief carving effects are desired.
In widths, 3 3%, 4912 inches
Usual price -/3 ~J6 -/6# 1/2 1/4 per yard
Reduced to -/3 74 74# -/& 7 10 ..
In panels, 18 x 10 28 x 10 20 x 18 36 x 21 inches
Usual price 1/- 1/6 2/- 2/- each
Reduced to -/6 -/9 1/- 1/- „
260 rolls Leatherette Wall Papers, 8 yards
long by 19 inches wide. In shades of Terra Cotta
and Green. These goods are finished with a
high-gloss surface, and are eminently suited for
dadoes, etc.
Usual price, 3/ ; reduced to 2/3 roll.
Borders to match ~ -/2 ~ 71# yd.
REDUCTIONS IN WALL PAPERS.
Being Printed in Oil, are less likely
than Other Kinds to Absorb Injurious
Particles.
Usual Price. Reduced to
Suitable for Dining Rooms, Bedrooms,
Kitchens, &c.
600 rolls Light Pulps . roll -/3'/z 7 2 /^
700 ~ ~ . 74# 73/2
900 ~ ~ . 76 74#
Suitable for Drawing Rooms, Best
Bedrooms, &c.
900 rolls Gold . . roll -/7 -/6
600 ~ ~ . -/8 76#
600 ~ ~ . . 1/- -/9
In Delicate Shades and Artistic Designs.
600 rolls Satinettes . roll -/10 -/8 ' -~
450 „ ~ . 1/- 79"
35° ~ » • i/3» 7 6 7-. 73
Other Wall Papers at Sale Prices.
750 rolls Borders and Friezes, assorted, in tvidths
of s#in., 7in., ioin.
Usual price . 2/- 2/6 2/9 3/-
Reduced to . 1/3 1/6 1/9 2/-
Patterns sent on application.
Renowned Organs.
PACKARD ORGAN, Cabinet Top, with
Bevelled Mirror, Eleven Stops, 5 octaves.
Usual price, £lB/10/-. Reduced to £l7/15/-.
PACKARD ORGAN, Low Top, for Church or
Mission use, Twelve Stops, 5 octaves.
Usual price, £2.0. Reduced to £lB/10/-.
Same model as above, but with 15 Stops.
Usual price, .£22/10/-. Reduced to £2l.
VACUUM FLASKS REDUCED.
In the following list we quote VACUUM FLASKS that have been
substantially reduced in price. The makers have abandoned the
patterns listed, and we are therefore able to offer these reliable
Flasks, Jugs and Picnic Jars at prices that must effect a speedy sale.
The VACUUM FLASKS are absolutely reliable, in perfect order,
and will keep their contents hot or cold for 24 hours without chemicals,
without trouble, and always ready for use.
PERFECT VACUUM FLASKS.
These flasks are invaluable to travellers, motorists and sportsmen, useful in every home, and
invaluable in the sick room. Steaming hot liquids or ice-cold drinks are always obtainable.
Vacuum Glass is easily and inexpensively replaced in the event of accidental breakage.
Usual Reduced
The
Price.
Pints.
11/6
13/6
16/-
17/-
21/-
9/6
to.
Pints.
8/6
10/6
11/6
12/6
16/-
7/-
Usual Reduced
Price. to.
Quarts. Quarts
21/- 15/6
23/-
25/-
26/-
3i/ 6
15/6
17/6
19/-
20/-
24/-
12/-
JARS.
Enamelled Metal Casing, with Aluminium Top and Drinking Cup (Dull)
Imitation Leather Casing, with Aluminium Top and Drinking Cup (Dull)
Enamelled Metal Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom and Drinking Cup
Imitation Leather Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom and Drinking Cup
All Nickel . .
Vacuum Glasses, to replace breakages
PERFECT VACUUM PICNIC
The Perfect Vacuum Picnic Jars will hold a Dinner for several persons, and are equally suitable
for all Foods arid Beverages. They are unrivalled with regard to insulation of heat and cold. The
patented combined cover and stopper, which is made of the best india-rubber, has a perfectly smooth,
impervious surface, which is free from pores ; it can, therefore, be washed and purified, and is positively
the best from a hygienic point of view. The screwed cover ensures the vessel remaining hermetically
closed in whatever position it 'may be placed, or however it may be shaken, whilst allowing the vessel
to be opened or closed without difficulty. Usual Price Reduced to
(Quarts)
Enamelled Metal Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom and Drinking Cup
Imitation Leather Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom and Drinking Cup
Leather Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom and Drinking Cup
All Nickel . .
Vacuum Glasses, to replace breakages .
PERFECT VACUUM JUGS.
The Perfect Vacuum Round Form Jugs are unequalled in regard to insulation of Heat and
Cold. Thejug is closed by means of a cork plug, fitted with elegant metal mountings, and as 1 the cork
is not pierced, no heat can escape. The construction of the spout allows the cork to be placed in
position or taken out without difficulty, and the jugs are excellently adapted for Sick Rooms.
The Perfect Vacuum Straight Form Jugs combine a modern, artistic form with practical
advantages which stand absolutely unrivalled. The wide opening admits of solid food —as Meat,
Vegetables, Ice and bruit —being put in and taken out in the most convenient manner. The jug is
also excellently suited for keeping Tea and Coffee hot, as well as Iced Drinks, Lemonade, Wine, etc.,
cold. Moreover, the wide opening allows of thorough inspection and easy cleaning of the inside, and
at the same time it increases materially the durability of the vessel. The closing is effected by
means of a cork stopper of first-class quality, mounted elegantly in metal.
Perfect Vacuum Round Form Jugs.
Usual Reduced Usual Reduced
Price. to. Price. to.
Pints. Pints. Quarts. Quarts
Nickelplated . 34/- 25/6 47/6 37/6
Silverplated, polished . . 70/- 52/6
Perfect Vacuum Straight Form Jugs.
Usual
Price.
1-Quart.
Nickelplated . 50/-
Silverplated . 85/-
Rednced
to.
1-Quart.
38/6
67/6
Usual Reduced
Price. to.
2-Quarts. 2-Quarts
66/- 51/6
no/- 90/-
Frister & Rossmann’s Sewing Machines
Frister & Rossmann , s lock-stitch high-arm sewing machines are
Simple, Durable, Light Running and Noiseless, and possess all the latest
improvements, including Fast and Loose Wheel, Self-acting Thread Lifter, Silent Shuttle Action, Self-
setting Needle, Shuttle Lifter, Self-threading Shuttle, Self-acting Winder.
No. 15 F. & K. improved Lock-
stitch Hand Machine, with elegant
Walnut Cover, on Walnut base,
Fast and Loose Wheel, Patent Self-
acting Bobbin Winder, and full set
of attachments. This Machine is
specially suitable for family use ; it
will sew anything from the finest
muslin to the stoutest cloth.
USUAL PRICE £3.
REDUCED TO £2/12/6
Packing Free.
No. 19 F. & R. Improved Lock-
stitch Sewing] Machine, Hand and
Treadle combined, inlaid Walnut
Cover, Drawer in centre, including
all the latest improvements and
full set of attachments. Packing
for the country 2/6 extra. This
Machine (No. 19) may be removed
from Stand and used as a Hand
Machine like No. 15.
USUAL PRICE, £4/7/6
REDUCED TO £3/17/6
No. 19. SALE PRICE, £3/17/6
Free with each Machine, complete set of
the latest attachments.
Following: are the attachments supplied
free with each Machine: 12 Needles
(assorted), 6 Shuttle Bobbins, Tucking:
Cauge and Screw, Adjustable Hemmer,
Narrow Hemmer, Medium Hemmer, Seam
Feller, Ordinary Presser, Cording Presser
No. 1, Cording Presser No. 2, Braider,
Friller, Adjustable Binder, Quilting Cauge,
Screwdriver, Oilcan, Wrench and Instruc*
tion Book.
F. & R.. No. 50.
No. 50 F. & R. Hand Sewing
Machine, as illustration, with
Vibrating Shuttle, Walnut Base
and Cover, including all latest
improvements, and full set of
attachments.
USUAL PRICE, £3/17/6
REDUCED TO £3/7/6
Packing Free.
No. 60 F. & R. Sewing Machine,
with Vibrating Shuttle, Hand
and Treadle combined, inlaid
Walnut Cover and one Drawer,
including all the latest improve-
ments and full cet of attach-
ments. This Machine may be
removed from the Stand and
used as a Hand Machine as
No. 50.
USUAL PRICE, £5/10/-
REDUCED TO £415/-
Packing for the Country, 2/6
extra.
For Orchard, Field
and Garden.
Garden Hose.
30 coils, each 60 feet, x 3 ply
Oceanic Hose ... foot -/8 ... -/7
300 feet Suction Hose... 2/- ... 1/8
100 feet Suction Hose... 1/10 ... 1/6
Baths Reduced.
Best No. 10 Porcelain Ena-
melled (not second quality
vitrous enamel), with nichel-
plated fittings, latest pattern,
sft. 6in. . . . Reduced to 85/-
Best No. 12 Porcelain Ena-
melled Baths, with nickel-
plated fittings, sft. 6in. . ~ 92/6
Galvanized Iron Plunge Baths, oui own manufac-
ture, strongly stayed, complete with 2}4in-
brass plug and washer, and approved by the
Water and Sewerage Board—
-sft. sft. 6in. 6ft.
Reduced to 26 gauge 13/- 14/9 16/- each
~ 24 ~ 16/- 17/6 18/6 ~
Usual Reduced
Price to
Adjustable Bath Seats . 4/- 3/6
Wood Bathroom Gratings . 5/- 3/6
Sink Draining Frames, with tray 7/6 5/-
Bath Heaters.
The “Boss” Spray Water Heater,
for Gas, is the outcome of many costly experi-
ments, resulting in perfect heat radiation. The
“ Boss” Heater is made of copper throughout,
and the water is sprayed over a large heat sur-
face immediately before it falls into the bath.
No. 1 Spray Water Heater throws two
gallons of water, heated to 127 deg. Fahr. per
minute, thus securing a hot bath in a very
short time —
Usual Price 75/-, Reduced to 70/-
With Shower—Usual Price 95/-, Reduced to 90/-
The “Boss” Spray Water Heater
as above, but with combination tap. Accidents
prevented owing to tap being locked by pilot
cock. Safety device turns gas and water on
together.
Usual Price 90/-, Reduced to 85/-
No. 2 Spray Water Heater, on the same
principle as No. 1 but of a greater capacity,
throws three gallons of water, heated to 120
deg. Fahr., per minute, thus giving plenty of
hot water for a bath in less than five minutes.
Usual Price 95/-, Reduced to 90/-
These Heaters can also be fitted with safety
taps at an extra cost of 10/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets* Brisb
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.— Local Director: A. MESTON.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
ISS
m
ii i
hi
rlir
rr
nr
m
■
m
&2£
4u
jf^jfl
I _!?>
r Pi!
it » ~~riKi
'crT—
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects :
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “ S and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors). Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors', or any other examination.
THIS
WHEEL
is one of the distinctive features of the latest
AUSTRALASIAN MODELS of the famous
B.S.A. CYCLE FITTINGS
and has been specially designed as a protection
against the possible substitution of cheap imitation
parts for the GENUINE B.S.A. in your bicycle.
SPECIAL ,'OTICE. —This Chain Wheel embodies the registered
B.S.A. Tra_ > < lark, which renders the fitting of it to any bicycle
other than a Genuine B.S.A. punishable by law.
This Chain Wheel, like the B.S.A. Transfer, is the mark of
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
For fuller particulars of B.S.A. Pittings, Eadie Coaster Hub, Two-Speeds,
&C., obtain the latest B.S.A. Handbook (Australasian Edition). Post freo from
D Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two*speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®. Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
X3he BULLETIN POST CARDS
W ' ' PACKET CF TEH 6d.
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1549.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
„ . p a .toral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Freehold and C.P. inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
of Government Debentures, Inscrioea AT LOWEST CU rr E NT RATES OF INTEREST.
tralian States or New ea. condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
Our new Mortgage Deed durin „ a nv vear. without notice or payment of any fine,
up to 20 P er ° ,j L c Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, 5•• •> Hon R j Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. MX C .TO>Hon *. Richara Teece . F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Adrian Knox, Esq.Jv.C. QV nwFV H. W. APPEREY. Secret-
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing?
5. A Cold in Your Head?
6. A Fit of Sneezing?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
••A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
A Leading Publicist and Criminologist
and Justice of the Peace says there is
no Medicine to equal Clements Tonic.
“ I Speak from Personal Experience of its Merits.”
Mr. Albert Sydney Watson, M.A., LL.B., J.P., who gives
’ this Clements Tonic testimony, was recently a sitting Magistrate
for Queensland ; also J.P. for South Australia, and recently
directed the Aviation Exhibition in Adelaide. He founded and
was secretary of the Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society of New
Zealand, and on his departure was presented with an illuminated
address, signed by the Chief Justice, the Stipendiary Magistrate,
the visiting Justice of the Prisons, the Mayor of Wellington,
Members of Parliament, etc., in recognition of his organising
services. The Government of the Australian States have always
been glad of his opinion on their prison systems (vide newspaper
reports). He is Director of the Progress Advertising Agency
Propy., Ltd., Melbourne, and directly associated with other
large businesses. He writes as follows :
“ 368 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
“November 6, 1910.
“CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“Undoubtedly Clements Tonic is the standard
remedy of Australia. There is no imported medicine
to equal it, and nothing manufactured in Australasia
to be mentioned in the same breath with it. It has
the most powerful possible tonic and recuperative
properties, while at the same time it is a perfectly safe
remedy, and may be used by old and young alike.' I
have proved the value of this medicine, and hence
speak from personal experience of its merits. You
may use this as you think fit.
“ (Signed) _ ALBERT S. WATSON,
“M.A., LL.B., of U.S.A.”
»
Very many persons who have used CLEMENTS TONIC, and have
been entirely cured of their ailments, declare that to have this remedy
in the house is to be ensured against ill-health. They write thus to the
proprietors, therefore it is wise for everyone to keep it, because here are
three effects of its use(l) It makes the liver active ; (2) the heart
regular ; (3) the nerves sound as steel. If these vital functions are kept
in this order, you keep well. All Chemists and. Stores sell it everywhere.


That
Little
Hacking
Cough
Hard coughs are bad enough, to
be sure. But it’s often the lit-
tle, hacking, tickling, persistent
cough that means the most,
especially when there is a his-
tory of weak lungs in the family.
What should be done? Ask your
doctor. He knows. Ask him
about the formula on the label
of every bottle of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. Ask him if this med-
icine has his full approval for
throat and lung troubles. Then
do as he says.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J, C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass,, U, S. A.
TEH DAYS' FREE TRIAL
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
* Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
[ Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears;
i Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
Jlatest
{models
£3.10 to £9
Tyros and accessories half usual prices.
AGCNTS
wanted in each district. Write
at once, using sufficient postage*
for Free Art Catalogue and out
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 280. LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent,!s7 Clarence St., Sydney.
m
■
ft's*
£
a
w
Four * ELEY*
Favourites!
The world-wide and regularly in*
creasing sales of ELEY' Cartridges
among ihe most exacting sportsmen
afford ample evidence of their relia-
bility and general excellence
Above illust• anon s s how I 2 bu*c smokeUfS
Eley 'Vulcan’— a hgbd> loaded smokeless
cartridge.
Eley'Universal'—a bincl* powder cartridge,
with an enormous sale
‘Eley Smokeless’ —a popular smokeless car*
tndge, millions are sold annually-
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Illustration shows the
Eley 44
‘WINCHESTER-
Central Fir
Cartridge
Obtainable
through all
Gunnutkers
and Dealers
Eley Bros. Ltd
London
FOR
RHEUMATISM
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
$
■s
n , m0 7OW»
ir , sh...^T
518®
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 ffl. 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although nume' -
ous imitations have appeared from time to time n'.ne
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
Bonningtws
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
<r>
floN* 1
ißlSfijg
Do not take imitations —just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
' in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
;
V
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Horlick’s Malted MEIk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch.
No confusion arises when you order Horlick’s, as only one hind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of Horl ick’s as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
* Samples : 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co.. Slough, Bucks, Eng.
A CURE
FOR
VARICOSE
VEINS.
We have discovered a method of treat-
ment, by which the very worst cases of
Varicose Veins can be rapidly and per-
manently cured. In fact, so wonderful is
the method, that inside the first three
days every bit of the agonising pain that
nearly drives you mad will be drawn out,
and the ultimate gradual contraction of
the distending vein, and its restoration to
a normal state is a matter only of a few
weeks’ continuous treatment.
The old method of cutting out varicose
veins is now out of date, and their per-
manent removal is a matter of a few weeks
only under properly applied treatment.
THE VECSEY METHOD
OF TREATMENT of varicose
veins, ulcers, and eczema is one of purely
local application only. A home system
of treatment, easy to use, and positively
wonderful in its effects The first appli-
cation relieves in bad cases.
Old-standing cases of varicose veins and
ulcers, that have existed for as much as
twenty-five years, and have resisted all
efforts to cure them, have by this dis-
covery been rended almost harmless and
entirely curable under a few weeks’ treat-
ment. Under this treatment you need not
lav up or suffer any detention from your
ordinary daily routine.
Consultation
“ * • 1006 B
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, Vari-
cose Ulcers, or Eczema, CALL and
interview our Chief Consultant. He will
will explain the treatment to you and
advise you free of charge. . . If you
cannot call, send 2d. stamp ft>r Free
Illustrated Book giving full particulars.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney
(corner Castlereagh and Market Streets).
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being a curse in your home and a nuisance to
your friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street. Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. -[3
BY PURCHASING The Lone Hand each
month j'ou encourage Australian Art and
Literature. It costs Sixpence.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have ypu grown tired ol wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spile ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something <1 -
tireb' new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TP.IAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease lrom the first day’s use. No
ste- 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is-made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Poßtel Free
WINSLOW co.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Waterman's
(Ideal)
FouritaixiPen
The
Pen to Trust.
The more useful an article is, the more
imitators it has. There are now many Foun-
tain Pens, there is only one Waterman s
Ideal. Only one pen which possesses the
essential characteristics of a per/ect
Fountain Pen only one, and that is
Waterman s Ideal.
You will not have trouble with Water-
men's Ideal. It will always write when
you want it to write, it will neither leak
nor spurt, it will not get out of order, it will
last a lifetime. Nibs supplied to suit any
handwriting.
12/6 and upwards. From Stationers,
Jewellers. &c„ throughout the world.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd,
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
Ask to see Waterman’s Ideal Safety
Pens and Pump-fi ling Pens,
%
WU/IG
*>e s
MW
V/.
4 » <s
MORRIS'S
ftI EYE,
OIHTMEHT
CURES
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dreams.
Young shepherd, harping on Judean hills,
And setting all thy dream to melody,
Cease from thy labors. Egypt, in her pride,
Writes large her name in stone where the Nile
spills
His tribute waters, and all Asia streams,
With Babylon and Asshur, over thee.
The shepherd smiled. His simple rustic themes
Rang down the changing years and time defied.
His dreams endured beyond the carven stone
In which forgotten Pharaohs put their trust.
What flame is this that such a radiance flings
Into the age-long morning ? Dreams alone,
Full of the breath of all eternal things,
Outlast the oldest peoples. Men are dust,
But in the dust is gold—the gold of dreams.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Sea.
There is a glamor in the sea
That draws the poet’s heart; and he
Finds there an endless treasury.
He 'sings his songs of storm and strife
As if he loved a sailor’s life
Far better than he does his wife.
This love implies he’s not been there;
I also love the ocean’s stir,
But strictly as a passenger.
Some men may like to boss the sea
With salted beef for food ; but the
Saloon is good enough for me.
I love to feel the ocean's swell
Majestic, free ; and poems well
Which I ean find no words to tell.
But though I lack the poet’s skill,
My right to sing is better still:
I’ve been to sea and not been ill.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Ballade of an Envelope.
Importunate, your name sweeps o’er
The chords of memory ; mocks the test
Of dumb disuse, and as of yore
Awakes such echoes in my breast
That my throat sobs —as when the jest
Of fate recast my horoscope,
And in your signature compressed
A heartache in an envelope.
The written word remains—what more
Of things forlorn, my heart knows best;
It may record, but not restore
The pledge that perished in the west,
When we, ere our dear dream had rest,
Faced s unset from a . bilfeideSs slope
And paved the way for. memory’s guest—
A heartache in an envelope.
“A toi toujours ! ” —what loving lore
That promise opened to my quest,
Until Eternity forbore
To bind itself to faith’s behest;
Mine eyes may read no further, lest
I rob love’s jpave of its dead hope,
And of its fragile shroud divest
A heartache in an envelope.
Joyeuse! In time all wounds are drest;
Only by night their dumb mouths ope,
Lest cynic day should find confest
A heartache in an envelope.
VICTORIA.
KEŢLEDRUM
The Little Ghost.
The little ghosts at midnight cry
About my window ceaselessly.
They say it is the winds that call,
And all the little ghostly feet
That scamper down the quiet street.
Are drifting leaves, that’s all.
They do not know. They pity me,
Remembering my baby died.
I laugh because they cannot see
The sweet thing that I hide.
They took away the child I lost,
But I have kept his little ghost.
And now all day he plays about
In the dim corners of the room ;
I see. his little arms held out,
His bright eyes laughing through the gloom,
Sometimes he creeps around the chair
To lay a soft hand on my hair.
But when the windy night comes down,
And silent is the world of men,
When storm thieves loot the sleeping town,
My little ghost seems restless then.
I know lie hears them call to him,
H Those little lonely ghosts outside ;
I see their fluttering forms and dim
About my window glide.
Driven across the blistering night.
They cower and shiver with affright.
I speak to him. He answers not.
Is it their weeping that he hears?
Poor ghosts of children long forgot,
Who must go homeless through the years.
Ah no ! I’ll throw my window wide,
And he shall call them all inside.
S.A.
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
'lt' V\
n *
rr~*
SfBiHfHBR
ffiSg&s
■Sib
CLOSED AS COUCH.
■^r-
raJ 3 *
b/>*/ vl
SBW
*B^
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
m
Cannot get out o( order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; i Q
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
LIQUEUR.
BENEDICTINE
HEALTHFUL* ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR JACK** Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide • Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
OLD ORKNEY
WHISKY
REAL
'i
■v
r-
\Y^
oo
fcalLiqueur'ffhi^.
n £ Co«fiEi£s Distillery L t ?
Proprietors of
OTROHMESS DISTIIURY .
Orkdey Scotland.
APAREOLD SCOTCHES
The unvarying
excellence of Old
Orkney Whisky
is due to the fact
of its being made under absolutely
hygienic conditions in the old-time
way and thoroughly matured*
McConnell’s Distillery Ltd.,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents :
SYDNEY—Tooheys Ltd.
MELBOURNE-T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine.
LAUNCESTON—JoIm McKenzie & Co.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. Gd. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
New NecKlets
that must appeal to all lovers
of beautiful jewellery and
good judges of value !
BY far the most beautiful and extensive collection
of exquisite NecKlets imaginable is now at “ Tbe
Treasure House.” Much of tbis rare jewellery
recently arrived, all excelling in quality, design and
worKmanship anything we have yet seen, and repre-
senting tbe most favored styles at present in London,
Personal or postal orders receive prompt, efficient
attention at all times.
■a
n
s
r s
S
r ■•ail
sm
mm
V
/
•*>
V*.
*«#»
/
6
Fine Amethyst Necklet, two large dark Amethysts
and three Pearl-set leaves on knife-edge bar,
i5Ct. Gold, £4/10/=.
Dainty Garnet Necklet, Drop design, set five good-
quality Garnets and four Half-Pearls on knife-
edge bar, 9Ct. Gold, £2/5/=.
Elegant Peridot Necklet, set five large Peridot
drops, and small Half-Pearls, Leaf and Scroll
design, i5Ct. Gold, £7/10/=.
Exquisite Green Tourmaline Necklet, set three
large Tourmalines on knife-edge bar, with
three Green Tourmalines, Shamrock drops.
9 ct. Gold, £4/17/6.
Exclusive design Necklet, set five dark Amethysts,
two whole Pearls and 16 Half-Pearls, fancy
Scroll and Drop style, isct. Gold, £5/12/6.
Very effective Malachitb Necklet, set seven large
pear-shaped Malachite drops on fine link
chain, get. Gold, £4.
New style throw-over Necklet, set with two Tur-
quoise Matrix Drops and two Baroque Pearls,
9ct. Gold, £l/10/=.
Magnificent Necklet, set one large Pink, Oval
Tourmaline and two Pear-shaped Drops, with
eight small White Pearls between: on knife-
edge bars, isct. gold, £9/10/-
Beautiful Peridot and Pearl-set Necklet, Fern-leaf
and True Lover’s Knot design, isct. Gold, £6.
Very fine Aquamarine Necklet, set seven large fine
quality Aquamarines and seven Half-Pearls
(Drop style) on knife-edge bars, isct. gold,
£5/5/-
Very pretty Green Peridot and Pearl-set is,ct. Gold
Necklet, Leaf and Scroll design, £4.^
STEWART DAWSON S CO.
(Australia), Ltd.,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1616.
1911*
pkiok6d.
THE LAWYER IN THE PATH.
The Labor electors would in the future bitterly learn the foolishness of their action if they decided to hand over the powers to the Federal Government.
Why give these great powers to the Federal party when we have the State Legislatures?-Attorney-General Holman (N.S.W.) on the Referenda.
HOLMAN: “Stop! Stop! You’re not wan'ed! Can’t you see that those other fellows are going to deal with the matter!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets. Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in Advance, Only;
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly .... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By tending direct to Tim Bui.i.ktin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tm< Bui.i.ktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Coinintiiii cations
to he addressed to William Maclkoii, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bui.i.ktin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscript ions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
it is not a good■ thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bitli.ktin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable, to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A nstralian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, HOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tun Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. null be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it. will be understood that, the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bui.lktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bui.i.ktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkot reproduction, or
anil interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tim, Bui.i.ktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tub Bui.i.ktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Jjiulgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, lid High Uolborn, London. II .C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency\ Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr.— Thomson Stationery Co., I ancouvei, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caule and C 0.., Stationers.
U S. A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
1;0 Madison Street, Chicago*
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedde.r-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim, Bui.i.ktin metal advert bring plates,size 6iin. x Van.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 11)11.
THE MEN WHO ARE SHOVING AGAINST
FATE.
Attorney -General Holman, the plausible, clean-
shaven evil genius of the N.S.W. State Labor
party, has defined his position with regard to the
Federal referenda. He will support the proposed
amendments of the Constitution so far as he is
forced to do so by thetermsof the Labor pledge, but
no further. In other words, he will be as demo-
cratic as he must be in order to save his job, and
as Tory as he can be without losing his job. And
where the thing he is bound to vote for is so inex-
tricably mixed up with the thing which he fancies
he isn’t bound to vote for, he will apparently be
againstthe whole business, if hedares. For Holman
is the parochialist pure and simple—at least,
he is the plain, whole-souled parochialist. His
natural instincts tend towards Toryism. And the
Tory—not the worst kind who wants to go back
to the Dark Ages, but the ordinary kind who
wants to stay just where he is—travels along
easily-defined lines. In the first place, he is
against all change. "When change threatens he
raves wildly and prophesies disaster. When
change arrives he sits down hard and announces
that "disaster will be here to-morrow. When it
fails to materialise he feels no shame in the fact
that he is convicted of being a false prophet and a
maddened and ignorant romancer. He simply
m-cepts the situation, drops all mention of his
previous ravings, and approves of things so far
as they have gone. But he opposes the next
change just is virulently, and with just the same
prophecies and ravings, as he did the last one,
and his attitude is something like this : ‘ I ap-
prove of what has been done up till now. there-
fore I am an enlightened and intelligent conserva-
tive, and when I oppose further movement my
opinion, as a person of enlightenment and intelli-
gence, calls for respect.'’ That is where Hol-
man, the Tory at heart, comes in. He is an old
anti-Federalist who isn’t ashamed that his anti-
Federal forecasts of unmitigated disaster have
proved utter rot. He is an anti-Protecti onist
whose fiscal ignorance and incapacity have been
horribly exposed by the splendid progress of
N.S.W. since it secured Protection. He is such
a political back number that he is opposed to
the establishment of a court of criminal appeal,
a thing that Britain has possessed for some years,
and which even British Toryism now regards as a
most valuable institution. And his failures have
not made him ashamed. He apparently hasn t
begun to realise that he is a discredited lory seel.
So he is still prophesying.
* * * *
Holman and his kind are discoursing in a lost
cause. The logic of things is opposed to them and
they are up against the inevitable. As Australia
progresses the necessity for the transfer of more
and more power to the Federal authority becomes
apparent. The movement has been going on
almost since the beginning of things hereabouts.
At one time there were six different military
forces, varying from 21 fully-paid troops upwards.
Th*—e were six different na,val forces, one btate
hav ing a superannuated ironclad which dare not
go to sea, and another a whale-boat and a, horse
marine. They had to become unified, lhe six
different quarantine systems, under which a cer-
tain disease was shut out at a certain port but
could land at the next port and return overland
to the place which had already refused it admit-
tance, was a failure. So were the six different
sets of laws re aliens, niggers, navigation, light-
houses, banks, insurance, postage, telegraphs, etc.,
etc. When border tariffs were abolished and the
good-wage State could no longer protect itself
againstthebad-wageState, and theshort-liourState
found its throat being cut by the long-hour State,
it became evident that a lot more things would
have to be unified. The Commonwealth was
driven to impose a Federal progressive land tax,
because its Federal taxpayers were being driven
out of Tasmania and the Western District of
Victoria by the policy of crazy and arrogant
State Upper Houses which would not listen to
reason. And Federal railway ownership is
plainly coming, partly because five different
gauges are a ruinous absurdity, and partly be-
cause the absolute failure of the States to con-
struct a transcontinental railway system makes
the interference of some stronger authority neces-
sary.
*« * *
The great argument of the State Frights party
is based on the impossibility of administering a
country of this size from one centre. But 110
Federalist that The Bulletin ever met desires
to administer Australia from one centre. The
idea is that there should be less maddening
diversity in the laws that are administered from
six centres. In fact, many strong Federalists
consider the six States far too unwieldy, and
would fain administer a decently-coherent code of
Federal origin from as many as 24 centres. Even
though there are 24 State capitals or seats of ad-
ministration, there is no reason why, say, 24
utterly conflicting industrial laws should be ad-
ministered from them. And even if the railways
are managed by 20 Commissioners or Deputy-
Commissioners working from 20 different places,
that is no excuse for five different gauges—one for
every four Commissioners.
* * * *
Asa matter of fact the size of the country makes
no difference in the need for uniform legislation
in a vast number of matters. If a man, who is
doing a 30- or 40-mile trip from, perhaps, Chiltern
in Victoria to Gerogery in N.S. W'., is thrown out
half-way by reason of the insane break of gauge, the
fact that Australia contains nearly 3,000,000 square
miles of country consoles him not at all; he couldn’t
be more disturbed in his sleep or more annoyed at
the shifting of his luggage, though the country
contained only 3000 square miles. If a N.S.W.
worker at TeiUerfield finds himself being under-
sold, owing to different industrial laws, by one
just over the Queensland border at Warwick, it is
no joy to him to be told that this great country is
12,210 miles round ; he would object to be starved
out even though the Commonwealth was 12
billion miles or two yards round. If bad
potatoes reach Sydney from Tasmania or bad
characters get into Westralia from Queensland,
the fact that they have come a long way
doesn’t make them any better. And for all
practical purposes, that part of Australia
which contains the bulk of the population
isn’t such a large place these times. It is just
four days’ easy travelling from Adelaide to Rock-
hampton, whereas 100 years ago it was about 20
days’ very hard travelling from one end of little
Scotland to another ; so Adelaide and Rockhamp-
ton have quite as much need of uniform laws in
many important matters as Scotland had. And
provinces or subdivisions are quite as near to each
other in Australia as in Wales or Belgium. Sur-
prising as it may seem, N.S.W. is fully as close to
Victoria, Queensland and S.A. as London is to
the adjacent town of Greenwich, and a great
deal closer than London is to Liverpool. The
absurdity of having three sets of wholly contra-
dictory industrial laws and three sets of laws
relating to monopolies and a lot of other idlings,
between London and Greenwich, would seem re-
markable enough ; yet to the State Frights push
there is nothing absurd in the idea of balancing
three complete sets of violently diverse wage laws
and regulations on the pin-point where three
States meet, and there are four such points in Aus-
tralia. When three tariffs joined at these places
the position was different, for wages and tariffs
have to bear some relation to each other. But
with no difference of tariffs, language or race,
with much the same education and ideals
and standard of living, the policy of having
three complete industrial codes inside one square
yard of ground looks like a needless standing upon
somebody s very small dignity. It is a mighty
small dignity three of which can get into one
square vard.
* * * *
Subdivisions—a great m iny more subdivisions
than we have—are really very much required in
Australia, for the area which one official or set of
officials can effectively supervise is limited. But
the policy which seeks to make as many com-
pletely diverse sets of laws as there are sub-
divisions, so that the lawyer or land expert from
one will be of as little use as possible in another,
and the manufacturer or banker or trader or
artisan who goes from one to another will have
to learn a complete new set of rules and
regulations every time he moves, has no visible
leg to stand upon. Especially it has no leg to
stand upon when its own advocates can offer no
excuse for it save (1) their hatred of Australia ; (2)
their firm conviction that change of all kind is
horrible; and (3) their desire that their own im-
portance as subdivisional or subdivided legislators
shall not be diminished. The party which urges
the people to give an anti-Federal vote next April
—the oneof which Holman, M.L.A., is the figure-
head—has stuck its hoofs in the ground and started
to butt against Fate. It may possibly win next
April, but if it does the triumph will be short-
lived. In fact, it will be so short-lived as hot to
be worth mentioning.
A TORY PAPER’S WARNING TO
ANDREW FISHER.
What is to prevent the banks from presentingr
easily accumulate paper. It will, tnerei > Jh {
bad for the Treasurer to have half a dozen 1 >- housand
Federal notes demanding gold at one point as a thousana
or ten thousand small holders with their i P ar ti c i e 0 f
at half a dozen ceutres.-S. M. Herald leading a>title oj
25111’11 . . , „ .
When the Australian Notes Bill made its first
appearance on the political stage it was by no
means the measure that it is now. For one thing,
it included a device for keeping the Government
notes in circulation after they had been issued,
and by inserting that proviso the Government le-
eognised the necessity for some precaution against
the very danger with which the S. M. Herald now
threatens it. Unfortunately, its precaution was
put in a cumbersome and ill-advised shape.
Instead of adopting as a model the most
successful Government note issue system in the
British, Empire—that of Canada —the r ISHER
Ministry struck out a path of its own, and it
showed "less than its usual common-sense in the
selection of the path. The unworkability of this
part of its scheme being pointed out, it apparently
fell into a severe state of huff, and instead of
amending its proposals for keeping its paper afloat
it abolished them altogether, amid considerable
applause from Tory publications. As matters
stand to-day, the Australian Government, having
no bank of its own (though even if it had, one bank
wouldn’t count for very much in such a case) has
to trust to the friendliness and helpful sympathy
of private institutions to put its money on the
market, and keep it there. These institutions are
not bound to take the Federal notes. They are
not bound to put them into circulation if they do
take them. The paper being legal tender redeem-
able at the seat of government, a debtor may
offer it to a creditor, and the creditor must accept
it. But even if the creditor requests payment in
paper the debtor isn’t bound to give it. In the
original measure, every bank was required to pay
on demand in so many alternative denominations
of paper that, to comply with the law, it must
have kept impossible reserves. Now it is under
no obligation of any kind. And as the private
banks will make no dividends out of the I'ederal
notes the Government has to rely to a great ex-
tent on their warm Labor sympathies—if they
happen to possess such things—as an assurance
that they won’t leave it in a hole.
* „ * *
The situation is remarkable in various ways.
It is stated in the press that the demand for the
new notes has proved far larger than was ex-
pected, and though some £4,000,000 worth
have been issued, it has been necessary to
cable in haste for large quantities of paper
with which to print more. At the same
time, the amount in circulation seems infinitesi-
mal. The banks are allowed to trade in their own
notes till the end of June; after that they must
pay in the Federal article or in coin. In other
words, they may, if they feel so inclined, hoard
up Federal paper till June without attracting any
serious attention. Then they may goon hoarding
it up, or they may issue it freely, or they may
dash the great bulk of it down on the Federal
counter and demand instant payment, and, in de-
fault, they may declare the Commonwealth insol-
vent and advertise all over the world the failure of
Labor finance. Being gladdened by the progres-
sive land tax, and filled with joy at the threat of
the establishment of a Commonwealth bank, they
will probably feel very like doing this, whether
they do it or not. Certainly, if a time could be
selected when the Government’s cash balance was
not very high, and when. Parliament was still in
the course of its 10 months' vacation, and the
Prime Minister was away at the blessed and won-
derful Coronation, the temptation would be very
great. And now that the Federal Government
has drifted into this silly hole in its anxiety to
oblige the Tory party, the Herald carefully re-
minds it that the hole is deep and the sides per-
pendicular.
* * * *
By a curiously perverse brand of ingenuity
matters have been so fixed that nobody can make
anything worth mentioning out of the Federal
paper issue. The banks, which give £1 for each
£1 note, certainly make nothing. The Government
undertakes to hold a cash reserve of ss. in the £
against all notes issued up to £7,000,000, and 20s.
in the £ on all above that amount, so if it issues
£10,000,000 worth of paper it will have to hold
£4,750,000, and will have the use of £5,250,000.
But the position, when there is nothing to prevent
millions of notes being cashed any day, is so
uncertain that it will probably decide to keep a
much larger reserve, and thus reduce the usable
money to comparatively small dimensions. Al-
most the only thing it can safely do with any part
of the money is to buy up State securities with it,
so that that part of the fund which isn’t actual
gold will at least consist of fairly liquid assets.
And even then it will be wise not to put too much
faith in the liquid character of the assets. If the
demand is sufficiently sudden, even the most
liquid assets tend lo solidify ; and if this demand
comes it will be sudden.
* * * *
From first to last the business has been slipshod,
unaccountable and unsatisfactory. If the Fisher
Ministry had been content to follow a beaten track
which has already led to success it would
have adopted the Canadian system, whereby
banks are required to hold 40 per cent, of their
cash reserves in Federal paper, and also to keep,
over and above that, a supply of small notes and
to pay them out on demand. That would have
supplied the Treasurer with at least twice as much
cash as lie is likely to get under the present sys-
tem, and it would have been fairly steady and
reliable cash, instead of being speculative and
transitory. And the bulk of this reliable money
might have been spent in the repurchase
of "State securities whereby the Commonwealth
would have made a good beginning at the fulfil-
ment of the utterly-neglected mandate of last
April to take over the State debts. Also, it would
have made a beginning at the great work of get-
ting Australia out of pawn, and by putting an
ever-increasing mass of securities behind its note
issue it would have made that issue the safest
tiling of its kind on earth. That would have
been vigorous finance and a going of the whole
hog—not a hazardous and speculative hog,
but an animal based on sound evidence
and long experience. Instead, Australia is
blessed with a note issue which is like
nothing else on earth. There is no national bank
behind it. Its circulation depends on the ex-
tension of the glad hand by the private
banks, and if it doesn’t come back suddenly
for wholesale repayment it is the forbearance
of the private banks which is responsible.
And the Government which devised this paper
money stands for everything that is abhorrent to
the private banking interest, and is the one
Ministry which Australia has yet possessed to
which that interest is, to all intents and purposes,
unanimously hostile. So, having started this
risky business, the head of the Ministry doesn’t
propose to wait and see how it pans out; instead,
he goes away for a long holiday, and leaves a
flashy and ill-balanced legal colleague to watch
the result. If there is anything else which
Andrew Fisher could have done to make the
position tottery and uncertain the details thereof
are not known at this office.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Declaration of London.
The Declaration of London, which has occupied
so much space of late in the cablegrams and else-
where, has probably not yet struck that vague yet
oft-mentioned individual, the man in the street,
as anything that directly concerns him. The man
outside the public-house is also hazy about it; the
man who leans against a post hasn't got the hang
of it; and the bald-headed individual at the back
of the omnibus has mostly passed it by. Yet it
is a matter of deep interest to J. Bull and
of considerable interest to Australia. Some-
where about a year ago a conference, which
had been sitting' down hard in London to
devise a new code of international sea law, pro-
duced the result of its labors, which result was
the famous Declaration. It hasn’t yet been rati-
fied, and considering the growing frenzy of oppo-
sition in the British Isles and the violent hostility
of Australia, Maoriland, Canada, South Africa,
etc., it is possible that it never will be. Looked
at by and large it seems to be a surprising docu-
ment when it is considered from a British point
of view. Among other things, it is proposed to
establish an international court to decide, in
time of war, whether trading vessels takeD
The Austral Fatherland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is the Austral Fatherland, the land of our
desire,
At whose clear mime the blood can throb, the
pulses leap in fire ?
Lo, I have seen in dreams of dawn tall sons
whose love was strong,
Men, made as men, who would not brook a hint
of shame or wrong !
Whence came that proud, defiant mien, that head
erectly borne,
That ready laughter on the tongue, that kingly
scorn of scorn ?
Where is the Austral fatherland that such a brood
could bear,
The wide land flashing in the sun ’neath crystal
leagues of air?
Say, is it bounded on the north by Ohatswood’s
Tory heights,
Where tortured Mendelssohn is slain by fierce
suburban wights ?
Does Manly hold its eastern gate where nymphs
by beaches brown
Disport in happy foam the limbs released from
tubes of town?
Does Sandringham or Como mark its utmost
southern bound
Beyond whose rugged fringe of trees Australia is
not found ?
Or in the dim and lonely west does Parramatta
keep
The sunset verge of harvest lands Australian
hands may reap ?
No, surely ’tis a wider land ? What ? Shall your
Hobson’s Bay
Hem in the south, while round the north your
Murray’s waters stray ?
Eastward shall ways of green and gold have end
in Gippsland cool ?
Shall ridged potatoes hold the west that stops at
Warrnambool ?
Is this the land of song and dream mine eyes have
seen afar,
The continent of splendid hope wide-spread to
sun and star,
The fatherland of that tall race whose new flag
fl lunts the seas—
Shall such a nationhood be pent by such straight
walls as these ?
Somewhere I know the distance calls—wide fields
where men are few,
Long sweeps of mountain and of plain a-sparlde
in the dew ;
Room for a thousand, thousand homes, and cities
yet unborn,
When, quickened with the linking steel, the rich
lands laugh in corn;
Room for the man of larger aim, the heart of
kindlier beat,
Afar from that small doom that cramps the
thoughts of Crooked-street.
Our heritage is wide and fair, wind-sweet from
sea to sea,
A fatherland that calls its sons to wear their
manhood free !
What of its bounds? What walls are set to south
and east and west ?
The shining frontier of the dawn, the fires of sun-
set rest,
The shimmering Austral lights astream that mark
its utmost south,
The wide-flung northern hope that fronts the
Asian cannon’s mouth !
No narrower walls than these shall hold Austra-
lia’s larger race
The stronger man who looks the years full in their
splendid face.
The fatherland of that tall race whose new flag
flaunts the deep
Spreads vast as the unmargined dream that haunts
his richer sleep.
And ye who fain would bribe the sun, and buy the
rain and dew
To wither all the grander years to match your
parish view—
State spites ! State frights ! Small cursed greed !
Your hearts with malice torn
Shall hear Australia’s laughter ring and mark her
nobler scorn !
Your crooked railways, pawn-shop tricks, child
armies, ’fenceless coasts,
Your bleatings in the market place, your vain,
thought-empty boasts—
Shall these avail to stay the march of days with
wonder graud
When young Australia's soul awakes and knows
her fatherland 1
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


at sea are or are not lawful prizes. The
court is to be very international, seeing that
even such places as Siam, Nicaragua and
Paraguay will supply judges to it. On the
other hand, Australia, which owns more shipping
than a dozen such countries, is to have no repre-
sentative at all ; it won’t even supply the lady
who scrubs out the court. This is a cheerless out-
look for Australia. And there are other points.
Under the new arrangement, food supplies, even
if carried in neutral vessels, are liable to be seized
by a belligerent if they are on their way to a
place which “serves as a base for the armed
forces of the enemy,” and as the whole country
serves as a base for the country’s forces, this seems
to make all floating victuals liable to seizure. Now
Bull is the greatest importer of victuals upon earth,
so this clause is likely to hit him hard, and
his country being an island, all his imported
victuals come by sea, which fact is calculated to
hit him harder still. Every other European
country of any importance could, if it wanted to
import food in war time, have it consigned by
sea to an adjacent State, in which case it would
be free from capture on the waters, and then have
it brought in over a land frontier, but Bull’s
country couldn’t. It has no land frontier, so all its
seii-borne food would be liable to arrest, while its
neighbors would escape a great part of this
trouble. Bull has gradually dropped to this
complication, and is scratching his head in a pro-
found spirit. Then it used to be held that if a
belligerent captured a neutral vessel at sea under
the impression, or alleged impression, that it
was carrying contraband goods to the enemy,
it must not be sunk off-hand, but must be
carried into port, and its case considered in a law
court. The new proposition is that the prize
need not be carried into port if the job of taking
it there means danger to the vessel that effected
the capture, or is calculated to hamper its opera-
tions. In these circumstances the prize may be
sunk off-hand. Bull has wakened with a start,
and sat up in bed and realised that this item is
loaded. Britain has ports all over the world, and
would be bound to drag its prizes into them, while
other nations, not being so well provided with
ports, could legally sink their captured ships
wherever they found them, alleging in ex-
cuse that they had no safe places to take them
to. Again, if France and Germany were at war,
and Germany was out recklessly capturing and
sinking vessels suspected by its own officers of
carrying illegal goods to the enemy, it would cer-
tainly find more British ships to sink than ships
of any other nation. Of course, there would be
the father of a row in a legal sense over these
high-handed proceedings, and if the international
prize court was honest, there might be a fearful
bill to pay afterwards. But it is pointed out that
afterwards is a long while off, and then the Court
might not be honest, the casting vote of the
Siamese judge having been bought; and in
any case the lost trade might be lost for
good, no matter what damages were awarded
afterwards. In short, J. Bull reckons, on
■second thoughts, that his negotiators have made
a mess of things. If they have, it is a matter
which materially concerns Australia, for Bull
can’t make a mess of things without reducing his
fighting power, and that seriously affects the em-
pire at large. And apart from anything else, an
arrangement whereby the best part of the Howard
Smith and Union and A. U.S.N. fleets might be
sunk by Japanese cruisers under an erroneous im-
pression or pretence that they were carrying con-
traband goods to aid, say, Russia or Chili in a
war with Nippon; and a year or two afterwards
Siamese or Nicaraguan judges might sit with
others to hear the plea for damages, while no
Australian representative would be admitted
either then or any other time—well, that kind of
arrangement isn’t calculated to appeal to this
country very strongly. Australia feels as if it
Lad no great use for tiie Declaration of London.
Manning the Australian Navy.
Senator Pearce is in trouble again. He has got
over the worry of the Albury camp, and he is not
yet up against the training of the first 80,060
boys ; but the Admiralty is putting up the price
of the cruisers it is building for Australia, and it
lias apparently asked how the ships are going to
get crews. At any rate, he has told the daily
papers that he does not know where he is to get
the men. He says :
I find that we shall require 137 officers and 2224 men, or
a total complement of 2361. We have in our permanent
naval forces 240 officers and men. On October 1 the
number of Australians serving with the Australian
squadron was 716, and up to June 30, 1909, 79 men had
completed their term of five years’ service with the
squadron. Of those 79 men, 76 have taken their dis
charge to the shore, and three re-engaged for a further
term of five years.
Senator Pearce can see the writing on the wall,
but he cannot read it. It is pretty clear that,
when 76 out of 79 men who have shipped for five
years in the navy ref use to re-engage for another five
years, they are heartily sick of it. Out of the 716
now doing their five years, Senator Pearce may
possibly get 27 willing to continue to serve another
five ; but 27 men won’t go far. Then there is an-
other question iu reference to the 240 permanent
men of all ranks whom he says he has. What are
their ages? The public can’t forget the engineer-
lieutenant of 52 who died of heart disease while
on duty on one of the destroyers. The “Grand
Old Veterans” are very well in their proper
place. They may be able to give good advice,
though they are apt to be obstinate and hide-
bound, and much better out of the way when
fighting or other strenuous work is in question.
Hence the German Admiralty quite recently
ordered that no captain over 45 years old was to
command a German battleship. The retiring age
for even British naval captains is 55. But the
question of finding sailors is much more important
just now than geti.ng rid of worn-out or probably
obsolete officers. The Minister sees a chance of
getting some :
1 think if it were generally known that those who join
the present squadron will, on completion of the Common-
wealth unit, be transferred to the service of the Austra-
lian Government, it would stimulate recruiting for the
present squadron. It will be seen that we have a pretty
big task before us if we are going to supply an appre-
ciable number of the men required for the new fleet unit,
and we have to take some pretty active steps in the near
future towards training our own sailors.
As usual, it is “Put the matter off to an uncertain
future.” It seems only the other day that Sena-
tor Pearce rushed through a Naval Defence Act,
providing that Australian warships were to be
manned by voluntarily-enlisted men; and the
Tory crowd cheered him to the echo, as might
have been expected. He must have known then
how big was the task before him. He was, how-
ever, going to establish “Training Schools” to
turn out able seamen, who, he imagined, would
stay contentedly in the “fleet unit” till they were
grey-headed. He finds now that they will not.
Yet he cannot make up his mind to revert to the
rational idea of short service and compulsion.
Would it really break his heart to cut himself
loose from what he thinks is an old British tra-
dition ?
The Keformation of Joseph Ward.
Even the Devil may be liable to repent some
day, and Premier Joseph Ward, of Maoriland,
intends to leave off borrowing by-and-bye. He
hasn’t done it yet—in fact, he has just raised
another £5,000,000 loan, and is whooping things
up like a hero of the deepest dye. Nor has he
actually fixed a date for his reformation, no
matter how far ahead that date may be. But
when Maoriland’s public works policy is finished
—really finished —whenever that may happen,
then Joseph is going to rest on his laurels and
seek the bowers of Cohen no more. For months
past he has been making remarks about the final
abandonment of the old familiar loan devices,
but lately he went into details after this fashion :
Until this country had finished its railways, until
it had made some provision for the acquirement of the
lands necessary' for the people, and until it had reached a
point where one could say the public works policy was
about completed, it would be necessary to obtain the
requisite moneys to carry on public works. . . The
Government knew the position.it recognised its responsi-
bilities, and it was more anxious than many of its critics
to curtail the total amount required for public expendi-
ture ; but at the same time it recognised to the fullest
extent that without borrowing money it could not carry on
a vigorous settlement of the people on the land, or give to
those who went into the interior the necessary public works
already possessed by many of those who lived in settled
parts. The Government would commit an act of retro-
gression if it did not recognise that every pound of money
borrowed had a magnificent asset behind it, and, that
being so, it was bound to show manly courage and un-
flinching determination to borrow what was, within
reason, requisite in the general interests of the community.
So the policy for the present is an “ unflinching
determination ” to float more loans. But still
there is the reformation —the glorious reformation
—in the future. When Maoriland is quite
finished and completed, and the last nail is driven
into the last board of the last public work, and
there is nothing more leit to be done for ever
and ever, amen, then Ward will fly the
kite no more, and possibly even start paying
off the old bills. But when that will be even
Ward doesn’t pretend to know. Egypt, Greece,
Italy, Assyria and a few other places, including
Carthage and some sections of Sahara, started
their public works policy many centuries ago—
even as much as 40 centuries ago—and, in some
cases, it is in quite a crude state even yet. England
doubtless reckoned that it had got its public works
finished when it got its road and harbor system
into fair condition and the New River was sup-
plying water to London. But almost endless
demands arose for more water supplies, and
drainage was invented, also septic tanks,
also many other things. All the harbors
of any importance had to be made all
over again, owing to the increase in the size
of ships, and they are still being made over again.
Also, some restless individual revived the idea of
canals, and just when England was sitting down
with a finished sort of feeling and quite con-
tented with its ancient dirt highways it had to
start afresh. It did a heap of canal work, and
everything in the garden was lovely until an un-
settled variety of cuss devised railways and tele-
graphs and steamships, to say nothing of tele-
phones. These seemed the last word for a little
while; the railway is really a thing of yesterday,
but the thing that stays through 50 or 60 years of
our own time looks immortal compared with the
thing that stayed 400 years in some previous period.
There were troubles certainly, for the old locomo-
tives and rolling stock were always beingscrapped
before they were half worn out, in order to make
way for new inventions; and old railways were
torn up to cut out awkward grades and curves ;
and steel telegraph wires gave place to copper;
and a new telegraph or telephone instrument was
hardly born before it became obsolete ; and one
style of marine engine after another became old
iron while it was still new ; and wood gave place
to iron, and iron to steel—first one kind of steel
and then another ; and the screw superseded the
paddle, and the turbine came after the
screw, and so on. Even the blessed old roads
were all re-made when Macadam came to pass,
and he was hardly dead before somebody-wbo-
wouldn’t-keep-scill advocated asphalt. Still there
was an idea in England for a while that the
general type of things was pretty well fixed—till
the motor-car struck Bull’s country and threat-
ened to transfer the traffic back to the roads. It
drove the railways to new expense; and the
motor tramcar without rails arose; and the
airship; and then the mono-rail attacked
the old railways ; and the first wireless telegraph
system started to knock Sheol and spots out of the
ancient posts and wires, and it had scarcely
arrived when a new and improved system fell on
top of it. These things cause a modern country
to lead the strenuous life. Still, when the altera-
tions are all quite finished, and the last invention
has been invented, and the last upheaval has
heaved, and the last motor has moted, and the
last new buzzer lias buzzed, and things are fixed
at last, and every public work has become per-
manent and immutable and is never to be torn
up or scrapped any more —when that glad time
comes Maoriland’s public works policy will be
finished and Joseph Ward will cease from bor-
rowing. So there is still hope. Ward hasn’t
taken up his residence in Cohen’s premises for
ever. He is only lodging there temporarily for a
billion ages or so.
Some Further Points in Favor of a Crimiual
Appeal Court.
London Evening News reported what it described
as “a remarkable incident” last month. Two
men were tried, convicted and sentenced at
Chelmsford Sessions (England) for stealing a till.
Even as they were being led away to start hard
labor, one Owen Gomme arose in the body of the
Court and confessed that he was the thief. In-
vestigation showed him to be no liar, and the
conviction of the innocent men was quashed by
the British Court of Criminal Appeal. Under
Australian procedure, since here we are still in the
barbarous position of having no Criminal Appeal
Court, these men would, on the facts, have
had no redress. Their only hope of escaping
penal servitude for an offence of which they were
guiltless, would have depended on the Judge who
presided over their trial making some mistake in
Law during the proceedings. (And a Judge errs
so rarely in law in a forthright affair like a
criminal trial that the chances of freedom on that
score are of the slightest.) Even assuming the
men had succeeded in an appeal, on a legal point,
they could only have looked to achieve what is
known as a Royal Pardon; they would still have
remained convicted felons for all time. The
papers published statistics the other day showing
that a huge percentage of those who appear
before Australian Criminal Courts are acquitted.
The fact was bemoaned on the grounds that many
of them had undoubtedly merited gaol, and were
loose for no other reason than that juries were
lax. Judges, more especially those of JNS.W.,
are eternally railing at juries for erring on the
side of mercy in criminal cases. And the cabbage-
tree or chain-gang type of citizen is for
ever deploring the difficulty that Crown Pro-
secutors find in getting convictions. One powerful
reason for the modern juror’s chariness to pro-
nounce the word that will send a fellow-citizen
to gaol, is the recognition that that word
is to all intents and purposes the last that
can ever be said on the question. The aver-
age modern juryman, unless he is as sure
of an accused person’s guilt as if he had per-
sonally observed him committing the deed, re-
minds himself of the legal axiom that it is better
for 99 guilty to go free than that one innocent
man should suffer, and gives the prisoner the
benefit of the faintest shadow of doubt that may
be drifting around the court. It is certain that
jurors would act otherwise in many instances if
they knew that an appeal lay from their findings
to experienced jurists and men of the world. For
three years a Criminal Appeal Court has been in
existence in the United Kingdom. Convicted per-
sons may go to it not only on points of law but on
points of fact. At its inception it was strenuously
opposed by the English Conservative press, on the
identical pleas with which the Conservative press
of Australia still opposes the inauguration of
anything of the sort in this country. Within 18
months the very journals which had heaped scorn
on the idea were loudest in its praise. To-day,
there is no Briton of normal intelligence who
would so much as consider the question of its abo-
lition. It is possible that the Australian Tory,
who is also, incidentally, the most avid for blood
and gaol where the criminal classes are con-
cerned, would not battle quite so hard against the
institution of a local Court of Criminal Appeal if
he gave the matter careful thought. The ulti-
mate effect would probably be considerably more
gaolings than at present. The guilty wouldn’t
escape nearly so often as they do under qur exist-
ing system ; on the other hand, the possibility of
innocent people having their careers utterly
blasted would be vastly reduced.
The “Age” Makes a Surprising Discovery.
The Agk a few issues ago rose up suddenly, and,
with a scared look in its eye, asked its Victorian
readers if they were aware that one out of every
six male wage-earners in the State was now a
civil servant. It used to be one in seven ; but
latterly the proportion has increased, and the
alarmed Age wants to know what is to be done in
the matter. Well, nothing is to be done in the
matter. Nor is there any need for alarm, either.
Far more than half of the Victorian civil servants
are employed on the railways; and even the Age
will, in its calm moments, admit that these men
are giving as good value for their wages as, say,
the employees of the Melbourne Tramway Co.
In a few years the tramways will pass into the
hands of either the municipalities or the Govern-
ment ; and then those employees will also become
civil servants. But the public, instead of being
thereby burdened, will be so much the better off.
At Newport three shifts of men are working day
and night making engines and trucks for the rail-
ways ; and the engines and trucks are better value
than when they were turned out by Fat’s friend,
Private Enterprise. At the State coal mine at
Powlett, there are some hundreds of new civil ser-
vants ; and they are also likely not only to earn
their wages, but to yield some profit to their em-
ployers, the people. Much wild and frantic non-
sense is continually being written about the
“abnormal growth of the civil service,” and occa-
sionally it is swallowed even by fair-minded
people who don’t stop to think what the increase
consists of.
Nothing New Under the Sun.
Broken Hill, where the mining population is
very largely of the imported or Cousin Jack
variety, has always been rather unlike other Aus-
tralian Labor centres. It is wilder and woollier.
In Broken Hill the local miners have partly
captured the municipal council (in other words,
the council is half Labor and half Tory),
and, apparently, in a wild and woolly way,
that body has been doing things. At first,
when it read the report, The Bulletin almost;
fancied that the things were original. Then
old memories began to stir like snakes wak-
ing at the back of a cave, and this paper began to
feel that in some previous period it had come
across the story before. For instance, consider
the strange familiarity of these words, written by
Examiner Notting:—
I found Che books and accounts scandalously behind,
and the December, 1909, accounts not entered, and no
balance attempted for that period. Some idea of the
arrears of postings, etc., can tie gathered from the fact
that the whole clerical staff have been working double
shifts over eight days to bring the books to a balancing
point for tfie half-year ending December, 1909. There
are excessively heavy outstandings of general, sanitary,
and lighting rates, and of abattoirs, running into over
£17,000.
This is appalling, and the gravest censure on the
management that one can conceive. One of the most
serious amounts is for slaughtering fees at the municipal
abattoirs. Some large sums are 11 months overdue. The
wages dockets do not show the date when paid. The
wages vouchers are incomplete. Proper lists of tools
and inventories and stock books are not kept. Neither
tools nor horses (42) are branded. The Toum Hall let-
tings, etc., which run back to the 1908 register, are not
entered up. Two clerks have been seven days trying to
balance matters. Over £550 is thus due up to June 30,
1910. No effort has been made to collect it. It appears
to me there has been absolutely no direct management.
A total disregard of responsibility is apparent, with the
result that revenue collections, accounts and books have
drifted into a state bordering on chaos.
Cheques are drawn regardless of the banking account,
and allowed, after the signatures are affixed, to remain
for months in the office. No one appears to know or
understand why these are not promptly sent out when
signed. Every book and account taken up was in
art-ear , or unbalanced, with the exception of the electric
light books.
I found that people connected with the council
have not paid up their rates. The council have under
control an. art gallery and some 100 paintings. The care-
taker has no list of the pictures, nor have the council full
details. The abattoirs’ account is unsecured.
Credit is given everybody. No effort is made to collect,
©ne firm at the end of June owed £268. The sanitary'
account is in a deplorable condition.
The council guaranteed only portion of the staff. Some
of these do not handle cash ; others that do are omitted.
There is no inventory of tools out with gangers, etc. No
list of tools and stores is kept at the power-lrouse, abat-
toirs and other branches. *;
I found 34 signed cheques on hand for goods, drawn on
various funds, one being dated October 31,1909. ‘ Neglect
and indifference prove conclusively an utter want of ordi-
nary management.
The following books have not been kept, etc.
Then the lost recollection came back. It was the
story all over again of some two dozen building
societies, and sundry bogus banks that burst in
the ’Bo’s and early ’9o’s. One or other of these
institutions has been doing its second time on
earth. The public has a short memory, yet who
can quite forget even now that wonderful
“bank” of which one director was a Freetrade
Minister and another a sort of Domain dosser—
the affa.r that seemed to keep its accounts on the
backs of old envelopes in a boot-trunk, and which
ascribed its final downfall to the machinations of
Home. It not only drew cheques “ regardless of
the banking account ” ; it also drew them regard-
less of grammar, syntax, piosody and blots. And
when v\e read that “credit is given everybody,”
how it recalls that otherinstitution which gavesome
£4,000,000 of credit to plausible and belltoppered
deadbeats, and is struggling with the defunct
animal even unto this day, though the animal
died 18 years ago ! There is nothing new under
the sun.
4.
Dirt Cheap.
Somebody writing in Sydney Daily Telegraph
on the “Genesis of a Signalman,'’ discusses
various means of improving the memory, and
goes so far as to insinuate that some effort should
he made to rear a race of memorists for this im-
portant railway job. Now, in a proper system of
signalling memory has noplace; and all the im-
provements that can be wrought in human memory
will not give one iota of the safety that can be in-
sured by the Winter-Preeck interlocking system.
The Winter-Prekce system is not an overwhelm-
ingly costly one, and yet it would have saved
Victoria a fearful bill had it been installed the
last few years. This melancholy effort of the
D.T. to whitewash sundry railway authorities by
adumbrating on human fallibility, is deplorable.
It would do much more good by persistently and
emphatically pointing out that once a manage-
ment begins to rely on the memory of signalmen
it is courting disaster. It is saving money by
taking risks. And what risks ! In a service
where there are, perhaps, 200 or so signalmen
constantly on duty; each one controlling from a
dozen to 50 levers, it is almost a certainty
that the memory of at least one will fail,
sooner or later. Can any manager reasonably
expect to get through without at least one
man forgetting one lever at least once in his
lifetime? Yet that is what relying on memory
means. Apropos of which, the Ma State has
hitherto prided itself on its immunity from'
serious railway smashes ; and during the excite-
ment over the Richmond smash, its Railway De-
partment lay low, and managed to escape being
asked any searching questions about its signalling
system, or rather, variety of systems. On the
South Coast line the electric staff is in use, but on
the Mountain Section of the Great Western sys-
tem, and probably elsewhere, N.S.W. has the same
dangerous and inefficient system as that under
which Victoria achieved its vast butcher-bill.
There is no automatic connection between the
signalling instruments inside the office and the
semaphores and points on the line. The fact that
everything has been done right on the block-
signalling instruments does not guarantee that the
trains will run in their proper order. They will
only do so, in fact, if the signalman who has
taken the signal-messages remembers to place
his semaphores and points in accordance with the
signal-message received. His memory is the con-
necting link between the instruments and the
semaphores and points. And, looked fairly into,
it is not a sufficiently strong link on which to
hang the lives of trainloads of passengers. But
it is a dirt cheap system—till something happens,
and then it is about 10 times more expensive than
the most costly lock and block system.
+
The other day, Griffith, N.S.W. Minister for
Works, announced his intention of introducing
day-labor at Umberumberka. Whereupon the
S. M. Herald (24/l/’ll) fired these dreary vati-
cinations at him :
(1) Labor is running its neck into a noose.
(2) By its return to day-labor it is likely to disgust the
public at large with the parti’ and all its works.
(3) The only result will be to demonstrate the ineffici-
ency of Socialism.
(4) Labor will be the worst sufferer.
(5) If it will not listen to reason it must be taught by
reaction.
(6) The reversion to day-labor will swing the pendulum
right against Labor the next time that it has to face the
country.
If anti-Labor really believes these things, and
assuming they aren’t purely bogus Horrors of a
similar breed to George Reid’s Socialistic Tiger,
the Busted Homes and Marriage Tie Yarn, the
menace of Fleeing Capital and so forth, the
tactics of “ Liberalism ” are obvious. The suicidal
Griffith should be encouraged by the Opposition
to proceed with his day-labor projects. Each time
he mentions the subject, all anti-Laborites present
should rise and accord him three hearty cheers.
In every way he should be lured on to bring
destruction on his party. Then when Labor has
run its neck into a noose, and the inefficiency
of Socialism has been demonstrated, and Labor
is suffering agonies, and the pendulum has
swung right against it, the “Liberal”, party
will be in a position to yield up its Pitt-street
cellar and dispense with the services of Arch-
dall Parkhill, Esq. For the N.S.W. Labor
party will be a corpse, and a dead body doesn’t
require even a Liberal and Deform Ass. to keep)
it inert and harmless. On the other hand, the
Herald’s talk about the evils that must follow in
the train of Day Labor may be all guff. The
person with the vote is hereby urged to study the
position and take his choice.
♦ ——
A FEW days ago, the Argus sent a young man round
Melbourne to ask “ well-known and representative
business men” what they thought of trade pros-
pects for the year. Naturally the young man,
being an Argus young man, went first to Flinders-
lape, the home of the corpulent importer of rags.
There he struck the president of the Fluff Associ-
ation himself; and that gentleman promptly
weighed in with some typical observations: —
During the past few years the business of the softgoods
warehousemen and importers has been very satisfactory.
Which is equivalent to confirming this paper’s
assertion that the Commonwealth’s Protective
system is ceasing to be effective. The Fluff presi-
dent was very out-spoken on the matter :
The importing side of the business is very much more
satisfactory than the manufacturing, and has an element
of steadiness in it that the other lacks.
This is the quaint, one-eyed, anti-Australian im-
porter all over. The fluff and the fag-ends of
the imported calico seem to get into his soul,
with the result that he would ten times sooner
drag a dozen bales of shoddy ashore at Port Mel-
bourne than see a lorry arrive with a load of good,
Australian-made material. There has been no
better argument advanced in favor of increased
Protection for many a day than the admission of
Fluff that business—the importing businesses
“ very satisfactory.”
.+
The vigorous remarks of “ A JuDD-ite ” :
Central Queensland is boiling with fury and indigna-
tion over a widely-published letter written by “ the
Mother Superior of the Girls’ Friendly Society,” from the
“Anglican Rescue Home, Rockhampton.” This letter,
read at an immigration conference held in London, ran
this way :—“ I regret to say that there are stations in
the bush where no girl’s virtue is safe. One I know of
where a wife heiself is no better than a decoy for her
husband and sons. This work brings facts befoie us that
one shudders to have to own as facts. After 20 years’
rescue work in Victoria and Queensland, I can, without
exaggeration, say that Queensland, and especially Central
Queensland, are far mote glaringly and audaciously im-
moral than the southern States. I have heard of more
horrors in five years here than in 15 years’ working in the
Melbourne slums and as a gaol visitor for the Church of
Englcnd.”
When the ri port of the conference was sent < fficially
to Australia, and the fat was thus thrown in the fire, the
best explanation the Mother Superior could give was tha»


If Australia is to be saved from an invasion,
as per a recent Lone Hand article, by the right
brand of aeroplane, inventors had better rush the
right brand of inspiration, to wit, D.C.L. There
is every reasonable hope for the safety and pros-
perity of the country while its best thought is
inspired to its best effort by D.C.L., the Whisky
of the Wise.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ZENOBIA
Perftxmes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lilyof the
Valley
Natural.
Ni^ht*
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes charm
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney
the letter had not been intended for publication—which
means that it wasn’t intended to be used in such a way that
it could be refuted. Then, evidently reckoning that that
wouldn’t do, the clerical head of the Rockhampton mis-
sion proceeded to pour oil on the flames in this fashion :
“To jret girls sent into Central Queensland was the very
object with which the letter was written. The proviso,
however, was strongly insisted upon that any girls sent
should be placed out strictly under the advice of the
clergy, and that the Anglican Sisterhood in Rockhamp-
ton would be pleased to take charge of such immigrants
until they were satisfactorily settled in situations. These
cautions were considered necessary on account of the
extent of the moral laxity existing in Central Queens-
land, and it is in this connection that the quoted extract
was written.”
Instead of withdrawing the calumny, the charge is
here repeated ; and it is up to the Queensland Govern-
ment to hold an inquiry, so that the lady and gentleman
concerned may have the chance to prove their words —or
take the consequences.
The present writer is a clergyman. For years he has
been living in North and Central Queensland, and he has
an intimate knowledge of town and station life in these
districts ; and he unhesitatingly declares that North and
Central Queensland’s towns and stations are certainly as
moral as any towns or districts in Australia. And,
further, in these districts he has met more genuine
charity, more sterling self-sacrifices, more humility, and
more heroism than in any other part of Australia, and he
has been a resident of Victoria and New South Wales for
years. In face of crime statistics and the report of men
who know, to vilify a countr.y as “actually worse than
the slums of Melbourne,” is the extreme of uncharitable-
ness and contumacious folly. And “ I have heard of
more horrors ” is the foundation of the whole charge—
horrors which may be figments of the imagination, or
drowsy speculations of some religious virtuoso with a
mind which sees immorality in everyone and everything.
The humor of the situation lies in the fact that
the clergyman who writes “knowingly” in the
business is not vet six months out from England ; and
the lady who made the charge in the first instance has
probably never put foot away from the coast.
Thus, the finest State in the Commonwealth is cruelly
slandered by those whose mission is to inculcate truth,
charity and all those beautiful virtues which are so sub-
limely easy to preach but so singularly difficult to
practice, even by the specially-graced, high-minded
lavorites of Heaven.
+
Prime Minister Fisher spoke to a Melbourne
audience last Monday, and assured it that the
Government was not going to rest on its laurels,
but that “ it is proposed to attempt further useful
work.” One would devoutly hope that something
of the sort is “ proposed.” Apart from the gradu-
ated land tax, the principal achievements so far
have been the.enrolment of an army of kids, the
establishment of a Federal note issue on a very
tottery basis, and the taking over, on paper, of
the Northern Territory. The building of the
transcontinental railways, the selection of the
route for the Port Darwin line, the choice of a
Federal railway gauge, the devising of some plan
to make a uniform railway gauge for all Australia,
the actual taking over of the Territory’s debt, the
taking over of the other debts, the construction of
the navy (which has hardly commenced yet), the
establishment of an army which isn’t all kids, the
settlement of the Territory with a white popula-
tion, the putting of the uncertain Federal note
issue on a sound footing—these and a few dozen
other matters are all waiting. And if a Govern-
ment with such huge responsibilities ahead of it
doesn’t “ propose to attempt further useful work,”
what on earth does it propose to do ?
It is announced, quite casually, that the Australian
Government proposes to build the line to Wes-
tralia on the 3|ft. gauge, which is a mighty poor
affair for long distance traffic that is in a hurry.
If this is done, then the long run from Perth to
Brisbane will be made, first on line, then on a
s£ft. line, then on a 4ft. BJin. line, and then finally
on another 3£ft. line. And if the Government
builds on any other gauge there will be the same
trouble. That sets up the joyous fact that in war
time it won’t be possible to send troops from north-
east to south-west or vice versa unless there are
four separate supplies of rolling stock, and
they are all sufficiently abundant, and all
concentrated in the right place, and even
then the delay in shifting men, horses, stores,
artillery and ammunition from one set of
vehicles to another will add at least a week to the
duration of the journey. It will be worse—looo
times worse—than the trouble which hampered
the Russians in the Jap war ; their single line was
a horror, but there was at least no break of gauge
between the German border and China. The Vic-
torian railway service, for instance, which can’t
find trucks to"carry half the output of the Powlett
coal mine, and which has to shut down on excur-
sion traffic for want of carriages, will set the pace
for the whole movement, unless by that time there
is something even worse than the Victorian ser-
vice. Consequently, the position will be that of a
general with four cannon of four different calibres,
and three of them out of action because the
ammunition is exhausted, while the fourth, pos-
sibly, has more ammunition than it can use.
The idea is so insane, so antiquated and so
suicidal that it seems impossible that any
Government in its right senses would propose it
unless it had first made an exhaustive examina-
tion of the mono-rail—the system which cheaply
settles all break of gauge difficulties—and found
it a gigantic fraud and failure. Yet it couldn’t
have made careful tests of the mono-rail and
blown out its huge pretensions without the ex-
posure of the fraud filling the papers with execra-
tion. Apparently the Federal authority has never
looked at the mono-rail—never even heard of it.
♦
Said the chairman of the Sydney Gas Co. at the
half-yearly meeting, apropos the strike :
What weighed with the Board all through was that
they were something more than mere shareholders or
directors of an ordinary company. Gas is now so much
usedfpanamifactuTe'and for domestic purposes as to be
almost as essential as air and water. The directors re-
cognised that their first duty was to their close upon
100,000 customers, who are dependent upon an uninter-
rupted use of gas for their every-day work, and to the
public generally.
It is satisfactory to know that the Board of this
co. realises that, the gas-supply business can no
longer be satisfactorily run by “ an ordinary com-
pany.” Equally satisfactory is it to have this
most experienced chairman’s confession that, in
handling this business, the management’s first
duty is to its “ close-upon 100,000 customers and
the public.” The unfortunate thing is that those
100,000 customers and the public, to whom gas is
“ almost as essential as air and water,” have no say
at all in the choice of the men who owe them a
first duty. The present question is not whether
this present directorate recognises that duty or
not. Apparently it does. But clearly another
Board may arise—just an ordinary Board—which
will insist on believing that its first duty is to the
shareholders who elect it. By a lucky acci-
dent, it seems, the Board at present isn’t
ordinary; and the only inference from the
chairman’s frank confession is that if it was
ordinary it would be a very serious thing for the
public. What, then, the present Board has to do
is this—it must be able to guarantee that future
Boards will also not be “ ordinary.” If it can’t
do that, then it might just as well gracefully
throw up the sponge, and admit that the control
of something which is “ almost as essential as air
and water ” cannot safely be left in the hands of
a private co.
The horrified notice which has been given to the
recent disgraceful Sunday picnics of Melbourne
publicans and sinners merely illustrates the fool-
ishness of professional Wowser ism and its promis-
cuous screamings. Properly conducted hotels and
decently conducted barmaids were represented
hardly at all in the orgies on those bay steamers.
On the other hand, every low-down pub in
Melbourne was freely represented; and no
thinking person, taking an unbiassed view
of the picnickers, could question the neces-
sity of wiping out the pubs which produce
such results. For the hoodlums and Maudies who
make the scandal at grog-sellers’ demonstrations
are almost entirely created by low-down pubs ;
and those places couldn’t be if the State ran the
liquor trade in the interests of public health,
public morality and public revenue. Yet the
Wowser, instead of devoting himself to the
specific task of bringing about that reform—which
would abolish such scandals as those just reported
—is horrified at the mere idea of State control,
and flies off to a vague whoop against the cursed
derrink.
The ancient story of the fierce conflagra-
tion which raged unchecked owing to the fire
brigades being too busy at a fire-extinguishing
demonstration to attend to it, was paralleled by a
painful surf tragedy on Ooogee Beach, Sydney, on
January 28. Four lives were lost that might have
been saved had not the local Surf Club been away
at Manly explaining the proper way to rescue
drowning bathers. An added irony was the
fact that a big land sale was held at Maroubra,
over Coogee hill, that afternoon ; and while the
auctioneer was getting ready to dilate on the
pleasures of surfing, the police were busy counting
up its victims.
A Sydney photographic firm was guilty of
the following the other day :
In commemoration of the ascent of His Gracious
Majesty King George V. to the throne of Great Britain
and Her Possessions, it has been decided to compile a
large MEDALLION GROUP of the most prominent
OF THE PEACE of N.S.W., gentlemen who
were holders of that honorable position when His Majesty
was proclaimed King.
A Superb Portrait of the King will occupy the centre
of the picture, around which will be grouped the por-
traits of the gentlemen whose co-operation it has been de-
cided to invite. You will readily understand that this
number must be limited. We have, there-
fore, been compelled to adopt careful discrimination in
the selection of the gentlemen who are being invited to
forward their portraits to be included in the picture.
The grouped portraits will make a picture which ....
must beyond the shadow of a doubt become heirlooms.
Each Jay P. who sends the firm his portrait (plus
one guinea) will get a picture of the massed Jays
of N.S.W. There is talk, if this scheme booms,
of offering the world a photo group of all those
who have not slept in the Domain, to be followed
by an epic picture of such N.S.W. residents as
are not yet dead. There is nothing the really dis-
tinguished citizen more appreciates than to have
his prominence put on record, so to speak.
“ 10-2-4 ” : An Anniversary Day unplea-
santness, reported by the Sydney dailies, upset
many preconceived notions. A dentist was on a
train with his fiancee. In a compartment adjacent
sat a fireman. The fireman gazed on the dentist’s
companion, and, finding her fair, directed at her
the subjugatory smile or face-spasm which may
be observed any day crossing any bar between
raffish alcoholist and gilt-haired beer-puller. For
years and years I have classed dentists with
vergers, curates, elderly floor-walkers, and assist-
ants in those shoplets which deal in Scripture
works, conceiving them as patient folk, pliant of
spine and case-hardened to insult. The fireman,
contrariwise, I have looked upon as a mus-
cular, fearless and rather dashing character, a
sort of Village Blacksmith, without the latter’s
Wowser-like habits. What did the Water Police
Court proceedings reveal? The fireman didn’t
boldly claim acquaintance with the dentist’s girl,
push the tooth-repairer aside, and appropriate her
for himself. Far from it. When the tram stopped
he essayed to slink aboard a Manly steamboat,
content, seemingly, with the barren joy of one
lonely ogle. The dentist, instead of passing
humbly on, pursued the fleeing fireman, addressed
words of defiance to him, and knocked out three
of his natural teeth and two false ones. In court
the dentist bore himself as debonnairly as one of
those old French musqueteers, who grabbed and
kissed the passing wench as a matter of course,
and gaily plucked the Law’s whiskers if it
attempted to remonstrate. So piqued was
Smitners, S.M., at the fang-smith’s blithe sallies
that he passed him the limit penalty. The fire-
man cut as paltry a figure, from the romanticist’s
viewpoint, in court as he did on Circular Quay.
What wonder that the Girl turned up and clove to
her splendid law-breaker like any limpet !
A story from the new “Life of Douglas
Jerrold,” about the old lady after whom Adelaide
is named and her uncommonly-decent behavior
towards the old gentleman after whom its prin-
cipal street is christened :
The Duke of Clarence, in the lifetime of Mrs. Jordan,
was frequently behind the scenes in Drury Lane Theatre.
Indeed, it is said that the Royal autograph is extant in
the Saturday treasury book for Mrs. Jordan’s salary.
Thus, in after times, a few of the old Drury actors always
met with a cordial reception, and none more so than
Dowton. Upon a certain “ benefit ” occasion the actor
waited upon the sailor Duke, and was received with the
old kindness and simplicity. In the course of the inter-
view, the Duke observed the actor look significantly at a
portrait over the chimney—the portrait of Mrs. Jordan.
“Yes, Dowton,” said the Duke, “she was an excellent
woman ; and, by the way, I’ll tell you a little story about
that picture. It always hung there ; but some time
before I was married to the Duchess I caused it to be re-
moved. Well, shortly after I brought the Duchess home,
I found one morning the picture in its old place. ‘ This,’
said the Duchess, ‘ was done at my desire. I discovered
that the picture had long bung there ; it was the picture
of the mother of your children, and it was not fit it
should be displaced. You must gratify me, and let it
remain. ”
The Duke of Clarence was afterwards William IV.
Mrs. Jordan was his wife, properly married, but
not counting as such under British law. The
Duchess was Queen Adelaide, whom he married
in a hasty, unsuccessful attempt to get a lawful
heir when he found he might have to come to the
throne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs.'
Criterion “Torn Jones.”
Palace “Seven Days.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Clontarf Maori Village.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Luck of Roaring Canip.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Gay Grisette.”
King’s “My Mate.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Open Air, St. Kilda .. The Follies.
♦
That swift animal, “The Whip,” is now
running in his seventh week at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney). It is a long time for any horse to run ;
hut the beast is still full of oats and energy. The
Chamber of Horrors at the Waxworks is the same
Horror as of old—that is to say, it isn’t nearly so
Horrible as it might be. One of the features of
the real Chamber used to be a collection of pic-
tures showing carefully selected modes of execu-
tion. A notable specimen was the picture of the
naked man who was being executed by brick-
layers. They were building round him an edi-
fice which, when the top was put on, would
make him a permanent obelisk by the wayside,
and he was expected to die within it of hunger,
thirst, suffocation, profound gloom and lonesome-
ness. The bricks were nearly up to his shoulders,
and he was beaming over the top brick at the
minions of the law. This work of art seems to
have been somehow omitted from the scene in
“ The Whip.”
** * *
“ Our Miss Gibbs ” is doing her nineteenth
week at Sydney Royal, and professes that the
end of her career is not yet in sight. Even at
this late date the galleryites still gather outside
the door before the sun has sloped steeply to his
stable in the west, and the tail of early appli-
cants is long and very obstructive.
** * *
“ Tom Jones ” is only starting on his run
at Sydney Criterion ; and in these days of pro-
longed visits it would be hard to prophesy just
how long it will be before he takes the road again.
Still, the managerial advt. keeps on remarking
“ for a short season only ” ; so the lover of light,
sparkling music had better interview the man with
the box plan right away, and put the studs in the
boiled garment in readiness. One visit to T.
Jones will not suffice for the average theatre-
goer; Edward German’s music is the sort that
creates a thirst for more, and the man who samples
it once will want to sample it again. The wise
music-bibber, will acquire the craving early and
allow himself time to satisfy it.
"TOM JONES,” AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
William Cromwell as
Partridge.
Tom Walls as
Gregory.
Hugh Ward and his company start doing
their "Seven Days” on Saturday evening. From
earlier announcements it seemed as if, for their
sins, Ward had sentenced himself and his lot to
Seven Days’ hard. According to later hints,
it is going to he Seven Days’ fast. Felix
Tanner certainly did 40 days fast or thereabouts,
but Ward will probably do it faster. He
will certainly need to if he wants to
catch up to "The Girl from Rector’s,” who
drops off her plate of lobster and goes finally out
of business at the Palace on Friday night.
According to present plans, the new show will be
the last in which Hugh J. will play in Sydney.
After this and a walk-round other cities, he will
become "Mr. H. .T. Ward, of the well-known
theatrical house of J. C. Williamson, Ltd.”
* * *
Wild, Willie and West, a team of comedy
acrobats who dress for stage purposes as navvies,
supply the best turn of the week at Sydney
Tivoli. ' They hardly speak,at all; but in front of
a backcloth and scenery representing an uncom-
pleted building, they engage in some smart
tumbling as a preliminary to that most popular
form of entertainment—assault and battery. The
irresponsible partner starts an all-in fight between
the two other members ; then when they are both
too busy to notice what he is doing, assaults both
of them in turn with fists, feet, giant mallets,
pickaxes, bricks and anything else that
comes handy. The variety of his impartial
attack brightens an otherwise crude and un-
original contest. As a humorous referee, he
would be of immense value to any boxing concern
which was suffering in the treasury from a pro-
longed scarcity of interesting contests. Ethel
Loftus, a brisk London comedienne, who keeps
some humor in her make-up box and very sensibly
cuts her songs short, is the other programme
novelty. Lorna and Toots Pounds do some
creditable imitations of well-known mimes ; and
Baby Watson, with a rather dull song, makes a
As a refreshing and blood-cleansing drink
for the hot weather, take “Montserrat” Lime
Juice; but be sure it’s the genuine “Mont-
serrat.”*
Boonara, Queensland’s great agricultural pro-
position, which embraces 31,344 acres, subdivided into
172 farms containing from 32 to 423 acres, will be sold by
auction at the Boonara Hotel, on March 7 and 8. Messrs.
Isles, Love & Co. (Brisbane), G. W. Martin (Melb.), E. C.
V. Broughton (Sydney), will forward illustrated plans on
application*
welcome reappearance. The other notable second-
part people Rose, Miss Yetta of the
Wire, the Blessings and Frank Harwood. This
evening (Thursday) ends the season of the Six
American Dancers.
** * *
Hugh Ward stages a mammoth variety
show to-morrow (Friday)nightatSydney Stadium,
for the benefit of Harold Baker and James
darken, surfbathers and heroes. Some Sydney
citizens subscribed £5OOO, the other day, for C. G.
Wade in recognition of the fact that he had fought
hard, though unavailingly, to save his Minis-
terial life. Baker has done even better than that.
He has, in the last few years, at infinite peril to
himself, dragged over 100 Australian citizens from
certain death, and never achieved a farthing for
his pains. And Clarken’s record as a life-
saver is also good. Till last Sunday, neither
of them enjoyed anything like the public
acclamation that was heaped on C. G. Wade
for omitting to go down the Mount Kembla
mine. To-morrow’s show affords the public an
opportunity of righting that anomaly. Dick
Arnst (an aspirant for the world’s heavyweight
title), Billy Papke, Dave Smith and “Cyclone”
Thompson will spar, and all N.S.W.’s athletic
champions are to appear in one capacity or an-
other. Admirers of gallantry and a good show
are hereby counselled to roll up and make the
thing a success.
** * *
The Maori Village, at Clontarf (N.S.W.),
has had three weeks of rain and bad luck. Even
the picture show round the corner has suffered ;
but when it is a matter of taking a trip to Middle
Harbor, nobody has ventured without a macin-
tosh, two umbrellas and a life-line. Wherefore
the smile of Maggie has worn thin, and the voice
of Iwa has been hushed, and the village has taken
to its canoes. Still the banner of manager West-
macott hangs upon the outer wall of the front pah,
and waves an invitation to the world to pay Is.
and come in and see and hear how our brown
brother the Maori lives the (more or less) Simple
Life.
** * *
A change is coming o’er the scenes at three
Melbourne theatres ; but the Williamson panto, is
going on for ever or thereabouts. Nothing
changes at Her Majesty’s except the audiences,
and even they present a general appearance of
being always the same. Anyhow, they are invari-
ably crowded, and the differences in their compo-
sition don’t count at the pay-boxes. Going
to the panto, is a habit, a duty, a
custom, and an epidemic which few persons
escape. Up to now the total number of people
who have visited “Jack and the Beanstalk” is
125,000, these appalling figures being supplied by
the advt. Seeing that the population of Mel-
bourne is four times that number, and many of
the patients have to pay two or three visits before
they are cured, it seems probable that the cow
which spurns the milking pail will continue to
be bartered away for a bag of beans until the
Easter bun looms above the horizon.
* * * at
At Melbourne Royal they are making ready
“TheGayGrisette” to replace “The Gay Gordons”
on Saturday. The coming production is described
as a frivolity in two acts, and the background for
the first half of the frivol is the Chateau de Pietb,
where the characters presumably go to raise money
for act two, which includes a Beer Garden. If it
is as full of interest as the Mont-de-Piete it should
prove a great attraction.
** * *
Even “ The Bad Girl of the Family ” is on
the verge of dissolution. Her drawing power is
almost exhausted, for the present, as far as Melb.
Princess’s is concerned, and her bedroom will soon
be To Let. Also, her wedding night is passing
away, and her colored posters will shortly be hid-
den by pictorial announcements of “ The Luck of
Roaring Camp.” The coming drama, due on
Saturday, derived its title from a story by Bret
Harte—and got the rest of its dramatic equip-
ment from Deadwood Dick, maybe.
** * *
At the King’s a new Australian drama is
to displace “ The Christian ” on Saturday. For
two more nights John Storm will pluck Miss
Quayle from the burning, or vice versa, and then
“ My Mate,” by Edmund Duggan, will lead the
children of Anderson into the wilderness, and
feed them with gum leaves and wild honey, so to
speak. Local color is said to have been burnt
into the characters by the Australian sun, and oil
of eucalyptus oozes from the narrative at every
pore.
* * ■* *
This is the last week of Barnold’s Dogs at
the Opera House, the alluring Dan being wanted
elsewhere. Any belated citizens who have-not
yet looked upon Dan in the supposititious throes of
insobriety are cordially invited to roll up before
the pub closes. Fasola, the nut-browned fakir,
will continue to submit illusions to casual notice,
and produce guinea-pigs from the interior of his
Sunday hat; also, Cooper, the comedian, and
Mabel Lait, the.bonza, are staying on till further
notice, together with Alexander Prince (the con-
eertinarian), Fanny Powers and others too
numerous to mention.
** * *
On balmy nights when a languid breeze
from off the St. Kilda sea steals gently through
the garish lights of Figure 8, and every air is
heavy with the sighs of ’Liza on the beach, one’s
fancy reverts to the Follies, who are bounded on
the south-west by Paradise and on the north-
east by the Howard Smith demesne. Taits’


BEARD’S BRITISH BUILT BIOSCOPES are used
the world over, with thorough satisfaction
guaranteed. Send to JERDAN’S, 393 George
Street, Sydney, for particulars of these and second-
hand films.
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
Medical Men
Recommend
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS.
Follies these times are eight in number
and entertaining in character. Theirs is
the unaggressive humor which turneth away
wrath. The stage is small, and if they were very
broadly, deeply and loftily funny, they would
burst their surroundings. As a rule, they are as
merry and bright as circumstances permit in their
comedy gags and burlesque dramas. The men
have musical voices, and the girls include the
charms of youth among their other accomplish-
ments. Miss Airlie, who takes sole control of the
piano, is an incisive little songstress ; and when
Miss Daisy Silvester, the toe dancer, puts her
poetry of motion into a complete pirouette—well,
at that brief moment the proximity of Paradise
seems most appropriate.
* * * *■
There may be emotional appeals about
“Simple Charity,” at present numbered among
West’s Melbourne pictures. But the strange
gloom of the subject sets one thinking of crypts,
cadavers and moonlit tombs. More pleasant is
“A Modern Knight Errant,” with its pious
bucolic love scenes. Equally happy is “ The
Passing of a Grouch.” Little need be said about
“The Big Drum,” or the repulsive pheasant-
shooting film. The first only suggests that In-
genuity is dead, and that Invention has joined
the unemployed. The second merely depicts a
taste for slaughter, that is condemned in com-
moners but condoned in kings.
** * *
Miss Odeyne Spark, making her first ap-
pearance in Australia at Adelaide Tivoli, under
the Rickards management, is an unusual young
person. Strikingly pretty, vet strikingly thin,
she floats about the stage with a smiling intent-
ness on her work that recalls Baby Watson. In
fact, the babe may, with luck, be something like
this when she grows up. Miss Spark has no great
voice, but she has some good songs and a dainty
“ way wid her,” and she is going to be very popu-
lar in this country. The Rousbys give another
newly-imported turn. It combines music with
lighting effects. A brilliant backcloth of a
volcano goes into eruption and rains lava;
or a day-scene in Paris turns into a night-
scape; or tambourines and triangles suspended
above the stage glow into illumination, and at
the same time add their note to the chorus.
It is all very quaint and unusual. “The Chris-
tian” at the Royal has done good business. Hall
Caine is a regular quarry for dramatists nowa-
days, and Miss Williamson has carved out her
own version. It is a little too diffuse, and anyone
not having read the book might have difficulty
in following it. It cuts the music-hall, insists on
the babies, makes Lord Robert a humorous
“Johnny,” and allows the hero to insult and defy
all unpopular characters in melodramatic fashion.
The authoress—barring the first act, where she is
forbidden by Anno Domini to look the youthful
Glory—does good work. So does Alfred Woods.
The writer has an unholy desire to see Woods in
“Fun on the Bristol.” His trim figure, half-
closed eyes, and suppressed smile while waiting
for a chance to break loose, all suggest a delight-
ful Widow O’Brien. Following Caine and Woods,
a juvenile pantomime of William Anderson’s has
just come in.
Last week a Sydney accountant was pro-
ceeded against for getting off the train at Woll-
stonecraft while the vehicle was in motion—
Wollstonecraft being one of the stations past
which the train was endeavoring to flash or streak
at the time. The defence was that the train was
only going two miles an hour. It was very pro-
perly swept aside by Clarke, S.M. If passengers
in this Milson’s Point-Hornsby system were
allowed to drop off whenever their trains hap-
pened to be moving no more than two miles an
hour, the ornate flower-decked stations of the
northern suburbs would go out of use, and the
military-looking stationmasters become things of
supererogation.
At last there has arisen a voice of com-
plaint about the shanties in which the N.S.W.
South Coast collier is often housed—he and his
wife and the children and the not-sto-numerous-
baby-as-it-ought-to-be. Apparently the South
Coast started with a copious lack of faith
in the permanency of its coal deposits, so
it got a shovel and a bit of tin and a
board or two, and threw together many cheap
dog-boxes handy to the mines. Then it sang that
beautiful hymn, “ We’ve No Abiding City Here,”
to intimate that it wasn’t worth while spending
money on drainage, things being so temporary.
Then typhoid broke out, and it was a cold, cold day
for the not-so-numerous-baby-as-it-ougbt-to-be.
There was a fearful riot in Maoriland
University Senate last week. The University can
turn out'fully-fledged doctors, metallurgists—
almost everything, in fact, but a fully-fledged
Doctor of Divinity. That has never been allowed,
and the other day, when the Senate proposed that
the institution should go the whole hog and give
the sky-pilot his certificate, the Chancellor arose
and strongly protested. It seems it was “never
intended” that the University should give any
degrees, but merely be a preparatory establish-
ment to qualify the young Maorilander to go
“ Home ” and get his brand of quality. And this
proposal to sweep away the last limitation was too
much—wherefore the “ never intendeds,” who are
full brothers to the “time is unripes,” begged
that the matter might be hung up a little, while
they went out and pulled themselves together.
“0.K.”: The Rights of Man, as regards
travelling in public conveyances, were asserted
for the first time on Melbourne newspaper record
by a citizen of Eaglehawk (Yic.)on Christmas
Eve. This champion of his sex was seated in a
crowded tramcar when another fellow remarked :
“ A man is no man who will keep his seat and
allow ladies to stand.” Whereupon the two gen-
tlemen came to blows, and the one who had made
the remark w’as defeated. Anyhow, he got
hustled off the car and had to walk home. Also,
he was charged with offensive behavior and sen-
tenced to pay costs. The time when man could
be “ shamed ” into giving up his seat to oblige a
female began to expire as soon as women lodged a
protest against being called the weaker sex, or
the softer sex. It became evident then that no
fair-minded man could continue the old deceitful
acts of courtesy which pretended to be due to
woman’s alleged weakness. The fact that a num-
ber of tired men do persist in giving up their seats
to girls who are better able to stand merely proves
that man, as a rule, hasn’t the moral courage of
his opinions. Strictly speaking, the Eaglehawk
tram-passenger who bravely defended his seat
against aggressive female odds deserved the unin-
tentional compliment with which the other
fellow assailed him. He was no man, i.e., no
ordinary man. His behavior was godlike.
A FINAL EFFORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Old Black Hat," he wrote in haste,
“ Is Just a Long, Loud Scream."
And underneath that yelp he placed
“ An Opium-Smuggler’s Dream,"
And marked it “ Absolutely Just
The Outside Limit! ” Then
He put down “ Bunkins on the Bust,"
And shoved his flashing pen
Along the page; “ This film has made
Kings Giggle. See it Noiv.” . . .
And, as he wrote, his hand he laid
Across his big, broad brow.
“ ‘ Fun in the Fowlhouse ’ is," he scrawled,
“ The best fowl-film on earth.
At this whole families have bawled
In wild, mad, utter mirth.
‘ Soustralians Taming Tigers,’ ‘ Goats
At Grass in Switzerland ’ ”
With loads of exclamation-notes
And language simply grand
He plastered up the Tiger School
And crowned the Poor Man’s Cow. . . ,
And, with his fingers, tried to cool
His overheated brow.
“ ‘ Bumping the Bumps at Bondi.' This—”
He wrote—and stuck at that,
His puff-works somehow gone amiss.
“ * Bumping the Bumps ’”. .He sat
And chewed his pen in frenzy, not
An enviable sight,
And squirmed as though his chair were hot,
And thought with all his might.
His hand was tremulous, nor could
It cool his burning brow ;
And so at last he wrote, “ is good ”...
His job is vacant now 1
VICTORIA.
THE SHOVER.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: Remarkable how’France has lost its place as
a eomie-opera-manufacluring country. Time was when
English-speaking countries got ail their light musical
pieces from Paris in a translated form. Offenbach (who
was German by parentage but French by musical educa-
tion) founded a school which flourished for, say, 30 years.
Then followed the satires of Gilbert and Sullivan; and
after that the Germans started a serious competition.
Their earliest attempts were as dull as three-volume
novels; but when the industry got firmly estab-
lished in Vienna it made rapid headway. Aus-
tralia nowadays gets hardly any French light opeia.
.“Vbronique” and “The Little Michus” were the last
important works we had from Paris, via London. All the
musical comedies are made in England, and the operas
are mostly from Austria. “The Merry Widow” and
“The Waltz Dream” were born in Vienna. The com-
poser of “ The Dollar Princess” is a German, and all the
operas that Clarice and Meynell have in view are of
Austrian or German parentage. “The Chocolate Sol-
dier,” by Oscar Strauss, is a Viennese joke on
Bernard Shaw’s “Arms and the Man.” “Mein Junger
Herr,” “Rosenkavalier” and “Die Kleine Freunden,”
all by Strauss, will probably get translated titles
ere they reach Australia. A new opera by
Lehar, the composer of “The Merry Widow,”
has already been translated into “At Last: —Alone.”
Another of the Olarke-Meynell purchases is “ Die Sirene,”
by Leo Stein and A. N. Willner. Thus Germans are set-
ting the fashion in comic opera, and Frenchmen, for the
present, are of no importance.
One big Australian theatrical firm, in making contracts
with the British pro., introduces a stipulation that there
is to be no engagement with any rival Kangaroo Land firm
for at least three years after the expiration of the original
proprietary’s lease of him (or her), and sometimes also lays
it down that Mr. or Miss (as the case may be) must not
marry during the currency of the contract. Marriage
has often been barred in theatrical agreements, but the
bar is a rotten reed in law. If a firm wishes to realise
the full strength of “ If she will, she will, you may de-
pend on’t,” let it try to stop an English actress from
marrying an Australian squatter.
“ Wevin,” from the other side : “ Curly ” Bellew at
latest was making plans with Frohman and a steamship
co. in London to tour the world with a dramatic and
musical comedy co. The tour is to cover 47,000 miles and
take two years. The idea is to charter a vessel of 3000
tons and fit it with a theatre in which “ Curly ” expects
to visit not only every port wherein he played with Brown
Potter, but every harbor with any fair-sized English
settlement adjacent. The expedition will probably leave
London on August 15 for Gibraltar ; from Gibraltar the
theatre will steam to S’Africa, where the crew will find its
land legs for a month or two ; thence along the East
Coast, touching Madagascar and Arabia, and on into
Indo-China ; then Australia; after that the Philippines
and finally ’Frisco. The rolling repertoire will include
“ Charlotte Corday,” “Yvonne,” “The Knight Bird”
(ortherwise “Raffles”), “The Thief,” etc. The steamship
co. stipulates that it may carry cargo, as well as extra
passengers, between ports.
FRED QUINTRELL, the Conductor at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
The N.S.W. Minister for Public Instruction has rum-
maged out the Act which bars the stage-employment of
children under 14, and announces that he is going to
enforce it. Except in cases of obviously brilliant chil-
dren, whose talent simply yells for stage expression,
permits will not be granted in future.
Zena Dare, the good-looking Gaiety post-card girl, was
married at a Paddington registry office (London) last
w’eek to Maurice Vyner Baliol Brett, second son of Vis-
count Esher, and grandson of a former Master of the
Rolls. There is not much in the way of property ; but
the groom, who is 30 years of age, is related to the
Dudleys, which is a trifle to go on with, though it isn’t
much good as a breakfast food.
Pathe Frferes’ business in Sydney has been fitted with a
lightning-conductor in ErSkine Scott, who arrived 6n
Monday iast to take oharge of the office. For the past three
years or more Erskine Scott has found comparative rest in
connection with the Melbourne establishment of West’s
Pictures, where he acted as press-agent and assistant-
manager. With every other sort of show he had travelled
Australasia of yore ; but the Pictures kept him busy in
Melbourne, all the time gathering knowledge of the new
trade. Considering that he is dimly connected with the
royal Stuarts, and ought to be at least a prince of the
blood, Erskine Scott is unaccountably business-like and
affable all round ; and, because of his popularity, a num-
ber of the staff and orchestra at West’s joined in a pre-
sentation to him before he left Victoria, where, by the
way, he retains an interest in Pathb Frbres’ instructive
touring show of “ Australia at Work,” which he origi-
nated last year.
George Musgrove, fresh in Sydney from M.L. and the
management of the Nellie Stewart tour, is simply oozing
Prohibition stories. One of them. It occurred at Never-
Mind-Where. Harconrt Beatty returned to the hotel
after the performance, and told Musgrove that he would
gladly give a week’s salary for a long whiskj' and
soda. Like Sergeant Mulvaney, he was “spitting chips.”
He had the thirst that is made only in Prohibition
centres. Musgrove heard his plaints and assured him
“ I never saw a better sort than the landlady looks. She
must have a bottle stowed somewhere.” The landlady
came in. “ This is Mr. Beatty.” (Beatty was lying on
the sofa apparently in great pain.) “You saw him play-
ing to-night, Mrs. Drouth—l noticed you in the audience.”
The landlady glow'ed. “Yes, and if I were 20 years
younger I’d be in love—oh, that King Charles! ”
“Well,” Musgrove continued, “I really don’t know
what we’ll do about Mr. Beatty. He is suffering
very severe internal pains. Now’, surely you could
find us some whisky or brandy? If you only”
'“I’ll have him right in five minutes,” said
the eager lady. “Just wait.” And she whisked from
the room. “It means one each,” said Musgrove, sink
ing back in a chair and sighing luxuriously. “ Long
ones,” agreed Beatty in a tone, low, deep and desper-
ately ecstatic. Back whisked the lady, bearing and
carrying a—mustard plaster. .... ■
That old Bulletin artist. G. Rossi Ashton, is giving an
original performance in English halls. What time the
orchestra gallops through a series of airs, he illustrates
the ditties in a humorous way. The turn has a good
spectacular effect, inasmuch as Ashton draws in time
with the music, while his comely missus directs the band.
“Haresfoot”: “O.K.’s ’’mention of Nellie Mortyne, as
probably Australia’s most-travelled actress, sets me won-
dering w’hether the lady’s name was taken from Ellen
Mortyn, who came to Australia from London in 1858.
She had been a great Dublin favorite; but an
unhappy marriage caused her to break away. Her
Melbourne debut was at the Theatre Royal, in
Tom Taylor’s then new’ play, “The Unequal Match,”
and she sighed over it as if it were her own case.
Her success was quite immense ; she was thought superior
to the original heroine, Amy Sedgwick, at the London
Haymarket. The Melbourne cast included R. Younge,
F. Younge, Lambert, Harwood, Gladstone, Tannett and
Harlowe, a brother of the Younges. After the run of
“ The Unequal Match ” there was a great combination in
Shakspeare’s “Two Gentlemen of Verona,” with Ellen
Mortyn, Mrs. Heir, Brooke, Heir, Lambert, etc. Ireland,
Harrie’s father, made his first appearance on the regular
stage as Sir Eglamour. Not long afterwards Ellen Mortyn
died. Dr. L. L. Smith had attended her. There were
disgraceful rumors—utterly disproved by a post-mortem.
HER MAJESTY'S PANTO., MELBOURNE.
Sybil Arundale as
Jack.
Rupert Barr ell as the
Extraordinary Waiter.
“ Jean S.” : We’ve heard of Maud Allan, the pretentious
dreamer, who catalogued the writhes of Miss Salome.
We’ve heard of Polaire, the fuzzy-haired, who lifts her
props in Apache barbarities. And we shall shortly hear
of La Belle Pavlova, who is beginning to dance the
“ Turkey Trot.” This last is the semi-sensuous invention
of a San Franciscan, and is supposed to express the pas-
sion of the tiles in the motions of a farmyard rake.
Will Dyson, who is now doing a page of theatrical cari-
cature for a London weekly, in addition to his World
and Weekly Despatch matter, says that, after a couple
of months’ contact with the profession, he believes
English pros, who have been to Australia contract house-
maid’s knee through much beseeching of Providence to
return them to the Sunny South, C.O.D. Pay is better
in Australia, engagements are more enduring, and, above
and before all, the actor man gets immediate, ardent and
abiding adulation. One dejected mummer, recently back
from Australia, confided that he was supplicating High
Heaven arid Australian managers for many happy re-
turns. “In Melbourne or Sydney,” said he, “an actor is
well known within a week. Public appreciation is out
after him at once ; he gets it on the stage, in the street,
at a hundred houses. Here he is lost in the fog. There
he is an It; here he is a Nit. To the man who is not
absolutely up top in London, Australia spells Eden—Eve,
apples and all.”
“Stony”: I heard Melbourne’s city organist render
“Hark, the Herald Angels Sing,” the other night. Since
then I have been unenthusiastic about passing through
the Golden Gates. Paradise struck me as dashed
sight too noisy. The angels began by mooching,
more or less quietly, up and down the Stairs in their
stockinged feet. Then they put on their boots anfl strode
noisily to the top, and came down like 4cwt. of coals
Next they scrambled up on all fours and slid down the
banisters. After a short pause, the heavenly bodies put
by their harps, took a peal of church-bells in either hand,
and. went up the stairs on tip-toe, waving the iron-
mongery violently as they neared the top step. When
they reached the landing there was an unexpected, wild,
terrific, triumphant, united scream from the angel choir,
and angels, church peals, angels’ halos, boots and all
came crashing basement-wards like an inebriated earth-
quake. After which there befell a vast, delicious silence.
I do hope the herald angels take a long rest sometimes.
“S.T.S.”: London’s new music hall, the Palladium,
which opened at Christmas as a two-shows-a-day Variety
house, claims (1) to hold 5000 people ; (2) to be clearable
by 19 exits in one minute ; (3) to have every seat in the
house bookable beforehand; and (4) to give everyone in
it a clear view of the stage. The prices are more Austra-
lian than English, being only 4s. for the “ Imperial Grand
Circle,” and ss. for the “ Imperial Fauteuils ” —which is
the name foolishly given to the reserved stalls. The
gallery is sixpence if you take your chance, though you
can book for ninepence. This plan may be confidently
expected to break down inside of six months. A gallery
crowd that has waited outside for two hours, and then
surges in an hour before the curtain rises, is not likely to
worry about a seat “ reserved” here and thete ; it would
take an expensive commissionaire to hold each three-
penn’orth of booking ogainst the field. No scheme for
booking the whole house has ever been able to endure.
“Arch R.”: Whilst in London recently I made it a
point to hear all the musical comedies, from “The
Arcadians ” to “ The Girl in the Train,” and to visit sub-
urban houses also, in order to learn how bad a London
chorus can be. The G.B.P.—Great British Playgoer—has
no idea What a chorus should be, and is—in Australia.
Yet the London choruses are physically robust enough,
and that without any adminiculation, Which is a Scotch
legal term, and you can look it up for yourself. Half an
hour of “ The Arcadians ” in the West End was enough
for me, after the much better staging and infinitely
better chorus of the Australian show'.
“D.”r The boom of Julian Rose, at Sydney Tivoli, is
hard to account for. He presents a Jew whom few
Sydneyites have ever met. Rose’s Yid is not the cheery,
well-fed, self-assertive Australian Hebrew, the shiny,
radiant, prosperous and well-satisfied citizen who is
capable of buying out the next man, lock, stock and
barrel, and knows it and mostly shows he knows it.
Rather is he the well-kicked Polish Sheeny who does not
come here and is not missed. Rose’s whole art
consists in portraying the shrinking, currish, denizen
of a N’York ghetto. He does it well. The cringing, fur-
tive walk and manner ; the beady eye, cast in hunted
fashion from side to side ; the cracked, whining voice—
all are excellent. But they aren’t alluring, and the pro-
longed dose of them which Rose gives his audiences gets
tiresome. And his yarns are almost as old as Judaism.
The one about the man whom the lady accused of having
had a good day among the umbrellas, was a favorite with
that Heraclius who, in alliance with the Khazars, sacked
Dastagard near Ctesiphon in 627. It was translated from
the original Persian by Joe Miller for his famous Book,
years and years ago. And most of the rest of Rose’s quips
are nearly as time-worn.
“Bookware”: A new' biog. of Ainsworth is out. Poor
chap, he outlived his popularity. A novel in the first
half of his career brought him £l5OO ; in the last half,
only £125. He only got £2O out of the “Jack Sheppard ”
drama, which ran for months at the Adelphi. It recalls
that Jenold only got £3O for “ Black-Eyed Susan,”
though the manager made £30,000. The case was just
the same with Byron’s “Our Boys.” Oh, the w'riter with
a Past! Thank Heaven if you’ve none—if all’s in front.
Happy the Boothby and Nat Gbuld ! They go on piling
up the perfection, and could do it for a century. Aim
low—and lay ’em out!
Marie Hall, the violinist, has been married to Edward
Baring, of the Baring Brothers concert-promoting firm,
under whose direction she is touring the world.
“Jean Sibi Beerbohm Tree’s latest effort is adesorip-
tive booklet on Henry VIII. and his remarkable Court.
Tree tries to picture the greatness of an age by earnestly
recording its banalities. He notes the style and cut of
Henry’s clothes ; mentions the number of beds in the
possession of Cardinal Wolsey ; and records that, at the
coronation of Anne Boleyn, “two Countesses stood on
either side of Anne’s chair and held a ‘ fine cloth before
the Queen’s face whenever she listed to spit.’” Portions
of the book read like the memoirs of a kitchenmaid in the
service of the Tudors. You are apparently urged to be
astounded at the blinding blaze of Wolsev’s plate or at
the clamorous crimson of his robes. You are even ex-
pected to marvel that Henry once blew a penny whistle
when attired in a suit of naval design. All things con-
sidered, Tree’s curious production should have been
retained as a supplement to M.A.P.
“ Eddyson ” : European caricaturists always represent
the English tourist and his missus—also his misses—as
having conspicuous teeth like miniature headstones. I
have noticed that English and Australian editors scoff at
this artistic convention as quite absurd ; but English and
Australian editors are so accustomed to conspicuous
incisors that the characteristic effect is lost upon them.
The British lion does show his teeth. So does the British
lioness. And I find this toothy tendency developing.
There are four English actresses prominent on the Mel-
bourne stage to-night, and with each of them the first
thing that strikes you is teeth. Take a series of post-
cards of flourishing British stage beauties, and you can-
not escape the sets and sets of teeth grinning at you.
Possibly the inefficiency of the English dentist is largely
responsible for the toothsome character of these footlight,
favorites, but it exists, and the biting satire of the Ger-
man caricaturist is justified.
“N.”: There are already in Australia three biograph
newspapers, newsfilms, or gazettes—Pathbs, the Warwick,
and the Gaumont. At the biograph one is a sort of
cheffonier or Paris ragpicker, with the advantage of
being almost sure to find jewels in the rubbish-heap. The
new picture which hits me hardest is Pathbs’ bird’s-eye
panorama of Lucerne, actually taken from an airship.
London and Paris are to follow, and Sydney and Mel-
bourne when the airship is provided. Incredibly
astounding as the panorama is, I am most thrilled
by the actual feeling of being on the Dirigible—some-
thing quite novel in sensations, and very cheap at the
money. Doesn’t this open up a new field for the amuse-
ment-monger?
“ The Shover ”: The shopular suburb of Malvern (Vic.)
has become a convert to Socialism, despite its atmo-
sphere of warehousely superiority and shopwalkish high-
breeding. But instead of breaking up its homes every
evening, it does it for a start only on Wednesdays,
weather permitting, when it dragsits respectable citizens
out into the warm summer night to watch the town
band and listen to the whirling of the municipal picture-
works. These concerts, popularly known as “ moonies,"
are demonstrating, by the succulent morsel of profit
which is discovered each evening between the shells of
expenditure and receipts, that Socialism, even in in-
sufferably superior Malvern, is not the selfish devil which
it is made out to be by Malvern’s representatives in the
State and Federal Parliaments.
Runciman, the doughty writer on things musical, is
disgusted with the burlesque on “Salome,” presented at
Covent Garden. The charger with the head of John
Baptist is represented by an empty waiter’s tray. The
suggestion of rump-steak or oyster is inevitable. Runci-
man jeers at the censor and the mothers’ meeting that
advises him. and asks why a calf’s head shouldn’t have
been substituted for the prophet’s head.
A curious biled cat of British finance is
recalled by a recent cablegram. Last year, an
English firm named Nelson started to boom its
goods by promising an annuity to the widow of
any man who died within a certain period after
buying a certain quantity of Nelson’s tea. The
firm made an even worse miscalculation than the
people who devised the N.S.W. railway and
tramway pension fund, and it fell down dead in a
few months with nearly £7,000,000 of liabilities.
The matter is brought to mind by the fact that
one of the men who devised the scheme has lately
been floating a company to bring about the mil-
lennium. That has also failed badly, the millen-
nium flatly refusing to eventuate on any terms.
A sudden doubt arises about the useful-
ness of Justice Hornburg of S.A. Last week
Paris Nesbit, K.C., chanced to mention in court
that affluent people sometimes faked their income
tax returns. Homburg was shocked, and refused
to believe it. Nesbit assured him that it was so,
and then the man with the name that sounds like
Humbug, spoke sententiously and said :
I give other people the credit of being as honest as
myself.
Now, Homburg receives a large salary for gaoling
people who are not as honest as himself. Does he
mean that he isn’t so honest as he looks, or that
the people to whom he hands out three years are
a great deal more honest than they look—in fact,
that they are the luckless victims of circumstance?
A vague impression that Homburg isn’t earning
his salary hangs round hereabouts.
Adelaide’s fine water-service was severely
tried last week. The big main, which brings
water in from the Onkaparinga, sprung a leak,
and the supply had to be shut off completely.
The mains from the old Torrens supply are still
working, and they had to serve the city. Some
hydraulic lifts stopped working, and high build-
ings got no pressure up aloft for a day and a half ;
but the fact remains that Adelaide was aide to
drink and wash while its chief water-supply was
out of action. The Fire Fiend considerately ob-
served the truce. Two days later there was a
blaze in the city. It was out in an hour, but, as
the Brigade Superintendent said, if it had come
during the low-pressure period, “half Bundle-
street might have gone.” Which will probably
make Adelaide wonder whether it hadn’t better
start saving up enough to buy itself a second main
conduit.


Ceylon
Sale Price,
Pyjamas
9/9.
Usually Priced at 12/6.
A well-wearing superior quality Oeylon, soft and comfort-
able in wear, and in a variety of neat colored striped
designs. Well cut by our own special man cutter, Usual
and made up in our own factory—turn down collar, rriee.
girdle at waist. In sizes t ( o' fit all men ./. ... 12/6
Rale
Price.
9/9
Jap Crepe Pyjamas.
Usual Price, 10/6.
Men’s White or Colored Stripe Jap CrSpe Pyjamas, turn
down collar, pearl buttons ... .. ... 10/6 8/6
Every article reduced In price at this great Sale, which closes on February 18.
WE PAY CARRIACE on all Goods except Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchen and
Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth. Only on Toys when ordered
with other goods.
DAVID JONES Etd.,
Opp.
G.P.0.,
Sydney
.in n -wm .
■as
■ •m
m
• r
.
sag
'
,j>-V
-• .3 *i*
SJBjjpA
DON’T WORRY!
IF YOU ARE PRESSED FOR TIME
SEND YOUR PLATES and FILMS to
HARRINGTONS ITD.
and have them Developed and Printed by their
EXPERT STAFF OF OPERATORS,
at prices within Reach of All.
CALL AND INSPECT
Our Up-to=date Stock of
“ENSIGN” Cameras
DAYLIGHT LOADING. From 5/- Upwards.
Not Fail to Read HARRINGTONS’ PHOTOGRAPHIC JOURNAL.
SPECIAL MARINE NUMBER—NOW READY,
should be without it. Price 4d. per Copy.
No Photographer—Amateur or Otherwise-
Subscription 4/6 per annum, post free.
ARRINGTONS LTD.
SYDNEY—3B6 George Street, near C.P.O.
MELBOURNE—266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—93-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—Cawler Place.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Now and again the Wowser wobbles into
truth. The Age reported Mr. No-Ball. M.L.A.,
chief spooker at an Orange jamboree at St. Kilda,
thus: “The Orangemen here were going to fight,
however, until they got their Bile into the State
schools of this country.” Don’t tell us it was the
printer.
* * * *
On the principle, no doubt, that music
hath charms to soothe the savage breast—not for-
getting the old trick of whistling softly to bring
the serpent out of its hole—a Sydney Evening
News advertiser breaks into melody to lure the
shy domestic help :
VST ANTED, a LADY HELP, by an aged couple in a
* ' comfortable home in Darlirighurst.
A Christian, did you say? Yes; fatherless or
motherless, and upright as the day. For well we
know that only so will anyone come to stay till Jesus
comes. Apply .
There was a fine chance to drag in another rhyme
“they offer decent pay,” for instance. But
somehow, when a Christian person advertises for
an orphan, he generally seems to do it to avoid
mentioning the painful subject of £ s. d.
THE AERIAL DREADNOUGHT.
“ Confound it! I told my son if he didn't knock
off aviation he would find himself in a
hospital!”
According to a Westralian paper
The fallen soldiers’ memorial in King’s Park, Perth, is
in such a state of dilapidation that the committee re-
solved to replace it by an obelisk, to cost £6OO. Ever\
boy enrolled under the new Defence Act will be asked to
contribute 6d.
It appears an unlikely way to make citizen service
popular among young Australians. Wherefore
should money be extorted from lads whose only
offence lies in the fact that they are serving their
country ? In any case these youngsters, who are to
be thus blackmailed of their lolly money, were in-
fants when the S’African trouble occurred. They
had nothing to do with it, made no profit out of it,
didn’t get a solitary thrill from it, and would
hardly have known it was raging had not their
elders periodically bumped them in the course of
frantic rushes to those places where British vic-
tories were celebrated in beer. If any section of
the community is to be separated from its coin in
honor of the S’African trouble, Justice fairly yells
that it should be those who got some change out
of the disturbance.
* ♦ * *
Another memorial of the war is in need of
repair—one of those that were raised (or lowered
as the case may be) in Melbourne. Its guardian,
or caretaker, stumped into the City Court the
other day to ask for a trifle from the poor-box. It
seemed that, as a Cohentingenter. he had lost a
leg in Britain’s cause, and was supplied with an
artificial substitute. A pension of Bs. 2d. a week
also resulted from his calamity; but as Bs. 2d.
didn’t keep his wife and family in luxury, he took
on odd jobs. Lately, he was lumping bags of
potatoes on the wharf when his own special
memorial gave way under him, and he had to be
taken to the hospital to get his face mended. But
his sham limb also needed mending; hence his
appeal to the poor-box. Somehow, they none of
them make an appeal to the portly citizens who
but lately Mafficked.
“** * *
“ Augustus Blowfly ” : As a new arrival in
Sydney, I wish to leap thrice into the air, smite
my bosom violently with my fists, and rend the
air with savage wails of accusation against the
“ City of Laughter and Sunshine.” Sunshine !
Laughter ! Why the place is a drowned swamp, in-
fested by virulent brands of Wowser, beside which
the Melbourne variety is scarcely worth wasting
insectibane on. Consider the railway tunnels—
lit by prying lamps. Regard the pubs—cheerless,
sawdust-strewn sepulchres, where music is for-
bidden. Observe the dusty, untidy parks, where
Wowserdom rules it a crime to recline on the
grass. Cast the eye over the surf-beaches, with
their comic opera police in white Wowser-cut
trousers, placed there to restrain citizens from
Bacchantic excesses. I understand now why the
D.T. and S’morning Herald are allowed to exist.
They are part and parcel of the pests cultivated
by an overjudkinned. community which wishes to
cure itself of the disease named Joy.
Ik * * *
“According to the inspector, defendant
was manufacturing icecream in the yard. He was
mixing the contents of a kerosene tin, placed over
a fire, with a dirty stick. The fire was close to a
lavatory, which was very filthy, and the perspira-
tion was streaming from defendant’s face and
neck into the tin. His clothes were dirty.” After
reading which account of the prosecution of a
certain Antonio at the Sydney Central Court, let
us give the dear children a penny apiece to spend
at Antonio’s barrow !
* * * *
The squad of unfortunate Jap “anar-
chists ” who were despatched in single file between
8 a.m. and 3 p.m. last week, never had the sem-
blance of what white folks would deem “a fair
go.” Denjiro Kotolcu, a harmless visionary,
had translated Marx, Engels and Tolstoi
into the vernacular ; and his associates had
applauded him. That was enough; the
entire brood was doomed. Under Art. 73
of the Japanese Criminal Code—“ Anyone
who injures, assassinates or attempts to
assassinate the Emperor . . . shall be put
to death.” According to the Jap way of
thinking, it is as flagitious to think treason
as it is to assail the Emperor with a
meat-axe. He who translates and promul-
gates the works of men who despise em-
perors must, argues the Jap, be in sym-
pathy with the traitorous writers’ views.
That is to say, he is himself a traitor. That
is to say, he deserves to die. Ordinarily
speaking, an accused person in Japan
appears first before a Preliminary Court
from which the press and public are ex-
cluded. Then he is publicly tried, after
which there is a public appeal to a Court,
after the style of Australia’s High Court.
Finally, accused may go to the Court of
Cassation. Kotoku and his friends ap-
peared before the secret Preliminary Court,
and then were rushed straight up to the
Court of Cassation, which, sitting in
camera, condemned and sentenced them.
The business is really only one feature of
the .Tap Government’s new campaign against
Socialism. The Jap authorities are the only
responsible folk in the world to-day, who
hold with George Reid’s theory, expressed
during his 1906 Anti-Sosh campaign, to the
effect that the Socialist, the Republican
and the Anarchist are all identical. George
Reid merely urged that the owner of the Sosh
Tiger should not be returned to office; the Jap,
more consistent, slays everyone who is suspected
of being even remotely connected with the raven-
ing animal.
When Australian names are changed they
are not often changed for the better ; but There is
something to be said for the decision of Griffith,
N.S.W. Works Minister, to drag “Barren .lack,
back to its original “ Burrinjuck.” The corrupted
“Barren Jack ” was good enough as long as it
only referred to a hill with a wallaby or two on
it; but now that it is the label on Australias
biggest irrigation scheme, there is something in
throwing overboard the tag that hints at the very
thing that is least calculated to attract settlers
that way.
“ MAN, DRESSED IN A LITTLE
BRIEF AUTHORITY.”
SCOUT IN CHARGE (to the rank and
file): “Here, you, quick march!”
Webster will have to issue a supplement
to his dictionary shortly if there are many more
amendments of the Maoriland Liquor Act. The
“lighthouse-keeper” who sold nips out of a
bottle is now an old institution. Then came the
“dropper.” In transacting business with a
dropper you first spot your dropper, who usually
wears a voluminous overcoat. Then follows a
“ silver introduction.” You then follow him to a
quiet place, where he accidentally drops . the
alleged value of the introduction on the grass or
some soft spot. You then get to biz with a cork-
screw (everv second man m a dry area carries a
“gimlet”)." “Dropping” is not a pleasant
pastime in summer, and invalids wearing over-
coats are beginning to get the frigid eye from the
Law. Since the last amendment re storing came
into force and wiped out the lockers, a man who
stores for anyone else is known as a “ warehouse” ;
and the new warehouses that are springing up in
Maoriland are amazingly numerous.
* * « *
Art in excelsis :
WANTED for girls’ boarding school, young LADY
to teach drill and drawing, and to assist in..
. supervision of boarders and light housework.
, Herald Branch (Sydney).
Drawing and drill, with the dustpan and' the
dishcloth as side-lines ! And the very superior
schools where voung ladies are “ finished” have a
habit of scorning the idea of State inspection.
Well, perhaps they are wise.
* * * *
“D.L.H.” from ’Frisco: —
Can’t you stimulate'our High Commissioner to some
real effort in the art of feasting? To an Australian in
exile, who brags of everything Australian, from potatoes
down to politicians, it is very humiliating, after having
mentioned with pride.the gastronomic powers.of our Mr.
Reid, to be confronted with this paragraph from the S. F.
Examiner of Sunday (18/12/TO): —
“30 Dix Feasts in a Week.
“New York Governor-Elect Holds Time Record For
Banquets.
“New York, December 17.— Governor-Elect Dix left
to-night for Albany, smiling and victorious, a veteran of
23 dinners and seven luncheons in one week. At the
banquet of the Saratoga Society to-night Corporation
Counsel Watson congratulated him publicly. Dix left the
dinner of the Saratoga to attend that of the Tammany
Speakers’ Association. He has eaten his ordinary meals
regularly.”
And we have no assurance that Gorge R. eats his ordi-
nary meals regularly.” Plea«e urge him on.
Every week the Sabbath beer and the day-
of-rest whisky flow unrestrained on the usually
crowded and mostly policeless pleasure steamers
which cater for the summer-season tripper-trade
of Port Phillip. Lashins of beer, at the usual city
rates, are provided by the thoughtful proprietaries
which run the Sunday excursions ; and the result
is that, when, now and again, some daily paper re-
porter gets his hat bashed in what time he is taking
the Sabbath breeze and has his feet galloped on
by some giant refreshed with beer, and his scared
womenfolk are treated to yards of multicolored
language, some furious writing is found in
next morning’s news-sheet. It happened that
way the other Sunday, and “drunken hood-
lums’’ and “sorry Sunday sights” were duly
deplored in the Argus. Yet that great, reform-
ing newspaper nobly refrained frbm shooting the
responsibility upon anybody—the cash-grabbing
proprietaries, the sluggish police department, or
the Heaven-blest Murray Government, which
makes no apparent attempt to stem the broad tide
of tanglefoot as it flows profitably down to the
Heads each sunny Sabbath morn, and back again
to Port Melbourne each drowsy Sabbath eve. Of
course, the reply to criticism is obvious —that the
bar, y’ know, barely pays expenses, y’ under-
stand ? Somehow, the bar never does pay more
than bare expenses in these cases.
* * * *
“ Albatross ” : The Marine Board of Vic-
toria recently received a letter from the Marine
Board of Tasmania calling attention to alleged
overcrowding on the steamer Boongana whilst
running excursion trips. The secretary of the
Victorian Board stated that, by special holi-
day certificate, the Loongana was entitled
to carry 500 passengers, including 118 “on
deck.” Information, he said, had been ob-
tained from the Immigration Office that only 484
and 853 passengers had been carried, so the
special “ holiday license ” hadn’t been exceeded.
In commenting on this the Argus makes Mr.
McLean, of the Vic. Board, say: “It is ex-
tremely difficult to get hold of the passenger
lists.” ’ What the other papers make Mr. McLean
say is: “It is extremely difficult to get reliable
figures from shipowners.” Which is right? I
venture to assert that the latter is. Anyhow, where
does the Immigration Office get its figures from !
Does it not rely on the passenger lists submitted
by the shipowners? And if these figures are
“faked,” as suggested by Mr. McLean, how does
the Marine Board check overcrowding on
steamers ? It is not pessimistic to say that if this
sort of thing continues, Australia will some day
get the news of a great marine disaster involving
a large loss of life through there not being enough
lifeboats to go round an overcrowded boat. And
the people who are drowned will be just as dead
as if the ship hadn’t got a special “holiday certi-
ficate.”
THE GOAT CLUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Countess of Aberdeen, who is taking a keen in
terest in the movement to improve and popularise the
goat, has become a life member of the British Goat
Society, which has done much in this direction since its
inauguration over 30 years ago.— Argus.
The Argus has a large clientele who love to hear all
about countesses, and the Countess, delightful woman,
returns the compliment by being keenly interested in
goats. How naice !—Tiie Bulletin.
It may suit your callow Peer
To go shooting fallow deer,
To enrol himself in rifle or
In boat club ;
But the Countess Aberdeen
Has a nobler aim, I ween,
For to-day she is a member of
The Goat Club.
Does the Lady understand
There is many a weary hand
More in need of light and leading
Than a she-goat ?
There is many a titled youth
More obtuse to vital truth,
More in need of much improving
Than a he-goat?
Yes ! As soon as we reflect
What a crowd we might collect
Of Tom-noddies who’rea cut b low
The steer ige,
It is possible to-day
That the Goat-Club shows a way
Of uplifting both the Billies and
The Peerage !
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


Eich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
V ..
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’s ~
put
in
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes.
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the " Pure Food Act, 1908,*
by Lever Brothers Limited
Sydney. N.S.W.
No. 57.
Hunyadf
Janos
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler
lon arising, before breakfast, for
CONSTIPATION
If you want something really good in the way
of r zors or razor strops, buy Che Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. fid. and 10s. fid.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
This Black Vici or Tan
Box Calf Boot for . .
It’s a cheap boot in price only—the materials
and the making are both good—we know that,
because the boot is specially built for us on a
special last, and we sell great numbers without
receiving a word of complaint. It is an ex-
tended’ medium shape, with close welts and
linen linings. \
When you order, don’t forget to tell us what
size you take, and say whether you want it in
Vici or Box Calf.
Price 12/6
(Posted 1/- extra;(lnter-
State 1/3 extra.)
Sjg
r
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
509-311 George Street, Sydney.
E. A. Poe might have built a beautifully-
shnddersome literary frame upon a shinbone
which is puzzling the Carrum (Vic.) police.
Lately, a 14-year-old boy was fishing off Frank-
ston jetty. Suddenly he saw a strange dog
watching him. He went on fishing, and the dog
went on watching patiently—expectantly. A
fire broke out in the adjacent scrub, and
the boy picked a long bone out of the
water, and ran to beat the fire out with
it. A lady said: “Boy, here is a sugar-
bag ; you will do better work if you put the
bone in the bag and beat the fire with it. 1 ' He
did, and the dog watched patiently—expectantly.
When the fire was out the hoy threw the bag
aside, and went back to his fishing. He went
alone—the dog remained with the hagged shin-
bone, and yapped so fiercely at passers-by that at
last someone got curious, drove the animal away,
and carted the remains off to the police. That is
the story so far. But whose was the shinbone ?
And whose the dog, and whence and why ? Was
the bone the bone of the dog’s loved and mur-
dered master ? Or of the dog’s hated master
whom the dog murdered in revenge ? What' was
the connection between the dog and the bone ?
Was it really a dog—or was it a weird, dog-shaped
manifestation come mysteriously to indicate that
the bone was Man, not Cow ? Poe would have
known, but, unluckily, Poe is dead.
* * * *
“ Radio Active’s ” scornful words :
A garish light was cast on Sydney’s transport system
t he other day, when something stood on the ark over which
passes tiie horse tratfic between Dawes and Blue’s Points,
and caused the aged contraption to sink. The narrow lane
which leads to the pontoon soon became congested with
the carts of innumerable Chows and rabbit merchants,
whose language, on discovering what had occurred, smelt
as insanitary as their wares. Then a vast concourse of
drays, carts a,nd waggons streaked round Circular Quay
for Fort Macquarie. Within 20 minutes a queue of
vehicles stretched from the Fort Macquarie jetty to the
part of the Quay where the Jap liners berth. The Fort
Macquarie-Milson’s Point horse-punt claims to be fairly
modern (that is, it isn’t more than 25 years or so behind
the ferries); and it is equal to fully half the work required
of it on normal occasions. True, its reputation for punctu-
ality is constantly being blasted by the rush of ferry
steamers, while the frequent liner or tramp checks its pro-
gress for minutes at a time. But these are comparative
trifles. The situation created by the Dawes Point mishap
was really serious. Chaos loomed ; and no one reached
his destination less than two hours’ late. To a Yank or
Jap or other foreigner the idea of the transportation ser-
vice of a city of Sydney’s loud pretentions being stuck up
because of a wrecked pontoon would seem too absurd to
be credible. Yet, to Sydney itself, it is more than credi-
ble. It is an actual and painful experience.
# * * *
At Richmond (Vic.) one day last week
the Law fell with some suddenness on a man with
a “ stake in the
country.” The
Slid pole, rod or
perch consisted
of a mansion,
villa, cottage, or
something simi-
lar in a state of
raging disrepair.
Tnis the local
council, through
its healtli officer,
had condemned
over six months
ago, and the
owner had been
notified aCcord-
i igly. The owner,
nowever, was a
man of Thrift,
with little regard
for the law and
less for his ten-
ants, apparently ;
so he invested in
a bushel of white-
wash, a few rolls of
paper, half an acre of
paint and a gallon of
putty, and dolled up
the ancient rookery.
Then he let it to some
unfortunate, who either
couldn’t afford a sanitary
dwelling or didn’t know
that he wasn’t getting
one. The council, how-
ever, had kept its eye on
him, and, though slow,
was sure ; consequently,
the Law had no difficulty
in deciding to hand him
the minimum fine of 10s. per
day—£7l altogether. It didn’t
transpire in the course of pro-
ceedings whether this landlord
had lately raised the rent on account of the
Federal land-tax, but like enough he had. He
was the sort of landlord who would do things like
that.
* * * *
A Sydney restaurant which prints on the
menu cards the programme of music to be ren-
dered by the string band in attendance, the other
day got the food mixed with the music, and
.announced: “Soup without words: Mendelssohn.”
WITHIN THE DANGER
ZONE
“ Come on. Auntie, don't he frightened. See, it isn’t up to mother's knees.”
The Oldest Inhabitant roams around the
Queen’s Hall (Melbourne), now disappearing :
Up to 1554 the building in Bourke-street known after-
wards a« Tilke’s, and then as the Queen’s, was an “ eating
house ” (the “ restaurant ” was unknown in those days),
kept by Ainsworth and Ludnam. Tillte bought them out,
but his reign as a caterer was short. One day the cook
or some other kitchen authority accidentally put arsenic
into the soup instead of salt. Some 80 persons suffered,
but no fatality occurred, as all the near-at-hand medicos
were rushed in with their pumps. The mishap killed
Tilke’s as an eating house. Tilke then turned his atten-
tion to the music-hall business, having obtained a hotel
license as well. He engaged Charles Fry, who had
been managing music halls on the goldfields, and
Fry engaged a company which included some very
good singers. Charley Wright at that time had the
Union Hotel, the music-hall attached being variously
named the Canterbury and the Coliseum. He was also
the licensee of the Mistletoe Hotel, in Mackenzie-street,
near the gaol, where he lived and housed all his barmaids.
It was at Wright’s music-hall (a much lower grade affair
A TALL ORDER.
ASSISTANT (in music department): “ What can
Ido for you, mad' m?"
LADY: “"Sing Me to Sleep,' please."
than Tilke’s) that rolice-MagistvateDrummondinet Shires,
who professed to have a snake-poison antidote. Drum-
mond wished Shires to experiment upon him; but
Wright refused to allow it on his premises. Then Shires,
Drummond and others went to Garton’s Hotel, in
Swanston-street, where the experiment vvas carried Out.
Garton was at the theatre at the time. When he returned
he found a dead P.M. on the premises. Shires was tried
for manslaughter, but was acquitted.
* * * *
The departmental infamy, or inquiry, into
the great Richmond (Vic.) railway disaster has
finished. When that slaughter happened, the
Law laid its hand on as many of the minor officials
as there seemed a chance of con victing, and started
to investigate. Either the men or the system had
committed wholesale manslaughter, and the Law
wanted to find out things. It acquitted the men,
and thereby inferentially blamed the system.
Then the system, in the shape of a departmental
inquiry, appointed itself a judge, sat on the bench,
found most of the men guilty, and punished them
more pr less heavily. A great many people fancy
that the system would look better in the dock than
on the bench, but the blessed system is plainly of
a different opinion.
Beginning with this month, apprentices
and others under 16 years are being carried
over four sections of the Sydney tramway system
for'ld., provided they reach the tram tprminus in
the city by 8.30 a. m. But on the way home they
must pay full fare. So the long-promised con-
cession is but half a loaf after all. Logically,
of course, the refusal to extend the reduction to
the homeward-bound is indefensible; but the
reason at the back of it is the same old congestion
—and that, again, is mainly due to the fact that
the trams are straining to carry hundreds of thou-
sands of passengers who ought to be carried by
rail, and would be carried that way if there were
the lines to do it.
The world is again up against its biggest
problem. Pneumonic plague—said to be the most
virulent sample in the world’s history—has broken
out in China. Hardly anyone recovers from it,
and if it were met by the conditions of the Middle
Ages it would probably stalk on giant feet around
the earth and reduce the human race by one-half.
But when it gets within the sphere of European
influences it will be met by drainage, sanitation
and up-to-date medical devices. Also, medical
men are fleeing to the scene of battle to tackle it
on the spot. So, after all, the plague will probably
be knocked out in the second round, virulent
though it lie. It wasn’t thus in days of old.
One single plague wiped out between a third and
a half of the population of Europe—and it was
only one plague among many, though it was one
of the worst. If it had not been for these great
extinguishments the human race—supposing the
birth-rate kept up—would probably be buying
bread now at 10s. a crumb. Just consider the situa-
tion ! Last century the people of England dis-
covered how to fight epidemics with a certain
amount of success, and in that century the popu-
lation of England and Wales increased from some-
thing over 8,000,000 to 32,000,000. In other words,
during a single century the country raised three
times as manypeoDle (and thatdespite heavy emi-
grationjasithad previouslydonesince the Creation.
If sanitation and medical science had got to work
with equal success about the time of Edward the
Confessor, when the population was supposed to
be 2,000,000, and, if the birthrate had kept
to the recent level, England would now
have 512,000,000,000 inhabitants, which would
have been a wild absurdity. It would mean
more than 8,000,000 people to each square
mile, or over 10,000 to the acre. These figures
give an idea of the size of the problem
which man has in front of him unless the birth-
rate slumps in an amazing fashion, or unless
plague again gets ahead of medicine and sanita-
tion and periodically does a great wiping out of
humanity. It looks something like a problem.
PAINFUL RESULTS.
Marvellous results have been obtained with the new
drink cur e.—South Australian News Item.
A BLOKE: “ Bli’mc, mate, wot's ther matter with
old Tanka — he’s dr inkin’ water!"
ANOTHER: “My oath, it's a sad ease! They give
him the new drink cure, and it took away
his taste for beer but left him ’is thirst.”
Some of the talk about the Australian
Universities being open to “the poorest lads in
the community ”is piffle. For its simplest and
most elementary exam, the Melbourne University
makes the outrageous charge of 10s. entrance fee
and ss. for each subject. At the December exam,
the institution collected no less than £4600, of
which less than a third went to the examiners.
Worse even than these charges is that of 10s.
demanded for a report on an examination
paper. Should a candidate fail in, say, four sub-
jects, he or his parents must pay £2 to learn how,
why and where he went wrong. And some-
times, having put up the money, he finds
that he really didn’t go wrong at all. Recently,
when a candidate, reported as having failed in
arithmetic, forwarded his 10s. and asked for the
examiner’s report, he was told that “an unfortu-
nate error had been made,” and that he had
actually passed with distinction ! Possibly he
was the only one who had met with the accident
—and possibly he wasn’t. The same University
demands £1 Is. fora certificate of matriculation —
a piece of paper worth commercially about fid.
Universities like London and Glasgow send the
successful candidate his piece of parchment with-
out asking a penny ; apparently Melbourne Uni.
wants to make its diplomas more costly, even if it
can’t make them more valuable.
THE SWAMPED LOCALIST AND THE BUSTED
ANNIVERSARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What has become of the British Flag?
One hundred and twenty-three years ago to-day the
British flag was hoisted at the spot now known as
Macquarie-place. To.day, despite the heavy rain, I
walked to Macquarie-place to pay my respect to the flag,
but the flag was not hoisted. The flagpole was there,
and I was there, but no flag was flying. If there is one
day in the year upon which the flag should be flying, I
think that is upon Anniversary Day.—-Letter in Sydney
D. T. after the recent deluge.
Ere the first filtered beams of sullen dawn
Broke through the streaming rain-clouds, thick and
grey,
The drowsy burgher grumbled with a yawn,
“A soggy day!”
Each choking rain-pipe slobbered to its drain ;
The cheerless wind, like some wet-footed ghost,
Rushed ev’rywhere, escorting squalls of rain,
And playing host.
Through rain-splashed glasses on an eminence
The Half- Pay Cynic peered. I heard him say :
“ This is—those dripping flags are evidence—
A holiday !
“ How quaint it is that each suburban flock
Will plot a picnic and with surety say,
‘ Next Thursday week, at half-past twelve o’clock
We will be gay ! ’
“ Once I, too, loved my Empire and my Flag,
And each event which gave to me a day
Whereon I might leave Work—that ugly hag—
Yet draw my pay,
“ I honored well my nation’s natal day
And other busy days by knocking off;
Show me the Flag and I would shout ‘ Hooray ! ’
And my hat doff.
“ A word against the Flag and I would be—
Red as a fresh-boiled lobster, and as hot;
The world I thought would recognise in me
A patriot.
“ I would walk miles upon the wettest day
To see the sodden Flag flap in the breeze ;
The Throne, I thought, must hear, though far away.
My loyal sneeze.
“ But one wet year—let Ili-tory attest! —
I came upon a flagpole lank and bare;
The long, white length of wood was quite undressed !
No Flag was there 1
“The outrage shocked me to my inmost soul;
I wrote the Press a note of loyal brag,
Saying I had attended, with the pole—
Where was the Flag ?
“ I waited for the tumult. There was none !
No one cried ‘ Shame ! ’ or danced a Highland Fling !
At last I realised the truth. No one
Had read the thing !
“ My sense of humor sprouted then, I think ;
Thenceforward I tried hard to be sincere ;
And nowanights I never mix up ink
With supper beer.”
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


/Vo 2
///e ~/*j)o\ hny‘s
7 TiE Doctor ‘s
( n ol ,
" L Wo MT A/urT
ye "
/ TIJE /SoSP'Tf/tL A/Uf&t \s
' /f
"If rr A .
Ik
\S,
OHi)j N
y
s
//(fel/XefPeß s
p> {r o qesrj 'fte
/S AT/#r ahT)I TPou^trTyoo
, 0/}T To A'W IT "
I VH V L ~ R w ,
DetSs Dore a/s/' v i'll Pull ve js
jT T 3 ur Pont TritUK yEK ozuc,h to
Junior Pocroß umuuWNPS To TrIAT
{%„
) >h 4mv r I
\ V 1
Mine
f 0
No^JtAynf-
$uT I /^; N r <}otßoom FoR No
Frok\ youß Di)r t F(J^
1 tjop's
THE BEDSIDE MANNER— (By “Hop's” Understudy.)


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [4
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
We stock a very large
variety of designs.
Blue-White Diamonds,
£2l.
Choice Diamonds and
Whole Pearl, £l2/12/-
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Ring's, Pendants and Jewellery generally, at prices
never before attempted in Australia.
"WHY ? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have
to live up to it; and so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures.'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Tracker”; The strange animal which
“ Pat O’Maofi ” recently met (B, 12/l/’ll) is the
rni&eiietn. Although rarely seen in herds, mobs
or fiocksj it has been met with in different parts
of Australia, The only one that ever attacked trie
was about 250 yards outside Mildura, whilst I was
removing some annoying green rats and multi-
colored tadpoles from one of the clubs. It was
similar in size to Pat’s specimen, and made a
noise like a piece of cheese. 1 understand
O’Maori saw his animal at a gypsy tea near
Double Bay. It was evidently making its way
down from Bourke. I couldn’t say whether they
slime Souter’s cats or resemble their young, but
have heard they live on politicians, bookmakers
and other earthworms. Am not surprised that
.Mr. O’Maori didn’t strike a match. When my
specimen rushed at me I put my hand in my
pocket for matches, and brought out a handful of
red eels with feathers on them. As a rule, the
beast stands about two yards in front of you,
grinning for about a minute, then dashes through
your legs and gets behind you. For agility the
tiger is George Reid to it. P.S. —It generally has
one ear in its mouth.
* » * *
“Karel”: Queerest Crusoe I’ve ever
struck was a' widow, who owned one of the
numerous Wide Bay islands. She hardly ever
saw a white face, but lived happily with 200 odd
pet goats, which answered to their names and
were allowed the freedom of her humpy/ When
any of them “ took sick ” she had them in her
room until they died, when she buried them and
put crosses on their graves. She had, two or
three children who were not allowed to talk
“rudely ” to the goats or speak disrespectfully of
the old ’uns in the young ’uns’ presence. Last
time I went shooting on the island the humpy
had disappeared, though a dozen or so rude crosses
still remained, with names attached ; so I sur-
mised the old Crusoe had pegged out another
selection.
* * * *
“ Marloo” : Me and Joe Heffer’s been in
Sydney on our first visit. Hav’n reached the
Post orfis I prerposed a shave. Hav’n spotted a
shaven shop Joe says, “ You go in
there. I’ll find another, sos we won’t
hafter wate. Droppen my case out
of the story, I will proseed. Havin’
got clear of the shop I went to
look for Joe. When I found him
the boss barber was runnen a tape
over his head. On the way to the
Corfee Palis I asked Joe what the
guy was doin to his nadgit. In re-
spons Joe handed me a reseat on
which was rote “Deposit on wig,
£l.” “Blime!” I sed ; “wot yer
cummin at?” Joe then explaned.
“I lade back in the chair and the
cove starts shaven me,” he says.
“ He was a good sort of a bloke and
kept chatten frendly all the time.
He was wipen me after the shave
and says ‘ H lir cut, sir ? ’ I went to
say ‘No,’but the towl just liappend
to be over me mouth and he muster
thort I said yes, hecos he said,
‘Right, sir,’ and had the shears inter
me head befor I could speelt, so I let
him go. Then he remarked that me
skalp was a bit dirty and rekond a
mederkated shampoo would clean it
and freshen me up wunderful.
Bein’ a bit ashamed I said nothin,
and he had the soap outer me. Then
he said the rest of me hair was failin’
out and a sinj wood stop it. I thort
he woodent charge me sep’rate”—
and then Joe handed out the follerin
from his pokits—l brush and coam, I
saftey razer, 1 tooth brush and paste,
1 bottel each of hair oil, kosmetic,
hair restorer, 2 cakes fancy sope.
Totel cost, including deposit on wig,
£1 15s. 9d. “What did yer bye all
them things for ? ” I asked. Then Joe opened out.
“Bye the things! I never arsked the for
one of the tilings. The pushed them
outer me, and I coodent stop the .” P.S.—
Joe never called for the wig, bein’ erfraid the
barber mite sell him the shop, Joe havin’ no use
for it. P.P.S. —I got clear of my cove for 12s. 9d.
“ Cunbridge ” : The Bulletin isn’t large
enough to hold all I would like to say about din-
goes, but I’d be glad to have a little “ wongy ” con-
cerning some of the characteristics of the brutes.
I have destroyed dingoes —many of them in
N.S.W., Q., S. A. and W.A. ; and I have caught
the pups and nurtured; them till they became de-
cent dogs, as well behaved as any other dog while
I had my eye on them, but I found that you only
had to forget to give dingo his meals for one day to
bring out all his ancestral evil and cunning. Die
dingo knows nearly as much devilment as a crow
—not quite so much, for there’s nothing on earth
that knows as much villainy as a crow, unless,
maybe, it’s a Bourke-street rat. Of courage he
has plenty when he is forced to show it;
but, like most undomesticated canines, he
prefers to win on points. He will attack a lone
man who is helpless, and he always knows
when the chap is helpless; you can’t fool him by
pretence. A dingo was driven away from the
warm corpse of a “dried up” man on the Gas-
coyne (W. A.), and the ground-marks showed the
man had not been quite dead when attacked;-
This was told me; I do not vouch for it, but I
believe it, for I know the dingo. A big dingo dog
caged at the Melbourne Zoo, a brute that used* to
fawn upon and play with his keeper, suddenly
and without the slightest warning savagely
attacked the man while he stooped in the cage to
pick up a broom. The dingo leaped upon his
back and seized him by the neck. The man got
out, hut the dog, knowing he was marked, threw
off his hypocrisy, and became a ferocious, sullen
brute, always waiting for a chance to snap. This
can be vouched for by Mr. Le Souef. Another, on
the Drysdale River (Kimberley, W.A.), in 1888,
came right into my camp and tackled my dog, a
smooth-haired collie and a noted fighter, and very
nearly killed him before J could use a bullet.
On the same river, in the same year, during a
tremendous thunderstorm, two dingoes got into
a brush yard containing a flock of sheep.
Hearing constant rushing of the sheep, I got out
of my bunk, and by the flashes of lightning saw
the dogs running over the backs of the tightly
wedged sheep,, snapping and ripping as they ran.
In the morning 40 of the sheep lay dead and
dying, all bitten through the spine. The brutes
had burrowed in through the wool to the back-
bone in sheer wantonness. The jaws of a dingo
can cut like garden-shears ; when two fight, one
usually kills the other. I saw such a finish fight
on the Diamantina (Q.), and had the satisfaction
of scalping the winner.
# # * #'
“ Montalox ” : “ Jamble ” (B. 12/1/11)
says, touching the unidentifiable illness of one
of his pupils: “Snake experts in the locality
affirm that, unless the bite of a carpet snake be
carefully treated, the poison will get into the
system,” etc. Well, the bite of a carpet snake,
like the bite Of any other animal—man included
—might produce blood-poisoning ; but this poor
lad evidently wasn’t thus affected.: And, in any
case, the carpet snake carries no venom. Again
and again I have dissected the head to demon-
strate to unbelievers that it contains neither
poison sac nor tunnelled teeth ; but the axiom
that “seeing is believing” merely shatters itself
uselessly against the average Billjim’s plate-armor
of preconception.
* * * *
“Dan Lloyd”: I can sympathise with
“Gip ”dn her outburst against the attacks of ants.
For the past month in camp my mate and I have
been fighting 1,285,052,186 ants with sticks, stones,
kerosene, ’possum tails, rags, fur, 16 drums of
boiling water, fire, brimstone, curses and blue
smithereens, all of which failed signally. As a
last resource we put the legs of the table (the ant
general’s objective) in four tins of water, and de-
parted to work. That evening when we returned,
150 battalions had camped on the roof of the table,
and the others were on their way. This is how they
crossed the water. A small piece of box leaf, had
blown into one of the tins and was utilised as a
raft. Several of the creepers embarked at a time,
the last man aboard giving a shove-off that drove
the pontoon to the other side bfvthe tin. The
final man gave the conveyance a boost back, and
so the game went on. I removed the lifeboat and
replaced the water in the tins with sheep-dip.
Haven't seen an ant since.
STILL FAITHFUL.
SUFFRAGETTE : “Are you faithful to the Cause?”
BLINKY JANE: “Cause o’ what, mum! Ho, me
eye! Yuss, I am, though it’s more’n he
deserves.”
THE SIMPLE SAVAGE.
BOSS (angrily): "Look here, you Hack scoundrel. I gate you 10 bob too much lust week, and
when I asked you if it was all right you said ‘Yes.’ ”
BILLY (cheerfully): “By cripes, that been all right for me, Boss,”
Urgent cry for help :
A very high gum-tree about half-way between
Enngonia and'Yant.abtilla, 1011.
Dear Bulletin,.—There has been some rain here, and
I’m in a devil of a fix. I was making for Enngonia when
the downpour commenced. It was evening, and I was
eating a bit of tucker after arranging my tent. It rained
3?j inches in four hours. I was lying in my tent, when I
felt myself surrounded by a soft moving mass. I lighted
a match, and horror 1 The rabbits were, leaving their
holes in myriads. The rain had done its work. They
soon began to run over me. 1 To avoid suffocation I had
to get up arid climb into the branches of a tree —my pre-
sent address. When morning came, the ground was
covered to a depth of 4ft. by rabbits. I climbed
to the summit of my tree (which is 613 ft. in
height), and as far as the eye could reach a
billowy sea of rabbits extended. About 200 yards to the
north-west was a flock of sheep, struggling, moving
up and down, and sometimes disappearing for a time, like
the surf-bathers at Ooogee. I have since lost sight of
them. I think they have been drowned in the rabbits.
After some time I became hungry, but had nothing to
eat; so I picked up a rabbit and killed it. I tried to
make a fire, but was carried off my feet by a current of
rabbits. So I ate my rabbit raw, and raw rabbit has been
my food ever since.
I attempted to proceed on my journey one day, but the
currents were so uncertain and irregular that after six
hours’ hard work I hadn’t got above 10 yards from my
tree. Then I abandoned the idea.
I don’t know how long I’ve been here. It seems years,
although in reality it is probably only a few weeks.
Likely I’ll never get away from this spot. Stiil there
seems yet a gleam of hope. If the editor has an aero-
plane, please send it at once. My tree will be easily
known by the inscription I have carved in large letters
on its bark:-
“ God Save Wade.”
If you have no agroplane then you might get the editor
of the Sunday Times to send me a Boy Scout. He is
almost certain to get me out of my trouble.
I get this letter to you by the mercy of Providence.
Last night, about the time when churchyards yawn, a
bronzewing pigeon perched on a branch beside me. I
caught it and tied my letter under its wing. I hope it
will be delivered safely. If so, please tie the following
articles to the pigeon and return to me ; they will make
the last days of my miserable existence more endurable:
1 bottle milk (diluted with water).
1 packet lollies.
Yours in despair, O.
# * * *
“ W.C.M.” ; “ Ttan ” (B. 5/l/’ll) accuses
the good seasons of killing out the saltbush in the
Far West (N.S.W.), and pleads for a drought to
liven up the vegetable. I don’t believe any jury
would find the good seasons guilty. Four things
have helped to seriously damage the bush : (1) In
1910 a grub attacked the saltbush and killed some
of it; and (2) caterpillars did the rest (Cannon
station, near Hay, lost thousands.of acres last year);
(3) then there is the gradual extermination of most
of our insectivorous birds, due to bunny ; (4) over-
stocking. This last is very serious, considering
there are millions more sheep in N.S.W. than
ever before. Illiliwa - station, near Hay, bad
several thousand acres of saltbush, but the 1902
drought and the over-stocking killed it out, and
now the paddocks show only scanty grass and
herbage. True,.we are not doing anything to pre-
serve this invaluable pasture, which, while ex-
tremely hardy, seldom grows again when once
.killed right out. America is importing annually
large quantities of saltbush seed ,to grow in the
dry places, and surely it is up to Australia to pre-
serve what saltbush there is rather than, at some
future date, have to send a cheque across to the
Yanks for it.
“Sfcarf” : A few days ago Rarely Sweat
Roger lurched into the Globe Hotel at Went-
worth and accosted Mayor Atkinson: “Could
y’ lend a sport a Couple-a-quid, governor ?” The
local potentate didn’t wish to lend such a sum to
a stranger, and said as much. “ Well, I’ve got a
shilling. Could y’ lend us another, an’ I’ll wire
t’ me cobber, Sid Kidman ? He’ll lend it t’ me.
I uster be drovin’ fer him a bit ago.” The mayor
loaned the desired coin, and, under dictation,
drafted the wire :
Sid Kidman, Broken Hill. Please wire me two pounds.
Reply paid. Roger Scott, Wentworth.
Three hours later the reply arrived :
Roger Scott, Wentworth. Which way are the fis >
going—up or down ? S. Kidman.
And yet they say these bushmen can’t put things
delicately.
A PASSING ACQUAINTANCESHIP.
JIM: “'Ad anythink to eat to-day, Bill?"
BILL: “Just passsed dinner, thanks, Jim."
“Climax”: The native bear is fast be-
coming only a memory in West and South-West
Queensland. Four or five years ago—before his
pelt became marketable —he could be found in
hundreds up and down the Warrego; but now
one mighttrayel for months and never see him even
singly, except in captivity. I reckon the time is
ripe for the formation of the Australian Union of
Patriotic Two-legged Blokes for the Protection
of Decent Australian Four-legged'and Bi-winged
Coves. The Bulletin could be the registered
office of the union, and motions could be moved
without notice by any member with a waddy or a
brickbat.
THE SLEEPER-CUTTER’S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Yes, Mister, strike
Me ’taint a lie,
Said Tim the Tike,
Of Marthaguy
Who earned his daily damper down
Near Gil (a sleeper-cutters’ town).
I’ve travelled far
But round Gular
The champion thieves of timber are !
\Ve watched ’em tot
A fortnight, but
They still got more
'N half we cut;
And so one night we made a heap
Of lovely logs, and went to sleep
Upon the top,
Resolved to cop
The carrion fairly on the hop.
Next morning, though,
We still were on
The top, you know,
Them logs was gone;
For, while we’re dreaming in the dark,
They’d shoved them all from out the bark.
Yes, strike me blind 1
And left behind
Three idiots roosting on the rind !
HY. E. HORNE.


Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh —unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
th; delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache, .... ,
and Indigestion, as millions Know.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
Carters
L
'ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
PTAN (
Weare Born to
offer Benefits
The insurance office
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office—
203 George St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly against
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Stoekfeld \
H. S. Doherty /
Joirjt
Managers.
Speechless with Wonder
Are the friends of those relieved of indigestion,
and all stomach troubles, by Dr. Sheldon’s Diges-
tive Tabules. Price 2s. Gd. per tin.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
“C.V.E.”: Agree with “ Chloe ” (B.
5/1/’11) as to the grit of the pearling masters of
the Nor’-West. Captain Coe, Alf Locke, Old
Captain Biddles, Skipper Brown, Pa Norman (of
Robinson and Norman, Limited), Ted Hunter
and Archie Male (of Streeters and Co.) are
among the “others ” hinted at by “Chloe.” Old-
timers these, who deserve every credit for uphold-
ing the dignity of the white race during the early
days of Nor’-West pearling. Also, it is mainly
owing to their methods of handling the alien
crews and divers that the industry has reached its
present standard. Few people who read about
the game have any idea vvliat a miserable, God-for-
saken one it is, especially on a one-man boat.
Tucker up for three months, shake hands all
round, and off outside ; and for 13 weeks you stew
in the cabin or dog-box, or frizzle on deck ; not a
soul to talk to (your literature is generally cut out
the first week); your only excitement the opening
of shell, with a strong but generally blasted hope of
striking the elusive pearl. The diver shares the
cabin with you (it ruins discipline if he is boxed
up with the crew); also the shell, when cleaned,
is packed under the cabin floor. So with the heat,
the smell of diver, decayed shell and bilge water,
tinned tucker and no pearls, is it any wonder that
none but the best stick to the game and work it
to a finish ?
* * * *
“ Eddyson ” : During the festive goose-
season a party consisting largely of the Willough-
by clan and the Figg family went out from Mel-
bourne in caravans to enjoy gypsy simplicity and
bucolic peace in the wild woods of South Gipps-
land. The party penetrated into the primeval
wilderness, and pitched its tents. But quite early
in the pilgrimage two of the picnic went missing,
and the lamentations of the remainder were loud
in the land. The absentees weie Mrs. Willough-
by and Mr. Figg. It was assumed that the lost
had drifted into the scrub country, and search
parties were organised, headed by a couple of
experts from the nearest settlement. A harrow-
ing time followed. Poor Willoughby is natur-
ally a plump man with inefficient feet,
and battling with scrub and man-hunting
in the big timber for two days and nights, with
little sleep and small nourishment, took it out of
him to so woeful an extent that he was reduced to
a mere tatterdemalion and a shadow of his former
self. The strain so told on Mrs. Figg that she
had to be removed, and returned to her home in
Melbourne. Coming in with his party at noon on
the third day, in a state of collapse, Willoughby
found a telegram waiting him. It was from Mrs.
Figg. It read : “No cause for alarm. Your wife
eloped with my husband.”
* * * *
“ Gil Gunnia ” : The kookaburra receives
mv support against “ Pick’s ” soldier bird for the
best feathered friend in the Australian bush, for
the following reasons
(1) Ilis hilarious optimism.
(2) He never yets away with the seed after sowing.
(3) He is sudden and permanent dealh on things crawl-
ing.
(4) Not only does he give warning of snakes in the
vicinity of the house or fowl residence, but he provides
the remedy free, gratis and for nothing.
(5) He never touches the fruit ; also, he refuses to
allow sparrows and similar pests to invade the orchard.
(6) Unlike the soldier bird, his familiarity does not breed
contempt or even inconvenience ; you can leave the daily
damper beside the open window and he never infringes
the sacred rights s'fc'jpropputy.
Kindly forward the medal to Gum Tree Top,
Australia.
“BEAUTIFUL SCENERY, AIN'T IT?"
A BUSH DETECTIVE.
JIMBILL (after the play): " Yer know that Murderin' bloke uot jumped over the olift a fore
yer could shoot 'im?"
THE HERO: "Yes."
J IMBILL (impressirely):"Well, I KNOW WHERE HE'S STOPPIN'!"
“Geofred”: “Scapegoat” (B. 5/1/11)
wants to hear of the bravest bird. Well, how
about the common black and white magpie. I’ll
nominate him, second him and carry him unani-
mously, whether tame or wild. A tame magpie
may lose some of his saifageness, but of his brave-
ness he loses none. I remember, in Forbes
(N.S.W.) a few years ago, climbing a tree in
which a Mr. and Mrs. Magpie had built their
home, and were busily intent on estimating the
cost of bringing up a
young family. I never
got anywhere near that
nest. Mr. and Mrs.
made repeated dives at
me until, after two or
three such attacks, I
climbed down and apolo-
gised. But those mag-
pies were out for gore.
They followed me for
at least 200 or 300
yards, pecking at my
head and squealing all
the time. That was
the wild bird. For the
tame brand, a magpie
I met in Rockhampton
(Q.) was a fair speci-
men of bravery. This
bird had a great habit
of yelling, “Who’re
you ?” to every man,
woman, child or dog
that entered the gate.
One day he threw this
insulting remark at a
fox terrier slut with
results such as a man
unhappily sees too sel-
dom. For the ensuing
fight was like two imps
of the Devil battling
for the lightweight
championship of Ge-
henna. At the .end *of
four rounds the dog
suddenly remembered
an appointment round
the corner,' and left
amidst the hoots of my-
self and Maggie.
* ‘ *
“Supple Jack”: I
protest against this ap-
parently everlasting
mud-slinging at the cow-
cookies in Australia. I knoiv them, which is a
qualification seemingly not possessed by large
quantities of Alio writers, and I can recommend
them (the cockies, not the writers) as men of grit,
perseverance and intelligence equal to any class
of the community. And. you take it from me,
when the dav comes that Australia cries her sons
forward to save her life, the cow-cocky won’t be
fined for being late. He'll be there amongst the
first, and those who remain longer won’t do it
from choice. They’ll be too dead to have a say.
“ L.H.” : “Chloe” (8.29/12/10) maybe
right about emus sitting, and then again she may
not. As far as observations go at present, Mr.
Emu apparently sits by day. At any rate, it is the
old man that is generally flushed from the nest
during the daytime. Whether the female sits at
night is not known ; and Abo observers who are
in a position to And out might turn their attention
to this point. It seems likely, if we may judge by
analogy with the ostrich, that Mrs. E. takes little
part in the incubation. With the ostrich the male
sits at night, as “Chloe” says; but, though the
females fool round the nest all day, it is more as a
bodyguard, as they do little incubating. A male
emu has been known to hatch and rear five chicks,
when the female had been killed before the laying
was finished. And it was an eight weeks’ job too.
**■ * *
“ Austra Litera”: Mention by “Monta-
lex” (B. 29/12/10) of “the hugest of fresh water
fishes, the arapaima of Brazil, weighing some-
times 4001 b.,” recalls the recent capture at
Maclean. Clarence River (N.S.W.), of a Queens-
land groper which weighed over;7oolb. Speci-
mens well on to 5001 b. area mere circumstance on
the Clarence. Strictly speaking, the fish is not
a groper, but is a member of the cod family.
Anyhow, that is what the scientists say ; though
personally I opine that it'belongs to the elephant
family. Not long ago a fisherman hitched his line
to a plough on the Maclean wharf, and during his
absence to get a pint of bait, a water mammoth
grabbed the line and piillwt the plough overboard.
This might seem exaggeration, but it isn’t. I saw
the furrow the plough made in the water.
* * ■* *
“ Yarrum ” : Casey had typhoid, and-the
doctor had a nurse up from Sydney. 1 called
round the other afternoon know how Casey was
doing. “Doin’, is ut ! ” said the old woman.
“ The divvle I care ! Whin I goes in to him, he
turns his face to the wall; but whin nurse goes in
—ach, the sickenin’smoile av him !” I came away
then. Casey was doing all right.
* * * *
“Quail”: Who says civilisation doesn’t
appeal to Black Brother ? Some years ago a
number of white men at Crescent Lagoon (N.T.)
hanged a Binghi for killing a Chow. A number
of the murderer's friends and relations witnessed
the execution. It was the first hanging they had
ever seen, and they were so pleased with it that
they subsequently brought along two of the tribe
who had broken some Binghi law and asked the
white men to repeat the show.
**' * *
“ M.V.” : “ J.T.T.” courteously inquires
what the “ rousie ” has to do with the wet sheet)
question, as he has no vote on the question and
never had (B. 5/1/11). What makes “ J.T.T.” so
dense? Has he newer been in a hut, or heard of
“moral suasion,” or listened to “ rousies ”
croaking, “ Quart pot, quart pot,” “Can’t swim,
can’t swim,” or seen them pretending to find
frogs in the wool, and so on ? Has he never seen
a “rousie” “jobbed” over wet sheep by a
shearer, or vice versa'! In fact, has “J.T.T.
been “out” these last 13 years?
That amazingly unreliable individual, the
parson, has been at it again—in England tins
time. The strong point about the parson is that
when he has an end to serve he invents his evi-
dence as he goes along. Also, he invents it very
badly, but to his simple, childlike mind it looks
convincing. He doesn’t give the names and
addresses of his witnesses. He usually avoids
dates. He often, though not always, refuses to
give the location of his alleged, episode. Thus,
when he is on the teetotal racket, he is prone to
rise up suddenly and declare that he and two
friends stood at midnight outside one of the largest
and most brilliantly lighted pubs in Sydney—
the same being open at that hour contrary
to the law —and saw 45 children come out in a
state of hopeless intoxication. Or, if he is on the
Orange Lodge racket, he rushes to the front with
a tale of a Protestant girl trying to escape from a
convent, and how she stood on the convent wall
facing a busy street for a whole hour on a Satur-
day night and screatiled for assistance, but failed
to attract anybody’s attention. That kind of
parson isn’t the least abashed when it is pointed
out that there is no convent in the locality speci-
fied—only an advertisement hoarding; nor does
he abate his dignity one shred when he can neither
produce his midnight pub or a single one of
the 45 drunken children. A certain moral sense
which makes a decent citizen object to being
bowled out is not in him. The English parson
who has just made a slight sensation is less start-
ling than some of his class ; still, he is interesting
in his way. Iiumor has jt that he approached the
Agents-General with some scheme or other for the
wholesale shipping of unemployed to Australia,
and when his plan was turned down he boiled
over and started to say things. His chief allega-
tion is that 30 per cent, of the domestic servants
who come to Australia become fallen women,
which shows either great research on his part
among fallen women, or a great imagination. But
the quaintest feature of his yarn is the picture he
draws of the Australian bush pub : —
Suppose a girl had been sent to service in a farmhouse,
and left, where was she to go to? Did they know the
kind of small hotel the “ pubs ” of the Australian town-
ship were? Did theyknow what kind of people went in
and out of such places? lie had been told by an Aus-
tralian of a public house vfithin two miles of his estaie
where not only were those who went provided with
drink, but, an enormous number of low women were kept
there. ? ' «*■
Anybody can see that pub with his mind’s eye.
It is the ordinary wayside house on the long,
dusty track that Billjim is wont to travel. It
lies in any part of no address is
given—probably it lies all over Australia. There
are, as usual, the sunburnt landlord and his
almost equally sunburnt wife, who do the work
with some assistance from the sunburnt kids.
So far it is a falniliar enough picture. And
then, by way of a wild foreign element,
there are 24' painted Flossies sitting in a
row on the verandah, and looking dully out
on the unpeopled plains. They earn practically
nothing, for there is too much Delilah and mighty
little Samson, and they are a fearful strain on the
landlord’s beer and corned beef. Possibly there
are even 36 of them—anyhow, they repre-
sent an “enormous number.” There is some-
thing unreal about the narrative. The writer
has evidently assumed off-hand that there are
halls of gilded sin at One Horse Flat, with-
out ever seeing the place. He doesn’t know
the scarcity of women—good, bad or indifferent —
Outback, and the comparative frequency of pubs.
Apart from the landlord’s own family, they are
mostly bachelor pubs, neither a Jezebel nor a
Mary Ann being procurable. And if a Jezebel
was brought there by any possible chance she
would make shocking remarks about (1) the
scenery, (2) the beer, (3) the cooking, (4) the hard
beds, (5) the hard furniture, (6) the dust, heat,
water scarcity and lack of amusement. Then (7)
she would depart amid a cloud of curses for the
city and her old haunts.
NOT HIS FAULT.
FARMER: “I notice that there milking cow I
bought yesterday is blinking well dry.”
NEW HAND : “ Well , Mister , I'll take vie oath I
give ’er a drink only this morning."
“ Leo Lear The impedimenta that man
scatters over the surface of things must puzzle the
wild life of the bush. Lately I have watched a
kingfisher contemplating the water in an open-
topped lOOOgal. tank. Every day for an hour or
so the bird sits on the rim, with his head on one
side, gazing plaintively down into the water foi
the meal that never comes. The little fellow is
fairly taken in. If some Yassberra advocate will
forward me a Cotter River cod, I will liberate it
in the tank, and the bird’s joy will be marvellous
to behold. Better send the river with the coo,
and I’ll fill the tank right up.


Two wier> were a/r-e %rkd
; n
for rwJicwlino
j„4 hobble s K*rf~
‘ - I
* HoHle
VNV ,/ i ' X ===== ~ ,
/" j • \ < "a of mo«iCj\l £ff>ei'ts
Vtoy JoU /^ rr */.( < ayUustiJty
S lmit v/b«n I $o %W for $1 Coron&on -
“Disgusted” writes:—The Rev.
Mr. Spurr was right when he said
that we live in an age marked by
lack of veneration. The aged are not
treated with deference; and parents
are addressed with rudeness. The
lives of such people may be com-
mercially a success, but morally are
a failure, because “ the eye that
mocketh at his father, and despiseth
to obey his mother, the ravens of
the valley shall pick it out, and the
young eagle shall eat it.”
2 1
,i\
\l?e ■ } s
V/
K°t
Ovr b»r«nT&l C°"vnV»H . The Goo* 6«oK
~ "The eye -ft**"wK**> «•*
-j& Of-wo «f«y f” c<
owl l « B „r lM»1"g«'»'* kr Billy Jones
~*°bl&f K giving l>un one b^c-K.
Wonthaggl, on
Wednesday night, an *_
attempt was made to form a social club.
The meeting, however, ended in a fiasco.
The proceedings were stormy; several of
those present wanting to fight.— News*
. asS+ic WooH
ov We II Soor. hy*y
C o 'totfyr
HUMAN BONE AS BAROMETER.
A Human bone, supposed to be one of
the forearms of an adult, was discovered
by Mr. B. Baxter early in December. He
evidently thought little of the discovery,
as he had the bone hanging in the back
verandah of his house, and used it as a
barometer. It was noticed that the
bone changed color when an altera*
tion in the weather was ap-
proaching.
Sick Wife.'- youll
Iq nvy bones beside
/poor CtesTdk i n
l itble oraya.,
John f
Practical John (erfo'oly
<lcw — "fte bones bw'P'
one. Iv/ill Keef> your le[ f"
Shoulder blitde -for &
b&roine'fer.
Aws!" S s+eps
you -td.Ken %Z
'TtmTory J
PLAQUE IN CHINA.
The Chinese Government is alarmed at
the spread ol the plague in the northern
provinces. It has Issued a circular to
the Powers, asking that experts be sent
to investigate the disease.
ffej °f
\
' —
0 , '?£> IC i <jm >
rve Oi*+~ op r»gf
HoW
THE MELBOURNE OMELETTE.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
Trade Hart
AND <
m
Outdoor Workers
Cooling
Refreshing
Thirst Quenching
PERSONAL
ITEMS
They breed some strenuous women on the
iron-brensted west coast of Maoriland’s south
island. Recently one of them, a Miss Mclntosh,
reached Ikuru at daybreak on a Friday morning,
in time to see the boat for Hokitiki cross the bar.
She wanted particularly to get to Hokitiki by
that boat, so she immediately set off to intercept
it at Bruce Bay, 60 miles distant. Three changes
of horse saw her over the rough road and frequent
fords, and she caught her ship. Two mere males,
who started with her, let her finish alone. What
her horses thought of the journey is not recorded.
William Kifcher, just dead in London, was
Adelaide’s big butcher, and a solid citizen of the
rare type which will work hard as city councillor
and alderman for years, and then refuse the frills
of mayoralty when his turn comes. He was the
first butcher in Adelaide to use a refrigerating
plant, the first shopkeeper to instal electricity,
and the first man to build with reinforced concrete
on a large scale. Charity was his strong suit.
For years he gave all the meat needed by the
Children’s Home. In the distressful ’Bo’s he ran
a soup-kitchen of his own, and on a London visit
he collected and fed 1000 waifs at once. He was
a born butcher, and proud of it. During his final,
and fatal, visit to London (his birthplace), he
wrote out to Adelaide that England might be
able to build Dreadnoughts, but she couldn’t
make a decent sausage !
ADVERTISING AT THE CORONATION.
“The population of London at the time of the Corona-
tion will be something like ten millions of people,” re-
marked a gentleman who was present at the Coronation
of King Edward nine years ago. “It will be the finest and
greatest, national advertising medium possible,” he went
on, “and I should like to see Australia worthily repre-
sented there.” —Sydney TELEGRAPH.
If we are going to advertise at all, let us secure
the best space available.
Some February birthdays. Bishop Delaney
(Tas.), 58 on the Ist; G. Swinburne (Vic.), 50, ex- J-
Prime Minister Allan McLean, 71, and Malcolm
Fraser (W. A.), 54, on the 3rd ; Dr. G. E. Morri-
son (China), 49 on the 4th ; R. R. Garran, 44, and
B. R. Wise, 53, on the 10th ; Bishop Donaldson
(Q.), 48, and .1. M. Chanter, M.H.R., 06, on the
11th ; ex-President Gould, 64, E. H. Wittenoom
(W.A.), 57, J. J. Duncan (S. A. Tory leader), 66,
on the 12th; Speaker Davies (Tas.), 65, and
“Banjo” Paterson, 47, on the 17th ; O. C. Beale,
61 on the 22nd ; Under-Treasurer Gill (S.A.). 62,
Judge Molesworth (Vic.), 69, on the 23rd ; Prof.
Peterson, 50, Editor Schuler (Age), 58, Judge
Rogers (N.S.W.), 70, on the 24th; High Com-
missioner Reid, 66, and Meteorologist Barrachi
(Vic.), 60, on the 25th.
The Melbourne committee which has in
hand the publication of a volume of Marie E. J.
Pitt’s democratic poems, is going ahead as soon as
200 more subscribers at 3s. 6d. a volume shall
send in their names. Bernard O’ Dowd (Box 33,
Melbourne G.P.0.) is as good a person to send
the name to as anybody ; and if the 3s. 6d. is
fastened on to the name somehow, it won’t be
taken as an insult.
In the ’Bo’s Compagnoni’s Restaurant, in
Pitt-street, Sydney, was the leading eating-house
in the city and the rendezvous of the rank and
fashion of the time. The proprietor was an en-
thusiastic chess-player, and the restaurant was
the home of the famous Sydney Chess Club of
years ago. At its prime the S.C.C. wouldn’t
hesitate to toast its victories in champagne. Com-
pagnoni, who retired long ago, was a terrible vic-
tim to insomnia, the result of heart disease. On
Anniversary Night he played chess with an old
friend. Even his beloved game could not induce
sleep. He rose from the board quite calmly, but
in the morning was found shot through the brain.
J. W. Holliman, the little man who bosses
N.S.W. Treasury, is to have a Coronation trip at
the public expense; he is to travel as financial
adviser to McGowen. and is expected to add his
blandishments to McGowen’s bluff oratory in the
efforts to bite Cohen’s ear. Holliman is a lucky
public servant. Controller of Accounts George
Boyce is officially rated as financial adviser at
the Treasury; but Joke Carruthers hanked
Holliman from the comparatively humble
secretaryship of the Public Service Board
to the giddy height of Under-Secretary at the
Treasury. Still, the fact that he impressed
McGowen with his can’t-be-done-withontness sug-
gests strongly that he could' give Boyce points
when it comes to wheedling Cohen.
Hedges, Federal M.P. and head serang of
the Westralian goldfields combine, is a disgusted
man these days. Hundreds of Italians and Aus-
trians have been brought out, or have come out,
to choppa de wood ; and the Australian or
Britisher has been practically warned off on
account of his habit of talking back and asking
for more. Lately, however, the Italians and
Austrians formed a union, and not being able to
spikka word of de English, appointed one Hogan
to do the talking. Hogan asserts that the cutters
want 4s. 6d. per ton (present rate, 4s. 3d.), free
water, and sundry other things. The co. offers
various improvements, and says the men really
would accept if they could understand what they
were being offered. But Hogan shakes his head
and says “No wherefore 1600 men remain idle,
and Hedges, who used to be delighted because the
Dagoes couldn’t be corrupted, curses now because
they can’t be convinced either.
John Heriot, a fine, hospitable old sheep-
breeder, who died lately at Thugga station, near
Germanton (N.S.W.), was among those who were
marked by Morgan, the bushranger. Morgan
stuck up a station party, and, after general busi-
ness, was about to leave. He lined up all hands,
including Heriot, and, pistol in hand, prepared to
mount his horse. A revolver in his belt went off
accidentally. Believing he had been shot at,
Morgan threw his arm round and fired. Heriot
got the bullet in his thigh. The situation being
explained, Morgan sent a messenger for a doctor,
warning him that death would follow any attempt
to bring the police first. Then, still suspecting the
messenger, Morgan rode swiftly to a branch track
leading to the police quarters and waited. Along
came the messenger, and Morgan shot him dead.
Heriot had better luck than that, though he was
lame for life.
Gilmour G. White, the man of many Aus-
tralian motor records, is a study. He is under-
sized, youthful-looking, and wears no frills.
All of his deeds at the steering wheel have
been done with a 25-h.p. car with a history.
When Gilmour G. first acquired it, the
machine was a handsome, five-seated tour-
ing car, beautifully finished in brass, which
brass was the joy of Gilmour G.’s chauffeur.
Then White got ideas, and suddenly the car
was metamorphosed. It disappeared for a
few days, then emerged as a light, racy-
looking two-seater. The change was com-
plete. Even the brass was nickelled over,
whereat the chauffeur resigned in disgust.
White is a wealthy youth, with a fine estate
atthe Reedbeds, about seven miles from
Adelaide, and the sight of a young man
racing in that direction from an officah’s din-
ner at the Military Club, in full lieutenant’s
uniform, at something over 60 miles an
hour, is the joy and terror of the 2 a.m.
policeman.
The death of Charles Dilke must have set
the Cockney press querying, “ What became of
Fanny?” At the time of the Crawford-Dilke
divorce case she had been spirited away, and
nobody knew her whereabouts or her surname.
Fanny, according to Mrs. Crawford’s uncorrobo-
rated confession to her husband, had been a third
partner in the matron’s misconduct with Dilke.
She and the lady who told the giddy tale had
shared his endearments on sundry occasions in the
same room, the Lothario explaining to Mrs.
Crawford that such arrangements were quite usual
in fashionable society. But Fanny didn’t appear
as a witness at the trial, nor did the co-respondent
get into the box to deny the charges; so Craw-
ford got his divorce on the strength of his wife’s
gratuitous confession. Dilke, the brilliant Radical
(as “ radicalism ” was understood in the’7o’s of
last century), proved a notable exception to an
old-established rule, and the Tories never tired of
remarking it bitterly. His father was something
of a tuft-hunter, and acquired his baronetcy by
making himself useful to Queen Victoria’s hus-
band, it was said. Son Charles was expected to
be an equally devoted worshipper, and his falling
away from grace came under the Tory heading of
“ base ingratitude.” Hence the discovery of his
social peccadillo excited a roar of satisfaction in
the “ best ” circles—almost as loud a roar as
that which greeted the Parnell scandal not long
afterwards.
MARRIED
FOR MONEY.
“Let go , Martha! I can't support you any
longer! ”
“ Oh, you ungrateful brute! After I've sup-
ported you for a whole year! ”
Gilbert Murray, the Sydney boy who is
now an Oxford professor, lives by Greek, but
makes a light hobby of still more ancient litera-
ture. Lately he has been at work on a demotic
papyrus, “The Story of Nefrekapta,” and has
done it into verse, which the Oxford Press will
publish. A demotic papyrus certainly isn’t the
oldest thing in the world ; it pushed its nose in
just after the original picture-language had de-
cided that it was too cumbersome for general
use ; still “ The Story of Nefrekapta ” was pro-
bably put on its papyrus about 2600 years ago, so
it has a few gray hairs in its whiskers.
“Augustus Blowfly ” : Struck the touring
Marquis de Bonanate(B. 26/1/’] 1) in Melbourne,
where he was for a time the pet of would-be
Bohemians in the Italian cafes of that city. He
sported an out-size in visiting-cards, bearing the
ducal coronet above the motto, “God bless Aus-
tralia,” and was addicted to taxi-cabs, and the
crooning of Italian love-ditties in a voice of re-
markable register. Incidentally, he sold cigars to
his admirers and compatriots. The latter were
not inclined to allow the Marquis’s claim to rank
offhand, nor did they swallow holus-bolus the
story of the £lO,OOO bet made in the “Million-
aires’ Club” in Turin. Still, the visiting notability
was a cheerful circumstance, and may be expected
to create a pleasant flutter among she-susceptibles
in whatever quarter of this continent he blows.
Robert McDonald moved out of the chair
of the Under-Secretary for Lands (N.S.W.) the
other day, and C. E. Rennie took his place.
McDonald has had the rare experience of being
twice appointed Under-Secretary of the same
department. Crick appointed him first; but
after a while McDonald thought he smelt some-
thing and asked to be relieved, and another man
had the bad luck to be in office when the land
scandals happened. After that McDonald was
brought back, and added another peg or two to
his popularity in the service. Rennie, the chief
inspector, who has taken his place temporarily,
and will probably take it permanently, is a son of
the strenuous and downright old gentleman who
was N.S.W. Auditor-General for a generation or
two.
The appointment of Jimmy McLeod, of
the Age. to the job of Emigration Agent for Vic-
toria in England, came as a surprise to most Mel-
bourne journalists. The pals of James had no
idea that he desired a spell in the Cold Country.
The appointment is for two years at a salary of
from £4OO to £5OO, with expenses (beautiful
word !). McLeod, who was selected from 200
applicants, is an Australian native. He used to
be an architect, but has for some years devoted
himself to press work. Also, he is a good unionist,
and, although he probably had very little to com-
plain of personally, he nevertheless constituted
himself part of the shoving power of the recently-
formed Australian Journalists’ Association, and
was unanimously elected its first president.
H. G. A. Tim mis, master of the British
steamer Janeta, now in Westralian waters, is
“ the man who fooled Rodjestvensky.” During
the dust-up between the unready Bear and the
ready Monkey, Timmis was master of the British
steamer Planet Venus, which was engaged carry-
ing ammunition to the Japs at Port Arthur. On
the last voyage Timmis ran slap into Rodjest-
vensky’s fleet. Hastily raising the Russian colors,
Timmis sailed his craft along in rear of the
squadron, and the Planet Venus passed for one
of the many transports hanging on to the Russians’
mailed fringe. When his chance came Timmis
eluded the fleet and landed the supplies ; and if
he happens to be in Australia on some dark day
in the future, he will probably be a very sorry
man for the help he gave the yellow to down the
white.
Passed oub at the age of 68, Charles
Dilke, British baronet and M.P., a man of many
parts. He was a scholar, writer, traveller, politi-
cian, newspaper proprietor, and, in his early life,
an athlete. Also, he was a notable democrat,
and had a brain like a cathedral.
He held various Ministerial posi-
tions, and then he was Found Out,
and the door of his political career
closed with a bang. The trouble
concerned a second establishment
and sundry persons of the other
sex. Stead, of the Pall Mall
Gazette, was the man who made
the dreadful discovery. It is
generally understood that if
Dilke had repented, and
wept into his hat in Stead’s
presence, that exceed-
ingly pious gentleman
would have let him
off; Stead had a
mania for convert-
ing people, and
many persons whom
he had intended to
expose are said to
have squared
things by repent-
ing on his premises
and shedding tears
of misery into
their respective
plug hats. But Dilke
was as unregenerate,
in the Exeter Hall sense,
as Lucifer, and the bolt
fell. England, which had
never heard of such a dreadful
thing before, was so shocked that it
could hardly drink its skim milk, and, as already
mentioned, there was the sound of a door closing
in the distance. Dilke came back to politics in
later years, but he was never again the same Dilke.
Gearing, one of the best known of Victorian
provincial journalists, has just gone on for the final
proof-reading. He first sprang into notice in the
early ’so’s through a genius for bringing out news-
papers at new rushes, and making hay while the
nuggets shone. With Nuttall he planted the
Maryborough Advertiseb. When readers sunk
from thousands to hundreds Gearing moved on,
and was afterwards heard of at other rushes,
notably Majorca. He went on like that till 1873,
when James Smith laid his literary paw-on the
Maryborough Advertiser, Gearing’s old paper.
Smith flung in about five columns of spiritualism
every issue. The Advertiser editor saw the
cloud, but it was no good protesting ; Smith per-
suaded the proprietor that they had a good thing.
Of course, there was a local revolt, so Gearing
came back and founded the Standard ; and the
two papers have been in rivalry ever since.
Melbourne’s current Gaud Mayor is get-
ting credit for being the first to sit on the local
Bench as “Chief Magis-
trate of the City.” People
write to the papers ex-
pressing their joy that
“the Lord Mayor has
seen fit to break the
rule followed by his
predecessors.’’ Also,
they hope that his
successors will follow
his example. From
which it appe.-ri
that the Gie .t
deeds of the
Greatest
Mayors
pass soon
out of tra-
dition. Not
so very
many years
ago Mal-
colm Mc-
Eacharn,
who played
the civic dignitary
for all it was worth
and a bit over, sent
a thrill through all
aldermanie circles
by posing as Chief
Magistrate at the
City' Court. He
came in his gown
and his golden
chain and ruffles,
and the Court thanked
him for setting a noble
precedent for future
Mayors. Davey, the
present active and
übiquitous exponent
of chain-and-gownery,
is merely following the late Malcolm’s example.
And if he’s wise he will pause occasionally by
the way. The path of civic glory leads but to
dyspepsia.
High Commissioner Reid’s speech at the
Australian artists’ dinner in London in December
was largely a lament over the persistence with
which Bill Dyson, the Australian caricaturist,
pursued him. He had fled from Australia to
escape Dyson, he said, only to find himself forced
to go to innumerable luncheons and banquets in
London, just to let people see how much better-
looking he was than this malignant artist depicted
him. Dyson, in his reply, promised that in his
next drawing Reid should have a beauty actor’s
countenance and a slim figure. “ But,” he added,
“it will be a great shame to cut so much to
waist.”
ATTORNEY-GENERAL
HOLMAN (N.S.W.).
THE DRAGON-SLAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In common, he says, with several of his colleagues,
though not with all, he will urge the people not to accept
the amendment that will enable the Commonwealth
gradually to absorb the most important of the State's
legislative functions. On that point his attitude will be
clear and specific. Mr. Holman and other Ministers will,
therefore, take an active part in the approaching cam-
paign.—Joyful tidings in Sydney D.T.
Here's news that is truly terrific 1
It dizzies and dazzles the brain !
What! Holman grown clear and specific
On any proposal mundane?
Now Fisher will struggle in vain !
Let him cease—for the fight’s at an end
With Holman orating again
Of course we decline to amend !
With Holman grown clear and specific,
To fight would be sheer waste of time ;
Too long had he been hieroglyphic—
Was he Mystic, or Gnostic, or Mime?
No matter ! With courage sublime
He shines as our Only True Friend ;
He tells us amendment’s a crime,
So, of course, we decline to amend !
The Commonwealth looks Hippogriffic—
Must Ma fill its ravening inaw?
No ! Holman, grown clear and specific,
Will hold the fierce monster in awe !
From the dark labyrinth of the Law,
Whence Misguided Enthusiasts wend,
Comes Holman with death-dealing jaw,
And, of course, we decline to amend !
N.B.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Free
fot
keP
<&» of
1
Cs
1
Tobacco
&
The Manufacturers of “VENUS” TOBACCO will give FREE in return for the
RED PAPER SEALS from the 2oz. Tins, or the TIN
' VENUS\
figureJ
TAGS
from the Plugs, as under;
NICKEL KEYLESS
WATCH.
m
For
75 Venus (2oz. tin) Seals
.i or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
For 10 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals
For 15 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals
LADY’S MOROCCO LEATHER BAG.
mm
For 75 Venus (2oz. tins) Seals or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN.
FIRST QUALITY TWO BLADES POCKET KNIFE.
LEATHER PUZZLE
PURSE.
m
For
25 Venus (2oz tin) Seals
or
25 Venus (plug) Tags.
Or 10 Venus
(plug) Tags.
Or 15 Venus
(plug) Tags.
DIRECTIONS,
Send or post the Seals or Tags to KRONHEIMER LTD., Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, or Perth, and writs your name
and address distinctly on the outside of the package.
Post at the same time a letter stating the number of Seals or Tags in the package, and the gift you desire.
The Gifts can be obtained on personal application, or will be posted free of charge to anyone complying with
the foregoing directions.
4—This offer will absolutely close on 301 JUNE, 1911.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
Circular Quay (East), Sydney ; and 34 Queen Street, Melbourne,
specialise in Light Tramway Material, Gas Engines and Suction Gas
Plants, “Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines, etc.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
WV “NO CONNECTION WITH ANYCOMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £
June, 1904.. 65.555 10p.c.= 50,000 15,555 3,075,819
Dec., 1904.. 65.570 30 ~ ~ 50,000 15,570 1,091,389
June, 1905.. 65,204 10 „ ~ 50,000 15,204 1,106,593
Dec., 1905.. 65,263 10 ~ ~ 50,000 15,263 1,121,856
June, 1906.. 66,022 10 ~ ~ 50,000 16,022 1,137,878
Dec., 1906.. 67,982 10 ~ ~ 50,000 17,982 1,155,560
Premiums on new shares .. 42,713 1,198,573
June, 1907.. 71,800 10 p.c. = 50,000 21,800 1,220,373
Premiums on new shares .. 6,522 1,226,895
Dec., 1907.. 83,005 10p.c.= 61,288 21,717 1,248,612
Premiums on new shares .. 765 1,249,377
June, 1905.. 90,973 10p.c.= 62,420 28,553 1,277,930
Dee., 1908.. 91,706 10 „ ~ 68,384 23,522 1,301,452
June, 1909.. 104,438 10 ~ „ 74,776 29,662 3,331,114
Dec., 1909.. 116,496 10 ~ „ 75,000 41,496 1,372,610
June, 1910.. 117,000 10 „ ~ 75,000 42,000 1,414,610
Dec., 1910.. 117,955 10 ~ „ 75,000 42,955 1,457,565
Ttiis is wonderful progress. In 10 years the profit has
much more than doubled. Certainly the capital has
been increased. But, even so, in' the last half of
1900, after paying- a 10 per cent. div. on the then
capital, only £1509 was put by to visible re-
serves, whereas for the past half-year no less
than £42,955 has been added to the great heap.
Admittedly you can’t tell the real prosperity of either a
country or a bank by only looking at a bank’s declared
profits. Twenty years or less ago Australian banks
thought they were making heaps of money ; at any
rate, they said they were. But the fact was that
the interest they were earning ivas added to the debts
the customers owed ; and when they proceeded to col-
lect those debts, and took possession of the securi-
ties, they found the value wasn’t there. The con-
ditions in the very early ’nineties were very dif-
ferent, though, from those that rule to-day. Then the
bogus prosperity was based on a borrowing boom, whereas
the present prosperity is based on a succession of excep-
tionally profitable seasons. Banks failed then because
they were called upon suddenly to pay back foreign
deposits. To-day, though no doubt there are some
foreign deposits, Australian banks are actually large
lenders in London. This bank alone had £1,270,135 on
short call there at the end of the year, besides a large
holding in Consols—which is also money lent to John Bull.
It is worth noting that the smashes of the’nineties followed
a period of furious borrowing. Then came an awakening.
At the beginning of last decade C.O.D. principles
were beginning to be accepted. Three or four years after
that, borrowing almost stopped. And extraordinary
prosperity followed. So there we have hard borrowing
followed by smash ; no borrowing followed by success.
In the face of that, the fool Governments of Australia are
dashing into another wild borrowing campaign.
The following figures show in part the remark-
able changes in this bank’s position in 10 years :
Assets.
- 1- ■ —■■■ Increase.
1900. 1910. p.c.
Notes and bills ..£1,608,360 .. £1,952,005 .. 21-3
Deposits .. .. 11,218,244 .. 19,622,848 .. 74"9
Liquid assets .. 5,114,025.. 12,563,173 .. 145-6
Advances .. .. 9,375,552 .. 13,564,052 .. 23’3
Premises, etc. .. 425,400 .. 487,455 .. 14’6
While the State Treasurers are rushing out borrowed
money, this bank is keeping a fairly tight hold upon it.
In 10 years, while the advances have increased 23 per
cent., the liquid assets have increased no less than 145
percent. Of £9,248,249 of new deposits and new capital
got in in 10 years, only £2,188,500 has been put out in
advances. Why? The question ought to be seriously
answered. Capital is wanted for the development of the
country. And here is a vast quantity of capital doing very
little if anything in that way—doing little for the country
and very little for the bank. The bank would certainly use
the money if it believed it could do so safely. One very
strong reason why it can’t do so safely is the tremendous
fluctuation in the value of Australian securities. The
seasons are partly responsible ; but they get more blame
then they deserve. More important than the seasons is
the disastrous habit Australian Governments have of
breaking out into borrowing booms. These things
create a bogus prosperity. They inflate prices.
Then the boom ends; and men who have
bought at fictitious prices cannot pay interest.
In the pastoral country they overstock in their
struggle. Naturally the stock losses are then ab-
normal ; and we put it down to drought. If we put it
down to our Philps and Kidstons and Waddells and
Verrans we should be nearer the mark. Providence is
not nearly as black as we paint Him. Hence, when rash
borrowing or similar causes produce inflated prices, the
experienced men who run the Commercial of Sydney and
other great banks now refuse to join in the scramble.
And therein they do a service alike to themselves and the
country.
The past year simply reproduces the history of
the past 10 years so far as this bank is concerned :
Dec., 1909. Dec., 1910.
Notes .. .. £595,236 £631,538 Inc. £36,302
Bills .. .. 967,967 1,320,467 Inc. 352,500
Deposits .. 16,562,191 19,622,848 Inc. 3,060,657
Liquid assets.. 9,530,274 12,563,173 Inc. 3,032,899
Advances .. 11,080,214 11,564,052 Inc. 483,838
Premises, etc.. 469,520 487,455 Inc. 17,935
A big increase in deposits, and almost every penny of
still in the safe, or let out on short call in London, or dis-
posed of in some such way. Of course this wonderfully
strengthens the position of the bank, which has no less
than 58 per cent, of its liabilities thus represented by
liquid assets—probably about 20 per cent, more than
safety demands. It is extraordinary under the circum-
stances that the capital and reserves combined show such
good earnings:—
June, 1906 .. £6 4 6 p.c. Dec., 1908 ..£6 18 7 p.c.
Dec., 1906 ..6 7 3,, June, 1909 .. 7 9 0 „
June, 1907 .. 613 3 ~ Dec., 1909 .. 8 4 7 „
Dec., 1907 .. 614 7 ~ June, 1910 .. 8 211 „
June, 1908 .. 7 5 7 „ | Dec., 1910 .. 8 1 10 „
It is a pretty good indication that there is not much un-
productive stuff among the advances.
* * * *
The Australian Bank of Commerce (Sydney),
the Phoenix that rose from the ashes of the old A.J.S.
Bank: —
To Re-
Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1910 ..£11,670 3 p.c. = £8,441 £3229 £3229
Dec., 1910 .. 18,421 3£ „ „ 18,103 318 3547
This isn’t the speech the chairman made to the share-
holders at their meeting ; but if he had been quite frank
he would probably have said something like it: —
“Gentlemen, you see we are paying you 3J per cent.
We know it is more than you ought to get; but don’t
throw bricks at us—until we’ve had a chance to explain,
anyway. We had only a wretched little £3229 of undivided
profit at the end of the previous half-year ; and after you
have cut up this 3J per cent, among you, there
will be only £3lB to put in the stocking. So you
see your dividend is going to absorb 98 per cent, of the
profit. Under those circumstances, you’ll probably feel
uncomfortable when you call for your cheques. Well, if
it will do you any stood, I don’t mind telling you that we
feel pretty uncomfortable about paying* it.
“ The fact is, we want to lift the price of the shares
to par. You know as well as I do that there was
a very bad smell about the old A.J.S. for many years, due
to the grreat number of dead horses on the pre-
mises. Honestly, as far a 3 we can smell and
see (and we have looked hard and smelt hard), all
the defunct zoo has been removed. Even the greneral
manager rides on a live horse at last—the grift of a staff
which thought it was groingr to gret the sack, but finds
itself getting a rise instead. Yet, though the dead horses
have been removed, the public is afraid to put its nose in
here. Well, we’ve got to coax the public in some-
how. I don’t want to be personal, and I certainly don’t
want to hurt your feelings, because I’m hoping you will
vote for me presently ; but there are a good many even
of you shareholders who don’t seem too willing to send
vour money or your business our way. However, that’s
beside the point. What we want to get is the public;
and the public likes big dividends, and says there must
be something wrong if the shares are at a discount. Of
course the public is a fool, but we are going to answer a
fool according to his folly.
“Our general manager has had such a gruelling that
he wouldn’t consent to this 3J per cent, if he thought
there was any risk about it. He will, however, swear on
his private ledger, or on his last little poem, or on any-
thing else that you like to name, that the assets are worth
all of 20s. in the £ ; and, though we shall no doubt make
bad debts in the future, we haven’t got any to provide
for at present. Also, he sees that business is improving ;
and those two or three things put together are the best
excuse we can offer for paying a dividend which, in other
circumstances, would earn for us all the kick-out.
“Gentlemen, you will now please take my advice and
re-elect us ; and then call around for your cheques.”
As a matter of fact, they called for their
cheques; but they didn’t re-elect the chairman (l*. H.
Morton). Three new men—Sheldon, Barton and Yar-
nold—were put on the Board.
The present paid capital is £1.145,933, and
there is also £1,732,067 of inscribed deposits (part of the
old debt of the A.J.S.). Except that the inscribed
deposits are to be very gradually paid off out of a so-
called sinking fund, this means that the co. has practi-
cally £2,878,000 of capital, £1,732,067 of which carries a
cumulative 4 per cent. All liabilities (including £417,262
payable to old depositors in 1012) total £2,812,016 ; so
that, instead of having the use of £5, or £6, or
£7 of the public’s money for every £1 of its
own, the A.B.C. has really less than £l. Assuming
that the assets are sound, and that the capital is intact,
the bank has quite enough capital (apart from the in-
scribed deposits) to carry about three times the present
deposits ; and if the advances were doubled, making them
(say) £7,500,000 instead of £3,877,624, it would be nothing
at all out of the way. The foundations are consequently
there ; what has to be got now is the business. And there
is no earthly reason why it should notcome. Depositors,
as before mentioned, would be well protected if they were
three time as numerous ; and .until not only they but
advance accounts as well are much more plentiful, share-
holders, while they take very little risk, will have to fee
content with a very modest dividend.
* * * *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Yic.)
Written Added
off Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £4004 6p.c.=£2550 £250 £1204 £64,857
June, 1904.. 3977 7 „ ~ 2975 1002 65,859
Dec., 1904.. 3974 7 ~ „ 2975 999 66,858
June, 1905.. 4028 7 „ ~ 2975 1053 67,911
Dec., 1905.. 4040 7 „ ~ 2975 1065 68,976
June, 1906.. 4050 7 „ „ 2975 500 675 69,551
Dec., 1906.. 4098 7 „ ~ 2975 1123 70,674
June, 1907.. 4129 7 „ ~ 2975 1154 71,828
Dec., 1907.. 4007 7 „ ~ 2975 1032 72,860
June, 1908.. 4050 7 ~ ~ 2975 1075 73,935
Deo., 1908.. 4079 7 ~ ~ 2975 1104 75,039
June, 1909.. 4103 7 „ „ 2975 500 628 75,667
Dec., 1909.. 4160 7i „ „ 3187 973 76,640
June, 1910.. 4204 7|,, ~ 3187 1017 77,657
Dec., 1910.. 4176 7£ „ „ 3187 989 78,646
There are only two Australian banks with head-offices
outside the capital cities ; and this is one of them—the
other is in Launceston (Tas.). The Ballarat district
suffers from big landlords and the policy of dragging
everything to the capitals ; hence, in spite of a remark-
ably prosperous decade, this bank has not made much
progress. Its advances in 1900 were £282,321 ;
now they total £311,376 —an improvement of
only 10 per cent. Nor have the deposits in-
creased much more rapidly. Probably the bank
could have got much more money; but with the
industry of the district in hobble-skirts, there was no
effective use for the money if the bank had accepted it.
So its deposits, etc., amount to only about 325. for every
20s. of its own funds. Further, 42 per cent, of its total
liabilities are in liquid form. This, of course, means that
the risks of depositors are almost nil while those of share-
holders are also very small indeed ; for shareholders’ risks
increase in proportion to the amount of the public’s
money which the shareholders’ funds have to safeguard.
On the other hand, with little risk there is little profit.
The return on total funds (capital and reserves combined)
has recently worked out like this :
June, 1907 .. £5 6 1 p.c. June, 1909 .. £5 3 2 p.c.
Dec., 1907 .. 5 2 2 „ Dec., 1909 .. 5 3 6 „
June, 1908 ..5 2 8,, June, 1910 .. 5 4 0 ~
Dec., 1908 .. 5 2 0 „ Dec., 1910 .. 5 2 8 „
And to earn even that much the bank has to do a business
which the bigger concern can’t or won’t touch as a rule.
Not that it isn't good business ; but a big concern, with
the responsible men hundreds of miles away, naturally
can’t rely so much on the personal equation as a small
bank whose responsible men have a personal knowledge
of the customer. So the big bank has to go almost wholly
on documents, while the little and more or less local
bank can go a good deal on character—what the insur-
ance man calls the moral hazard ; and character is often
a better security than the document. Trouble, however,
arises when the management mistakes the goods—and, as
most people know, they can be mistaken.
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £60,445 15 p.c.= £56,250 £4,195 £118,906
June, 1904.. 52,187 15 „ „ 56,250 114,843
Dec., 1904.. 61,555 15 „ „ 56,250 5,305 120,148
June, 1905.. 53,343 15 „ ~ 56,818 116,673
Dec., 1905.. 63,623 15 „ „ 59,284 4,339 121,012
June, 1906.. 56,237 15 ~ „ 59,971 117,278
Dec., 1906 . 65,461 15 „ ~ 59,996 5,465 122,743
June, 1907.. 55,140 15 „ „ 60,000 117,883
Dec., 1907.. 65,436 15 „ „ 60,000 5,436 123,319
June, 1905.. 55,024 15 ~ ~ 60,000 118,343
Dec., 1908.. 65,013 15 „ „ 60,000 5,013 123,356
June, 1909.. 54,746 15 „ „ 60,000 118,102
Dec., 1909.. 64,012 15 „ „ 60,000 4,012 122,114
June, 1910.. 18,081 15 „ „ 62,450 77,745
Dec., 1910.. 79,366 15 „ „ 63,750 15,616 93,361
This bo. has reached its 75th year; and the other 74 have
been years of great prosperity. As far back as this paper can
see with its most powerful glasses, a 15 per cent, dividend
was paid. How much more than 15 per cent, might have
been paid if the co. had not put hundreds of thousands
of pounds into new plant, there is no telling. There is no
telling either how many hundreds of thousands have been
used in that way. There is, nevertheless, very fair evi-
dence of very large expenditure. Ten years ago the
fixed-investment asset—that is, land, buildings, machin-
ery, mains, pipe-lines and implements—stood in the books
at’ £1,112,131; and the sales of gas, etc., for that half-
year were £182,961. On the book-value of the fixed in-
vestment, the gross revenue was thus 33 per cent, per
annum. The book value of the fixed investment now is
£1,249,640; and the sales of gas, etc., for the half-year
were £315,814, or at the rate of nearly 51 per cent. Putin
another way, an outlay of £137,509 of capital produced an
extra £132,853 of revenu e in the half-year. This fact, then,
is obvious : there has been a vast addition to plant paid for
not out of capital but out of undisclosed profits. If, £
for £, the works are earning the same amount of revenue
now as they did in 1900, and if the works were valued at
£1,249,640 in 1900, then they should stand at about
£1,900,000 now. That is to say, if £lOOO worth of plant
produced the same amount of revenue in 1900 as it does
to-day, then, besides the £137,509 of capital which has
been put into plant, about £514,000 of undisclosed profit
has gone the same way, or an average of a little
over £50,000 a year. It cannot, of course, be said
positively that that amount of profit has been thus
spent. All that can be said is that, if it
takes the same amount of plant to earn £1 as it
took 10 years ago, a trifle over £50,000 a year of un-
disclosed profit must have gone into plant—a sum ex-
ceeding 6 per cent, on the average of the capital. Under
the Victorian law the Metropolitan (Melbourne) Gas Co.,
for instance, shows the amount of revenue put into
works, etc. Under the appalling State law of N. S.
Wales, a gas co., though it supplies what is prac-
tically a public necessity, is permitted to issue
accounts which, instead of disclosing the posi-
tion, may absolutely disguise it, and mislead the
public. Thus, in the previous half-year this co. had no
hesitation in paying out a div. of £62,450, although it
avowed that “ the recent coal strike entailed a loss to
the co. of over £70,000”; and the Board isn’t the sort
that would pay a div. of that size, in the face of such a
loss, unless it had something very substantial up its
sleeve.
Besides the reserves shown in the table the co.
has £282,225 of premium capital. Adding this to the
capital proper, the total is £1,132,221, and on that
amount the div. is equal to about 12 per cent. The total
liabilities are £351,690 on general account (this includes
debentures, temporary loans, etc.), and £26,861 is held on
deposit from consumers. The Government is now con-
sidering the question of dealing with this co. in some as
yet unspecified way. No doubt scenting something of
the kind in the distance, the co. lately reduced the price
of gas from 4s. to 3s. 9d., and knocked ss. a
year off the charge for public lights. The Govern-
ment says, however, that this does not end the matter.
It may either take over the whole business or limit the
dividend, allowing a trifle of an increase for every reduc-
tion in price. So far as Government purchase goes, the
position is complicated by the fact that the Sydney
municipality is the vigorous owner of an electric lighting
and power enterprise ; and it would be undesirable for
State and municipality to compete. In England it is the
municipalities which have done most of the buying-out.
Over 150 cos. have disappeared in that way, and over 250
municipalities are supplying gas at an average of about
2s. sd. If in this case there is no buying-out, the plan of
fixing a sliding scale may be adopted. In Melbourne this
system prevails; but there it is valueless because the
maximum price for gas was fixed too high, wherefore the
co. needn’t reduce its price below about 4s. 6d. to
entitle it to declare a2O per cent. div. With that warn-
ing, a mistake of the kind isn’t likely to be repeated in
Sydney.
* * * *
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne):—
Works Written
Charged off
to lie- Stocks. Re-
Profits; Dividends. venue, etc. senes.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’03..52,017 9p.c.= 38,574 9,481 2,000 572,346
June,’04..48,971 9 „ ~ 38,574 6,901 575,842
Dec., ’04..51,941 9 „ „ 38,574 19,293 1,434 568,482
June,’05..52,588 10 „ ~42,860 4,207 3,207 570,796
Dec., ’05..56,565 10 „ „ 42,860 4,841 4,660 675,000
June,’06..54,324 10 „ ~ 42,860 10,672 3,101 572,691
Dec., '06..60,833 10 „ „ 42,860 13,651 4,291 572,722
June,’07..60,713 10 ~ ~42,860 12,376 5,167 573,032
Dec., '07..65,181 10 „ „ 42,860 16,926 5,238 573,189
June, ’OB . 66,848 10 ~ „ 42,860 31,076 3,760 562,341
Dec., ’08..72,737 10 „ ~ 42,860 15,850 5,526 570,842
June,’09..84,831 10 „ ~ 42,860 17,219 8/286 587,308
Dec., ’09..76,280 10 „ „ 42,860 23,605 11,693 585,430
June,’10..71,955 10 „ ~42,860 32,157 4,468 577,900
Dec., ’10..93,701 10 „ ~ 42,860 18,809 33,052 576,880
The reserves are made up as follows :
Premiums on shares .. .. £466,535
Formal reserve fund .. .. 87,073
Meter renewal fund 20,626
Profit and Loss balance .. .. 2,646
Total £576,880
But a gas (or any other) co. may have reserves which it
doesn’t show. It may, for instance, create a reserve by pay-
ing for new works out of profits, and either writing those
profits off or not showing them as profits at all. This co.
does show them ; the Sydney co. does not. Consequently,
while the amount spent on new works by the Sydney co.
can only be guessed at, a column giving definite figures is
included in the table at the head of these remarks. In
five years, that column shows, £192,341 of profit has been
absorbed in additions to works ; so, while the share-
holders haven’t got that money in cash, they own it
in the shape of fixed assets. This, in fact, is one of
the faults found with the statutory arrangement for
regulating the price charged by this co. for gas. I£ is
true that, to, entitle it to bigger dividends, it must
reduce the price of gas to customers, though it might
pay a much bigger dividend than it does at present on
the present price ; but, even if it were paying all the
dividend it was entitled to pay, there isnothing to stop
it maintaining a high price and stuffing the extra profits
into works. In other words, there is nothing to stop it
from making the consumers contribute the capital for
new works, and thus enable it to maintain its div. no
matter what bad times might happen to Melbourne.
The following figures throw some further light
on this subject of the amount of profit spent on new
works;—
Dec., 1900. Dec., 1910.
Book value of works, buildings,
mains, etc £2,134,787 £2,169,526
Sales of gas, etc. .. .. .. 167,626 286,649
Sales per cent, of book value per
annum £l5/14/1 £26/8/7
Thus, less than £35,000 of all the additions to plant,
mains, buildings, etc., in the past 10 years have been
provided by capital (that is, by the shareholders) ; all i he
rest has been provided by the co’s. customers. And what
those additions amount to may be judged by the fact
that the revenue is now £286,649, whereas 10 years ago it
was £167,626.
Theoretically profits are put into new plant
and written off in order to counterbalance the deprecia-
tion of the plant, mains, etc., which have been previ-
ously bought with capital. You can’t use a machine
without wearing it out; and if that machine has been
bought with capital, some of the revenue ought to be
put into a long stocking to buy another machine when
the first one is obsolete or useless. A certain amount of
profits ought therefore to be collared : honest finance
demands it. But the question is : How much? Thisco.,
it will be noticed from the first table, writes off some
profit quite apart from what it puts into new plant: no
less than £33,052 is written off in the past half-year.
This total is made up as follows:
Works reconstruction £20,000
Gas stoves subsidy .. .. .. 3,000
Meter renewals 5,052
Works on leasehold lands .. .. 5,000
Total £33,052
It is quite probable that some of the £20,000 put aside for
works reconstruction will add to the value of the super-
seded works ; in which case the money is really spent on
additions to works. Also, besides the profit spent on
new w'orks and the profit written off for reconstruc-
tions, etc., over £30,000 of revenue was spent in the
past half-year on “ repairs, maintenance, renewals,
machinery, apparatus, tools, material, etc.” In view
of all this it is not wonderful that, on the nominal or book
value of the assets, the revenue is about 75 per cent,
greater than it was 10 years ago, so very large an amount
having meantime been added to the undertaking out of
revenue. These additions, as previously remarked, will
make it a comparatively easy matter to maintain the
dividend, even in the face of a' slump in Melbourne’s
prosperity. Or it could be maintained if the co. were
hard pressed and thought it wise to throw a bone to the
wolves in the shape of a reduction in the price of gas.
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S. Aus.)
„ . To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1906.. £4040 12J per cent. = £3600 £440 £9 258
Dec., 1906.. 3931 10 ~ „ 2800 1131 10’389
June, 1907.. 6196 12J „ ~ 3600 2596 12,985
Dec., 1907.. 5912 12| „ ~ 3000 2312 15,297
June, 1908.. 5971 20 „ „ 5600 371 15,668
Dec., 1908.. 5407 10 „ „ 2800 2607 18,275
June, 1909.. 1420 5 „ ~ 1400 20 18,295
Dec., 1909.. 3801 8 „ ~ 2240 1561 19,856
June, 1910.. 3714 10 ~ ~ 2800 914 20,770
Dec., 1910.. 1945 10 ~ ~ 2800 19,915
The tug business seems to be a good deal of a gamble,
wherefore one half-year this co.’s profits are up to £5407
and the next half-year they are down to £1420. Resides
doing practically all the tug business that Adelaide has
to offer, this co is also in the lightering profession ;
and there isn’t as much lightering and launch-
running as there used to be when the mail steamers
and a good many other vessels used to lie off the Sema-
phore, in the days before Tom Price gave Adelaide an
Outer Harbor. So far, certainly, the co. hasn’t suffered
very much, because there has been a set-off in the shape
of the wonderfully improved trade of S. Australia, follow-
ing on seven good seasons. Another one or two of them
and people will begin to doubt whether there is e\er
going to be any other sort. It may be safe to
go this far: that, though the cocky is pushing
into belts that were once branded “Desert,” the average
wheat yield for the next 20 years will be 25 per cent,
higher than it was for the period 1880-1900. There is no
miracle about that.; and there is no reason to expect dif-
ferent seasons. The extra 25 per cent, simply represents
more brains. Like hundreds of other concerns, this co. is
going to reap some of the benefit; though, as remarked
just now, it won’t get all the benefit, because with the
bigger trade better facilities will be offered, and the
lightering may be still further reduced. The co.’s
financial position is very sound. A comparison :
Dec.. 1906. Dec., 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £10,323 £25,393
All liabilities .. .. 1,723 1,477
Surplus .. .. £8,600 £23,916
Meantime also one new tug or launch has been bought
and other additions made to the plant, which probably
go a long way towards counterbalancing the general
depreciation on account of bumps and barnacles. It is a
very fine four years’ record on a capital of £56,000.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. shares.) Off. Reserves.
1902.. £13,927 Nil £ll,OOO £96,921
1903.. 35,935 5 per cent. =£27,500 11,000 94,356
1904.. 65,512 7£ „ „ 41,250 22,005 96,613
1905.. 102,422 10 „ „ 55,0'0 50,030 94,005
1906.. 136,364 10 „ ~ 55,000 41,904 133,465
1907.. 117,257 10 „ ~ 55,000 116,480 79,242
1908.. 39,842 10 ~ „ 55,U)0 31,293 32,791
(All shares.)
1909.. 178,331 10 per cent. = 96,250 24,940 89,923
1910.. 235,495 15 „ ~144,375 53,518 127,525
In mining, John Bull has enough patience to fit out a
whole drove of monuments. Often lie doesn’t get Re-
warded ; but this is one of the rare occasions on which
it looks as though he might win his money back and a bit
besides. At one time his chances seemed rotten. In the
first place, he paid a vast sum for a process which
turned out badly ; in the second place, wdien the
second string to the bow—the Broken Hill Central
mine—looked like bringing down dividends, there was a
horrible collapse of the workings, and most of the ex-
pensive machinery on the surface was thrown into con-
fusion. The latter disaster explains why in three years
over £200,000 W’as written off. Years ago, general-
manager Courtney set out to either evolve or secure a
process by which the ore would be put in at one end, and
silver-lead, zinc and tailings would come out at the other
in three neat parcels. Practically this is what the old
milling process plus the Minerals Separation (zinc flota-
tion) process secures. This zinc extraction has taken the
place of the old Ashcroft process, which the co. was
originally formed to work.
The co., having wasted the bulk of its first
capital on a process and plant which didn’t answer, fell
into financial difficulties ; and £lOO,OOO had to be raised
on debentures. Other debts in excess of that were also
contracted. Of the debentures £61,902 were still in
existence on June 30 last. The balance are redeemable
at the end of next year ; and, provided nothing unfore-
seen happens; the job should be easy. In fact, the profits
last year in excess of the 15 per cent, dividend amounted
to £91,120. Of that amount £53,518 was written off;
£33,518 of it was struck off the book value of plant,
etc., charged to capital account, and the other
£20,000 is put by for contingencies. Liquid assets and
liabilities have had these changes in two years :
June, 1908. June, 1910.
Liabilities £279,373 .. £131,210
Liquid assets .. .. 258,987 .. 330,837
Deficiency .. .. £20,386
Surplus .. .. .. £199,627
So, after paying or allowing for the dividends, a deficiency
of £75,386 has been turned in two years into a surplus of
£55,252—a change for the better of £130,638. That is
after paying or providing for divs., and paying for all
additions to plant. The capital is £962,500, in 550,000
pref. shares fully paid to £l, and the same number of
ordinaries formerly paid to £l, but now written down to
15s.
As to the future, nobody can be cocksure about
a business which hangs on the racketty markets for
silver, lead and zinc. This little table of average prices
suggests how racketty the markets are :
Lead. Silver. Zinc,
ton. (fine) oz. ton.
1906 .. £l5 11 0 31 4d. £26 13 4
1907 .. 19 2 1 33-7 d. 26 14 8
1908 .. 16 0 7 29-4 d. 21 2 0
1909 .. 13 5 7 25:5d. 20 14 6
1910 .. 12 19 2 25’8d. 22 13 8
The years end on June 30 in each case. There is thus a
difference of £6 2s. lid. per ton for lead, 7‘9d. per
oz. for silver, and £4 is. per ton for zinc between the
1907 and 1910 average quotations ; and last year’s crop of
concentrates from the co.’s own ore ran to (5ay)1,450,0000z.
silver and 31,000 tons lead, apart from the silver and lead
in the zinc concentrates, and 40,000 tons of zinc. A
vague idea can be formed, then, of the difference in the
value of that output on the basis of the 1907 and 1910
prices. The zinc mentioned wasn’t all from the 231,339
tons of crude ore treated ; 47,129 tons of old tailings
were also drawn upon. The ore in reserve is estimated
at 2,702,000 tons—say, 12 years’ supply at last year’s rate of
extraction, and assuming that it can all be mined. There
are also on hand 393,397 tons of slimes and tailings—say,
eight years’ supply if they are drawn upon at the same
rate as the dumped tailings were handled last year.
* * * *
From D. JR.. Menzies, Wellington (M.L.):—
“I am secretary for Rheuino, Limited, of New Zealand, a
company which has the M.L. rights of a remedy for
rheumatism known as ‘Rheumo.’ I wish to draw your
attention to the enclosed prospectus, which is being issued
by the promoters of an Australian Rheuino Co. The pro-
moter wrote to me last November, asking for our balance-
sheet, presumably to use in writing up his prospectus;
but this information the directors declined to give.
The prospectus has now been issued, and contains what
purports to be figures concerning the Maoriland business.
These figures are erroneous. The Maoriland co. consists
of the members of the original syndicate which was run-
ning Rheumo. They turned themselves into a limited
liability co., but did not offer any shares to outsiders.
The authorised capital of the co. is £5OOO, of which £3OOO
worth of shares were issued as fully paid up. A few con-
tributing shares were issued, on which ss. has been called
up and paid, and the balance of the capital is unissued.
Referring more especially to the figures in the pros-
pectus, you will be able to work out your own conclusions
when I tell you that our yearly sales have never remotely
approached £BOOO, that the co. has never declared a
larger dividend than 5 per cent, for any year, and has


BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalg:oorlie.
n
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. VV. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • *
“Fkrrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort's
Dock and Mt. L.vell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per ewt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS <& CO/, Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * w It
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured by
Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every description of
asbestos goods, patent “ Belfry ” steam valves and
asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are stocked
at the depotsof Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, Ltd.,
315 Kent Street, Sydney, and Beach Street, Fremantle ;
also at Victorian Agency, W. H. Lamond & Co., 328
Flinders Street, Melbourne.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465): —“The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenridge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables with longitudinal riffles.. has
been greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks:
“One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability to separate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made by any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wilfley Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [1
* * * *
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break
H.P. Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
,** * *
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement ”
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney, and 581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 7 ' [3
* * * •* .
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under date
October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life Assu-
rance Society, Limited: “In every branch of business
success has been marked with sagacious management, and
it must be highly gratifying to all concerned to note that
the huge surplus at the last valuation has been put to
most excellent and practical use in strengthening its
resources.”*
* * * *
No Exposed Metal is the secret of Wood
Pipe’s rust, acid, electricity or minerals
have any effect on the wood, hence its durability. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will
send catalogue on application.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * • * *
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks on hand.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automaticlubrica-
tion [ and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines [l
* * * *
One of the oldest and best-known engineering
concerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company with a capital of £150,000, and will
now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, the
governing directors being Mephan Ferguson and Robert
Shand. The head office and works are at Gordon Street,
Footscray, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Thirty years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* • -* *
Assaters, Mink Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbiirg and Co., 443 Bourlte Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights;- pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
never paid a bonus, and the undivided profits are not
sufficient to pay a dividend of 5 per cent.’’
* * * *
Spelter (zinc) prospects are unusually good.
N’York Engineering and Mining Journal lately declared
that there was already a shortage in Europe and a likeli-
hood of one in America. The former is on account of the
Spelter Convention or Honorable Understanding ; the
latter is threatened through the failure of the Kansas
natural gas wells. The U.S. production of virgin spelter
in 1909 was 266,462 tons, of which 157,998 tons
were nroduced by smelters using natural gas as fuel ;
and half of the gas smelters look as though they
will have to be abandoned. “The total number of re-
torts in the U.S. at the present time is about 95,430. . . .
It is to be anticipated that the larger part of the retorts
at lola (25,524) and at Chanute (1280) will be abandoned
before the end of the coming winter.” The Journal —
the world’s first authority in its line—concludes: “ Any-
way, the spelter market is in an unusually secure posi-
tion. While it may go up materially, on the other hand
it can hardly go down, except perhaps for some trifling
and temporary set-back.”
« * * *
Broken Hill has ceased to worry itself about
the Murex magnetic plant at Block 14. After waiting 12
months to see a rocket, it is not to be wondered at that the
mining crowd failed to be dazzled by the squib that went
up. If the plant were any size, the length of time it has
taken to get it into operation would not be wondered at.
But there are larger plants at some sausage factories.
The initial process—that of separating the metal from the
gangue by powerful magnets, the metal particles having
been first coated with a magnetic paint—was carried out
successfully some months ago, and then the erection of
the second part of the plant was set about. This second
operation is more complicated than the first, and con-
sists in burning off the oil, de-magnetising the coneen
trates, and finally separating the latter into a lead and a
zinc concentrate by table concentration. Small quanti-
ties of material have been treated by this latter process
of late ; but the utmost secrecy is being observed regard-
ing the results. The reason seems to be that negotiations
are pending which involve the treatment of a larger ton-
nage of Block 14 ore than was at first stipulated for.
* * * *
Four years’ record of the Grafton Copper
Mining Co. (N.S.W.):—
Written
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1906 £3,615
1907 .. £14,252 £ll,OOO 6,867
1908 .. 4,552 Nil 11,419
1909 .. 6,993 4,000 £912 13,500 '
1910 .. 5,760 5,000 14,260
A good deal of money has been spent on roads, used
chiefly to get fuel; and some of this outlay has been
written off—£lo7s in the past year. In the table, this
expenditure has been reckonedin with working expenses,
and is therefpre not shown as a writing-off. The co. has
hopes of getting some of the money back from the Works
Department. Partly on account of this outlay, and
partly because the co. has just spent £2585 on a fuel
tramway five miles long, there was an overdraft of £6926
on December 31, besides £4073 of other debts. Apart
from stores and fuel, stocks (mainly matte and ore under
treatment) were valued at £10,820 ; so the'financial posi-
tion, though not strong, is fairly satisfactory. The fuel
supply has always given a lot of trouble ; and the tram-
way ought to reduce costs. Much more attention
should, however, be given to the writing down
of these assets. As to ore reserves, the directors say:
“During the year we appointed Mr. Blakemore, late of
Cobar, as consulting engineer. His investigations, as re-
ported to us, have in every way verified the forecasts
given by the manager, Mr. Mulligan, some years ago, as
regards the quantity of ore in the mine.” It would have
been much more satisfactory if Blakemore’s reports had
b ert quoted. Mulligan’s report says there are 30,086 tons
in sight compared with 27,560 tons 12 months ago, with-
out reckoning low-grade stuff. This is nearly three years’
supply at present rate of consumption. Mining expenses
are low ; all others are high. A very crude, matte-ing
process is in use ; but a blister furnace is in view, and it
seems certain that the co. will have to get in some capital
to buy it and other equipment. It could do with more
money anyhow. The Grafton was ridiculously boomed
a few years ago ; but it is a good, sound little mine—
probably the best in N.S.W. outside the Cobar country.
* * * *
Cope’s Creek Central (N.S.W.) has been having
a good time, and netted £5777 of profit, as compared with
£l3BO for the previous half-year. In the six months,
190,700 cubic yards of dirt returned 106 tons of tin oxide,
or an average of 1’241b. per cubic yard. The working
cost was 5‘36d. per yard. The ground has turned out
better than was anticipated from the boring, though
prospects ahead of the present face indicate poor ground.
The management, nevertheless, hopes for profits if tin
keeps up to its present dizzy height.
* * * *
Cobar Gladstone (N.S.W.) is still playing with
the property, baling water mostly. A drive is being put
in at just about water level, and a very narrow seam of
ore is showing in the face. But depth is wanted, and the
management won’t go down. It may be that the bulk of
the shares are heid by poor men who shy off calls.
* * * *
Mount Drysdale, Cobar district (N.S.W.), has
been getting some attention lately on account of reports
of strikes of rich ore in the bottom; but the outside
public should keep in mind that a new plant is required,
and also that the shares are to a great extent controlled
by one man. The property may be all right, but nothing
very striking in the way of management has been dis-
played yet.
•* « * *
Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), is re-starting
development work on its own account, and intends to
open up ground north of the shaft. Tributors’ returns
have looked good for some time past; nevertheless, there
was lately an application for reduced charges, so it seems
likely that average earnings have given the men no more
than decent wages, if that much. The tributors have
shown that payable stone extends where it was never
previously looked for, and development to the north may
likewise disclose another block of payable ground.
* * * *
Oaks Rush, the reefing 00. which followed the
last N. Queensland alluvial find, made £906 profit last
half-year ; and that and a call or two put £1282 in the
bank towards the cost of the 15-head battery, winding
plant, suction-gas engine, etc. The whole outfit will cost
about £2OOO. The 352 tons crushed during the half-year
at a public battery gave £2570 ; but of course the co.
has been picking. There isn’t much loz. or 2oz. ore in
reserve ; but there is a great quantity of sdwt. to 7dwt.
surface stuff handy to the battery, and that will keep the
pot boiling, provided the value comes up to the estimate.
The revived Stannary Hills (Q.) has started
crushing again ; and with tin concentrates worth over
£lOO per ton, it should have a chance to get on its feet. A
strong body has been developed in the Kitchener beloyv the
tunnel level ; unfortunately, the ore isp.vritic and will re-
quire roasting. Other sections are sending some fairly
good stuff to the mill; one lot from the Blackrock is
valued at 3 per cent.
* # * *
The little but rich St. Mungo copper mine,
Cloncurry, is the first show in that part of the world to
pay a dividend. It is owned by Cloncurry and Townsville
people, who draw6d. a share, with the promise of another
before long. Last year it sent 680 tons of 25'8 per
cent, ore to southern smelters ; and there are 1435 bags
more waiting for the camels to carry to the railway.
■K * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, has crushed
302 tons for £1343, an average of £4 Bs. lOd. per ton,
which doesn’t compare too well with the average of
£7 Bs. 6d. obtained last year. No. 5 level is now more
than 600 ft. east of Mills’ United boundary, and for
the last few days it has shown a strong reef fairly
heavily mineralised, and likely to add considerably to ore
reserves. There are some hundreds of feet ahead of No.
5 within the Mexican lease in the direction of the Victory ;
but the shoot isn’t likely to reach the Victory, and shares
in the latter are quoted at a few pence. The reef on the
west side of the shaft is also wider than was expected , so
altogether, in spite of the fall in grade of stone,
Mexican holders are feeling that life is worth living.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is now drilling at 2800 ft.,
and, in view of results obtained in the last 500 ft. of. sink-
ing, the management gets more nervous with each jab of
the drill. Interesting to note that 600 ft. of driving at
2659 fr. in this mine has failed to produce a single ton of
payable ore. *
Word comes from London via the West that
Lake View-Star intends to increase the capacity of its
mill to 17,000 tons a month, and try to pay Is. a year in
dividends. Both the co.’s properties are looking fairly
well, and the recent official estimate of 600,000 tons of
pay ore seems a fair enough estimate of actual and
probable stone in sight.
* * * *
Associated (W.A.) expects to have its re-organ-
ised plant running in March ; and, when capital expendi-
ture is wiped off, a monthly profit of about £2OOO is ex-
pected. Disheartened by results obtained from prospect-
ing in most other parts of the mine, the management is
now searching for something better in the vicinity of
Tetley’s old workings. A lot of telluride and high-grade
oxidised stuff is alleged to have been left standing in the
old stopes, while some of the filling is reckoned to be
worth over half an ounce. If these yarns prove to be
correct, the present struggle to keep up returns will be
lightened for a time.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) informs shareholders
that for the last financial year tributors’ proceeds, to-
gether with sundry other receipts, aggregated £23,554.
Working expenses, including tributors’ whack, amounted
to £21,073, leaving a gross surplus of £2480. From this
£1329 has been charged against depreciation and £594
against development, leaving £557 to carry forward. It
is quite believable that this mine will go on producing a
few thousand ounces of gold for years to come, but
shareholders are not likely to get. any of it.
* « * •
London Australian Exploration Co., which, as
Tiik Bulletin said once before, deals in mines and other
delusions, issued another dividendless report the other
day. A dull market was the excuse given for the co.'s
failure to make any money out of its Westralian specula-
tions, while its “new and valuable interests” ih the
Maikop Oilfields and elsewhere were said to be not as yet
sufficiently developed to earn profits. What with the pile
of Aqstralian rubbish the co. has in its safe, and the un-
certainty of getting clear titles from the Russian Govern-
ment for its Maikop shows, the outlook is not nearly so
bright as the report represents.
Letting himself go at the Oroya-Black Range
meeting, “ Hail Columbia ” Hoover said that, if the lodes
disclosed in the co.’s Youanme option continued in
depth, the mine would yield about 50,000 tons of qre for
every 100 ft. of sinking. He estimated the ore in sight
wouid yield a profit more than sufficient to recoup the
co.’s outlay to date ; and he as much as hinted that the
op ion would be completed. The Oroya Exploration is
halves in this venture.
Faced with a firewood famine, Kalgoorlie mines
started to burn coal —a mixture of Newcastle and Collie.
A railway from Kalgoorlie toEsperance would bring New-
castle coal into general use, and leave a few trees stand-
ing in W.A. for the use of posterity. But the Wilson
Government is against building the line because gold-
fields people might start to eat a potato or two from the
Eastern States, and thus stop Bunbury from being able
to charge what it likes for the goods.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) improved its position
last year, and must feel very comfortable. The cash and
bullion in hand amount to over £lOO,OOO ; while the co.’s
other more or less liquid assets are now worth a, good
deal. Added to this is the display of good ore in the
bottom of the mine, which is the most important point
of all.
* * * *
M., B. and Co.’s option on the Southern Cross
show, the Transvaal (W.A.), still hangs in the balance.
The pay shoot at 56ft., which was wholly oxidised and
of considerable length, has long since been sloped out,
and operations are now being carried on at 140 ft. Here
300 ft. of driving has shown the lode to be about 15ft.
wide, and worth about £3. The ore, however, is dense
sulphide, and carries about 30 per cent, of arsenical
pyrites. Whether it is safe to take on a mine of this sort
is a problem that the firm is still worrying over.
* * * *
Extracts from the report of a man who says he
has sampled nearly ever}' hole and corner at Bullfinch :
Proprietary : Some very rich ore is exposed in Nos. land
2 shafts, but a lot of the best stuff has been gouged out
and treated. Widths, values and reserves are greatly
exaggerated. Mine closed to independent experts.
Bullfinch Main Lode: Early reports spoke of ounces.
Best assay I could get was Id wt. Bell Bird : Said to have
from Aoz! to 2oz. ore. My highest assay was 12gr.
Birthday Gift: Failed to find the “good-looking lode”
admiringly referred to in official reports, but in its place
discovered a few feet of outcropping quartz and no gold.
Bullfinch South: The quartz outcrop on this area
is absolutely barren. Rowan’s Find: Someone recom-
mended a suitable treatment plant without delay. Visited
property a few weeks later, and saw some shallow
trenches, a shaft down 6ft. on 3ft. of stone, and five tons
of rock on the. surface. Bull Ant: Contains enough of
stringers to string shareholders on for a while, but in the
end they will probably lose all they put into it. Same
remark applies to Bullfinch East, which is vain enough to
believe that it is going to get one of the doubtful exten-
sions of the Bullfinch bonanza. Chaffinch : A trace to
2dwt. is all that can be got on this notorious show' at
present. Greenfinch: New'formation, recently described as
comparing favorably with any other at Bullfinch, is worth
about I2gr. Great Finch and Young Bullfinoh : Without
payable ore. Pine Hills: Unless indications are all w'rong,
the 12ft. of 2oz. quartz showing in the bottom of the
shaft will have no extension either laterally or in depth.
Pioneer: At present water-logged. No systematic
sampling has been done, and any yarn about it being of
value to the Pine Hill should be received with a whole
sackful of salt. Pine Hill South : Statement that Pine
Hill lode can be traced through the property is a fairy
tale. The ore body is cut off in a shaft just within the
southern boundary of the Pine Hill, and the only string
that Pine Hill Smith has to its bow is a barren flat-lying
quartz outcrop perched on top of a hill. Derwent Jack :
1 found the “lode and indications,” officially described
as being exactly similar to Bullfinch, to be as unlike the
Bullfinoh as they possibly could be, especially in the
matter of values.
* ■ , * *
The Bullfinch strikers not only wanted an in-
crease in pay, but asked also that there should be no
contract work for two years ; and that stipulation pat ted
the ways. Outside shows like the Young Bullfinch,
which are paying 11s. Bd. per shift, continued sinking
shafts on contract, and there was no row about it, which
complicates the situation. Kalgoorlie Chamber of Mines
tried to bring these smaller Bullfinch cos. into line with
the big chap, but failed because the prospecting cos. can’t
afford to stay idle. Both the market and the little share-
holders are clamoring for developments, or at least for
work, and work has to be done. Furthermore, the small
people with working options had to keep going or forfeit.
W.A. employs about 16,000 miners, and the new Yilgarn
and Bullfinch shows will require not far short of 3000 men
to man them. Kalgoorlie mine managers working on low
grade ore naturally do not want to see any fresh induce-
ments given to miners to leave Kalgoorlie ; so the strike
suited them all right—in fact, anything suits except the
offer of higher wages. However, the spokesmen for the
miners look like abandoning the anti-contract stipulation,
and if this is done the Bullfinch should soon be at work
again. Machinery for shaft equipment is on order or in
transit, and as soon as work recommences the main shaft
will go down 200 ft. as speedily as men can sink it.
* * * *
Phillips River'Gold and Copper Co. (W.A.)
reports another bad year. This time the loss is £55,420,
and, to smooth things over, the Board apologetically ex-
plains i hat the period must be looked on as one spent
in costly experiments and readjustment of plant. Pro-
duction fluctuated very much on account of this, and, to
make matters worse, the water supply gave out in the
second-last month of the year, and put a stop to all
operations except mining. Ever since its flotation this
co. has been making a sort of drowning man’s struggle to
get ahead of things ; but so far it has barely' earned
interest on what it owes. The country has benefited by
the work, but shareholders haven’t.
■* * * *
A large and interesting scandal is hopefully
awaited by Victorian mining directors in connection with
rumors that four well-known mining men in Ballarat, two
of them being ex-members of Parliament, are under a cloud
in connection with something relating to a Government
grant to a Ballarat mine or mines. The rumors state that
warrants were issued for the arrest of the aforesaid gentle-
men, but were hung up for repairs or something by poli-
tical influence, and some vulgar-minded M.P. is making a
noise about, it outside, and says he will also make it in the
House. The present burning question in mining circles
is “ Which?” And, as the one thing that is urgently not
wanted in Ballarat mining centres is Justice, there is con-
siderable shuddering in that centre ; for, once such nasty
things as inquiries start, no one knows where they will
end.
« * * *
Frenchman’s Reef, Daylesford (Vic.), has had
its patch of clover lately; and, of course, the clover is
going to last for ever or thereabouts. It certainly has
been a good patch ; on a capital of £13,417 a profit of
£7464 is alleged to have been made. “Alleged” because
(1) the sale of part of the co.’s territory has been
credited to Profit and Loss account, which looks im-
proper ; and (2) nothing has been written off to cover
wear and tear and depreciation, which also looks
the same way. The directors say: “ There was an
amount of £5437 to the debit of working account at June
30, representing expenditure on the development of the
mine ; the directors have considered it advisable that this
amount be written off to Mine account ... in order to
show clearly the profit of each half-year.” To make the
present profit the co. has been spending- a lot of money' ;
but it isn’t going to regard that as money spent in, or
as a charge against, production. In just the same way' a
farmer who had ploughed his land and cultivated it and
sown it might refuse to reckon all that as a charge
against the crop. If his crop yielded £lOOO, he would on
this principle say: “It cost me £2OO to reap the crop
and market it; therefore my profit was £800.” If he
yelled that at the top of his voice, and sold his farm on
the pretence that he had made £BOO profit, it is quite
possible that the Law would talk to him severely. In
mining, however, any' cranky finance seems permissible.
* * * *
Central Red, White and Blue shoves the
Bendigo chariot along as fast as the public will allow.
The co. now has gold at 218 ft., and a dour press crowd
which pulls metropolitan and local strings is constrained
to admit that the stone is good and the status of the
claim enhanced. Central Blue is the only pebble on
the beach just now, and, may be, it is policy to throw a
little sand on it to hide its glory. The new strike means
that, the neck of the saddle has been hit; and 100 ft. of
good grade backs assure the continuation of divs. More-
over, its length seems certain, seeing that the stone must
be connected with the shoot which is being worked so
profitably by the Lansells on their LittlelSO. Ifgoodgold
could be spotted on the 700 ft. reef of that claim, what a
boom Sheepshead stocks would put up !
* * * *
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.), is
stirring its pot pretty hard without finding much left in
it. The co. exploited one of the richest shoots of gold
in the Cabbage Garden. Divs. came as frequently as
other co.’s calls. So cocksure were the directors that
they had Nature with them that they actually preached
that the lode was going to forsake its true course and
bend back into the lease. Even when the awakening took
place and the shoot of gold petered out, the same cock-
sure spirit was manifest about the North Tunnel mine.
Here the Extended riches were to be repeated. But 100
tons gave only 70z., and further prospecting hardly gave
a trace. So now the co. is up against a dead-end. The
directors would like the neighboring Tunnel crowd to let
them see if the shoot of gold pitches into the Consols mine.
But H. E. Rowe and Dawson aren’t built that way, and a
polite No went through the post. So the Extended has
to try if it can pick up gold in the stone left by Dicky
Noble at 1400 ft. That veteran generally made a clean
sweep of his levels, so The Bulletin doesn’t rely much on
this prospect. With an overdraft beginning and little
capital to call up, it needs a stout heart to still believe in
the Extended’s luck. Why doesn’t the co. have a shot at
the old ?
* * * *
The half-yearly report shows that the Lord
Nelson, St. Arnaud” (Vic.), is not dead yet. The mill
return was 4dwt. 13gr. from 15,649 tons, and cyanide
bullion 1140 oz. from 19,540 tons. It is evident that a
good deal of the accumulated stock of tailings is going
through ; but there is the usual reticence as to how much
is obtained from the old tailings and how much from the
new. In a centre where gold may go as high as £4 per
oz. and as low as 155., it is also a pity that such an old
and honorable co. as the Lord Nelson should not set Vic-
toria an example by reporting its returns in £ s. d. in-
stead of oz. and dwt.—terms which convey sometimes
quite unwarrantable meanings. What with silver-copper-
gold products from battery plates, and silver-copper-
zinc-gold, etc., from cyanide plants, it is about time that
all Australia adopted the £s. d. principle. The remarks
of some of the shareholders in the Lady Nelson, St.
Arnaud, who had bought on the strength of the crushings
returning 12dwt., when they learned from the half-yearly
report that the gold was only worth £2 6s. per oz., may
still be remembered.
It * * *
Briseis (Tas.) profits for the June-Septetnber
quarter dropped to £7OOO, against £27,000 for the pre-
ceding six months, a fact that explains a lot so far as the
share market goes. With tin now risen to £195 Briseis
will get £34 per ton more for its shipments. There
are generally 70 tons on the water, so this means a bit
on the road to pay for Ringarooma overburden work.
That job is as slow as quarrying at Pentridge. What
would hap things a lot would be for Lindesay Clark to
hustle ori the Krushka flat, using it as a pot-boiler to
check drawings on the reserve cash. Then the co.’s
Wallace dredges, at Yackandnndah, have to shove into
better ground to justify either Clark’s or Currie’s re-
commendation. The price given for the area was too
high. For the nine months the Nos. 1 and 2 dredges have
earned roughly about £56 each per month. Taking
Bright costs as a standard, this won’t more than pay the
way. The new dredge has been started, but no one
knows whether it is doing well save Lindesay Clark, and
he doesn’t whisper secrets except to the London en-
gineers.
* * * *
At Wallaroo and Moonta (S. A.) the lode found
in the crosscut at 2430 ft. vertical carries ore of fair
quality, but it is rather narrow, and about 12ft. further
from the shaft than was expected from the posi-
tion of the ore body in the levels overhead. At the
2300 ft. level the ore is worth 4 per cent, and is wider
than the drive. Thesg are the deepest workings.
* * * *
The fall in Waihi (M.L.) shares during 1910
clipped over 2£ millions off the market value of the
stock. Grand Junction, next door, with its new- tube
mills, reckons to raise its output for 1911 to about
£174,000, an increase of £40,000. There is, however, only
18 months’ ore in sight—which isn’t enough to convince
anybody that Grand Junctions are quite the best thing to
put the widow’s mite into;
* * * *
Manager Pemble, of the Kulamadau (Papua),
has resigned, and Tom Hooper, from Pfeiffer’s Day Dawn,
Charters Towers, has been appointed. One of the direc-
tors will accompany the new man to Woodlark. For six
months the mine produced £11,788 from 4509 tons, the
average extraction being £2 12s. 3d. per ton. The total
profit was £4353. The recent sixpenny dividend cost
£3125, which is a lot of money for a small mine, and
makes one sniff at the talk of frequent dividends.
* •* * *
W.K.R. : Ask the British vice-consul, Noumea,
New Caledonia Dendro : Ask again in a couple of
months, though we don’t care about advising that way at
any time.
* * * *
The Commission appointed to inquire into the
alleged unsafety of the Great Fitzroy (Q.) comes as a
result of the dissatisfaction on the part of the men below
who have to take the risk. Way back in March last a
fall of 1500 to 1800 tons, and an accident, set the miners
thinking of Mount Morgan’s biff smashes, The pigsty
method of timbering- then came in for some rough crib-
time criticism ; and the remarks have been getting so
warm that the Commission seemed the easiest and
cheapest way of restoring silence.
* * * *
Small show's give a little more sparkle to North
Queensland reports. The Stella, nearTrvinebank, crushed
382 tons for £'5422 worth, of tin ; and an old show known
as the Pompeii crushed 87 tons for 21 tons, 12ewt. of
oxide, valued at £1442. Both of these' mines have been
swallowed by' John Moffat’s Irvinebank Tin Co. The
prospectors of the Pompeii new shoot received £lOOO.
*** * i
Papua continues to be the ugly duckling of the
Commonwealth. Rubber hasn’t made good yet, and
mining is in a precarious state. Maekay’s exploration
part.v discovered coal, and its report suggested a large
fuel-bearing formation. The Federal Government intends
making investigations, and to that end is sending up a
geologist from the Ma State’s staff in February.


i
m,
Csteb
1818
D
D
D
O
D
o'
a,
My dad says so long as a man
sticks to tea he’s alright—Mum
says she wishes he would him-
self, then we’d be better off than
we are.
If 1 was a big man ’stead of
a little girl I’d drink a lot of
Robur tea and be better off
—wouldn’t you?
Girlie ,
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1800, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, January 30, 1911.
Mr Dear Arini,—
There was no face to the waters on Anniversary
Day. It was blotted out by rain that plunged
heavily without one minute’s cessation from
before one dawn to the next. Everything festive
but the regatta was put off. Someone told me
that there were three persons seen in the city and
that they had rather duck-billed faces and walked
as if their feet were webbed. By the papers of
next day we learned that the regatta, very like a
wet funeral, had been held, and that Judge Back-
house, at the luncheon on board the flagship, let
loose the herd of stories he had been yarding for
the past 12 months. He was ten shades brighter
than the weather, which was mole-colored.
Mrs. Ernest Watt is on the Orontes on the way
to Australia. Her husband, one of the Gilchrist,
Watt and Sanderson Blue Funnel people, has
been here for some time. The worst of the Blue
Funnel line is its propensity for burdening its
vessels with Trojan and Greek names hard tomemo-
rise and difficult to pronounce—Aeneas, Anchises,
Ascanius and Protesilanus. As for the last, when
I go to book a berth in it I shall not be able to
remember its elegant label and shall be sure to say :
“Gimme a berth in the ship named after the first
man killed on the Greek side in the Trojan war.”
However, the very pretty Mrs. Watt isn’t to
blame in this matter. Other returners are Dr.
and Mrs. (Irene Marks) George Yivers. They are
in the Makura.
The Aeneas had a tea-party last Friday that
introduced her to Sydney society. She (it is
ridiculous to have to call the namesake of the
Arms-and-the-Man hero “she”) is a debutante,
and the trip from Liverpool was her maiden voy-
age. But she has the tonnage, poise and self-
possession of an old dowager of the sea. And her
dressing of white and saxe blue was most suit-
able to “bud” boat. Sydney society made
its way in scores to an awful place at Miller’s
Point, and found the fair stranger cuddling up to
the wharf with directors Milne and Storey and
the captain (Walker) waiting to receive and in-
troduce them to her ladyship. The beautiful purser
with delphinium blue eyes, fenced by two glass
conservatories, must be a valuable asset of the
company’s. He led batches of guests over the
boat, and on to the tea, and never once was
stirred by their enthusiasm out of his Clarence
Vere de Vere attitude.
“This,” said one of my party as we boarded
the vessel—“this is the mercantile marine. Here,
no doubt, we shall find the ‘breeziness and ardor’
that we so miss in the naval officer.” We didn’t.
Ihe attitude of the stalactite (which looks coldly
and rigidly down) and the pose of the stalagmite
(which looks coldly, rigidly upward) were strictly
preserved by officers and stewards respectively.
One of the former showed signs of thaw for a hr.lf
second ; but it was with indignation. A girl
said : “ Oh, your steamers go round by the Cape.
None of them is top-heavy, I hope. You
know what happened to the”- “No, I don’t
know,” he interrupted. “No one does. But this
is the Blue Funnel, not the Blue Funk, line.”
Wherever you go these days you’ll hear little
talk that is not about clothes for long-distance
travel wear. Those who are making the trip to
Europe for the first time show a famished eager-
ness for information from the travelled. A young
Mrs. Merino and husband, who are going “ to get
therein time for the Coronation,” and who have
not yet been out of Australia, asked Mrs. Black-
Wool, the much-travelled, “How many shirts
doesyourbusband take for the trip to London? I’ve
fixed a" about my own clodies; now I’m worried
about Dick’s.” •'lie takes 70,” was the reply;
“he finds that number quite sufficient. But my
brother-in-law, who is coming with us this time, is
taking 80. You see, we do not get any washing
done until our journey’s end.” Partial collapse of
Mrs. Merino, who had thought that a shirt a day
would be enough for Dick.
Apropos of the shirt-subject: In The Triad
of January there is a humorous suggestion for a
new way of reckoning distance. “ England to Aus-
tralia, eight shirts : Sydney to Wellington, half a
shirt; Wellington to Lyttelton, no shirt.” It was
evolved through a millionairish old Scotsman
telling the Triad man: “I’ve booked ma pas-
sage by the P. and 0. boat in February for th’
auld country. It’s a nuisance on these boats,
because a mon has to dress, ye ken. Ah weel, I
do it on eicht shirts.”
I wonder if the 80-shirts man holds any
communion with the eight-shirts passenger?
Probably yes, if the latter is a millionaire. In
fact, only a very rich man would be game to tell
that he had done the journey with so few shirts.
Mrs. S. A. Rhodes, of Wellington (M.L.), a
Lady qf St. John of Jerusalem, goes by the Ton-
gariro in March to coronation parts; the A. E. G.
Rhodes, of Ch. Ch., leave in March ; and as for
Moorehouse and Studholme departees, their bag-
gage is obstructing the traffic.
Three other Australians—a gentleman, his wife
and her sister—who paid £5O each for seats to
view the Edward VII. coronation procession, are
going to see the June procession, but with a differ-
ence. “ We’ll get a capital view of this one from
the top of its head to the tip of its tail,” says one
of the ladies,” and we’ll get it for a shilling each—
from a cinematograph!” That is how they got
their only ieally satisfactory view of the last
Coronation junketings, notwithstanding their
expensive but obscured seats.
Mrs. Sargent, of Sargents’, Ltd., is amongst
those who “are going to be there” in June.
Mrs. Forsyth, of Dudley (N.S.W.), was hunting
four days a week with the Quorn and Belvoir
when the last British files left for these parts.
Except one or two professional riders, no local
woman could do Australia more credit among
horsey folk overseas. Lord Lonsdale, when he
was here staying with the Northcotes, pronounced
the Forsyth seat the nearest thing to perfection,
in its line, that had met his eye.
Which reminds me that John Gar van, of the
M.L.C. life-insurance office, is going to Europe in
a few months openly and frankly to play polo.
Early in his days Mr. Garvan was dropped
into the life office which his father had
founded, and since then he has had only
three interests in life : positive, his polo ;
comparative, his mother ; superlative, his
office. His mother has just left for London ; the
office can now spare him and his tremendous
energy for a while ; so he decides that, before he
gets too old to play his one game well, he would
like to measure himself, asafront-rank Australian
player, with the front-rankers of other countries.
Hence he begins to get a few things together for
the tournament.
In the list of passengers by the incoming Mace-
donia is the Marchioness of Donegal. This must be
the young mother of the seven-year-old Marquess
of Donegal. She was the daughter of a Halifax
gentleman named Twining, and became the third
wife of the late Marquess in 1902, he being then
about 82 years of age. Present Marquess was born
the following year. His mother is said to be an
extra-good-looker.
Mr. and Mrs. Alec Thomson—he is of the Syd-
ney Bar—are on the Macedonia, returning here
on February 9, from a holiday trip to Colombo.
Mr. B. It. Wise has been at Menzies’, in Mel-
bourne, for the past few days. He leaves aboard
the Osterley, for Fremantle, where he will meet
Mrs. Wise, returning to Sydney with her in the
Macedonia on February 9.
“ What a rush of girls there is to secure meal-
tickets before Lent,” said the rude man on the
tram footboard. And none of the haughty-faced
passengers (pretending they weren’t listening)
would have known what he meant if he hadn’t
added: “Why, I've got three girl cousins who
are getting married next month.” So the man on
the tram step looks upon the man on the altar
steps as a “meal ticket.” It is true that a
number of men are giving up the one person
singular life and appropriating young blessings.
The two Yon der Heyde sisters wed in February ;
and the Prowse-Brady nuptials are for the
same month. Invitations are out. Mr. Tom
Lamb and Miss Reda Lingen—a daughter
of the well-known barrister—plight troths then,
too. Mr. Will Mere wether, the widower of
that name and brother-in-law of the bride-elect,
is giving the wedding festivity at Orielton. The
Hordern-Bingham marrying is another—an end-
of-the-month fixture; but it is a Melbourne
matter.
Wasn’t it Mrs. Browning who made poetical
reference to a girl’s bridal as “the white funeral
of the single life?” Well, the old order of the
bride going to church, all in white and in nothing
but white attire, is changing, yielding place to
colors. Miss Mackinney, who next Saturday
marries Dr. Ashe, a Macquarie-street dentist, is
the first Australian maiden bride, so I’m - told, to
come out of the snowdrift and trail a blush-rose
lined train and wear a petal of the same
tender pink in satin over the heart side of
her corsage. The white satin train is turned
back on itself at one shoulder, showing
undisguised pink, and again at one of the lower
corners it is folded back like a triangular pink
billy-doo or a three-cornered tart. White cord
and silver tassels are in the white and pink con-
spiracy ; the. pink on the bodice is veiled, and the
front of the skirt is draped diagonally with a lace
scarf—a Brussels Exhibition prize.
That good-looking Adelaide girl, Miss Jean
Martirf, who used to wear Court robes so success-
fully in the “ Zenda ” Coronation scene when
Julius Knight was king, has married an engineer
named MacGrath. His job lies in British
Columbia.
Miss Flora Gordon, one of the three out-of-doors,
sun-browned, athletic young daughters of the
Gordons of Gragin station and Kamilaroi, Darling
Point, was married last week to another sport,
Mr. G. Sayers, a bank man. Instead of “ the
usual ” and orange blossoms, she wore a cap with
lilies of the valley, and her gown of white lace
was over a straw-tinted satin.
Bryce Carter, who plays the ’cello and teaches
the same instrument to Governor Chelmsford and
his daughter, was married last week to a Miss
Mabel Josephson.
Mrs. John Toohey, of Wahroonga, just back
from foreign parts, was immediately pounced
upon, set to work by other workers for charities,
and made president of the committee slaving for
the Pierrot Minstrels matinee, to occur at the
Palace Theatre on February 11. The theatre has
been generously loaned for the occasion by Mr.
Hugh Ward, and the matinee is in aid of the St.
Vincent’s General Hospital. In the kindly con-
spiracy are included Mrs. Rolleston, Mrs. Frank
Brown, Mrs. H. Marks, Mrs. Deery and her
daughter-in-law (who will play in the Pierrot
Minstrels), Mrs. G. L. Mullins, Mrs. Kenna, Mrs.
Barlow and Mrs. Barton. Miss Nea Mort and
Miss Austin are hon. secs., Miss Egan and Miss
K. Austin hon. treasurers. Mr. Sidney Stirling,
the well-known actor, will stage-manage the plays.
Nice-looking girls will sell programmes, and alto-
gether the 11th of next month ought to yield a
charming and money-making afternoon.
On Monday, February 6, a bridge and euchre
party will be held at Baumann’s in aid of the
refreshment stalls to be run at the All Nations
Fair for the Alfred Hospital. Mrs. Allen Taylor
is president of the refreshment stalls committee ;
and she and other ladies are arranging the party.
Mr. Randolph Radford—please don’t misread
that for Bedford —has left off managing one of
Sydney’s big restaurants in order to go to Europe
to look after the interests of daughter Wanda and
her promising musical career, The other day he
had a brief legal struggle with his late employers,
who alleged that he intended to disclose some of
the recipes which they bought with the “Miss
Bishop” business. Miss Bishop, in private life
Mrs. Van Epler, made a reputation and a snug
competency out of her fancy-cake making before
she sold out to the A.8.C., and the burning ques-
tion was “What’s the recipe?” In these days,
when there are tea-shops on every corner and
some in between, the formula, incantation or
what not whereby a certain brand of bun or biscuit
is made may mean fat dividends—until the fickle
public cools off. So the Court told Wanda’s
father that if he ever meant to pass the secrets on,
he mustn’t.
The Castles family is rising to higher things, as
persons of their aspiring name should. Young
George Castles, who has a tine voice and hasn’t
had much show to use it prominently, is to take
out a “Merry Widow’’company after Easter. Re-
port says that Amy Castles has found the money
for the venture, Eileen Castles is on her way
hither, and will play in the opera. So a friend
writes me. Evidently the arrangements for study
with Bouhy have failen through. , Eva Moore,
Carrie Moore’s sister, whp has been in America,
will be the widow in the opera; and Dave
O’Connor, the man who understudied Higginson
as Danilo, will be of the new association. The
new venture won’t be seen nearer this city than
Newcastle.
Nellie Stewart and her daughter Nancy are at
the Oxford, after an exhaustive and money-making
tour of M.L. with “Nell Gvvynn.” They were
at the Royal on Saturday, looking fresh as young
ti-tree. (When it’s in flower, of course. The rest
of the time it’s too dull a green to be used in
a complimentary sense.) During her incessant
travelling to one-night towns Miss Stewart
made a frock for herself of linen—fine as
ninon—and embroidered it with cunning art.
Such industry under such unfavorable circum-
stances ! Miss Nancy is in the orchestra.
A postcard from Bel Sorel: “Arrived after
a miraculously tine and pleasant passage of
33 days. Had a masked ball and concerts on
board. My people are wild with joy at beholding
the fair souvenirs 1 have brought from the adored
Australia.”
Dr. Charles Harris, who leads the army of
music-makers known as the Sheffield Choir, must
have great faith in Australia as an appreciator of
music. Take the maintenance of some 250 men
and women for six months, at the fairly low esti-
mate of a pound a day—it will mean nearly
£40,000. And this will not include advertising
and concert-running expenses.
Hon. Maurice Vyner Baliol Brett, second son of
Viscount Esher, who lately married Miss Dare, a
stage maiden, is a Coldstream Guardsman, of
eight-and-twenty years. He was A.D.C. to
General French at Aldershot. He is a sort of
faint connection of our Governor-General, an aunt
having married Mr. William Humble Dudley-
Ward.
Mr. Arthur Mason, who was once our City
Organist, and afterwards, whilst in London, dis-
tinguished himself as a writer, is back in Sydney
after three years residence by the Thames. He is
looking like a Grammar School top-form boy.
Asked how he managed it, he.replied he didn’t.
It was the climate. Well, at the rate
we in Sydney are being rained upon, the
personal rejuvenation of the adult inhabitants
ought to be quite apparent when the downpour
ceases. Last Friday, a record wet day, many of
the misusses who employ the immigrant damsel
asked their employees: “ This weather reminds
you of London, I suppose?” “Oh, no! The
rain is not nearly as heavy there. It just drizzles.
This is a worse climate than England for rain,
only it’s not cold here and not grey.” As a matter
of fact, London has a poor little annual average
rainfall of 24in. —and we in Sydney have already
had 16in. this web-footed month.
Who is Miss Osca Marah, described as a
“young Australian singer,” now appearing at the
Hippodrome in London ? Says the London Daily
Mail : “ She is delighting large audiences with
an exhibition of some really flawless vocalisation.
Miss Marah, who appeared some time ago at the
Bechstein Hall, has a rich powerful soprano, with
a wide range, and possesses in addition the rare
gift of tonality.” Elsewhere, her good stage-pres-
ence and command of several foreign languages are
matters of favorable comment.
The woman bill-poster is said to have arrived in
Sydney ; she was seen pasting up the emblems of
her calling outside the Palace Theatre last week.
So now things are nicely rounded off, and every
kind of woman has arrived barring the domestic
servant. It may be objected that the Bishopess,
the Popess, and the Dogess of Venice are still
missing, but there have been plenty of women
clerics and women rulers of one kind and another,
so that my sex has not neglected these lines of in-
dustry. All we want now is the domestic servant,
and then woman will have fulfilled the complete
orb of her destiny.
The new Dilke baronet is well known to Syd-
ney folk. He was here as Mr. 0. Wentworth
Dilke a decade ago, partly for health, partly for
diversion. He possessed a pretty wit, but if he
had any of his father’s genius he kept the fact
hidden carefully from the general eye.
Dr. Hordern, the N.S.W. bowler, who drove
the Victorian batsmen into the gloom of the
Sydney Cricket Ground pavilion last Satur-
day as though his googlies had been so many
flaming swords, created a sensation in other
than the athletic sphere. He appeared in
what I am told is the latest cry or shriek in
“sweaters.” Snowy white it was, and most
divinely shaped, more especially in the region of
the waist. It buttoned up the front, and was put
on and taken off by its proud owner about 700
times in the course of the afternoon.
A Sunday paper, telling reverently how the
players in shows like “Miss Gibbs” laboriously
study the “ types ” they portray from everyday
life—thus disposing of the common theory that
the types are faithfully copied from Callan Park-
said
For example, Mr. Andrew Higginson, as a one-time
R.N. cadet, always puts the breeziness and ardor of the
naval man into his work.
Now, how many of us have encountered that rare
fowl, the breezy naval man ? In my opinion he
is a Blandoltian myth, like his colleagues, the
scarlet-clad adventuress and the injured heroine’s
angel che-ild. The naval man who pervades these
waters is stiff and formal. He shuns any hint of
breeziness lest the uninstructed should mistake
him fora holiday-making shop-assistant. Breezi-
ness he regards as the worst of “ bad form.” His
pose, in the public eye, is that of the cold and
blase worldling. The younger he is the more
aggravated his chilly cynicism. In many eases
he even goes so far as to aim at the splendid im-
passivity of a Rosebery Park jockey-boy, and not
seldom he has been known to score a bulls’-eye.
Mrs. Stout, wife of the O.Ji of M.L., has a
capital article in the English paper, Votes for
Women. She does not say much that in-
formed Australasians don’t already know ; but
after mentioning that M.L. women have had the
vote for 18 years, she remarks of present-day con-
ditions in her Island-home :
We have the highest marriage rate (no anti-women or
anti-men there), the lowest death-rate and the lowest in-
fant mortality in the world. We have the only increasing
birth-rate in the civilised world. The annual natural
increase of population in France is 1*42 ; in England and
Wales, 12T3 ; in the German Empire, 14'44 ; in Aus-
tralia, 15-00; in Maoriland, 17.60. The enfranchised
countries take the lead of Germany—surely evidence
enough to satisfy even an anti (or uncle) Suffragist that
our homes are not deserted or our children neglected.
One sympathiser with the Cause writes, quietly
sarcastic, to the Cause paper saying that he was
interested to learn from his morning journal that
the magistrate at Bow-street put Mr. Winston
Churchill’s window at a higher value than the
Home Secretary’s person, by giving the woman
who broke the window two months’ imprison-
ment, while the man, for trying to horsewhip the
Home Secretary, got only six weeks.
A characteristic of the British aristocrat is his
whole-hog method of going bankrupt. For
example, at the London Bankruptcy Court, last
month, the Hon. Rupert Craven, described as of
White’s Club, St. James-street, filed his schedule.
His assets consisted of “ two sporting rifles, to
which he attached no value.” At about the same
time another young man of family gave up the
hopeless battle to maintain an appearance of
solvency, and confided to the Receiver that
all he had wherewith to appease his ravening
creditors was one gold cigarette case. The en-
nobled Briton takes little shame, seemingly, of a
trifle like a bankruptcy in the family. The' Hon.
Rupert, above mentioned, is second heir to the
Craven earldom. His brother, the present earl,
married Miss Bradley-Martin, a U.S. A. million-
airess. The annual upkeep of one of their fleet of
motors would amount to more than the income on
which the insolvent was driven to subsist; and
the purchase-price of any one of these road-craft
would have sufficed to square the unhappy
Rupert with his creditors. The troubles of
Rupert were, however, nothing to the Earl. The
middle-class man looks at things differently. He
would economise in cigars or cab-fares to shield a
near relation from the bankruptcy stigma, and do
it with what might almost be termed alacrity.
The Christmas issue of London World is
largely Australian. Most of the illustrations are
by Will Dyson, and a lengthy revue in prose and
verse, dealing with the social and political hap-
penings of the year, is by Dorota and Theodore
Flatau. These young people are Sydneysiders who
left home to make their fortunes in London about
four years ago.
I see that 70 of the most notable comic artists
of France, led by the famous Lbandre and Will-
ette, announced their intention of striking last
month unless they got better pay. It moves. We
shall yet see Judges refusing to gaol people, and
anti-Socialist editors declining to consider the
letters of “ P’familias ” and “Constant Reader,”
unless their salaries are hoisted on the spot.
The misguided person who wants to gain the
respect and goodwill of Manly by reporting
sharks in the offing should take along two wit-
nesses, a biograph operator and a J.P. By faith,
the surfer has almost succeeded in wiping out the
name of the sea-tiger from the local lexicon ;
and, though he is reluctantly forced to admit
that it has an outside-the-breakers chance, he
hates to be reminded of the swift, silent
thing that is all mouth, teeth and holding
capacity. Nevertheless there are sharks, and
they don’t always “know their places.” Re-
cently two girls went in for a swim at Fairy
Bower, the sheltered little ocean beach near
the surfers’ favorite spot. They were just
wading out when there came a warning
shout from a man on the esplanade close
by. One of the bathers immediately turned in
shoulder-deep water and discovered an immense
fin a few yards behind. The startled girl plunged
for the shore and just scrambled clear as a 15-foot
shovel-nose shot in like a torpedo and stranded
himself. Then he flapped and struggled back into
the sea and swam off to join his twin destroyer,
throwing a floating butter-box into the air as he
went, just as a very mad man might kick a dog.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Vice-Regal
Jewellers,
DESIGN
QUALITY,
VALUE
WEDDING PRESENTS.
BRIDESMAIDS’ GIFTS.
Whole Pearl, Peridot and Ruby Pendant, In Case, £5.
Fine Gold Necklet, £l/15/-
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
SELECTIONS SENT
ON APPROVAL.
Showrooms s
13 Hunter St., Sydney;
AND
118 Queen St., Brisbane.
London Address: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS.
500,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
Bookstall Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia. Price 1/- each, post free 1/3.
Just Published —“THE HAUNTED SHANTY.”
By THOS. E. SPENCER (Author of “How McDougall Topped the Score,” etc.).
Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
T° those who already know Mrs. Bridget McSweeney, good old McDougall, and the host of other happy
creations of Mr. Spencer, there is no need of any formal introduction. To those who are not familiar with these good
people we would say : ‘ Get a copy of ' The Haunted Shanty' at once, and you will acknowledge the author to be as
good a storyteller as he is a poet or a humorist." The weird, mysterious creepy feeling that surrounds " The Haunted
Shanty " gives place in turn to rollicking mirth, broad humor, and clever national character drawing, as German
Australian, Scotch, English and Irish are paraded for your delectation. Decidedly this is a book to buy and keep.
“THE SURPRISING ADVENTURES OF MRS. BRIDGET McSWEENEY.”
By THOS. E. SPENCER (Author of “How McDougall Topped the Score”).
Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
Those who have already made the acquaintance of Mrs. McSweeney, and know how entertaining she is, will be
pleased to meet her again. Her native wit is so keen yet kindly that you thoroughly enjoy her escapades, and vote her a
splendid companion for a dull afternoon. The adventures make first-class readings for an evening entertainment.
“THE MARE with THE SILVER HOOF,”
By 808 ALLEN.
Illustrated by Percy F, S. Spence. Paper Cover, Price 1 /-/ Postage 3d.
The average Australian loves equally a good woman and a good horse, and any story that
combines the two is sure to appeal to him.
Here we have a succession of thrilling incidents—love, jealousy, intrigue, revenge, horse-
racing and turf swindling—told by a man who has evidently been through the mill himself,
and who knows what he is talking about. The air of mystery surrounding the maniac who
haunts the country house is worthy of Edgar Allan Poe, and the “manner ” in which the Mare
with the Silver Hoof saves her fair mistress at the eleventh hour is a triumph of book-craft.
NEW edition “THE SPRING CLEANING”
By Mrs. BRIDGET McSWEENEY (Thomas E. Spencer),
Author of “ How McDougall Topped the Score. ”
With Six full-page illustrations by Cotton. Paper Cover, Price H- ; post free, 1/3
Mr. Spencer’s versatility is one of his chief charms, and Mrs. McSweeney is his happy medium. Her experiences,
told in her own inimitable way, keep you rippling with laughter from cover to cover, and although the book contains 174
pages, one is inclined to ask for more. Each sketch is complete in itself and admirably fitted for reading or recitation.
Sydney Morning Herald. —" Mrs. Bridget McSweeney is a delightful old lady, and her surprising
adventures are told with much dramatic power."
Daily Telegraph. —" The breezy humor is always appreciated.”
NOTE. —"The Spring Cleaning " and "How McDougall Topped the Score" may be had in a
combined volume, bound in full cloth, for 3/6. Suitable for Presentation.
NEW EDITION.
“HOW McDOUGALL TOPPED THE SCORE,”
And other Verses.
By THOMAS E. SPENCER.
With Six full-pace illustrations by Lionel Lindsay.
Paper Cover, price H- ; Post free, 113.
This Series of recitations is. beyond question, the most popular collection that has yet
appeared in Australia. The majority of the pieces are delightfully humorous and specially
adapted for the platform or the social gathering. The first edition was a decided success,
and the issue of this cheap edition should make the name of Spencer a household word.
The Australian press was unaminous in praise of " McDougall," and he is to be found in
splendid company.
World’s News. —“ This admirable work is of a very high standard."
Sydney Morning Herald. —" A fine collection of first-class recitations."
Daily Telegraph. —“ Sure to be popular."
«HOW j
*> ffdoucAia
TOPPED ,
• THE
SCORE".!
Thos F, Spcnttr
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
And all Branches and Booksellers.
Antonio Scotti’s Judgment
of the
STECR PIANOLA PIANO.
The Pianola Company, New York.
Gentlemen,
Permit me to congratulate you on the impressive list of
artists endorsing the Pianola, as published in the daily papers
yesterday. I observe that you use my name, and I rather
flatter myself that I was one of the first to recognise the Pianola
as a serious musical instrument. That must have been nearly six
years ago. And since then, what great progress you have made.
The Themodist and Metrostyle are wonderful improvements
indeed. I used to think all Piano-players were very much
alike, but now I understand the points of difference, and can
appreciate why the Pianola is so vastly superior to any other
instrument of the kind. It is no wonder you have had
such great success with the musical profession, as well as the
public. Faithfully yours,
A. SCOTTI.
In musical circles it is considered somewhat of a distinction to have been among the first
to have recognised the great future that awaited the PIANOLA* A reflection of this sentiment
is indicated in the accompanying letter from the celebrated baritone, Antonio Scotti.
New inventions —those representing radical departures from old methods —usually have to
pass through long years of prejudice arid scepticism. Not so with the PIANOLA. It stepped
almost immediately into the favor of professional musicians, as well as the public.
To-day there is hardly a musician of note anywhere in the world who has not taken
occasion to say a word of praise in favor of the PIANOLA. Equally notable is the fact that
this great volume of praise is not divided with any of the numerous imitators of the
PIANOLA, but it is confined to the one instrument which, by common consent, is recognised
as supreme in its particular field.
WARNING. —The name “PIANOLA" is not a general name for any and all Piano-players;
but applies exclusively to the instrument made fay the Pianola Company. If you want the
PIANOLA'S efficiency, you must have the PIANOLA itself. Write and ask for Catalogue “C."
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
357 Georg'e St., Sydney
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.


QALDWELL’S
High Quality INKS.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Brickfield Hill, Sydney
Do not go to the expense of calling in a doctor
when you sprain your ankle. Bathe your foot
and ankle in water as hot as can be borne and rub
in Chamberlain’s Pain Balm freely. Repeat the
rubbing several times, and in two or three days
you will be able to get about, and will be quite
cured jp than a wegk.*
ALL
OF
■ US!”
“Are agreed that
indlfferen e to
our personal
appearance ac-
counts for much
of the discomfort
that is the result
of endeavoring
the impossible by
inferior means.
Consciousness of
personal charm is
governed by the
mind, which re-
fuses to entertain
any attempt at
self- exaggera-
tion.
“ Bach of the
models of the
famous French
O (/>
P.D
9
ROYAL
‘P.D.
RUSTLESS CORSETS
so beautifies the natural figure as to
charm your mind with a glowing sense of
satisfaction—thus you feel a true and
healthy womanly pride in yourself which
makes for your happiness.
“ Yours sincerely,
“A Royal ‘P.D.’ Model.”
“You will find Plenty of New
Models at all Drapers.”
TRADE
&
MARK.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 30, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The G.G. pair have leased the Wilson home-
stead, Ercildoone, for a space. It is a favorite re-
treat. Lady Sarah Wilson rarely retreats there
herself; but Melba found joy in its garden and
its big, cool rooms. The Dudleys handed the
Prince on with one hand, while holding out the
other to the Duchess of Bedford, who railed over-
land from Port Adelaide, got off the express at
Ballarat or somewhere, and motored straight
along to Ercildoune, whereto the Dudleys had
previously petrolled to meet her.
Governor Carmichael and a party have braved
the intervening perfumes of Footscray and gone
to Altona, led by lawyer Croker, to inspect the
Altona brown coal mine. Dandy Croker’s inte-
rest in brown coal has made remote Altona quite
a fashionable resort lately. Probably on account
of the tyre-ruining roads, the cavalcade left the
motors in their garages and rushed out by special
train. I think any Melbourne shover would pro-
test if asked to steer a car thither since the
unlucky Altona aviation meeting. Scarcely a
motor which took part in that hunt arrived back
in good trim after its scurry over the rocky high-
ways that lead towards the wilderness.
His Ex., who is keen on seeing everything,
went down into the depths of the earth, and the
rest of the party dutifully followed. They wore
blue dungarees. I don’t know if the exquisite
Croker’s blueys were cut with a waist , but the
idea of his figure being muffled in formless gar-
ments is enough to make Collins-street and Flem-
ington weep on each other’s neck.
The. Carmichael lady, who has a small, sweet
niece called Mary, is rounding-up the thrup-
pences for the Queen’s Gift from the Maries who
are playing Lady Bountiful to the first lady in
England. One can hear King George anxiously
asking of his wife: “How much did you get in
to-day, Mary, my dear?” It must be a trying
time.
Gladys Chirnside —that fancy-free and wealthy
daughter of dead Robert Chirnside, whose mamma
married Justice Hodges some moons ago-—has a
happy way of using her freedom from home ties.
After the marriage of Mamma she went to England
and dwelt in a flat there with a decorous
young Fenner maiden as fellow-flatter. She came
out to Australia on the same boat as the Prince
and the Prince’s handsome medical attendant.
Arrived here, the Doctor “ took Miss Chirnside
in” at the small exclusive dinner given at Guv’-
ment House to the royal relative; and other sassiety
darlings are curling withenvy at thedoublehonor.
Miss Chirnside also bagged this medical attache
for the tea-party she gave as she swirled through
Melbourne. This tea-party was a hurrah of
flowers, and, after the frivol, the hostess bundled
the whole glorious mass into a taxi and sent them
to Mrs. King’s hospital—that swagger private
menderv at St. Kilda, wherein for a while she
played Nightingale. The energetic young woman
only spent long enough in Melbourne to be heart-
brokenly anxious over a sudden illness of brother
Russell, of the Chirnsides. Then, when the youth
became as suddenly well, she was off again—this
time to Sydney and Maoriland.
Everyone votes the Prince “ a nice-looking
chap—of course, very delicate,” as all his family
are. Terrible to have an “of course” like that
in the family.
The approaching marriage is announced of the
Marquis of Linlithgow, eldest son of our own
Hopetoun. The future Marchioness is Miss
Doreen Milner, who is a sort of a niece-twice-
removed of Lord Dicky Nevill and a niece of Lady
Henry Nevill, sister-in-law to Lord Dicky. Miss
Milner’s papa is Sir Frederick George Milner.
The bridegroom-elect is 23 years young, and the
bride a bud of 20.
Some Parliamentary people beside those in-
cluded in the invited detachment mean to
coronate in London. Willie Kelly and the
Fairbairns (Mrs. Willie is already in London)
are booked to depart soon ; they pick up the Big-
john Forrests at Fremantle. The party intends to
glance at the Nile on the way to Fogtown, and
inspect America on the homeward run.
The French flagship Montcalm had a magazine-
cbver day for steaming up our wide bay. The
smooth sea was a wonderful blue, and the long,
four-funnelled ship was white and grey in the
shadows. The summer beach-campers near the
Heads could see the glitter on Captain M’Guckin
de Slane’s buttons, and the ornament in the
Admiral’s hat. The alleged historical admixture
of the Gallic people and the Franks may be the
explanation of the captain’s name. A good old
Scotch M‘ before de Slane is like putting a haggis
before croquettes of lamb.
The first important bazaar meeting happened
last week, in a room somewhere in the Town Hall.
A gathering in the room of the Mayoress differs
considerably from a heart-to-heart talk with the
Gaud Mayor himself. The Mayor’s entertain-
ment is to the outsider a mysterious function,
with a subdued accompaniment of musical glasses,
from which issues an irregular procession of decor-
ous joviality. A Mayoress’s meeting is decorated
merely with pot plants and flowers. One or two
suave and elderly officials hang on in polite atten-
tion, and, if the Mayoress is socially inclined, tea
cups and cake and an imported maid appear
in one corner just when the discussion threatens to
get involved and sit on its own hat. On Monday the
tremendous business of appointing heads took an
hour. Mrs. Davey was herself appointed president.
Mrs. Godfrey was elected vice-president with
Mrs. Cooke for understudy. Mrs. Surgeon
O’Hara —in a big, round, black hat and a white
muslin dress, and looking like one of her own
daughters—was chosen to collaborate with Mrs.
Montague Cohen in holding the money bags.
Mrs. R. A. Cooper was urged to take a strong
grip of her jewelled fountain pen and be the
secretary. At this point a hot and anxious-eyed
company sat back and fanned itself and drank
tea. Then someone tapped nervously on the
table and remarked : “ What the Lady Mayoress
hAs decided so far is this.” Then people with
engagements slipped out quietly and left the
meeting still buzzing. Similar meetings will
ensue every second Monday until the great thing
happens.
President Mrs. Davey and Mrs. Vice-President
Godfrey have bearded the city in its office for the
cause. They advanced on Flinders-lane and
marched triumphantly from office to office. The
result was something in three figures just in loose
cash and cheques,
Artist John Longstaff, who returns shortly on
a visit, was, as a boy, employed in the warehouse
of Butler, Nichol and Son. His family did
not approve of his artistic aspirations, and he
smuggled his sketches out of sight when anyone
came along. One day the boss softgoodsman
caught the dark-eyed youth just finishing a rough
sketch. He at once recognised the genius of the
lad, and induced his family to let him take up art
seriously. Jack won the triennial travelling
scholarship at Melbourne National Gallery—the
first of the series—with his “ Breaking the News.”
When painting the “Sirens” for presentation to
the Gallery, in fulfilment of his contract, he spent
six weeks in a lonely French fishing village, to
get the effect of the spraying surf so wonderfully
painted in the picture. As a young student
Longstaff lived in East Melbourne. He was one
of the first to go in for the home-beautiful cult,
and the house where he lived was a dream of
artistic beauty. He married pretty Topsy Croker,
who was one of his fellow-students and his model
for the painting “ JeuneMere.” Their son Ralph,
the infant in the picture—he comes here with his
dad—has just won the highest award given for an
architectural design.
Christine Muir, the dark-browed young singer
who is keeping her end up in the Thames village,
belongs to a large Scotch clan which lived in East
Melbourne, and is a grandchild of the Rev. Dr.
Cairns, in whose memory a handsome church was
built by his admiring congregation. Perhaps the
fact that she was educated at the Scotchbyterian
College, where Melba once played round, had
something to do with her taking to public life.
Amy Castles has been shining in her native
Bendigo. She gave a concert to help the Watson
Fund for worn-out miners, and sang to the orphan
children of St. Aidan’s. Sternberg, M.L.0., who
is a pillar in the Golden City, did the honors, and,
on behalf of the citizens, presented her with a
sparkling specimen from one of the local mines.
Hilda Mulligan, a Sydney musical girl, is cut-
ting heaps of ice on the other side of the earth.
At latest advices she had just finished a to.ur of
Ireland, and was hurrying across to Germany to
fulfil a three years’ engagement with the Carl
Rosa Company in Berlin. A sister who has
played companion to her for several years is
turning to Australia ; and a younger sister tripped;
through Melbourne this week on her way to take
the vacant place of travelling confidante.
Kookaburra, the racehorse of “The Winning
Ticket,” lately won the Hawthorn Hurdles at
Caulfield. Eugenie Duggan speaks of him affec-A
tionately ; and he was so petted by other mem-
bers of the company and supplied with so many;
apples and lumps of sugar, that his trainer was
afraid he would be useless on the track. How-
ever, he disproved all that with his four speedy
legs. Says Eugenie : “At first I used to deliver
the Melbourne Cup speech to him ; but he worked
in so much comedy by prancing about that I had
to cut him out earlier. Professional jealousy
again, you see !” That Caulfield, win suggested a
pretty gift which was recently handed up to Mrs.
Anderson in “ The Christian ” —a golden slipper
filled with red and pink roses, tied with hubby’s
racing colors—blue and white. The pantomime
children of “The Old Woman Who Lived in a
Shoe ” were the givers.
Percy Collins, a Melbourne youth of great social
tonnage, lately distinguished himself by trium-
phantly passing his examinations at the Royal
Military Academy at Woolwich, thereby gaining
a commission in the Artillery. His father, who
held the rank of major, was formerly general-
manager in Australia for Reuter’s, and took a keen .
interest in local military matters.
James McLeod, late of the Age, is going to
London as chief officer of the Immigration
Department. McLeod, who was chosen from 200
applicants, considers the appointment in the light
of an honor to journalism. He will be missed
from the Age reporting staff, and the editor of
the Leader will mourn his departure whenever
he has business out of the office. The new Immi-
gration officer is a good relieving editor lost.
Sir T. Carlaw Martin, of the Scottish Commis-
sion, when speaking recently of the type of men
the Canadian Immigration people in London were
using, said they were all young and had had jour-
nalistic experience. Martin, who is a journalist
himself, being editor of a leading paper in Scot-
land, considers pressmen the best-equipped men
for an immigration bureau. Says the Inky Way
knight: “ Pressmen don’t work by rule of thumb ;
they see a thing to be done, and they do it. They
never stop to think of the impossibilities, but go
straight ahead. Now, departmental men do
work by rule. They’ll begin at'Rule 1, and work
steadily number by number, on red-tape lines, to
Rule 10. A journalist is likely to jump from
Rule 1 to Rule 10 and pick up the dropped num-
bers on the hop.”
Jim Tait and Miss Bess Norris Tait, prior to
their departure for Fogtown, gave a farewell
dinner at the Savoy to a crowd of men friends.
The artistic hostess was the only woman at the
good-bye, but she Was voted a jolly good fellow
along with the rest. The pair will be glad to get
clear of Australia’s bounding coast, for their mail-
boat met a full-ppwered easterly gale some hours
after clearing the Heads. The howling easterly
is a new one on us, but it has been frequent and
free of late. Suppose the fashion must change in
climate, as in everything else. The weather
must hate to have its best hat always turned up
in the south, with white wave-plumes.
Defence Minister Pearce has suffered a sad
bereavement on the eve of his Coronation trip.
A plucky niece, who was only in her teens, was
drowned while trying to save some com-
panions in the Wimmera, at Horsham. Three
or four girls were swimming and got into
difficulties. Linda Pearce tried to save them, but
lostherlifeintheattempt. Anothergirl, Idaßlake,
mfto perished ; but the others managed to scramble
out. The pool, which is deep and situated in a
lonely spot below the Weir, has never been con-
sidered safe. Walter Barrett, a Melbourne boy,
was drowned in the same place several years ago,
and for a while the place was avoided ; latterly,
however, it has been used again.
Some seasiders take their holidays in luxury,
nowadays. Among the ti-tree groves round the
wide beaches that yawn toward the Heads there
are hundreds of canvas houses. The canvas is
stretched on a commodious frame, with windows
let in at the sides, and there are skylights in the
roof ; also there are floors for the comfort of the
pampered inmates. Sometimes a specimen of
that dying race, the Mary Ann. is taken along
to make other campers envious. The beach is one
of the places to which the Mary Ann can be lured,
especially if she possesses a figure. The houses have
small detached rooms for the Mary Anns, and
snug detached kitchens. The Tooraketty people
take the ice-chest and the gramophone, and Mary
Ann has the excitement of a whole fresh set of
visiting tradesmen, including the man who calls
about the wood.
The ice-chest and the gramophone make
the freed suburbanite feel that the delights
of town are over-rated. With something cool at
his elbow he smokes through the evening and
watches the stars wink among the ti-trees while
Melba and Caruso almost burst their throats with
melody. No crowded theatre, no stiff collar and
stiffer shirt front, no rows of hard criticising eyes !
His costume consists of a sweater, a pair of ducks
and no socks. His motor is at hand for the rush
to town on the morrow, and the “shover” is
somewhere on the beach talking to a girl about
the car and roads he has travelled, whilst
studiously avoiding any reference to the boss back
in the trees.
At this season of the year the chief features of
Queenscliff are middle-aged women and easterly
gales. The former garrison the boarding-houses
and nibble at novels, toffee and fruit. Some
sprawl on the beach the whole day long—just
bundles of clothes and black umbrellas. Others
paddle or flop in the sea, arrayed in ugly caps and
ample garb.
Occasionally a lonely man heaves in sight. Bx-
cricketer Charlie McLeod strolled the pier one
day hugging a stick and a book. Passing by
in the boat at the same moment was clergy-
man Hughes, wrapped in semi-elerical grey.
Senator Simon Fraser, who owns a double-
decked humpy on the local esplanade,
is spending some days of industrious iner-
tia. His holiday suit is built of khaki cotton,
while a big helmet verandahs his brow. Deal-dri,
the half-forgotten, occasionally rusticates in a
neighboring village. He is rarely seen abroad,
but lives in seclusion, probably sipping Sainte-
Beuve, or chewing Carlyle’s hippopotamus prose.
An arrival at Point Lonsdale lately was Senator
McColl, the sturdy Protestant. McColl appar-
ently loves the Point in preference to the ’Cliff.
But then any Orangeman would naturally avoid
the latter town. Just consider that in insolent
proximity to the place is a sandbank known as the
Pope’s Eye Shoal!
From a Hobart paper’s report of the reception
given at Government House in honor of the
visiting Dudleys:—
Lady Dudley was wearing an oyster-grey gown of fish
net over Charmeuse, and the famous Dudley pearls, which
hung in ropes from her neck anil shoulders, almost down
to the ground.
Goodness! It makes the lady every inch a mer-
maid. Another reporter said (though it escaped
print) that the “ropes” reminded him of Peter
Bowling’s leg-irons. There’s imagination !
After the Flyspeck frivols, the Dudleys used
the; Pah’ful as a ferry boat from Hobart to Mel-
bourne —which shows their sound sense, for the
big cruiser looks as if it would be less rocksome
than the ordinary “mercantile marine” in a
tumultuous sea.
From a Melbourne girl:—
In these days of heat and swirling dust-storms one’s
mind turns to bosky dells, and the one I remember best
was up in the heart of the mountains, in a tiny township
called Marysville. A ride to the river Taggety at 5
o’clock on a summer morning, with the clematis, in full
bloom, hanging in wreaths from the native myrtle ; then
off the road to a bush track, where the party had to
move in single file ; then a sudden dip, the sound of
softly splashing water, maiden-hair fern up to your horses
knees, every sound deadened by the thick velvety moss—
and you were there 1 Now a son of the house of Keppel
the original boniface of Maryville, has discovered some
fairy-like falls further on, and they have been named after
him.
Maud Valerie White, who writes the sort of
songs you want to listen to in the dusky verandah,
has now composed an opera. Charles Santley
may be credited with the discovery of the tuneful
Maud, who,After winning the Mendelssohn Scholar-
ship, was fortunate enough to meet the veteran
baritone. He scion made her famous by singing
her songs. She lives in Worcestershire, nearly
next door to Mary Anderson. But who remembers
Mary Anderson these days? She is sometimes
vaguely spoken of as “ a famous English beauty,”
so it seems necessary to mention that she was a
beauteous American actress in Britain before she
married a rich man with an Italian name and left
the stage for good.
Says a globe-trotting native
After a look round I return to Australia a rabid White
Australian. In England Orientalism has never been more
fashionable than it is now ; it extends from your clothes
to your drawing-rooms, and Hyde Park on a Sunday
morning might easily be a patch of the red road in
Colombo or a square in Yokohama. And it is not the girl
of “the mob "who has the colored escort. Perky Japanese,
aggressively conscious of their frock coats and silk hats,
wander round like bantams beside some tall Englishwoman,
taking the place of her Teddy Bear as a new and fashion-
able appendage. Wherever you go you are struck by
the easy familiarity the black or brown man has estab-
lished. " Nearly always it is with the womenfolk, though
once or twice young Englishmen of “ good family ” were
pointed out to me in company with Indians or Japanese,
who were said to be paying the piper, handsomely to be
manoeuvred into the proper London world. A White
Australia seems such a splendid difference ! In London
I took some lectures at the School of Economics, and in
my particular class there were 28 pupils and 14 nationali-
ties. At the end of the term the school gave a dance,
and after I had danced with a large Swede who could not
talk to me, and a small Scotchman who regarded the
frivol as an additional and wearisome economic lecture, I
was introduced to a beaming Chinaman, gorgeous in
evening dress, and with queer glasses shaped to press his
nose from flat Mongol to aquiline Roman. That was too
much to endure. The sprinkling of browns and blacks
amongst those fair English girls spoilt the night for me,
and my own white land seemed more desirable than ever
it had before.
It looks as if the hobble might be the fore-
hopper of woman’s emancipation from skirts.
The cable asserts that Wisconsin (U.S.A.) has
started to legislate against the hobbles, also
“that-the measure provides that women may
w T ear trouserettes similar to those worn by Turkish
women.” I guess that law—or attempt at law—
is more of a measure than a Bill; it looks as if it
had been introduced by a tailor. Certainly, many
fashionable women have been experimenting with
trouserettes since the tube skirt came in and the
underskirt went out.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The Gibson-Carmichael lady, her daughter and an aide
are With our Bosanquets at Marble Hill. South Aus.
approves'of the Vic. Governor’s wife. Her humorous
contribution to last year’s Cruelty to Animals’pageant
(it was in booklet form) constituted an oasis in a literary
desert. Adelaide has seen little of her to date, however.
She and her retinue escaped from the Melbourne express
at Aldgate, and leapt the intervening mountains in the
Bosanquets’ motor.
The Postal Department played a malign prank on the
Chamber of Manufactures last week. Several hundred
invitations to the opening of the new premises were
handed to the G.P.0., and there they stayed. When the
eventful eve arrived the committee folk found they had the
landscape practically to themselves, and guests were not.
It turned out that nobody had been invited. The secre-
tary tore his hair and spoke bitter words to the postal
authorities. Strenuous research resulted in the unearth-
ingf of the invitations beneath a heap of defunct letters,
It appears they were handed in at the wrong 1 window, and
left for dead ! The Chamber of Manufactures cheerfully
turned up and had its party another night, like a philo.
sophic body ; and his Ex. went along to make the neces*
sary few remarks.
The G.G.’ssent an aide to Adelaide to meet the Duchess
of Bedford, who arrived on these flattered shores by the
mail last week. The vice-regal car took her to Melbourne,
and, generally, she was placed on the footing of royalty.
Young Dr. Jeffries, who did well at our ’Varsity a year
or-two ago, is now' at the John Hopkins University,
Baltimore (U.S.). It has a hospital attached purely for
student purposes, is the most up-to-date medical school
on the globe, and has four surgeons of a fearful emit
nence in its faculty. The Adelaidean says there is so
much to learn there you don’t know where to begin.
Dr. Jfeffries is the son of an Adelaide cleric (not the
white-haired Congregationalist who gave his name to
Jefferis Church), and is also a nephew of the famous Sir
Frederick Treves, Sergeant-Surgeon to the British royal
family.
Which recalls that there are no less than 20 Lords of
the Stethoscope and Medicine Bottle to attend George
R., his consort, and their offspring when they feel off color.
Of the 20, fourteen have handles to their names, and all
wear alphabetical titles enough to fill a dictionary. And
then people are astonished when a king dies!
Douglas Mawson, the Polar hero, Mr. and Mrs. Engineer-
in-Chief Graham Stewart, Mr. and Miss Pelly, the C. T.
Good family, and the J. R. Bakers left for foreign parts
aboard the Osterley.
Professor Perkins, principal of the Agricultural College,
has returned with a cargo of Information, and is being
welcomed with gusto, illuminated addresses and other
missiles.
The Makins’ medico son and his wife have been over on
this side. He hunts the gay bacilli at Warrnambool.
Yet another S.A. medico, Dr. Frank Burden, is back in
Adelaide after pursuing experience through China and
America.
Sculptor Bertram Mackennal will fashion our memorial
to Ed. VII.
S. A.’s musical geniuses continue to make good progress
up the slopes of Parnassus. The copper-haired fiddler
girl, Daisy Kennedy, has appeared at Prague with the
Bohemian Philharmonic Orchestra, under Semaneck,
and the local critics were charmed with her.
Also, fiddler William Cade, some months ago engaged
by Beecham’s Opera Company at Covent Garden, has
now been appointed leader of the orchestra at a useful
little salary,
A complimentary concert to’cellist Elford Mack is in
prospect and will wake the echoes (which have been
soundly sleeping for months)some time in March next.
By the way, the lately-returned Arthur Williamson
has been made conductor of the Adelaide Glee Club, Mr.
Walmsley having resigned after 23 yeark* service.
Professor Watson, who decorates the Chair of Anatomy
at the Uni versify—the darling of every medical student
and nurse in the community, a'nd the most erratic genius
and brilliant surgeon on this side —has gone holiday-
hunting to America by way of the Eastern States. Hast
heard the story of his swearing medal? This was promised
him by the nursesof a private hospital if he refrained from
cursing- for a week. He earned it, too, and immediately
on getting it had “ Damn ’’ inscribed on it. He Was in-
tended, for the Church, but side-tracked into medicine,
which is not surprising, for his language is more original
than ecclesiastic.
Marie Tuck, the Adelaide artist girl who paints in the
studio and worships at the shrine of Rupert Bunny in
Paris, writes that the latter and his wife, and a family of
60 or 70 canvases, may be expected in Australia this
autumn. Among the pictures Bunny brings the portrait
of an English girl, which is considered one of the gems of
the recent exhibition of the Society Internationale at the
Georges Petit gallery. Miss Tuck, by the way, must have
covered a good ,acreage of canvas, for she is said to haVe
sent out 60 pictures for disposal during the few years she
has been abroad. One, a large and surprising piece of
work for a beginner, was bought by our Gallery when she
had been in Paris only 18 months.
Adelaide has been getting positively frivolous of late.
At an early hour squads of roller skaters start careering
along Rundle-street. They continue to career till the
early tradesman’s cart sools them off the roadway. At
night prosaic citizens are driven to scuttle for their lives
out of the way of the skate-fiends who monopolise the
roadway again. Furthermore, the city has achieved a
Bohemian cafe —one which might have been transported
straight from Soho. What wonder Adelaide is patting
itself on the back and reckoning it’s a rare devii
generally!
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


SCHWEPPK
sarwmvuA
r\
m
ti
)
m
&
(tn/I
»
'a
mm
/,
/
/
/.
/
7a
/a
V*
S 3
9"
<r
?
-/
Iz-'C
o m £ u.
SCHWEPPES’ AERATED SARSAPARILLA,
Prepared from Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root in accordance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
A most refreshing and palatable drink whilst being at the same time a Blood Purifier.
SCHWEPPES’ LEMON SQUASH, Made from Fresh Lemons.
£4O Prizes.
Schweppes’ Lime Juice
Cordial Competition.
£4O Prizes.
Closing date, 16th February, 1911.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED, Purveyors, by Special Warrant of Appointment, to His Majesty King George V*


SUMMER COMFORT.
Nokmal Weight a Necessity.
With the coming of the hot weather very stout
people are more than usually distressed. Their
condition is, as a matter of fact, not without its
imminent dangers, on account of the large quantity
of superfluous fatty tissue with which they are
internally burdened, to the detriment of the vital
organs, "in this state they should avoid anything
like violent exercise ; the fat-laden system will not
stand it. There is a simple prescription which
will lie the means of quickly reducing weight
without physical effort, fasting or any other strain
on the constitution : One ounce of fluid extract of
Glycyrrhiza 8.P., one half-ounce of Marmola, one
ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., and Peppermint
Water to make six ounces in all. Get your
chemist to make up the mixture (or you can easily
do it yourself). Take two teaspoonfuls after each
meal. Simple as all this seems, the remedy is
absolutely all that you need. You will recover
normal your limbs will regain firmness
and strength, your waist correct measurement,
and you will find yourself the picture of health
into the bargain.
In order to meet a constantly repeated demand, the
above prescription has been condensed in the form of
a compact and perfect tablet known as Marmola
Prescription Tablets, and those readers who prefer
them to the liquid form can obtain same of any
chemist, 3s. 6d. per box, or post free from The
Marmola Co., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
TO have unclean boots reflects
upon your character ; to
use an unsatisfactory boot
polish reflects upon your judg-
ment; to use Cherry Blossom
Boot Polish does you credit.
Cherry Blossom comes in
Black and Tan at 3d. and 6d.
per tin—the largest on the mar-
ket at the price, and the best at
any price. Write us if you have
any difficulty in securing supplies. ■ ■
M inaging Agents fur Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
F *.
The Rapid Healer.
Rexona provides the latest short cut of science to
a complete remedy for pimples, boils, sores,
wounds and skin diseases generally. Which road
will you take, reader ? The old-fashioned, tedious,
long way round, full of irritations, relapses and
delays; or the short cut to the rapid remedy which
modern science has provided you in the shape of
Rexona? Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
A CENTRAL OTAGO TRAVELLER.
“ For the last 20 years I have been travelling
the Central Otago Gold Fields,” writes Mr. George
Mitchell, who represents Messrs. MacKerras and
Hazlett, of Dunedin, N.Z. “Invariably every
year I have been seized with an attack of what is
known here as the ‘Gold Fields’ Colic. I have
always used Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy, and after one or two doses the
trouble has disappeared. I recommend it most
strongly to those who suffer from this serious
complaint.”*
Hairdressers who are seeking an increase of
profits—and what tonsorial artist is not?—might, do worse
than glance at Ivens & Ivens’ advt. in another column.
The advantages offered thereby should be of considerable
interest to every enterprising dresser of the human locks
throughout theComnionwealth.*
A RHEUMATIC
CRIPPLE
Tells How He Banished
Suffering and Pain.
»
Could just drag along— -Cured by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
o '
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are recommended to
rheumatic sufferers with confidence because they
have cured hundreds of cases of rheumatism.
That is the greatest test any medicine can have —
the ability to cure. Mr. 0. Shanahan, bootmaker,
of 07 Buckingham Street, North Richmond,
Melbourne, was so badly attacked by rheumatism
that often he could hardly drag one foot after the
other, and the weight of the bedclothes was some-
times agonising to his aching muscles and joints.
Mr. Shanahan’s story, given in his own words, will
be of interest to anyone suffering with rheumatism.
“I could not make it out at first,” he said,
“ but I noticed severe muscular pains coming into
my legs from the feet to the knees. I got worse
attacks as time went on. The attacks might go
away for a week or so or appear for a few days,
but once I was laid up for five weeks ; in bed most
of the time, and unable to go out, and then I was
attacked in arms and shoulders as well. I was
always freer from the pain in winter; but I dreaded
the summer, for I always suffered then. The
perspiration would run off me with the pain. I
felt every change in the weather. There was no
sign externally, but the muscles of the legs would
feel as if they were being all drawn up and
twisted. I was always having the parts rubbed
with liniments, but I could not find any relief. I
could not bear any heavy bedclothes, the parts
were so sore and tender, and the warmth always
made me feel worse. I would lie awake afraid to
move. I was afraid for anyone to come near me.
When the attacks were on me I dreaded the least
touch. My legs were so stiffened that walking
was most painful. 1 would just drag my feet after
me, and I dare not put them on any cold surface.
I might feel quite well one moment, and perhaps
the slightest change of weather would bring on an
attack. I would have to get up and walk about if
I had been resting awhile, and again if I had been
walking home very tired I would have to go iwid
lie down. lam glad to say that a course of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills took the complaint right
away. lam only too glad to give this testimonial
to help any other sufferer. This remedy cured
me, and I have not had any sign of the rheuma-
tism since. My limbs are as supple as could be
wished.” _ _ --
Remember, only the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into taking something
said to be just as good. Of all dealers at 2s. 9d.
per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., or from the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Sydney.*
y
Making ana
fitting a Truss
is Specialists’
work.
Our Special
Elastic Truss
provides com-
fort and effici-
ency. We as-
sure perfect fit.
Denyer Bros.
OENYER
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double.
Makers of Trusses and Abdominal Belts,
281 GEORGE SL'. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
cr. SWANSTON & LONSDALE STS., MELBOURNE
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ X ” : February 7 has a better claim than
.January 26 to rank as the anniversary of the
foundation of Australia. The January 26 busi-
ness was merely a muster of the long penned-up
people, on whom Phiilip discharged a minatory
speech ; but on February 7 all the residents were
called together at Dawes Point in due assembly
form, and the Judge-Advocate, Captain David
Collins, read to them the King’s commission, de-
fining the boundaries of the new colony. He also
read the Act of the British Parliament, authoris-
ing the establishment of Courts of Judicature.
Until these two official presentations were made
there was no colony any more than there was
when the First Fleet was on the high seas. In fact,
Governor Phillip, although he was a most diligent
diarist, didn’t even mention the January 26 re-
hearsal.
John Verran took a fine sample of Sydney
State Frights press methods back to Adelaide
with him. He told the Daily Telegraph that
he and all his Ministers were strongly in favor of
voting Yes in the Referenda. “By the Constitu-
tion of our State Parliament,” said John, “we
find it utterly impossible to get legislation through
the Upper House which we consider will be bene-
ficial to us as workers.” In other words, John took
the sensible view that, as the State had a Propputy
Houseand the Commonwealth hadn’t, the workers’
obvious course was to pass legislation on to the
Commonwealth. And this the Telegraph headed
“APiqued Premier: Will Sacrifice State Rights:
To Spite a Reactionary Council.” So when Dr.
Whiskers Ward wants to get to the railway station,
and takes a Pitt-street tram because he can get
there sooner than if he went by a George-street
tram, he does it out of pique, and just to spite the
George-street conveyance.
They are already discussing the mode of
electing the Irish Parliament. It is cabled that
Nationalist leader John Redmond approves of a
suggestion made by that “ reasonable Unionist,”
Lord Courtney, that the ultimate Irish Parlia-
ment should be elected on the Hare or some
similar method of proportional representation.
It is a good Tory suggestion, likely to prevent
any party securing a powerful enough majority to
be effective. And an ineffectual Irish Parliament
is, from the Tory viewpoint, the next best thing
to the absence of Home Rule.
The glee of the Tory press is something
unholy when it is able to put up (as, for instance,
over the Referenda proposals) the scarehead
“ Labor Divided.” Now, division indicates indi-
vidual freedom ; yet the same daily Tory press
brands the Ministerialists as “Caucusmen,” and
alleges that the most saddening fact about the
Labor movement is the crushing out of individual
freedom, and so on. It suggests once more the
futility of a paper devoting one page to facts and
another to allegations, since the former constantly
arise and tell the latter that they are liars.
Recently, when a deputation asked John
Weary to build a new dredge in Victoria, instead
of buying it from a foreigner, he was hardly able
to contain his amazement. After a long-drawn
breath of pained surprise, he looked at the spokes-
man and said : “You must be a whole-hogger for
Protection.” The possibility of a man being a
whole-hogger for anything was too fantastic for
Weary to calmly contemplate. Such a person
might be a little better than a pirate, but was
bound to be worse than a man who works.
Says O’Malley re the plans of the Federal
city:—
It is much easier than to prepare a plan fora partially-
destroyed city, because here you have to deal with virgin
territory over which the lecherous heel of the destroyer
has not yet travelled.
“Not yet travelled” is good. Still, if Kink
O’Malley could be persuaded to brush the hair
out of his eyes, he would see something very like a
lustful heel planted on his “ virgin ” territory. It
is a fine, plump heel, too. Its owner is fat, and
almost the only words it uses are “Me” and
“Sydney.” And it is because the heel is there
that the Federal city is going down to history as
the city that never had a chance.
From a Sydney Telegraph editorial
(25/1/T1): —
If any land taken by the State from its present owners
is to be bought and paid for at market value, as Mr.
Neilsen shows that he believes it ought to be, nationalisa-
tion would only mean transferring the ownership from
the present landholders to the moneylenders. National-
isation on such lines would, from the socialistic stand-
point, amount to little more than mockery.
It is just like the Telegraph to assume that the
Government must necessarily rush .to Cohen for
the money, but that may pass just now. The
present point is that, even if the State did borrow
the money to buy the land, it would own all
future additions to the value of that land ; where-
fore, in a hundred years from now', provided
things go on all right, land purchased at present,
even on the Telegraph’s terms, would amount to
something more than a mockery or a whole drove
of mockeries. ,
IMPRESSING THE SAVAGE.
CALCUTTA, Sunday Afternoon. —It is officially an-
nounced that the King will visit India next winter. —
Cable.
Inasmuch as Indians regard the Sovereign as a Deity,
the visit would appeal to them and destroy the seeds of
discontent. —Calcutta ENGLISHMAN.
THE LOYAL SUBJECT: “ Great Allah!"
That dear old Socialistic tiger which was
going to tear the home to pieces and rend the
marriage tie isn’t dead, after all. “ The Flinders
Political Organisation ” is strewing Victoria with
leaflets on “ The Referenda—what are they?”
and it answers its own question :
If you grant these enormous powers, it not only paves
the way but makes inevitable complete Socialism, involv-
ing the absolute destruction of private ownership, the
home, and individual liberty.
If, in short, the people of Australia hand these
powers over to themselves, they will naturally
tear themselves to pieces, and burst up the'r own
homes, ,and put themselves in chains, and rob
themselves of their own liberty, and despoil them-
selves of their own comfortable armchairs, and on
cold nights they will lock up their own wood in
their own bathrooms and freeze themselves, and
if they want Mondays for washing-days they will
make themselves take Fridays instead, and gene-
rally they will be cantankerous and stamp heavily
on their own chests 11 times a day. That, in plain
language, is what all the State Frighters and anti-
Australians say is the meaning of an affirmative
vote. And if the people believe they will do these
things to themselves they will vote “ No.” If they
don’t reckon themselves such asses they will vote
“Yes.”
Westralia proposes to follow Queensland
and establish a University. The Government has
a suspicion that the time has come when all fees
should be abolished, and the free education prin-
ciple adopted in a whole-hog fashion; but it stood
on the brink and gazed at the water, and said it
looked cold. Wherefore the onus of saying
whether fees should be abolished or not is thrown
on the Uni. Senate—which is a weak, shivery,
gone-in-the-knees way of dodging a difficulty.
FOR BLACK AND WHITE CONTRIBUTORS
ONLY.
INARTISTIC CONTBUTOR : “Here, sir, are two
original jokes I made. One is about a
woman who told a teacher that she didn't
send Willie to school to be smelled but to be
learned; and the other is 'Wade in the balance
and found wanting.”’
The political prophets are predicting
another dissolution in S. Aus. next October, after
the Council has again tossed out the Adult
Suffrage Bill and the Labor Treasurer’s land-tax
scheme. Both parties are working strenuously to
gather votes together before the evil day, and the
Fat party is making the most of Jack Verran’s
gaueheries.
The N.S.W. Labor party proposes that
municipal aldermen and councillors should be
paid for their services, and the S. M. Herald is
shocked—“aldermen have always been readily
available to serve for the distinction.” What
need is there, either, to pay Tom Heney a salary
for editing the Herald? Any number of men
could readily be got to serve for the distinction —
and any other little thing they could make out of
it. Why doesn’t the Herald take a plateful of
the stew it serves up for the public?
Another of Bent’s monuments is in a bad
way. Near Geelong is a village settlement called
Higliton, planted by the late Tom when he was
in one of his most exuberant humors. Settlers
were to have all sorts of privileges and liberal
assistance. However, political affairs took another
bent, the privileges were cut out, the liberal
assistance was not forthcoming, and Higliton
withered. There were at one time about 50
families on the settlement; but one after another
the families have been starved or frozen out, until
only an unlucky 13 remain ; and these are being
told to pay or pack, though, as a result of bad
faith or hopeless management, or both, nobody
can pay up, and none has anything much worth
packing.
The conference of State Premiers in Mel-
bourne the other day did little, and what little it
did went chiefly to show how much better the
Commonwealth Government could have done it.
Only three Premiers foregathered—those of N. S.
Waies, Vic. and S.A. —and about the only matter
they were immediately unanimous upon was the
necessity for the two former States passing a
measure similar to S.A.’s Destitution Act, under
which the wages of a man working in one State
may be attached if a maintenance order has not
been complied with in another State. As Queens-
land, Westralia and Tasmania had no hand in the
agreement, and as about half the missing hus-
bands go to “the WCst,” it doesn’t appear as
though the Act, when passed by the six Houses
of the three conferring States, would have any
great effect; and, anyhow, it is pretty certain to
vary in many more or less important details. On
the other band, one such Act passed by the Com-
monwealth Parliament would apply to the whole
continent, and would be equally effective wher-
ever it was put in force.
Premier Murray reached the limit in false
suggestion when lie was talking the other day to
a deputation from the Melbourne Typographical
Society. He was asked to extend the scope of the
Metropolitan Wages Board to the country printing
trade, in which the general run of wages is said
to be much lower than a fair living rate. And
Murray, like the consistent Tory that he is,
grabbed the opportunity to “throw off” at
country Labor and Radical newspapers :
The worst sweaters in the country press are those that
strongly support the Labor movement. In one city in
Victoria the Conservative paper pays good rates, whilst
the Radical newspaper pays sweating rates, and then
cannot make the business pay.
Murray’s obvious suggestion was that the
preachers of Labor doctrine are hypocrites, inas-
much as they don’t practise what they preach.
He carefully didn't mention why the Radical
journal, in spite of poor wages, cannot make the
business pay, whilst the rival Conservative rag
pays full wages and makes fat profits. The
reason, of course, is that the local shopkeeper,
being mostly a man or woman of the Murray per-
suasion, advertises in the Conservative rag, and
the neighboring squattah buys it, whilst the organ
of Labor gets no support from either class. In
short, the country Labor paper usually has to
sweat to live, whereas Murray’s suggestion is that;
it lives to sweat.
Governor Chelmsford leaves N.S.W.
shortly on a six months’ jaunt, after little more
than a year’s service. Chief Justice Cullen will
act as State Governor during the half-year at a
salary of £5OOO, and, in addition, will still be
C.J. Chelmsford will also go on drawing his
£5OOO as though he were still hard at it opening
bazaars and sales-of-work. And his absence will
be hardly noticed. The only thing that will
be missed is the £lOO a week that the State will
pay him for doing nothing. Still, he ought to be
encouraged to take a whole 12 months’ leave.
Then the public might begin to wonder whether
an imported State Governor couldn’t be done
without altogether.
The State Premiers have arisen like a herd
of giants refreshed to demand payment for their
transferred properties. Some of them want 3 per
cent, interest and some want more, and Kidston,
of Queensland, wants 10 years’ back interest.
(Queensland, by the way, hadn’t the luck of some
of the States in receiving large sums above the
regular Braddon Blot subsidy, so Kidston’s
position is not so unjustifiable as might be sup-
posed.) The Commonwealth can only meet these
claims by taking over a corresponding amount of
the State debts—six little bits of debt. It is
already pledged to take over the Territory’s
liabilities, which makes seven little bits of debt.
In the circumstances, it seems as if it would really
be as well to take over the whole debts in a lump,
settle all claims in one act, put a stop to the
foolish 255. subsidy, and be done with the trouble.
A once-familiar lie, but one which hasn’t
been seen around for some time now, turned up in
the Sydney Telegraph on Anniversary Day -
Before Federation, while the other States shut their
ports to her, she kept hers open to them and prospered
more than they did withal.
Why, certainly ! True, there were a fair number
of years just before Federation (1890, 1891,1893,
1894 and 1895, for instance) when the Protectionist
States bought more from N.S.W. than N.S.W. did
from them. And when the Telegraph ceased to
get 50 per cent. Protection against the Queensland
and Victorian papers under the postal regulations,
it was mad enough to raise the dead. And there was
quite an imposing lot of duties in the alleged
Freetrade tariff of N.S.W. And even now
N.S.W. keeps Western Riverina shut against its
southern neighbor by a carefully preserved gap in
the railway line, which is quite as effective a bar
as a 100 per cent. duty. Still the habit of shout-
ing about how the old Ma State would scorn to
hamper trade with any place is so ingrained that
it can’t be cured all at once.
THE LURKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Where Does Old Age Lurk ? ” asks a Sydney evening-
paper headline. Easy ! In public gardens in summer,
in public libraries in winter, and in the Liberal and
Reform cellar all the year round.—Bulletin ( 19/ipl).
Observe the mould upon his shoes, the blue mould on his
hat.,
The cobwebs wreathed around him! Whose dark,
dreary form is that
Which lurks where fat cockroaches speed, and stout
house-spiders swarm ?
Who is this one that doth not heed? Is he a miser
mising?
Is he alive, though deaf and dumb ?
Or has he gone to Kingdom Come
Or not?
Hey? What?
He is REFORM 1
Surprising !
Cough-mixture whiffs surround him —long, loud, euca-
lyptus scents
And menthol-sniffs exceeding strong. He has presenti-
ments,
And muffles up from tip to toe to keep his old bones
warm. ~.
Who, which, what is this, striving so in desperate en-
deavor
To shove ahead the dreadful day
When he will surely pass away
And rot ?
Hey? What?
This is reform ?
Oh, never l
Oh, see the cellar-green that stains the poor old feller’s
vest;
And note the baldness near his brains, his chin upon his
chest!
Reform, is he? His beard winds down its grim and
gloomy way,
And he is grey where youth is hrown ; and glumly there
he lazes. ...
Is he the sort to up and hurl
Defiance round, and deal in whirl
And whizz ?
He is
Re-form, you say !
Oh, blazes!
victoria.
FRANE HENTY


VICTOR PIANOS.
5TW ,t ’
To those requiring' a medium-
priced Piano we recommend,
with great confidence, our
Victor Models.
Made specially for us, they
embody our half-century’s ex-
perience, and are sold fully
g'uaranteed.
They are grand wear resisters,
and stand true as a rocK in
any climate.
Full particulars and Catalogue
post free on application. We
sell either for Cash or on Easy
Terms.
If you have an old piano we will
taKe it as part payment.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD.,
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
And at . . .
BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
[ARDATH
LONDON
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Whatever test is applied
to Winfred ” Cigarettes
proves them to be free
from all the causes which
make ordinary cigarettes
injurious. Manufactured
from scrupulously
selected, natural tobacco
leaf only, they are free
from all deleterious
matter and adulteration.
10 20
6d. 1/=
Plain or Gold Tipped
0
Ik
I
Types of
British Manhood.
THE MOTORIST
smokes “ Winfred ” Cigarettes
because he can get them wherever
he finds a high-class tobacconist.
Obtainable of all leading Tobac-
conists, Stores, Clubs, Hotels,
&c., throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
'tr
«
n
ft
1
The Newest in Neglige Shirts
NEATLY-PLEATED FRONTS.
M A d=VnsTwi h h e^V r s.?pe s Ca " ,briCS ' " a glOri °" S r “ ge ° f C °'°"^ s and
The fronts are nicely pleated, enhancing the appearance of the Shirt considerably.
t>i Th< h S U ° wl "g shade combinations are available Heliotrope and Grev Skv
Blue and Slate, Brown and Sky, Slate and Sky, Green and Sky. 7 ’ 7
Price - - 7s. 6d.
New Oatmeal Cloth Shirts.
ooiJof « ptesent - obumabie in *
Price - - 6s. 6d.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF SARTORIAL PSYCHOLOGY—
The Guide to Correct Dress. Sent Fost Free
H
FARMER & COMPANY Limited,
SYDNEY.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FOR - SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
No Household
Should ever be without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment; a reliable remedy for cuts,
bruises, aches, pains, rheumatism and lumbago.
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
WORMS.
Some Striking Symptoms.
A child who is afflicted with worms will often he
in an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable, and will have a strong
tendency to pick the nose, and
there will be severe itching of the
lower bowel. Grinding the teetli
and suddenly starting up in the
sleep will also be noticed. Ihe
bowels are irregular, sometimes con-
stipated, and at other times relaxed,
with bloody discharges as in dysen-
tery, and not infrequently the dis-
charges will be in flakes and shreds,
which might be taken for partly
digested food. The best proof of
worms is worms, and if their
presence is suspected, immediate
steps should be taken to positively
establish the fact, and once established, Com-
stock’s “ Dead Shot ” Worm Pellets should he
administered according to directions. Worms re-
quire a specific medicine, and there is no remedy
so effective as these Pellets. They kill the
worms, destroy their eggs, and dislodge their
nests. For sale by all chemists, price Is. 6d„ or
will be forwarded on receipt of price by .The W.
H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.
&
1910 MODEL
WITH
SYR U RING
RACK
Bsxrvker
AERATED WATER
Machine
Works like a clock.
MAKES AERATED WATERS
AT 3d, DOZEN.
Sold on Terms.
NELSON CARBONATINC CO. LTD.
167 George St., Sydney
SELECT STOCK ALE &
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-RICHARP HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
PAINLESS CRICKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The batsmen were not forcing the pace, and during the
85 minutes’ play before the interval had put up only 69
runs. The cricket was painful to watch.— Test match
report.
“ It’s painful, sir ! ” groaned the turnstile-man,
As I tried in vain to pay ;
“It’s been like that since the match began ;
It’s been painful, sir, all day.
I'wouldn’t go in if I was you ;
It ain’t a nice thing to see ;
I wouldn’t stop you fromgoin’ through,
But it’s like the Third Degree."
“ Oh, let me in to the match ! ” I said
Then the warden muttered, “ Wait 1
’Old on a minute ! ” Away he sped ;
I stood at the iron gate
Till back he came with a small syringe
And a phial of cocaine.
“ With this,” he said, “ you won’t feel a twinge !
‘Twill deaden all the pain ! ”
X. s. w.
KODAK.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
N.S.W. won the Sheffield Shield on Tuesday,
defeating Victoria by a margin of 456 runs. The fea-
tures of the match were the scoring of young McEl-
hone and Barbour and the bowling of Dr. Hordern for
the victors. N.S. W. made 337 and 401; total, 738.
Victoria was dismissed for 194 and 88; total, 252.
To say the least of it, this was a sound belting.
Young McElhone played excellent cricket, displayed
keen judgment, and smacked up 101 of N.S.W.’s first
innings total of 337. He was the glassy agate of that
innings, and he did not disgrace himself in the second
attempt either, but placed a respectable 34 to
his credit. Evidently a new star has arisen.
Victoria struck trouble in Dr. Hordern, who
bagged . seven sticks for 58 runs, and practically
ruined the southern hopes. Cotter took a couple for 42
runs, but sent down three no-balls as compensation to
the other side. In the second innings the Victorian
bowlers had a bad time, the only man to make a show
being Kyle, who took six wickets for 129 runs. Arm-
strong was the only other bowler to get timber—three
for 94. i But all of them were helpless against brilliant
young Barbour, who carried his bat for 113. Victoria’s
second innings was a most doleful effort. Hordern got
six wickets for 32 ; Macartney came out of his shell and
dropperlia couple for 18. Cotter was a dead failure, and
had 27 runs knocked off him for nothing. If Hordern
is not very careful he will find himself booked for the
next Test.
# * * *
The Australian XI selection committee has its
head in bandages at present. The N.S.W. v. Victorian
match was expected to unearth one player at least to fill
a place in the Australian team ; but the match has
brought forward the claims riot of one but of quite a few
—and all of them colts. The( centuries by McElhone and
Barbour push these youngsters into the front seat; but
the trouble is that Australia needs a bowler.
Hordern and Matthews .ate struggling for this position ;
and, on form, the N.S.W. slow-bowler appears to have
the best claim, the seven wickets for 55 runs, in Victoria’s
first innings, being a really good effort. To the writer, a
good loophole for the selection committee is to drop
Gehrs and let Barbour in, and throw Macartney overboard
in order to ship Hordern. The change would improve
the team—and on the third test-match form a change is
necessary. # #
A. D. Nourse,- of-the Springboks, has followed
Faulkner over the .10Q0-.run mark for the tour. Faulk-
ner, in all matches, has piled up 1342 runs, while Nourse’s
aggregate is 1087. In first-class matches this season
Faulkner is the only player, thus far, who has scored four
figures, his total being 1051 ; but Trumper (965), Bards-
lev (921), and Nourse (894), are close up, and will probably
get within sight of the mark in the coming fourth Test
match, even if they don’t pass it.
* * * *
Hurricane bowler McLaren, following up his
six wickets for 23 of the previous week, on Saturday last
aa-ain electrified Brisbane first-grade cricket by taking 14
sticks for 44 runs. In fact, all through the season Mac
h is been coruscating, having gathered in 32 wickets at
an average of runs for each. Taking this fact, and his
good showing against the Springboks into consideration,
McLaren should certainly be included in the Australian
Xl ‘
The Springboks have been appearing in Western
Victoria. Last week they conquered a Hamilton 16 with
an innings and 30 runs to spare. The game was practi-
cally a picnic for Strieker, Vogler and Schwarz. Strieker
contributed 97 to S’Africa’s total of 229. Vogler and
Schwarz accounted for 24 victims —12 each, for 84 and 42
runs respectively.
* # * *
The feature of Melbourne cricket on Saturday
was the sudden uprising of Harry Trott. Playing for
South against P’ran, the ancient smacked up 100 in
wonderful style. Another centurion was the youthful
Butler, who made 103 not out for Melbourne. With that
help his club was enabled to close at 497 for the loss of
six wickets and wallop North Melbourne by 389. Other
..ames came to drowsy conclusions, though there, were
two individual achievements worth a line or so. Firstly,
the veteran Mitchell, of Northcote, collared four 'Varsity
wickets for 16 runs. Secondly, Monfries, the Melbourne
wicket-keeper, displayed another flash of form ; he
allowed only four sundries and stumped three North
Melbourne bats.
* * * *
“Clarence Bluebottle”: During recent Test
matches the daily prattlers have been holding post-
mortems on deceased cricket records. We hear all about
the doings ef “Clem” and “Vicky,” and “Verme” and
“ M A.N.” The ancient chestnut of 1878, when Spofforth
and Boyle, on a mud-heap, dismissed Marylebone for 19
runs, is trotted out with regularity ; but we hear nothing
of the awful happening of 1896, when, on a batsman’s
wicket “Our Boys” subsided before Marylebone for 18
runs and Porigher, the Leicestershire professional, made
the world’s record for a first-class match, with five wickets
for 0 1 So painful, apparently, is this episode, that an
amiable old gentleman named Ironside, who every now and
again issues a calendar of notable cricket performances,
cannot find it in his heart to include it. Pougher s per-
formance is not going to get rid of the Labor Government,
or secure the “ rights ” of the Ma State ; still, when one is
publishing records, surely the most notable of all might
find a place.
# * * *
Coogee, which calls itself Sydney’s favorite surf
resort, received a set-back as a watering-place on Satur-
day, when two men and two boys came to an untimely
end through lack of proper management. About a score
of people were swept out of their depth by an ambushed
current and sucked into a vortex. But for the heroism
and amazing skill of Harold Baker and “ Jim ” Clarken,
the well-known footballer, assisted by Beattie Carroll,
there would have been a holocaust. Most of the mem-
bers of the Surf Club were attending a carnival
at Manly, and apparently there was no one in charge of
the beach to watch for signs of danger and warn bathers.
A crowd of people, as helpless as babies once they got out
of their depth, were left to disport themselves and get
drowned if they blundered into danger. And, very
naturally, they got into the most dangerous place on the
whole beach.
Then horror and heroism became inextricably
mixed. Harold Baker, who has the refreshment-rooms
there—a brother of “ Snowy’’—happened to glance at
the bathers ; whereupon his hair stiffened, for he saw the
danger. He started out to send them back, but before
he could get within ear-shot they were struggling for
their lives. Clothed as he was he plunged in, and
swam out among frantic men and maddened women,
who clawed at him and sprang upon him. Having to
fight for his own life, his splendid work was thus
delayed by the terror of the women around him.
There was no time to save them all ; but seizing one girl
who was at the last gasp, he struggled out with her and
kicked off his clothing as he swam. Returning to
the contract, he was better able to act through having
shed most of his sodden covering, and he struggled
out of the vortex with no less than three girls
hanging to him. Then back again, till the last was
ashore. All the time others were doing splendid work.
They had not the same strength as Baker, nor
his skill in the water. . But, though hampered with their
clothing, which they had no time to discard, they man-
aged to bring all but four ashore. In one case, they
brought a man into shallow water and told him to wait
there ; but, his strength giving out, he collapsed and was
washed away into the current, after being drowned in
water only about up to his knees. Then there was the
heroic little boy who, finding he could just keep his head
above the wave, shouted, “I’m all right save the
women ! ” And when the rescuers came back for him he
had gone. Brave little chap !
It was a ghastly business, and relieved only by
the heroism it evoked. With proper municipal control
of the beach such a tragedy should be impossible.
Municipalities which encourage surf-bathing should have
stipendiary life-savers on guard all the time. The
members of the surf clubs will always give
assistance when they are present; but then it is not al-
ways possible for them to be present. W hat happened
on Saturday last is always liable to happen. And, any-
how, there should be a man capable of detecting danger
always on duty, armed with dictatorial powers to say
where people may or may not bathe. Manly has some
such arrangement, and since it has been in vogue there
have been no tragedies there, although they were
common enough before.
Meantime, Hugh Ward is directing a movement
to suitably recognise the heroism and skill of Baker and
darken. It will take the form of a monster athletic
demonstration at the Stadium, Rushcutter’s Bay, to-
morrow (Friday) night. Mr. Ward hopes to raise at least
£lOOO.
* * * *
The recent storms along the N.S.W. coast
seem to have affected the safety of the Sydney
beaches for bathing. Notwithstanding the Coogee
disaster of Saturday, the water on Sunday at every
surfing resort was thick with people, and there was
excitement all along the line. At Manly a party
of three men and a boy from the country ven-
tured away from the main body of surfers, and
were suddenly whirled seaward. The alarm was
given, and Cecil Healv, Roy McKelvey, J. Reynolds,
and V. Evans went out to effect the rescue. They had a
rough time owing to the line breaking, and the battle
for life lasted 20 awful minutes; and then the visitors
from the country, more dead than alive, were hauled
out and handed over to the doctor and the surf-club
revivers. Also, at Bondi three men got into trouble and
were saved per medium of an'old lifeline which, fortu-
nately, did not break.
The result is that there is another agitation for
buoys, with lines stretched between them, supported on
cork floats. It certainly would bean excellent idea if any-
thing like a secure anchorage for the buoys could be
obtained. To this writer it seems that what is wanted is
some light type of life-buoy or belt which could be worn
by people who cannot swim.' If the use of it were made
compulsory, local ingenuity would soon discover
a type of belt that would be sufficient to keep
one afloat without hampering the movements too
much. An inflated india-rubber bladder, worn on the
chest and between the shoulders under the bathing-suit,
might detract somewhat from a graceful appearance, but
it would provide a large measure of safety, and assist to
keep a non-swimmer afloat till the life-line was brought.
Also, it would make the task of the life-saver a lot
easier; and it might be mentioned that that job wants
lightening considerably. Of all sweating jobs, life-saving
in the surf is about the worst.
* * * *
The A. J.O. Anniversary Meeting at Randwick
(N.S.W.), drowned out from Anniversary Day, eventuated
on Monday. It was not an inspiriting meeting. About
12,000 people rolled up, and persistently backed the wrong
horse. In the Flying Handicap, Poi Dance and Royal Merv
carried the public money at 3’s and 2’s, and Gigandra,
one of the speedy two-year-olds of last season, rushed
home in a dead-beat condition. Gigandra went out at
eights, which is a sure and certain sign that nobody was
“on.” The only favorite of the day to get home was
Chaste in the Novice Handicap. This nag started at 3
to 1 against, and woh by two lengths, and the
Bag rent the welkin with his lamentations. It was a
fearful happening. But he got it all back and a lot more,
for the rest of the meeting saw the winners go out in this
fashion: Corinthian Handicap—Swagger, two to one ;
Anniversary Handicap—Leuron, eight to one ; Second
Nurserv Handicap—Midlorn, five to one ; Highweight
Handicap—Diabolo, 10 to one. Any remarks about the
tote would be an insult to ordinary intelligence.
* * * *
The latest freak is the amphibious aeroplane.
This fearful contraption is an ordinary hydroplane fitted
with aerial planes. It can skim along the surface of the
water at something like 32 miles per hour, and, when
required, take to the air. The men who command
battleships are thinking hard, as there are some horrible
possibilities about this new device.
J. F. Fitzgerald sends word from the Catholic
Club, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney, that he is willing to run
A. Sime a Marathon race (26 miles 385yds.) anywhere,
Sydney preferred, provided he puts up a side wager of
£2OO. Winner to split the. gate, 60 to 40. Man and money
waiting. . # #
Annexation is in the air, and two all-fired
Yankees are on the way, to make Australia a baseballing
national entity. They are coming to establish the game
on a sound footing, to train the young idea to form
leagues, and play the glorified rounders game for all it is
worth, so as to get a place in the international teams
which will from time to time descend upon the land of
the Yank.
Peter Kemp’s Novice Sculling Handicap is to
be repeated on March 4, when it is expected that a big
number of the rising generation will come out to see
what is what. The last event was emmentlv successful,
and as the idea is catching on it is expected that thenext
will be better. The way the old hands are rallying up to
assist is very gratifying; and in a ye " "
present enthusiasm lasts, there will be a fine crop of first
class scullers growing on Port Jackson and the Parra
matta River. Entries must be lodged with Peter Kemp,
Abbotsford, Parramatta River (N.S.W.), by February -2,
and must be accompanied by full particulars^
Meanwhile, Harry Pearce is struggling hard
with the task of raising £5OO for the side wager which
must accompany his challenge to Pick Arnst to come out
and be killed. Pearce is certainly entitled to a match,
having successfully mopped the surface of the water with
everybody he has tackled, and Richard is the only one
who hasn’t been the dishcloth. Richard, by the way,
announces that if no challenge is forthcoming before May-
be will take on the difficult and painful job of climbing
lip the greasy pole which leads to a bashing match with
Jack Johnson.
* * * *
Whether it is that in Sydney (N.S.W.) Bowls
and Propputy are closely connected, or that bowlers as a
class are more patriotic, is not clear. Still, it is a fact
worth notice that on Saturday the Pennant and ‘ B
competitions were left out to dry while the municipal
elections had the floor. Whatever the reason, it is good
to find some sports who will drop play to attend to the
business of the country.
Motor-cycling, which has already become popu-
lar, is now threatening to boom. The number of staid
citizens who are goingin for motor-bikes is remarkable, and
they cannot understand why they didn’t do it before.
Probably the reason is the simple one that, until the
almost immediate present, motor-biking was far
from a safe or enjoyable game. The mo-bike
has evolved wonderfully the last few years. Until
to-day skidding was frequent and painful, the ma-
chines were underpowered, and, with their lofty
frames and high centre of gravity, a spill from one was a
serious thing. On the modern machine, with its low
frame, one enjoys much more safety. And, although a
side slip is unpleasant, it is not as dangerous as it used
to be, for the rider slides off as the machine slides down,
easily and without great risk. And what a struggle it
was to get those earlier bikes started! Ye gods! Now
they start at the word. In fact, when one comes to look
below the surface, improvement ill the manufacture is
the secret of the boom.
That 243 miles between Christchurch and
Dunedin, in Maoriland, seems to have some mysterious
allurement for Maoriland cyclists. They are always
trying to break the record over it, and the latest attempt,
bv W. L. Oldman, was a very good attempt indeed. Like
Lochinvar, he rode alone, without pace, and howled over
the breezy plains of Canterbury, the shingle drifts of
northern Otago, and the hills at Palmerston and Waitati,
and rolled into Dunedin in 14hr. 53min. This chopped no
less than 2hr. 14min. off the previous unpaced record, and
represented an average speed of 16J miles per hour.
How fine a ride it was becomes obvious when
it is recalled that Jack Arnst, behind pace, took
no less than 12h. 21min. 7sec. when he was at his zenit h.
The Horse Range at Palmerston South and the Kilmug
Hill at Merton, and the long climb over the heights above
Waitati are exhausting interludes that break up the non-
conditioned rider.
* * * *
There is no doubt about Amurka being the
land of big ideas. And the recent and tremendous boom
in “automobiles” is responsible for one of the most
gigantic pleasure schemes in the world’s history. It is
proposed to create a special automobile road down the
Pacific Coast from Far North Canada to Southern
Mexico, and another from that road at Vancouver
through Winnipeg to Lake Superior, away to
Montreal. When both are completed, there will
be a 3000-mile run from Panama to the Arctic
Ocean,'and 3300 miles from Vancouver to Eastern Canada,
making a total speedway of 6300 miles. The maximum
width is to be 20ft., and the maximum gradient 10 per
cent., and even the curves are to be limited ; and the
people promoting the idea say that both roads will be
open for use in the early spring of 1914. That year Winni-
peg is to have a “World’s Fair,” and it is confidently
hoped that half America and his wife will arrive in his
own automobile via these two splendid tracks. Whether
it comes off or not, it is a noble scheme, and does proud
the men who conceived it. And it will do prouder the
men who pay for it. #
A Roumanian chemist has produced what he
calls “ solid petrol,” and claims a small inventory of
advantages for it. Of course, the petrol is not really
solidified, but merely reduced to the consistency of a
thick jelly. He claims that with a properly-adapted car-
burettor there will be no necessity for liquefying it before
use, and that in the jelly form it will be cheaper because,
no matter how bad the road, there will be no spilling or
wasting. The experiments are being carried out witli
considerable zest, and motorists all over the world are
waiting to hear the results.
* * * *
The yarn that vast cargo steamers and super-
Dreadnoughts are to be fitted with Diesel-pattern in-
ternal-combustion engines is a staggering reminder of
how the petrol-engine has soared towards perfection of
recent years. The aforementioned yarn is that one of
the Dreadnoughts, to be laid down this month, is to be
fitted with a 36,000-h.p. installation, divided into three
sets of eight-cvlinder engines, each developing 12,000-
h.p. The engines are to be two-stroke, single-acting
pattern, and will use crude oil for fuel and run normally
at 190 revolutions per minute. The overall dimensions
of the engines will be 56ft. length, 16ft. height and Bft.
width. The ship is, of course, avast experiment, as for
years the experts have declared the petrol-driven battle-
ship an impossible dream. But if it can be done the
advantages are tremendous. No smoke (that is, abso-
lutely no smoke); gigantic saving of space, which can be
devoted to the carriage of fuel, thus increasing the sea-
range enormously; no stokers ; and last and most
important, all vital machinery below the water-line, and,
with properly-armored decks, safe from gun fire. Oyer-
whelming advantages, my masters, if they can be
secured.
* * * *
Some papers said the other day that an army
captain named Nine had won £200,000 at Monte Carlo ,
the others said that nine army captains had done the
trick. One yarn was probably as big a lie as the other.
Tales Of wondrous wins are issued for “circulation
abroad” when business is dull, and the persons who in-
sure their circulation are suspected of being liberally
paid for the job. Certainly the bank at Monte Carlo
sometimes breaks for a night. Mostly this happens
when a man’s or a woman’s run of luck has begun to be
conspicuous, whereupon he or she is inevitably followed
by a number of smaller speculators—which helps to make
it practically impossible for a man or any small group of
men to win an immense sum of money in a short time, by
leaps and bounds of luck. These cable stories of the
man who breaks the bank are full-brother to the confi-
dence yarns which the hawk-eyed spielers tell about the
uncle in Fiji.
* * * *
C. D. Greenwood, the Canterbury (ML.)
sportsman who bought a number of the late G. G.
Stead’s horses, had a good innings at Auckland’s Summer
race meeting. He won L 2660 in stakes alone, Danube
scoring in the Derby and Plate; Miss Mischief in the
A.R.C. Handicap (time, 2min. 32 3-ssee.—a Maoriland
record for the mile and a half); and Orton in Midsummer
Handicap and Royal Stakes. Miss Mischief’s win was
greeted with howls of derision, owing to her unplaced
running in two previous races ; hut an inquiry upheld
the; lady’s reuutation. Auckland Cup, the big event of
the; meeting, was won by Waimangu ; and the Summer
Cup was collected by King Soiilt, although the brute
could get no closer to the Derby boodle than third.
The totalisator got right up on its hind legs at
the recently-revived race meeting at Kapunda (S.A.).
The fields were small, but level money was the worst
price paid on any winner. Five and six pounds were
handed out in fields of not more than as many starters,
and in a Jumpers’ Flat, of nine runners, the 2J people
who backed the winner got £l' 7 12s. each for a sovereign
invested.
■****■
Last Saturday Port P 'hp was the scene of the
annual yacht race for th spittle trophy. The' course
was from Port Melbourne t o Geelong, and about 30 lined
up for the prize and the glory. The breeze, which
appeared from the north, later on sneaked to the east,
and blew all along- to general satisfaction. The first boat
to finish was Britannia; but adjusting for time allow,
ances. Foam was found to have beaten the leader by
9min. ssec. Eileen was third, Ripple lourth, and Koo-
meela, a back-marker, fifth.
* * ■* *
The Upper Yarra was wildly agitated last
Saturday by the annual amateur rowing regatta. The Civil
Service won the Senior Pairs and Maiden Eights ; Albert
Park, the Maiden and Senior Fours; Footscray, the
Junior Pairs ; and Sandhurst, the Maiden Sculls; while
the Maiden Pairs and Junior Fours fell respectively to
Banks and Mercantile.
* * * *
A. W. Clemes, the Tasmanian Rhodes scholar,
was first in the Oxford v. Cambridge Cross Country
Race last month. The last of the Oxonian string finished
ahead of the first of the Cantabs, the former crowd being
an exceptionally useful lot. English papers are in
ecstasies about the running-style of the Australian boy,
whom they tip as a coming champion.
* * * *■
The Tas. Y.M.O.A. is the latest organisation to
be infested with the Marathon craze. But the local Ama-
teur Athletic Association put down its foot and said
“ No,” on the ground that Marathon races ruin runners
and bust up insurance companies, while t hey enable the
doctor and the undertaker to grow fat. The 26 mile race
has been worked to death in England and Amurka ; and
Australia also seems to be getting full up of it. The East
Melb. (Vic.) harriers are hesitating somewhat, as a couple
of the officials have suggested holding a Marathon only
every other year, which is about the next step to giving
this race its death blow.
* # * *
Gr. A. Wheatley, of Essendon Harriers (Vic.),
the Australasian middle-distance champion, has set out
on another record-smashing expedition. Competing off
scratch in the half-mile handicap at the A.N. A. sports on
Saturday, he carved the distance in lmin. 56 3-ssee. If
the track be correct, then the red and black’s represen-
tative has shattered his previous record of lmin. 56§secs.
The world’s record is lmin. 52 4-ssec., put up by Emilio
Lunghi, the Italian champion, at the Canadian cham-
pionships in 1909, which knocked out Kilpatrick’s old-
standing record of lmin. 53 3-ssec., put up in N’Yark in
1895. Frank Skurry Hewitt did it in lmin. 53isec. at
Christchurch (M.L.) in 1871. Wheatley will be a very
hot proposition for the half and the mile in the Victorian
track championships next month.
It is the Lust of Loot that has got Dick Arnst down.
and driven him to seek glory and gonce in the roped
ring. Arnst points out that he has been sculling some
rears now and has accumulated only a paltry £4OOO.
“Why,” he snorts, “if I’m a good fighter, I can make
that much in one big match.” To which a friend might
reply, “You can, Richard, you can—if 'you’re able. But
if you’re not able it means some horrible hidings.” On
the other band, writer, who has been following the game
for years now—from the press seats—has otdy once
seen a hiding that he wouldn’t cheerfully have taken
for half the money, and have reckoned that he was well
paid. Bub the worst part of the business is that it is the
man who gets the biggest share of the bash who gets the
smallest share of the cash. Which doesn’t seem right
somehow. Barring this and' a few other small drawbacks,
the stoush game is not a bad one to be in. If Richard
can succeed therein he is a good man. To begin as a
champion cyclist, evolve into a premier sculler, and
finish up as a topnoteh bruiser would be a great achieve-
ment, and, probably, a profitable one.
* * * *
“Snell ” : The little adventure with the Ameri-
cans, Rav Bronson and Jimmy Clubby, at Melbourne
Athletic Hall the other night, was worth nothing. Fol-
lowers of the game in Footscray and adjacent places were
not buying the goods offered. They had no tickets on
expert strangers up against local novices, and stayed
severely away from the scraps, which were mere exhibi-
tion spars, and not of much value at that, since it is an
easy matter for a moderately clever boxer to get all
around and up and down a comparative mug. Bronson
outed Armstrong in five rounds, after using the lad as a
subject for displaying hits and shifts. Clabby was not at
all eager to give the meagre crowd something for its
money, and put Sanderson hush-a-bye in the second.
Daily paper commentators say he showed all Griffos
cleverness, but Griffo was clever with clever men. A
boxer like Ted Nelson would have taken about 75 per
cent, of the polish off Mr. Clabby’s prettiness.
* * * *
“Bash”: When, will common-sense or an axe
eliminate that objectionable section of fight attendants
who would rather see a plucky but weak man killed than
lose the spectacle of an extra half-round? Referee Sam
Gray (who was a spectator at one ring tragedy of late—
that of “ Soldier ” Rogers) gave the decision against Arm-
strong last week at the Melbourne A.C. ; and when there
was a how'l he met the addle-headed division in the right
way : “ One fool at a time, gentlemen! Ferhaps it would
suit you to see a plucky boy killed ! It doesn’t suit me .
TJie sort of howler under discussion wants emptying out
badly. I’m afraid, though, the Law w ouldn’t look kindly
on the only means I could reconnnond.


I
\ LOOK FOR NAME IN STRAP
Marz Toe
Glace
Kid
Ba!
3?v
\fv\
\&
m
\
22'6
In
any
Leather
More Men
learn true comfort
each seasop by try-
ing the Marshall "Natural Shape”
Shoe.
“ Marshall" Quality (guaranteed),
18,6 to 27, 6.
“ N lint-ax ” Quality (No. 2 Grade).
12/6 to 18/6.
HA IF &■ QUARTER SIZES.
Stocked by all GOOD Dealers. If not
by yours, write us and we will send
Style Book & name of nearest Dealer.
Marshall Shoe Co.,
Richmond, Vic. 272
Light and Durable.
Work in any Soil.
The body of the scoop shown above
is pressed from a plate of toughest
hardened steel. It fills with the
greatest ease whether working in
ploughed ground or otherwise.
Fitted with steel runners and detach-
able handles—the latter should
commend themselves to everyone,
as they can be easily replaced if
broken. Low in price, but durable
as any on the market.
No. Dimensions. Capacity. Weight. Price
1 zzy 2 x32x 7 cubic ft. 1051 b, 37/6
2 31x 29 x 5 cubic ft 951 b. 35/-
3 32 2 cubic ft. 801 b. 32/6
Write for our 256=page Catalogue of
Tools for Farm, Garden and Workshop.
Sent Post Free.
Thos. McPherson 8 Son,
Established SO Years,
582-588 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
‘SHELL’
GIVES
BEST
ALL-ROUND
RESULTS!
UNDER
ALL
CONDITIONS.
AflD THAT’S WHAT YOU NEED.
a n
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
THe “MOTA” (Regd.J.
m
The “ Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking-, driving or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota ” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h.p. Chalmers
£490
s“Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp. THOMAS,
6-Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
I
m.
m
The...
RIGNE.Y
v),' ■ :
Guar-
antee
is most important
to you.
Read it.
If the upper of a
Rigney Shoe breaks
through before the
first sole is worn,
we will replace it
with a new pair.
The Shoe illus-
trated is a choice
Tan Russian Calf
Oxford Shoe, Back
Counter and Per-
forations, Fine-
stitched Welts,
23/6.
Also Dark Tan Shoe, 18/6.
In Lace Boots, ditto. Also Black, 21/=
Postage 9d. extra.
Send us your name and address for a copy of our
New Catalogue.
The RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is undei
the personal management of Mr. F. C. Rigney, the
sole and only proprietor of the above firm,
FOR SALE BY AUCTION,
on Friday, February 10,
at 12 o’clock noon,
30=40 H.P.
Daimler Touring Car.
Complete with Hood, Wind Screen, Stepney
Wheel, Powerful Headlights, Sidelights, Two
Ignitions. Appearance as new. Four Cylinders
124 x 150.
Silent and Very Powerful Car.
Only reason for selling, owner going to England.
To be seen at Dalgety’s, Phillip Street.
James R. Lawson 8 Little,
AUCTIONEERS,
128-130 Pitt Street, near King Street, Sydney.
44 KURLO "-—Hair-Curling Fluid. Beaut ful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo ” produces
most natural-iooking waves or curls in a lew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog,
. sei air, heated ba, rooms, etc. May be used
for Ladies’, Gent ’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
2S. 6a,, post free, in plain wrapper. American Toilet
Agency, Box 466 Q.P.0., Melbourne.
"GRO-A-MO” forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, as., post tree, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 166 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Reasons Why
You should Sell Your WHEAT through us.
1. We have over five acres of floor space in our Warehouse, and can handle a very large
quantity without overcrowding and the attendant danger of mixing brands.
2. Each owner’s consignments stacked and sold separately.
3. The basement floors being of concrete and the ceilings unlined, there is no harbor for
rats and mice.
4. We allow you three or four months’ free storage, if required.
5. We give the most careful attention to every consignment, no matter how small.
6. We guarantee accurate weighing, full market value and prompt returns.
7. If required, we make liberal advances on goods in store awaiting sale.
8. Remember the delay and annoyance occasioned last season through scarcity of
railway trucks, and get your wheat down as early as possible in order to be in a
position to take advantage of any sudden rise in the market. Your wheat is
fully covered by insurance whilst in our stores, and it is much better to have it
stored with us than lying at some country siding where it is not effectually
protected from the weather.
9. Our charges are as reasonable as we can make them, consistent with reliable agency,
which it is our intention to maintain.
SELLING CHARGE, 2J Per Cent.
Cartage from Railway to Store, 3/- per ton. (This charge is avoided
when the Wheat is sold ex Trucks.)
Insurance at ordinary rates when stored for any length of time. (This
charge is avoided when the Wheat is sold ex Trucks.)
When Wheat is sold ex Railway Trucks, the only charge to the consignor is per
cent, commission.
EXPERT VALUATIONS FURNISHED WHEN REQUIRED.
Sample Bags and Addressed Envelopes supplied on application to THE MANAGER,
WOOL and PRODUCE DEPARTMENT,
A. M. L. (Q. F. CO. LTD.
BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY,
"Wool, Produce and Grain Salesmen.
Also at MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
A Low-Priced but Good Cycle.
Our Model 3—Price ill —is a machine which at the price represents
the best cycle investment offering on this market. It is made through-
out of British fittings that are of a standard gauge and size. The frame is
constructed of the finest grade weldless steel tubing, and tvres are the
famous Welsh-Multiflex—the very best made by the Dunlop Rubber 00.
In appearance the machine will compare to any, being finished in three coats of stove enamel-
red, green or blue to order.
If you can call and see one, do so. Or if this is impossible, let us send our catalogue. It tells >
more about the machine.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State, C._ „„
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street, 'jyQflCy.
The Commonwealth Land Tax Office has
been picking up some of the knots which Fat
said couldn’t be unravelled in a life-time; and
they don’t seern such tremendous problems, after
all. There is the old case of the man who bought a
swamp, worth £1 an acre, and turned it into a
garden smiling with pumpkins, dog-roses and
other sweet edibles, and worth £lO an acre. The
tremendous problem in that case was. What is the
unimproved value of that land? (Upon hearing
this you are supposed to hold on to something
in a completely breathless and baffled condition.)
The Land Tax Office’s answer is that, if the
swamp was only worth £1 per acre on June 30,
1910, and the value has since been added,
£1 is the unimproved value. And if the
£9 or the 9s. or the ninepence has been spent in
ringbarking trees, or in filling up a natural chasm,
or in ridding the land of vegetable porcupine,
lantana, or other non-indigenous it all
counts in arriving at the unimprovedAvaljie. In
fact, the Land Tax Office is so little like the' 1
ravening monster the Tory hirelings have, de-
clared it is, that if a man has spent 2s. 6d. on
ringbarking, and has thus appreciated the selling
value of the land £l. he is entitled to charge, not
the 2s. 6d., but the £l, as an untaxable improve-
ment.
DUNLOP
always uarry a
top Flidget Outfit.”
Outwear all Others
• • • Dunlop Rubber C? of Aus.Ltd •••
flelb. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane 3 ChrfcfchurchffZ


A. SAUNDERS
1 LOW. .
PRICED
WEDDING GIFTS
-WE PROMISE PROMPT
MAKE YOUR SELECTION BY MAIL -
PERSONAL ATTENTION AND YOUR PERFECT SATISFACTION.
BEAUTIFUL HIGH QUAUTIED GOODS
JUST OPENED UP.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BOX, Self-acting- Lid, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed and Fluted. Size, llin x 9in.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
DOUBLE PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Fancy China Dishes,
with Spoons, 10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
FRUIT SALAD or PRESERVE DISH,
Floral China Dish, Silver-plated, Nickel
15/6-
Handsome Art
Silver Frame.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON DESSERT STAND, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Handsomely Fluted,
Ball Feet, £3-
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD DISH and SERVERS, Handsome Cut Glass
Bowl, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Mounts,
Squirrel Design, 20 /•
A. SAUNDERS.
DOUBLE EGG-STAND, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, with
Spoons to match, 10/6-
IMillll
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT STAND, Pure Silver-plated
Frames, with Glazed China Centre, in 3
Colours. Size, 6ii) x 6in. 8/6 and 5/8-
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR and FORK,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Crystal Glass Jar.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated SUGAR
SCUTTLE, A 1 Quality,
Hanusomely Engraved,
WE
PAY
CARRIAGE.
WE
PROMISE
SATISFACTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT or PEPPER
CASTOR, Pure Sil-
ver-plated, 3/6 Pair
A. SAUNDERS.
REVOLVING CRUET. Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver on
White Metal, Fancy Engraved
Bottles, JJO /, J2o/, iJO/■
A. SAUNDERS.
SPORTING CUP, Handsomely Embossed and
Engraved, Victory Subjects, Gilt-lined.
Height, 15 inches. £3/10/.
THOUSANDS
OF OTHER
IDEAS IN
OUR FREE
CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE or BISCUIT SERVER, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Handsomely Decorated
China Dish, 7/0-
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver.
2 /-
A. SAUNDERS.
20-inch ENGLISH OAK SALVER, Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver Gallery and Handles; 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM CASTORS, lure
Silver-nlated Nickel Silver, A 1 Qua-
lity, Hand-decorated, Real China
Castors. 30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Fluted
Glass Dish, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Ebony Handle, 30/'
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass
Bottles, 15/6-
Beautiful
Catalogue
Free
Everywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated
Base, with Sheffield Silver Steel Blade Knife,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Sil-
ver, A 1 Quality, Richly Engraved, 22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated, Handsomely Embossed, Silk-lined
Case, 12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
FIVE-BRANCH FANCY SCROLL FLOWER STAND,
! Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Frames, Golden-
tinted Glass Tubes, 15/G-
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE SERVER or CARD TRAY, Handsomely
Embossed, Highly Burnished, 20/-
JEWELLER/
}
SAUNDERs
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807,809,811,815.815,817, GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
'SILVERSMITH
t OHSULT//V<; l
J


<69
rfo
-«*
jr.
MW
•>»
Pi*
&m
f
*
\C'-fi
m
u
■
■
/
VnXvm
X';l • •
r
.
%:
<A
■ ■
»
: •■■> j
mmt
3
=IISVO
<=>3A —4fv
r&r
fill
'
£
*
#
¥
f
m
r
V
?ii*B
v h '9&jC\
£l9 ~i aj
vas
• .
THE
NEW SINGING METHOD
By CHARLES MOREIL.
Endorsed by Madame Melba. Ada Crossley, Amy Castles, Signor Hazon,
Frederick Beard, Gustave Slapoffski, Madame Slapoffski, Ida Osborne,
Mrs. Pauli Carter, Armes Beaumont, Signorina Coy, Bernard Wendlandt,
Maggie Stirling, Dr. McColl, Gregor Wood, . . e tc., etc.
Will Become the Standard Work on the Teaching of Singing.
PRICE
For sale at all Musicsellers throughout Australia
and New Zealand, or direct from the Publishers,
99
POSTED
414
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne. Also at Adelaide, Bendigo & Geelong
BROOKES
K
■ ->'!
So£
\BrooKer> lemon Syt/ash
neath a shady tree
And the fiery wind
//a th no fire for me.
Brooke's L emos"
where'er I may he
coois if e a r/af't •
from the Southern
5»
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
■
'
SMtGEHTi
CAKES-PASTRY-
BISCVJITS •• ETC v
a
t
IK
2
2
5055
ft
fC
D
IT is an easy mat-
* ter to please
family or guests if
you serve Sargents’ Cakes or
Pastry. They are light, dainty
and delicious.
SARGENTS’ MEAT PIES and
FRUIT PIES.
The meat pies are most excellent.
Their tastiness has won for them
a wide reputation. The Fruit Pies are equally good, being mad
from the season’s choicest fruits.
You should try SARGENTS’ BAKED GOODS.
SARGENTS’ LIE
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt Street
(’PI one-Office—2ss9;
Cafe, 1876 ; Catering', 425 C).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth Street


TRADE MARK
YOUTHFUL
APPEARANCE
RENEWED.
Dr. B. Allen’s
(U.S.A.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
( Registered)
Is a simple Washable Liquid for
Grey Hair. Tints Grey or faded
Hair any Natural Shade desircd-
Perfectly safe, pleasant and harm-
less, containing no lead, mercury,
sulphur, silver, etc,
Beware of spurious imitations.
None genuine without the Signa-
ture of —Alfred Ardley.
The American Journal devoted
to Science says :
“ D? Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain
supplies a long-felt want, viz.:
A natural and perfectly safe Brown
Stain for Grey Hair, giving im-
mediate effect, and permanent.
Obtainable from all Chemists and
Stores.
Ladies’ Stylish
Summer
Footwear
PRICE,
16/6
Stylish Shoes p-ive any woman a well-bred
and up-to-date appearance.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the finest im-
ported models, and is eminently suited to the
present fashions.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Cazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Brown,
large tin, 6d.
Write for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
LEEMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. [2
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S 1
iree Witches
CIGARETTES
Mi/!! *
for
Mam
london
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydmy.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
The PEOPLE S MEDICINE
the best and best-known cure
FOR INDIGESTION
AND KINDRED STOMACH AND LIVER TROUBLES—
MOTHER
SEIGEL'S SYRUP.
The claim of Mother Seigel’s Syrup to be the people’s medicine is backed
by the most convincing testimony, based on actual experience. Men
engaged in hard work and in sedentary occupations, men working below
ground, in the fields, on the seas ; men in mills, workshops and offices,
travellers and stay-at-homes ; women wage-earners and busy housewives ;
men and women, young and old, in every walk of life, testify daily that
Mother Seigel’s Syrup has cured them of stomach or liver disorders, and
keeps them well. For forty years, it has never failed the people who
have used it! Can you wonder that to-day, in sixteen countries, it is
their trusted medicine ? Read these typical letters from grateful people!
On April 23, 1910, Mrs. P. A. Dc j
fiookc, of 254, Canning Street,
North Carlton, Victoria, wrote to
the Proprietors oS Mother Seigel's
Syrup, as iollows: —
“ Five years ago, I first had indigestion ;
and for the next three years, it kept me in
constant misery and ill-health. My
appetite failed, until I scarcely ate suffi-
cient to keep a child alive. Of course, my
strength and energy ebbed away until I
was nearly helpless. What little food I
had was mostly slops, as I could not keep
down anything solid.
“ I suffered at various times from head-
aches, heartburn, palpitation and flatu-
lency, constipation, clammy sweats, and
aches and pains from head to foot. Often
I had three or four of these distressing
symptoms together, and then I knew what
it was to feel right down ill.
“ I had medical attention, but I got no
lasting good. Then one of my friends
induced me, two years back, to try Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. I felt greatly relieved after
one bottle of this remedy, and so I kept on
using it until I had taken, in all, four large
bottles of Syrup, and it cured me com-
pletely, thoroughly building up my health
and strength. I can now eat well, have not
an ache or pain, and for these inestimable
benefits I have to thank only Mother
Seigel’s Syrup.”
If you have pains after eating, wind, or
a "sense of fulness in the stomach, a nasty
taste in the mouth or a furred tongue,
headaches, dizziness, specks floating be-
fore your eyes, sleeplessness, languor, or
low spirits, your food is poisoning you,
. instead of doing you good. Mother
Seigel’s Syrup will clear the poison from
your system, prevent fresh poison from
forming, make food nourish you and cure
your ailments as surely and as quickly as
it cured Mrs. De Rooke.
Writing on January 11th, 1910,
from 47, Thomas Street, Redfern,
N. S. W., Mr. E. McKillop says:
For over twelve months I suffered
very much from Indigestion and stomach
disorder. I lost my appetite and became
very weak, nervous and depressed in
spirits. After eating, I had dull, heavy
pains in the chest, where food seemed to
lodge in a hard, solid mass, and this was
often accompanied by flatulency and
other painful stomach troubles. I was
also subject to severe headaches.
“ I tried quite a number of medicines,
both in liquid and solid form, recom-
mended as ‘ remedies ’ for Indigestion, but
they did not help me in the least. It was
just a waste of money purchasing them.
I went on from bad to worse, until I was
induced, through reading a book left at
my place, to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
That was early in 1908.
“ Mother Seigel’s Syrup proved very
different from all other medicines I had
tried, and I was soon convinced that it
was as sure a cure as I had read it was.
The first bottle considerably relieved the
worst of my symptoms, and restored my
appetite. After that, I picked up so
rapidly that, by the time I had finished
two more bottles of Mother Seigel’s Syrup,
I could eat anything I had a mind to, and
was a well man again. I was, in fact,
completely cured of my Indigestion and
other ailments and I still enjoy the good
health which Mother Seigel’s Syrup
brought back to me.”
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is a herbal tonic for the stomach, liver and
bowels; and that is all that people need when they suffer from stomach
or liver troubles, such as pains after eating, fulness at the thes ,
flatulence, heartburn, biliousness, headaches, constipation, dizziness,
sleeplessness, or that “run-down” feeling. The people who nave had
such troubles as these, and have taken Mother Seigel’s Syrup, have been
cured by the thousand, even after all else had failed. If you have any
stomach or liver trouble, Mother Seigel’s Syrup, the people s medicine
will quickly cure you and make you strong and well!
The Only Manufacturers of the Genuine “ WEDGWOOD ” CHINA-
Josiah Wedgwood 8 Sons Ltd.,
Etruria, England.
Established 1760.
OUR REGISTERED TRADE MARK IS
Our Trade
Mark
is not
Wedgwood
Ltd.
WEDGWOOD
if
(ONE WORD ONLY)
Our Trade
Mark
is not
Wedgwood
& Co.
Sole Australasian Representatives —
WM. HODGE S SON,
91a YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
29 ELIIOT ST., AUCKLAND, N. 2.
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment Included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
S. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Commonwealth has a far-seeing youngster
in the service at Southern Cross (W.A.). He is a tele-
eraph messenger, and the Commonwealth should hang
on to him. A sharebroker in search of an office bov
asked the voungster how much the Commonwealth paid
him. “Twelve and six,” said the boy. “Well, I want a
boy. Come to me and I’ll give you a pound a week.
“ That’s all right,” said the youngster. “But the Gov-
eminent is always here, and where’ll I find you when
the boom bursts?”
■* * * *
“ Ossian ” : In Queensland a Judge’s Associate
receives an official salary of £250; but the perks niake
the job worth while. An associate is the custodian of t
exhibits ; and as exhibits often have an important rela-
tion to the evidence, copies of them are frequently ob-
tained from the associate. Charge: Is. per folio of ,72
words. So, too, when a Judge’s decision is appealed
from, copies,of his notes are furnished for the use of the
Appeal Court; and these, too, the associate cheerfully
supplies at the same rate. As a rule, he does not
make the copy : he hands the Judge’s notebook over
to a typewriting school or business “college,” where'
boy and girl labor enables the proprietor to make a profit
bv producing the copy 7 at 2d, a folio, and Id. a folio for
each carbon. The associate authenticates these copies,
for which genteel service he pockets the ,rest. When the
associate slogs at the typewriter he can easily make'a
ten-poqjid note in a few hours ; and as for the High
Court—where the payment is Is. 3d. a folio—an associate
onbe made £l5 in three hours. Should “ the Crown" be |
supplied with Judges’ notes, as it frequently is when the
Executive deals with capital cases, it pays just the sinne
as ordinary litigants. Generally speaking, the worse an
associate’s boss, the better the associate’s pay; for the
I associate scores most heavily when “ the old man’s” law
has a tendency to wob'.le and precipitate appeals.
* * * *
“T. P. Banger”: May an English girl add to-
the thrilling subjects of debate that crop up in Tub
j Bulletin? I &ni a new arrival, a Suffragette, arid last,
but not least, a typiste—not least, because typing earns
me my bread and butter. I put the last qualification (or,
would you call it a disqualification ?) with fear and trem-
bling, as in England that nobler member of society, the
male clerk, regards us with undisguised and unmitigated
hatred. I am wondering if his equivalent in Australia
regards us in the same way. In the Daily Mail, during
a debate on the merits and demerits of the female
as against the male clerk, one of the latter de-\
scribed us as “those flat-chested typewriter-bangers,
with one eye on the clock and the other on
a possible husband.” Spite, of course. In the office
where I was employed in London, there were 25 typistes,
and at least 20 of us had good frontal developments, and
not one had eyes which looked two ways at once ; aim I
could point you out hundreds of offices in England
where the girls are absolutely good-looking, and get
many chances of marrying both possible and im-
possible husbands without even looking for them. As
soon as we had recovered our united breaths, we up and
smote that male hip and thigh. We reminded him that we
had come out top, as far as typewriting was concerned,
through sheer merit. It was the survival of the fittest,
and though it was not essential to have a 3Sin. chest in
order, to type intelligently and well, it was important
that a girl’s eyes should match, and if she could perform
the feat of looking at the clock and a possible husband at
one and the same time, she couldn’t be much use in an
office. I felt better after I had helped to say that, and I
was nearly staying on in London ; but I didn’t —I came
to Sydney. And before I begin playing the music agaffi I
would like to know whether the Australian clerk looks
on ns with the same warm feelings of disregard. If he
does, I don’t think 1 shall begin at all— way.
“Rod” : If the gift of detecting and seizing
opportunity by the scalp-lock spells success, there is a
fish hawker in this sinful old city who’ll end up as a
squatter or a bank manager. For hours he had
pushing round a marine suburb a barrow laden with fish,
which announced their approach two streets away, and
business was almost as dead as his wares. Arriving at
the beach, he pulled up for a spell, and it was there
Opportunity introduced herself in the shape of a boat
moored but a few feet out. To see was to realise, and
hastily running his barrow out of sight, he filled
a basket full of the long-deceased fish and
waded out with them to the boat. He threw
his coat across the bows, dipped his fish in the sea to
shine them up, and pulled the boat up to the beach, as a
fisherman just home from the distant nets. The haul
was sold out in about lOmins., and he had sneaked back i
from the barrow with another consignment when the
owner of the boat returned. A look was as good as a
sniff to that individual, and he demanded a percentage
of the profits. But this the hawker righteously and
vigorously resented ; and when I left he had the other
down in the water, and was busy murdering him with a
mullet. _
* * * *
“Gr.R.F.”: “The Australian who has been
through the lugger-owning business” (B. 13/10/10) is a
contradictory cuss. First of all, he says that white
divers can’t be got, and in the next dip of ink says they
should be got; and that, with me, he would like to see
the industry in the hands of the whites, but that diving
doesn’t appeal to the white man. I am notin error, as
he says, in asserting that the Asiatic is cheaper than the
white man, and I pay no heed to the fairy tales told
about the advances of £lOO and £l3O to divers before
they sign on. I have had a good deal to
do ' with the signing on of divers, and never
paid more than £3O. I have heard of bigger sums
being paid, but never met the diver who received the
money. Divers’ advances are in the same category as
actresses’ £lOO-a-week salaries—mostly mythical. The
sole reason Asiatics are used on the pearling boats is their
cheapness. The master-pearlers are mean. The wages
of the Asiatics are mostly taken out in slops, etc., for
whioh they pay high prices. I agree that better quarters
I are wanted in the luggers to make them suitable for
civilised people, but legislation could easily bring that
about. The insolence of the Asiatic, both afloat and
ashore, is the fault of the white men who have to do with
him. The Asiatic must be kept in his place if good
work is to be got out of him, and the only way
to put him in his place if he kicks over the
traces, is the use of brute force. A hunk of firewood is
a good argument, and never failed on the Ethel station.
I attribute the mutiny of the Ethel and the murder of
Captain Reddell and the other whites to the “ old
man’s” inability through age to keep the colored men in •
their place, and the habit the white carpenter had of
fraternising with them and treating them as equals.
Let the Legislature once say that the Asiatic pearl-
sheller is to go, and I guarantee that therfe will be no
lack of white shellers. But there is not room for both.
* * * *
For a mining town Kalgoorlie (W.A.) does a
lot of things it ought to be ashamed of. For one thing
it sends its clothes to Jap laundries—and those Jap
laundries actually employ white washerwomen ! The
latter have, in some cases, tried to make a living as white
washerwomen, but have failed. Kalgoorlie would only
let them wash its dirty linen after it had put them into a
position where the Jap can sweat them.
JUST CAUSE FOR COMPLAINT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Despite the protests of the Sussex-street merchants , they
were finally informed by the N.S.W. chief inspector that
the 76S bag's of Tasmanian potatoes which were con-
demned as being- diseased would have to go back.—Du-
graceful news item.
There’s a pitiful cry from Sussex-street—the place where
they sell the spuds—
And ashes are on the brokers’ heads, and the merchants
have rent their duds ;
For a vicious, malicious, officious Bloke, a regular Jump-
ing Jack,
Has had the gall, the ineffable gall, to order potatoes
back! —
Alack !t
He’s sent them away (and ivho’s to pay ?) because they
are blighted and black !
There’s a deuce of a row in Sussex-street —where the
profits are scarce and small—
Because of the high-handed, Czar-like act of a Bloke with
Unbounded Gall ! , ,
He’s harshly said that the spuds were bad!—ana tne
merchants are moved to tears ; ,
They know it is simply a lunatic’s fad—they ve sold em
for years and years !
(Loud jeers!) 1 , . ~ , „ ,
So tbev curse the State ( who’ll pay the freight ;), for
whaT ip tup. Public hears?
N.S.W.
PETRONIUS EAERTTER.


WHY AUSTRALIANS BUY
THREE TIMES AS MANY
BEALE PIANOS
AS OF ANY OTHER MARE:
Mainly because of their Unique Tone.
The Sounding=Board is a highly important part, because upon it
principally depends the quality and volume of the tone.
It should be constructed on principles very similar to those of the violin-
h i belly ; but only in a few of the world's best makes of pianos is this practice
followed, because it entails much labor, expense and expert knowledge.
The grain of the timber must be carefully graded, from fine in the
treble to coarse in the bass, so as to accord with the varying vibrations of
the notes. In addition, the whole sounding-board must be accurately
bevelled, or chamfered, from treble to bass, and bellied , or curved \ just as is
seen in a good violin.
There are other details too technical to describe here ; but what we want
to say is that the entire process is follozved with minute care in the construction of
Beale High-Grade Pianos,
ensuring a delightful tone-quality, which has often been remarked upon by
competent judges.
Tlie timber used is from thousand-year-old sequoias, dried by many
years’ exposure, and containing the maximum resonance. We absolutely
guarantee our sounding-boards. against any climatic influence.
You only need to hear and to play upon the new Beale High-
Grade Pianos, and you will be finally convinced as to their quality. . And their
moderate price, compared with the best imported instruments, is very evident.
The best proof of the high quality of BEALE High-Grade PIANOS is this: the BETTER they become
known, the MORE we sell of them! Give this a moment’s thought.
FOUR TIMES in ten years we have had to largely increase the capacity of our factories, and we are now
engaged on the greatest addition yet made; yet we still cannot keep pace with our orders!
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 George St., Sydney
(3 Doors from
G.P.0.)
107 Swanston St., Melbourne
291 Queen St., Brisbane (next G.P.O . —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundie St., Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay St., Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Travellers Everywhere. Write for Catalogue. 25 Years’ Guarantee.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR. ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Cash or Easy Terms. Repairs and Tuning.
Save Importers' Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


I
8
flit:
m
■
s
Ji
■
m
i
/:
m
I
HMI
II
I
■
DU
m
i
■2
■
I
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
A,
VIC and
and all porls in each
AUSTRALIAN STATE
ADELAIDE S. C 9 Ltd A.U.S.N.C 0 LIMITED
HOWARD SMITH C°L TD HUDDART PARKER&C?P TY L TD
.
M C ILWRAITH, M9EACHARN & C° P TY L!°
OFFICES & ACEN TS AT ALL PORTS


“Locust”: The late Professor Goldwin
Smith left an article, published in the Nineteenth
Century and After, in which he tells some stories
of Robert Lowe—our Australian Lowe, after-
wards Viscount Sherbroke, whose heirs still own
much real estate in Sydney. “An albino with
weak eyes—so weak that when he was reading his
nose literally touched his book,” is Goldwin
Smith’s description of the man. Lowe was also
described as “ the most natural and spontane-
ously brilliant talker that I ever knew.” “Look
at that fool throwing away his natural advantages, ”
Lowe exclaimed, when a deaf M.P. put up his
ear-trumpet. Smith tells, too, of Lowe’s
vivacity. On a visit to Ireland “ a party of us,
including the old Lord Chancellor, went to see
Powerscourt waterfall. Our cars brought us back
to the station some time before the arrival of the
train. Po fill up time Lowe said : ‘Let us have
a row with the carmen about the fare.’ A row
it actually became, and the Lord Chancellor
looked the picture of dismay.” I made my own
first visit to the House of Lords in 1890. Coming
away after hearing Salisbury’s speech in which he
attacked Parnell about the fire-escape—it was a
few days after the celebrated O’Shea divorce suit
I saw a feeble old man feeling his way towards
the barrier entrance to the chamber. He had
long white hair, black glasses over his eyes, and
an attendant was assisting him in his laborious
progress. Bradlaugh, who was piloting me, said :
“ There’s a man who ought to be known to vou as
an Australian.” “Who is it?” “That’s all
that’s left of Bob Lowe, Viscount Sherbroke ! ” I
need hardly say I looked with absorbing interest
at the man who made his mark in Australia, and
afterwards for a brief period was Gladstone’s col-
league and then most formidable rival.
, Missing: Friends.
J F JOHN DANIEL HEAL, son of the late John Daniel
1 Heal, of the Prince Consort Hotel, Wickham Street,
Brisbane, Queensland, will communicate with the
undersigned, he will hear of something to his advantage.
Any person knowing the whereabouts of the above person
will please communicate with us.
MacPHERSON, GREEN & MacPHERSON
Solicitors,
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
CLARA ANN HUNT. -Will Claha Ann
Hunt, daughter of the late Alfred Hunt,
of Lancefield, please communicate with The
Trustees Executors & Agency Co. Ltd., of 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, to her advantage.
JOSEPH RAYMOND SMITH,
late GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
GILBERT WILKINSON wishes you return
immediately. Nephew Bert dead; Mother very
unwell. Fare forwarded if necessary ; wire at once.
Amusements.
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
AN ABSOLUTE SENSATION,
BIGGER THAN THE BIGGEST PANTOMIME.
The Wonderful Drury Lane Drama, by Cecil Raleigh
and Henrv Hamilton,
THE WHIP.
Interpreted by A COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY
Specially Selected bv Mr. J. C. Williamson.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENINfii at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUR MISS GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
pALACE THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : Hugh J. Ward.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEES WEDNESDAYS.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY
OF COMEDIANS,
including MISS GRACE PALOTTA, presenting
THE GIRL FROM RECTOR’S.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4,
THE GREATEST COMEDY HIT IN TWENTY YEARS,
SEVEN DAYS.
Prices—s/-, &/-. 2/-, I/- PI .n at Elvy’s.
RITERIO N THEA T R E, SYDN E Y.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY., LTD., SEASON.
ANOTHER BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
THE ENGLISH COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the First
Production in Sydney for a Short Season only of
TOM JONES.
IT IS A REAL COMIC OPERA.
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
T
L_YG EUM
EVENING AT S
H E.
EYERY
Mati nees -Wednesdays Saturdays and Houdays at 2 -30
C PENCERSIHEATREJCOPE (?
J PICTURES
SJRE SUPE/ZIO/Z ro PLC OTrtEJZS.ra
Popular Prices Plam at Palings.
M
AX MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC BOOM
NEWCASTLE SEASON ENDS FRIDAY,
FEBRUARY 3.
ADELAIDE SEASON OPENS SATURDAY,
FEBRUARY 11.
The glaciarium, sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER
WEST’S PICT UEE S,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. rT. J. Wf.st.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at, Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra):
HE MAORI VILLAGE,
CLONTARF.
MAGGIE PAPAKURA.
WEIRD HAKAS. GRACEFUL POI
DANCES, DELIGHTFUL SINGING.
I W A.
PRICES—ONE SHILLING and SIXPENCE.
STEAMERS—FORT MACQUARIE, 2.15, 2.30, 7.45.
SPIT WHARF (Adams’ Boatshed and Manly side),
AT FREQUENT INTERVALS.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mtt. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
“OUR HEBREW FRIEND,” JULIAN ROSE, Humorist.
WILD. WILLIE and WEST, Comedy Acrobats.
MISS ETHEL LOFTUS, Popular Young' Comedienne.;
MDLLE. YETTA, Sensational Queen of Wire Walkers.
THE BLESSINGS, Equilibrists and Balancers.
Continued Success of MR. FRANK HARWOOD,
BABY WATSON, LORNA and TOOTS POUNDS,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FASOLA, Indian Fakir and Illusionist.
KAVANAGH BOYS, Tennis Racquet Jugglers.
COOPER & LAIT, Musical Comedy Artists.
BARNOLD’S ANIMAL ACTORS.
WOODS & FRASER, Comedy Sketch Artists.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
OLGA MONTEZ.
X3T PRICES—3s., 25., Is-
Plan at Allan’s.
MELBOURNE.
JHEATRE ROYAL,
SATURDAY FEBRUARY 4,
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S ENTIRELY NEW
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE GAY GRIS KITE.
MUSICAL FRIVOLITY IN TWO ACTS.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manasrer : William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 4,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in D. Edmund’s New Australian Drama,
MY MATE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —35., 2s. and Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC CO.
in
THE LUCK OF ROARING CAMP.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Reserved Seats, 4/-
| lER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* ■ Lessee and Manasrer: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Funny
Pantomime,
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
For which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS,
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been organised
such as has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
taiEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THK best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
An v Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—od. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, January 20, 1911.'
CLOSER. SETTLEMENT.
CROWTHER ESTATE,
Young Land District.
22 FARMS will become available February 20, 1911.
Applications lodged from February 20 to 25, 1911, will be treated as simultaneous.
Full particulars. Lithographs, Application Forms, etc., may be obtained at the Information Bureau
Department of Lands, Sydney, or any Crown Land Agent throughout the State.
ROBERT McDONALD, Under-Secretarv.
Sell.
This lOs. 6d. Watch for 3s. lid.
To induce you to smoke “ King of All ” Cigars or “ Corn Cob ” Tobacco, we will
sell you this 10/6 Watch (guaranteed five years) for 3/11, if bought at the same time as
• any of these purchases :• —
CIGARS : Four for 1/-Sample Box of 10, 2/6 ; 50 for 9/6 ; Box of 100, 18/6.
TOBACCO : 2oz.- “ Corn Cob,” packet, cut light or dark, lOd. : -Watch, 3/11 ; postage 6d.
Total, 5/3;' Inter-State, ,2d. extra. 4oz. “Corn Cob,” plug, light or dark, 1/4; the
“ Cbrn Cob ’’ Watch, 3/11; postage 6d. ; total 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lib.
boxes, 6/- ; 2nz. packets, 6/6. Inttr-State, 3d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney. Kstablisbed 30 years.
WHY, YOU’RE GETTING QUITE GREY!
YOUR GREY HAIR !
When your friends begin to tell
you you’re going grey, it is time
for you to sit up and take notice.
McGee’s Celebrated
Hair Stain
will color the grey hair a natural
Brown or Black, easily, quickly
and permanently.
Prices 4/6 and 8/6 a bottle.
Posted 9d. extra, N. S.W. ; Inter-
State, 1/2.
YOUR GREY MOUSTACHE
accentuates the lines about the
face, and makes you look older
than you feel.
McGee’s Moustache
Dye
will restore the color to the grey
hairs, and take years off your
appearance.
Price 3/=
Posted, N.S.W. free; Inter-State,
3 / 2 -
ANDREW McGEE
Gentlemen’s
Hairdresser,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
THE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE
■ EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, l/R,
I/-, 6d. Matinees—Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
0 PEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. HILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.30.
TH E POLL I!• S
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/«, 1/.. fit.
WORTHS ©LTMPIA.
.LX EVERY EYENINGiAT 8
Matinees-Wednesdays. Saturdays and Moudays at 2 -30.
IT;
o rttiE SUPERIOR TO PLL OTHERS, o
Popular Prices —Plan as Isual«>*
Business Announcements.
ABBOTT
AUSTRALIAN FILTERS
have the highest
app ro va 1 of the
Hoard of Health.
WATER BAG
FILTERS
For the .Station and
Farm.
Small size, 15/- ea.
Large „ 20/- ea.
We manufacture
all kinds of Filters.
Write for Catalog.
We advise on all
matters of Filtra-
tion.
N. GUTHRIDGE,
Ltd.,
Manufacturing
Proprietors,
263 George St.,
SYDNEY ;
525 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
ii. "m
i ill
n
BSSSi#
Combined Water Ba?r & Filter.
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Niblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently.
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of r commendation from
Doctors, Clergymen and other persons of athe
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.—Send for very interesting booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. ltocKk,
Tompsitt & Co., 292 to 298 Flinders St., Melbourne.
"AWL-VOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
< EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s. Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense value in repairs to Hoots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
I repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
is the “ Avvl-you-w.int." Thread, from the
'reel (which may be kept in ones pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sevdng Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, I arpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles— l bent, 1 straight— 1 reel
prep.ired cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras Cotton,
cd., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4<1.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send post d note to
STAR NOVELTY 00., 229 CoLins Street Melbourne.
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(invisible
DEAFNESS
And HEAD NO T SES Beloved bv
Using WILSO-.’S COMMON-SENnK
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific.invention entirely different
in con-trnction trom all otiter devices,
't hey liave restored hearing when other
devices fai ed and medical skill gave no
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., v9 Cohini
Street., Melbourne.
*
i.
-
« MH‘fij !]//|
I
MANICURING attachments for “ filing and buffing”
Nails by Electricity.
“RADO BELLS ” for Face and Scalp Culture, etc.
ELECTRIC HAIR DRIERS.
Designed to supply a long-felt want among hairdressers, and for home use.
Easily operated. Weighs only 2^ lb. Can be connected to any electric
lighting socket. Will operate, on BOTH direct and alternating current. Blows
HOT or COLD air by a turn of the switch attached to the instrument. Will
) dry a heavy head of hair in io minutes. It saves time, and time is money.
Electric Massage Vibrators.
In various designs for BARBER SHOPS, MASSEURS, BEAUTY PAR-
LORS, or HOME USE. Hairdressers can increase the revenue of the saloon
without employing extra labor. Powerful, durable and noiseless. Gives either rotary
or percussion stroke of smooth, even, penetrating vibration, suitable for Scalp,
Facial or Body Massage. NO VIBRATION in the handle to tire the operator.
A
IVENS IVENS,
231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne;
54 Margaret Street, Sydney.


Shipping,
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
Carrying- one class of passengers only.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Jtw.HO'iRNK Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adkt.aipk Ac Frkmanti.k Agents : OH). W![,LS&CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-'uxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Room", Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Pi,ace, Sydney.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
~ j)ank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves. .. 370,000.
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Mianager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and. Bridge Sts.
A|at lager.: J, P, CA,NN,A\.
Local Tj>irect,or ; :
EO|I.ST(T]II|, Psq, (Burns, Pbilp.A Co., Ltd,.),
LONDON qFFICEr: 4, QUEEN, VICTORIA STREET, E.O.
.Manager:. R, R : . 1,0,V8,
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY; & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND, and, in,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.,
Qank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING* GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up, .... ... ... £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .... .. .. .... £500,000
Reserve Fund andi Undivided- Profits £864,134
GRANTS QRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji., Great Britain
and Ireland, and, Qtjjer places.
RECEIVES; DEPOSITS
transacts, all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Banking- business.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED. CAPITAL - . - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED. - £1,042.900
PAID-UR ....... £958,172
HEAP OFFICE—George anil King Streets, Sydney..
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTORS— Philip IT. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
Ij, Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, fCt. ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Sijttor, lit., M.L.C. ; Rowland., Hi.
Duckkr, Esq. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.O.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland!
Agencies throughout the Australian Onnmonwealth,.
New amt all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. .. £Bno,ooo 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,454 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors : .lAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. OALLAN, Esq., M.L.C.;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, E-q.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ========s
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance. Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33.858,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4.727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Citief Office for New South Wales;
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Shipping;.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BT
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 3012 s
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt. Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR • WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
rflHI BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
JL Series. IV'., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. j Packet of Ten, Gd. Forwarded Post Free
to, any address.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers*
MEDIC, 12,C00 cons, Co sail about
February 18.
AFRIC, 12,000 cons, to sail about
March 18.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
KARKS -rn e r norD r rba ” "o 0 M £ io 0 0
Melbourne 1 lu u
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from -S 0 »
Pamplilets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
AgentB in Australia.
TN€ »B€RP€€N UN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
a One class only. h Calls Hobart.
Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £‘2o Os.
Capetown & Durban, from £3l 10s.. £l3 13s £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
! Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line—£ll2
(First-class each way); £B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
t
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Mar. 10, April 21 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Feb. 24, April 7. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PH ILF* & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Commissioners have MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS and SETTLERS from £5O to £2OOO, repayable by
instalments extendin';- over 80 years. Lou rales of interest and special repayment privileges.
The Saving's Bank Department accepts DEPOSITS from 1/- up to £5OO. Interest paid on the minimum
monthly balance.
ADVANCES MADE UP TO £25, 000 at moderate rates of interest on City or Country Freeholds.
Full particulars and forms of application at any Branch, Post Office Agency, Crown Lands Office, or at the
Head Office, MOOItE STREET, SYDNEY. J. 11. Davies, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnckland, Esq.
Hiehard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normaud MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington''Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
"With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on,. Foreign places DIRECT. “F’oreijrn Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL'FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells &. Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. Central 2196.
-And 605 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing' thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Sava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Bet Snakes, 20/-, Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6 ; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchases Packed Free and Labelled.
Collections of Cenuine Curios from £3.
Ball-
Pens.
To the Busy Man they
mean comfort and
economy of time!
They neither Spurt
Pointed
Perfect!
(■
To the Occasional Writer
they are simply a
treasure!
Splutter nor Stick.
Get a 6d. Sample Box from your Stationer.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* and
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
OAPIT. jiL PAID-UP £90,000 O' 0
RESEI/VE FUND (In vested in Debentures
St tick, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 1 0
Dir tcTORS : It. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John (Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Prate : J. 11.
MacPgarland, Eso., M.A., LU.D. ; Alexander M'Oracken.
JAMES BO It ROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager..
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
-
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A.; E. Owen Cox (6irt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Put St., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Feb. 4 and
Mar. 4
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
insr with Kontnbana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to o»irna.
S.S. Grantala, Feb. 11.
S.S. Yonprala, Feb. 18.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents,*6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-screw Steamer.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United Slates
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Kailway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.'.
Managing A (rents, 259 Geortre-street, Sydney.
F.
vS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ SOMERSET,”
11.300 Tons. B. G. Hayward. Commander
Will he despatched from SYDNEY - - - - 7th Feb.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - - 11th Feb.
„ „ „ ADELAIDE - - - 15th Fell.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers Supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric liifht throughout,. Return
and Round Trip tickets i.-sued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class. /
LIVERIX)OL d [ £49 10s - ]3s - £1 » 15s - •‘'■l7l7a.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pasi.iiihlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Sidney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart ;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne:
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Ihe Commercial Banking Co.,
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS: a?
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. j. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. .James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massif..
Head Office: GeOrge Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant : VV. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,.
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . .
effected on all classes of w
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured .*
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
C 'IHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other:
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 Georg*
Street, Sydney.


m
s EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS !
Temperature mild ; Atmosphere exhilarating ; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
The Leading Hotel —the Fashionable Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished ; Excellent
Attendance s' First-class Cijisine ; Kosher Meat; Telephone; Electric Light; Select Billiard
Room, etc. Central Situation; close to River, Rail, Trams, G.P.0., Tourist Bureau, etc.
Rooms now being booked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfield Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant*
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISIIOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
mm
m
V
Q
'nT
CQ
7
m
&
>#
"V
r\
<i
TtttOIUY/
TYRE }m
DUILT on
/CIETYFIPIC
PRinCIPLE/
the
i /ILVERTOWH
1 RUBBER p
?79 GEORGE / r
3 /YDHEY
=1
1
p.
FOR
THE TOP
OF YOUR HOUSE USE^^
Congo Roofing^
Congo is easy matter to lay and it will last ten years or more. Two
paintings in the course of the ten years are all that we recommend. It never
gets brittle or dry. It never rots or decays. It never gets soft or spongy.
It does not change in character in any temperature or exposure. Nails and
cement are supplied free. Sample on request.
On the bottom use Congo Damp Course. Before the earth is filled in
around the foundation of your new building, cement at least one layer of Congo
Damp Course against the wall; then fi’l in the earth against it and your wall
will be damp-proof and vermin-proof. The use of Damp Course insures dtf,
healthy, sanitary cellars at insignificant cost.
G. C. Delittar, Sydney, N. S. W., Australasian Representative for "Congo”
i
Congo Damp Course
AGENTSNoyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney ; Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd., Melbourne ; Brabant & Co.,
Brisbane ; Walter Reid & 00., Rockhampton ; Harrold Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri
& Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ; William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; Jn,-Hobart, Tasmania.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
See the name on the hosiery and
underwear you buy. They are made from Australian
wool of the highest quality only, finished in the
way, which leaves it beautifully soft and
silky, absorbent and unshrinkable.
"Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear, for Men. Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men's Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock
he can obtain it from his *’ rJ> “
wholesale house.
In case of difficulty vtrite ',r
” Jason " Booklet and
name of nearest Agent ,
to
Jason Hosiery Co..
Leicester, England.
Aai ‘ I
*8
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by tbe new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Rurgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming- season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
[4
Onoto
Pen
THINK
OF THE li K
Ink wells are not
safe things around the
heme. A careless movement
and cushions, carpets, curtains
may be spoilt—as well as clothes.
The Onoto Self-filling Safety Fountain
Pen —Never leaks
—Fills Hself in s flash
—Writes smoothly and speedily.
It is a perfect writing implement, and costs but
12/- at all stationers, jewellers and stores. And it is
British made.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to THOS.
DE La RUE <fc CO , Ltd., 261 Bunliill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representative, Norman Baker, 50 York St., Sydney.
IMPORTANT.— For those who require a larger pen with a very flexiblo
nib, the new “G” has been put on the maiket.
Ask for Onoto Ink—the best for Fountain and all other pens.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
Invaluable
forlheSKlN
in HOT
orCOLD
climafes.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
Lait
a/ro
RegK
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet,
LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTE
[aH!K T illlM
OSTRICH PLUHES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA. ,
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inche*).
Thi» style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any addr&ss.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-rlay. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade
P»._ street, Sydney.
[Mention Tiie Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
SHAVE WITH A “PLUM”!
WE sell Ihe srenuine “ PLUM it has a keen silver steel
blade, finely tempered, and we put the rifrht shaving
edge on each “ PLUM ” before it {roes to you. Guar-
anteed for two years—we keep it in order free for that time.
PLUM RAZOR,
10/0
The C. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at nig h t.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop. 10/6 and 7/6
Cther good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Prtgt Kree.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES. TV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... fid
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d


Piße Brothers, Limited,
Sole Queensland Agents for the Famous
‘‘Burberry” Gabardine Combination Raincoats
(POROUS).
The Finest Coats In the World. Perfectly Ventilated.
UNLINED. —Cut loosely and entirely free from Rubber, making them self
ventilating. An ideal Waterproof G-arment - - -
75/=
LINED.— As used by Medical Men. The very Coat for Riding, Driving,
Fishing, Shooting, Golf, etc. The particular shape and cut giving
absolute freedom
105/=
WRITE FOR OUR LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
BRISBANE, Townsville, Toowoomba and London.
HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.“*l
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
IN BANANA LAND
Woolly Western Queensland is at present
overrun by land-seekers from N. S. Wales and
Victoria. Of two selections tendered for lately in
Central Queensland, one attracted 32 applicants,
ten of whom came from “ Noo South,” three from
Victoria and one from M.L. Queensland is enjoy-
ing its eighth consecutive good season, and after
every one of them prices have been shoved up a
little bit higher. Present values are, therefore,
phenomenally high ; and yet a good many pro-
perties in the market are alleged to show 35 per
cent, on the price demanded —said 35 per cent,
being, of course, calculated on the earnings of the
last season or two of exceptionally fat yields sold
at exceptionally fat prices.
“Politicus”: “It is bad business,” said
William Kidston last week, “ that. .the State
Government in Queensland should be paying
£50,000 or £OO,OOO for interest on properties held
and used by the Commonwealth for 9| years.”
One would imagine that the Commonwealth had
collared the aforesaid properties and removed
them holus bolus to foreign parts, and that
Queensland was now paying a regular interest
liill on the cost of Post and Telegraph offices
which had been transported to Singapore or Siam.
\ViUiam Kidston thinks it’s “ bad business” that
the Queensland taxpayer should pay interest on
the cost of buildings used by the Queensland tax-
payer, and tries to persuade that same taxpayer
that, if the Commonwealth Government took
over the burden, Queenslanders would somehow
evade payment of interest. What is the length,
in Kidston’s opinion, of the ears of the average
Queensland elector ?
“A. W. U.” ; A beer famine which threatens
Chillagoe, through the interruption of the Cairns
railway, recalls a similar disaster at O.K. An
unusually long and moist’wet season had blocked
the roads. Coke supplies first gave out; but as
they don’t eat coke up there that didn’t worry the
local coDper-gougers. When the tucker dimin-
ished to vanishing point, things were admitted to
be more serious. But real calamity did not arrive
until the publicans issued a manifesto that the
beer barrels were empty. After a dry eternity
lasting a fortnight, it was decided in desperation
to send a cart to meet the nearest grog team,'
which had approached over the dreadful roads
with the alacrity of a hamstrung tortoise to within
12 miles. A dozen volunteers departed with the
cart to assist in the transhipment, and an anxious
township waited on the rise near the first pub for
the deliverers. The sequel is too sad to dwell
upon. The cart never returned, nor did the
emissaries; and it was weeks before the regular
current of beer was restored to O.K.
The sugar industry, which was going to be
flattened right out if it couldn’t keep its beloved
Tommy Tanna, seems to be pulling through some-
how. Maclcav, which was unusually dead-sure
regarding the flattening-out, has just witnessed a
wild rush for new pub licenses, no less than 11
applications being made in January. Two were
for the town and the other nine for sites alongside
neighboring sugar-mills. Most bf the mills already
have two pubs—one at the front door and another
at the back—while one has four. The result of a
four-days’sitting was the granting of one town
license and another for a pub at a new s ipjll. The
rest were thrown out or adjourned. The most
striking thing about the whole business was that
the men already in the Bung trade swore that an-
other pub was needed to catch the overflow. One
Bung, in fact, said that on pay-nights he could do
with 50 extra bedrooms and a bar 14 times bigger
than the one in which his four barmaids and two
barmen worked his beer-pumps.
Died at Einasleigh, on January 20, from
miners’ phthisis, Edward Drawbridge, a well-
known Croydon and Etheridge mining man. He
was at Croydon in the champagne days, and one
of the sensational mines on the Golden Gate was
named after him. His last job at Croydon was to
manage the Homeward Round Block.
Parishioners of All-Saints’, Brisbane, made
a desperate effort the other day to retain their
beloved Douglas Price; but Archbishop Donald-
son would not budge an inch. “ Before Mr. Price
came,” said one petitioner, “ our church was only
a millinery show ! ” But the average Archbishop
would much rather see the church a ‘ millinery
show ” than find it developing into what he would
consider'a heresy-mill.
A division of the Jondaryan shire received
recently the nomination of one A. Rutledge,
signed by Harry Quarrelsome, Wm. Discontented,
•Tos. Neverpleased, Charles Distempered, and Geo.
Neversatisfied. The customary £5 deposit came
along with the nomination, and. the returning
officer seems to reckon that fiver is in imminent
danger of forfeiture. The boom is universal in
Bananaland, extending even into the joke market.
INJUSTICE.
NURSE: “I’ll have no more nonsense. You wash yourself immediately."
PATIENT: “ Well, if this ain’t coinin’ it a bit too strong! When I come in you made me ’ are
a barth, an’, now per bloomin’ well want me to wash meself hevery mornin.” (Plain-
tively.) “ Why, it brings rue down ter bein’ a kid agen.”
A very wealthy Brisbane church is situated
in the same street as quite a number of tenements
devoted to the habitation of the lower order of
Flossie. The temple aforesaid, disliking the
associations connected with the name of the
avenue, has induced the City Council to change
the label to something less odoriferous. That is
the genuine Wowserite notion of reform. Either
move the garbage heap into the next street, or
christen it Attar of Roses.
The West is again to the fore. Two
journalists of Charleville propose to enter the ring
next week and settle therein their little differ-
ences. The Times has just accepted the chal-
lenge of the Guardian, a deposit of £lO has been
made, and much effusion of editorial blood and
paste and subsequent printers’ ink is confidently
expected. Evidently, Charleville is waxing jeal-
ous of the reputation of Winton, where the Rev.
Hulton Sains (Anglican) has won much fame as a
clerical athlete and sacerdotal bruiser.
“The Prodigal ” : “ Magee” says'that the
Queensland curse of “ the yellow cook” is on the
wane. I assert that the yellow streak is rather on
the increase in some Western Queensland towns.
“All Labor pubs in Charleville employ white
cooks,” writes “Gidgee.” If this is true, then
Charleville is an exception ; for plenty hotels in
Western Queensland which pin their faith to the
red flag of Socialism employ the flat-footed Mon-
golian. Who is to blame? Undoubtedly Labor
people, who, as “Gidgee” rightly contends,
harass Chinese cooks, yet deal left, right and
centre off every Chinese or Hindu storekeeper or
baker that undersells the decent white man and
his “ white ” labor. Labor wants “ white ’’ Aus-
tralia ; but in some places it works steadily to
plant tjje yfeTlow streak, which at the present time
seems to be Queensland’s greatest national menace.
Ballade of Wowsers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN skies are glum and clouds are low,
When throats are dry and beer’s taboo,
When panting souls in thirsty row
Heave curses on the Righteous crew.
When Virtue spies on all we do,
And cocks an ear for all we say
’Tis then we feel the dictum true—
The Wowser wowseth ov’rv day.
Why will he wowse for ever so
And poison all the joy we brew ?
Why hurl his grim, forbidding “ No ! ”
At all who cross his narrow view ?
For, be the fashion old or new
That cannot fit his straightened way,
He brands it with a label blue —
The Wowser wowseth ev’ry day !
O Lovers young—why will ye glow
And flush and flirt and flutter too?
Why, Cupid, dost thou bend the bow
And drive the butterflies to woo?
Why wears the sky a cheerful hue
When solemn asses sadly bray,
And gaze on all the world askew ?
The Wowser wowseth ev’ry day !
Envoi.
O lucky beasts in yonder Zoo,
Ye gambol gently in your play ;
It matters not to such as you
That Wowsers wowse on ev’ry day !
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 28, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah.—
The week has been passed in a hail of orange
blossoms. Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Menzies had
quite a nice little wedding on Wednesday, when,
in dark old St. Stephen’s, the lady finally pro-
mised to do what she was told in dainty satin and
lace, a small and select party looking on. Miss
Aileen the Pioneer Club sec., and Mr.
J. McDaniell assisted in the knot-tying. Another
happening of the same sort took place the follow-
ing day at the Hamilton, where Dr. Simmers and
Miss Julius took each other into partnership.
The lady was a study in crepe-de-chine and the
regulation wreath and veil. And she might have
sat for a study of Courage, too ; for in the teeth
of a howling gale the recklessly happy couple took
ship for the bay, and so far they don’t appear to
have been wrecked.
There is a spice of Gilbertian humor about the
methods of our tramway folk. Last week a gentle-
man let down a window with more haste than
seemed justifiable, and a moment later was
banded a blue ticket on which was printed a
request for the more gentle treatment of the com-
pany’s property. That was all very well, but an
old lady who tumbled off, as the car swung round
a sharp curve, and was much gravel-rashed, felt
naturally aggrieved when presented with a similar
ticket, requesting her to alight carefully and not
scratch the varnish.
The speculation over the retirement of the
members of the Land Court has reached an acute
stage, and everyone is asking someone else when
things are going to happen. The gentle Digby
Denham is away, but rumor says that he will take
up the burden of office once more on Monday,
after which the bomb should explode. My own
idea is that each side is waiting for the other to
light the fuse, and both have come out without
any matches.
Meanwhile, Kidston has returned from the
south, full of vigor, to fall upon the iniquities of
the proposed amendments of the Constitution,
and between him and Senator Chataway there
won’t be a local stump that hasn’t supported a
perspiring orator in the course of the next few
weeks. Meanwhile, many thinking men are —
well, thinking; and the constantly increasing
amount spent upon State government is coming
to be regarded as extravagance. Most of them in
their own particular business govern from one
centre, and they are beginning to wonder whether,
even if Mr. Kidstondid get hismanagerialauthority
shorn, the State mightn’t go ahead just the same.
Rain is falling in lumps, wool is not by any means
cheap, the problem of landing chilled beef on the
London market seems to have been solved, and
there is no likelihood of bankruptcy yet a while.
As for the she-voters, their trouble is dire; for,
with husbands preaching economy in the home,
and Mr. Kidston advocating extravagance abroad,
they are like sheep that have gone hopelessly
astray.
The wet season is not conducive to gaiety, and,
bar the eternal bridge, nothing of social moment
happens these days. It was a “ready for the
wet ” crowd that viewed the races on Saturday,
with not a gown among them worth writing home
about.
Lena Hammond has been selected to sing with
the Sydney Or chestral Society at the final appear-
ance of Mary Conlv on February 23, when
Andrew Black will also lift up his voice in a good
cause. The lady Hammond is locally grown and
locally taught, save for a final brush-up by
Stephanie, and she is one of the most conscien-
tious workers in this city. Incidentally, she
polished the Barker voice which carried off the
honors of the last Eisteddfod by your harbor side.
The lady’s engagement has made the musical end
of this town jubilant.
I am no Wowser, Thargomindah, but the spec-
tacle of a girl under the age of 14, the plain-
tiff in an unsavory case, owning a reputa-
tion which precluded the Judge from inflicting
the maximum penalty upon the Chinese defend-
ant, seems to me a little over the odds ; and the
whole business should hasten the formation of a
children’s council on the lines of the one in Ade-
laide. Else what sort of White Australia are we
going to have in, say, 20 years ? The Albert-street
Chinaman is a fearsome thing. Quite recently
there was a proposal to change the name of the
thoroughfare to King-street. Why not try
changing the personnel of its inhabitants ?
Great was the gathering of All Saints’ parish-
ioners last Tuesday, when the mile-long petition
was handed over to His Grace Donaldson, begging
for the clerical life of the popular rector, Douglas
Price. At the close of the lengthy pow-wow, and
after much dirty linen had been hung out and
considerable home truths let loose, the pro-
nouncement of “St. Clare Brisbane” was to
the effect that he would have none of them, and
the town must be rid of the turbulent priest.
There are ways and ways of doing things ; some
land the doer with a largely-increased tale of
enemies, and the other with a smoother passage,
bv reason of judicious oil thrown upon the waters.
The Archbishop was evidently out of oil, and lost
a very splendid opportunity of having his own
way and yet disarming the foe. So All Saints'
will soon be vacant, and Brisbane’s finest congre-
gation of male folk scattered.
There are many varieties of heroism, and the
action of the two firemen from the Waipara who,
when their fuddled mate was drowning, dived to
his rescue, although equally unfit for active ser-
vice, must be chronicled as one of those quick-
thought impulses which, in the midst of a tight,
lead to D.S.O.’s and mention in dispatches. The
three men were going aboard, and, although close
to the ship, it was not possible to rescue any of
them ; so heroes and victim will be laid side by
s de at Toowong.
The Max Maxwell people folded their tents
and silently stole away on Wednesday, taking
with them no inconsiderable amount of local
filthy lucre. These months of management have
told upon Max, whose fresh, boyish face has
grown lean and anxious in the turmoil. A re-
covered Beatrice Holloway will join the co. this
week.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
A chance at Mount Morgan
WANTED, at once, Girl, as Bookkeeper, also to
assist with the washing-; washerwoman kept;
good wages, Applj r Japanese Laundry.
When Nippon comes—provided Australia doesn’t
wake up meantime—The Bulletin will probably
be printing advts. like this
"WANTED, a Manager for the Bank of N. S. Wales.
VV one who can cook preferred. Preference given
to a man who can mend the office mat. Apply
Japanese Headquarters.
Premier Kidston is said to be going to the
Cold Country to float a big loan. In July, 1903,
the same politician said in the Assembly
I am quite convinced that if, at least in the immediate
future, any Queensland Government resort to any large
borrowings , they will do it deliberately, knowing they
have no intention of repaying it.
A ten-million loan comes fairly within the cate-
gory of “large borrowings.” Has the Kid-Philp
no “ intention of repaying it ? ” Cohen and Co.
might be interested in a pronouncement on the
subject.
“ Ragus Enac ” : The man who hangs on to
the top end of Bananaland is mostly a casual cuss.
At a sugar city on the Johnstone River, the local
chemist and stationer, whose premises were too
far from the business centre, decided to close in.
So he secured an allotment, and let a contract for
the removal of liis shop to its new site,
some eight or ten chains distant. The usual
thing is to empty the building, then raise
it off its stumps, run a trolley or jinker be-
neath, lower the building, and get away. In this
case, however, the building was lowered on to
rollers with stock and owner both aboard, and
pinched forward a few yards per day by means of
crowbars and levers. The job wasn’t hurried.
The shop kept open just as usual, and trade
seemed brisk en route.


■
a
THE DICTIONARY OF THE NEW AGE
Webster’s New International.
This is the latest and the greatest of the famous Webster series. Knowledge crystallizes in
words, and in this new Dictionary, dated 1910, the knowledge of the human race —its
history and accomplishments, from the beginning to the year 1910 —are epitomized. To
the seeker after knowledge it is the one indispensable volume of the English-speaking people.
The literary student will find in it a guide of rare value. The aid it is capable of lending to the
writer or speaker is incalculable. In self-education it is the chief educator. Its encyclopedic range
is enormous, in fact, universal. Its general information is complete. The New International is a
library in itself. It has been designed and remodelled to that end.
The enquirer will find the earliest use of older words in English literature, and likewise the
coinage of our own age in words like “Yes-No” and “ Smoke-oh,” the product of political and
industrial evolution in the Commonwealth. If a writer aims at being a purist this is his test. If
he wishes to astound and dazzle by the unexpected and unusual in phraseology, he may quarry in
this exhaustless mine for a lifetiine. In profusion of literary illustration and synonym the New
International is unsurpassed. The proudest student of English and the profoundest scholar will
be conducted to a sense of their own limitations by the inspection of any half-dozen pages of this
Dictionary.
It has 2742 pages, lit by 6000 illustrations, and containing more than 400,000 words and
phrases. Its predecessor, Ihe International, was described by Dr. Murray, Editor of the
famous Oxford Dictionary, as “ perhaps the best one volume dictionary in the language.” A decade
of editorial work and have been spent in turning the International into “The New
International,” which stands supreme as the only really modern Dictionary obtainable to-day.
If you want a Dictionary to educate yourself or your children, get The New International.
IT IS THE BEST.
SOME APPRECIATIONS,
Professor David : “I have examined the Dic-
tionary with regard to Australasian Geographical
details, which I find full and accurate.”
Professor M. W. MacCallum : “ I have
looked through the new edition of Webster’s
Dictionary, and compared it in several matters
with its predecessor. It more than maintains its
reputation.”
Professor Woodhouse : “Regarded merely as
apiece of book-making the Dictionary seems to
me a wonderful production. It is hard to believe
that in arrangement and in the art of saying as
much as possible in the least space, while pre-
serving the all-essential feature of clearness, any
advanceon thepresent work should Vie possible. As
a Dictionary it is completely satisfactory—it is
indeed rather an interesting Encyclopaedia. I
have spent some hours putting questions to it, and
have found a vast amount of information which I
should almost have thought unfair to demand of a
Dictionary.”
Professor Harper : “ I have looked up some
very unusual historical, philosophical and theo-
logical terms, and have found them all in this
dictionary.”
Professor Warren : “I have devoted a con-
siderable amount of time in the examination of
words in Webster’s New International Diction-
ary in so far as they refer to Engineering,
Architecture, Building Construction, Mechanical
Devices and Scientific terms. I consider that it
is exceptionally complete and explicit in every
respect. A special feature of this work appears
to me to be the ease and convenience with which
any matter may be consulted.”
Professor Fawsitt : “I have tried to put
myself in the position of a general reader who
comes across chemical names in the course of his
reading, and looks up Webster’s New'' Inter-
national Dictionary to discover their meaning.
He ’will have his difficulty removed in every
ordinary case. I have looked up a number of
such words and never found them absent.”
Professor Wilson : “The new edition of this
standard Dictionary appears fully to justify its
high reputation in the past.”
Professor Butler : “I agree with everybody
else that this is a most valuable work. I suppose
there is no other so useful for reference to workers
of all descriptions.”
Assistant-Professor E. R. Holme: “The
new edition of Webster’s. Dictionary increases the
usefulness of a work that has always been of
great general service to English-speaking people.”
Acting-Professor S. .T. Joiinston: “Web-
ster’s New International Dictionary should prove
very valuable to science students, and especially to
students of Biology. . . One of the first difficulties
that confronts the young biological student is an
immense array of new and strange terms mostly
derived from Greek words. To learn at once the
meaning of these terms should be the aim of every
student, and they are all to be found in this New
International Dictionary, with the roots given and
the meaning explained in a clear and lucid manner.
In looking up the name of practically any class or
order of plants or animals one finds a wonderfully
concise and good description of the chief character-
istics of the group and the names of most known
plants and animals seem to be there ; the list in-
cludes, too, even the terms and names that have
only come into use during the last decade.”
Rev. L. B. Radford: “Tested on various sub-
jects, and from various points of view, the Diction-
ary proves to give all that it ought, and more than
it could be expected to give. It is a marvel
I of selection and compression... I have tried the
i New Dictionary at various points, and found it
I more than satisfactory. In the case of words
i connected with subjects of my own special studies,
| I have found a marvel of condensation, wide in
range and accurate in detail. In othpr cases
where I have gone to its pages to learn, I have
found just the things that I wanted to know.
Cuneiform inscriptions, modern philosophical
schools, fifth-century theology, trigometrical for-
mulas, English county dialects —these are but a
few of the things which scarcely come within the
expected range of a dictionary, but are com-
pressed here into useful limits for the purpose of
giving the necessary background to a single
word. It is an encyclopaedia in brief.”
Ronald C. Macintyre, M.A. : “Exceptionally
complete, appears to give every legitimate use of
a word, even in the most technical sense. lam
thoroughly satisfied with the completeness, accu-
racy and unusual range of this Dictionary.”
P. Board, Director of Education, N.S.W. :
“ The new edition appears to be as comprehensive
and well arranged a work of reference as a dic-
tionary can be.”
Frank Tate, Director of Education, Mel-
bourne: “The New Dictionary is a great ad-
vance on the old so far as completeness is
concerned. I have subjected it to a number of
tests, and find it responds to them admirably. . . .
Now an excellent dictionary for the student and
the teacher.”
His Eminence Cardinal Moran: “Webster’s
New International Dictionary leaves nothing to
be desired. This excellent work has conferred an
inestimable boon on the reading public.”
Right Reverend Bishop Mules, Nelson, N.Z.:
“Since obtaining a copy of the latest edition of
Webster’s New International Dictionary I
have repeatedly appealed to it to discover either
the meaning or origin of some word rare or previ-
ously unknown to me, and not once have I
appealed in vain.”
Right Rev. Bishop Armstrong, Wangaratta,
Vic.: “I have carefully examined the new edi-
tion, and find it has been greatly enlarged, and
very thoroughly brought up to date. In these
respects, as well as in the fuller information sup-
plied, additional quotations introduced, and
better arrangement, it is a great improvement on
the older one. It is a book which, having once
possessed, I should be very sorry to lie without,
for it contains in a handy form the gist of a large
library.”
The Hon. Andrew Fisher, Prime Minister of
Australia : “ I note the special attention which
has been paid to Australian terms, and consider
this a step in the right direction, and one which
will be much appreciated. This feature and the
inclusion of the terms called into existence by
the progress of civilisation during recent years,
taken in conjunction with the comprehensive
character of this complete and up-to-date work,
make it of very great value to all classes and a
necessity in official and public life.”
J. C. Watson, ex-Prime Minister : “It is in-
deed a remarkable publication. The new edition
is more than a dictionary—it is an encyclopaedia,
embracing virtually every phase of human
activity. Its clear and concise references are
most helpful to every student, but particularly to
those whose time for study is limited. I have
found the earlier edition of great value, but the
new edition reaches high-water mark. The Aus-
tralian features are especially interesting, includ-
ing the most up-to-date information' available.
Altogether, the book deserves a place in every
home.”
W. M. Hughes, Attorney-General: “It is a
most excellent dictionary. Its scope is really
wonderful. A veritable library in itself; a book
to be recommended for the student, the journal-
ist, the business man and the citizen.”
Hon. L. E. Groom, M.P.: “I know of no pub-
lication of its kind more reliable. The additions
to the late edition greatly enhance its value and
add to its usefulness.”
Hon. Kiel Nielsen, Minister for Lands : “It
is a specially valuable work not only in regard to
thcgactual spelling and meaning of the words of our
language, but also as an encyclopaedia to which
one may refer for general information.”
G. H. Knibbs, Commonwealth Statistician :
“ The Dictionary is indispensable to any literary
scientific student or student of technology, and,
with the stand, is perfectly convenient. My own
copy is daily at hand for reference, and I do not
hesitate to say that nobody who possesses a copy
will ever regret the purchase —the fact being that
it is valuable for the artisan, the professional man,
the scientist and the litterateur.”
There are hosts of similarly eulogistic witnesses to the supreme excellence of Webster’
International Dictionary.
Write for specimen pages and full particulars to
E. J. FORBES, Sole Australasian Agent,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.


SKIN
PURITY
HU
I
uticur^
SOAP*
r e m
; v Vr<» «»»
It
Is Best Promoted by
CUTICURA
Soap and Ointment
The constant use of Cuti-
cura Soap, assisted when
necessary by Cuticura Oint-
ment, not only preserves,
purifies and beautifies the
skin, scalp, hair and hands
of infants, children and
adults, but tends to prevent
clogging of the pores, the
common cause of pimples,
blackheads, inflammation,
irritation, redness and rough-
ness, and other unsightly
and annoying conditions.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10,
Rue de la Chaussee d'Antin; Australia, R. Towns &
Co., Sydney. India. B. K. Paul, Calcutta; China,
Hong Kong Drug Co.; Japan, Z. P. Maruya, Ltd.,
Toklo; So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd . Cape Town, etc.;
U.S.A.. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.,
133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
uarPost-free, 32-page Cuticura Book, an Author-
ity on the Care and Treatment of Skin and Hair.
ANTINEURASTHIN.
Dr. Hartmann’s Nerve and Brain Food.
ANTINEURASTHIN contains neither drug nor chemical,
but builds up the nervous system by administering
the natural food element of the brain and nerves —
Lecithin —in an active organic state.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the only means known to Science
of doing this.
ANTINEURASTHIN —There no secret about it—to
every purchaser an analysis, endorsed by one of
London’s most famous Analysts, is given.
ANTINEURASTHIN feeds the brain and nerves, thereby
giving permanent good results, and not the temporary
deadening or stimulation obtained from drugs, etc.
ANTINEURASTHIN means Mental Energy—a power of
application to work, and of concentration of mind —
improved digestion, sound, healthy sleep, and
general good health.
ANTINEURASTHIN has received the endorsement of
some of the world’s most famous physicians, and has
proved itself in the Hospitals of Europe.
ANTINEURASTHIN is prepared i n tablet form—pleasant
to the taste, and conveniently carried when travelling.
Write for Sample and Treatise, enclosing 9d. in stamps,
to the wholesale distributor for Australia and New
Zealand—H. A. GODDAItD, Eagle Street, Brisbane, Q.;
and H. A. GODDARD, 184 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt
Street, Sydney.
STOP
SMOKING!'
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to tempt death by Heart Disease,
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET— “The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney. [i
OH ! Only a Cold !
But why have it when you can throw it off so
easily? Don’t waste time with various nos-
trums. Help Nature to expel the poison from
your system by a trial of the ideal aperient,
LAXATINE,
the Lozenge Laxative.
Pleasantly flavored. Perfect in action. You’ll
feel the benefit immediately. No griping
effect. Creates new life.
1/- per box. All Chemists. [2
Helping Nature
in Nature’s Way.
“ All things which are done according to Nature
are to be accounted for good.”— Cicero.
Constipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion, depression,
feverishness, loss of appetite, headache, and kindred com-
plaints, whether in the robust man or the delicate child, can only
be overcome by the gentle means which are akin to Nature.
California Syrup of Figs fulfils
every requirement that can be
demanded of a corrective
remedy, being not only perfectly
natural in its action, but prompt
and pleasant as well.
California Syrup of
Figs cleanses the
system of all im-
purities, and leaves
the liver, stomach,
bowels and kid-
neys corrected,
strengthened, and permanently
benefited. The genuine Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs is an
ethical product which has met
with the approval of the most
eminent physicians and given
universal satisfaction. It is
the first and best of family
laxatives, and may be given
with perfect confidence in
every case where the symp-
toms indicate a constipated
condition.
I
Of
I
c
MM***
You must ask for
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP of FIGS
“ Nature’s Pleasant Laxative.’*
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
G. & G. 3002
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on
Face-plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all Fiitt-Class Drjpers and
Storeke. peri.
COUCHS
For Coughs of
all kinds Freeman’s
—the Originah-Chlorodyne brings quick and sure relief. It stops
" the trying night cough, enabling the sufferer to secure restful sleep.
In cases of Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma, and other Chest complaints
FREEMAN’S effects the most gratifying results. 1 i£,/9&4/6 per bottle.
, Used by Doctors all over the World. Refuse imitations, which .
cannot possibly possess the wonderful, healing powers of Freeman’s.
If your chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle,
he can quickly
Ret it
TRADE
MARK
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
Blood Burnt by Tobacco
Teeth., Eyes, Nerves and Brain
Destroyed by Smoking!
German physicians declare in that deaths
amongst Germans between eighteen and
thirty-five years of age, one half die from
nicotine or tobacco poison. They unani-
mously declare that “ Tobacco turns out
the blood, teeth, eyes and brain."
Other great doctors declare nicotine to
be the poison of both heart and brain,
producing pap.ax.vsiS, apoplexy and
heart disease. Dr. Drysdale says
‘ ‘Nicotine enters the body by the lungs,
ruin of the nerves is complete.”
Men and youths who are slaves to
tobacco, wrecked in nerves and health
through continuous smoking, should take
“ Smokdre ” Tablets. They contain the
vital antidote for the poison, creating
nerve power, heart and brain strength.
For free particulars send stamps to
THE NICOTO-MANIA TABLET CO.,
75 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth St., Sydney
Zaw Points
&r Inventors
Caiv I Obtain a Pateivt ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to ine describing your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the. necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALUNAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street,
“The Waybacks Again.
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
WHY SUFFER FROM ASTHMA?
ASTHMATITE, the Great Asthma
Remedy, will immediately ease all the
distressing symptoms, stop the choking, dis-
perse the phlegm, build up the system and
ensure sweet sleep. 2/- and 4/- post free. Trial
packet posted for three penny stamps.
H. YOUNOMAN, Wilmott Street, Sydney.
■
‘THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”-
Schebler Carburetor
The..
Famous
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES— either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to-get nioreIIORSL-
POWER from your Engine or a GKEAIt.K
NUMBER OP MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Eree. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
mHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
Jl HAND, the National Monthly, ftice od.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (exceotof a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufliciently stamped . Name and
address must ay near on MSS. No liability is un ler-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in ; and no IfS. will oe
returned unless stamps (01 any estate) accompany .
Bellerive: Brown’s harrowing experience in
London herewith : .
A HAUNTED HOUSE IN LONDON.
A peculiar noise is often made
By the gnawing of a rat or mouse,
But uncanny is the mysterious sounds
Which issue in an haunted House.
To dodge the sleet one wintry night,
Resumed my old friend, Mister Brown,
I gained access to an empty house
When an outcast in London Town ;
After midnight the din commenced,
The doors hanged to and fro,
Followed by an unearthly shriek
And bloodcurdling groans of Woe ;
I beheld a ghostly form appear
And vanish through a window pane ;
Letting forth a cry of terror I fled
Out into the cbld and rain.
. E.F.L. : We regard 30 scrawly verses in faint
pencil merely as an outrageous attempt to damn our
eyes Tyrol: Unsuitable A.F.M.It. : Long, noble
poem. Its chief faults are that it is too long and too
noble W.W. (M.L.): You mean well, but such lines as
the following mar a serious effort:
Why should you with candle i g it
Take upstairs your eyes of b.ue?
M.W. : If Love is dead and you want to advertise the
fact, the morning paper will gladly publish an announce-
ment at 3s. cash each insertion. We understand that
poetry is charged 6d. a line extra, and that the notice must
be endorsed Dy some responsible person... Terawiti:
Don’t think you have the subject properly focussed
Oomus: Too much headache....M.K. (V.): Verses un-
suitable.. ..Kiem : Too labored.. ..C.S. (S.A.): Your pen
arm is weak... .Boyd C. : Below par... .Aurum : Not
sufficient 5ki11....J. Rudd: Too slight....F.K. (V.):
There seems to be no reason why it should not be burnt.
.. .. Jas. L. (Sydney): The patriotic poem has a heavy list
towards the basket ...Lavender: This line from your
poem about Footscray, where ttie noxious trades abide,
would draw tears from the eyes of any landlord :
The rents are low where the smells are high.
W.R. W. : Unsuitable Thomas M. : No Wattle :
A dreary' consignment. You can’t make “ measure ”
rhyme with “endeavour.” It couldn’t be done with a
pair of handcuffs and an axe....G. McD. : One verse of
“The Empire’s Call ” for the benefit of Rhodes scholars:
That bright star that in the sceptre set
Is Cecil Rhodes that sparkles with the best.
With the last pump of his heart so true
Said so little done so much to do ;
The Empire he meant. He loved it true ;
With his mind and wealth he showed it too.
Acolyte : You will please burn that unsigned poem at
the altar and ask the sacristan to stun you with f he brass
collection plate... .Mevo : The same old beautifully un-
natural deathbed story, all complete with the dreadful
prig who weeps, the clean, polite, tearful child, and the
forgiving, tearful woman, who expires gracefully at the
right moment. It has been raining for days on end, and
our goloshes squelch a pneumonic dirge as we go to aud
from our work on sodden trams and ferries; conse-
quently, we can’t bear to look at anything with a lot of
moisture in it... .McGinty’: Cemetery' poem interred....
F.T.M.Y. : No, not “wattle, wattle all the way 1" It’s
“libels, libels all the way!” Malam : Commonplace
verse.... Arthur G. : It helped to fill the basket. ..Out-
law : Shot dead. Where did you get that ghostly green
ink? It looks as if it had been left out in the rain
Char: Herewith the opening lines of your illuminated
address:
Australia, wouklst thou be
True Land of Promise?
Well, it is, isn’t it? Anyway, it has given its I O U’s for
£'2(10,000,000 J.L.: Two compartments of the locker :
DAVY JONES'S LOCKER.
The moon shone bright. The sea was calm,
The vessel onward sped.
No timely cry. No loud alarm
Reveals the rocky bed.
She strikes, with shivering, quivering shock,
Upon a sunken, unknown rock.
Oh, Heavens 1 they cry. We sink 1 We sink
To Davy Jones’s locker.
Dark was the night, by tempest torn.
The seas ran mountains high.
In seething foam, the seas are borne
Like demons dashing by.
A mountain sea engulfs the bark,
She founders, sinks, then all is dark.
With all her crew she sinks. She sinks
To Davy' Jones's locker.
J.P.B.: Regret unable to use them... .Joe B.: Manly
boat girl uninteresting female. School sketch contains a
variation of the chestnut we loathe most—the “ Johnny
ain’t no vi’lets ” atrocity... .Echuca : Futile attempt to
be really wicked. ..No. i 9 : All too rough... Doris M.: The
office carpenter, who does the odd jobs and repairs the
verses, is now looking at the poem wii h a speculative eye...
R.B. : “ School ” is a pretty rhyme, but rather out of our
line.. ..O.W. : “Last Straw” can’t compare with previ-
ous rhyunes... .K.D. : Neither suitable. These lines
from “ Celia” are fairly rough on the male animal that
pays the rent :
There may be sweeter forms entwined
In Man’s contaminating arms.
Why be so abject? In the next verse y r ou turn round and
remark bitterly:
But know full well the fairest fruit
Is base and worthless at the core.
That reminds us of the legend we noticed recently
beneath a novelette artist’s conception of a beautiful but
designing woman. “Fair without, but foul within” was
what she had to bear up against F.L.E.: We guess
n0t....1nk: Have no idea J.D.G.: No ; Thursday in
both cities E. M. Canberra: Only advice we can give
you is to try... .Cugnac : Cut out pars., mark with date
and page, and send to Accountant, B. office....
McGinty : The man who jambs bis typewritten lines so
closely together that a microbe couldn’t push between
them, much less a stout sub-editor, knocks about 25 per
cent: off his chance of seeing print. ...W.W.R.: “ Bonnet ”
is slain partially dead by the fifth verse, in which the
rhymes gave out badly Beech: You’ve butted into
worn-out arguments.... Stan : Sorry’, but we can’t let
this living-white agitation be side-tracked into a
row between you and “Bromide.” He said you
talked through your hat; you say he does. Now,
being square, bog into the real business.. Hermit:
Those impure-food prosecutions are not reckoned
among the “ serious offences” ; and Tub B. insisted that,
if anything is “serious,” the murder of Australian
infants is. That’s the whole point, and you missed it.
Have you noticed Mount Lofty yet? Worker : Either
the A.M.P. or the Citizens’ will issue a policy payable in
a fixed number of years, and you can also get an accident
policy Cowyarder: “Romance” has been fired, as a
thing abhorrent alike to the moral and the literary-
purist.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
T.H.S. : Old-age pensioners L.V.W. : Almost thou
persuades! us.
Mention was made the other day of the
fashion in which Victorian Treasurers collar so-
called “surplus” railway revenue, and thus
relieve the people who ought to be paying taxes,
while starving the lines. The same thing happens
in connection with the Harbor Trust. In 1909
the Treasurer annexed £51,612 of the revenue ;
last year he gathered in £64,000, and the grab has
been going on for years.. Every penny should
have been spent in bringing and keeping the port
up to date, and it could have been spent to advan-
tage. But it is much easier and pleasanter to
grab the “surplus,” relieve the big landlord of the
tax he should have been paying for years past,
and lean up against Cohen for odd jobs about the
harbor.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-FIFTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT of
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the
Mead Banking House, George Street, Sydney, on Friday, 20th January, 1911,
♦
THE Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of
the Bank on the 31st December, 1910, and present the following Report •
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and I
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying State note-tax, and providing for j
Australian Commonwealth land tax and State Government land and income taxes and bad and
doubtful debts, as well as granting to the Officers a bonus on their salaries,
amounts to ' £152,565 7 2
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:—
To Payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum ... ... ... ... .. ...£75,000 0 0
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund ... ... 4<».000 0 0
„ Balance being undivided Profit 37,565 7 2
£152,565 7 2
During the half-year Branches have been established at Bogan Gate and Botany in this State,
and at Sarina in the State of Queensland.
The Dividend, free of income tax, is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
Dr.
Cr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO 31st DECEMBER, BY CABLE.)
Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£1,500,000 0 0
.. 1,880,000 0 0
.. 1,500,000 0 0
£4,350,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up ..£1,500,000 0 0
£24,614,679 18 2
By Coin and bullion in
hand £5,381,969 10 9
~ Cash at Bankers .. 121,045 9 8
~ Australian Common-
wealth Notes (Legal
Tender) .. .. 260,268 0 0
~ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes.. .. 55,502 0 0
~ Money at short call
in London .. .. 1,270,135 0 0
~ British Consols and
Govern ment and
Municipal Securities 2,668,875 0 0
~ Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit .. 2,676,114 1 6
~ Notes and bills of
other banks.. ... 129,263 16 7
612,663,172 18 6
~ Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank 11,564,051 19 8
„ Bank premises, furniture, etc. .. 487,455 0 0
£24,614,679 18 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills .. .. .. £V,261 11 11
~ Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the
rate of 10 per cent, per annum .. 75,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 40,000 0 0
~ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year 37,565 7 2
£159,826 19 1
By Amount undivided from last half-year £34,610 14 4
Profit for half-vear ended December
31, 1910 125,216 4 9
£159,826 19 1
RESERVE FUND.
£1,420,000 0 0
1910 —December 31 .. .. .. .. .. . • •• •• £1,380,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account .. .. •• •• 40,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. BIBBS, General Manager.
W. R. SAYERS, Accountant.
Sydney, January 12, 1911.
I hereby certify that I have examined the hills, compared the balances and counted the coin in
the Head Office of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared
the returns of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing: Balance-Sheet.
F. W. HIXSON, Auditor.
T'he following resolutions were carried unanimously :
“ That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circu-
lated among the. Proprietors.”
“That the thanks of the Shareholders Vie presented to the Directors, General Manager, and
Officers of the Bank for their verv satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Mr. George Cohen, said : *
- It gives me great pleasure to be able, on the part of the Directors, to present the very satisfactory
Balance-Sheet that is before you to-day.
Trade during the past half-year has been good, and the marked expansion in our figures for that
period shows that we have had a fair share of new business, but as it is our usual practice to compare
our figures with those of the previous 12 months, I will ask you to bear with me for a few minutes
while I point out the progress that we have made during that time.
First, let me say that our total figures have been increased during the 12 months by a little over
three and a half millions. This is made up, on the debit side, by increases in the following items
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• £BO,OOO
Notes in circulation .. .. .. •• •• 36,000
Bills in circulation. .. •• •• •• •• •• 352,000
Deposits .. .. .. •• •• • • •• 3,060,000
Profit and Loss .. .. •• •• •• •• •• 5,000
On the credit side it will be seen that our position is one of exceptional strength. Our Liquid
Assets have increased by the sum of £3,032,000, in round figures, made up as follows :
By coin and cash at bankers .. .. .. .. . .» £1,406,000 .
~ Australian Commonwealth Notes .. .. .. .. .. 260,000
~ Bills receivable in London and remittances in transit .. .. 780,000
~ Notes and bills of other banks .. .. .. .. .. 61,000
This, as I have said, is a position of exceptional strength, and must, we think, be a source of
great satisfaction to our constituents, the liquid assets totalling a little over 58 per cent, of our
liabilities to the public.
Bills discounted and all debts due to the bank have increased by £483,000.
1 think that you will admit that these comparisons show very forcibly the progress of the bank
in all its departments, demonstrating the great strides this State has made, owing, principally, to
good seasons and the increased value of its products. In the short period of one year our figures have
increased one-seventh. Our Reserve Funds now stand at £1,456,000.
You will notice for the first time the item of £260,000 representing Australian Commonwealth
notes, for which we have paid gold, and you will also notice we have made provision for the payment
of the New-Federal Land Tax. Our own note circulation keeps high, and consequently we have not
yet benefited by the saving of the 2 per cent. Note Tax we still pay to the State,
Our practice has been to write down the valuation of our British Consols and other Government
securities as prices have fallen. This half-year we have made further provision for the Consols, and
they now stand in our books at 78. At this price they yield us £3 4s. Id. per cent, per annum.
The great confidence reposed in us by the public, as shown by our figures, has, we think, placed
upon us the responsibility of increasing the strength of the bank by continued additions to the
Reserve Funds. This we are now doing at the rate of £BO,OOO per annum.
I now move that the Report and Statement of Accounts be received and adopted, and that they
be ordered to be printed and circulated among the proprietors.
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereapfh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt nt'ent.ion.
Will Anprape «* BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking-:
(1) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book ok Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotcb, World’s Champion,
10d. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
jagr-4/VO ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
m
m
.
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fi Hirers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling' the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Flve Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tine Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any Sjtale will do.
wtalooues 201 Bourke St., Melbourne
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
W 1(1 nil 1 1 v> hWHIWH I
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised ease, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Q p -*
■ * 1 wvJ Mm
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDOR.FF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
The Man
Responsible
for the
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
Thomas A. Edison invented
the Phonograph, he has invented
every tangible improvement in
the Phonograph, and he is responsible for the excellence of
the Edison Phonograph, the Amberola and the Ambero!
Records to-day.
We do not ask anyone to buy the Edison Phonograph
and Edison Records on our mere statement. We merely ask
you not to buy until you have compared the Edison with
other instruments of the same type; Edison Records
with similar reproductions on other Records; the Amberola
with other de luxe sound-reproducing machines; and ou.r
Grand Opera with other Grand Opera Records. We have
no fear for the ultimate decision of anyone who will
make these comparisons.
There are Edison dealers everywhere. Go to the
nearest, and hear the Edison Phonograph play both
Edison Standard and Amberol Records. Get complete
lists from your dealer or from us.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
TRADE MARK
a£di


YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A
* SMOKE 1 IS TILL YOU’VE
TRIED MY CIGARS
r/;
//
MU'*
atw\.
I'M going to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australasia —and the most confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too.
Talk about joy! Why, to sit round a camp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching to your mates,
each pf you smoking one of my Cigars, joy isn’t
in it! It's just simply bliss!
As the yarns go round, the blue smoke
curling upwards in a fragranjt cloud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering on your
lips—l tell you, you’ll spend some of the
happiest hours of your life.
Letters are coining in. to
me in shoals from al} oyer
Australasia, praising up my
Cigars. Take one I’ve just
got as I write this, for in-
stance —it’s from a chap on a
cattle station up in Northern
Queensland. He writes: —
“Those DIADEMAS Cigars
ofyoursare just alright. I’ve
always smoked a pipe—but
no more. Not that I’ve given
up pipe-smoking altogether;
but when I want a real smoke
—something rich—l light up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment."
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
you may select.
' Send for 100 of any of
the followingi—'
Per 100
Imperials - - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - - 22/6
Gran Bouquets - 20/fe
Infantas - - 17/6
Levucas - - 15/6
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver promptly,
postage or carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoke 5 or 6 of them, and if they’re
not superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’ll return every penny of your money—no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked.
My Cigars are made from the very finest
mild, rich mellow Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
leaf. The Cigars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There sno “catch” about this offer-—it’s just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne. He’ll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you'll make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dark colors.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
A HUGE SUCCESS!
Custard
s
Bird’s
Custard mith Srutt
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Western Station
17,120 ACRES.
Auction in Sydney, Feb. 17.
RINGWOOD STATION, between Parkes and Condobolin, 17,120 acres of
wheat-growing and grazing land—every acre good—is to be offered at Auction
as a whole in the Royal Exchange, Sydney, on FEBRUARY 17 NEXT.
The property is to be offered as a certificated conditional purchase, the
improvement and residential conditions of which have all beer, fulfilled.
The amounts due to the Crovvn may be repaid at the rate of is. per
acre per year. Exceptionally Easy Terms. Fuller particulars later.
ARTHUR RICKARD § CO. LTD.,
848 PITT STREET. AUCTIONEERS AND REALTY SPECIALISTS.
In conjunction with Wm. Todd & Sons, Trundle.
142 S
I
7 x v
iArJ> i
a-w mm
hf.L 'vj®
'em
afiln
■■ •■■
m
GS
8
axi's
-■■•-■
:W '.■■
m
• ,
-
The “ Bijou” for Home Billiards.
The “ Bijou ” is an ideal table for home billiards, fitted with slate
bed and fast-running cushions, and covered in superfine billiard cloth
and beautifully finished. By a simple adjustment of leaves it is readily
converted into a fine dining-table. Easy terms arranged if desired.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St, Perth.
12
BEARD’S
British
Built..
BIOSCOPES
£37 lOs.
This is the ideal Bioscope for Show-
men —guaranteed in every particular
and British built throughout!
No flicker —simple as ABC to operate.
Let us send you all particulars
about them.
Send for our List of Second-
hand Films—-we stock every-
thing for the Bio-Showman!
JERDAN’S,
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney.
K
LOOK A MAN !
YOUR appearance counts for a lot both in business and social life. If
you look a mere boy you'll not command the respect of your fellows
—be a man and look the part. You can grow a strong, manly
moustache—one that will command respect; just apply CAPILLARINE
at night before retiring. No one can notice it’s being used —it does no
hurt to the tenderest skin, and almost from the first it sends a strong hair
growth sprouting out. Been in use for 30 years, and never failed yet.
10/0 a Jar, Posted Free to Any Part of the World.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, makes the
moustache grow shapely. 2/6 post free anywhere.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St*, Sydney,
Established
30 Years.
TCI NAUNTON MUSIC BOOK
full ol good tunes that anyone can play
on the Piano or Organ with BOTH HANDS at the very first
try without any knowledge
of music. No trouble, no
difficulty. There has not
been one failure. You begin
ligkt fiff playing Tunes.
. . Everybody delighted. Why
pay Guineas for lessons when this Large Book for 0/3
teaches you everything. No teacher needed. Obtainable only
(rom THE UNION CO. 29P Elizabeth Street. Melbourne
V
/Only 5/3)
we pay postal
CONSTANT
TENSION
Self-Sharpening Scissors
n
v.
AlwaysXut Well and Easily. Outlast Six Ordinary Scissors
Blade Sharpens the other as yea cut
Full Nickel-Plated. Magnetic Steel.
SEVEN
• INCHES
rrr~r —. long
r pr >« 2/6. or Two for 4/6. post free.
n _ Handy Illustrated Book »* Ladies* Fancy
Manual given with each order if you mention this
/ yj ie TTvirnM rr\ onn r-. . . A .. .:
Work
paper.
UNION CO.. CPP Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The Mend is the Strongest Spot in the Pot
Adamant Enamel-Ware Cement
Good for Every Sort of Ironware.
Stops a Leak in a Minute. Couldn’t be
Simpler - Just Mix Powder with Water.
Hardens like Iron. Fire-Proof, Water-
Proof. You can fill a Big Hole or a
Small Crack. Mended Place Stronger
than New. Anyone can do it; failure
impossible. Package Is. 6d.. enough to
stop Dozens of Leaks; Two Packages
for Half-a-Crown, posted anywhere.
THE UNION CO. 299 Elizabeth Street Melb.
Marvel Leather Stitcher
Complete 1/6,
Anyone can sole boots,
mend harness, sew leather,
rubber, canvas, &c., equal
to the best tradesmen.
FULL DIRECTIONS WITH EACH OUTFIT.
UNION MFG. GO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
The NEW CENTURY DARNER
2/6
CARRIAGE
PAID
ON ANY SEWING MACHINE
Our labor saving attachment
weaves a new heel or toe in
stocking in 3 minutes. Simple, Swift.
Send for 350 Pape Illustrated Catalogue, post free anywhere.
OHJOH «FG. CO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
The FAMILY TINKER
PATCHING PLATE
Mends a Leak in a Minute without Solder
or Soldering Iron.
Any child can repair POTS. PANS
KETTLES and all TINWARE.
With full Directions, 6d>
The Union Mfg. Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
LADIES, SEW NO MORE
MYSTIC MENDING TISSUE
Packet, Nine Pence,
Including Postage.
Mends Rips, Tears, Cuts and Wears in any
fabric, cloth, silk, leather, &c. Done in a
moment. Stronger, neater, better thun
sewing.
The Union Mfg. Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Beautiful Silk Pieces
for Patchwork
Extra Superfine Quality. Brilliant and Elabo-
rate Patterns. Lovely Contrasting Designs
and Colors. All Handsome Silk Remnants
from the Tie Factories, the finest that money
eanbuy. No common or plain stuff. Enough
for 36 x 20 Cushion Top. 35., Double Quantity
for ss. ; Enough for 72 x 80 Quilt, 17s. 6d.,
carriage paid, with three effective full-size
designs,'complete metallic shapes f*»r simpli-
fying catting and directions '1 M E UNION
COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Lightning Needle Threader
For Machine or Hand
Needles. Saves Time
and Trouble.
Ton can thread a needle with it in the dark and without
trimming the end of the cotton. Simple and easy, done in a
moment. Price SEYEN PENCE, posted anywhere, with full
printed directions, Two for ONE SHILLING.
THE ONION CO.. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
THE WONDERFUL RUBBER
COMPLEXION BEAUTY CUP
FOR MASSAGING THE FACE, NECK, &c.
Removes Pimples, Redness, Roughness,
Blackhead*, and all Skin Blemishes,
Wrinkles and Hollows. The only way for
a lady to massage herse f. Cleanses the
pores and makes the skin soft and velvety
and imparts the bloom of health. Price,
HALF-A-CROWN. wiih full directions and <
a Large Tube of Almond Blossom Beautv Cream, the Ideal
Skin Food. THE UNION MANUFACTURING <fc AGENCY
CO., 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
WRIf^LES!
/r
NOBODY r
§= WANTS TO JT*
> LOOK AT w>
W-R-i-N-K-L-E-S!
Lamina Wrinkle Remover
The Commonsense Way of Eradi-
cation. No pain, no trouble, no
risk, cannot fail The only
method of counteracting the
creasing effect of the movement
of the facial muscles. The ad-
hesive Lamina, applied at night,
frees the skin from wrinkles and
enables the flesh to recover its
proper form. Put up in cylinders
Half-a-Crown each, posted any-
where. THE UNION 0 0.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Meib.
f\l
A REALLY REFRESHING DRINK
Ginger Swig
Made in a Minute. Ready to t)rink at Once.
Strictly Temperance. Thirty Good Drinks for
NINE PENCE, or 100 Drinks for 2s. 6d., post
free to any address. Excellent for Children and
Grown-ups. Good, wholesome and decidedly
“ more-ish.” Have it Cold in Summer and Hot in
Winter ; it is splendid both ways. Try it and you
•will be delighted.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tie Former and Celluloid Collar
With Silks to. Form Two Handsome Ties
Cheap
Only 1/6
Only 1/6 the Lot v or with Silks for
Four Ties 2/- post free.
A Great Bargain Just what was wanted
Tie always keeps its shape, wears much )onge»
and never slips out of place. Excellent Celluloid
Collar, fashionable shape, any size, washed in *
moment with a sponge. State size when ordering
The Union Manufacturing Co.
2 99 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
USEE!
m
AT HOME
A USTEN’S Chart of Progressive Lessons enables anyone to
acquire a Good Business Style of Writing in One Month.
Failure is practically impossible No teacher required This
copyright method makes the most cramped writer a graceful
penman. Price Half-a-Crown, including postage. A handy
book entitled ‘‘The Art of Letter Wrir.iner” given with the
chart. THE UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
For Sale.
c
HEAP, Secondhand 15BreakH.
TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
P.
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFK ,
214 George Street, Sydney.


Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney.
Mllenburys Foods
Seasonable
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest nroductions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
*T
N3dVfl
• 3Hnasiav» •
NHOg^Jdioy^'j
m
'^S
m
M
wm
vik
riw v», wwaMar t
svinaau
**s>
w—>.'
nh<|(l
305
Triumph of
Modem Science
• Obtainable from all leading establishments
7 11 HE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
lic sixpence.
STEVENS
■ tf-J
New Visible Loading
Repeating Rifle No. 76.
The Most Accurate .22 Calibre Repeating Rifle Made.
Barrel rifled vvith slow twist, one turn in twenty-five inches. Weight 4* pounds. Handles fifteen 9‘>
short cartridges, which are always in sight while being fed into chamber. Extra double extractors
The No. 70 Rifle is also manufactured for .22 long- Rifle Cartridges.
The Stevens No. 70 Repeater is absolutely guaranteed, and bound to give universal satisfaction.
No. 70. Fitted with bead front and sporting rear sights.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [8
“ Montserrat
LIME JUICE
is a drink with an interesting flavour ; it is a pure
natural product—not a chem cal concoction.
Fresh ripe cultivated limes are alone used in
the manufacture of
"MONTSERRAT" LIME JUICE.
SUPPLIED IN TWO FORMS—
Unsweetened, i,e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened, i.t., Lime Juice Cordial.
9 9
J*-
c
vMp'
ter
mm
t,Mm
■ 1 I ajme> v
JL IIRT/i
®iw
wip£2£&&m
m
\ —
/f/TI
a-£=~nrß%;
YOU CAN
The Long and Short
Pack of Cards.
The company select any
number of cards, shuffle
pack and return to per-
former, who holds them
behind him and produces
every one chosen. Un-
equalled effect. Simple to
perform. 1/6 Post Free.
always amuse you*
friends if able to per-
form some good
tricks* It is easy to
be a wizard by read-
ing our Free Book
of Instructions. Call
or write for it. It
illustrates all kinds of
Wonderful
Am u sing
Tricks, Novel-
ties and Sur-
prises.
GET OUR
CATALOGUE
(Post Free).
“PICKITOUT.”
The new Three-Card Trick.
The performer can always
spot the ace; yet the same
card, if pointed to by one of
die audience, is always the
.vrong one.
7d. Post Free.
Own a Moving=Picture Show.
THE “LUDOSCOPE”
is a Moving Picture Show,.simple,
safe and satisfactory. Most fas-
cinating and amusing to children
and even adults. Splendid
novelty. Enables everybody to
enjoy Picture-Show delights in their
own home. a
With Six Picture Discs, 2/6
Post Free.
Extra Discs, 1/3 Dozen Post Fror.
m
WHlik
FOR 1
MollPl(fUßES<
fa.
m
9*
K
tr liras?/
fcVWWVW
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
Also at 111 KING STREET
&25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
Macmillan’s
SHILLING Library
Globe Bvo. 1/- net per volume.
New Voh. Just Published
LEAVES FROM THE NOTEBOOKS OF
LADY DOROTHY NEVILL. Edited
by Ralph Nevill.
H.M.I. Some Passages in the Life of
one of H.M. Inspectors of Schools.
By E. M. Sneyd-Kynnersley.
TALES OF OLD JAPAN. By A. B.
Freeman-Mitford (Lord Redes-
dale). Illustrated.
AT LAST: A Christmas in the West
Indies. By Charles Kingsley.
Illustrated.
THE RELIEF OF CHITRAL. By Colonel
G. J. Younghusband and Sir
Francis Younghusband. Illus-
trated.
BARRACKS. BIVOUACS AND BATTLES.
By Archibald Forbes.
REMINISCENCES OF THE GREAT
MUTINY. Including the Relief, Siege
and Capture of Lucknow, and the Cam-
paigns in Rohilcund and Oude. By
William Forbes-Mitchell.
CAWNPORE. By ths Right Hon. Sir
G. O. Trevelyan, Bart.
NORTH ITALIAN FOLK. Sketches of
Town and Country Life. By Mrs.
Comyns Carr. Illustrated by
Randolph Caldecott.
ALCOHOL AND THE HUMAN BODY.
An Introduction to the Study of the
Subject and a Contribution to National
Health. By Sir Victor Horsley,
F.R.S., and Mary D. Sturge, M.D.
With a Chapter by Arthur News-
holme, M.D.
Previously Published.
By Rhoda Broughton—
Red as a Rose is She.
Not Wisely but Too Well.
By Mrs. Craik—
Agatha’s Husband.
Olive.
The Head of the Family.
The Ogilvies.
By Charles Kingsley—
Westward Ho!
Yeast.
Hypatia.
Two Years Ago.
Alton Locke.
Hereward the Wake.
The Water-Babies.
The Heroes; or Greek Fairy
Tales for my Children.
By Mrs Alexander—
Her Dearest Foe..
Look before you Leap.
By Mrs. J. H. Riddell—
George Geith of Fen Court.
Berna Boyle.
Susan Drummond.
By Mary Linskill—
Cleveden.
In Exchange for a Soul.
By Sir J. R. Seeley—•
Ecce Homo.
By Dean Farrar —
Seekers after God.
By Charlotte M. Yonge—
The Heir of Redclyffe.
Dynevor Terrace.
Heartsease.
The Daisy Chain.
Hopes and Fears.
The Trial.
The Young Stepmother.
The Clever Woman of the Family.
The Dove in the Eagle’s Nest.
The Little Duke.
The Prince and the Page.
The Lances of Lynwood.
Countess Kate and the Stokes-
ley Secret.
Macmillan 8 Co. L‘t
LONDON.


TRODT TACKLE!
We are the LARGEST and LEADING Wholesale
and Retail Distributors of Fishing
Tackle in Australia «n
We have Just Opened up a Mag-.ificeivt Ran*e ot New Season's Trout Tackle. We can supply you Cheaper and Better than any other House. Cive us a Trial and be Convinced.
No. 2.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lift, and 121 t., 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, best fittings, lock joints, etc., £4/4/-
THE M.S. SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, best fittings, £2.
No. 4.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, best winch fittings and snake rings, bronze mountings, 25/-.
No. B.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, snake rings, welted ferrules, solid fittings, 22/6.
No. 9. —SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 10}ft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, finely finished rod, 30/-.
No. 10S. —SHORT-JOINTED SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, 10|ft.,
6 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, solid reel plate, double-brazed welted
ferrules, 21/-.
No. 18.—QREENHEART TROUT RODS, 12ft.. 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, lock joints, graduated winch fittings, 25/-.
THE M S. GUINEA GREENHEART ROD, lOJft. and llif*r, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed winch fittings, snake lings, stained olive
green ; splendid value, 21/- ; other rods from 7/6 to £7/10.
M.S. PERFECTION TROUT REELS, with tension screws and con-
tracted drum; the best Trout Keel on the market; 3in., 25/-;
31in., 30/- each.
M.S. VENTILATED EBONITE BACK ROTARY CHECK REELS,
with wire drum for rapid winding; 2£in., 13/6; 2|in., 15/6; 3in.,
17/6 each ; other reels from 2/- each.
M.s. PERFECT COLLAPSIBLE TURNOVER TROUT NET, all of
the very best quality and highly finished, 17/6; other complete
Landing Nets from 3/6 each.
We are always pleased to receive Reports
from the various Trout Centres.
TROUT LINES.
We carry the finest assortment of Trout Lines to be found anywhere.
“ KINGFISHER ” PLAITED SILK LINDS.
Highly Waterproofed.
30yds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 7/6 No. 2, 8/6 No. 3, 10/-each.
40yds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 10/- No. 2, 10/6 No. 3, 12/- each.
SO yds., Double Tapered.. No. 2, 10/- No. 3, 11/6
40yds., Double Tapered.. No. 1, 11/6 No. 2, 12/6 No. 3, 13/6each.
42yds., Double Tapered.. No. 4, 22/6 No. 5, 25/- No. 6, 27/6 each.
“PERFECT” WATERPROOF PLAITED SILK LINES.
Splendid level lines, made exclusively for us.
No. 40 .. .. 25yds., 2/6 50yds., 5/-each.
No. 30 .. .. 25yds., 3/- 50yds., 6/-each.
M.S. WATERPROOF THREAD LINES.
Made from best Thread, and waterproofed by a new process.
No. 60 .. 50yds., 1/- No. 40 .. 50yds., 1/3 each.
No. I.—PALLEY’S CAST BOOKS, with parchment pockets, 4/- each.
No. 2.—JAPANNED ROUND CAST BOXES, 1/6 each.
No. S.—ALUMINIUM ROUND CAST BOXES, very light, 2/- each.
No. 3.—TAN CANVAS FLY BOOKS, sin., 2/6 each.
No. 6—BEST QUALITY PIGSKIN FLY BOOKS, with xylonite leaf
fitted with 119 Spring: Clips, 8/6 each.
Other Fly Books from l/= to 17/6 each.
No. 1. -BEST QUALITY JAPANNED EYED FLY BOXES, fitted
with Steel Spring: Clips, mounted to xylonite.
51 Clips,,4/6 ; 85 Clips, 5/6 ; 119 Clips, 7/- each.
No. 3.—LOCH LEVEN EYED FLY BOX, fitted with Steel Spring:
Clips, 2/- each.
SPINNING HEAD TROUT FLIES, 1/6 and 2/3 each.
ROUKE TROUT SPINNERS, 9d. each.
RINGED DEVONS, lin. and Ijin., 1/4 ; ljin. and l}in., 1/6 each.
BEST QUILL PHANTOMS, ljin., 2Jin., 2Jin„ 2/- each.
FISHING BROGUES, made of Good Quality Leather, with Canvas
Uppers, all sizes, 22/6 pair.
Trout Casts, Creels, Spinners’ Gaffs, Bagfs and sundries in endless
variety.
For a comprehensive description and illustrations of all goods, see
our “Australasian Fishing: Tackle Catalogue ’’—the finest book of its kind
ever published—a copy of which will be posted you immediately upon
request.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
“THE House That Sells the Best Tackle,”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
. *,
Each head of the Company a worker
in tite interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre et Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
Method of advertising, with the object of making our name more widely known, and to intro duce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS :
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C*R*S A.E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S*R*L*A.
Your answer must bo posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co., Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with oursolution, lodged in the BankofN.S.W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 2/6,
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your.solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
accept this reward for your services for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (BankN.S.W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 100 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct answers in the order in which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach uj before the closing date, and be correct according to our conditions, and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady's or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B.—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POST CARD CO.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:..
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE M ANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding.
Signed
Address
Date
What You Get^ ot What You '^COUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Btrtlt by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors—
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Black).
LUTETIAN”
CREAM.
For all kinds of Brown
Leather Boots and Shoes.
Has a world - wide reputation.
Made in light and dark colours.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated [l
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON ( B " lcl< M. g „:;. a c ”” t r . Po "‘ h ) LTD., LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908, edition, 2s 6d posted. Mekrie
England, 6d. How to Gist Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How tq Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thorston’s • Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., 1» 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook,' ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and IS 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the:
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French, Polishing-
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is-2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and.
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s-Human-Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By d£ E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, ahd wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, .Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post- How to-Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How TO
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s Od.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. - Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Tiie Doctor, cures
■for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handy book, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements op Social
Science, 3s Od. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s Gd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. (Bride ok the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. Tiie Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Iff - Established 25 Years,
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mil-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of tub King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Dovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cuevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budg g Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.'' G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Rugby Union Football Competition. Champions and Unbeaten, 1910.
Newtown Rugby Union Football Team.
ROYAL BLUE PENNANT FLIES HIGH.
The Rugby Union season ended in September, Newtown having gone through
unbeaten. They are accordingly unconqnered premiers, an honor which has not fallen
to any other club since the district system was introduced 10 years ago.
ft will therefore be interesting to the general public, as it was gratifying to the Pro-
prietors of Rexona, to read the following testimonial given unanimously by every member
of the team. The letter speaks for itself, and shows in what high esteem this premier
team holds the new Rapid Healer Rexona. They write as follows
The Manager, Rexona, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—The whole of our Football Team are so pleased with the
benefit we have derived from the use of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, that we
have unanimously decided to give you a testimonial regarding same. Wb
have used it for numerous purposes in our training and after our matches,
both as an embrocation and as a healer for the various cuts and sores
incidental to football. , ........
This has been a most successful year with us, and we certainly feel to a
considerable extent that we owe our success to the great benefit which we
have derived from the use of Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
A number of the boys have also used it for Chilblains, Sore Feet and
Chapped Hands, and in every instance have found it to be an excellent
remedy.
With best wishes for Rexona.
We are, very truly yours,
(Signed) ERNEST E. BOOTH,
Captain Newtown R.U. Football Team.
Also signed by the other members of the team.
Football players everywhere will find Rexona of the greatest use in the training room. It is
invaluable as a rub-down for strained and tired muscles, and will rapidly heal all the many cuts and
bruises acquired in the football field. If you have not already tried Rexona, send us your name and
address, and we will send by return post a sample pot gratis. „ „ . .
Rexona, the new Rapid Healer, is a reliable remedy for Bad Legs, Piles, Eczema, Erysipelas,
Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Prickly Heat, Ringworm,
Scrofulous Sores, Scabs on the Head, Boils,
Rashes, Blackheads, Pimples, Stings of Insects,
and all irritations and eruptions of the skin.
Rexona is sold everywhere in triangular pots
at 1/6, or in larger pots holding nearly four
times the quantity at 3/-, or will be sent post
free upon receipt of the price by the Laxo-Tonio
Pill Co., 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Q/XOTLGL
THE RAPID HEALER
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing 1 Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
H O L LOW AY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago* sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Written Out.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN his heart is growing bitter and his
hair is growing grey,
And he hears the debt-collector knock-
ing several times a day,
And the shrill voice of the Missus blame, reiter-
ate, accuse—•
Then the poet who was famous feels inclined to
damn the Muse.
When he’s trying to be cheerful, and the ancient
joy is dead,
And where themes for laughter found him comes
a brooding fit instead ;
When he tries for hours to think of something
good to write about,
Then the writer realises that he’s getting written
out.
When the Lost Love is forgotten that he sung of
when a boy,
And the Graves of Girls Departed bring no
longer tears of joy ;
Nor the battlefields of fancy, where his fights
were lost or won—
Then the singer realises that his singing days are
done
When the visage of the landlord—or the landlady,
maybe—
Can suggest not as aforetime sweetest flowers of
poesy,
When the presence of the bailiff’s man inspires
his pen no more—
Then he’s pretty well decided that his writing
days are o’er.
When he thought he was beginning and the end
seems come at last,
And his struggling for the future thrusts him
back into the past,
When there isn’t any Wonder and he hasn’t any
Doubt,
Then he wakes up some fine morning and he finds
he’s written out.
When he hears a sudden rapping—rapping at his
chamber door,
Then he knows it’s no good trying to write poems
any more ;
And he bursts from out his chamber and he grabs
his battered hat,
And he cadges Two Bob somewhere and gets
beered up on his pat.
Or he meets an old admirer—or a chum in bardic
ways
Who has other bobs and sorrows, and they drink
to other days,
Till the Years Between, the Present, and the
Future they forget,
And he feels convinced he hasn’t even started
writing yet.
But the morning !—Oh, the morning ! —And the
weary world is grey,
And his striving for To-morrow only brings him
Yesterday !
\nd if he had his life over, he would damn all
prose and rhyme.
'lc'd stick to trade or business and write pomes in
his spare time.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Shepherd Kings of
Canterbury.
THE HORROR AT MAGNOLIA GRANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE buying of Magnolia Grange by the
Monks was the event of the year. The
Lonsdales left in July, and almost imme-
diately a small army of carpenters and other
mechanics descended on the place, and kept pos-
session till well into November, when Magnolia,
glorified and improved, was ready for its new
owners.
Naturally, the event was celebrated by a tennis
tournament that lasted a week, and was inter-
spersed with hare drives, coursing, and pukaki
shooting in the swamps. It was a great time.
The whole Central Division was there, with its
wife ; and, as usual in Old Canterbury, it had a gay
and delirious time making love to the other fellow’s
wife, or, if he hadn’t a wife, to his sister or some
other female belonging. And, to give them their
rightful discredit, the female belongings liked it,
and seemed offended when they didn’t get it.
They were a bad lot.
Archibald Monk flattered himself he was a
religious man, and also that he was “ no fanatic.”
And he wasn’t. His wife taught in the Sunday-
school attached to the station on Sabbath morn-
ings, and invariably went gathering ferns in the
afternoon with a handsome cadet of about 24.
The family consisted of one boy, called after his
father. He was a quick, well-read, but curiously
reserved boy, who rarely mixed with the butterfly
crowd which thronged his mother’s home, and
spent his spare time wandering about through the
scrap of bush behind Magnolia Grange with a
book or carbine under his arm.
But, all the same, he was quite at home in
society when he found himself there. The men
hated him for knowing too much ; the women
feared him because they had a dark suspicion that
he spied on them for his own information ; and a
boy of 14 who spies for his own information in a
society like that of Old Canterbury is liable to be-
come a tyrant of the worst sort.
* * * *
The most sought-after woman at that tourna-
ment was Helen Leigh, of Rangihape Station, a
girl with the face of a Madonna, the figure of
Venus, and the witchery of a Cleopatra. A faint
aroma of naughtiness that hung about her name
gave zest to the pursuit, which became so open in
its intensity that several wool queens threatened
to go home immediately unless their husbands
found some means of permanently recollecting
they were already married. Mrs. Monk fumed”
but the Leighs were among the great ones of the
Province and must not be offended, and the
comedy went on.
As the days went by Horace Greville, heir of
The Wilderness, rapidly became more and more
oblivious of the fact that he had a wife; and the
fact seemed to have escaped the memory of Helen
Leigh also. Mrs. Horace Greville affected to take
no notice, and made things easier when she sud-
denly received word that her mother was not feel-
ing too well (as though anyone ever did), and de-
cided to run across to Three Springs to stay with
the sick lady a week or so.
Then the trouble commenced.
Horace Greville had a weak heart, and the most
important part of his luggage was the silver-
topped phial in which he carried his vitality pills.
Even as it was, m spite of liberal doses of the
stimulant, he used to get bad turns, during which
Helen Leigh nursed him tenderly, because the
poor dear man’s wife was away.
These vitality pills were bright red, and were
sent direct from the maker in packets of 400, or
something like that. The second week Horace
was at Magnolia Grange the supply began to run
low, and young Monk offered to ride across to The
Wilderness and get a fresh supply. Why young
Monk made the offer is a mystery.
On the other hand, old Colonel Neville Morti-
mer was suffering from insomnia. His brain was
so chockful of schemes for cutting Hori Grey’s
comb that the old warrior could not sleep with-
out the aid of soporifics. He couldn’t take
powders, which he declared got between his false
teeth, at the back of his throat, went down the
wrong way, and generally reached every part of
his anatomy but the right one. Capsules were
unknown in those days, and as the stuff tasted
like the Seven Deadly Virtues, he could not take
it in liquid form.
“Make it up into pills, damn you !” howled
the Colonel to the chemist who supplied Oternma
Station with “poison,” and the chemist did so.
As young Monk rode round to the front door to
say good-bye to his mother and get his carbine
he met the Colonel.
The Colonel barked :
“ Wough, wough ! Where the devil you off to,
wough, eh ?”
“Oh, I’m riding over to The Wilderness to get
some medicine for Mr. Greville. His heart’s
troubling him.”
“Hell! ” said the Colonel. “Reminds me I’ve
hardly a pill left. Wish you’d send a man from
The Wilderness to Oterama for a fresh lot for me,
and bring ’em back with you, wough ! ”
“I’ll fix it up somehow, sir. Be back to-
morrow night.” And then he trotted off.
“Damme, I like that boy —make a soldier of
him yet! ” grunted the Colonel, who was hard at
work trying to persuade the squatters to raise a
battery of artillery as well as a mounted force.
“The Colonel,” said Horace Greville, “is
quite mad on his military ideas. Wants to raise
a battery of artillery. Ho has no hope !”
“Not the slightest,” said Mr. Monk. “ I don’t
like that bo.y riding about the country by himself
—but he will not hear of a groom. Regards it as
namby-pamby ! ”
“So it is,” said Helen Leigh. “ I’m sure he’s
far better out shooting than listening to a lot of
women talking about the house.”
“I haven’t seen two women talking to one
another since I’ve been in the place. They don’t
get time.”^
Immediately after lunch Monk, junior, started
for Magnolia Grange. He carried the Colonel’s
sleeping pills in his right tunic pocket, and
Horace Greville’s heart tonic in his left. They
were both bright red, but the Colonel’s were in a
red cardboard box, and Greville’s were in a glass
phial with a silver top. The Greville boys rode
out a few miles with him, and having their car-
bines with then) they got shooting, for wagers,
and before they were aware it was late in the
afternoon.
“Good Lord !” said young Monk, looking at
his watch, “it’s nearly 3 o’clock, I say, I
must be getting along.” And ho started at a hand
gallop for where Magnolia Grange loomed up
against the background of blue hill and purple
bush.
Young Monk hated arriving late for meals, and
determined to reach the Grange in time for din-
ner, if hard riding would do it. The sun curved
down towards Mount Somers, and a false sunset
began to flare in the east. Monk left the road
and took a short cut across the tussocky plain,
which was covered with great clumps of
“Spaniards”—a species of long, narrow-leaved
aloe with a tremendous flowering stalk growing
about 20ft. high from the centre. They were
every where, in great clumps and single bunches,
and the spikes lacerated the legs of his horse and
made him plunge and rear. Suddenly the unfor-
tunate brute, just , about to jump into one,
propped. Monk shot over his head, and landed
right in the middle of a “Spaniard.” One long
thin spike passed through his nose pinning him
to the ground, and both sets of pills shot out of
his pockets and were spilled indiscriminately over
the moss.
Monk yelled loudly for help ; but on that seini-
boundless plain, thanks to the policy of his tribe,
there was no one but himself. After thinking
the matter over for a frenzied moment or two he
got out his knife, and cutting the spike off, arose
to his feet. The pain was horrible, but the boy
was full of grit. He gathered the scattered pills
up anyhow, and filled the Colonel’s cardboard box
first. What were left went into Horace Greville’s
silver-topped receptacle. Then he chased his
horse for half an hour and felt his nose swelling
perceptibly as he ran. Having at last caught the
animal, he gave him a hearty kick or two, and sat
down on a boulder to screw his courage up to
getting the spike out of his nose. First he tried
to wheedle it out, and stopped with a groan.
Then he ventured a gentle tug, and shifted it
about an eighth of an inch. He got out his
- knife again, and cut one side off close to
the flesh, then setting his teeth, he gave
a great tug. With something between a
yell and an oath, he sprang to his feet.
His horse struggled desperately to get away, and
Monk danced round frantically, holding his nose
in one baud and his horse’s bridle in the other.
When he recovered his self-control he mounted,
made back to the road, and went at full gallop
for Magnolia Grange, where he threw the whole
house into a state of consternation.
His mother screamed and sent for the doctor
post haste, and gave orders for 22 different things
to be done to the nose to keep down inflammation
till the doctor arrived. Monk, junior, threatened
to kick the innards out of anyone who tried
to lay a hand on him. He gave the Colonel
his cardboard packet, and banged Horace Gre-
ville’s silver-topped vase down in front of Helen
Leigh, who took charge of it. Then he went
off to the glass and examined his countenance
carefully.
When the doctor came he gave Monk, junior, a
bad time, probing the wound to make sure there
was no fragment of the spike left in it. Then he
syringed the gash liberally, and inserted some
antiseptic dressing with a probe, and made Monk,
junior, roar. Whereat Mrs. Monk wept, and
begged the doctor not to kill her only son, her one
ewe-lamb.
The doctor sniggered, and Mrs. Monk said he
was callous.
(Continued on next page.)


A
*
ODD jobs about the house or
garden, especially if they
entail the use of tools to which
he is not accustomed, often re=
suit in a crushed thumb or
some painful injury for
the head of the household.
His wife, too, is continu=
ally “ in the wars” while
doing the housework, and
scarcely a day passes without one of the
children getting hurt in one way and another.
Cuts, bruises, burns and scalds bring more
trouble than enough, as the housewife has it—
unless there’s a pot of Zam-Buk handy. If this
wise precaution has been taken, each member
of the family flies to Zam-Buk for the speedy
relief from smarting pain that this soothing
balm affords, and the hurt is soon forgotten.
Zam-Buk is the ideal healer for the home
because it is perfectly antiseptic, a reliable
germ-killer (preventing poisoning or festering),
and a natural skin-grower, besides being
wonderfully soothing. Keep a pot handy in
your home!
| Every Home Needs ZAM-BUK
For every kind of injury and disease to which the skin is
subject, Zam-Buk Is invaluable. Being- a perfect antiseptic,
Zam-Buk prevents any tendency to blood-poisoning, and its
soothing and healing virtues are universally known. Alt
Stores and Chemists stock Zam-Buk at Is. 6d. or 3s. 6d.
family size (containing nearly four times Is. 6d ).
in
Mr. E. H. S. Thomp-
son, Head Goods-shed
Porter at Wagga Wagga,
N.S.W., says: “During
my occupation I am con-
stantly knocking and
cutting my hands, and I
assure you Zam-Buk
comes in very handy. It
seems to act like magic
on cuts and bruises, and
quickly heals them up.
I recommend Zam-Buk
strongly, and no home
should be without it.”
RUB IT in f
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your sit in and
complexion* If* on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tl\e
face, and on tHe sKin generally— you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEAR
Matchless for the Complexion.
The doctor explained that it would take a lot
more than that to kill her one ewe-bull; that he
was hard as iron, and would make a first-class
man if she didn’t spoil him.
The mollified Mrs. Monk never noticed the
mixture of the metaphors.
At last night came down on the distracted
household. Monk, junior, went to bed, but not to
sleep—his nose wouldn’t let him ; and as he tossed
about he wondered if he had got the right pills
into the several packages.
About 1 a.m. he thought he heard a noise, and,
getting up, looked out of the window. The
Colonel was walking up and down outside, swear-
ing like a trooper. Sleep, be d—d ! Never felt
livelier in his life ; and he’d taken a double dose
of those infernal pills too—so he was explaining
to Mr. Monk.
“ Well, Colonel, I think I’ll leave you to it—
hanged if 1 can keep my blessed eyes open,” said
Mr. Monk.
“ Well, I think I’ll go and saddle up for a ride
—l’m as lively as a cricket—no good going to bed
while I’m like this,” barked the Colonel, striding
off towards the stable.
The night was hot, and young Monk opened
his bedroom door, letting a current of cool night
air blow through the room. At iast he grew
drowsy, but a sudden twinge in the middle of his
f me awakened him.
“Wish I’d one of the Colonel’s pills,” lie
thought, and turning over on his side he shut his
eyes, looked straight down his nose, and counted
me number of respirations he took, which was
his mother’s infallible remedy for sleeplessness.
Again he was just dozing off, when he was
awakened by a faint scream. He was out of bed
in a moment. The only people on that passage
were Miss Leigh, Horace Greville, the doctor and
himself.
He looked out into the passage, which was
flooded with moonlight from the great bay win-
dow at the end. All was absolutely silent. He
drew back and listened, and then he heard the
doctor’s door open, and saw the medico’s great
'red face, surmounted by a hideous nightcap, peep
out. The door was closed clumsily again.
He went back and sat on the side of the bed.
Evidently the doctor had heard that stifled scream
also—and it could have come only from Helen
Leigh’s room.
He tiptoed down to her door, and tapped
softly:
“Miss Leigh, Miss Leigh, are you all right?—l
thought I heard you call ! ”
A long sigh, and a sound as of someone turning
in the bed.
“I’m all right, Mr. Archibald —what’s the
matter ? ”
“There was a scream. I thought you might
h Ivh got a fright.”
“No—a!” A long pause. “Thank you very
much ! ”
“Must have been yelling in her sleep,” said
Monk, junior, as he went back to his own room,
where he sat down in the chair by the window
and looked out on the shadow-streaked lawns.
He must have sat there fully an hour, when he
heard a faint sound of trailing draperies. His
heart stood still. The noise stopped outside his
door, and he could hear the short, quick breathing
of a much-excited woman. Then he heard her
bare feet stealing away.
Down on his knees again he peered through the
keyhole down the moonlit passage. It was empty,
but even as he looked he saw Helen Leigh emerge
from her room, her long nightgown caught up
with the golden belt so much in vogue, displaying
her slender ankles and shapely feet. With des-
perate strength she tugged and strained at some-
thing within the room.
The youth felt himself grow cold, for as she
brought the something out into the moonlit
passage it was the figure of a man. Fortunately
the elephantine snores of the doctor drowned the
sound of her dragging burden. She held it by
the arms close to the shoulders, and tugged fran-
tically for a few feet, and then stopped ex-
hausted. Foot by foot she struggled down the
passage with the corpse till she reached Horace
Greville’s room, and then with a convulsive effort
she tumbled it inside, and fell in with it. The
minutes passed, but she did not reappear, and the
scared boy concluded that she had fainted and
was wondering whether he had better go down
and'offer assistance. The doctor’s awful snores
stopped with a sudden crash. At that instant
Miss Leigh emerged from the room, and, fleeing
on tiptoe, disappeared into her own apartment.
“That fellow’s died in her arms,” said Monk,
junior. “Here’s a pretty go. Wonder if he is
really dead. I’ll go and see—hanged if I don’t.”
Nerving himself up, he lit a candle and went
down to Horace Greville’s room. That young
man lay, apparently dead, on the bed. Monk
shook him. He gave no sign. He was cold. The
boy bounced down the passage and banged loudly
on the doctor’s door.
“Eh, what’s up —that damned ewe-bull worse?”
snarled the medico.
“Shut up, doctor, and come out quietly—
Horace Greville’s dead.”
The doctor came out quickly and without a
word.
“Which way?” he said.
Monk led him to the room. The doctor
stretched Greville out full length and set to work
to restore respiration, and Horace soon showed
signs of returning animation.
“Bally idiot’s been taking opium—can’t you
smell it?” said the doctor. “Run and get my
bag, Bull-lamb, and we’ll save him yet.”
After two hours’ hard work Horace was able to
speak.
“.lust fainted right off without-warning—how
did I get here?”
“Why, where were you when you fainted?”
asked the doctor, suspiciously.
“Over there by the dressing-table!” lied
Horace, magnificently.
“ The ewe-bull must have put you on the bed
although I’d never have given him credit for the
strength to do it. Anyhow, what did you take
opium for ? ”
“ Didn’t take opium—took strychnine and iron
pills ! ”
“ Where are they ? ”
“ In that phial there!” pointing to the recep-
tacle young Monk had brought from The Wilder-
ness.
The doctor adjusted his nightcap and scrunched
one between his teeth. Then he spat heartily
and went to look for young Monk.
“I say, Bulls-wool, did you mix those pills? I
hear the Colonel cursing round because he can
get no sleep, and this fellow, with a weak heart
and bad kidneys, nearly dies from an overdose of
sleeping medicine—opium and other stuffs.”
And the ewe-lamb owned up. The doctor
sniggered, and went back to bed.
Next morning there was a fresh complication. In
-addition to the sickness of Horace Greville, the
Colonel had developed a fighting tendency, and
Helen Leigh was discovered in her room, suffer-
ing from delirium. But she made a rapid recovery
when she learned that Horace Greville wasn’t
dead
C. A. JEFERIES.
Mary Savage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is a beautiful simplicity in the
Bush, and a childish wonder about things
that to the town dweller are mere matters
of the everyday. The Bush, moreover, has an
almost aboriginal reverence for all that is crudest
in Literature and Art.
The lives of many bush dwellers can be read at
a glance. Once I read the life of a bush girl I
had never seen, and never will see in my life on
the wall.
It was a hot, dusty day on the road. I had
pulled up at a wayside pub, in Central Queens-
land, for a drink.
I sat in a side room while a stout woman, whose
body seemed to have overgrown her apron strings,
went down into the hole under the bar to look
for bottled beer that wasn’t there.
I looked round the room. There was an anti-
macassar on the sofa and a section of red coral
under a glass cover —the usual features, ihe
glass cover might have preserved a stuffed parrot
from the cat; or kept the flies from roosting on a
collection of impossible wax-fruit; but it hap-
pened to surround coral. No Australian bush-
parlor could be a parlor without something of the
sort.
Alter wandering over the furniture, my eyes
approached the walls. There were six frames.
The first was a certificate awarded by the school
authorities to Mary Savage for proficiency in
drawing. That was the commencement of Mary’s
career as an artist.
The next picture, an illuminated, home-made
text: “Mother, Where Is That Radiant Shore,”
equalled in native atrocity anything that ever
met the human eye.
The next, in a deep gilt frame, set forth that
Mary Savage had been awarded a gold medal
“ For flowers and water-color.”
The art career of this awesome young person
was in full blast.
After tiie medal came a more ambitious treat-
ment—a bird, a nest, and eggs. It occurred to
me that they were alligator eggs; that the invisi-
ble animal which would foster-hatch them was a
pterodactyl, and that it would come out of the
geological past presently and get to work. I
began to wish that Mary’s mother would reappear
with the beer.
I followed on to the next item in Mary’s gal-
lery, and it proved to be roses.
That gave me hope. When a young woman
(one of Mary’s particular artistic temperament)
begins painting roses, the end is near. It was.
The last picture showed Mary Savage in bridal
robes on the wall.
I breathed out a great sigh of thankfulness, and
resumed the horsehair chair from which I had ex-
citedly arisen to pursue Mary’s career.
The lady of the house reappeared from the hole
under the bar puffing heavily, and said there was
no beer.
I said never mind, I’d take whisky. I thought
I needed it more.
E. J. BRADY.
A Letter from the Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MAN’S a creature curious—he swears he
doesn’t care;
Yet hoards with zeal penurious a scrap of
Someone’s hair;
A flower that’s old and perishing, a garter or a
glove—
How many men are cherishing these souvenirs of
love ?
They pose, of course, as sceptical—all cynics
through and through ;
And yet in some receptacle they hide some
treasure true !
Profane and atheistical, and yet, amidst life’s
whirl.
They guard with fervor mystical a Letter from
the Girl I
The writing’s half illegible—three hasty words or
four;
What memories are dredgable from, days that
come no more !
When Time has paid the reckoning, from days
that sleep afar
What eyes and lips are beckoning—gone out, that
d d cigar !
All smoke and idle vaporing, so life goes sliding
by ;
And still the years are tapering and some day one
must die !
Yet oft amidst Death’s mysteries one finds a
faded curl,
Or else—they have their histories ! —a Letter from
the Girl!
How many men have pondered it —the joy that
did not stay ;
When life was rich we squandered it and threw
the best away !
The days that gleamed supernally, the nights that
shone with stars;
These things have changed infernally—there’s
whisky and cigars !
The club to play a hand or two, the siphon and
the cue ;
Liqueurs ?—a special brand or two. So life goes;
pouring through
The hour-glass of humanity in mingled sand and
pearl;
Dear svmbol of dead vanity—a Letter from the
Girl !
A man in days respectable looks back unto the
past;
Dear days of joy delectable—too glorified to last!
There’s work—prosaic bus-i-ness—to fill remaining
years ;
When life has lost its fizziness no idol new
appears!
Her ribbon sets you wondering if she is married
yet;
The seas and oceans sundering deride each vain
regret!
How do the days come back again—how ghostly
hansoms whirl,
When some man’s hands unpack again a Letter
from the Girl !
VICTORIA,
GRANT HERVEY.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
1
•I The Besses o’ the Bara
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
CRACKAJACK >
(SENIOR)
Built to Beat the Band
fc
•J The Reeds are made
of Be.i Metal, and
are Tuned to Perfec-
tion.
rgans
a
ac
MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds ... 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds . . . 1/-
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds ....... l/»
Crackajack Cadst, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents
- ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and is the only;
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
1
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Bottr Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Peng|
Seven
Prize Medals
Works :
Birmingham, Ewgrl«»snc^*
These series o!
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Bor.
.l ....HI. .111..,.
nrnErci
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, lumbago,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J <& 2/9 per box
Propcifttors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
ASTHMA CURE
EfIMAWTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Biffienßy In expectoration. Asthma, NervonsCooghs,
Catarrh, Seeplessness and Oppression immediately
reHe*e& by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
KTTKS. Sold by all Chemists.
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
I/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
It Duality Not Better
tr» a
‘ Guinea Pipe
WICK SIMMONS
_ SYDNEY.
Storekeepers & tobaccomlsts
SHOULD SEED FOR OUR TRADE LIST
D
Bsfg C
Berated Goldenseal
Compound
r A safe and simple remedy for 1
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever l
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
, Treatise wi th jach bottle
or mat led on request.
. He Enas Oiesical Co.
Gatimati, Ohio. JF A
O.S.A.
“ f I THE Australian thinks in Continents, because
JL he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that eaters for a Continent.
DO YOU KNOW WHAT
a miserable feeling it is to suffer from Indigestion—to be afraid
of eating —unable to take -what you would like for fear of after-
effects— to possess little or no appetite—to suffer from “ wind ”
and occasional pains near the heart (caused by flatulence) —to be
troubled with an unpleasant sense of repletion after only a
moderate repast ? Are you upset in these ways, and are you
sometimes Constipated—Liverish—Bilious— Headachy—or col-
loquially “ A bit off-color ” ? How often do you feel that, although
you can scarcely say you are really ill, you are far from being as well
as you would like —as well, in fact, as you know you ought to be ?
BEXGHAMS
PIU.S
are the speedy remedy for any such ailments, and indeed for all
disorders due to an unhealthy condition of the stomach and
bowels, or sluggish action of the liver and kidneys. Beecham’s
Pills are compounded with great care from ingredients of vegetable
origin, specially valuable for their purpose. You need only to try
Beecham’s Pills once to be satisfied as to their genuine worth.
So many thousands of English people take this medicine with
beneficial results, and it also commands such an enormous sale
abroad, that without question it has become the world’s most
popular household remedy. Taken as directed, these famous
pills are always efficacious. The healthiest person is the better
for a little medicine from time to time, and you will find an
occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills the best tonic-aperient for
general use. After a trial you will have no need to ask what they
CAN DO FOR YOU
Sold in Boxes, labelled, price (36 pilis) (
1/1(56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUCRJST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
M.nte since 159f1.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelasftes, Weak Sight
Arityour chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S* GREEN, 210. Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
5 as
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
'
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
vim
SS
BPSS
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brandsat a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree “Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cares the same
diseases 'without
iaceaveaience
m
48 hours.
Each Capsole bears the same WT


Mining Rubber Goods.
Mr. Mine Manager, deal direct
with the manufacturers for all
your Eubber Supplies, and so
make sure of getting the most
reliable goods at rock bottom
rates.
We specialise in Sheet Eubber,
Insertion, Hose, Tubings, Buff-
ers, Engine Packings, Asbestos
and other Rubber and allied
goods. We can make to order
any special goods required, and
are also agents for the “ Titan ”
Leather Belting.
Write for Catalogue No. 13.
It is free for the asking and will
help you.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
Combined Electricity and
Destructor Undertaßing's
are becoming general. The ** HEENAN ” Patent Is the last thing in
Refuse Destruction —
PAYS FOR ITSELF IN A FEW YEARS.
Full particulars on application to
AUS 7o% L c A v s ! AN T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.,,
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
TRADb.
lass
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a cuard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Kardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6ds
Packet of Ten. sd.
CRUTCHING MADE EASY
WITH
THE
HAND-POWER MACHINES.
VARIOUS MODELS.
Send at once for Catalogues and Prices to—
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
SOLE A
Miller’s Point,
SYDNI
Agents lor N.S.W. and Queensland; also lor TANGYE’S and CLAYTON and
SHUTTLEWORTH MACHINERY.
Tangyes Oil Engine.
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
ENGINES FOR THE FARM $ STATION
TANGYES Oil Engine —Works on Ordinary Kerosene,
Very simple to opefate—Thorojughly Reliable.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable
Steam Engfine —Superior in every detail to any
other Engine of its class—Very popular for Sawmilling.
_
.1
Volts 2-6 to 2-7
Capacity 60 amp. hours.
HIGHEST VOLTAGE OF
ANY CELL KNOWN.
Something' New in Electricity.
(AN AUSTRALIAN INVENTION.)
PRINCIPAL USES:
Driving Electric Fans.
Driving Sewing Machines.
Electroplating and Typing.
Wireless Telegraphy.
Domestic Electric Lighting.
Lighting Photographers’ Darkrooms.
Charging Accumulators.
Dental Miters.
X-Ray Coils.
Surgical Cautery.
Inspection Lamps.
Exploding Mines and Blasting.
Sparking Motor Boats and Internal
Combustion and Oil Engines.
Size—Bin. x 4fin. x 4|Jn.
I—Porous Pot, 2—Carbon
Cylinuer, 3—Zinc,
4 Glass Vessel.
Price —14/6 per Cell. Each Cliarge, 2/-
FURTHER PARTICULARS WILL BE SUPPLIED BY POST.
Bleeck-Love Primary Battery (*£s,
40 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NOY
(Sydney)
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace.
PERTH.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
be:^
Galvanised
Corrugated
Iron.
DRINK
*
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD
263 George Street, Sydney;
525 Collins Street, Melbourne-
EVERLASTING 8.0. VALVE.
SELF-GRINDING AND SELF-CONSPENSA TING.
Screwed or Flanged. Iron, Semi-Brass and All Brass.
ALU SIZES FROM lin. to Stn. NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Section of Valve,
