

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
R. O. WATKINS «$£ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
/ ' ■ FOK— _ ,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW-and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Machine Tools,
Lathes, Planers, Shapers,
Drills, etc.,
By the World’s Best Makers.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
HOBART.
2*5
jjadley’s Orient Botei.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
</. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON
Fine Apple Brand
MAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
'! '* ■
HANSEN’S
ħ
*>, INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awartieti 130 First-Class Prize Mstials.
h
279 George Street
•A /V
b _ V _V * J V
$
s,
s
€►
a
<>>
V
O
Money advanced upon ail Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THfc COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
°”T BECK’S LAGER BEER
PABCO ROOFING has proved most successful in all tropical and
semi-tropical climates.
In California hundreds of residences in Los Angeles and Pasadena have
adopted PABCO, and “they look perfectly beautiful in their cool, white
and pure simplicity —a wonderfully restful and comforting roof.” Why not
PABCO your home?
THE PARAFFINE PAIN! COMPANY, CfiALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager. v
PABCO
(ASBESTOS COATED MALTHOID).
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
V
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
Jitoffat Virtue £4
rnerch
Machine
nts
Sydney
Bent
Office)
(op
y
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
HEUDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
8 HALLORAN, Ltd..
Agents.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 32.—No. 1646,]
[Thursday, August 31, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BUSINESS MEN.
Barton, J. S.: 20th0entury Bookkeeping, 10s6d,p. Ils2d.
Cropper, h. O.: Bookkeeping and Accounts, 4s 6d, p. 5s 2d.
Dicksee, L. R.: Business Organisation, ss, posted 5s 3d.
Dicksee, L. R.: Auditing, 255, p. 275. [l2s fid, p. 13s 2d.
Dicksee, L. R.: Bookkeeping for Accountant Students,
Dicksee, L. R.: Bookkeeping for Co. Secretaries, 6s, p. 6s 6d
Fieldhouse, A.: Students’Bookkeeping, 14th edition, 4s,
posted 4s 9d.
Fieldhouse.A. :Key toAdvanced Bookkeeping, ]6s p 16s8d
French, Geo.: Art and Science of Advertising, 10s, p 10s 6d
Lisle s Accounting:: Theory and Practice, 18s, p 19s
Moody : Men Who Sell Things, 8s 6d, p. 3s lOd. [p 16s 8d
Nathan: How to Make Money in the Printing Business ifis'
Scott s Psychology of Advertising:, 7s. posted 7s 6d ’ ’
Seouller: Pract. Accountant’s Guide, 2s 6d, posted 2s lOd.
Steele : Present Day Bankir - ■ ■ ~ -
ROBERTSON’S,
Complete List of Business Books Sent Free to Any Address.
Booksellers —238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EU MENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
m
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The. Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY,
■
the Australian States, New-
free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
and, and at 320 Regent Street, London
A;
gencies in all
The RED PAGE
Queed —Henry Sydnor Harrison (Con-
stable). An American sentimental story
of considerable, interest. Queed, \a
brusque little man absorbed in a work
on Evolutionary Sociology, is gradually
humanised, becomes a good journalist,
develops his muscles, and evolves from
consuming egoism to heroic altruism.
He is impossible, of course, but if you
read it as a fairy tale for grown-ups the
book will do you good.
The Girondin —Hilaire Belloc (Dymock’s).
Belloc opens with the Revolution in
progress at Bordeaux. The duel and
escape of the Girondin are well done,
though the general features are familiar.
The account of his subsequent career
in the bedraggled skirts of the revolu-
tionary army, of the tramp in the rain,
and the battle of Valmy is a masterly
one. The book is the best of Belloc’s
clever novels.
Wells Brothers —Andy Adams (Constable).
A plain, straightforward narrative of
the lives of two boys who became cattle
kings in Kansas. It is a more telling
picture of the backblocks of America
than the majority of their highly-colored
.romances.
Table D’Hote —W. Pett Ridge (Roycroft
Libi’ary). An entertaining assortment
of hors-d’oeuvres, joints and sweets
made in Pett Ridge’s best style.
Nonsense Novels —Stephen Leacock (Dym-
ock’s). The author of Literary Lapses
is a professor of political economy in
Canada, which does not prevent him
from being extremely humorous. These
“condensed novels” are burlesques
rather than parodies, and will amuse
the reader whether he spots the origi-
nals or not.
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS.—3
Thomas Bailey Clegg
Amongst the half dozen or so who have
written acceptable novels of Australian life,
T. B. Clegg has an honorable place. As will
be seen from his owm story, which follows,
his career as a novelist did not begin until
he had reached mature years, and had gradu-
ated in journalism. The four novels which
stand to his credit are carefully written;
there are no slovenly sentences in them, and
no artificial “flowers.” There are romance,
adventure, excitement, ingenious plots, quiet
humor and the philosophy of an optimist
who believes that though all’s not right with
the world, there is a soul of goodness even in
things evil, which will keep man on the up-
grade. Clegg is an admirer of the sturdy
bushman and the self-reliant, prolific bush-
woman. He is a lover of the country, with-
out despising the town, and all his books are
pervaded by Australian atmosphere, which is
as unobtrusive as that which drifts softly
through The Bulletin office.
The theme of The Love Child (1906) is a
delicate one for a writer in English, and it is
handled delicately. The race must flourish
at all hazards, as the good bush priest of the
story saiys:—
“Strong sons and buxom girls are more
to the world than all the advance in science
and the arts. I’ll back Molly Malone against
the musical glasses any day. It does my
eyes good to see a decent woman with a
clutch of downy-headed rapscallions round
her skirts. Begad, I often think that if I
wasn’t a father I’d be a mother. ’Deed an’
I do.”
“And a good mother you’d be, sir.”
l’d be prolific, anyhow, Vaughan,
an’ that’s getting fast to be an old-fashioned
virtue;.”
The heroine, a healthy bush-bred woman,
marries for ambition, and her unsatisfied
craving for motherhood drives her to adul-
tery. Whether lovely woman stoops to
folly or obeys a natural law, she must
suffer; so Mary dies. It was hardly neces-
sary, however, that her cold-blooded law-
yer husband should be made a Judge just in
time to try the love-child’s father for the
murder of a ruffian who held their secret.
The melodramatic note is stronger in The
Wilderness (1907). The powerful revenge
motive is worked out relentlessly to a pain-
fully tragic end; but a number of twisted
relationships are dragged in for no better
reason than the rewarding of some minor
persons.
The Bishop's Scapegoat (1908) is better
built. The story moves naturally from Eng-
land to Paris, to New Caledonia (where
some wild fighting, and Cacalouch, a fine ad-
venturer, are introduced),then by open boat
to the Queensland coast, on to Sydney, and
finally back to the convict island, where the
question whether the Bishop or his scapegoat
committed the murder in Paris is satisfac-
torily settled.
Joan of the Hills (1909) depends upon its
love interest and admirably-drawn Australian
characters.-' It is less exciting than the
other three; but, on the whole, truer and
better work. All four stories are worth
anyone’s reading now, and' will be as well
worth reading by the next generation. They
are not great, but they are good.
Here is the author’s story of his career:—
Not long ago) in the common round of
that daily task which so rarely furnishes
“all we need to ask,” I came across a link
with my boyhood—an old man, obviously
well educated, at one time intended for the
army, but whose vagrant instinct had led
him abroad. Time had not dealt kindly
with him, and in old age he had to succumb
to its buffets, and seek the relief of the
State. He was a nephew of George Eliot,
though he did not bear the family name of
Evans. Of course I questioned him about his
aunt, but, such is human nature, the one preg-
nant, ineffaceable memory that remained with
him was that she, “tipped” him handsomely
when he was a boy at school. Truly, to
quote the words on her tombstone at High-
gate Cemetery, though in a more materialis-
tic sense, “She lives again in lives made
happier by her presence.” With old mem-
ories stirred, on returning home I looked up
the author who, with Dickens and Thack-
eray, had done so much to brighten the days
of my youth. Turning over the- pages of
The Mill on the Floss this passage cropped
up: “Our instructed vagrancy, which has
hardly time to linger by the hedgerows, but
runs away early to the tropics, and is at
home with palms and banyans—which is
nourished on books of travel, and stretches
the theatre of its imagination to the Zam-
besi.”
T. B. CLEGG.
It took me straight back to a little lend-
ing library in the goldfields town where I
was born. We were too intent on gold get-
ting, in those days, to give much time to
forms of wealth that could not be floated on
the stock market, but we had, nevertheless,
a few score books of what were then known
as “standard authors” on the shelves of our
local library. I can still remember as viv-
idly, as though it had happened yesterday,
the joy of anticipation that filled my young
heart as my father made me free to delve
in this wealth of lettered matter. He put
in my hand a volume of one of Harrison
Ainsworth’s romances, I forget which, for
I read all that were on the shelves in
rapid succession. So I began my “in-
structed vagrancy,” wandering here and
there from Occident to orient, high and low
among the treasures of this little library.
I essayed much with that valiancy of spirit,
which is the precious gift of youth. How
I ploughed through Paradise Lost, and
quailed at the contemplation of Paradise
Regained, fumbled it, and left it as food for
old age, where it still remains! Macaulay,
Scott, every scrap of Thackeray I could lay
my hands on, and every morsel of Dickens!
As I write, the memory of an illustration,
showing a vacant chair before the writing-
table at Gad’s Hill, flashes across my mind.
I grieved for him with many thousand
others, on goldfield, in camp and city, the
world-wide, as one but little less than kin
and more i ban kind. I wonder if our
children will find the same joy in the
genial papers of Charles Dickens that we
found ; or is humor a malleable thing, beaten
out of the environment of the time, needing
to be re-beaten into new forms with new
manners, new conditions ? Only the other
day a friend said to me, “My little chap
has been reading Pickwick lately, and do
you know that he said in sheer innocent
bewilderment, ‘Daddy, were they all mad ?’ ”
My parents, seeing life through glasses
untinted by any rose of romance, placed
me first in their own store on the gold-
fields of Ballarat, and afterwards in a
warehouse in Melbourne, but though I ac-
quired, by striving, some knowledge of
“buying cheap and selling dear,” the heart
was not there to reach success in trade;
so, after some years, having in the mean-
time attained manhood, I reversed the pro-
cess by “selling cheap” what little I had to
sell, and became “a newspaper man.” I
enjoyed being “a newspaper man” at that
time, for life had not yet any clearly-defined
perspective. When, later on, that perspec-
tive became less nebulous, it showed that
for most “newspaper men” the vanishing
Poin.t was not at all a halo of glory set in
a golden shower. I served the Press, an
exacting master, for seven years, the greater
portion of the time as a member of the
Sydney Morning Herald staff. As special
commissioner for that newspaper I visited
New Caledonia and Northern Queensland.
From the vicinity of Cairns down to the
Richmond River, I worked my way by
horse, timber craft, and any other means of
conveyance that offered itself. The exper-
ience thus gained in the French settlement
and the sugar plantations of the Queens-
land coast, furnished, later on, local color
for The Bishop’s Scapegoat.
, At the close of the ’Bo’s, I determined to
make a trip to England, with the dual pur-
pose of seeing the Old Land and qualifying
for the Bar. Landed there, the necessity
for some remunerative work to eke out the
small stock of cash at my command at
once presented itself. It would be possible
to write much about the difficulties which
an unknown and friendless man has to
battle against before he can wrest a crust
from the grimy old city of London. How-
ever, ends were made to meet, and I burned
my boats when the heavy initial fee for
entrance to an Inn of Court was paid. Get
that money back by hook or by crook I
must. Eventually, by means of a scholar-
ship and prizes, it all came back with a
few guineas added. One turned one’s hand
to anything that offered, from reporting
financial meetings in the city to writing
up short stories to catchy titles in the maga-
zine press. There was a constant ebb and
flow of “copy’ ; to and from my diminutive
chambers, under the slanting roof of Staples
Inn, not far from my own Inn of Court-
Grey’s—on the other side of Holborn. With
some other men from across the water I
did a share of “devilling” for Sir Charles
Dilke, who was then writing his “Problems
of Greater Britain.” We found Sir Charles
a generous employer, who paid on effort, not
result —a fact of which I was happily con-
scious at my first business transaction with
him. His method was to send me a note
or card', with a list of subjects he wanted
to be informed upon. What we knew from
our own colonial experience cost little effort
in supplying, but then he so frequently
wanted to know details of matters with
which the “devil” had but the most super-
ficial acquaintance. This meant looking up
files of colonial papers—perhaps for years
back; visits to the Agents-General’s offices
and so on. When the information was
gathered we waited on him. He would, blue
pencil fin hand, devour—for it was a sort of
eating-up process—the slips of “copy” we
brought him. Sheet after sheet of manu-
script would be thrust relentlessly into the
waste-paper basket, here and there one blue
pencilled and put aside, and so the process
would go on, with such tremors on the part
of the “devil” as may be well imagined.
Then, when all was read, the fragments
would be gathered up, and a cheque be
handed over, such a fair and reasonable
cheque as filled the “devil” with pleasant
anticipations of feasts, tobacco and other
good things.
It was in London at this time that I first
got on the bookstalls. A rather instructive
experience. In reply to an advertisement in
one of the daily papers, I sent to the address
given a “shilling shocker”-—works of this
kind were much in evidence at that time;
the vogue being started by Hugh Conway’s
Called Back. 1 endeavored to< shock for all
I was worth; not Mrs. Grundy, of course,
that field went to the lady novelists of a few 1
years later; my shocks were of great ad-
ventures of the respectable do-and-derring
kind. Months went by, and I could get no
account of my wandering shocker; so, con-
cluding that it had gone the way of much
other grist from my mill, I took its loss with
the profound philosophy that only your scrib-
bler acquires. One morning passing a book-
stall —it was that rare thing a sunny morn-
ing in London —I saw, with full amaze, my
lost shocker in an illustrated paper cover. Such
a cover! It seemed to hit me square in the
face; first the yellow, then the red, then an
awful combination of the two, with inter-
mingled blobs of green or blue. Truly I had
reached the bookstalls—but in such motley.
As I lean back in my chair and smoke, the
satire of the thing comes home. I pursued
the wretched publisher, and with my newly-
acquired store of law so held him up that in
the end he yielded to me in good currency of
the country a sum greater than I have re-
ceived in later days for a novel that has
cost me months of evenings filched from the
company of the home circle.
Having qualified in what was to have
been my profession, I returned to Australia,
put my name on chambers, made a few
assaults on the courts, and then came the
financial crisis. As somebody once remarked :
“The crisis has come, and brought its things
with it.” What it brought is an old tale. It
changed many lives from their currents, my
own among the number, and now I am a
steady-going public servant, with all thoughts
of the woolsack vanished years ago. But
the titillation of the scribbler’s itch never
wholly ceases ; and this perhaps accounts for
the four novels to my name — The Love
Child, The Wilderness, The Bishop’s Scape-
goat, and Joan of the Hills. They were pub-
lished in England, and to those who contem-
plate doing anything in the same way, I
would, in passing, remark that England is a
long way off. Ido not know much about the
ways of publishers, but have often felt that I
would like to know a great deal more. Why,
for example, they should continue to lose
such vast sums of money in exploiting the
works of unknown authors. Perhaps Bar-
abbas was also a philanthropist. I have no
fault to find with my own publishers, they
have, at all events, paid me something—and
that is better than nothing, which, I under-
stand, has in other cases with other pub-
lishers been, if we set aside that virtue of
authorship which may be its own reward,
the sole guerdon of aspiring fame. The
writing of qovels is nowadays as much a
trade as the selling of any other kind of soft-
goods, and to do business, you must be a
business-man, and must be on the spot. True,
you can w r ork through agents, but agents,
like all commercial men, find it more profit-
able to sell well-known and well-advertised
brands. ’ How to become well-known and
well-advertised is a secret —the secret which
allied, and in the end it must be so allied,
with something of real merit, spells success
whether in fictional literature or Blowser’s
Pills.
Yet if to be ‘‘one of the best sellers,” and,
consequently, fill one’s purse, is not the sole
object of your author, he may gain some re-
ward from his act of creation. He has
brought a new life into the world. It may
be a poor thing, but it is his own; and he
cherishes this often maimed, misshapen bit
of creation with the self-satisfied affection of
a parent—if the world buffets it, what mat-
ter, it is the way of the world, says Sir
Egoist, and they could not appreciate all
that lies in my beautiful child. He has his
consolations, truly!
More Confessions of a Beach-
comber
E. J. Banfield’s first book, The Confes-
sioris of a Beachcomber, of which a new edi-
tion has been issued at 3s.- 6d., nas met with
well-deserved success. The writer happened
to be just the man for a unique opportunity.
Other men have secluded themselves, or have
been marooned on more or less lonely
islands without much profit to anyone else.
Banfield is a voluntary Orusoe on a little
island within-sight of the Queensland coast,
who has studied every phase of life upon it,
and has set down the most interesting oi
his results in a bright style. He knows the
virtue of “not too much.” His details are
always sufficient to make a clear picture of
the episode in hand, but never enough to
bore. One book could not hold all the good
things he had to tell about his life on Dunk
Island, where he has lived with his wife
since 1897; and, in response to several sug-
gestions he has published another volume —
My Tropic Isle (Fisher Unwin).
In the new book Banfield has filled in a
few blanks in the first, especially with re-
gard to the building of a house by his own
inexperienced hands, the food, cost of living,
etc.; and then passed on to fresh anecdotes of
the cunning worms and cute fishes, the play
and reasoning power of certain birds, the
habits of the sea-cucumber or beche-de-mer,
the. curious bivalves and other small deer
which frequent his island ; besides the antics
of his solitary horse, and the amazing skill
and superstition of his black neglibors.
Was there ever a white man who rejoiced
so exuberantly as Banfield does in the magi-
cal power of the tropical sun? Here is a
paean to His Majesty:—
~ great and glorious and mighty sun!
Uh, commanding majestical sun! Superfine
invigorator; bold illuminator of the dim
spaces of the brain; originator of the glow
which distills its rarest attars! Am I not
thy true, thy joyful knight? Hast thou not
touched my toughened unflinching shoulders
with the flat.of thy burnished sword? Do I
not behold its. jew'elled hilt flashing with
pearls and precious stones as thou sheathest
it for the night among the purple western
lulls? Do I not hail its golden gleams
among the fair-barked trees what time each
scented morn I milk my skittish goats?
That outburst followed some eloquent re-
marks upon the foolishness of clothes, and
the virtue and delight of bhthing the body in
sunlight and ocean when the thermometer is
at 112 deg. The life changed him from a
pale weakling of Bst. 41b. to a tough brown
man of lOst. 21b., which is a good ad. for the
island, even if it were not otherwise made to
appear like an earthly paradise. An exten-
sive circulation of Banfield’s'books will cer-
tainly; start many people on the quest for
other similarly delectable spots, without re-
flecting that the successful Crusoe is
born, not made. A woman like Mrs. Gunn
found roses and incense in the unpromising-
desert of the Never Never.
Readers of the Confessions will be glad to
extend their knowledge of Dunk Island and
the unprofessional beachcomber; but My
Tropic Isle is complete in itself. The reader
will be inclined to agree with the author
that “the whole world might be brighter and
better if coral reefs were more generously
distributed.”
♦
Edward Dyson’s Fact’ry ’Ands is one of
the most humorous books written in Aus-
tralia ; and readers will welcome a further
collection of stories about the ’Ands pub-
lished by the N.S.W. Bookstall Co. as Benno
and Some of the Push. Most of the yarns
have appeared in The Bulletin; but Norman
Lindsay’s illustrations were made specially
for the book.


JL
a
No. 1871 E—Sterling: Sil-
veP-mounted Hair Brush,
Empire Design, Special
Bristles, 22/-.
m
m
m
-II
m
m
-11
Plated Perfume Casket,
with Bottle of No. 4711
Eau de Cologne. 3/U.
For Excellence and Economy in
Dainty Brushes and Toilet Re-
quisites put Perfect Faith in
ANTHONY HORDERNS' FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 18918.
Hall Set Mirror Centre Cloth and
Hat Brushes, Black Backs, 15/-
Blackwood Stand —mirror centre —-
2 Cloth and 1 Hat Brush. Black
Backs. 18/-.
No. 1891 F.
Mahogany Hall Set Nickel-mounted
Brushes. 28/6.
Price Lists Posted
>
Free on Request.
No. 1891 —Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush,
Fancy Design. 20/-.
No. 1871 P—Sterling Silver-
mounted Hair Brush,
Chased , Design, 11/6, 15/-.
Electro-plated Perfume
Casket, with Bottle of
Favorite No. 4711 Eau
de Cologne. A dainty
and useful present. 5/-.
No. 1848 A—Square Cut Glass
Bottles, Silver Cap Top. 3 sizes.
4in„ 6/6; sin„ 7/6; 6in„ 9/6
Perfume
Height:
No. 101.3 —Siionge Holder, Nicltel-
plaled on Brass, for Hanging on
Bath, 8/6.
No. 1612 — Sponge and Soap Holder,
Nickel-plated on Brass, for Hanging
on Bath, 8/6.
No. 1848 —Cut Glass Scent Bottle, Silver C'ap
Top. Height: 3in., 4/6; 4in., 6/6; sin., 9/6.
No. 1891 A—Sterling Silver Hand
Mirror, Fancy Design, 28/6.
No. 1871 E—Sterling Sil-
ver-mounted Hair Brush,
chased design. 11/6, 15/-.
Terms: Spot Cash.
-Jt
No. 1818X — Nickel-mounted Stand, with Hair,
Cloth, and Hat Brush, nickel backs; made to
stand or hang, 25/-.
m
m a
m
m
m
No. 1871G —Sterling Silver-
mounted Hair Brush, Em-
pire and Knot Design.
Special Bristles, 22/6.
No. IS2JA —Sterling Silver Hand
Mirror, Fancy Design, J 2/«, 16/-, 17/-.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S,W


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
ill;;!!)!!
IliiiV
a;:!! ...UK.:
EACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
72 feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps firmly
together with the adhesive cement i which we supply
free. We supply the nails and tin caps free also.
With each roll goes a ten-year Sufety Bond Guar-
antee. Back of the guarantee stands the Royal
Exchange Assurance of London. ,
Sample free on request.
Congo Damp Course is a waterproof,
antiseptic felt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expense is trifling.
AGENTSNoyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney
Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd., Melbourne ; Brabant* Co.,
Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton ; Harrold
Coicon & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah
Co., Ltd., Perth.
Tasmanian Aprents—William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabari, Jr., Hobart
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
h
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
bo near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larg-e bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1,
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/=
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
/
y
\
Royal
Mothers
nse
Ashton & Parsons’
Infants* Powders
for the
little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fret-
fulness and the many
ailments common to infancy
Powders Recommended by H.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF HOHENLOHE.
VON-REUX LEBEN, Marshall of the Court to H.R.H. the Duke of Saxe-Coburg,
Duke of Albany, Winter Palais, Gotha, writes“ With thanks for your sending Infants’
Powders, I have the honour to let you know that the Powders are recommended
by H.R.H. The Princess of Hoheniohe, for my own children.’’—January ix, 19x0.
ASHTON & PARSONS’
INFANTS’ POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless—they cool the gums—comfort the child—produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep— render teething quite easy—prevent pain and disorder—
are pleasant to the taste—are mild and gentle in action—may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe— and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
ĥ
Supplied by Royal Command lo-
fi. IM. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H R H. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
ħ
py Ashton & Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, 1/1J; 60 Powders, 2/9;
100 Powders, 4/6. To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS:—ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
ofters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
STEVEN 5
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. 14i
THE RIGHT RIFLE FOR THE YOUNGEST BOY.
Parts attached to action itself, making it very simple. Weighs 2]/ 2 pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will also shoot .22 Long
R., F. and .22 Short R. F.
Af’ Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens - Pope Cata-
logues. 16
Will Anprape »■ BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockerv Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, l/l ; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvoyance, 1/1 : Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to 1 each
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 ; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
ediiion, 3/6, posted 3/9; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/S; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
V; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
WTAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd's Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1 ; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do,
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
m.
m
mi
mu
mm
CAPT. H. E. U. BURKE.
An African
Letter to ...
CLEMENTS TONIC
Testimony received from Capt. H. E. U. BURKE, late
3rd King’s African Rifles, British E. Africa, and
Assistant Master, Sydney Grammar School, College
Street, Sydney. States his opinion of what Clements
Tonic can do in cases of Fever, Wasting Illness, Loss
of Sleep or Appetite, Indigestion, or Convalescence
after severe illness.
“ The Cottage,” 250 Ocean Street,
Paddington, I 7/ 1 /’ 11 -
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ I have benefited much by your medicine, principally in Afiica
where it was first given to me by an Australian, after a severe attack of
malarial fever. I was taken to Nairobi, the centre of Govt, in British
E. Africa, in a state of ! collapse. The greatest care had to be taken
during mv convalescence!
“My Australian i friend; gave me three bottles. It .improved my
appetite, creating desire for food, the beginning of a general restoration
to health, transforming a condition of extreme debility to one of
splendid strength. j j \
“ I was so impressed with the, medicine that I recommended it to
my brother officers. I have cause,to be very grateful to this excellent
medicine, and, as 1 am now in Sydney, I am only fulfilling a duty in
testifying to its worth. You. may, use this letter as you like.”
(Signed) H. E. U. BURKE (Capt.).
This testimony is of a high order, and! pi oves the singular health-creative properties Defective
possesses. Persons restored to health o f such serious ailments as Insomnia, ' !ra ' n ' nr p oor
Memory, Melancholia, Nerve-breakdown* Constipation, Broken Rest, Indigestion, An
Blood, Biliousness and Siek Headache, write only for the public benefit.
All Stores and Cheiaists sell CLEMENTS TONIC.


What
About
That
f VA\%-\a\\ ."^1
I \W iVV
11
v»\
AM
Ifii
There is just this much about It:
Dandruff is a germ disease, is
most untidy, annoying, and leads
to baldness. When chronic, it
is very stubborn, bu* surely
yields to thorough and energetic
treatment. All germs must be
destroyed, the scalp must be
restored to health. Here is the
remedy: Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ask your doctor about using it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
mm
GOLCRYST
immwmwmmmm
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
TEH DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
h
, Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
* Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
1 grade British-made MEAD .
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN'YEARS.
I Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook's Saddles, etc.
fc&ffi £3.10 t. £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. Write
at once, using sufficient postage.
for Free Art Catalogue and out
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dent. 280. LIVERPOOL.
— E -
m
*
m
•J
w
Four ‘ELEY’
Favourites!
Theworld-wtdeand regularly in*
creasing sales of ELEY' Cartridges
among the most exacting sportsmen
afford ample evidence of their relta*
bilny arid general excellence
Above illust'anons show t 2 bv*c smokelefs
Eley 'Vulcan’—a ligh'ly loaded smokeless
cartridge.
Eley'Universal'—a block powder cartridge,
with an enormous sale
‘Eley Smokeless’ — a popular smokelesscar«
tridge, millions are sold annually-
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Illustration shows the
Eley 44
‘WINCHESTER-.
Central Fire
Cartridge
Obtainable i
through all
Gunmakers
and Dealers
Eley Bros. Ltd
London.
m
BONNINGfON’S WILL ANSWER YES
$
•y
nosa
IRISH!
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BonningtonV' of 40 years fame.
BONNINCTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations —just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
MQ io***
60MN*
IRISH
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks dn America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RiGHAKUbUJN
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.'
Riohardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON’*
CHICAGO
ĥ
Would you like to
be Wall and Fully
Developed ?
£
/
'-j.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the ope
essential that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper
bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars quickly
take from a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. . .
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural development
is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency.
Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and although you
have been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting
disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
to normal. . „, . _ .
There are, to-day, hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked, and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects
of anaemia and defective digestion, who are now, for the first time m their lives,
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
“ Flesh-Food ” Treatment.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties have been
entirely restored to splendid form, and flat-chested young women who suffered
slow development have had the fault corrected by this treatment.
Flesh-food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is hryoad
question, and its use is no demand upon the subject's time. Many cases****
gained even up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measurement*#
to eight and ten inches.
TRIAL, SAMPLE FREE! .
We nublish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and dev«Wp-
menraud will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to yOU/r**.f
charge , upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All eommuni*
private and confidential. Write or call for full particulars.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY,
Rear Equitable Buildings. [lBOO
ħ
rFOR ALL AGES,
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
[ nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
pensable to invalids and the aged, and
w provides a full diet in sickness.
h
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Milk
Co., Slough, Bucks,Eng.
ĥ
SMOKERS
CAN BE CURED !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless veg-
etable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system, and
aids Nature in entirely eliminating the Nicotine
Poison from the system.
free trial.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this grand remedy, and also our free
booklet. Trial package often effects a cure.
Mr H. Smith, Park Farm, Jericho, Tas., says: ' I
was a hard <moker for 30 years, but since taking your
sample ot 1 obaccc specific 1 have never had asmoke.
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
Drunkards
Cured. “ Golden Specific "is perfectly harmless
and can be given secretly. It has often cured a most
violent drunkard in a few davs. Send 2d. stamp tor
Free Sample and Free Descriptive Booklet.
golden specific CO.,
Dept. 4,100 J MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless aad
cumbersome trusses ? Do you want to obtain an
appliance that is not only to wew,
but one THAT WILL HOLD TOOK RUPTURE UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS? Then write us, *»d we ,*»U
send you particulars and testimonials regards®*!
our
AIR CUSH lON APPLIANOE
JfsV'VciWSl'AWLtaSVffi'cEfSran.'^
galling steel springs or chafing leather under-
straps. The pad is made of soft pliable rubbery
which presses gently, yet firmly on THE LUKKEti
Si'OT. To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is witiiin the reach
of all Can you ask for more? PERFECT EASE
AND COMFORT FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE. An
appliance suitable for men, women and children
Descriptive Pamphlet Posted Free.
THE WINSLOW CO,,
349 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Watermtan’s
(Ideal)
FountaiiiPen
ħ
The
,Pen
that
Does
the Work.
There is only one Fountain Pen which
gives universal satisfaction —Watermans
Ideal. It is the simplest and most efficient
Fountain Pen made. Watermans Ideal
starts to write immediately the nib touches
the surface of the paper. It is clean in use,
does not blot, will not leak. Nibs supplied
to suit any hand.
12/6 and upwards. From Stationers,
Jewellers, &c„ throughout the World.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD,
Koh-i-noor House,
London. England.
Ask to see Waterman’s Ideal Safety Pens
and Pump-filling Pens.
h
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Song of the Engines.
Have you heard the engines singing when we’re home- !
ward bound at sea ?
Have you heard their anthem ringing with a beat
that’s true and 'free? :
Have you heard them . loudly pounding when each
turn we’re nearer home
And her bows the seas are crushing into rolls of
sparkling foam ? ,
Twelve knots, by God! Twelve knots point two,
And she’s only a ten-knot ship !
Shows you what the old tank can do!
We’re ahead of our time this trip.
Sixty-one, sixty-two, sixty-three, sixty-four!
(With a wake like a white ramrod).
Hark to her voice, with a rattle and a roar,
“Twelve point two, by God!”
Have you heard the engines swearing when a head-
wind comes along ?
Have you heard them madly tearing in a harsh and
angry song ?
Have you ever heard them racing like an eight-day
Yankee clock
As she brings up like a live thing with a shudd’ring,
pulsing shock ?
Oh, curse this wind ! We’re down to seven!
(Listen to that shafting swear!)
With decent luck we’d do eleven!
(It’s grunting like a beast down there!)
We’re going to miss our tide for a cert this trip,
For our wake’s like a wriggling snake.
Our Sunday’s gone! Oh, it gives a man the pip!
(Gurr-rump !) How they shake!
Have you heard the engines laughing when the wind
has fallen light?
Have you heard them lightly chaffing when the home
port is in sight?
Have you heard them gaily chanting in their sta-
tions dark and drear,
When she’s headed for the entrance, and the end of
toil is near?
We’ll soon be there! We’ll soon be there
(By the Lord! But we’ve caught our tide!
She’s measuring her beat with care.
Half an hour, and we’ll be inside)—
Sixty-one, sixty-two, sixty-three, sixty-four!
(With a wake like a white ramrod).
Hark to her voice with a rattle and a roar !
Twelve point two, by God!”
N.S.W.
A. FOSTER BAYNES.
En Menage.
I thought I should have died, indeed,
When first my Nesta made a cake.
Dislike of sweets 1 dared not plead . . .
I thought I should have died indeed.
For hours and hours I watched her knead,
For days I throbbed, I was one ache. ...
I thought I should have died indeed,
When first my Nesta made a cake!
I had some very feverish weeks
When first my Nesta joined a club.
Her nattire ran to vivid streaks;
I had some very feverish weeks.
Of these things she no longer speaks,
But deems me heartless —there’s the rub !
I had some very feverish .weeks
When first my Nesta joined a club.
I tore my hair and hid myself
When first my Nesta’s, baby came.
It scared me frightfully,, that elf;
I tore my hair and hid’ myself.
I lay unnoticed on the shelf,
The merest pawn in that new game.
I tore mv hair and hid myself
When first my Nesta’s baby came.
I was delighted—yes, but shy—
When Nesta’s room was mine once more.
I held her close, I heard her sigh;
I was delighted—yes! . . . but shy.
A sacred sweetness whispered by
From that small cradle on the floor.
I was delighted, yes; but shy
When. .. Nesta’s room was mine once more.
MAORI LAND.
SELWYN RIDER.
The Bellman.
Old Bellman Time is going his rounds;
Far down the street his warning sounds,
A cry monotonous and dread —
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
The least is set, and hearts beat strong
With wine and revelry and song.
But, hark! a clanging sounds ahead —
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
The fatal sign is on each door
The grim old Bellman stops before;
So leave your work and board and bed ■
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
Sweet child, with lips and eyes of light,
The world was fair and good and bright;
How soon was all its radiance shed !
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
Brave youth, true maiden, dreaming dreams
Of endless bliss by shining streams;
The vision fades, the dream is sped—
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
Proud man, play on your little hour
Your play of pride and wealth and power,
By Avarice and Ambition led
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead I
Priest, round whose altar ever clings
The shade of dark and devilish things;
The old gods go; their faiths are fled —
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
Kings, rulers, warriors and lords,
Put up, put up your useless swords!
No longer shall the earth run red —
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
Bring out, and place upon the cart
Each perished fancy of the heart,
Each idol dwindled to a shred —
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead.
Reluctance and regret were vain;
Naught may return, and naught remain;
Then, follow in the Bellman’s tread —
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead /
At yonder all-consuming pyre
Goes up in flame each heart’s desire;
Nor any Phoenix-wings are spread
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
Old Time, the Bellman, goes his rounds;
Far down the years his clanging sounds:
The pyre of Change must still be fed
Bring out your Dead! Bring out your Dead!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
<* •* V v V v. v !) *
■ y * a -it v > -
* i 4
< - *■
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
SE
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 JOs.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55. ; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Kidney Trouble.
PAGE’S INMAN COMPOUND
is the One Rapid Reliable Rheumatic Remedy.
SOLD BY ALL STORES and CHEMISTS, PRICE
.Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
If Mt obtainable locally, Post Free from the Manufacturers,
PAGE 8 COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
216
per
Bottle.
a
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manages.
The Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect atid Tuneful.
ALBERTS
SYSTEM
ROrESSIONAL
OOMERANG
“ BOOMERANG GRAND,*’ large size 6/6, small 3/6.
“ PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“ POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1 /=, post free.
“ ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells,
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
Customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “ BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has hot a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
ft m
ALBERT Si SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHERS!
WHETHER YOU HAVE ONE CAMERA or FIFTY CAMERAS
YOU NEED AN
- >v£. v
* v.
' f-' ! J.--mZ ■ ••-•'Vv.
Price 351-
It is the only Camera that will
fit your Vest Pocket. It takes
Sharp, Crisp Negatives, 2%in.
x I^in., which enables you to
enlarge to almost any size.
And, like all the “ENSIGN"
Roll-Film Cameras, it is day-
light all the way.
HARRINGTONS L TD
The Leading Photographic Merchants in Australia,
386 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, and AUCKLAND, N.Z.
BESIDES
rock drill hose
WE MANUFACTURE ALL
CLASSES of rubber-
goods. WRITE FOR
CATALOGUE & SAMPLES.
PERDRIAU
Rubber Hose
AT Drummoyne, right on the foreshores of Port Jackson, we have our
factory for the production of Perdriau Rubber Hose, together with
many other rubber goods.
In the making of hose we use only the highest grade of crude rubber’
strengthened with non-expanding cotton plies. The utmost care and super-
vision are exercised in order to produce only the very highest and most
dependable quality.
In addition to Rock Drill Hose, as shown above, we also produce
Garden, Steam, Suction, Air, Hydraulic, Brewers’, in fact, Hose for every
possible purpose.
Call in and get further details, or write for list and samples.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“The Best House lor all Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney,
105 Elizabeth Street, between BourKe and Collins
Streets, Melbourne.
COLUMBIA.
ĥ
ħ
h
The one best gift
at any time of the
year, is a
COLUMBIA
GRAMOPHONE I
When You Own a
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONE
You Possess the
Finest Talking Machine in the World.
’ '/ ,
Write to us for ILLUSTRATED ART CATALOGUE,
showing Disc and Cylinder Machines (FREE).
CRAVEN, TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
226 Clarence Street, SYDNEY; 54 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1646.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1911.
PIUCm fir*.
OTTAWA. Friday Evening. The
American scientific expedition, under the
leadership of Dr. Stefanssen. which has
been exploring the Arctic regions of
Canada, reports the discovery of a new
race of people, who had never before
beheld a white man.— Cable.
The new race will probably live to
regret this—especially when the white
man’s various brands of rum and religion
follow as a matter of course
First “Bloke" (readsi : “On Monday
the Treasurer expects to receive two
tons of halfpennies, the face value
of which will be £680."
2nd ditto : “ Strike me pink, Snorky !
It looks as if the Guv’ment intended
to take over the two-up schools.”
The State Minister for Works
on Saturday announced his purr
chase, on behalf of the Govern-
ment, of the Kiama Road Metal
C'ompafiy ’s quarry, together with
a steamer, the whole cost being
£14,000.
The road metal will come in handy in
the next debate on the election of *
Speaker.
ELGIN (Illinois), Satur-
day.—During the pro-
gress of an automobile
contest here yesterday
the grandstand col-
lapsed.
The disaster caused a
panic, and the police and
military had to use their
clubs against the terri-
fied crowd which
streamed over the
course in front of the
racing cars.
Man in the Street (to policeman): “ Thare is not much
Choice between being ground to powder by
car and pounded to a jelly by a policeman’s club.
In the latter case, however, no action would lie i
so, prithee, stand aside."
The Kmcenny cat act in the N.S.W
State Parliament is still going strong—
principally now through the Australian
press.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'er Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . . . . . 0 18 6
Quarterly . . . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for ‘'copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded ivitliout stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
dihect reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, I Vest Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at h/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch. Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, lib High Ilolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa.. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —'Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, JR/1 Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.• —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt, —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Affents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. * IJ/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id.- — otherwise, Soz. Id., and 8-loz. to
10oz., 2kd; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d; elsewhere, joz., Id., ’
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1911.
FREEDOM-AND FUDGE.
Thebe is a Freetrade society in Sydney, and
the other night Alfred Conroy, ex-M.H.R.,
lectured to its members on the Lost Cause,
and, incidentally, on the deplorable restric-
tions on Liberty—social, military and in-
dustrial—which prevail in Australia. The
fustian which Conroy of the Yap indulged
in—vague stuff concerning the “inestimable
blessings of freedom of commerce,” “the in-
alienable liberty of the British subject,” the
Englishman’s “home” being “his castle,” and
so forth —had a certain 'vogue as lately as
naif a dozen years ago. To-day it appears
as out-of-date as velocipedes or bustles. Eng-
land is menaced with Revolution, owing to an
overdose of the very article which the Free-
trade society wants to saddle on this coun-
try. For years Britain’s industries have
been battered and shelled and undermined
by foreign rivals. The effect of that relent-
less war has been felt in an increasing degree
during the past decade or so. It is rapidly
becoming intolerable. The average English
industry finds it hard, if not impossible, to
pay more than starvation wages, and, as a
result, the wage-earners are rising in a des-
perate frenzy of revolt, and millionaire earls
like Lord Derby have been constrained to
insure their ancestral halls against mob-
violence on extravagant terms, and obscure
citizens, like tbe late Leonard Worsey, have
been shot dead by their own countrymen.
These things are happening solely because
the country is swamped with over-produced
foreign goods—articles which may be cheap
at the price, but which millions of English-
men cannot buy because they cannot earn
the money to buy them with. The nation is
paying for freedom of trade —which is to
say, for undefended trade—with such an
army of unemployed and unemployables as
the world has not hitherto seen ; and, seem-
ingly, the end is not yet.
* * * *
The cranks who, in the teeth of all the
evidence, continue barracking for this fatal
system are—logically, no doubt —in favor
of complete freedom in other walks of life.
They look on our alien restriction laws as
immoral and uneconomic. Their ideal is
freedom of ingress, the time-dishonored Brit-
ish fetich which nas made England in gen-
eral, and London in particular, refuges for
the world’s desperadoes and outcasts. This
unrestricted freetrade in human beings, in
which Britain has engaged for so long, has
not only brought the Gold Country into bad
odor among ioreign nations, which resent
sanctuary being given to their law-breakers ;
it has also dragged thousands of British
workers down to the level of their dirt-cheap
foreign competitors. And it is likewise re-
sponsible for an increasing exodus of all that
is strongest and most enterprising among its
working classes. Thus the Cold Country, under
this system, is continuously giving new
lamps for old —exchanging healthy, reput-
able workers for insanitary and often crimi-.
nal wasters. The Freetrade enthusiasts who
gathered at the feet of Conroy the other
night reviled Arbitration and Conciliation
legislation when it was first mooted in Aus-
tralia as a grotesque attempt to restrict the
free operation of the laws of supply and de-
mand. People like Bruce Smith found the
proposal more insupportable to the temper
of free Britons even than a tariff. They
urged that the worker should be suffered to
sell his labor, and the employer be left to
buy it, without the intervention of any third
party, whether the same was a Judge or a
Board or the State; and they had the
matchless effrontery to urge it in the sacred
name of Freedom. And so with Compulsory
Service and a dozen other democratic and
defensive measures that might be named.
The point that requires to be driven
firmly home every time a Tory, masquerad-
ing under the guise of Liberalism, attempts
to justify his opposition to progressive legis-
lation by means of cant about Freedom, is
that without laws, and rigid ones, there can
be no freedom for anyone. One of the essen-
tials of real freedom in the world as it is con-
stituted to-day is money. The worker who
is hanging on to an ill-paid job by his finger-
nails, unable to put by anything week by
week, and in chronic dread of the sack, does
not know freedom. He is not free to go
away and rest if phthisis smites him; he
cannot see the world and its beauties ; nine-
tenths of the amenities of life are denied
him. In England, as elsewhere, Freetrade is
responsible indirectly for the fact that mil-
lions of workers who, after they have swal-
lowed a few beers, are ready and willing to
howl “Britons never shall be slaves,” are, in
reality, in a hopeless condition of bondage.
A tariff, as America and Germany have
demonstrated, provides regular jobs, and jobs
provide wages, lacking which a vast section
of every nation must be in a worse position,
for all practical purposes, than many of the
nigger slaves of eighteenth-century America.
Here in Australia we have got a tariff, in-
adequate in spots, but still a useful article,
take it for all in all. Yet, left to itself, it will
not procure true freedom. It must be but-
tressed by countless devices—laws to force
manufacturers to pay fair wages and pro-
vide sanitary workshops; laws to compel
workers to insure against invalidity; laws
to prevent the formation of injurious Trusts
and to destroy those which are already in
existence. The ultimate end of all these
measures is not to fleece or ruin the em-
ployer, or rob him of one iota of his lawful
freedom, but simply to provide the classes
that hitherto have not known such things
with (1) living wages, (2) facilities to get
a measure of physical and intellectual enjoy-
ment out of life, (3) absolute security
against want. With those advantages, the
humblest citizen is free —not so free, possi-
bly. as the millionaire whose time is his own,
and whose playground is the world, but
still free enough. Without them he is no
freer than a plough-horse.
* * * *
There is another form of freedom to which
those who ask for license to import cheap
goods and labor, lay claim; namely, the free-
dom to leave their native land undefended.
The deadliest shaft these folks levelled at
the Fisiier Government’s Compulsory Ser-
vice Bill was that it “interfered with the
liberty of the subject.” Yet these same people
are only enabled to eat their meals in their
own homes, without loaded firearms beside
their plates, because the liberty of the sub-
ject is interfered with by the State, in so far
as burglary is concerned. We are free to
walk abroad in security for no other reason
than that restrictions are placed, by law, on
highway robbery. Life would indeed be an
intolerably narrow and comfortless and
furtive business if checks were not placed on
people’s freedom to restrict the freedom of
others —from the jostling of passers in the
street, or accosting their womenfolk, up to
the license to shoot strangers on sight.
In this way compulsory military ser-
vice, the policy which the advocates
of undefended trade and undefended la-
bor quite consistently assail, stands really
for the highest possible form of freedom —
national freedom. The “conscripted” Ger-
man knows it. The Korean doesn’t; and
though for it he would probably be prepared
to face the bondage of many, drills, he never
will know it now.
* * * *
Our modern whole-hog individualists are
the heirs (unconsciously, in many cases) of
the robber barons who raged impotently
when Society first organised itself sufficiently
to be able to put an embargo on murder,
theft and kindred crimes. They want the
nation to be vitiated by a Freetrade tariff for
the enrichment of a tiny aristocracy of
agents, capitalists and importers; they hold
that so long as there are workers ready to
submit to the exactions of sweating employ-
ers, the State has no right to interfere with
the process; and, above all, they hold that
no one should be forced to defend anything
—not even his country’s honor—because
compulsion is un-English, and the negation
of that Freedom Avhich is the Briton’s in-
alienable birtli-riglit. It is a grotesque and
horrible misuse of an inspiring Avord. To
believe that this is Freedom is to credit
Freedom Avith more than half the Avorld’s
misery and crime.
ON THE ADVANTAGES OF AN ELOCU-
TIONARY TRAINING.
The training of the speaking voice is a
thing which counts. Dr. John Watson
once declared that Avhen church people de-
scribed a sermon as good, they usually only
meant that they had heard it. Clear enun-
ciation, fine modulation of the voice, a care-
ful study of the devices by which pathos
and humor -can be simulated, and a skill in
gesture acquired by long practice, make up
a general stock-in-trade Avhich may very
readily enable the oAvner to pass for a saint,
an orator, or a doAvnright earnest man, as
occasion may demand. Among the rank and
file of churchmen, politicians, or workers for
any social reform the trained elocutionist has
an enormous advantage; and lack of per-
sonal force, real grip of vital questions, and
conscientious convictions can be more than
balanced by a studied use of words and
phrases which tickle the public ear, and
SAvay an audience even against its better
judgment. The oratory of the Greeks was
largely a matter of elocutionary skill, and it
Avas a recognised axiom of the Hellenic
Avorld that the thinker who could not ex-
press his thought with grace and force
might as well have saved himself the trouble
of thinking at all. It is true that in mod-
ern times virile and rugged spirits have
triumphed over their lack of the cultivated
voice and modulated utterance by the sheer
power of their big manhood. An Abraham
Lincoln or a Richard Seddon might win
his triumphs by the tremendous personal
appeal of his own natural strength; but
smaller men are well advised if they study
the talker’s art Avith infinite attention to
detail. And the smaller they may happen
to be, the greater the height of popular
esteem to which a complete knowledge of
elocution may carry them.
That notorious person, William Shaks-
peare, who is reputed to have knoAvn quite
a number of things about human life, elab-
orated the triumph of the elocutionist over
the mere natural orator in a melodrama
which turned upon the central historical
fact of several unpleasantly-disposed people
sticking their knives into Julius
After the puncturing, Brutus, the honor-
able leader of the band of patriotic cut-
throats, addressed the Roman mob. In big,
natural, rolling periods he declared his
motive, and excused his action; and the
crowd, swayed by his personality, recognised
him as a genuinely honest man, and shouted
their applause. Mark Antony followed.
He said he was no orator as Brutus was;
but he refrained from remarking that every
trick of the trained elocutionist and skilled
actor was his. With tears in his cultured
voice, and with shallow Avords Avell-measured
to the capacity of his hearers, he sAvayed the
throng at his Avill; and, as a result, Brutus
Avas soon running for his life, and the whole
Roman Republic had petered out before a
few stage tricks and cleverly-spoken phrases.
It was the triumph of easily-modulated
words over that passion for truth and right
which had been furnaced in the flames of
knowledge and experience. In a word, the
little man who knew how to use voice and
gesture to suit the occasion, made himself
for a moment greater than the greatest man
in Rome.
The value of the study of elocution cannot
be over-estimated. The ambitious Australian
who would figure largely on the passing stage
should get to work at once. Good masters
can teach him much ; and by constant prac-
tice along well-defined lines something like
perfection may be achieved. A suitable ar-
rangement of mirrors is a great help to a
mastery of proper and dignified gesture, and
—if the suburban landlady will tolerate it —
an hour’s recitation of showy selections
from poets and prose writers may be in-
dulged in before breakfast. People who decry
the art as one of a trifling and unimportant
kind, to be rated with step-dancing and
tight-rope-walking, are hopelessly overborne
by the stern logic of experience. It is the
one and only method by which a person of
the most moderate talent and the most slen-
der endowment in the way of ordinary intel-
ligence may be made to appear as if possessed
of transcendent genius. For the very reason
that his thought is scanty, and his grasp of
affairs weak, the man who knows how to
make the most of every syllable he utters is
bound, when he addresses a crowd whose in-
tellectual level is about equal to his own, to
duly impress them and win their highest re-
gard. He decks the shop-front with tinsel,
and the glitter readily passes for silver and
gold. In the case, however, of the aspirant
to honors who may really be possessed of
something special in the way of brains, the
tricks and graces of the elocutionist must be
used somewhat sparingly; for were these
used to their fullest advantage by a man of
real ability and weight, there would be no
saying to what dangerous heights of reform
and improved conditions he might not lead
the people. To the painstaking, mediocre
person who desires to shine with all the bril-
liance of a Chinese lantern or an actress’s
teeth, the way is wide open. Though in its
nature a small art, elocution may be pro-
ductße of much applause and no little profit.
The most prominent man in New South
Wales to-day is W. A. Holman, elocutionist.
Only a fortnight ago the air was full of
acrimonious aspersions on his political char-
acter. Wild men asserted that he w y as a
traitor to his party, and an enemy to the
greater Australian national cause. To-day
he walks abroad, cleansed, perfumed, ab-
solved pf all guilt, and wearing what old
Chaucer called a “spiced conscience.” Yet
Mr. Holman did oppose the Referenda pro-
posals of his party, did help to put back the
clock of Australian progress, did aid in pre-
venting that which would have made effect-
ive the New Protection, whereby the workers
would have received the full advantage of
every increase in wages, did obstruct the
machinery by which the Commonwealth
could have readily shaken off the Trusts and
Combines that have her by the throat, did
use his weight and influence against the
granting of powers to the Federation which
would have enabled it to deal effectively with
larger industrial matters, did prove Bmself
in the eyes of all men to be a small States
Spiter of thoroughly parochial mind. These
are plain facts Avhich no P.L.L. conference
can dispose of or deny. Moreover, the posi-
tion remains unchanged; for the man has
given no hint of repentance, nor made any
promise of more worthy action in the future.
Yet Mr. Holman goes forth with the marks
of the whitewash brush all over him. A
huge majority of his party in the State has
decided to ignore all his sins, and allow him
to continue on his doubtful way. Why?
Reviewing his Avhole career, and endeavoring
to find in him any virtues which may coun-
terbalance in the smallest degree his flagrant
offences, one is forced to a direct conclusion.
Mr. Holman is upheld by the party because
he is a good elocutionist. It is his sole out-
standing merit; and it Avould seem that in
the deliberate vieAv of the New South Wales
Labor Leagues the elocutionary skill of the
man who knoAvs lioav to handle words and
phrases, and to cleverly simulate emotion, is
of more importance than the larger Aus-
tralianism, and the good of the people of a
continent. Henceforth, earnestness of pur-
pose, deep conviction, higher patriotism and
all that made the Labor party the hope of
sturdy Australian men and women are
things of the past as far as one State is con-
cerned. Brutus is doAvn, and Mark ax-
tony holds the mob at his will.
THE FRUSTRATING OF SOME IMPU-
DENT POLITICAL JOBBERS.
During most of last week there was Parlia-
mentary anarchy in N. S. Wales, and the un-
savory spectacle of elderly politicians bark-
ing inarticulately at one another after the
manner of undisciplined dogs. The basic
cause of the uproar lay in the fact that there
happened to be 45 Laborites in the'Assem-
bly and likewise 45 “Liberals.” Our ridiculous
system of Party Government insists 1 on the
constituencies returning a majority for one
side or another if Parliament is to be work-
able. The electors of Mudgee and Liver-
pool Plains naturally didn’t take this
into consideration when they went to
the polls the other day, just as the electors
of the State at large will certainly decline to
take it into consideration at the next general
election ; and, consequently, failing the pro-
vision of a Speaker by one side or the other,
business stood to be held up indefinitely.
Now, it is more than usually desirable that
certain Parliamentary business shall be put
through without delay. The recent census
indicated that there must be a redistribution
of seats before a proper reflex of the State’s
mind can be gained at a general election;
and, anyhow, the law insists on it. So no
one is opposed to redistribution. A further
matter on which all parties are agreed is
the necessity of amending the Electoral Act.
The Labor party found in Henry Willis a
“Liberal” who was willing to take the chair
for the purpose of carrying tli'ese two needed
measures, and these only. The “Liberals”
had no Labor Speaker offering; and it is cer-
tain that if they strove from now till the
crack of doom they wouldn’t- get one. The
prospect of their gaining office Avas, accord-
ingly, rotten. And so were their proposals
for dealing with, the situation. Put in the
baldest terms, they urged that Parliament
should immediately go, under the old Elec-
toral Law, to the constituencies (the same
constituencies which had quite recently re-
turned 45 “Liberals” and 45 Laborites —a pro-
cedure which, as above mentioned, rendered
government an impossibility) and see if.
haply, the constituencies mightn’t this time
return more “Liberals” and feAver Laborites,
or vice versa. If they didn’t, Parliament
would presumably go to the country all over
again.
* * * *
Labor objected to this course. And the
most enthusiastic anti-Laborite Avill hardly
deny that in objecting it was acting in the
best interests of the taxpayers, however much
the party incidentally benefited itself or pre-
judiced C. G. Wade and Go. General elec-
tions are not things to lightly impose on a
community Avhich has its living to earn.
Apart from the dislocation of business, and
the waste of time that they <ause, each one
of them costs some £50,000. The Wade fol-
lowers viewed with frenzy the acceptance of
the Speakership by Henry Willis, not be-
cause they cared a threepenny malediction
who was Speaker, but because they recog-
nised that in an immediate general elec-
tion lay “Liberalism’s” last faint hope of
office. One explanation of this is that, to
borrow the exulting phrase of a “Liberal”
daily, “the ‘Liberals’ have never been better
organised than they are now.” Money has
been poured into the party’s exchequer, and
it has been dealt out with a free hand in the
places where it was likely to do most good.
State Labor’s funds are low; the party is far
from united (owing chiefly to the attitude of its
leaders on the Referenda questions), and it
will take some months to regain its old
solidity. The Electoral Law, as it stands,
disfranchises the large nomadic class
(shearers and the like), 95 per cent, of
whom are Laborites —a disability which the
projected provision tor voting by post will
remedy. And, finally, and above everything,
each day the Labor Administration stays in
office means further kudos for it, and, as a
result, additional support. A party is judged,
largely, on its administration, and as regards
the administrative capacity of the Labor
team, the anti-Labor papers are the most
eloquent witnesses. Taking all these factors
into consideration, it is understandable that
“Liberalism” should be enraged at the pros-
pect of the Labor party carrying on. In
the present condition of the Electoral Law,
and with the constituencies apportioned in
the unrepresentative manner they are, there
would be. at any rate, a chance of the
“Liberals” making good if a general elec-
tion were to occur at once. It is true that
they would be forced themselves to bring m
a Redistribution of Seats Bill and a Bill
amending the Electoral Law, and they
would have to follow up these measures
with another general election. But, anyhow,
they would enjoy a further term in office;
and they would then face the country with
the 5 per cent, advantage that the part.v •“
lower is supposed to hold when campaign-
ing.
* * *
Last week’s position, therefore, was that
the Laborites, since they were able to find a
Speaker, were in the position of being; an
to offer N. S. Wales the legislation it in-
quires, at the price of one general election.
The best that the “Liberals” could do was to
offer the same legislation at the price ofat
least two general elections—a bargain tnai
a reasonable State would obviously decl •
Recognising the logic of this, anti-Labont


who have sufficient decency to be ashamed of
the outrageous outburst of “Liberal” larrikin-
ism that defiled last week’s proceedings in
Parliament, are now contending that, if C. G.
Wade had only been “approached properly”
by Holman, he would have agreed to some
unspecified “arrangement,” whereby the same
result could have been attained peaceably.
But the yarn cuts no ice. Before the Labor-
ites secured Willis’s assurance that he
would accept the Speakership, the “Liberal”
leaders and papers breathed fire and slaughter
against any adherent of the party who
dreamed of such a betrayal of the cause — i.e.,
who dreamed of doing anything to avert an
instant dissolution. After Willis had com-
mitted himself, he was treated, both in the
“Liberal” press and by “Liberals” in Parlia-
ment, as :he uncleanest breed of pariah.
Later, during2oweary hours, “Liberalism” ex-
hausted the vocabulary of the gutter respect-
ing the infamy o’ the Labor party’s efforts
to get a Speaker from the Opposition side of
the House — i.e., to overt a dissolution. At
the dead finish of the disreputable display
Willis was suddenly placed in the Chair, as
provided for by the Orders of the House.
Then chaos and blasphemy broke loose afresh
in the ranks of “Liberalism,” to be followed
swiftly by the preposterous yarn that, at the
time of the elevation of Willis, “Liberal-
ism” was on the verge of proposing McCourt
for the job. No one believed this story; it
is unlikely that anyone was expected to
believe it. The sole object of the crusade of
bluster, vituperation, blasphemy and slander
in which the Wade party plunged neck-deep
last week, was to force on the country an
immediate and wholly unnecessary general
election, and thus advantage “Liberalism” at
the second and necessary election. In other
words, the party which claims to stand for
law and order has made a discreditable hog
of itself in a fruitless effort to bleed the State
of £50,000 towards the party’s election ex-
penses. It was an audacious attempt at day-
light robbery, which the Labor party, in con-
junction with Willis, did well to frustrate.
A DREAM OF “BROKE” HOSPITALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was Lunatic Asylum Saturday. From 8
a.m. some hundreds of ladies, none the less
earnest for the fact that the publicity and
advertisement of the street-collection game
keenly appealed to them, had been shaming
small coins out of the jeans of the multitude.
The daily papers helped on the good work
for all they were worth. They printed the
collectors’ names, the streets where they
were stationed, and mendacious statements
concerning their powers of persuasion and
all-round allurement. Young men with cam-
eras were to be seen on every side. From
time to time they would pose a stout gentle-
man in a plug hat in the act of dropping a
coin into a money-box held by a female in a
race-frock and a galvanised smile. At dif-
ferent points, along the street, similar
females were being snapped acting similarly
with policemen, Chows, hod-carriers, par-
sons, and other units of our great demo-
cracy. The results were destined to appear
in one or other of the agricultural weeklies
labelled “Wealth —and the Charmer,” “The
Mongol’s Mite,” “The Law Unbends,” or
some such breezy caption. Everyone, bar-
ring the collectors and a comparatively
small band of erotomaniacal youths, avid for
flirtation at any price, loathed Lunatic Asy-
lum Saturdays more than a hot northerly
in a dusty thoroughfare. But, as the papers
pointed out, the hospitals for the insane
were in a bad way. The public, on whom the
entirely consistent Anti-Socialist Govern-
ment of the day relied for their upkeep, had
not come forward with subscriptions in the
manner expected of it. As a result, the
mad-houses which were not frankly insol-
vent were so near it as not to matter. De-
mented persons were being turned away
daily by the asylum authorities, for the
sound reason that there were no beds or
attendants or padded cells or other conveni-
ences for them. Many households had con-
sequently to house their own lunatics, and
the howls of the afflicted ones disturbed the
neighbors’ rest, and proved a constant source
of worry and humiliation to their relatives.
Occasionally a homicidal maniac escaped from
his amateur warders, and it mostly mean!, a
horrible death for someone. Hence Lunatic
Asylum Saturday. It was a well-meaning
institution, but it did little real good, and
year by year the asylums got broker and
broker, and less and less fitted to cope with
the demands on them.
* * * *
As a matter of fact, the insignificant sec-
tion of the public which gives voluntarily to
institutions of this sort had too many calls
on its generosity. For example, there were
the constantly-recurring Gaol Balls. These
grim festivities were organised by the leaders
of Sydney society. Tickets cost from half
a guinea to a guinea apiece. For this sum
a dancing hall, a perfectly rotten band, and
a beer-and-mineral-water supper were pro-
vided. The profits went to the upkeep of
the gaols. But they were hopelessly inade-
quate. There were always two prisoners
offering for every available cell, and the pay
of a gaol official was as precarious as that
of a private in a South American regiment.
Despite the efforts of the Society ladies, the
prison authorities had not the funds either
to extend the gaol premises as need arose, or
to support the malefactors they already had
in hand. Up country, the old-time method
of chaining felons by the legs to the trunks
of trees was reverted to —an unsatisfactory
arrangement at best. The people whose cash
and energy kept the asylums and gaols stag-
gering on their uncertain way were also
levied upon by means of bazaars, raffles,
socials, house-to-house collections, and pretty
well every other means short of highway
robbery, for the upkeep of the State’s refor-
matories, penitentiaries, benevolent homes,
morgues and so forth. They gave according
to their means, albeit blasphemously in many
cases. Meanwhile the hardy economists who
lacked the public spirit, or idiocy, or weak-
mindedness, or whatever it is that impels
people to disburse liard-won coin in a foolish
cause, sat back and smiled. And, year by
year, these hospitals for the morally or men-
tally unfit, which should have been sup-
ported by taxes evenly distributed over the
whole ot the money-earners and money-own-
ers of the community, went from bad to
worse.
* . * * *
The writer had got thus far -when he sud-
denly woke up and recollected that, as a
matter of fact, the State takes the entire
burden of supporting its gaols, morgues, asy-
lums, reformatories, etc., on its own shoul-
ders, and has never left any part of that
duty to the doubtful mercies of Private En-
terprise. The State looks after the mentally-
afflicted in its midst, and does the job well;
is only the physically-afflicted whom it
allows to be turned away from its semi-
bankrupt hospitals. The gaols are run by
the State on lavish lines. But the hospi-
tals, on whose proper conduct the health of
the community depends, are kept in a condi-
tion of chronic starvation. The money is
cheerfully provided out of the consolidated
revenue for the upkeep of dozens of resorts
where decrepit old people and unruly young
ones are attended to; for tne upkeep of those
institutions wherein the lives of those most
useful to the community are lost or won, as
the case may be, reliance is largely placed on
charity.
Dazedly tlie writer drops his pen and
broods on what is perhaps the most rankly
illogical situation of modern times.
H. SINGEMOINE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tlie Deadly Results of Federation and
Protection.
“The ghastly error of Federation,” as “Lib-
eral” politicians of the mental calibre of J.
C. L. Fitzparrot are fond of squawking,
may be observed with the naked eye in the
last official publication issued by the Ma
State’s Department of Labor and Industry.
In the metropolitan district, which covers an
area of 1530 square miles, it is shown that
since Federation arrived in 1901 the number
of factories has increased by 1761, and the
workers employed by 36,850. A compari-
son of the figures in periods of five
years discovers the fact that although
the increase in hands employed from
1900 to 1905 was 10,080, from 1905 to
1910 it was no less than 21,901, and, more
satisfactory still, male employment practi-
cally held its own in that large increase. The
most conspicuous increase was in the metal
and machinery trades; there in the past
five years alone the register of employees
ran up from 4867 to 9376, an increase of
nearly 100 per cent. In the clothing and
textile fabrics industry the hands emploved
increased from 15,793 to 21,354 —also in five
years. The year before Federation started
in to “blight the Mother State’s great
future,” there were in the Sydney metro-
politan district 2047 factories Oja the regis-
ter, employing 39,104 persons; at the end of
last year there were 3670 registered estab-
lishments providing a living for 71,085 per-
sons and those depending upon them; while
the horse-power of machinery used in the
same period pulled up from 16,179 to
56,909. Out upon this Protection!
«.
The Dawn of a Great Reform.
Speaking to 200 clergymen in Mel-
bourne last week, the Victorian Acting-
Minister for Health announced the State
Government’s policy regarding the sup-
pression of syphilis. He remarked, in effect,
that the committee which was recently ap-
pointed to enquire into the ravages of this
disease, had found it to be, in every respect,
the unspeakable horror it had been repre-
sented. And he asked the churches to co-
operate in an educational campaign which
the Government proposes shortly to insti-
tute. That is all to the good, so far as it
goes. Indeed, the clamant need of some-
thing of the sort is strikingly illustrated in
the very issue of the Age which handles the
meeting. Neither in the big daily’s report,
nor in the leading article which it published
on the matter, did it bluntly name this com-
plaint. concerning which there is as little
need for genteel periphrasis as there is in
regard to phthisis or appendicitis. If the
syphilis curse is to be grappled with effect-
ively, it will have to be dragged out of the
atmosphere of mvstery and suggestiveness
in which it has flourished for so long, and
be paraded in the cleansing light of open
discussion. No one’s morals are going to
be injured in the process. In fact, if young
people—tlie future fathers and mothers of
Australia —were thoroughly instructed in
the nature and possibilities of this affliction,
the knowledge would do more to anchor them
to the Narrow Path than many sermons.
Their clergy, the newspapers, their parents
and their teachers might tell them, as oc-
casion arose, that syphilis is responsible for
very nearly all cases of general paralysis of
the insane, locomotor ataxia, brain soften-
ing, etc.; that most nervous troubles proceed
from it, directly or indirectly; that the
victim of it is a loathsome pariah for years
and, perhaps, a wreck for life. As to its
effects on the innocent, let the Doctor in
Brieux’s play, “Les Avaries,” speak :—-
Above all else, syphilis is a child-murderer. Every
year produces a fresh massacre of the innocents.
Herod still reigns in France and all the world over.
And though it is my duty to preserve life, I tell
you that those who perish are the luckiest. If you
want to see the children of syphilitic parents, go to
the children’s hospitals. We know the type: it has
become classical. Any doctor can pick them out
from the rest; little monsters, old from birth,
stamped with the marks of decay and every human
ill. You shall find children who are hump-backed,
twisted, club-footed, hare-lipped, rickety, with heads
too big, bodies too small and hips diseased.
The mention of these things may revolt the
msthetic, but there should be no protests
from the moralist, and there certainly will
be none from the mere pagan whose creed is
the happiness of mankind. A campaign of
education, honestly—-which is to say ruth-
lessly—carried out, is going to do a lot of
good, but it doesn’t go far enough. N. S.
Wales promises to give the other States the
further lead that is required in this matter.
The Ministry decided last week, provided it
remains in office, to instruct every subsi-
dised hospital in the State that, if it desires
to retain its subsidy, it must immediately
set aside a ward for the treatment of syphi-
lis cases, which ward shall be designated in
the ordinary way (“A” or “B” Ward, or
what not), instead of “Lock” or “Magdalen”
Ward, as hitherto. This means that Sydney
Hospital (say), which for many years has
shied at these cases, will in future be forced to
treat them, and that it will do it, moreover,
without heaping unnecessary shame on the
sufferers. When in every State in the Com-
monwealth there is an active movement in
the direction of teaching the ignorant what
this horror really is, and with it a serious
effort on the part of the authorities to
stamp it out, Australia will be some distance
on the road to that splendid consummation
aspired after by The Bulletin six
months ago—namely, the reputation of being
not only White, but Clean.
♦-
Water and Waste—with a Word About
a Tiger.
From G. IT. Blakemore, a good Australian,
who spent many years out West (N.S.W.)
as general manager of Great Cobar :
In a busy three months I have been able to see
something of 12 of the States of the U.S.A. ; and the
great fact which has burnt, itself into my mind is
that the prosperity of 10 of the 12 is due almost
wholly to irrigation. I have been in Washington,
Oregon, California, Nevada, Utah, Arizona, New
Mexico, Texas, Louisiana, Colorado, Idaho, and Wyo-
ming. In all of these there is some irrigation. In
Louisiana it is used to give an increased prosperity
over and above what the rich soil and fairly-abundant
rainfall would give without assistance; but in the
whole of lower California, a great deal of Nevada,
all of Utah, Colorado, Arizona and New Mexico, and
a considerable portion of Texas, the prosperity is
absolutely and entirely due to irrigation. Of late
years the Federal Government has been taking a
hand, and lately has put in a huge dam across the
Colorado in Arizona, and has built another one to
collect the snow-waters of the Truckee, to irrigate
large areas of Nevada ; and several immense ditches
have been dug and mountains pierced with five- and
six-mile tunnels to Colorado, to bring water to the
rich but arid district about Montrose on the D. and
R. S. railway.
The last six or seven States mentioned were
deserts until irrigation was tried; and the success
reached by the irrigators in what is apparently
clean sand is simply marvellous. There is a 4000-
acre vineyard about 20 miles from Los Angeles,
whose soil is sand as dean as that of the dunes at
Bondi. But it is irrigated, and the wonder is ex-
plained. The owners of land like this sand vineyard
will ask you SIOOO to SISOO an acre if water rights
go with it. In almost all the States there are magni-
ficent mountain ranges, with peaks thrusting their
snow-enpoed heads up into the blue, scores of them
over 10,000 ft. Even in the sun-smitten deserts of
Arizona there are rivers from these snow ranges,
and the water only has to be used. Such things
make an Australian a little sad; nevertheless, when
we get educated, and so arrange matters that none
of the fresh water in the few rivers that we do
possess ever gets to the sea except through the
clouds, we will know what land will produce. We
only think we know at present. Along the banks of
the river Darling there is soil from 200 ft. to 800 ft.
deep. If the water in the Darling which now flows
to waste were used for irrigating land only to
grow lucerne, I will swear, on my Australian know-
ledge, backed by my American observations, that
we could maintain more sheep on the banks of that
one river than the whole State now owns. Do you
wonder that from henceforward, in season and out of
season, I shall shout “Conservation of water with
irrigation” ?
I write this in Lower California, where, before
irrigation, a few miserable Mexicans made a scant
living. Now there is a succession of cities, and the
country which can be irrigated by gravity is one
huge garden. The folks in this part of America
have got over “trusting in Providence,” and with a
good irrigation ditch available, the farmer doesn’t
care if it rains one inch or 20 inches in a year—his
crop is sure. Hence there is not a poor farmer in
any of the irrigation colonies.
Of course it is of no use growing crops if there is
not a means of communication with the markets.
But in that respect Australia has an advantage over
these States, which are in the grip of railway cos.
that squeeze the last possible drop of blood out of
their customers. Such things as this the irrigators
have had to struggle against. Cabbages were scarce
in a citv, and prices went up S2O a ton; whereupon
those who were fortunate enough to have a cabbage
patch found the freight put up sls, so that the
railwavs scooped 75 per cent, of the increased price.
Australia doesn’t know what it escaped when it so
early took its railways out of the hands of private
cos., and it doesn’t know what a ravenous jaw it is
putting its head into if it lets the Trusts get be-
yond the nowers of the State.
Not only have my few months here absolutely
convinced me of the great benefit of State owner-
ship of railways (with a policy of building railways
of a development character), but I have seen so
much of “State rights” that my views on the sub-
ject have received a very severe shaking. In fact,
to myself I almost have got so far as to admit the
far-reaching wisdom of Federal control. Here State
rights have led to a condition of absolute disor-
ganisation. Towns now arrogate to themselves the
rights of States, and the spectacle of the police
officials of one town refusing to act on the warrant
of the police of another ihas become so common
that it scarcely excites a remark.
Maoriland Fills ’Em Up Again.
With the approach of-the liquor noli in Novem-
ber, the Maorilard Cold-water Dervishes are
tuning up the old, cracked No-License hurdy-
gurdy for something 'extra in the way of a
fling. The great hope this time is that
every pub in louland will be nut out of ex-
istence per medium of the “Dominion op-
tion” issue which will he presented for the
consideration of the free and enlightened for
the first time; and judging from the results
that have followed in the wake of the wiping
out of the beer palaces in various districts
since 1895, Messrs. Barrel and Bottle
may reasonably be suspected of subsidising
the movement. Since that year, when only
one no-license district was on the list, and
the cost of liquor per head amounted to
£3 Os. 5d., the inhabitants have been rolling
the old water chariot along amidst the- loud
“hie, hie, hurrah” of the procession, until in
1909, the year of the last poll, 12 districts
had turned good, comfortable hotels into
second-quality hash-factories or imported rag
emporiums, and the thirst barometer had
jumped to £3lls. Old. per head of population.
As usual, the whirling Dervishes charge the
increase against the “wave of prosperity”
which has swept the Ricketty Islands, leaving
behind it those prolific deposits from which
luxuries spring. The argument might be
right if the facts were right; but the truth
is that in the past two or three years there
has been a bad slump, bringing Civil Service
retrenchments, slackness of work, and a gen-
eral fear that the mortgage may ring the
bell any morning. Between 1901 and 1910
the national debt had swollen from £62 16s.
lOd. to £72 13s. 9d. per head of white popu-
lation, and the cost of living had also put on
weight. But if the Maorilander tightened
his belt at all it wasn’t when there was
liquor in the vicinity. On those occasions,
which are all day and every night, he merely
said: “Sufiicient unto the I O U is the day
of reckoning, JLetsaveadrink.” So he leaned
over the bar more than ever, and took home
more demijohns than ever, and became
drunker than ever, and got run-in more than
ever. In 1901, 8032 of him was convicted
for overloading himself with alcohol, and in
1910 no less than 11,718 of him had been
fined or sent to knuckle oakum. It is a
cheerful advertisement for No-License, and
proves that if the Maorilander gives all his
attention to “striking out the top line,” the
Plimsoll line will look after itself.”
♦
Another Call for a Public Defender.
A few days ago a young man named Brit-
ton was released from a Victorian prison, on
the ground that “police inquiries had estab-
lished his innocence of the crime.” He
had been sentenced to two years’ gaol for an
offence against a girl under the" age of 16;
and he had served three months of the term.
The history of the case is almost identical
with that of many others recorded during
the past few years : —-
The conviction was due chiefly to the sworn evi-
dence of the girl. Detective Sullivan, who was
afterwards sent to investigate the affair [owing to a
local petition], found that the young man was 11
miles away at the time of the alleged offence, and
could not possibly have committed it. The girl her-
self then admitted that her evidence was a tissue of
perjuries. She had also sworn that she had never
misconducted herself before; and this also, she now
admitted, was untrue.
Upon receiving the detective’s report, Attor-
ney-General Brown recommended a free par-
don, and the victim of the girl’s perjuries
and the law’s blunder was released. And,
apparently, the brilliant Attorney-General
proposes to leave it at that. Nothing in the
way of compensation is to be offered the vic-
tim ; and nothing is being done to the girl.
Brown was questioned upon both of these
points, and his replies were:—
(1) It is not usual to compensate in such cases.
(2) Nothing has been decided. There seems a
good deal of difficulty in taking action upon the
uncorroborated statement of a girl who. .. .had ad-
mitted perjury in the hearing of the case.
If the Victorian Parliament allows the mat-
ter to rest there, then it deserves to have an
Attorney-General like Brown. The question
of compensation is a minor one; but the
matter of protecting other innocent Brittons
from gaol is just about as large a one as any
Parliament could possibly handle. In the
first place, the incident shrieks for a public
defender —an official who shall see that the
State gives just as much help to an accused
Britton to prove his innocence as to a per-
juring woman to prove Ins guilt. Without
that official the State is liable to join in a
most wicked partnership with a wanton per-
son to rob a citizen, not only of his liberty,
but of his good name. Out of the appoint-
ment of a public defender would probably
spring the prosecution of some of these dan-
gerous perjurers. To-day the State is in
alliance with the perjurer; she is its witness.
But if there were a public defender, the
perjurer who tries to get a citizen convicted
would find a State official directly interested
in securing punishment for even a prosecut-
ing witness’s perjury.
A word from the Kid himself:—
Thirteen and a-half years ago, as a “State kid,” I
was, at the age of 12|, sent to a cow-worshipper on
the South Coast of N.S.W., and I was at once ini-
tiated into the mysteries of dragging fluid from the
unwilling Mrs. Bull. My daily round was as fol-
lows. My kindly employer’s yells would wake me at
3.30 a.m.—“Get up, you lazy young ; it’s
nearly 4 o’clock.” Tumbling out of bed, and bare-
footed, with only a shirt, trousers and hat, winter
or summer, I went to the night paddock, and hunted
up as many as 180 cows, while the boss and the men
had a cup of tea. Then I helped to milk (and after
a very short time was expected to turn out cow for
cow with the boss). Having done my lot, I hunted
in the horses, harnessed up one, and took the milk
to the station, four miles away. Usually there were
some errands to be done in town, so it was mostly
10.30 before I got back. My first job then was to
wash the cans and feed the horse and sometimes the
fowls; after that I was free to go and have my first
taste of food —and many a time I have been “roused!
on” for eating too much. Then I would help plough,
harvest, plant spuds, fence, or do any of the neces-
sary work of a farm until 2.30 (dinner was unneces-
sary to me, I was told, having had so late a break-
fast). Then it was bring in the cows again, milk
10 or 12, and turn the separator; wash the cans and
separator; feed the pigs, calves and fowls; chop
wood ; then pump up water to cool next day’s milk
—a shuddersome job that, one hour’s solid pumping.
By this time—often it was 9 o’clock—-I was that
tired it was a hard job to eat my evening meal. I’ve
been that weary next morning that the warmth of
the cow would send me to sleep—when, “swish!” a
greenhide leg-rope would come down on my poorlv-
clad back. The whole family was privileged to belt
me. I’ve had as many as half a dozen hi Mugs with
leg-rope, belt or stockwhip in one day, and my tired
brain was driven into a whirl trying to And the
reason. I carry a mark on my thigh to-day made by
an iron ring attached to a leg-rope. This is not
“flabby sentiment”—it is hard, cold experience. I
had five years like that—and though I didn’t know
then, I know now that it was all because I had lost
my parents before I was old enough to know them.
If what I suffered wasn’t child-slavery then I’ll ask
someone to define it. I was that worthless at 171
that when my time expired my employer offered me
7s. fid. a week and keep to stay on, and at the same
time I was handed a bank-book with £l3, my ac-
cumulated earnings. Truly an encouragement to be
a rural worker! I’m not. I came to Sydney and
learnt a trade, and to-day I’m working at it in my
own shop.
♦
“Boswell” : Sydney Telegraph (19/8/T1)
summarised the N.S.W. Labor party’s Land
policy:—
The main points of the Labor Government’s pro-
posed perpetual leasehold, as outlined by Mr. Beeby,
are “20-year re-appraisements, the first re-appraise-
ment at the end of 25 years, rent not to be collected
during the first five years, but equivalent improve-
ments to be made.”
So that is the awful policy of State “confisca-
Llanelly.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Mid sweat and tears, for years and years,
A lielot-people stooped,
Agasp for breath, at grips with death,
In reeking hovels cooped.
God’s sun at noon, God’s glorious moon,
Spread light for them in vain ;
For day and night, or dark and bright,
Brought no surcease of pain.
The stars might rise in darkling skies —
No stars arose for them.
O’er seas and trees the singing breeze
Sang but their requiem.
A famished horde, whose overlord
Grim Toil had crushed to earth,
What place had they in revel gay,
What part in human mirth?
In field and town, bowed down, bowed down
And chained, and gyved, and grooved,
They toiled, and moiled, and blackly soiled
God’s good earth where they moved.
Their cheeks were white, their day was
night,
Their night a drear eclipse,
Wherein they wept, or, shivering, slept
With pallid, muttering lips.
A wolfish few, a gilded crew,
A ravening, savage brood,
Ate of their flesh each day afresh,
And drank of their pale blood.
When drear distress, dread hopelessness,
Wife, child, man’s right to bread,
Gave manhood’s strength to them at length
Their country gave them lead.
Behold! Behold the brave, the bold,
The glorious sight! Behold
The picture blest! A toiler’s breast
Red-rent —hands clenched and cold.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


TREADING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident §
Live Stock Insurance.
International Patents and Trade;
Marks. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street.
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*'
CjHOWMEN ! Write for particulars of the-
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
EXHIBITORS!
w and all who use Cinematograph Machines
and Accessories, should call or write to
HARRINGTONS Ltd.
The Leading Cinematojrfaph House, 386 CEORCE
STR flHli’,frf YD » EY ! , an ! nt Melbourne, Brisbane,
„ Ade'aUie, Auckland and Wellington, N.Z.
Our Film Hire Library is the Largest in Australasia.
The Oil Engine
You Need.
We have the exact Oil Engine you need ;
the right power; the right kind; the right
price.
“INVINCIBLE” Engines, made at Wool-
wich Dock, Sydney, are as good as the best
made anywhere, and THEY ARE GUARAN-
TEED FOR FIVE YEARS. Our stationary
engines are as good as our Marine types, and
CARRY THE SAME GUARANTEE.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
WORKS : Woolwich.
CITY SHOWROOM : 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lily of the
Valley
Natural.
Nigjht-
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes eh af m,
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
'/
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lousrh-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD..
108 Pitt Street, Bydney.
tion” with which the Telegraph scares
cockydom when elections happen along. And
one of the land-hungry horde, who votes
anti-Labor witn wearisome monotony, re-
cently showed me an “agreement” he had
signed in order to become a five years’ lease-
holder from a private landlord. Among other
little things, the screed mentioned : —-
All that piece or parcel of land containing 80
acres . . . yielding and paying therefor £6O per
annum. Now these presents witness etc. etc. that
during the first two years the lessee shall clear and
grass not less than twenty-five acres of the scrub
land adjoining owned by the said lessor and that on
completion of the improvements aforesaid he (the
said lessee) shall pay to the said lessor the ad-
ditional rent of fifteen shillings per acre for the
whole of the land mentioned in this agreement.
Tenant right in improvements, I don’t
think! Tenant penalty for improvements,
I do think! And rack-rent into the bar-
gain, I do swear! .Nevertheless this intel-
ligent voter can be backed to bellow “I want
my freehold!” at the first election hereafter,
and to vigorously denounce the Labor “con-
fiscators” who want to give him the land for
the first five years free, and to reappraise it
in 25 years, carefully excluding his improve-
ments from the calculation.
If to kick, bite and scratch —to interject,
charge, accuse and rave —will put men into
N.S.W. Ministries, then Fitzparrot, Wood,
Levy, Cohen, Onslow and Wade ought to be
absolute certainties for portfolios—if the
“Liberals” ever come to power again.
The expense of collecting the Common-
wealth land tax was £17,123, including
salaries. Wade’s advisory board in con-
nection with his* wonderful scheme of land
settlement cost £28,913 to handle only 14
estates or portions of estates.
Before leaving Melbourne Jack Longstaff
laid the foundations of a fund to put a stone
over Phil May’s grave in Kensal Green,
where now only a wooden sign intimates that
the great pen-artist is below. Admirers of
May recall that they have already been
waited upon with the hat; but that money
went in setting up a brass tablet in Phil’s
native town. Bertram Mackennal is eager
to carve a stone, to take the place of the
wooden slab ; and Australia may be relied
upon to do its little bit towards the cost.
The Argus is dreadfully worried over
Senator McGregor’s decision to favor con-
tracting firms tiiat employ union labor. It
sees corruption ahead—“plain, sordid, money
graft.” But while the Argus pretends to
see that a Labor Government may be cor-
rupted by bribes from union firms, the notion
never enters its silly old head that an anti-
Labor Government may be just as conceiv-
ably bribed by an anti-union firm. And if
the latter idea is preposterous and unfair and
all the rest of it, then the idea of a Labor
Government’s corruption is also preposterous
and unfair, and mere silly prejudice on the
Argus’s part.
The Australasian, stirred up by the
sugar-workers’ strike, asks, with tears bub-
bling inside its Fat neck, what is to be the
end of it when unionists deny to non-unioi -
ists “the common rights of citizenship—the
inalienable right in a free land to work and
to live by the labor of their hands.” Union-
ists don’t deny any such thing. They only
refuse to allow themselves to work with non-
unionists —just as the Argus refuses to allow'
any other paper to join in its cable service,
unless that other paper agrees to the rules of
the ARGUS-bossed cable union. The Argus
doesn’t call that “tyranny.” It says it is
merely “business.” And the laborer has just
as much right to apply business rules to the
sale of his labor as the Argus has to the sale
of its penny dreadful or its weekly mournful.
A voice from above: —
Seen for the first time last week, N.S.W. Assembly,
with its heavily upholstered seats, looked to me like
an immense railway carriage which was whirling
through miles of sordid back yards towards Bosh
and Blither. The members strewn round had the
weary air of men on a tiresome railway journey;
and little Fitzparrot was the pest the train-traveller
meets on his unlucky days. Sitting in high glee on
the front Opposition bench, with one foot tucked
under him, in the attitude of a mischievous small
boy, he kept yapping his tiresome interjections, or
acting as honorary echo to the least decrepit lions
of the herd. In the ugly, snarling rush at the Chair
he was side by side with the furious Cohen; but in
his most excited moments there seemed to be
a trace of uncertainty in his manner. He reminded
me of the new super who hopes one day to lead the
rabble, and keeps glancing towards the concealed
stage-manager in the wings to make sure he is
doing all right.
A humane measure, providing that chil-
dren born out of wedlock should be legiti-
matised on the marriage of their parents, last
week shocked the Vic. House of Fatuous Land-
lords till it could only gasp. Members hurled
Scripture at it—the same Scripture, by the
way, which says that it is easier for a camel
to go through the needle’s eye than for a Fat-
man to enter Heaven—and asked in horror
what the Churches would say about it. This
paper doesn’t know what they would sav;
but if they declared that an innocent child
should go on bearing the stigma of bastardy
when the marriage of the parents provided
a good reason for legally removing it, then
the Churches’ opinion is entitled to even less
respect than that of the House of Fat Land-
lords.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s.. Melba Opera Co.
Royal “A Waltz Dream.”
Criterion “The Witness for the Defence.”
Adklphi “ Nick Carter, Detective.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace “The Man from Outback.”
Town Hall Antonia Dolores.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Clement L. Wragge.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.... “The Speckled Band.”
Her Majesty’s “Hamlet.”
Royal “ The Chocolate Soldier.”
King’s “ The French Spy.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
♦
“The Witness for the Defence” is an in-
teresting story, artistically rendered into
dramatic form. There are no strainings
after stage effects; no sensational “cur-
tains.” There is a dipsomaniac, who re-
frains from tearing to tatters the passion in-
duced by an impending attack of delirium
tremens, and a young woman, in whose
case—
Sorrow, like a heavy banging bell,
Once set on ringing, with his own weight goes
and who yet does not revel in grief to an
unreasonable extent. Everywhere the author
betrays knowledge of life and of the society
he depicts, and an independence of the cruder
stage conventions. Necessarily, in a play
which begins with a murder by the heroine,
and must end happily if it is to be a popular
success, there are features which do not
convince. It is impossible, for example, to
believe in Thresk. Ho is a barrister, so
obsessed by ambition mat, when his career
was beginning, he jilted Stella Ballantyne, in
order to devote himself wholly to work.
Years afterwards he dines with her and her
worthless husband in India. She shoots the
husband that night, and Thresk’s false evi-
dence saves her at the trial. He goes out
of her life again; two years pass ; she falls
in love with Richard Hazlewood. The young
man’s people have their doubts concerning
her innocence, and they ask Thresk to stay
with them in the country. And at this late
hour, the man who, two years previously,
did not hesitate to turn a murderess loose
on society, and to perjure himself in the
process, suddenly develops scruples. He
“ THE WITNESS FOR THE DEFENCE,"
AT THE SYDNEY CRT.
When Brief meets Brief, etc .
The family solicitor (Town-
send Whitling) cross-questions
Barrister Thresk, who lies
convincingly to him, and
Father Hazlewood (Plumpton
Wilson).
insists that Stella shall tell Richard of her
guilt. Stella, not unnaturally, objects.
Thresk says_ that he must, then, do it him-
self. She hints at the prejudicial effects of
a conviction for perjury on his career at the
Bar. He is amazingly reckless of consequences.
Simultaneously this man who, in his hot
youth, was cold and hard enough to abandon
Stella, is moved to ask her to throw over her
lover, and face the world with him. To para-
phrase Ibsen, successful barristers don’t do
such things.
* * * *
One may indicate Miss Ethel Irving’s
genius by negatives. In her moments of
pathos she is heart-breaking; yet violence,
rant, frenzy—the meretricious tricks of the
immemorial “star”—are foreign to her tem-
perament. She could not be exaggerated
or artificial or insincere if she tried. And
her personality and voice are the last words
in charm. Her methods being what they
are, naturalism and restraint are essential
in the rest of the cast. The soldier lover
(Warburton Gamble) is not a stagey youth
who has palpably burst into the Army List
under false pretences—in short, a flagrant
“leading juvenile”—but just such a cheery,
well-meaning, slightly fatuous young man as
the junior branch of the British Service turns
out in herds every year. Advocates like
Henry Thresk—not quite so suave and hand-
some as Stephen Ewart, a shade less dapper,
and lacking his Olympian calm in situations
that would hideously embarrass normal men
of the world, yet still, broadly speaking,
like him—pervade the Inns of Court during
term-time. Townsend Whitling presents a
likely solicitor, and Gilbert Porteous a per-
fectly-credible butler. J. P. Wilson is good
as the eccentric father, and Halliwell
Hobbes’s Ballantyne is excellent. It is, in
brief, a production in which all are praise-
worthy, and one is beyond praise.
On Saturday night the Melba Grand Opera
season opens at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
with “La Traviata.” Melba will, of course,
sustain the role of the anguished Violetta,
and John McCormack, the Irish tenor, will
be her Alfredo. On Monday and Friday
evenings, and at a Wednesday matinee, the
management will stage “Faust” (Marguerite,
Miss Axarine; Siebel, Australia's own
Eileen Castles; and Faust, Mr. Quesnel) ;
on Wednesday evening “Traviata” again;
and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings
“Samsone and Dalila.” Delilah will be
played by Mrs. Sisneros at the first per-
formance, and by Miss Voluntas Ranzenberg
at the second.
•He- * *
Mrs. X is very indignant with “Miss
Gibbs” because the shop-girl is only staying
at Her Majesty’s for one week, and she can’t
anyhow catch up the 15 performances by
which Mrs Y beat her last time the “record”-
maker was in Sydney. The fact is, “Miss
Gibbs” is only packing to fill in the gap
between Irving and Melba. Blanche Browne
still has the title part, with Bertie Wright
as her cousin from Yorkshire.
* * * *
“The Merry Widow” removes her weeds
from Sydney Theatre Royal on Friday night
next, and yields up the premises to “The
Waltz Dream.” And both are now so well
known that no more need be said about
either.
# * *
Things move so fast in “Nick Carter,
Detective,” the new Adelphi yellodrama,
that George Marlow can’t keep up with
them in less than 16 scenes. Carter is a
detective —famous, of course; all detectives
are —who has a habit of getting into tight
places, and then, when he has only three
seconds more to live, of getting out again.
He starts out to capture a gang of thieves
who have kidnapped his son, and meets with
all the excitement in the frantic rush to
reunite the family. He gets into the thieves’
den in disguise, only to be identified by a
scratch on his arm, received in an encounter
with one of the gang. He is sentenced to
die the most glorious death that the gang-
can find, but is rescued at the last moment
by a henpecked husband who knows that
Nicholas is a married man himself. The fall
through the skylight, the escape on horse-
back, and, finally, the train robbery, all
supply the thrills which the souls of the
great gods and goddesses of the Adelphi
yearn after.
Nick Carter (Cecil Mannering), the chief
of the gang (C. R. Stanford), and Timmins
(J. R. Howard) are the only male people
worth mentioning; and Ida Gresham, as
Stephania(of the gang), Ada Guildford (Mrs.
Carter —“wronged,” of course) and Lena
Langridge (Mrs. Timmins) do what is asked
of them on the other side. The staging, and
particularly the railway scene, is all right,
nc- * *
“The Old Woman Who Lives in a Shoe”
is playing matinees only at the Palace
Theatre (Sydney) these times; and when
she arrives with her family and goodness
knows how many tons of luggage on Wednes-
days and Saturdays, the language of “The
Man from Outback,” who has to remove his
traps and saddles and shearing-slieds and
things, would satisfy the most fastidious
that the Australian bushman could hold his
own against even Dill Macky’s yellow-pup
on the 12th of July.
** * *
Last Saturday the gods of Sydney Tivoli
respectfully watched Miss Louie Tracy, the
“Dapper, Dandy Boy,” dressed as a soldier,
smoke a large cigar with evident relish; and,
subsequently, they gave her their undivided
attention while she puffed at a short cutty
and walked about in the roomy garments of
the Royal Navy. Impersonator Lamberti,
'Clarke and Mostol (comedians and dancers),
and Alf Holt (mimic) supply three good
reasons why the Tivoli patron should ap-
proach the box office with four pieces of sil-
ver in his hand. Other reasons are supplied by
Sydney Bach (entertainer), Marguerite
Ismay (dancer), Fred Bluett (comedian),
and ventriloquist Carlton Max.
** * *
To-night (Thursday) and to-morrow night
are the last chances the incurable postponer
will have of hearing Joseph Blascheck and
Mildred Wrighton, now closing their season
at Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall. This city says
farewell to the bright entertainers with a
catch in its voice and a doorknob in its
throat.
** * *
Australia’s versatile old friend Inclement
Wragge, who has been in Maoriland for
some considerable time past lecturing and
exploring, will commence a series of lectures
at the Y.M.C.A. Hall next Monday evening.
The title of the first lecture is "A Voyage
through the Universe,” and the Inclement
ought to be a thoroughly qualified pilot for
the journey.
*# # *
The National Amphitheatre continues to
hold its end up in the presence of teeming
audiences, partly owing to the strivings of
Jules Garrison and his alleged Roman
Maids, partly as a result of the labors of
Jordan and Harvey, alleged Sons of Israel,
and partly by virtue of the strenuous efforts
of a number of alleged comedians. Eva
Mudge is still there; likewise the Racoons
and Capt. Winter’s dogs.
#- $ * i'rf
The Lyric, in the early part of this week,
made a worthy feature of an imported
film, “His Mother,” a sentimental drama,
new to Australia; and “also rans” worth
noting were “The Feud,” a French melo-
drama. and “Pathe’s European Gazette.”
For the mid-week change, “A Man of
Honor,” “Making Bath Bricks,” and
“Madrid and the Spanish Army” are speci-
ally mentioned. “Scenes around the Coalt
of Maoriland” was a most attractive series
at the Colonial 1 Pictures. The Colonial ”
showed “Pathe’s Australian Gazette” and
some very interesting “Scenes around Bar-
celona” ; and for the new programme “Agri-
culture by Motor” and the “Story of James
V. of Scotland” are the attractions. At the
two Colonials “appropriate solos” are given
during the evening performances.
“The Chocolate Soldier,” to hand at Mel-
bourne Royal, comes up to expectation at all
points. The music, melodious and full-
bodied, runs on grand-opera lines; the spec-
tacle is rich, the story compact, the acting
almost as good as the singing—and in that
respect expectation is exceeded. Of course,
there is nothing of broad, unrestrained
low comedy in “The Chocolate Soldier” —
no privileged funny man who “gags” as he
pleases and breaks the continuity of the
piece by introducing an irrelevant turn with
the soubrette. It is a fairly close parody
on Shaw’s “Arms and the Man,” plus chorus
and scenic trimmings. In a synopsis of the
plot a London writer said: “Only in the
first act is the musical version at all like
the play. From then onwards the libret-
tists present an imbroglio that is mainly of
their own conception.” Asa matter of fact,
the plot of Shaw’s comedy is outlined
throughout the opera. True, the sordid
manservant is omitted, the ambitious maid-
servant is converted into a flippant relative
of the family, and the polite Bulgarian
officer who searches for the fugitive hero,
appears more than once as a grotesque Cap-
tain Massakroff; but the other people, under
changed names, are contrasted as in the
original, although their characteristics are
much varied.
The note of musical success is struck by
Miss O’Connor in an early solo with a
lovely waltz refrain, which recurs in the
2nd act, and again at the close of the
3rd. Miss O’Connor has never before
looked so pretty, sung so triumphantly or
shown such aptitude for archness of expres-
sion. The lady, who was rather hard, cold
and angular in “Tom Jones,” gets near to
coquettish vivacity where it is needed in
this case, and, strangely enough, she is
weakest when she affects the lofty air of
a mock idealist. Her duets with one and
the other man are very effective. Spiridoff,
the posing and imposing tenor (Noel Flem-
ing), fills the bill in appearance and affec-
tations of manner, and brings a sweet,
chesty voice into action, whilst.the cheerful
baritone Chocolate Soldier (Leslie Gaze) re-
presents frivolity in a hurry. His style is
amateurish, but vigorous and jovial. Re-
garded as a healthy, good-humored young
singer doing his best to make things lively,
Gaze is a success. His part “goes”—not in
the right way; but no matter. He at least
gets a move on it. If he isn’t quaintly hum-
orous, he is brisk, anyhow. Miss Rita
Presano makes her mark as a contralto
singer with a refined sense of comedy in the
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cheerful chap who plays the goat,
In plain or military coat,
Is not the sort who much inspires
A maiden’s heart to high desires
Or dreams idealistic;
Yet he persuades her more than those
Who cultivate the picture pose
Of heroes that could never ue
In mortal form, on land or sea,
Where life is realistic.
And should a cneerful chap appear
When she has gone for quite a year
Without a Ci.ance to charm, or vex,
One member of the other sex,
Then, being just a woman,
She’s bound to find his vulgar laugh
More thrilling than a photograph.
For Love, in dreams, may often take
High fancy-flights; but Love, awake,
Is ever truly human.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


HUNTER STREET HOWES
WHERE THE
90/-SAC SUIT
COSTS YOU
85/6
FOR
CASH
SAC SUITS from 4 to
5 Guineas.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
from 6 Guineas.
miiui
Only Address: CORNER GEORGE and HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
character of the heavy matron; Albert Kav-
anagh has a big round voice and gay-old-
dog method for the part of the stereotyped
giddy father; Frank Wilson is an effective
Massakroff; and Miss Mabel Graham is
the bright, wicked-looking niece who pairs
off with Spiridoff the poser. Unfortunately,
Miss Graham's incidental dancing steps are
not as bright as her smile; and the same
lack of elasticity is noticeable in other legs
in other parts. The worthy orchestra may
have been rather too loud on the first night,
but for the chorus-singing, the dressing, and
the scenery by Goatcher praise goes without
qualification.
** * *
H. B. Irving, who was welcomed to Mel-
bourne by a houseful of enthusiasts at the
renovated Exhibition-street Theatre on Sat-
urday, produces a Hamlet bent upon set-
tling disputes re the sanity of the depressed
Dane. Indeed, the actor emphasises so
strongly all the points implying that the or-
phan boy of Elsinore was merely aping mega-
lomania, that we are forced to arrive at one
of two conclusions: either Hamlet was an-
ticipating pertinacious controversies that
would wrack Shakspearian professors, ex-
perts and associations undreamed of in his
day ; or he was actually half convinced that
he had a brain kink, and was putting up a
big bluff. For the rest, this is a noisier,
more angular, angrier and more inarticulate
Hamlet than lias previously been associ-
ated with the Danish throne in these parts.
When Irving is most distinct, he seems to
own a unique brogue; when least distinct,
there is no articulation at all, but a hoarse
comnlaining or accusative rumble, like the
outcry of an impassioned animal. The Irv-
ing leg, the Irving elbow, and the Irving
hair—cherished family an
eerie distinction to the Irving Hamlet, a
performance which at one moment strikes a
note of profound emotion, and at the next
Angelini , the Maestro of Melba’s Opera Co.
reminds you of a hapless praying mantis,
just fished out of the inkbottle, preening its
funereal wings. It is one of the best and
worst Hamlets Melbourne has ever seen; a
source of pricking and persistent aggrava-
tion, it leaves the critic with a laurel
wreath in one hand and a brick in the other,
and so beset with various emotions that he
will never know which he should throw.
This means that H. B. Irving’s Hamlet is a
brain stimulant and an intellectual buck-up
of high value.
Dorothea Baird, as Ophelia, is a strange,
pre-Raphaelitish lady, a creature of freakish
attitudes and fitful feeling. She is at her
best in the mad scenes, where her marked
mannerisms help her to one or two uncanny
effects, and where she often touches the
right pitch of pathos. For the rest, this per-
formance of the premier Elizabethan tragedy
is as fiat as a wall, with a few decent gar-
goyles. The ghost, by Henry Vibart, is a
handsome, melodious and well-ordered spook
who commands respect. Arthur Whitby
strikes a fair level of senility for Polonius,
the old fool with a lucid interval; and Tom
Reynolds’s First Gravedigger is an unaggress-
ively humorous creation sprinkled with
hints of Asche’s Christopher Sly the tinker.
*# * *
“Via Wireless” will present the vasty
deep in a turbulent state at the Princess’s
until to-night (Thursday), and then the
“Whip” co. will pass from Melbourne to
Adelaide and the West on its way to Eng-
land. Another co., with Miss Dorothy
Dix as a new leading lady, takes up the
Williamsonian running on Saturday, and
“The Speckled Band” will be the drama that
invites attention.
** * *
At the King’s, a short revival of “The
French Spy” is making a lurid appeal to the
unimportant. Walter Baker appears as
Captain Somers, who circumvents spies, and
explains the obvious in many conversations.
The fascinating Countess de Loriac is Miss
Frances Boss, who secures the right aristo-
cratic pallor with two or three coats or
poudre de riz. Charles Brown is an aerated
Irishman, and Arthur Styan figures as Gen-
eral Trepoff, the despondent Chief of the
Russian Police. Miss Vera Ilamee, as the
Countess Olga, is a Voice given to over-
emphasis ; while the best that can be said
for Richard Bellairs is that his Romanoff
Count possesses a good supply of animation.
** * *
At the Opera House nothing has yet ar-
rived to lessen the importance of the bright
but patchy turn of Clarke and Hamilton.
But several other people are at the end of
their tether, and will be set free to-night
(Thursday). So a considerable change of
bill is confidently expected.
** * *
The feature of “ The State Line," at
West’s, Melbourne, last Saturday, was its
big-hearted cowboy, who was a terror to the
wicked and a berruther to the weak. “The
Valley of the Nera, Spain,” wasn’t conspicu-
ously beautiful; but “A Dutch Gold Mine"
deserved a diploma for cute humor and novel
plot. Very good also was “A Romany Tra-
gedy,” in which two gipsies are slain with a
ceremony verging on pomposity.
■M * * *
“The Power of Beauty,” shown last week
at the P’ran Lyric (Vic.), had many items
of interest for the coquettish and the amor-
ous. The picture was full of secret kisses
and stolen hugs, while the chief lady-
character spent most of her time taking on
lovers as a kind of diet. Among other recent
Lyric films, “William Tell” was the most at-
tractive. The old story of the immaculate
archer was well portrayed by the Italian co.
which has figured in “Ai'da” and other pic-
tures of modern onerns.
* iti X *
In “The Speckled B iven its first
Australian trial at Adelaide Royal, the Wil-
liamson management has a winner. It is
tlmlling enough for melodrama, and clever
enough to please the critical; and thus it
rakes in everybody. Written up from a
single short Sherlock Holmes story, it has
had to be elaborated. Enid’s sister has died
mysteriously in the night, and an inquest,
held on the stage, produces nothing but sym-
pathy for the Anglo-Indian doctor, their
stepfather. Dr. Watson is ingeniously shown
as the friend of the family, and he talks
casually of Holmes. It is not till two years
later, when Enid has been compelled to take
the room her sister died in, and the same
death-heralding, creepy music has begun to
play in the night, that she flies to Holmes,
who drops in disguised, diagnoses the case
as a snake-and-ventilator trick, and beats
the “speckled band” back to where it came
from. There, being naturally annoyed, it
promptly bites Stepfather. The play is bet-
ter than the former S. Holmes drama, be-
cause it omits the love-interest which was
so unsuitable to the man. (It even dispenses
with love-making altogether. Enid gets en-
gaged to a man who does not appear, and
Watson to a girl of the same shadowy per-
suasion.) The sole cause for regret is that
the village shopkeeper, a pugnacious Metho-
dist, and Enid’s sole friend all through, has
not been allowed in at the death. He de-
served that reward for being the only in-
telligently suspicious person among a fat-
headed crowd. Cambourne plays him splen-
didly. Dorothy Dix, graceful and very
young, has little to do but look frightened,
but she does that charmingly, and rises to
the one chance of defiance that she gets.
Desmond, who does not appear till half-way
through, is a less “intense” S. Holmes than
Cuyler Hastings used to be. This is largely
the author’s doing, for Sherlock is made to
swagger humorously even in the tightest
places—which suggests that Conan Doyle
had a Yankee collaborator as dramatist.
Mervale, as the murder-planner, is the back-
bone of the play—with a make-up that should
get him hanged at sight. His is a fine study
of incipient homicidal mania, with twitching
fingers, rolling eyes, and dangerous mildness
all complete. Mackay is Dr. Watson, Athol-
wood a hypnotised butler, Leslie Victor and
Susie Vaughan have for once parts without
a smile, Holmes’s casual clients are beauti-
fully played, and the snake, real, large and
lively, causes many thrills, and completes a
great cast.
** * *
The King’s Theatre, Adelaide, has started
as a cheaper-priced rival to the Tivoli, with
Maude Mortimer and other new and old
friends in Variety. At the Tivoli itself,
Binns and Binns are delightful tricksters;
Harris and Vernon have just come in, and
Lazern is conjuring as of old. Desmond is
playing “The Silver King” at the Royal, to
Miss Irby Marshall’s Nellie Denver, Athol-
wood’s Jaikes, and Mackay’s “Spider.” The
picture shows are mostly specialising in the
Cardinal’s funeral, though the Empire has
a fine study of a lady and some wild beasts,
“Back to the Primitive.” And that remark-
able local singer, Miss Violet Paine, has
given an evening of operatic selections, in
costume. She ought to be on the opera
stage.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Sundry things that would have happened if the
two firms had continued their strife are not going
to happen now that the two are made one. The
birth of the Combine, it is said, gave the quietus to
the panto, which C. and M. were preparing for Mel-
bourne Royal’s next Christmas bill. That, however,
is not a matter for lamentation ; one panto.—at Her
Majesty’s—should suffice to feed the city which still
clings to the tradition of a Christmas annual; and
Sydney these times seems content to get its nymphs
and gnomes as an Easter offering. But the Combine
will probably turn down other expensive projects
that one or other of the firms had in view. It will
certainly in future offer foreign managers less
temptation to make an Australian tour on terms.
For instance, the terms that Oscar Asche got from
C. and M. had been previously refused by J.C.W.
Thus it was competition which gave us Asche’s
excellent productions. The same competition is re-
sponsible for some notable theatrical events just
now, and will account for a few others yet to come;
but, beyond that, the Cpmbine is thinking of new
business from a monopolist’s point of view. When
it comes to mere girl-show attractions, Australia
will be almost certain to think of the Yankee Meat
Trust.
“L.H.P.”: The Wowsers won’t like “Samson and
Delilah.” For a long time it was barred by the
English censor, and its production in 1909 at Covent
Garden was, so ’tis said, largely through Queen
Alexandra’s personal influence. Originally done at
Weimar in 1877, it found its way to the Paris
Grand Opera, and Paris had so little fault to find
with it that it has been staged over 300 times. Those
who hear it at Her Majesty’s will find the Scriptural
yarn modified by the librettist (Ferdinand Lemaire),
so that Delilah betrays Samson from the highest
patriotic motives, sacrificing her lover in the in-
terests of the Philistine State.
The Australian “dear girls’ ” late idol, Tittel
Brune, was at latest in Paris, having her song-ap-
paratus overhauled with a view to a possible grand-
opera dSbut. If all goes well, the little woman will
probably make her first bid for operatic fame in
Belasco’s “Girl of the Golden West,” the dramatic
version of which .she played hereabouts.
William Murdoch, who has been engaged as accom-
panist to Clara Butt on her forthcoming S’African
tour, originated in Bendigo, and used the Austral
Competitions as the first outlet for his talent. Next
he gained a scholarship at the Melbourne University
Conservatorium of Music, and then the Clarke
scholarship, which took him to the London Academy
of Music, where he gained fresh glories. The most
stringent t’otherside critics have been saying very
sweet things about him lately.
James Watts, a youth who promised exceptionally
well as dancer and tenor soloist when he was trying
to push his way along with J. C. Williamson’s
forces, left a while back to see if he couldn’t push
faster on the other side. Evidently he has caught
somebody’s eye, for word came by last mail that he
had been engaged to play Dame with Harry Lauder
in a forthcoming panto, production.
Like H. B. Irving, Ewart, leading man of the
Ethel Irving Co., is an English barrister.
Ballarat has revived its old desire for a Shak-
speare statue. In the boom days of 1888, or there-
abouts, some five or six hundred pounds were raised
for a local tribute to the bard’s memory ; for Balla-
rat prided itself on the culture it had received from'
Bill Holloway and Co. But the money was deposited
in the Mercantile Bank, and in the wreck of that in-
stitution a lot of the statue fund found a grave.
The rescued balance, plus accumulated interest,
amounts to £ 360; so the trustees propose to form
a Shakspeare Society, and send round the hat once
again. The baldheaded bard, in his low-cut collar
and saucer-track knickers, is a deserving subject for
a work of Australian art; but if it is to be Aus-
tralian beyond a doubt, experience shows that sub-
scribers must make that stipulation before they
drop their copper in the hat.
Ted Kalman, the music-hall comedian, blew
himself out of the world at a Melbourne hotel on
Saturday afternoon. He had recently moved on from
Sydney Tivoli to the Opera House; and nobody
seems to know what the trouble was. Down to seven
years ago Ted Kalman was Edwin Symons, seed-
merchant, of Perth.
Juan Bonaparte, who claims to be a genuine
descendant of the great Napoleon, and is admittedly
strikingly like him, has made a success in England
in a “sketch” specially written for him to go Nap
in. Now that he has proved that he can act, he is
to be given a chance in a revival of “A Royal
Divorce.”
Bert Bailey and Jules Grant (William Anderson’s
well-known general manager) have formed them-
selves into “Bailey Ltd.,” and, with a string of
robust melodramas and a suitable eo., will set out
upon an Australasian tour in November.
Randolph Bedford puts his old friend Jim Wilkin-
son into his new drama, “The Lady of the Pluck-
up.” The Pluck-up was a Purnamoota mine, and
“Big Jim” Wilkinson was in those days the driver
of the coach from Terowie to Silverton; that was in
the early ’Bo’s, just before Broken Hill was found.
Then he joined in the hurly-burly of the Barrier
silver-boom, and was one of the big men—big in
body and heart—of the great field. Afterwards he
was pearler and prospector; and two years ago,
after they had buried him under the button-grass
at the new Balfour rush in Tasmania, Bedford gave
his old adventurous friend a send-off in some fine
Bulletin verses. Now he appears in a play as
Buck Crawford, and if the character is as good as
the man, Bedford’s drama must be a success in
spots, anyhow.
“S.S.”: Clunes (Vic.) reports the curious case of
a girl of 10, who is thrown into convulsions by the
hissing of a goose. Possibly one or both parents
were actors. It certainly looks like hereditary
antipathy.
“Harrison O”: In his remarks (B. 24/8/'ll) re
slavish imitation of mummery, “0.K.” puts the ease
well from the star mime’s point of view; but what
about the general public? I, of course, admit that
when mimicry enters by the door art escapes by the
window ; but since Australian theatre-goers have the
most slender chance of observing the “creators” of
modern parts, is it not better that we should be
provided with an almost exact imitation of the
original rather than a new and, probably, indif-
ferent rendering by somebody who has not had the
chance (as most of the Fogtown “creators” have>
of hearing the author’s views as to how a part
should be played? If we cannot acquire an original,
by Anton Mauve or Corot, surely it is better that
we get a good copy rather than a brand new thing
by Nathaniel Dauber.
Many people will remember Agnes Thomas, who
was brought to Australia by old Dion Boucicault,
and subsequently acted for the J.C.W. firm. She js
now figuring in a dramatisation of Thurston’s
“Sally Bishop,” at the Prince of Wales, London,
and is looking so young that no one would charge
her with possessing a grown-up daughter. All the
same, she owns a chick who is a good deal over
seven, and is at present mumming with the Ethel
Irving Co. Eily Malyon is the lady’s name, and she
enacts those ingenue characters that just escape
being interesting.
ART AND VEGETABLES.
No man who has the interests of Art in
his composition can, after a visit to the
N. S. Wales Royal Art Society’s 1911 crop
of hardy annuals, fail to be impressed by
the fact that the recently announced short-
age of Chinese market-gardeners isn’t so in-
capable of solution as the Sydney Morning
Omnibus would have us believe. It is true,
of course, that we must have spuds; also,
some people consider onions to be the spice
of life; while cabbage is often affected by
even the intellectual. Now, all this paves
the way to do something for both Art and
vegetables, seeing that they are mutually
dependent upon each other. All such ques-
tions as Art, Kings, Betting Books, Amours,
Grand Opera, Churches, Billiard Saloons,
and Silk Stockings depend entirely upon the
public’s meals, and the discovery that there
wasn’t any horse-radish to be obtained for
love or money might entirely alter the inten-
tions of the noble patron who, at this very
moment, may be about to step forward and
give strength to the flower of Art struggling
for life in the community’s soul. Capital
might be driven out of the country in search
of turnips for its soup, and then who is
going to buy pictures? There is only one
thing to do, and it must be done at once.
In the cause of Art, those of its votaries
who can best be spared, must volunteer for
the turnip trench, or be forcibly led there.
Out of about a couple of hundred who have
done their best for the Royal Art show in
Sydney this year, The Bulletin reckons
a full half can be handed a pitchfork and a
hoe immediately. Next year another hun-
dred could get work, and so on. Thus the
passing of the Chinaman may be viewed
with satisfaction: cauliflower will be in its
usual place; and Art will be safe.
Taking this year’s show as a whole, one
cannot say that anything has been done to
raise the R. A. Society’s standard of the
past few years. The blue pencil of the
hanging committee has been a little busier
than usual, but still not busy enough; and
if the allegation is that the general level has
been bettered, a microscope will have to be
brought in to prove it. The outstanding ex-
hibits are a Longstaff portrait of Mrs. R.
Broomfield, the work of Hans Heysen, and
a batch of water-colors by B. E. Minns.
The Longstaff canvas shows the old know-
ledge of the craft, but it is not amongst the
artist’s best liners. Heysen collects all the
limelight with a big oil bushscape and a
panel of charming little water-colors. Most
attention will be given his “Hauling Tim-
ber” (oil), which has been purchased by the
trustees of the National Gallery. Unques-
tionably it is a fine study of the bush atmo-
sphere, and 200 guineas wasn’t too much
recompense in these times of piping pros-
perity. The only other canvas purchased
by the trustees was a black-and-white head,
characteristically gnarled and furrowed, by
Dattilo-Rubbo. It was the pick of a section
particularly weak. James A. Crisp s one
black-and-white effort was not up to " The
Apple Cart,” which he drove _ into the
National Gallery last year. Minns, while
not at liis best, helps the show along with a
string of gay water-colors; but neither Nor-
man Carter nor J. S. Watkins has anything
so good as at the last show. Watkins s
“Red Kimono” doesn’t get where he evi-
dently wants to go with a large canvas and
a sizeable assortment of warmed-up colors;
and Carter could have a hatful of ‘ Chintz
Sofas” for his last year’s girl in mauve. As
for Watkins’s portrait of Acting-Premier
Holman, one of its virtues is that it can be
labelled with somebody else’s name if Hol-
man declines to accept the responsibility.
E. W. Christmas gets the eye with a good
conception of Maoriland’s great, sombre
Alps; and Portia Geach, with a carefully-
handled Kaffir girl. Lister Lister serves up
the customary large slices of bush country
and copious quantities of Pacific, without
which no R.A. menu would be complete.
His main canvas, depicting pioneering work
on a rough selection, is good Lister. Dat-
tilo-Rubbo’s big oil, representing seven man-
ual grafters stopped at Circular Quay on
their way to toil, is too palpably an arrange-
ment of the studio. It would have been
better to have let tnose m.g.’s get to their
respective jobs. Evelyn Chapman’s portraits
are well painted, but it is difficult to dis-
cover the reason for taking up so much
good space with Jas. R. Jackson’s “Halcyon
Days,” unless the hanging committee has a
grudge against him. This year, again, Miss
Margaret R. MacPherson can have a place
among the honorably-mentioned for her still-
life representations. Arthur W. Chappie’s
“End of a Spring Day.” a couple of Gus-
tave Barnes’s water-colors. Jas. A. Crisp's
magpie brand of poultry, Chas. H. Barrie’s
poster-design pastel, and some of B. O.
Jones’s oils, are hereby discharged with a
certificate of character. The rest are re-
manded. But. undoubtedly, the necessity of
running a vegetable farm must not be over-
looked. The society has quite a number of
neople who could be doing something useful,
like rearing spuds, and spuds have got to
be reared somehow.
The only question is: Who is to be
turned into the turnip field? The Bulletin,
to avoid a scene, suggests that lots be
drawn.
A CHANCE FOR ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Victoria is smitten with a vegetable famine. The
scarcity follows on a phenomenally wet season. —News
item.
Come forth, oh splendid Romeo,
Who fearfully have lurked
In corners dim where red beers flow,
And who, since days of long ago,
Have neither spun nor worked!
The danger most you fear has gone—
There is a turnip famine on !
Step into light of day again,
“The greatest Hamlet, sir,
That ever came within the ken
Of keen and cultivated men.”
You yet may make a stir.
The stage awaits you. Fear no foe—
Tomatoes have declined to grow !
Oh, Wilfrid Denvers unsurpassed,
And Ingomars divine,
From stages driven by the blast
Of carrots red, in anger cast;
Othello's superfine—
Why cower in dim, suburban bars
With tubers dear as motor cars?
Petruchio and Milky White
And Surfaces whose wit
Made gay the longest winter night—
Awake, arise, assert your right
To be supremely “It” !
A vegetable famine ! Lo,
No ammunition has the foe!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


For the Man on the hand.
ĥ
“Orient” Riding Breeches, 14|6
READY XO WEAR.
WE have made Riding- Breeches a careful study, and can thoroughly
recommend our “Orient” Ready Made Riding Breeches as illus-
trated. They are specially built for comforr. when riding, and pro-
nounced by experienced horsemen to be unequalled for easiness of fit and
comfort. To be bad in Drab color or White Canton
li deskin, odorless, full cut with strapped knees. In all sizes.
Also close fitting, strapped knees.
AH sizes
Geelong Saddle Twist Tweed, Grey or Drab, full cut, not strapped
All sizes
Bedford Cord, full cut or close fitting, not strapped.
All sizes
14/6
12[6
21/-
21/-
ALL STEPPING EXTRA.
SENT CARRIAGE PAID.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FIVE BOYS ESCAPE CROUP.
“During the winter months my five boys were
constantly attacked with colds and croup,” says
Mrs. H. Beanland, “Dutton Lee,” Howitt Street,
Ballarat, Vic. “I tried all sorts of medicines for
them, but Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy was the
only one that would ward off these attacks. It
cured each of my five children. I have used dozens
of bottles of this remedy, and within a quarter of
an hour after starting to give it, I have always been
able to break up an attack of croup.”*
Gentleman Bill created a stir in the Sports’ Club
Room the other Friday evening. He had never worn
a moustache, but this time he had a full-grown
military “mo” that converted him from mediocrity
to fame. It was a handsome affair, that moustache
of Bill’s. “Where’d you get it, Bill?” “Take it
off, Willie!” “How did you manage it?” were the
questions that were hurled at Bill as he walked into
the club-room. A reporter, however, got him into a
corner and asked him all about it, and Bill told him on
the quiet that he had used a few doses of Capillarine ;
and his beautiful moustache bore ample and highly
satisfactory testimony to its effectiveness. Bill said,
“I bought it at Craig and Aitken’s, r>s4 George
Street, Sydney, and it cost me half a guinea.”*
APOLOGY.
The Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
v. Australian Workers’ Union.
WE, The Australian Workers’ Union, hereby
publicly Apologise to The Daily Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd., and its Directors and
Conductors, for having printed to the order ol a
customer a Leaflet attributing the political advocacy
of “The Daily Telegraph” in the recent Referendum
Campaign to grossly corrupt motives. v* e n ?"
place it on record that we have no sympathy with
the defamatory statements contained in the leaflet
complained of, and hereby admit that there never was
any foundation for making the same ; and in considera-
tion of The Daily Newspaper Co., Ltd., foregoing its
claim for damages and discontinuing this action, we
(The Australian Workers’ Union) hereby agree t
publish, at our own expense, this apology m sue
papers, in such conspicuous places therein, as in
Daily Newspaper Co., Ltd., shall direct, and will ais
pay such costs and expenses as between. Attorney an
Client as The Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co., iaa->
has been put to in the matter.
(Signed) THOS. WHITE,
Acting President.
Australian Workers’ union.
Dated this 18th day of August, 1911.
SOCIETY
WHERE WOMAN MANES HER
PRESENCE FELT.
Mrs. Suburbia after a day’s shopping catches
the same tram as the business man —and fays her
penny fare.
“Melb ”: Another new Chinese cafe! The
Hongkong, in Little Bourke-street. Ihe
building looks entirely new, and as flash as
they make ’em. This is the third new and
gaudy Chinese cafe within a year. First
the Pekin, next the Canton, now the Hong-
kong. White trash must give these places
ton S 1 When Chow meetTcreek,
the tug-o’-war. I Haven’t been in yet to ask
for a half-guinea plate of shark-fin, with
bird-nest sauce, because, for one thing, there
has to be 24 hours’ notice—l presume to catch
the shark.
“Button-stick” on a military matter: —
“C.” pours a wild volley into “Acting Private”
in the argument as to whether Australia’s army should
pad the weary hoof or be hoisted up on a horse;
but he overshoots the mark. He says with a scorn-
ful sniff that an all-mounted army is impossible, be-
cause it couldn’t be fed. He argues that the army
would be reduced to carving a hind leg off its moke
for dinner, and that no army could tackle the trans-
port problem for all-mounted troops. He quotes
S’Africa; but he says nothing about the Boer army
there. That was a solid mounted army, and I don’t
think it ever had to go on shorter rations than the
Britisher. Of course the Boers were in their own
country, and had supplies stocked up. But wouldn’t
that apply equally here? And the Boers managed
to keep their transport arrangements going in some
miraculous fashion, in spite of the dislocations
caused by defeats and hurried scoots. Perhaps De
Wet might be persuaded to take on the job of
Quartermaster-General, and give us some wrinkles
on how to feed the brute —man and quadruped. He
did quite a lot of things that the text-books rule
out as utterly preposterous; and he didn’t seem to
sweat much over it. either.
Melbourne’s organ of the uppali classes is
exceedingly annoyed with a Prahran district
policeman and the local magistrates who
back him up in his scandalous habit of sum-
moning motor-car drivers. Recently this
dangerous official and enemy of Sassiety
“pulled” the State Gov.’s chauffeur for doing
a sprint along Tooralc-road, a thoroughfare
which ought to be regarded as a playground
for the motah classes. Gov. and Lady Ful-
ler happened to be riding in the car when it
broke the law; but there have been cases
when the chauffeurs of the A r ery Nicest were
summoned for driving their own friends at
a furious rate, thus bringing the name of the
influential owner of the car into notoriety.
In order to put a stop to this vulgarising of
a superior pastime, Norman Bayles, M.L.A.,
who moves in the Best Circles, has intro-
duced a Bill providing that any unauthor-
ised person who uses another person’s motah
shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding
£2O or a year’s imprisonment. Perhaps
when some common adventurer is languish-
ing in gaol for 12 months for unlawfully
using N. Bayles’s car, N. Bayles and the
rest of the Nicest may feel better —it will be
a sort of vengeance upon the class (or no-
class ) to which the annoying policeman
belongs.
* * * *
It isn’t only the rag-shop girl who is given
the choice between the virtuous existence, cold
and colorless as a miserable wage pittance can
make it, and the sparkle of life procurable
only in her case by the other kind of exist-
ence. The girl with the greatest temptation
is probably the waitress in the tea and re-
freshment rooms, where the young bloods and
the old crocks talk “joy-rides,” theatres,
week-ends on the Mountains, and all the
other dangers that Virtue is heiress to each
day and every night. There are hundreds
of these girls in the
big Commonwealth
cities whose wages
range from 7s. 6d. a
week upward—n o t
too much upward—
and their hours linger
between 58 and 60
per working week.
Out of their few shil-
lings these girls are
expected by Snuffle-
dom to board them-
selves, dress “respect-
ably,” and be content
with their lot, or,
rather, little. If one
should break away
and snatch some of
the pleasure and gai-
ety of life by the only
means the sweater
leaves open to her,
Snutiledom knows no
uncharitableness too
severe for her “wan-
tonness,” no point of
view too unsympathe-
tic for her “wicked-
ness.” But Snuffle-
dom never rises in its
wrath to denounce
the cause of it all; it
did not even rise
when, as happened in
Sydney a few days
ago, a sweater, who
worked a 17-y ea r-
old girl 83J hours
a week, with no half-holiday, and paid her
7s. fid., was fined jive shillings!
* * * *
The law is a serious-minded animal which
jokes with difficulty, and mostly without in-
tention ; wherefore it recently listened stolidly
for several hours while a gent, one argued
at great length that a certain farmer had
not behaved as a farmer should. This far-
mer had been tossed bv a neighbor’s bull, and
was suing for damages, and tne defendant’s
chief plea was that the plaintiff’s “mode of
warning the bull off his premises caused it
irritation, and led to its being put in a cor-
ner from which it had no escape, wherefore
it was obliged to use its natural resources,
but only in the way of self-defence.” The
non-legal jury wasn’t so impressed by this
beautiful guff as it might have been, and
curtly remarked, “Damages, £115.”
FRIENDS.
" Well, anyhow, Major Smith-Jones had four dances with me, and only one with you,!"
“ But you seem to forget, dear, the dance was a charity affair!”
Years ago, Spencer-street, Melbourne, op-
posite the patched-up railway station, used
to be a sailors’ haunt, and the intending
train traveller used to cannon off groups of
yarning men from the wind-jammers in the
river. Then the Metropolitan Board of
Works wrenched itself loose from its rented
offices in Collins-street, and took possession
of the fine old building, while the sea-dogs
rolled down the hill with £lO,OOO in their
breeches pockets, and anchored themselves
with a foundation-stone on a new site, close
to the wharf, presented by the Harbor
Trust. Melbourne, thereabouts, is not very
firm on its feet; hence the new Home
has split from roof to basement, and is sink-
ing on its foundations. “Well, crack me
plates if ever I thought I’d sink ashore!”
says the son of Shiver-Me-Timbers, A. 8.,
looking up at the damage. All hands expect
shortly to be ordered to the financial pumps.
“Mallarapoonie,” re Westralia’s biggest
and deadest engineer :
Westralia hasn’t done much to honor the memory
of her dead engineer, O’Connor, by piling up the bald
and somewhat incongruous combination of bronze
and granite in the back yard of the shabby Harbor
Trust office at Fremantle. The eingy of the Big
Man isn’t a thing of beauty, anyhow, and its posi-
tion is worse. The figure faces out through a gap
between the sooty railway sheds, across a sombre ex-
panse of wharf floored with condemned railway
sleepers, to the garbage-strewn harbor, with its
cluster of coal hulks in the middle distance. Be-
hind it is the frowsiness of one of the oldest sea-
ports in Australia. On its right are the railway
yards; to the left the scrapheaps of an abandoned
foundry. This afternoon the funnel of a stinking
collier is belching smoke in its face. The grave,
thoughtful eyes (which you can notice if you mind
and don’t step backward off the wharf) seem to gaze
out across the harbor (which is really only his second-
greatest work) to the north-west ocean. Behind the
monument and the Trust office is Fremantle’s ridicu-
lous fort. This structure can’t be said to “grin,”
neither does it “bristle” in the manner of forts I
have read about. Australia’s enemies probably
won’t notice it when they come, and it wouldn’t
have been noticed in this paragraph except that
C. Y. O’Connor’s statue is in a line between it and
the open sea —that part of the ocean under the lee
of Rottnest where a hostile battleship might reason-
ably be expected to drop anchor if it wanted to
argue with Fremantle’s fort. Probablv it wouldn’t
want to do so, but, if one ever does, it will be a dead-
sure thing that the hostile gunners will use the
white granite pedestal of O’Connor’s statue for a
sighter to train their guns, and that won’t be nice
for the pedestal. Rather than put O’Connor up amid
such dismal surroundings, with the foul smoke of
colliers in his face, and a prospect of being some day
shot at, it would have looked much better to have
erected him on the scene of his greatest and most
successful labors —near the gigantic scheme that
finally worried him to death. Out of sheer decency
Westralia might have put him wlmre he would have
most wished —-on the clean, quiet hills above Mundar-
ing weir; there to gaze toward remote Kalgoorlie,
the wondrous desert-city, sprawling on its thirsty,
sun-smitten plain, that praises the great man’s name
with every drop of water it consumes.
The story of the “strained relations” :
The beginning goes back some distance —from the
time when the G.-G. wanted a steamer to be char-
tered that he might go to Papua, and the Common-
wealth Government refused to charter, but offered
him the more economical trip by regular steamer.
Then the departed Gov.-General wanted an expedi-
tion de luxe, and that was refused again in favor of
economical but quite adequate transport. After
that the G.-G. made an appointment with a Minister
at Sydney Government House for a certain hour, and
overlooked it or something, and left the Minister to
cool his heels on the mat, so to speak. The Minister
left a telephone address for two hours later, and
when the G.-G. rang him up at the time appointed,
he replied that he could make no other appointment
for that day. The G.-G. conducted a Coronation
levee in Melbourne, and not one Federal Minister
attended. He protested, and then he got facts —un-
pleasant facts. He was reminded that the Govern-
ment had done its duty in fitly and loyally recognis-
ing the Coronation; that, finding that the G.-G. did
not intend to give a State dinner in honor of the
Coronation, it had spent the Commonwealth’s money
-—maybe £ 2000—in giving one at which the G.-G.
sat at the head of the table. After that cold douche,
diplomatic relations broke off, and when the G.-G.
left Australia no Ministers attended to be frozen in
their Cabinet capacities. The dailies report that
one of them did visit the ship that bore the retiring
official away from the Best Country; but, if so, it
was only an expression of the young man’s kindness
of heart.
Chief Justice Stout’s report to the Maori-
laud Government on charges laid against
Captain Smith, Resident Commissioner of
the Cook Islands, which was placed before
the Parliament a few days ago, practically
says “Rubbish !” to them all. “In a small
community like Raratonga” (126 whites and
2620 natives), says Stout, “ it is not_ sur-
prising to find a difference of opinion
amongst the inhabitants. The climate also
invites misunderstandings.... If one were to
read a novel, say, of Jane Austen, Anthony
Trollope or J. M. Barrie, he would observe
that the same class of misunderstandings ap-
peared in villages in England and Scotland,
and, no doubt, arise there to-day.” Finally,
the Judge dismisses the Commissioner with
a round of applause for his administration,
which, he says, has brought about “exceeding
prosperity.” A number of people who orig-
inated the disturbance which ended in Stout,
C.J.,beingappointed Royal Commissioner are,
however, not satisfied, on the ground that
the inquiry was not a public inquiry, and
that Stout shows signs of prejudice; but
Stout no doubt knew what he was talking
about when he said that he could the better
acquire the fullest information by an in-
quiry that was not onen to the public. The
charge of prejudice was to be expected in
the ordinary course of business. It is hard
to please everybody these times—and every-
body doesn’t deserve to be pleased, anyhow.
“VOTE OF (HIC) THANKSH.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Shareholder: 1 think it is a shame to pi ss a
vote of thanks to the staff year alter year, and pay
them as miserably as we do.
Mr. Murray Smith: I do not know that we ireat
our clerks miserably.
The Shareholder: i was thinking that bank cierks
are paid miserably, as a rule.
Mr. Murray Smith: 1• do not agree with that,
either.
—Bank of Victoria shareholders’ meeting.
Serf of the ledger and pen !
Slave of the desk and ink!
Justice has come to you, then,
Ere you’ve had time to think.
Balance at dead of night—
But be glad, ye slaves of the banks!
Money lias seen the Right—
Pays you with “votes of thanks.”
Money, that makes some men !
Money that eats men, too !
Rest in your sweating den —
Money, that plays the Jew ;
Yet at the core is just
(They who deny it are cranks) ;
You, who are down in the dust,
Are paid with a “vote of thanks” !
Here is a splendid scheme.
When the fatted butcher calls
Pay him with bits of an opium dream,
Flag-flapping, and loyal squalls.
Pay the grocer with loud hoorays,
Though he dwindle in brawn and shanks,
And the parson, who loudly for stipend brays,
Feed him with “votes of thanks.”
To the bank that keeps your account
(If to keep your account one’s game)
Pay-in bits of “The Sermon on the Mount” —
But draw cheques just the same.
And, once you’ve an overdraft,
You’ve joined the Monied Ranks;
And though they object till they’re blind and daft,
Pay with “a vote of thanks.”
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Rich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’s ~
put
in (
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes.
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the " Pure Food Act, 1908,'*
by Lever Brothers Limited,
Sydney. N.S.W
No. 57.
m
Hunyadl
i Janos |
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
Bottled at the Springs
i Used the World over i
I Drink on arising a wineglassful for A
' INDIGESTION and 1
BILIOUSNESS
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, Geo rue and King Streets, Sydney, is the
proper place to go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 ; Satur-
day close at 1 o’clock.*
&
I
New Modes in
Two Garment Suits
WE originated this Trade and each year have improved
the standard, reaching the climax in these present styles
that we now make advance announcement of.
They are smartly cut, very much improved in pattern
range, whilst for style and coolness these Coat and Trouser
Suits have no rival.
We offer you choice of a rare lot of Greys—light, middle
and dark Greys—and a very charming Brown —say which
shade you prefer. In ordering by post, don't omit to tell us
your chest, waist and inside leg measurement.
Price 25/-
Postage 1 /-; Interstate 1/6 extra.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George St., Sydney
“Some clergymen, I regret to say, are not
wholly free of responsibility in connection
with ‘the increase of divorce cases,” said a
Victorian Judge the other day. “They marry
practically anvone who asics them cheap
and often’ appears to be their business prin-
ciple” :
The minister whose charge is small
Can waste no time, it’s plain ;
He breathes a friendly word to all,
And hopes you’ll come again.
He must get very frequently
The little fee he earns.
So shall his simple motto be:
“Small profits, quick returns!”
“Historicus” : J. F. Hogan, of London, is
wrong in his allegation (B. 24/8/T1) that,
“since the death of James Bonwick, there has
been nobody in London officially charged
with the duty of looking after precious pieces
of paper”—such as the Captain Cook manu-
scripts, which were auctioned at Sotheby’s
last month. As a fact, a well-known London
firm of experts is officially employed for this
purpose by the Public Library_ trustees. The
agent’s duty is to inspect anything of the sort
that is offered anywhere in the United King-
dom. and, if the matter is urgent, to cable
for instructions. This was duly done in
regard to the Cook MSS., but, as they con-
sisted of only a few scattered sheets, it was
not thought worth while, at this end, to bid
for them. David Scott Mitchell (he of the
Library) left the cash for such purchases—
a matter of £70,000.
* * * *
Batchelor, of the External Affairs De-
partment, is home again, so nresumably the
Boon Gooev matter will be settled at once:
and it is to be hoped the Minister won’t
talk of settling it “without sentiment,” as
the Acting-Minister did. As a matter of
fact, the White Australia law is the most
sentimental work of legislation amongst tlie
statutes. It expresses the heart’s desire of
the white population. Findley’s talk of ad-
ministering it without sentiment was, there-
fore, as insincere as Scotchbyterian Balfour's
talk of God having joined Hop Boon Gooey
to his wife —a wife whom he had brought to
Australia under contract to send her back to
China in six months. Meanwhile the facts
of the case suggest to every honestly-senti-
mental White Australian a right and proper
settlement. A well-to-do Chow —a produce
merchant —has a business in Geelong, and a
wife who must go back to Hongkong.' Every
sentimental fibre in the Aliens Restriction
Act would be shocked if she were allowed to
remain here, and add Austral-Chinese chil-
dren to her husband’s other produce. Hence
she must go, and if God has joined them toge-
ther. as Balfour, M.L.C.. declares, her hus-
band will of course go with her.
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
S HE: “I thought you always knew I was as
good as engaged to a man?”
H E: “ But , hang it
all , I thought I
was the
man! ”
THE WHITE
WOMAN’S
BURDEN.
MRS. GEE: “She’s
a terrible worry ,
but her troubles
are only skin-
deep."
MISS FEE:
“Freckles!”
Mr. Yung Liang Hwang, Chinese Consul-
General, made an important pronouncement
in Melbourne the other night—a pronounce-
ment eagerly seized upon by the morning
dailies. “I believe,” said Y. L. Hwang,
“that the doctrine of Christ will be of great
benefit to humanity.” Obviously China is
awakening. It may be, however, that there
is a smack of Oriental irony in the observa-
tion. Note, anyway, that Yung Hwang uses
the future tense, meaning, perhaps, that the
doctrine will be of great benefit to humanity
somewhere in the time to come, when the Fat
interests are outed and Christianity has a
chance of operating.
“Nix” : Now that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has made up its mind to be a foster-
father to Binghi, let me
draw attention to a scheme
which the squatters in the
nor’-west of W.A. have been
and still are working. They
are legally permitted. to
“sign on” a nigger for 12
months, and, during that
time, if he runs away, he
can be pursued and forcibly
brought back to Simon
Legree. In return, black
brother receives, or, rather,
he is supposed to receive, a
good ration allowance (in-
cluding tobacco), two suits
of clothes, and medicine
when he is sick ; but in these
nor’-west parts the average
squatter would not dream of
bankrupting himself for such
extravagances. The “sign-
ing on,” which is optional
< sometimes) with the nig.,
may be performed before a
magistrate, police constable,
or J. Pay; and the J. Pay
is generally a neighbor who
would be greatly distressed
to see a poor abo. unable to
make up his mind as to
what was best for his
own welfare. Not long ago
one aristocrat, after waiting
until a mounted policeman
had departed, “siened on” 12
bucks for a year, in the sym-
pathetic presence of a bro-
ther broadacres. And, if I
know anything about the
aristocrat, it wasn’t because
he was concerned about in-
conveniencing the trooper
that he passed the job on to
somebody else.
The N.S.W. Government’s tentative pro-
posal to set aside a sum for a public crema-
torium in Sydney begat a mild howl of oppo-
sition. One version was that, on Adelaide’s
showing, the thing was useless, only eight
cremations having taken place in S.A. in as
many years, and the incinerator had conse-
quently been closed. As a matter of fact —-
assuming that the curator of the Adelaide
cemetery states the fact —there have been no
less than 46 burnings since 1903, and the
practice is surely, if slowly, gaining favor.
Only the other day the body of the locally
weli-known G. S. Aldridge was so disposed
of. Centuries-old insanitary prejudice will
take a lot of undermining; but even on the
Adelaide figures, Sydney, with three times
the other city’s population, is justified in
making a start, and thus educating the public
up to cheaper and less sliuddersome methods
of body-disposal.
A N.S.W. Su-
preme Court ap-
peal from a Jay
Pay decision re-
cently showed the
cussedness of the
law, as well as
the bumblelieaded-
ness of the magis-
trate. One Helan-
der had been con-
victed by a Bench,
consisting of a
Police Magistrate
and three common
or bush J’s.P., of
fraudulent appro-
priation of certain
goods. The goods
had been jettisoned
by a vessel in dis-
tress in the Bellin-
ger River, and
were discovered
some time after by
Ilelander, who
dived and brought
them up. Some
were claimed and
given up to their
owners; but as
those not claimed
were kept by the
diver as salvage,
the villain was
prosecuted for lar-
ceny. Of course a
nolle prosequi was
entered bv the At-
torney - General.
Then the desper-
ately-eager police
charged the man
with fraudulent
appropriation, and
the Bene h con-
victed. Fo r t un-
ate Iy, Ilelander
was in a position
to take the matter
to the Full Court,
which promptly
(piashed the conviction, on various grounds
of law and merit. Then came the applica-
tion on behalf of Helander, who asked that
his costs should be paid by the blunderers
who had put him to all the expense and
worry; but Bring, J., said that, as he had
heard that the conviction was by a majority
vote of the magistrates’ Bench, if the Court
gave an order for costs “it would be punish-
ing a member of the Bench who held a cor-
rect view of the law.” So costs were re-
fused, and punishment is thus meted out to
a man who was the victim of what the
Full Court said in effect was a grossly stuoid
mistake, and an asinine decision against the
law, which had been clearly pointed out by
Ilelander’s legal adviser. Holman should hurry
up and appoint the long-delayed law.„commis-
sion, and one of its jobs should be to consider
whether, in a case of this kind, an action
for compensation should not lie against the
Crown. Meantime, presumably the ridicu-
lous J’s.P. who were responsible for the
blunder will resign. If they don’t do
it voluntarily, Holman should give them
his cordial assistance.
The Oldest Inhabitant among the ruins:
Two of the oldest houses in Sydney have just
been turned over to the knacker, in connection with
the big scheme for improving Lower George-street.
In the ’4o’s Henry Ferris, merchant, and Jules Jou-
bert, wine merchant, hung out their signs in one of
these places ; in the other was -printed Sydney’s
pioneer Mercantile Journal, and alongside was
the pub kept by Samuel Thornton, whose son, the
evergreen George, was Mayor in 1857. In the mid-
’6o’s both houses passed over to Chinese merchants,
and one at least of the original two business shingles
is up still —“On Chong,” though no doubt the real
On Chong, if he ever existed, disappeared many years
ago.
“EYES RIGHT!”
Three Maoriland boys have the taint of
the gaol about them to-day as a result of the
addle-brained advice given them by the anti-
defence lunatics. The Maoriland WORKER
touches those lunatics on the raw thus: —
Some people can become quite brave and even
ferocious when their share of fighting is the scatter-
ing of ink.
Exactly!
Victoria’s Foods Standards Committee has
collided with the Weary Cabinet, and has
recoiled with a stiff back and a determina-
tion to have its own way in the end. Re-
cently the committee learned that buttei
without preservative of any sort was being
placed on the London market from Den-
mark and America, and it didn't see why
Australia should use what others find un-
necessary. Before recommending anything
sudden, however, it tested 000 samples ofc
cowfat sold for local consumption, and
found half of them to be prime samples with-
out preservative. Knowing, further, that
preservatives of nearly all descriptions are
more or less harmful, and are mostly fraud-
ulent, in that they are used to conceal
some defect or rascality, the committee
recommended the Cabinet to pass the neces-
sary regulation. But the Cabinet wouldn t
do anything of the sort. It put its opinion
against the knowledge of experts, specially
appointed to do special work; and it kept
the door open for the unclean, the incompe-
tent, and the dishonest buttermaker. But
the committee isn’t lying down, and will
open up the matter at the next inter-State
conference on pure foods. And, by that time,
the Weary Cabinet may have become the
Worn-out Cabinet.
* * * *
A queer case has just been heard in Ade-
laide. A country constable had a complaint
from two young men that “Yendinna Jack”
had robbed their camp, and was in general a
bad nigger. The Law was busy or some-
thing, so it deputed the two complainants to
make an arrest, and they went to do it.
When they came across their mao there was
a struggle, one or two shots were fired, and
Jack was dropped with a wound in the leg
and taken off in a cart. It didn’t seem much
of a wound; nevertheless, Jack died on the
way. For this both the men and the con-
stable were tried for murder. They pleaded that
the wound was inflicted in self-defence, and
that death was really due to blackfellow funk.
The Chief Justice said the constable’s be-
havior was altogether illegal, but the shoot-
ing could not be murder, and he left it to the
jury to say what else it was. And since the
jjury was evidently in a fog, it chanced it, and
merely said Not Guilty.
Victoria’s quaint Attorney-General Dun
Brown was never suspected of being a humor-
ist until a week ago, and then he earned
the title by doing Maxwell. It was in the
matter of Laura Fox, who, after a particu-
larly exhaustive inquiry by the Coroner, had
been committed for trial on a charge of mur-
der-constructive murder. Being unable to
hire a barrister for her defence, she nomin-
ated lawyer Maxwell, who would be paid the
usual £7'7s. fee by the Crown. Brown, how-
ever, refused to accept her nomination, as
Maxwell had, in a previous case, acted in a
high-handed way of his own. Even assuming
Maxwell was in the wrong, his selection as
counsel by Laura Fox was a matter with
which Brown had nothing whatever to do.
Brown apparently recognised this in a day
or so, as he presently “accepted” Laura Fox’s
nomination of Maxwell on condition that the
lawyer promised to appear for her at the
proper time and place. Maxwell declined to
be bound by any conditions whatever, where-
upon Brown cogitated a while, and then
“accepted” the nomination unconditionally.
When the case came on, with Maxwell ap-
pearing for Laura Fox, Brown played his
trump card —a curt intimation by the Crown
Prosecutor that “no presentment had been
filed.” So Laura Fox goes free, Maxwell
loses his poor little fee, and Attorney-General
Dry Brown sits back and no doubt enjoys the
joke. And Laura Fox probably enjoys it too.
Whether the public should view it in the
same frivolous way is another matter.
* * * *
Some interesting: facts
about the height of ocean
waves and the depth of
ocean troughs have been
gathered in lately by a
couple of Australian lin-
ers. The Orsova had a
nasty bucketing in the
Bight, when the waves
reached up and clawed
lumps off the captain's
bridge, which is (50ft.
above sea-level. They
also playfully snatched
overboard a windlass
cover, the cook’s galley,
and a miscellaneous lot
of iron piping and fit-
tings. As to the depth
of the hole in the water,
there is the report of the
Marine Court on the
damage done to the Catk-
in passing through Port
Phillip Heads. She had
a clear lift, under her
keel in crossing the
shallowest part of the Rip bank, yet she fell
into a hole which was deep enough to allow
her to bump the bottom. The Court found
no blame attaching to anyone except Mr.
Dave Jones, and it’s no good reprimanding
him or trying to take away his ticket.


The Department has knowledge
of a still more heartless case, in /
which a girl of eight has to rise 11
at 5.30 a.m., milk five cows, feed 111
calves, go to school, return and \L
milk the cows again, and then try W
and puzzle through her home 'y
lessons.
It was a fact that a beast affected with
tuberculosis had been killed at the abat-
toirs. It was a fact that a portion of the
diseased animal had been cut away, and
the remainder allowed to go out for
human consumption. The local inspector,
when pressed, admitted that such was
the case. _
fi'b
Moanf-
if >Mdo«n e l-, r|
1 lr> s<? ho,lhr s y o a do
Ih rvje^t-.
r _
VAfere y ou to,
|hi 2v »tv? 1 Stl', S«7€. S*«4
(0\
police inte /licence I*7 Me I bow mej
V// Jotin d°f> ; — )s lie
' js re Tendin' io be cjrynK,
Si rn&n pretend in
't© 1?€ de&,<3t , i diAHhO
he (Acting-Premier Watt) believed
that the Labor party performed a useful
function in politics. In Germany there
was a fish-breeding establishment where
carp were bred for food. In order that
the carp should not be too fat perch
were placed in the same pool to keep
the carp on the move. The Eabor party 5
were the perch.
TiTe EW:- HbVs ver y We ") \r„
Willie, bw'T you & 100 K &T •tre.
r»7o w v/€ 2\J $7 K .
VEOETaBLE famine.
Indeed, so extreme has been the
scarcity—more especially of cabbages
and cauliflowers—during the last few
weeks that it has been found necessary
to look elsewhere for supplies where-
with to make good the shortage in
local crops.
T "p
JricKly .Uir'
JV« ol i+rotr if}* Wf»n e^^es
of-
ot^cr I?o<die^
Tws ’ Tb‘i Ci>}>We
to “be. ciis^S^' oW S.
1
130K«.d ’ - .
hf 3 *
Our- s r out'
tiow' it »S sort' op
' £ <
-for tffe .c2s+io 17 of'
-fe br.ciOY hv-
THE SOUTHERN VIEW.


GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE
A. Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearing's.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Diamonds
Reduced
Enormously.
WHY?
2 Special White
Diamonds and 1
Sapphire, £5/10/-
Selected Diamond*
and X Sapphire,
£l2/12/-
S Choice Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires,
£lO/10/-
We took on some time ago a Sole Agency calling for an immense output, and to live up to it we
are selling Diamonds at merely a broker’s commission on the actual landed cost.
They are shown loose, and set in rings and jewellery generally, and we feel sure that our new
departure will pay us, owing to the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures ~|
Cash. J
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
* 23 825 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Stingaree”: Recently witnessed a will-
ing “go” between a black-banded water snake and
ia green tree snake on the bank of a narrow creek.
In a smother of dust, twigs and leaves, the reptiles
were coiling and uncoiling with lightning rapidity,
advancing and retreating, and snapping with the
greatest fury. The tree snake was evidently getting
the better of the scrap, for it was engaged in cutting
off the retreat of its antagonist towards the creek.
At last the submarine snake adopted fresh tactics,
and, seizing the other, dragged him to the bank,
rolled with him into the water, and made desperate
efforts to lug him under the surface. He would
have managed it too, if I hadn’t introduced a
boulder weighing lewt. into the argument, which
thereupon ended in a dead heat.
IGNORANCE.
TOMMY: “Say, dad, who was Shy lock? ”
DAD: “ What! Don't know who Shy lock was! What do I send you to Sunday-school
for? Go and read your Bible.”
“Gecko” : Saw a fast greyhound flush a
fox from the cap of a kopje the other day, and start
down hill after him. I was just going to hoist
the numbers up as they reached a large gum,
when Keynard threw a kind of half twister, grabbed
the firm earth at the base of the tree with his fore-
claws, and hurled his after part Catherine-wheel-like
into position on the O.P. side of the butt. The dog
went straight on for about a mile, and, when he re-
turned to weigh in, he looked as glum as a Mayor
who had been jambed behind the door when Corona-
tion honors were ladled out.
“Eddyson” : This is how Mrs. Jerry got
married. Mrs. Jerry lived a mile and a half from
Tollbar, on the road to the Nine Mines. Cows kept
Mrs. Jerry. I don’t know how many cows there
were, but never was the blocky little woman en-
tirely free from the bovine animal. When she wasn’t
busy milking cows, or feeding cows, driving cows to
the paddock, or driving cows home, attending to the
complaints of ailing cows, or delivering milk to her
customers at Tollbar and Nine Mines —carrying it
with an old-fashioned wooden contrivance and two
pails—she was scalding pans, or cleaning up the
dairy or the cowyard. Mrs. Jerry was a widow, and
had three children, and my private opinion is that
she was the woman who never went to bed. How
she found time for courtship cannot be imagined,
but it was made known at Tollbar and Nine Mines
that she was to be married to Pisht, stoker at the
Grand Slam, on a given date. Meanwhile the
widow continued her zealous attendance on. cow, and
her excursions as sole milk-supply of two districts.
The wedding day came, the hour struck. Pisht, a
foreign person with the intellectual outlook of a
hen, and the genial expression of a large quantity
of dough, was available, waiting in the church with
several friends and an assortment of residents. Mrs.
Jerry was not on hand. Fifteen weary minutes
passed, and then came a rattling of cans in the
church porch, and presently the bonny bride ap-
peared, bearing her customary burden of cow extract,
as if interrupted in the middle of a round. She
set down her pails in the aisle, was well and truly
married to Pisht, and then incontinently resumed her
task of scattering milk around the township. When
I left, a year later, Pisht was a stoker, but not
practising, and cows were still keeping Mrs. Pisht.
♦ * * *
“M&ysboy”: After two hours’ wrangle it
came to this. (1) The boss bet the mail-coach
driver his pub—lock, stock and pewter—that the
main bone in a horse’s leg cannot be set, because a
prad’s bones contain oil instead of marrow, and that
an apparent knit is brought about by a formation
of gristle binding the broken parts. (2) Coachy is
prepared to move in as soon as he can produce the
proof that the boss is talking through his neck.
Has anybody got the conclusive evidence handy ?
* * * *
“J.V.SVIc.” : . I think the best-known abor-
iginal identity must surely have been the late
Paddy Perkins. He was known from Oharleville in
the west to Brisbane, and from Gympie to miles past
the N. S. Wales border. Paddy once sang “Annie
Laurie” to Melba, while she was passing through
Toowoomba by mail train. She let him off with a
sovereign, which he immediately sold for a guinea.
It was at Jimbour, lately resumed by the Queens-
land Government for closer settlement, that Paddy
with a black (buck) mate was sent out by the
manager to do some ringbarking. The manager
gave them a fortnight’s tucker, and said he would
be around in the evening. However, he did not
go; and at the end of a fortnight Paddy and Co.
came trooping in and asked for more tucker. “Why,”
asked the boss, “haven’t you finished?” “Finished,”
says Paddy,; “by cripes, we never started. You
never come round show us where to plurry well start
from!” What remains of Paddy lies near Dalby,
under a headstone raised by public subscription.
“T.V.T.” : It was a blazing hot day, and
the 130-ton haystack at Itillglassey was being
topped. One young husky, from whom the sweat
was dropping profusely, was making frantic efforts
to land his final half-dozen sheaves. The last ap-
peared to have him beat. Time after time he hurled
it up, only to see it come tumbling back to his feet
again. “Him good hand at throwin’ sheaf, Jacky!”
remarked the boss sarcastically, as he gazed at the
perspiring pitcher. “Huh,” grunted the nig, “mine
bin tinkit dat pfeller better at trowin’ plurry
boomerang.”
REFLECTIONS.
HOPELESS BILL (soliloquising): “ Ah! It's wonderful, wonderful how little we knew !”
GINGER RAFFERTY: “ Yes, yes! You and me might be sillin’ on this 'ere spot, Ginger,
healthy and well one day-and next be in gaol!"
“Iver Lau” : I want to sool the brave and
gallant Thomas Waddell on to “Mr. Justice Ocky”
(B. 20/7/’ll), for saying poisonous snakes don’t
climb. Last summer, in Dunoon, near Lismore
(N.S.W.), I saw 4ft. of black streak climbing a large
blue gum. He didn’t climb round the tree, but went
up one side —if a round tree can have a side —with
the usual wriggle. Years ago, in the same locality,
I chased a black snake into a loquat tree, and
chucked him under the chin with a prop. He
didn’t seem to mind it, either; anyhow, he didn’t
lodge any complaint at the inquest.
• * * *
“Ken Hill”: The episode related by
“Berkeley” (B. 29/6/’ll), re the snake that used to
get on the soft side of a cow for a drink, is not
unique by any means. Writer calls to mind one
Jones—-William his other name was —an influential
cow cocky of Gippsland (S.A.), who was obliged,
owing to the scarcity of labor, to utilise snakes of
the same species as “Berkeley’s.” Of course they
had to be first mesmerised. Jones, fortunately, pos-
sessed the power to do this. I myself tested several
of the cows after the milking operation, and found
them as dry as Houston Reid’s dog or the bed of the
Cotter.
* « * *
“Gecko” : The kookaburra is most cautious
in his attack on all species of reptiles. One Jack
that I trained in the bush to take grubs, lizards, and
small snakes, from my hand, always gripped the
wriggler by the Scruff. Tried him several times by
holding a bandy-bandy or “whip” by the head, but
he wouldn’t budge from his perch until I reversed
matters, and let the head dangle. Then Johnny
swooped and took the titbit. In winter, snakes
were not on the menu, and he seemed to blame me.
One day I bluffed him with a sausage. He belted it
tour times against the fence, and then swallowed it
doubtfully. I couldn’t fool him again. Probably
because I forgot to put the bones in.
“Geofred”: “Feenix” (B. 3/S/’ll) says
canaries don’t mind humans handling their eggs.
Wrong. The hen bird generally has no objection,
but unless “Feenix” has his lady-canary’s husband
put into a separate cage when the missus is setting,
he’d better not try handling the eggs. “Feenix”
says he’s been breeding ’naries for 15 years. I go
10 on that. Like “Feenix,” I used to make it a prac-
tice of purloining the eggs, one by one, and putting
them back when three eggs were laid, ready for in-
cubation. But every time I did this, directly his
better half’s back was turned, Mr. ’Nary would bang
the eggs on to the floor. I tried four different pairs
of birds at this game, and, as a result, got 12
broken eggs. As for “Grand Slam’s” emus (also
B. S/8/’ll), they must be different emus to those
in most other parts of ’Stralia. Up at Forbes last week,
some friends took me on an alleged fox-hunt. We
saw 5521$ rabbits, one kangaroo, no foxes, two
emus and one emu’s cottage. In the cottage, after
we had shoved Ma Emu away, were nine eggs. I
took two of them and left seven. Three days after,
when going back into Forbes, we chased Mrs. Emu
off her nest again, and there were still seven eggs
there, and she, apparently, hadn’t noticed that we
had been doing a subtraction sum on the premises.
Robert Salmon, of Boolcoomatta station
(S.A.), has been telling the Adelaide dailies that
the best way to keep dingoes from your sheep is to
breed kangaroos to keep them amused. He had
noticed that the wild dog always passes by sick
sheep for strong and active ones, so he assumed
that the brute is a real sportsman and likes to be
given a run for his meat; and this the ’roo cer-
tainly gives him. So the sheep are left alone. It
sounds steep, but that is Salmon’s theory ; and there
are the kangaroos, carefully preserved on Boolcoo-
matta, as evidence in the case.
* * * *
“Gip” forwards a winter day from the
highlands of Monaro (N.S.W.) :
Six inches of snow, still dry and powdery. The
sun shines warmly in a grey-blue sky. We plougn
a track through the whiteness, over the close-meeting
rocks of the creek, and up into the range. A score
or so of puzzled weaners, struggling upward, oblig-
ingly make a track for us. Here and there we
drop a fox bait, but we draw no trail. Cold? Not
a bit! We are shedding weight perceptibly as we
reach the top, and one of us is eating snow. A
wallaby leaps up out of one gully, crosses the sum-
mit, and scurries down into another. Here, foxes’
tracks are thick. By a white-crowned tussock a
rabbit sits motionless, ears flattened, body crouched.
Bang goes a gun, and startles a fox out of a near-by
bush. Another shot, and the dogs are after him,
diving and rolling, until suddenly they strike a
drift and disappear. We turn to assist them, only
to take laugh-raising headers ourselves. Reynard
leaps lightly for the scrub, and is seen no more.
The birds, strangely tamed, barely notice us. Robin
redbreasts are everywhere—wee, glowing things hop-
ping on the snow’s crust. Magpies scratch on
thawed patches; crows, cawing dismally, fly low.
A bronze-wing sits disheartened on a bough, and a
wounded wood-duck rises dejectedly and flies onward.
Parrots, full-fed, chatter bravely as they flash from
briar to briar, choosing, like epicures, the reddi s‘
berries. Here and there bunny has shovelled the
snow from his door, and left dainty tracks heading
tucker wards, but most of the family, lies snuggled
up in the home burrow. We return in fine spirits,
but with a very light bag—four rabbits to two
guns! The sun is spreading pink and gold and
faintest mauve upon the glittering hills, and the
snow grows crisp again, under the icy fingers of the
evening wind.
* it * *
THE ROUSEABOUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the Rouseabout!
The Generally Useful!
A mere social microbe
Of no status ..liatever.
The first and the last!
Impartial, dexterous, eternal.
Through 20 hours and some seconds
I swing the edged axe
At the roots of the ironbark,
Reducing them to kindling.
I groom, milk, and keep clean the cow-lawn.
Boots, knives, pots, wash-ups, yards, verandahs,
And the übiquitous outhouse
Are mine—so to, speak.
Anon,
Dumbfounded at reproof ;
Meek, contrite and solemn ;
A looselipped humility
iPersonified.
Again,
•Cyclonic, skilful, gentlemanly, aeroplanicseven-
things-at-once—
’“Yessir!” “Yessum !”
When whistled to,
Unhesitating as to which dog is called.
Intuitive as thought-reader ;
Expert as physiognomist;
Abnormally willing,
And
Equally obliging.
Smiling idiotically in the teeth of provocation ;
Acting Marconigraphically in the midst of whirling
D—, etc.
On Saturday,
Apologetic, statuefaced—
A back-curved atom in dungarees,
Waiting for 15 bob with guilty face —
That’s me,
The Rouseabout 1
VICTORIA.
MORPHIA.
THE MILKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jim Merit came to Raffle’s door.
He drove a spotted cow before,
And close behind, cross-eyed and plain,
Behold his sister, Mary Jane.
Said he to Raffle: “You’re the gent
What printed this advertisement?”
He showed an ad. the rest among:
“A Milker Wanted. Must be Young.”
“I am,” the farmer answered him.
A sigh broke from the breast of Jim :
“I couldn’t make it out nohow —
What do you want, a wife or cow?
“If it’s a cow, well, here is Floss—
Best milker in the country, boss.
If it’s a wife, me sister there’s
The finest milker anywheres.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


Hotel
A us tra Ha
TARIFF :
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
51-
JUST TO ADVERTISE!!
A Sixpenny Bottle of CALDWELL’S INK
and a Half-Cuinea 14-carat Iridium
Tipped Twin-Feed Fountain Pen for C /
If you can’t obtain locally, send Postal
Note direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
ħ
Carters
>ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired—Out ol
Sorts —Have No Appetite.
CARTER’S LITTLE LITER PILLS
will put you rif?lit in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
PLASMON OATS
Scotland’s Best —" Enormously increased
in food value by the addition of Plasmon._
4 Minutes Boiling only.
— Lancet.
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: 5& 7, Barrack St,, Bydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Barcoo”: “Calafanc” (B. 29/6/M 1) is
advised that what he takes to be green, blue or
pinkish stains in the sheep’s overcoat only occur
when vegetation is particularly abundant. When
next he goes robbing Mary’s little lamb of its
blanket, let him take a microscope along and more
closely inspect the apparent stain, and he will dis-
cover a colony of minute insects too small to be seen
by the unaided eye.
“Cyl”: “Klinker” (B. 29/6/M1) tells a
yarn of a methodical marine engineer. We have one
on our ship who has been trained with a gauge. If
he cuts a piece of paper the gauge must go on it.
So much has this gauge business become a habit
with him, that the other day at tea, when asking the
messroom boy for bread, he passed the gauge for the
youth to cut it by.
EXTRAVAGANCE.
OLD GENT: “ What! Begging again! What’d you do with that threepence I gave you
yesterday?”
DRIFTING DAN: “ Well, you see, sir , after I'd treated meself ter a champagne supper at
Paris 'Ouse an' tipped the waiter, there wasn’t much of it left, sir.”
“Gecko”: There are yellow snakes sure
enough—yellow as Bro. Dill Macky’s kindred evil.
Killed three of them last summer at Manilla
(N.S.W.), where they are fairly numerous. But
they were all females, the male of the species being"
leaden-colored, with rufous stripes from throat to
vent. Haven’t heard anybody announce the attend-
ance of the black crawler, sprinkled irregularly with
blobs like .wattle blossom. Would the butler or the
rouseabout or somebody kindly yell out the name, so
that we can all hear?
“Alaric”: “C.0.D.” (B. 3/8/T1) wants
to know why common geranium scares Hades out of
snakes. It doesn’t; it no more gives them the “icy
heart” than a Yellow Pup meeting in Sydney does.
The only snake I have ever seen on our verandah
came out of a box of geraniums. Again, I know of
a tiger snake that took up his abode in a bed of
geraniums for a week, though there was plenty of
other cover available, and in all probability he
would be there yet if he hadn’t met the business-end
of a spade.
NOCTURNE.
(By a Post-Impressionist.)
“Causeway”: Poison-Cart Bill had been
“sinking” the proceeds of months of driving the
rabbit ’bus, and he was loaded to the nines by the
time he cannoned through the last swing-door, zig-
zagged across the road, and subsided gloriously on a
garbage heap. Here the flies, centipedes, alligators
and other insects disported themselves on his face,
and played hopscotch on his neck, until a bull-ant
rolled up his sleeves and tore into Bill’s ear. Where-
upon that usually tolerant person rose and snorted:
“That settles it! Now, you’ll all have to get off!”
“M.A.R.” (from a Gippsland camp) : Are
the bolts of Jove visible? Awhile ago, this neigh-
borhood, for five or six miles round, was frightened
'out of its bunk by the most thunderous crash that
will be heard this side of the Last Trump. In due
time it crawled from beneath the bed, and went out
to investigate. There was a strange odor abroad un-
like anything that had ever struck my hose before.
The sky was clear, and bore no trace of clouds or
other “secret places of thunder.” But, 50 yards from
my house, a hundred feet of big box gum had been
torn from its roots, shredded to fragments, and
strewn over the landscape. A big slice of the
stricken giant was deposited at the front door, and
other substantial trifles had been hurled over the
house —which was on higher ground than the tree—
overshooting it by a good 30 yards. The tree was
not burnt or charred in the least. Later, a large
meteoric stone was found at the foot of the hill
right below the scene of the tragedy. No one saw
that stone biff the tree, certainly, but the circum-
stantial evidence is strong enough to convict it.
* * * *
“A.Y.A.”: “Billy Bluegum” (B. 10/8/T1)
probably lets his patriotism run away with him.
Three years spent amidst the mosquitoes, crocs., and
semi-civilised pagans of S. America, convinced
me that Australia does not possess the king bird-
mimic. The true king is the American mocking-
bird—l forget his native name, and, anyway,
’twould loosen the linotype’s teeth to try to spell
it. Not only does he imitate feathered fliers, but he
is a perfect mimic of savage beasts, and On top of
that he is a reptile slaughterer.
* * * *
“Boswell” : Re “Mallarapoonie’s” query
as to the effect of eating the flesh of poisoned
animals. A body poisoned by strychnine is per-
meated throughout, and becomes simply a larger
bait than the original. Arsenic endures while ever
a bone of the victim remains. At a poison
tank on Bringagee station, Murrumbidgee River
(N.S.W.), during the rabbit war of 1890, a pile of
bunny’s bleaching bones accumulated. Four years
afterwards, when the water-poisoning business had
long been in liquidation, five valuable draught
horses of the station made their way to the said
boneyard. They licked the bones, tasted salt, and
licked some more. There were five dead horses on
Bringagee on the following day. Phosphorus
“poisoning,” which is more a burning out of the
stomach, does not have the same virulent after-
effects ; but, all the same, deaths from consuming
bunny killed in this way are not unknown. I
think in all cases the latest recipe of Wade, V.C.,
is the safest, viz., to “fling the bait back in their
faces.”
“Chink”: “Tiaki’s” note on the white-
eye (or tauhou) in Maoriland (B. 27/7/’ll), prompts
me to recall the early history of the little sprites,
so far as Jew Zealand is concerned. The first time
they were sighted there was in the winter of 1856,
when, one morning, the lighthouse-keeper on Dog
Island, in Foveaux Strait, found scores of them
lying dead in the lighthouse gallery. Evidently
they had arrived in the night, or early in the morn-
ing, and had dashed themselves against the lantern.
They must have come from Australia, and had
crossed 1000 miles of ocean before sighting land.
What impelled the small fowl to tackle such an en-
terprise passes comprehension. Members of the flock
that survived the stiff journey settled in the southern
part of Maoriland, and, like the family of old Ham,
the son of Noah, bred exceeding great. Although
they had crossed the 1000 miles of water —no doubt
involuntarily—the visitors meditated hard and long
before they would tackle the 20 or 30 miles of water,
in Cook Strait, separating the North and South
Islands. It was in the ’6o’s before their arrival up
North was simultaneously recorded by Walter Buller
in Wellington, and a Maori mailman up Waikanai
way. The Maoris welcomed the tauhou, i.e., stranger,
with enthusiasm, and they show their appreciation by
establishing him as a staple dish.
* # * *
“Tiaki” : Plunger is a sure cure for pre-
judices, as I have found out at various times cn
various wanderings in Maoriland. I’ve been glad
to welcome morepork toasted on a spit, and octopus
boiled with the centre of the nikau palm (Areca
sapida) as vegetable. Was marooned once on a
mangrove island for two days, foodless. First feed
was roasted spuds dipped in wild honey. Have also
indulged in “kotero”—potatoes steeped in water until
decayed, and then made into cakes and baked.
“Kaanga pirau” (rotten corn)—maize steeped in
water until it alarms the neighborhood—will, when
boiled, prove very satisfying—if there is, nothing
else to be had. Have had to do my best, too, with
crayfish steeped in fresh water (koura mara), ripe
shark, raw sea-eggs in their shell, raw fish, and the
white grub (Prinopulus reticularis) found in de-
cayed wood. This last, when served raw, is like
rich cream, and I know many whites who are very
fond of the dish, but won’t admit it. Roasted, the
grubs are a cross between pop-corn and shrimps.
Still, many of the above dishes are a circumstance
to the stews you can get in Auckland restaurants.
* * * *
“Obix”: Another emu has been gathered
unto his fathers, from his late residence at Cook
Park, Orange (N.S.W.). Like his partner, who pre-
deceased him some six months ago, his old curiosity
shop was full of marvels. To wit: Four pennies, 6
halfpennies, nine 23 in. nails, 5 marbles, 1 pump con-
nection, 1 umbrella ferule, 1 large key, 1 clock
wheel 2|in. in diameter, 2 collar studs, 1 safety-pin,
2 staples, 3 washers, 3 coat buttons, 24 pieces of
china, and a large pin which was found embedded m
the liver. That settled it.
» * * *
“Buzzard”: No man will ever find his
soul so close against Mother Nature’s kind old
breast as when he feels the exquisite tremor caused
by a tiny wild bird sitting on his finger or hand.
It has happened to me twice on the top of Mount
Pitt (Norfolk Island), and the bird was the wife of
the blue wren. Her shy eyes haunt me still.
“Yalgun”: That Bulletin par concern-
ing the youiig lady who found a mouse in a pie re-
minds me that, during the 1903 drought, while eat-
ing a piece of tinned sausage, my teeth came into
collision with a dog’s tooth. The accuracy of my
diagnosis was vouched for by a butcher and a vet.,
and my deduction that the remainder of the animal
was in the entrfie met with their entire approval. I
have never eaten imported mullock since.
* * * *
“Pick” : A haystack may be a somewhat
tardy bonfire, but if “The Haek”(B. 27/7/’il)wants to
know what conflagration can win the donkey race, it
is a burning sheepfold. At Waterloo station, Monaro
(N.S.W.), an old yard was accidentally fired by a
shepherd trying to burn off barley-grass, and the ac-
cumulated manure smouldered for 18 months before
burning itself out.
A SPORTING CHANCE.
THE PERSON: “Well, anyway,
there’s one gamble that you
parsons take a hand in.”
THE PARSON: “Oh, my dear sir!"
THE PERSON: “No kid about it—a lot of you
blokes live on matrimony.”
MY MORNING NOSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(With apologies to Grant. Ilervey.)
In the morning I awaken
Feeling very sick and shaken;
And my hat hangs on the gas-jet—smeared with
grease it is and old;
In the dew-time
Comes a blue time
When my headpiece sing's like blazes as my mem-
ories unfold!
Yea, my head is fat and tender
As a bloated moneylender
After I have swung triumphant where the blonde
peroxide glows;
’Tis a sad time,
And a bad time,
W hen the glass reveals the horror of my freshly-
painted Nosel
From my window hot and flustered,
With my Nose all newly-lustred,
I lean out and hear the wild-fowl sing their morning
hymn to me !
From my place there,
With my face there,
I observe the turnips yelping in a nervous minor
key!
But the spud that singeth sweetest
Is a Peach ! ah ! Spud that greetest
Me with Sankey and with Moody while the dawn-lift
upward goes,
Thou art clever!
They can never
Understand who hate hysterics and a brightly-painted
Nose!
Nose Triumphant! Nose of Glory !
Red thou art! (Some might say gory!)
But the Nose that flashes where the Great
Souls are—
Whisky’s dower—
Marks the hour
When the buds blow up like thunder and the boiled
owl flies afar!
Spuds and Turnips! one regretful
Song will make me hot and fretful!
Sing me one of Harry Lauder’s! Play it on the
garden hose !
Now, you nettles !
Bang your petals !
Sing me something sweet and dew lilce—something
that will cool my Nose!
Yet and yet— (This hesitation
Won’t escape your observation!
Something’s very tender’s coming! . . . Right away !
the line is clear!)
She, my star-maid
(Murphy’s barmaid),
Said to me, “Oh, don’t be silly! Do go home now,
there’s a dear!”
Who has loved has got full measure —•
Some there are who spill the treasure —
Others leave quite half a pewter—-that the wand’ring
beerhound knows !
Just a woman,
Vain and human—
And the extra beer she gave me helped to paint my
morning Nose!
Wasted beers of careless rapture
Come no more for me to capture—
Wasted bens! My screaming garden has no more to
say to me!
Though the Rose’s
Mouth uncloses,
Comes from it no timely sermon on the virtue of
Cold Tea!
And the wattle with its banner
Greets me with no gay, “How’s Anna?
Seen young Birdie Goldtop lately? Lily says she’s
down at Joe’s!”
Lo! the tulip
Curls its dewlip !
It won’t even say “How goes it?” when it sights my
morning Nose!
In the morning, lo! I waken
After I’ve been soundly shaken!
Hot my hat hangs on the gas-jet—smeared with
grease it is and old;
But I care not
And I swear not
If the garden rrlls “Hole’s Anna?” and I still retain
some gold !
Yea, it was a time of splendor!
When that barmaid’s up I’ll send her
Word that, like a boa-constrictor, I tracked homeward
to repose;
And the dawn-lift —■
That cold yawn-lift,
Which conveys her to the beer-pump will reveal my
waiting Nose !
N.S.W.
GRANT O. LORD.


OUR RUDE FOREFATHERS.
By listening to Men of Fat.
On Empire Day, 1 fancied that
Old England was the Empire's Hub,
And we the Lioness's Cub;
But now it seems these things are fables;
At least, according to the Cables,
The Lioness is on the spree —
The Hub is on the jamboree !
When us a sugar strike upsets,
We do not need fixed bayonets
We get some arbitrators able
To fix it up around a table.
We do not grab each other's throttles.
We do not hurl brickbats or bottles.
And can it be, despite Bruce Smith,
That British culture is a myth ?
We do not slash or use the boot
T o settle up an old dispute;
And when perchance we disagree
We don’t call out the cavalry.
Are these the tactics that we need
To be of British Bulldog Breed ?
Are these the things that we must dp
T o show that we are British, too ?
When Revolution unafraid
Is building up his barricade,
And Britain's not so safe as we,
Whither is Capital to flee ?
1 would not be so much surprised
If to this country civilised
Old England sends her surplus cash,
In fear the Hub will come to smash.
£
00
z
AHA.


No Household
Should ever be without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment; a reliable remedy for cuts,
bruises, aches, mins, rheumatism and lumbago.
Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
THE FINEST THING ON EARTH.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy
is absolutely the finest thing on earth for colic, pains
in the stomach and diarrhoea,” says Mr. G. H. Hodg-
son, of Wanganui, N.Z. “It will cure every time.
No one is subject to more violent attacks of diarrhoea
than myself, but I have never known Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy to fail to cure
me.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
20th Century Moleskin.
The Best for Hard Wear.
Registered Trade Mark.
((WARRANTED PURE COTTON?))
4-
£
See that the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Carments can be obtained at all Storekeepers.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Adelaide Register roused
the indignation of ex-Under
Sec. Boothby (uncle of nov-
elist Guy) by killing him in
a paragraph last week. The
amende was made next day,
but ruffled feelings were not
altogether smoothed. Long-
ago the Advertiser inserted
a premature obituary of
Sammy Raphael, who in
those days was continually
creating trouble in the Ade-
laide Council. Raphael in-
dignantly expostulated with
editor Jeff Stow, and in
next issue appeared a con-
tradiction beginning: “We
regret that the paragraph
inserted yesterday concern-
ing the death of Mr. Coun-
cillor Raphael was not
true.” The laughter lasted for the rest of
the councillor's life.
About some ancient inhabitants: —
A recent par. concerning the late J. D. Browne,
of Liverpool (N.S.W.), and his connection with the
Marquis of Sligo, has unearthed a shipload of people
who ought to be on drinking terms with the Peerage.
The Liverpool man, who died the other day, aged
82, was the grandson of a man who, coming from
the East India Co.’s service, got one of the earliest
land-grants in N.S.W. That first Browne came to
Sydney from Calcutta with a retinue of nigger ser-
vants ; but he had to send them back-—which shows
that there were dreadful persons (Governors and
such-like) who objected to Ram Bux as an immi-
grant even before the days of the Labor party. (It
happened about 1816.) But though Browne I. had
to do without R. Bux, he put up with the place
himself, and left many Brownes behind him. A
still-living grandson in N. S. Wales is W. J.
Browne, aged 84 ; and F. W. Browne (Wright,
Heaton and Co.) and Spencer Browne (Brisbane
Courier) belong to the fourth generation. The
land granted to Browne I. was in the Illawarra. At
Appin he built a half-way house to stop at when
driving from Sydney, and this place, Oaklands, is
now the property of F. W. Browne. The old place
has a half-mile frontage of oak-trees, planted over
80 years ago.
A. C. Macdonald, founder of the Geo-
graphical Society of Victoria, belongs to a
family of 10 whose ages aggregate 770
years. It is 73 years since a death occurred
in the family.
According to London Opinion, G.-G. Den-
man’s father-in-law, Lord Cowdray, the con-
tractor, was so delighted when the young
man got the job that he straightway doubled
the official screw of £lO,OOO a year.
Webb Adams, who died at Norfolk Is-
land the other dav, was the last child born
on Pitcairn Island in 1850 —the year when
the Bounty mutineers and their descendants
were removed to Norfolk Island.
“The Spout”: Among the “Liberal” sup-
porters on Wade’s platform at Gunnedah, a
few nights before the by-election, were
Messrs. Swindle, Crook and Done. Miss
Representation was,also present, in the dis-
guise of the ex-Premier.
July 24 of next year will be the 50th anni-
versary of the day on which McDouall
Stuart, the first man to cross the continent
in a direct line rrom Adelaide to the Indian
Ocean, planted his flag on the shores of Van
Diemen’s Gulf, and marked a tree. The tree
was, however, completely destroyed by a bush
fire recently, even the roots being burnt; and
the people of Darwin are raising a fund to
put a permanent memorial on the site.
Stuart made his triumphant re-entry into
Adelaide on the day that Howitt’s rescue
party reached the city en route for Mel-
bourne with the remains of Burke and
Wills. The latter’s marked tree at Inna-
mincka is, by the way, decaying rapidly.
R- J. Needham, Chief Inspector of Stock
in S.A., has crossed over, after getting a
very wide Australian experience. He was
in Fiji in the cannibal days, growing cotton
before the British occupation. He was a
pioneer pastoralisti in Western Queensland,
and the leader of a Northern Territory ex-
pedition which established and stocked New-
castle Waters and other stations. But he
did not fancy the Territory’s prospects, and
became a Government official 30 years ago.
Like so many other prominent South Aus-
tralians, Needham was the son of a parson.
Left the Inky Way for good at Dunedin
(M.L.), the other day, Henry E. Muir, of
Otago Daily Times. Muir was mixed up
with printers’ ink from his infancy. Back
in 1873 he was one of four who founded
the Clutlia Leader. Later he leased and
eventually became editor of the Timaru
Evening Mail, and at various subsequent
times edited the Ashburton Mail, Ashburton
Guardian, and Dunedin Globe. His long
press life produced a large hoard of valuable
experience. The pressman’s worry is that
no bank will honor a cheque drawn on that
account.
A case of three-card trickery on board the
Grantala, communicated by wireless to the
Sydney police, broke down on investigation,
the alleged robber satisfying the Law that
lie was only showing his companion the way
it was done. It recalls the horror with
which, long ago, some A.S.N. passengers wit-
nessed a portly Queensland Premier, George
Thorn, collecting half-crowns from a fellow-
traveller by means of the same simple de-
vice. The traveller persisted, but George
won every time, half a crown a try. It was
only after the dupe had left the boat at
Maryborough and the horrified passengers
were scattered that the man who had been
taken down put his hand in his pocket and
found all the half crowns. The trickster
had played still another game of sleight-of-
hand.
BY ANY OTHER NAME—
"Who's the stout lady that's looking daggers at us? ”
"Oh, that's not a lady—that's my wife."
Dr. James Wharton Cox, just dead in
Sydney at 52, was the eldest son of Dr. J.
C. Cox, one of the men who made the
a.M.P. Society, and great-grandson of Pay-
master Cox. of the “Rum” Corps, who
superintended the making of the road over
the Blue Mountains.
OMINOUS.
SMALLGOODSMAN ( to new arrival): “Sausages ,
ma'am. I’ll be glad if you'll give me a
trial. Trade's pretty bad. I had a good
many customers when I first started, but
most of them's dead now."
The Bulletin’s Abo. page lost an inter-
esting contributor the other day, when some
mysterious thing went wrong with the brain-
works of W. S. Dr&ffin, headmaster of the
South Gundagai (N.S.W.) public school, and a
rifle-shot ended a useful life. Draffin (“Billy
Bluegum”) was a stalwart Australian, a
devoted husband and father, an excellent
teacher, and a good friend. Donald Fraser
(“Jimmie-Pannikin”), who was his inspector
for years, says he was “one of the whitest
Out-backers I ever met—a fine fellow of
boundless energy, bracing optimism and tem-
perate habits” ; and his passing-out, at the
muzzle-end of his own rifle, is a grim
puzzle.
George Aldridge, just dead in Adelaide at
04, had seen much of Australia since he
went to the Northern Territory in 1868 with
Goyder’s survey party. He was there when
the mining boom broke out, and made money
at Sandy Creek and Woolwonga. Tom Horn
was with him then; also brother “.Jim” Al-
dridge, well known since as the Richmond
Park breeder of racehorses. Afterwards
George tried auctioneering and brewing and
other things, but “found” himself at last as
a sharebroker; he was president of the Stock
Exchange of Adelaide from 1889 to 1903,
which included the Wild days of both Broken
Hill and Kalgoorlie booms. Aldridge, his for-
mer partner and brother-in-law Theodore
Bruce, and “Jim” Dick made one of Ade-
laide’s best-known group of stout friends.
Death has called for all three of them this
year.
Field-Marshal Onslow provided one of the
humorous items in the N.S.W. Opposition’s
scena of last week, entitled by the dailies
“A House in Chaos; or Chosen by Trick.”
After Speaker Willis had seated himself on
the box seat, the tall, thin “Liberal,” look-
ing very peaked after his soprano solos of
the morning, was listening wretchedly to
Cohen gasping on a question of privilege,
when Laborite Kelly made some remark.
The hero of a hundred tea-fights sprang up
as if he had been bitten by a concealed Boer.
“Mr. Speaker,” he shrilled, “he called me a
blackguard!” A shriek went up that dazed
the unhappy man. One of his own side,
grinning broadly, whispered something in his
ear. and as the Colonel fell back hurriedly,
Kelly was heard explaining that he had said
“graveyard,” not “blackguard.”
Dubbo (N.S.W.) has produced something
of a record—G. H. Taylor, the president of
its Mechanics’ Institute, was the other day
re-elected for bis 38th year of unbroken ser-
vice.
“Tiaki,” about our Maori brother-in-law:
Tahi Kaka, the Maori boy, who admired the dex-
terity with which the legalised murderer pinioned
his (Kaka's) limbs
before pulling the
trig ger reminds
me of some other
instances o f my
brown fri e n d’s
stoicism. Tupota-
hi, a chief, at the
Orakau pa fight,
rushed out with
the remnant of his
tribe and charged
through the white
soldiery. A lml-
1e t broke his
shoulder; but Tu-
potahi grabbed the
useless and dang-
ling arm, thrust
the fingers be -
tween his teeth,
and carried the
limb in this man-
ner for miles.
After camping out
i n swamps an d
other comfortable
places, he succeed-
ed in getting ins
wing fixed up. He
lived the span.
Hetaraka Repa
(about 1845, and
before my time)
got a bullet which
ran the wlio I e
length of the fe-
mur. and lodged
in the lumbar
muscles. The mis-
sile ripped right
through from knee
t o back. Tupo
didn’t call up the
Red Cross people
or the “sisters.”
He spent the rest
of the night in a
drenching rain,
sneaking round his
enemy’s fort, look-
ing for a chance
to get even. I
knew a Maori lad
with whom I had
often played bil-
liards. When the
result of a game
was no longer in
doubt, we would
say “Kua mutu
ia.” (It is finish-
ed.) I saw him
when consumption
of the throat had
him. He gripped
my hand for fully
a minute, and a ghastly smile formed over his
features as he recalled and whispered the old “Kua
mutu ia.”
“Ginger” : I enter Dawes, of Koo-wee-rup
(Vic.), for the Champion Sires’ Stakes of
Australia. Dawes’s family-tree already has
37 olive branches. The male parent is a
village settler by occupation, and a follower
of Voliva by choice. North Pakenliam, in
the same part of the country, has three
families that go beyond a score. Koo-wee-
rup, in the blacks’ language, signifies a
basket of blackfish. It may, from present
indications, become a synonym for a cradle
of white fish. And here I recall that it was
on the borders of Koo-wee-rup that Clara
and Annie Snell were born—the dainty pair
who in a few years weighed 35st. and 29st.
respectively.
JUDGE JOSH WILLIAMS
(M.L.), recently insulted
with a Knighthood.
Kitchener, whose sword is generally under-
stood to be one of the main , supports of the
Empiah, made the frightful mistake of ap-
pearing at George’s Buckingham Palace
social in the wrong trousers. He had hardly
finished counting the crowned heads, when
the horrified First Trouser Button in Waiting
tip-toed up to him like an undertaker, and
whispered in his ear that Court etiquette
prescribed buckskin breeches for such occa-
sions, and that he (Kitchener) “must not let
it occur again” ! Kitchener wasn’t mortified;
he was merely so wild that he got away from
the fool-infested palace just as soon as he
could.
WHEN THE SPEAKER TOOK THE CHAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It took about an hour’s careful handling to subdue
the storm, but Mr. Willis did it most thoroughly.
He let the House see clearly that he was aware of
the powers he possessed, and was prepared to exer-
cise them.— Sydney paper.
They were howling like hyenas, they were screaming
as they pleased;
They were out to slaughter Willis, and their tongues
with hate were greased;
So they struck and bit like adders, and like jackals
snarled and tore;
For their colleague’s reputation was a bone upon the
floor.
Oh, they snapped and spat their venom, but he never
turned a hair—■
Merely sat and watched and listened with a calm,
reflective air ;
Seemed to find it most instructive, did that silent,
lonely man,
Who, to save us Fifty Thousand, was prepared to
follow Cann !
They were Liberal with insults, for the House was
out of joint,
And the Clerk could not correct them —he could
merely sit and point
At each wild and rowdy member when it came his
turn to swear
That he scorned the name of Willis, and would not
respect the Chair ;
’Twas a Liberal education to the public and the
press,
And it caused the silent “traitor” not a moment of
distress,
For he calmly watched them blither and their
proper duty shirk.
But —there was an alteration when the Speaker got
to work!
He spoke kindly, like a teacher to a class of kniclc-
cred boys ;
And they tried at first to drown him with a lot of
foolish noise ;
But he never lost his temper. Just to hear him was
a treat:
“Yes, the Honorable Member must ( what’s this!)
resume his seat.”
And the Honorable Member like an angry oyster sat,
Looking hot enough to sizzle in his own ill-mannered
fat;
And, when graciously permitted to again address the
Chair,
lie was choking, but respectful, to the grave official
there.
It was beautiful to see them when an hour or so
had gone,
And a dozen rude insurgents had been firmly sat
upon ;
For the atmosphere was placid, and no raucous
howls of hate
Marred the orderly progression of the asinine debate;
They resumed their nicest manners, and that deferen-
tial air,
Which in Parliamentary circles is adopted towards
the Chair.
So, good-luck to Speaker Willis, who would save our
golden quids,
For he whipped and drilled his party like a mob of
silly kids!
N.S.W.
HORATIO HOORAY.


Your Mouth is the Best
“Setting” for a
GEM OF THE EAST”
MANILA.
These Cigars are made in all the favorite Manila shapes


WORTHINGTON PUMPS 7
GAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
Appiy 32-34 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
“THE EDWARDS” ORE ROASTING FURNACES.
ECONOMY IN LABOR, FUEL AND MAINTENANCE.
Write for Catalogue and Prices to—
FRASER 8 CHALMERS, LTD., London; STEARNS-ROGER MFG. CO.. Denver, U.S.A. ;
T. EDWARDS, Ballarat, Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia •
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. w Off. serves.
Feb., 1903.. 109,649 8 p.c. = 60,000 50,000 1,019,793
Aug., 1903.. 126,330 10 „ „ 75,000 47,000 1,024,123
feb., 1904.. 112,182 10 ~ „ 75,000 10,000 1,051,3 5
Auer., 1904.. 115,830 10 „ „ 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb., 1905.. 100, 374 10 „ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,082,509
Aug., 1905.. 100,767 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb., 1906..100,879 10 ~ „ 75,000 10,000 1,114,155
Aug., 1906.. 152,251 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,151,406
Feb., 1907..227,904 14 „ ~105,000 70,000 1,204,310
Aug., 1907.. 146,560 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,235,870
Feb., 1908..145,188 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,266,058
Aug., 1908.. 136,386 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,287,444
Feb., 1909..135,562 14 ~ „ 105,000 10,000 1,308,006
Aug., 1909.. 135,873 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,328,879
Feb., 1910..136,049 14 „ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,349,928
Aug-., 1910.. 141,454 14 „ „ 105,000 15,000 1,371,382
Feb., 1911..135,807 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,392,189
A few years ago various Australian banks—and es-
pecially those of Sydney—found that they had done
so well under the blight of Federation, and the curse
of Freetrade and the horrors of “Labor domina-
tion, that they could pay more than 10 p.c. Two
or three of the more prudent concerns thought that,
rather than go beyond that figure, they should do
very much the same thing for their shareholders by
calling in capital (worth, say, 5 p.c.), and paying
10 p.c. at once upon it. The Union and the ’Asia”
however, had other ideas, probably because their
directors are in London, and won’t understand that
a big dividend is liable to attract hostile attention
in these parts. So, instead of getting in more capi-
tal, and thus strengthening the position of the bank
while incidentally dropping a plum into the mouths
of shareholders, the Union ran its dividend up to 14
p.c. The other plan unquestionably has most to
recommend it; and, as a matter of fact, the Union
has got into a position where it ought to have more
capital. Its capital and visible reserves combined
are £2,892,189; and it owes its depositors and
other creditors £25,404,403. Thus, for every £1
of its °wn funds, it has £8 16s. of the public’s;
and that is a proportion which, if it isn’t actually
excessive, is not far from it. It would be excessive
without any question or qualification whatever but
for two things. (1) The risk which a bank takes in
connection with its creditors’ money depends largely
upon the use to which that money is put. Ob-
viously, if the bank keeps a large proportion in
liquid assets, there isn’t so much risk of the share-
holders funds being called upon to make good the
loss of borrowed money. And this bank’s holding of
liquid assets is very large; it amounts to no less
than 46 p.c. of the total liabilities. (2) Besides
the reserves which a bank shows, it may have some
which it doesn’t show. Thus it may have its assets,
or some of them, written down below real value,
it may have some which it doesn’t value at any-
thing at all. The Union is very likely in that posi-
tion. It has been writing down its premises for
many years, until now they stand at very little
more than half a million; and their market value
is probably twice as much. The Union’s position is,
therefore, better than it looks as to the matter under
discussion; but it is to be hoped that its example
wont encourage any other Australian banking con-
cern to take £9 of deposits, etc., for every £1 of
its own funds. Anyhow, in connection with this
and every other bank, the point that needs to be
driven home is that, other things being equal, the
concern with the largest amount of debt in propor-
tion to capital and reserves is the one that offers
the least protection to the depositor. A big propor-
tion of deposits, etc., means large earnings, or ought
to mean that; but shareholders ought to set against
those large earnings the fact that a big proportion
of deposits also means large risks. When a share-
holder’s £1 has to guarantee the return of a de-
positor’s £9, there doesn’t have to be a very bad
slump in the security in which the £9 is invested
to completely wipe out some of the shareholder’s
little sovereign.
One can’t blame Australian banks, though, for
having piled up their deposits, so fast. The country
has been earning the money, and it has naturally
gone to the banks. This shows 10 years’ changes:—
Liabilities.
Feb.,’ol. Feb.,’ll.
Notes .. .. £483,731 £543,925 Inc. 12-4 p.c.
Bills .. .. 1,929,241 2,042,520 Inc. 58 ~
Deposits .. 15,249,040 22.817.95 S Inc. 49 0 „
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 7,308,946 11,682,365 Inc. 59 8 p.c.
Advances .. 12,232,203 16,183,038 Inc. 32'3 ~
Premises .. 729,681 536,189 Dec. 26\5 „
By February, 1901, the Union had accumulated
£15,249,040 of deposits, after 64 years’ trading;
in the past 10 years it has accumulated just upon
half of that 64 years’ total. Still, when one looks
at the matter with an eye to possible future trouble,
it isn’t the deposits that count so much as the ad-
vances ; and it will be seen with satisfaction that
the Union has not increased its advances at anything
like the rate at which the deposits have grown.
This shows the changes in the past 12 months: —
Liabilities.
Feb.,’lo. Feb.,’ll.
Notes .. .. £470,997 £543,925 Inc. £72,928
Bills .. .. 1,559,150 2,042,520 Inc. 483 370
Deposits .. 21,349,025 22,817,958 Inc. 1,468|933
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 11,428,438 11,682,365 Inc. 253,927
Advances .. 14,356,601 16,183,038 Inc. 1 826 437
Premises, etc... 549,061 536,189 Dec. 12,872
Advances have moved very rapidly. They may be
quite right; on the other hand, it is highly pro-
bable that most securities are now at an inflated
value. The earnings are naturally very solid. On
capital and reserves combined they were at the rate
of £9 9s. 2d. p.c. p.a. for the last half-year. But,
as before mentioned, that high return is partly due
to the big proportion of deposits and other debt,
which means risk for the shareholders.
* * * *
The Chillagoe Co., which owns mines and
railways in North Queensland: —
Written To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. , Off. serves, serves.
1906 .. £10,498 Nil £9,965 £533 £533
1907 .. 55,201 Nil 49,051 6,150 6,683
Premiums on new shares .. 14,750 21 433
f 33,091 Nil 30,620 2,4711
1908 .. -j Written off new share l 23,899
1 premiums .. .. 5 I ’
1909 .. 63,679 Nil 49,563 14,116 38,015
1910.. 56,775 Nil 56,017 758 38,773
1911 .. 66,206 Nil 55,373 10,833 49,606
This has been one of the huge failures of North
Queensland —a monument of miscalculation (de-
liberate or otherwise), blundering, booming, and re-
constructing. Fortunately that doesn’t end it. Of
late years the history has been mainly one of enter-
prise and strenuous endeavor to pull the wreck off
the rocks. Most of the people who were connected
with the concern in its early days ought to have
been stone-broke long ago. Somehow or other a
good many of them seem fairly affluent still. Pro-
bab!y they knew their way about the share market.
This, m brief, is the record of the co.
Chillagoe Proprietary.—Formed in 1893 or there-
abouts. Capital, £960,000, in £2OO shares.
Chillagoe Railway and Mines.—lB9B. Money
wanted. Shares split up; old co. got 480,000 for
nix ( £2 shares) and another 120,000 for £l.
Ditto, first reconstruction.—lB99. More money
wanted. Shares reduced to £1 in order to encourage
a debenture issue (£400,000).
New Chillagoe Railway and Mines.—l9o2. More
money wanted. Share for share issued, but the new
shares made liable for 3s. Debenture issue by this
time, £498,300 at 6 p.c. J
Chillagoe Co., Ltd.—l9os. More money wanted.
Numerous shares had been forfeited, but 688,983
were left. These offered to old shareholders at Is.,
with Is. 6d. liability, on payment of which they
would be fully paid to 10s. Another 1017 shares
offered for subscription; and 10,000 given to the
Tolhurst-lveats people for bullocking the thing
through. Total shares, 700,000 of 10s. Things also
rearranged with debenture-holders.
Ditto.—l9o6. More money wanted. Debenture-
holders agreed to put up some more, provided the
shareholders put up another £150,000, in 300,000
shares. Under this arrangement money has been
dribbling in, so that no further reconstruction has
been necessary. The present paid capital is
£452,857. There are 1,000,000 shares, of which
15,000 are fully paid to 10s. ; most of the others
are liable for another Is. After that rearrangement
was made the co. decided to push its railway on to
the Etheridge, in order mainlv to get ore to feed its
works. In this big undertaking it had the help of
the Government, which undertakes to buy the line
at some time or other (probably it will be pretty
soon), and meantime guarantees 21 p.c. interest on
the certified outlay. The railway (the Etheridge
extension) stands in the books at £469,927 (cost),
of which the holders of special debentures have
provided £225,000. The ordinary debentures total
£573,300, and there are other liabilities amounting
to £86,544. 6
The co.’s great trouble was that it spent a heap
of money on a railway to serve mines which turned
out very poorly. That hit the co. in both eyes.
First the co. got nothing out of the mines, and then
it was burdened with interest on a railway which
had little work to do; for the other mines in the
district failed as badly as those belonging to the
Chillagoe Co. They were not and are not duffers
by any means ; but to spend a vast sum on a railway
to serve them was like buying an elephant to shift
a packet of pins. And the shocking miscalculation
over the mines led to a shocking miscalculation over
the reduction works. Hence the struggle in recent
years to find new mines, or to reach old ones in re-
mote districts, so that the railway and works may
have a better chance to earn a living.
The co. has now these strings to its bow: (1) Its
own Chillagoe mines and reduction works; (2) the
Chillagoe line, connecting with the Government
(Cairns) railway at Mareeba; (3) the Etheridge
line; (4) various newly-acquired mines on the
Etheridge; (5) wharf and other odds and ends.
There are some possibilities also in the Mount Mulli-
gan coal seams, 30 miles away from the line; but
these may be reckoned in with the reduction works.
The Chillagoe railway is the most cheerful item
among the assets at present. This shows its more
recent history:—
Expen- Balance
Dec., Receipts. diture. over Exes.
190'! .. .. £60,300 £26,071 £34,229
1904 .. .. 50,112 21,927 28,185
1905 •• .. 63,871 23,753 40,118
Mar ,
1906 (3 mos.).. 14,503 5,777 8,726
1907 .. .. 87,628 26,475 61,153
1908 .. .. 114,840 36,847 77,993
1909 .. .. 105,038 37,125 67,913
1910 .. .. 82,639 22,186 60,453
1911 .. .. 87,843 25,085 62,758
Out of that £62,758 interest has to be paid, along
with a proportion of general administration expen-
ses; probably £3OOO would amply cover the latter.
The railway (110 miles) stands now in the books-
at £333,261. Assuming that the net revenue was
£60,000, after paying this department’s fair share
of exes., then the return on present book-value was
over 18 p.c. That would be very charming if the
railway didn’t have to carrv a vast quantity of
almost unproductive assets. This shows the return
from all sources:—
1910. 1911.
Chillagoe Railway .. .. £60,453 £62,758
Etheridge Railway .. .. 17,500 14,032
Cairns Wharf.. .. .. 1,508 L 452
Mines and reduction works 8,887 21,584
Total £88,348 £99,826
The mines and reduction works, apart from inci-
dentals (telephones, live stock, stores, sidings, etc.),
represent £418,818 of the co.’s capital and deben-
tures ; and, though last year’s results were unusually
good, even then the return was only about 4f p.c.,
whereas the debenture debt is 5 p.c. And, out of the
£21,584 they earned, depreciation has to be written
off. Probably 4f p.c. isn’t enough to write off ; in which
case the net return from this department was nil,
or less than that. But still the mines and works
have to be kept going, or the railway wouldn’t be
fed.
The future depends very largely on the develop-
ment of the mines in the Etheridge district; and
there is still much uncertainty about them. At pre-
sent there is not much promise of anything very
large. Many from small to medium mines are, how-
ever, opening up; and the co. looks to have bread
and butter assured for its debenture-holders, though
steady meals for the shareholders are still uncertain
in the extreme. Even an occasional snack isn’t yet
visible on the horizon.
* * * *
Port Jackson and Manly Steaaiship Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney):—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1903.. 3,996 8 p.c. = 1000 2800 196 1,283
June, 1904.. 7,973 8 „ ~1000 5268 1,705 2,988
Dec., 1904.. 6,407 8 ~ ~1000 1068 4,339 7,327
June, 1905.. 11,038 10 ~ ~1250 8664 1,124 8,451
Dec., 1905.. 7,966 10 „ ~1250 6,716 15,167
June, 1906.. 8,075 10 ~ ~1250 6,825 21,992
Dec., 1906.. 8,609 10 „ ~1250 7,359 29,351
Premium on issue of new shares .. 4,335 33,686
June, 1907.. 15,718 14 p.c. = 2055 13,663 47,349
(No accounts available.
Dec 1907 ' Apparently added to re-
** | serves 12,628 59,977
l Transferred to capital, £58,670 .. 1,307
June, 1908.. 10,721 8 p.c. =3520 7,201 8,508
Dec., 1908.. 16,551 10 „ ~4400 12,151 20,659
June, 1909.. 13,335 10 „ ~4400 8,935 29,594
Transferred to capital, £17,601 .. .. 11 993
Dec. 1909.. 11,341 10 „ ~4840 6,501 i5’,494
June, 1910.. 13,280 10 ~ ~5280 8,000 26 494
Dec., 1910.. 18,971 13J „ ~7040 11,931 38,’425
June, 1911.. 24,477 135,, ~7040 17,437 55,862
When the Government decided to continue the North
Shore tram service from the Spit to Manly, there
were some people who wondered how hard this ferry
co. was going to be hit. The tram was running for the
New Year traffic, so this co.’s balance-sheet, just
presented, shows the effect of the first half-year’s
competition. The co.’s flags were at half-mast the other
day, but it probably wasn’t for the results shown in
the accounts. The tram certainly is often crowded ;
but it is a poor little thing, comparatively speaking - ,
?i S tle Dme-table is so grotesquely misarranged
that the cars may land a passenger from Milson’s
Point to Manly in 40 minutes, or may dawdle him
along for two hours, the ferry co. continues to carry at
least 50 passengers for every one that goes the other
way. And the proportion will probably never get
much closer than that. The co. has been an amaz-
ing success. A few years ago Sydney started to
discover Manly, and Manly has now become a
habit. At any time Ma’s capital loves out-door
pleasure. During the past five or six years of
phenomena l prosperity the city has been able to
gratify its love to an unusual extent, and this co
has coined money therefrom. When the Manly boom
started this was the co.’s position:—
Capital, 20,000 shares at £2 19s. each
paid to 255. . ’ £25,000
Debentures (terminable) . . . . 20 000
Interminable debentures (issued to the
old Manly Co-op. Co.) .. .. 8,745
In 1906 the terminable debentures were paid off
and the others converted into shares at 100 p.c. pre-
The new capital was thus £25,000,’ plus
£4372 _ £29,372. (A few of the shares were,
however, not taken up.) Next year the stock was
watered to the extent of £2 for every £1 of paid
capital. So the capital became £88,005. Within
two years £17,601 more profit (mostly unacknow-
ledged) was capitalised, so the capital became
£105,606 —
Capital actually paid .. .. .. £29 335
Ditto, paid out of profits .. .. 762 71
Total £105,606
Thus the 13J p.c. div. is really about 45 p.c.! And,
as the table shows, the dividend absorbs only a very
small part of the profit.
Of course the co. doesn’t confess to anything like
the profits shown in the table. It is so very modest
that its Profit and Loss account says: “Net profit
after providing for depreciation, etc., £7018,” and’
that “etc.” covers a multitude of grabs. This sets
out how the profit shown in the table is arrived at:—
Added to Public Risk Reserve .. .. £1627
Steamers’ Insurance Fund .. .. *263
Reserve Fund .. .. .. ..’ 15 000
Plant Renewal Fund .. .. .’569
Alleged Net Profit .. .. * 7,018
Total (Profit as per table).. .. £24,477
Happy is the co. whose shareholders actually put up
only about £30,000, and which can yet drop £15,000
into its formal Reserve Fund and pretend not to
notice it! How long this fatness is going to last
this paper doesn’t know. Some day, perhaps, a Gov-
ernment will tell this co. that it will have to either
bring its fares down, or stand the racket. of State
competition. Some day also the present good times,
when a run to Manly is neither here nor there, will
come to an end, more or less. And some day, too,
the co. may be hit by a disaster which may cost it
all its assets in claims for compensation. Against
the last contingency it has a poor little public
risk reserve of £6OOO. On the other hand, Manly is
Manly, and there is only one of it; and Sydney is
going to grow, and it isn’t at all likely that it will
change its love of out-door pleasuring.
* * * *
The Electric Light and Power Supply Cor-
poration, Ltd. (Sydney), which began business
under a contract with the Balmain suburban coun-
cil, and started with a deficit of £9876, represent-
ing Parliamentary rights and other preliminary
exes.:—
Written
Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
May, 1908 .. £9,876
Deo., 1908 .. £304 _ 10 180
June, 1909 .. 183 10,363
Dec., 1909 .. 298 10,661
June, 1910 .. 219 10,880
Further goodwill items added, £1346 .. 12,226
Profit.
Dec., 1910 .. 1104 £530 11,652
June, 1911 .. 1406 5 p.c. = £1075 531 11,852
Three or four years back the Sydney City Council,
which had established electric light and power works,
began to eat up the electric light cos. within the
city; and some of the people interested in one or
more of those concerns looked elsewhere for an open-
ing of the same kind. An arrangement was made
with the Balmain (suburban) municipality, a bill
was put through, this co. was formed, and works
were established. Later on it made a 57 years’
agreement with the Newtown Council; and during
the past half-year another with Petersham. To get
the extra capital required for the Newtown exten-
sion, debentures for £25,000 were issued; now, to
provide for the further extension, arrangements
have been made with the bank for an advance up to
£25,000 secured by a debenture “issued subject to
the same terms and conditions as the first issue of
debentures, except as to interest, which is to be at
the rate current from time to time upon
secured overdrafts.” That will make the capital
£50,000, and the debenture debt £50,000.
It is too early yet to say what profit the co. is going
to make, as it is so far really only fighting for busi-
ness, and the Australian (Sydney) Gas Co. isn’t a
paltry competitor ; but as the latter co. pays a 15 p.c.
div.. it plainly doesn't cut prices to the bone. There is
however, the Sydney municipal electric supply to
be considered, and some at least of the agreements
made by this co. provide for treatment as good in
some respects as that civic enterprise offers. Anything
in the shape of very fat dividends therefore seems
improbable, inasmuch as the city supply isn’t out
after dividends. As the line or two on top of the
table indicate, the co. has to provide dividend on a
quantity of “water”; in fact, the present amount
of the deficit is exactly the total amount of the capi-
tal and loans unrepresented by tangible assets. Part of
this “water” is, however, represented by ordinary
shares. The whole position as to capital is—De-
bentures £25,000 (and another . £25,000 arranged
for), to take the first bite of profits; £43,000 in
pref. shares, entitled to the second bite; and £7OOO
in ordinaries, which come in last. Pending the issue
of the second lot of debentures, the co., on June 30,
had debts (mainly overdraft) totalling £9450.
# * * *
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Written Re-
Profifcs. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £1393 3 p.c. = £l5OO £39,665
June, 1904.. 691 2J „ „ 1250 £6O 39,046
Dec., 1904 .. 2412 21 „ ~ 1250 1 40,207
June, 1905.. 436 21 „ „ !250 39,393
Dec., 1905 .. 3615 21 „ „ 1250 41,758
June, 1906.. 1143 21 „ „ 1250 4L651
Dec., 1906 .. 6515 5' ~ „ 2500 45,666
June, 1907 .. 2189 5 „ „ 2500 45,355
Dec., 1907 .. 6863 5 ~ „ 2500 49,718
June, 1908 .. 2812 5 „ „ 2500 50,030
Dec., 1908 .. 4700 5 „ „ 2500 52,230
June, 1909.. 1321 5 ~ „ 2500 51,051
Dec., 1909.. 5431 5 „ „ 2500 53,982
June, 1910 .. 1797 5 „ „ 2500 53,279
Dec., 1910.. 6808 5 „ „ 2500 57,587
June, 1911.. 2049 5 ~ „ 2500 57,136
This co. owns and works a line which runs up in a
rather tired way into western Riverina from the
Victorian railway terminus at Moama. There isn’t
a great deal for it to do, because most of the coun-
try is held in big sheep-runs, and the State Frights
Government won’t build lines to feed this one, since
that would mean feeding the Victorian railways and
Melbourne. In fact, instead of feeding this line
and getting the stock and other produce to the
nearest big market and port, the N.S.W. railways
attract freight which otherwise might go to this line
by offering specially low rates to Sydney. It is pos-
sible, though, that that form of madness will be
pretty soon stamped out, more or less. For the
reasons mentioned, this co. hasn’t had a gaudy
time; but it has accepted the situation, and paid
only a very small div. when things were bad. Con-
sequently it has put itself into a pretty strong
financial position. In 10 years things have moved
this way:—
1901. 1911.
Liquid asset 9 .. .. £8,414 £17,764
Liabilities 32,432 20,798
Excess liabilities .. £24,018 £3,034
Thus, in 10 years the co., besides providing its divi-
excess of liabilities by £20,984. Whether U fho ltS
SS”«'inSHl
&rV&&Z&g£t‘&TSt
hl,d de S u, li,“ d fwT,l,g ITS-'g
To £T 13 100 ’ 000 ’ in 25,000 £5
* * *
* *
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Svdnevl
manufacture and deal in builders’ goods?-
SSf* « Di -l-ds. serves!
Hh fill r-ili 11 *BB
IS ! :lIS S &
1911 Asse s written up .. i o>o oo 44 60a
1911 .. 16,861 8 p.c. = 13,200 3,661 48,264
During the past year the properties and the rOmt
ZlStlioWS to *« £ 4t SrSS.^’K
£lo >°°o goes on to the book values
Possibly the properties were previously over-vahmd •
at any late, whereas they stood last year at £93 67n’
they now stand at only £77,710, though there’h av e
nr 6 ?)/ 01 ! 16 SaleS l rin S the year which may wholly
hand S the acco PP t for the difference. On the other
, the , machinery and plant is set down at a
much higher value than formerly. It is true that
u WCr ? y al^ e , d as a Preliminary to the
making of Federal land-tax returns; and—-well a
S'pt l1 ’!, we re made with that in view
wouldn t be likely to err on the side of excessive’
lt er t hty - j tridependent of these movements, the co
has been doing exceedingly well, which is no less
thl B it n 6 ex P ected m view of the building boom
and the high prices current for most building re-
quisites. When *that boom eases off, it is practically
certain that things won’t look quite so well. The co
has already had experience of these ups and downs!
It started off with a capital of £220,000, and sub-
sequently a reconstruction took place, the 20s. shares
being written down to 155., on which something
less than 6 p.c. was paid for some years before the
period covered by the table on top of these remarks.
Probably there won’t be the same violent movements
m the future, for the Commonwealth tariff will
steady things; but even a tariff won’t banish
droughts. Moreover, the co., by keeping its dividend
modest, has put itself into a much stronger financial
position than it used to be in. This shows that and
some other things:—
1906. 1908. 1909. 1910. 1911.
r* -k & £ £ £
Liabilities.. .. 90,176 95,348 100,104 93,552 40 111
Properties .. 100,670 100,670 100,670 93,670 77,710
Machinery, plant,
etc 89,867 89,867 89,867 89,837 105,000
Ships .. .. 2,200 540 500 500 500
Stock .. .. 62,585 66,914 77,161 60,497 38,715
Cash and book
debts .. .. 32,177 39,815 37,149 55,251 38,050
Liabilities have thus been reduced by just upon
£50,000 in five years (partly, no doubt, by the sale
of the landed property before mentioned), while
cash and book debts have been added to a trifle.
Meantime a good deal has certainly been spent on
plant. The amount written off out of profits as a
set-off against wear and tear is not disclosed, and a
great deal depends on that; but, judging by the
recent valuations, the writing down has been more
than adequate. In fact, the surplus shown over
previous book values represents profits which were
written off in excess of the legitimate demands of
the case. There can, then, be no question about the
excellent record of the co, during the past five years;
and, though the next five years need not necessarily
be anything like the past live, the co. will certainly
face poor times with a very much better chance of
maintaining moderate dividends.
* * * *
Newoastle-Waelsend Goal Co. (N.S.W.):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1903.. £15,202 30p.c. = £15,000 £202 £53,176
Dec., 1903.. 9,566 20 ~ ~ in, ooo 52,742
June, 1904.. 4,009 15 ~ ~ 7,500 49,251
Dec., 1904.. 5,003 10 ~ ~ 5,000 3 49,254
June, 1905.. 5,027 10 ~ „ 5,000 27 49,281
Dec., 1905.. 3,759 10 ~ ~ 5,000 48,040
June, 1906,. 5,Q93 10 ~ ~ 5,000 93 48,133
Dec., 1906.. 5,273 10 ~ „ 5,000 273 48,406
June, 1907.. 10,567 15 „ ~ 7,500 3067 51,473
Dec., 1907.. 10,097 20 ~ „ 10,000 97 51,570
June, 1908.. 10,013 20 ~ ~ 10,000 13 51,583
Dec., 1908.. 10,431 20 ~ ~ 10,000 431 52,014
June, 1909.. 10,370 20 ~ ~ 10,000 370 52,384
Dec., 1909.. 4,090 10 ~ ~ 5,000 51,474
June, 1910.. 5,115 10 „,, 5,000 115 51,589
Dec., 1910.. 10,562 20 ~ ~ 10,000 562 52,151
June, 1911.. 4,163 10 ~ ~ 5,000 51,314
Profits are shown “after providing for wear and tear
and depreciation,” and the amount of that provision
possibly depends upon the state of various people’s
livers. The amount is, moreover, never stated; and
nobody’s liver is alluded to, as that might give a
clue to the facts. Just lately the northern coal cos.
have been in the courts, and, though, of course, that
wouldn’t consciously affect their published accounts,
it might quite conceivably induce *them to take a
rather more than usually gloomy view of things in
general and depreciation in particular. About all
that can truthfully be said concjaiing this co.’s pub-
lished accounts.is that the ;n7!i:ron sums are correct.
But so far as indicating the v, nj. position of the co.
they are not worth much, l&flfever, for what it is
worth, here is a comparison:®
1901. 1911.
Liabilities £3,965 £6,573
Mining and Fixed Property.. 57,777 99,142
Liquid Assets .. . . 86,752 67,873
That looks as though the co. hasp’t held its own in
the past 10 years, after paying its dividends; in other
words, that the dividends have been to a small extent
paid out of accumulations. But to be sure of that
one would have to be sure that mining and fixed
property is valued on exactly the same basis now as
it was in 1901. If it is, then the co. has slipped back
a trifle. For while it has added only £11,365 to its
non-liquid assets, its surplus of liquid assets has been
reduced by £21,487.
* * * *
Mining-engineer Danvers Power dissents
from a recent par. (B. 24/8/’ll): Great Cobar’s
concentration and flotation plants will not cost any-
thing like £50,000. The former is being built on
foundations already existing, and most of the
material is already on the ground. Fresh construc-
tion work, with the exception of the concentration
plant, is not being started because there is no need for
any, the heavy construction of the past year being
practically completed. The reduction in the per-
sonnel of the staff is due to the same reason; the
work for which they were engaged is now finished.
The furnaces are doing excellent work, which goes
to show that, given a fair chance, they can do what
the management claims, for when fully supplied
with ore they have exceeded expectations. The
mines have a large quantity of payable ore de-
veloped, that of the different mines being blended
in the most economical manner for smelting, the ex-
tractable copper being reduced to allow of more gold
ore being treated, the latter metal not being subject
to market fluctuations. The institution of picking
belts and bedding bin has made it possible to get
the greatest use from the iron excess of the ore. The
Cobar Gold Mines property supplies 250 tons a day;
there are 344,000 tons, worth 1.3 p.c. copper and
Bdwt. gold per ton, developed, so there is no urgent
need io push forward with further development at
present. Under the circumstances, would it pay to
sink another main shaft in hard rock for the sake of
250 tons a day? The development work in all the
mines is well in advance of the present and future
requirements, and it is interesting to note that the
central ore body in the Great Cobar mine has the
same area and values at No. 11 level as at No. 10
level. I cannot compare the northern and southern
ore bodies, as they have not yet been sufficiently


The Pacific Cable Board
(01 which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“ VIA PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL. Cablegrams ;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [1
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings oi
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. 'W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured fo>
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* [1
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Extract from The Journal of Commerce, Liver-
pool (29/11/’10) : “Colonial Mutual.—This office is
one of the best, and has the advantage of capable
and progressive management.”*
The two principal factors in the success of WOOD
PIPE are its economy and durability. It is eco-
nomical as regards first cost; its lightness makes a
saving in freight, and it requires less labor to lay.
It has no exposed metal, and is, therefore, practi-
cally everlasting. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send full details on ap-
plication.*
SIMPITROL AIR GAS—the light that is nearest
daylight and almost as cheap. The Simpitrol Air
Gas System has all the advantages and none of the
disadvantages of other systems. It is simple, abso-
lutely safe, and is the most economical light you can
nave, costing one-sixth that of electricity, one-quarter
that of oil, and one-fifth that of acetylene lights. It
is not explosive, and does not entail tedious winding
and regulating of burners. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia), Ltd.,
84-88 William-street, Melbourne. Dept. W.*
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOIILER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil,
ease of starting, no complicated arrangement of
valves, and autc matic lubrication, and these are testi-
fied to by Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 25
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* [1
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
opened up at the deepest levels. From what I saw
of the place, the management evidently knows what it
is doing, and is better informed than The Bulle-
tin's correspondent. * *
Mount Boppy gold mine (N.S.W.) is
about to start the erection of a Moore vacuum slime
plant, similar to the one at the Occidental. A. J.
Chappie (formerly metallurgist to the latter co.),
and agent for the Moore people, is to keep his eye
on the new plant. Negus, the co.’s superintendent,
has hopes, too, of installing a suction gas plant to
supply power to the whole mine and works. One
thing, there is no shortage of cash here. Boppy is
easily the most profitable gold mine in N. YVales.
Cobar Copper, Ltd. (formerly Young
Australian and Mount Pleasant), is getting close to
the end of t three months’ partial labor suspen-
sion ; three o. four tributors are working on the
claim. It’s about time these people were served
with a little of the move on or get out medicine
that was administered at Crowl Creek.
* * * *
No Broken Hill mine has lately shown
such changes as the British. For years it has been
reckoned to have large possibilities, not only on
account of its area, but also because of its position,
inasmuch as it is the connecting link between the B.
H. Prop, and Block 14 on the south, and the Junction,
Junction North and North group to the north. But
somehow it hasn’t usually shown much energy, and
has had the habit of frequently knocking off work to
sit down and look at things. The recent find, which
has given the co. a new mine, was really touched in
1908, when the co. got on to the edge of the ore.
It was not until early this year, however, that the
thing was really stabbed. Thomson shaft was put
down to 900 ft., and a crosscut at that depth showed
35ft. of very high grade—just about as good as any
big sulphide body on the Barrier. At various
points, right up ’ to 300 ft., this body has been
proved; at 500 ft. it seems to be 137 ft. wide, though
that figure is arrived at only by boring. At 800 ft.
a second body was found, a few feet east of the main
body; this second body is 22ft. wide, and high
grade. From the 300 ft. to the 900 ft., in fact, the
grade is excellent, as far as the little investigation
has shown. The length of the shoot cannot yet be
said for certain. At the 600 ft. level the drills prove
it to be 500 ft. (it is at this point 95ft. wide) ; but
that may be considerably beyond the average. Only
a very rough estimate can be made of the reserves;
but it seems fairly safe to say that there are over
I, tons. It will be interesting now to watch de-
velopments in the top levels, for it is at least possible
that, above the sulphide zone, there may be a valu-
able oxidised ore body. In the old days the British
turned out very fine carbonates; and, though the ore
may be irregular near the surface, something very
well worth having may be found there.. The co. has
a mill capable of doing (three shifts) about 4000
tons a. week; but it seems pretty certain that the
mine will call for something further than that.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for July :
Value
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, per ton.
Great Boulder .. 18,537 £48,032 £24,998 51/10
Kalgurli .. .. 10,985 23,229 10,483 42/4
lavnhoe .. .. 20,706 40,319 18,009 39/-
Great Fingall .. 10,729 19,107 6,787 35/7
Boulder Perseverance 20,630 30,287 7,883 29/4
Associated .. 10,506 16,059 2,408 29/7
Lake View and Star 13,417 16,508 2,764 24/7
Sons of Gwalia .. 14,025 24,522 9,317 35/-
Oroya Links .. 8,150 10,382 864 25/6
South Kalgurli .. 9,566 11,580 1,411 24/2
Golden Horseshoe 24,067 32,523 156 27/-
Black Range .. 2,286 6,745 2,278 59/-
Gwalia South .. 2,331 3,553 1,036 30/6
Golden Ridge .. 2,912 6,572 2,800 45/2
Mararoa . .. 2,650 6,420 3,668 48/5
Lake View Consols 7,830* 1,923 711 4/10
Hainault .. ’ .. 6,153 6,683 83 25/11
Associated Northern 1,631 f 5,356 65/8
Boulder No. 1 .. 2,499 2,655 116 21/3
Chaffers .. ... 2,740 3,903 63 28/6
Northern Mines.. 6,687 8,135 24/4
Oroya-Black Range 4,630 9,285 2,745 40/1
Ingliston Extended 870 2,427 842 55/9
Sand Queen .. 680 1,660 502 49/-
Sirdar .. .. 700 580 117 16/7
Morning Star .. 924 1,828 69 40/-
* Old Residues. t Mostly tributors’ ore.
Westralia is about to incorporate the div-
idend duty and income tax Acts into one statute,
and pattern it somewhat on the lines of the Queens-
land law. Mining and other cos., which now part
up 5 p.c. on dividends, will continue to do so;
and provision will be made to reach a number of large
profit-earning business concerns which hitherto have
dodged the tax.
* * * *
Associated Gold Mines, Ltd., lias just
ended another profitless year; and, although the
Board says otherwise, there isn’t much chance of a
distribution during the current 12 months. The
working accounts show a surplus of £22,897, less
£3476 for development and £3923 for diamond-
drilling. Cash resources amount to £131,633, and
still consist mainly of Consols and Transvaal Gov-
ernment stock. What with some fairly good develop-
ments between the 12 and 14 levels, and the finding
of one or two good makes of ore above the No. 2
and below the No. 4 levels, the appearance of the
property has improved during the past few months ;
but unless something a good deal better than has
already been exposed is discovered in the bottom,
the mine can’t be a stayer.
* * * *
Oroya Links (W.A.) wrote off £5568 for
depreciation and £5185 for mine development last
year, and after paying the cost of mining operations
had £23,589 left. From this the previous year’s
debit balance of £8744, plus the £14,406 that
went to pay an unwise dividend, was deducted,
leaving £439 to be carried forward. Apart from
the remaining ore in the derelict Oroya-Brown Hill
leases, which the general managers say they can’t
estimate either as to quantity or value, the reserves
are computed at 82,509 tons, worth 28.475. per ton.
Both in the Eclipse and Golden Eagle leases, which
now form the backbone of the nroperty, the No. 4
level is stated to have disclosed a great length of
payable ore, and the Board is advised that when
the shaft, now being sunk, is put down to 750 ft.,
the reserves should be considerably increased, and
the remodelled mill kept running at its full capacity
on sulphide ore. Meanwhile the co. is barely
making ends meet, and the liquid assets, which
have now dwindled to £42,000, are in danger of
being further encroached on.
* * * *
Gwalia South (W.A.) has taken up
Oroya Links’ turned-down option on the Gimlet at
Ora Banda, and has eight months to decide whether
it will hold on to it or not. The purchase price is
fixed at £28,000, and the conditions of the option
are that the option-holder shall sink the shaft to
400 ft., and drive two levels the full length of the
shoot.
* * * *
Whim Well (W.A.) reports cheerfully,
and says that Dlenty of rich ore is exposed in the
bottom of the present mine workings. Last quar-
ter’s output was 496 tons fine copper, the biggest
yet obtained. Most of the ore is still sent to Euro-
pean smelters; but when the much-talked of new
plant starts early next year, everything is to be
treated on the spot, and a profit of £50,000 per
annum is reckoned on. The Bulletin has no way
of checking the prophecy.
The last will probably soon be heard of
the Westralia Waihi Co. Nothing worth having in the
shape of a new property can apparently be found in
the West, and even if one is found, the co. hasn’t
the money to either buy or develop it. It may
by some subtle means induce shareholders to fork
out a bit more, but in view of the way scrip-owners
were misled, first over the value of the Davyhurst
property and then over the awful failure which
somehow the co. became saddled with at Norseman,
it is very doubtful whether they will stump up any
more cash. At the end of the half-year just closed,
the principal assets were cash £253, stores £231,
sundry debtors £126; but against these credits
were sundry creditors, with accounts aggregating
£224.
* * * *
Sirdar (W.A.) had its half-yearly roll-up
the other day, when the chairman announced that
since the co.’s inception in July, 1908, £17,778
had. been split up among employees and trades-
people. The value of the bullion won was £20,833,
and, although no dividends had been paid, share-
holders were earnestly invited to comfort themselves
with the reflection that a co. which had done such
a good turn to others was deserving of support, be-
sides being a credit to the district where it carried
on business. The accounts showed a credit balance
of a few hundred pounds, while the manager’s re-
port was of the hopeful variety.
* * * *
Peak Hill (W.A.) has given it up, and
its la§t remains are to be auctioned on September 14.
For some time past the co. has been busy gouging
out and treating everything in sight, and when it
couldn’t find anything else to put through the treat-
ment plant, it simply let the mine drown, and
scooted. The bond and debenture holders then stepped
in, and are now trying to realise on the leavings,
which, needless to say, are not much.
Hampton Uruguay, Ltd., which dabbles
in mines, estates, live-stock and other risks, was
thinking, when the last mail left London, of forming
a separate co. to give the Lady Miller at Norseman
another trial. Towards the end of 1908 this show
was examined by A. E. Thomas, who reported that
20,000 tons of 355. ore were available for stoping,
without taking into account a lot of lower-grade
stuff above the No. 1 level, which he thought could
be worked at a profit. Thomas’s opinion confirmed
that of the then manager; but, although a proposal
to form a new co. to dig out this wealth was backed
up by both of them, the Board was not “having
any” at the time.
* * * *
P. W. Tewksbury won’t cease worrying
Peter Mcßride over the latter’s regulations declaring
that the Bright (Vic.) dredges shall re-soil the
country they chew; whereat Tewksbury gets no sym-
pathy worth mentioning from his fellow dredge-
masters. What Tewksbury would like to do would
be to aeroplane himself and his five dredges to
Araluen, or the Northern Territory—anywhere out of
the sight of Peter and his regulations. He might
growl less if he were doing better ; and he would do
better if he met Peter without the display of the
mailed fist. As it is, his big co. has only had a
surplus of profit of I.Bd. per cubic yard, and that
means the sick feeling that comes to most mining
men when they are spelled from the divvy list for a
while. Bright doesn’t, however, want to lose its
“Tewks.” He has been a generous employer, and
hates to turn hands adrift; yet he will flit if he can
manage it. Then, perhaps, someone more complaisant
will hail Peter with deference, and instal the soiler,
and get on nicely.
*' * * *
The old Egerton and Black Horse country
(Vic.) never loses its attraction, but none of the
prospecting shows have alighted on the gold such as
made Martin Loughlen, Bailey and others of the old
days. A try was made to get Bewick, Moreing and
Go. to engineer the Black Horse, and recently J.
Bull was asked direct to put up some cash. Now
comes news that the South Egerton has got good
stone, but so much is being made of its being on the
continuation of the “famous” Rose reef that every-
one shies off. This does not say that the district
ought to be left alone, but, as the old Black Horse
and Egerton haven’t enough vitality in them to
track an elephant, a new course must be shaped by
the prospectors of to-day.
A couple of Melbourne cos. begin to dig at
the Lake Boga (Vic.) gypsum. These deposits are
close to rail, and were discovered 20 years ago by
one Maloney. The stuff occurs in two forms—the
crystal, which is to be used for plaster of, Paris
manufacture, and the earthy, which forms a manure
basis.
The Ten Mile district, up Woods Point
way (Vic.), shows more derelict mines than empty
beer bottles along the hill sides. One Melbourne-
owned claim, the Champion, survives to tell a mild
tale of divs. It has a big face of stone, with water
to give cheap power for the greater part of the year,
so that if it has the gilt there is every chance of
turning out profits. The average for the past half-
year is 7dwt., which, under such conditions, should,
unless the gold is exceedingly patchy, enable rattling
good money to be won. If there is, as is testified to,
an Bft. reef in one level and a 15ft. reef in another,
the need of the claim is a big battery of modern
type. To pay £l5OO in dividends, and then only
have £l6O to go with, is not mining at all. The
presence of a break, or a drop in the value of the
stone, and troubles start at once. The £l5OO ought
to have gone into the mine or into plant—preferably
the former, for with the lode proved big, even if it
were worth only 4dwt., the Board would have no
difficulty in getting any reasonable capital it might
desire for the claim. As it is, no one outside is
trustful about the future, because there is no cer-
tainty that dividends won’t stop *at any time.*
Cassilis, Gippsland, is like the verdant
debutante—it always thinks the newest man the best.
Andrews, Coote, Nicholas, Dickson, Drummond —all
hang among the portraits of the bosses of the past;
but their monuments have to be searched for in the
scrap-heap. The present pebble is Lilburne, formerly
of the South German ; and he isn’t abusing his pre-
decessors, thank goodness! It looks as if he was
licking things into shipshape. As he had to start on
low-grade dirt, he had less room to turn in than
some of the others. When he talks of 7dwt. cover-
ing costs, he is putting up a halo for himself, be-
cause if he can work on that basis, he has the chance
to convert the Cassilis into a central establishment
for a mining field which has always wanted cheap
costs and good brains to make it a big producer.
Lilburne tells a tale of the ore at the bottom level
widening and improving in values. Let him be
warned against emulating the great prophets, other-
wise he will go the way of men before him. Cassias
shoots of ore cut in and cut out like a dog at a fair.
The complex mineral contents of the lode so tar
have been persistent; but experience in Gippsland
warns the cautious man to take nothing for granted,
and to talk only of what’s right under the point of
the pick. Lilburne’s programme is sink, sink, sink ;
and if he can get the Board to keep pace with him,
and if his slimes scheme pans out successfully,
sundry share scoops will no doubt soothe chairman
Saddler. #
The other day The Bulletin cast an eye
to Glen Wills (Vic.), to see what one of Alec Pea-
cock’s cos. was doing there. Peacock has had under
his gaudy wing the Maude and Homeward. Bound,
known generally as Maudy. Once upon a time the
claim was worked with the shareholders taking the
risk like men. Then the tributor was brought in,
and things went on in that way till Peter Mcßride
went on the trail of the man who was content to
let the tributor save his pocket. Someone then
asked for the transfer of Maudy to his camp, and got
the beauty. Now there is to be a clearing-up sale,
with 16,214 shares to cut up the proceeds. Those
in the first float did not do badly, for the total cash
put up was only £3295, while the gold won was
£90,375. Of that £39,560 went in wages, and the
shareholders got £10,400 in divs. ; the payments to
the tributor on account of royalty were £25,000,
showing that he has been the backbone of the mine
for years past. #
The mines of the Mammoth Copper Co.
(Q.) offer further encouragement. The Keppoch has
had its winze from the Soft, level deepened a further
22ft., and “the ore has increased to 2ft., and assays
8 p.c. copper and sdwt. gold.” In the Allan the
prospects are also healthy, while various shafts on
the outcrop of the Noonday are promising. No. 1
shows a sft. lode, and No. 2 4ft., with copper
verging on 9 p.c. But good stuff is needed, seeing
that it has to be taken by traction engine 25 miles
to Mungana, en route for the furnaces at Chillagoe.
* * * *
Many Peaks, which supplies Mount Mor-
gan with iron flux, held its annual meeting the
other day, and told itself that its reserves are
bigger than ever. Since Mount Morgan started to
do business with it, in 1907, the young co. has re-
ceived £12,500 as royalty on 100,000 tons, at 2s. 6d.
per ton. Of this total, 36,322 tons are not yet
delivered, so it may be four or five months before
royalty will begin to flow in again. All the uncalled
capital has been asked in; and when the lot has
been paid up the co.’s shares (2041 of £1) will be
cut up into 81,640, nominally of sixpence each. In
the directors’ report nothing is said of a shipment or
two of stuff sent to Port Kembla smelters, though
that is a point of some interest. The bank credit
balance was a modest £460 at the end of the co.’s
year; but when there is a bit to cut up the share-
holders get it —the last little lot was 30s. per share.
* * * *
The Welcome, near Charters Towers,
has been attracting the eye of the speculator. For-
merly it was worked by its owner in a small way,
but five well-known Towers mining men took a hand
recently. A lot of 36 tons —shovelled from the mul-
lock heap, it is alleged—returned 28s. 6d. a ton;
and a small picked four-ton lot broken from below
gave soz. of- gold, with £4 10s. for the sands. The
Towers is interested, and wants to know what will
happen with depth. #
Oaks Rush (Q-). which is striking a good
many difficulties in connection with its plant, is in-
creasing its capital to £12,000 by the issue of
60,000 new 2s. shares. Present scrip-holders have a
prior right to take this lot.
Charters Towers has an idea that if it
could get cheap fuel from Blair Athol it would boom
again, so it has started to pull the political strings
in order to get a railway connection with Clermont,
on the Central line. And the Towers is largely run
by men who know a good deal about pulling politi-
cal strings.
* * * *
Speculation is slack at Charters Towers
because deep-level prospects are not up to the mark.
So far the Brilliant Block has failed to pick up the
Day Dawn reef. When the drive was extended from
the Freehold boundary into the Brilliant lease, there
was a blank, and, generally speaking, prospects were
in and out; but some good stone was struck in a
winze below the level (1613 ft.), work ceasing when
the winze was down 100 ft. To add to the uncer-
tainty, the make of stone was dipping at a much
steeper angle than the Day Dawn generally does,
which of course spoiled the yarn about “all the
characteristics of the Day Dawn” being in evidence.
* * * *
Swedenborg, Charters Towers, is an out-
sider in same locality as the Black Jack and Stock-
holm. A trial crushing of stone from this old show,
which was abandoned 20 years since, is to be sent
to the mill. Some of the stone on view in the
Towers is heavily mineralised. The original shaft
was sunk 700 ft. on the underlay of the reef.
* * * *
After being left alone for half a century a
coal mine at Mogil Mogil Creek, near Brisbane, has
been re-prospected with encouraging results. In the
long ago only the outcrop was rooted, and the coal
was of poor quality. This time, however, a shaft
has been sunk, and coal of good quality struck.
* * * *
Up north it is said that Mount Elliott has
secured an option over the Limestone mine, which
has been much in evidence lately as a producer of
rich ore. The latest report is that the shaft at 100 ft.
disclosed a strong body of stone; 130 tons raised in
the course of sinking were good enough to ship.
This show is 15 miles from Selwyn (Mount Elliott
township). Other options are also reported, includ-
ing the Labor Victory.
* * * *
In spite of the financial leeway that is
sure to be disclosed by Great Fitzroy’s half-
yearly report, the market jumped at the first sign of
a profit. But shareholders can’t afford to lose sight
of the fact that debenture interest takes a big share
of any good things that come along.
North Lyell is not shaping too well, so the
old footnote appears at the bottom of Sticht’s monthly
statement: “Blister copper output temporarily
affected by lower output from some of the stopes.
This isn’t inspiring, nor is it altogether candid, and
it is just as well that Bowes Kelly and Joe Syme
should be told the fact plainly and squarely. They
get £lOOO a year each, and it is up to them to
define just what “temporarily” means. If they
don’t know they had better bustle Sticlit up to give
the information. What is more, they owe it to the
shareholders to say what stopes are poor. In June
the output was 647 tons of copper. Now it is 511
tons. A shrinkage of 20 p.c. cannot be dismissed
lightly, and if Joe Syme were running the Age nowa-
days he would hit out. If it is the bottom level,
as is suspected, that is poor, there is more than one
reason why the cards should be laid on the^table.
Though it spent £4178 last half-year,
mostly on the one job, Lyell Blocks is making very
slow progress with its shaft, which is down about
750 ft. in a mixture of schist and hard conglomerate.
There is a heap to do yet before a prospecting crosscut
can be started in search of the North Lyell ore body.
The mineral seen in some of the sinking is, however,
considered a “good indication” —a half-brother to
the good intention which is used in one place for
paving-stones. Besides having to battle with very
hard rock, the co. occasionally meets a slippery head,
which further retards progress.
* * * *
The Mines Assets Purchase Co. has been
formed in London by Alexander Hill and Stewart,
mining engineers and metallurgists to the Lyell Com-
stock, Oonah, Queensland Copper Freeholds, Queens-
land Exploration, and other concerns. The idea is
to buv the plant and machinery of “bung’ mines,
and sell them to young, new, lusty concerns, full ot
ioie de vivre, and with plenty of cash at bankers.
The co. has a paid capital of £20,000. It s a good
scheme, and there’s money in it for people who
understand the second-hand machinery business.
Earl of Ranfurly has been talking glow-
ingly as chairman of the New Guinea Development
Co. Ex-Speaker Cowley, of Queensland, is local
director. The co. has 100,000 acres of plantation
land, and paid a shocking price for it, considering
what ex-Premier and book-agent Jenkins, of S’Aus-
tralia, got it at. The co. is digging plantations for
rubber and copra, and establishing trading stations
along the coast, and talks of harnessing the Rona
Falls on the Leloki River for producing power for
the “copper mines.” The “copper mines” of the
Astrolabe plateau are mostly oxidised ores occurring
in flat beds, and are a long way off requiring any
power worth mentioning.


CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
Vintage 1904.
Ne Plus Ultra.
Cfte “Sacred Oils
Absolutely the only remedy guaranteed to remove
lines and wrinkles, cure faded complexions, and tone-
up relaxed facial muscles. This secret compound
has been handed down from generation to generation,
until it has become the sole property of the Nuns of
Yaldajov, Servia.
“The Sacred Oils” possess a remarkable power in
removing those signs of age which most women
dread. No woman need have lines, crowsfeet, or
loose, baggy skin now that “The Sacred Oils” is
obtainable in Australia. Write, to Westall Guest,
Toilet Specialist, 38 Chapel Street, Windsor, Vic.
Advice and pamphlets free. Price, ss. bottle; postj
® s ' Sydney Agents —
MISS CUTHBERT, Otis Chambers, 82 King Street.
MRS. SHEARER, 54 Strand Arcade.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROS.
ROBUR
Nobody realises belter than
a hospital nurse the benefit of a
freshly made cup of tea. She
has to be always on the alert,
and from the time she goes on
duty till she comes off it’s one
constant strain—and if she is
in charge of a big ward she is
kept on her feet so much that
sometimes she feels just ready
to drop.
I fmd a cup of "Robur” tea
before I go on duty, and another
after I come off keeps me right
—I prefer the "Robur” to any
other tea because it is pure, and
because I’ve found it most
refreshing but there, you’ll know
all about it yourself when you
try it —The No. 1 Grade is the
tea you should get.
The Nurse.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1800, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, August 28, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
Melba, in her lovely nest at Rose Bay, with
an untrained feathered chorus addressing the
sunset in song from a giant Moreton Bay fig
opposite her hall door, is in joyous mood.
The Woman who has Achieved, she flirts
with Time, and snaps her fingers at snarls.
“But not always,” she says. “It hurts some-
times, when I’m working hard, to hear the
iies that are told about me.”
Impulsively, Melba pushes away a teacup,
and puts her hand on the table. “Here we
are, all together, like a lot of tiny black ants
struggling over the flat surface Then one,
more persevering, more gifted, perhaps, be-
gins to rise just a little above the others.
What happens? There is a rush to try to
drag that one down. Listen to me —nothing
is so much hated as Success! On the night
of my debut in Brussels, my husband, who
was not a goed-liumored man, heard a lady in
the next box say to the man with her,
‘Melba’s debut:? Nonsense! I heard her
hissed in Spain 10 years ago!’ My husband
went immediately to the box and spoke to
the man. ‘ls that lady your wife? Yes?
Well, the lady on the stage is my wife. This
is her debut in Europe, and, if you don’t
make your wife apologise for the lie I over-
heard, I’ll punch your head now.’ The
apology was made, and that slander went no
further. But you can’t often catch a lie in
the throat like that.”
Edging away from the prickly path of
Publicity, Melba talked gaily of Coombe Cot-
tage. “The surrounding country is beautiful,
and I love the place. My son is going to
farm 500 acres ; 75 acres with the cottage—
really a cottage, though it has a number of
rooms —I am going to reserve for myself.
Already the farm is in working order, and I
am making £5O a month out of the dairy
herd. I believe in the best—there are sev-
eral breeds, some Jerseys, but all the very
best milking strains. Coombe Cottage is a
great delight to me. I will spend some
months in each year there, and I have pre-
served its cottage character by furnishing it
simply—yet I think in an artistic manner.
Australian wood is used throughout, and
chintz draperies—water-colors on the walls,
and a few of my art treasures, but only those
that will harmonise with a country cottage.
I will keep on my London house, and won’t
move the collection of pictures, etc., away
from it.”
A flash of sunset from the watery west
made a broken ladder of gilt steps across the
harbor. Melba, in her Fernleigh nest,
watched the clearing of the storm in an
ecstasy over the enchanting scenic trimmings
of her present eyrie. “Let me tell you an-
other story to illustrate the extraordinary lies
that have pursued me right through my musi-
cal career. Nothing is too strange to be said
of me. In London I gave a friend, a Mrs.
Williams, a magpie, which, as a joke, she
called ‘Melba.’ One day she said to a visi-
tor : ‘Melba’ is getting very troublesome to
everyone. She has taken to eating mice, and
they make her very sick.’ The lady said,
‘How odd !’—nothing more. Will you believe
it, the story got about that I had taken to
eating mice, and that they made me so sick
that I couldn’t sing? Mrs. Williams, when she
heard this ridiculous fabrication —actually
believed, mind vou! —came to me in great
distress with the explanation. Lots of
people probably still think that I dine off
mice!”
The Melba co. eats its meals in a more ex-
pensive fashion than many of the wandering
minstrels who have preceded them here in
the Italian language. They arrived in a
flock at the Australia, rather shaken up by a
southerly gale, and took possession of suites
—not mere “bed and board.” This air of
luxury flings a golden haze round a cosmo-
politan aviary which says its grace in nine
languages.
Tenor John McCormack, with a large
waist, broad shoulders and a cheery, well-fed
appearance, has brought out a secretary and
nurse (the latter for the babies), and travels
like a globe-trotting governor or other poten-
tate in a good way of business.
“Private View” day at the Royal Art So-
ciety’s Show was nearly blotted out by last
week’s persistent rainfall. President Lister
Lister, Secretary Daplyn, Mr. Hadfield and
other R.A.S. members floated round amongst
friends, possible purchasers and stray um-
brellas. It was, altogether, a damp stream
of visitors that trickled in.
The price of vegetables has gone up. At
the R.A.S. display, Miss Margaret McPher-
son (Adelaide) asks 15 guineas for a cauli-
flower. Victorians, wdio recently sold cab-
bages at Is. 6d. each, ought to note this boom
in cauliflowers. Eggs laid in a glass bowd_,
by the same artist, are also marked 15
guineas. Norman Carter values a chintz sofa
at 150 guineas, but there are two Nice Girls
sitting on it, and a black cat that looks as
if its neck were getting tickled. Hans Iley-
sen has flooded his pictures with such a
blaze of s-olden sunshine that his water-color
group makes the adjacent herbage look
like a pale green ghost.
At the Criterion Theatre, Ethel Irving’s
teardrops are twinkling on her eyelashes
every evening except Sunday, amidst loud
applause. As Stella Ballantyne in “The
Witness for the Defence,” her clothes are
subservient to her sufferings, though both are
noticed with enthusiasm. There’s an azure
shimmer of satin, with a glitter of crystal
tunic and a film of tobacco brown. Both are
apparently built for a slim mermaid with no
knees and a fish-tail finish. Ethel Irving’s
walk is the graceful glide of the carefully-
trained, so she doesn’t wriggle in her eel-
skin draperies. She has an easier knee-
movement in an emotional interlude of vieux-
rose, with hand-embroidered motifs, and she
makes the Great Confession in a romantic
episode in brown, with an extra half-yard of
circumference.
Mason puts a subtle feminine touch into
Stella’s confession of her tragic misdeed.
“And —afterwards —l went to bed —I sup-
posed was numbed —or dulled with the misery
of it —if you’ll believe me” (sinks into a
chair), “I really did go to sleep.” From the
gallery, on the first night, floated “Poor
Wretch!” a spontaneous chunk of sympathy
from woman to woman. This emotional
type, the Stella Ballantynes, with nerves
like twisted fiddle-strings, probably would fall
asleep, after a sudden, abnormal crime, from
sheer physical reaction.
Florence Nelson (Mrs. Pettifer) clothes
Grundyism in a carefully-revised edition of
the Worst Girl’s usually-shrieking attire.
Copper-tinted locks, an aggressive blue coat
and skirt, and a saucy hat with a riotous
feather give a frivolous appearance to Mrs.
Pettifer’s remarks. In spite of this cheerful
garb, she is an elderly lady cat, who knows
her duty to Society, and scratches Stella in
the same old place—behind her back.
Her Majesty’s manager’s box on Saturday
night—“ Miss Gibbs” was again in business
at the old stand—contained more diamonds
than Sydney has seen on one lady’s head for
a long while, and the bouse soon had its eyes
on them and on Melba, who was re-
sponsible for the show of wealth. At the
conclusion of the piece, Leslie Holland ad-
dressed the house, drew its attention (quite
unnecessarily) to the Presence, and
called for three cheers ; and the stage told
her that she .was a jolly good fellow. The
Presence bowed its thanks over the edge of
the box.
ELEONORA DE CISNEROS, OF THE
MELBA OPERA CO.
Photo, by Matzene, Chicago.
Greenoaks, where the Mort family lived
in the long ago, had a christening party on
Saturday, and now wears a new clerical bib
and tucker as Bishopscourt. Henceforth it is
to be the permanent roost of Sydney’s Angli-
can head. The Randwick house, where the
smiling Smiths had to deal out soft drinks
and buns to swarms of clergy at the occa-
sional garden-party, was too far from the
city for practical purposes. Canon D’Arcy
Irvine presented the new Anglican baby with
its official right to the label “Bishopscourt” ;
and St. Andrew’s Choir gave a musical trim-
ming to the water-party.
The “authority to whom a mistake in the
matter should be impossible ” did, neverthe-
less, err in saying that Archbishop Kelly,
who succeeds the late Cardinal Moran as
local head of the R.C. flock, is suffering
from inoperable cancer. Dr. Flynn, the
Archbishop’s adviser, certifies that he lias
never found a trace of the disease, inoper-
able or otherwise: and that ought to allay
any uneasiness which may have been felt in
the diocese. My inaccurate authority mingles
his regrets with a much larger quantity of
gladness; and I fill up the vessel with the
same mixture.
Eleonora de Cisneros, of the Melba Opera
Co., stands sft, Bm. in her black silk stock-
ings, and the other day she showed the gener-
ous curves of Juno under a black glace silk
hip jacket, and unhobbled skirt en suite,
short enough to give a pair of shapely ankles
plenty of fresh-air exercise. She is large
and handsome, and runs well in double har-
ness; has acquired from her Cuban husband
a Spanish flavor to her remarks; was born
in U.S. of Irish and Scottish parents; got
her Puritan grey eyes from the Land of
Kilts, and her spicy manner from the Green
Isle; has a voice described as “mezzo-
soprano-contralto,” and makes her debut here
in Delilah.
Samson, in opera, will have a poor chance
of saving his hair when Eleonora-Delilah
meets him in one of Paquin’s classic creations
(no corsets, and early-Eastern fashion plates
faithfully copied)—a vision of pink and sil-
ver, with flowers embossed . ail over her
radiant person. In the American fashion,
Eleonora goes to Paris for her frocks, and
the tags in her waist-bands are all stamped
“Paquin” ; she may even go to Paris when she
dies. Nevertheless, she was the first, or one
of the first, home-trained grand-opera artists
in the U.S., though she put the polish on her
experience by brilliant seasons in Italv and
at Covent Garden.
“Rosna's” line or two from London :
Marie Narelle is back, with a forest of laurels, col-
lected in her tour, with John McCormack, of Uncle
Sam’s country. According to American critics, our
Marie is the greatest living singer of Irish songs,
and she will set off to sample a further triumpnal
progress as soon as John McCormack is through
with the Melba opera season in Australia. Looking
a very radiant nightingale, with a green feather nod-
ding in her millinery, she wandered into the Aus-
tralian garden revel at the Dominions Club the
other day, with Emily Soldene and a troop of
friends. She is rejoicing in the possession of a dove-
cote at Bayswater, and has her two musical babes
with her.
Stormy petrels and other human water-
fowl paddled through the wet streets last
week, and some of them dived into Vickery’s
Chambers, to drip amongst the Arts and
Crafts Society’s exhibits. A one-day show
a month is the society’s new outbreak, and
several inches of rain fell on the first effort.
Eirene Mort’s designs generally get out of
(the ruck, and a flight of black swans across
a idloudless sky of red leather made a Blotter
of Beauty. Mildred Creed’s enamelling, rich
in opalescent fires of blue, green, and crim-
son, was tucked away in a snug glass case.
Mrs. Soderberg hand-beats brass till it rises
up into dragons and other wild beasts. Mary
Makinson carves -wood into bough and bud.
Various other Arts-and-Crafters were repre-
sented, and a life-saving apparatus—hot tea,
etc.—was produced at 4 p.m., to resuscitate
the Nearly Drowned.
Outside the Y.W.C.A. Hall last week a
motor or two puffed petrol fumes into the wet
atmosphere while the Women’s Conference
galloped through a few hospitals and other
charities under the wing of the National
Council of Women. The plain person merely
exuded mud, and squelched up the stairs to
the hall, in or out of goloshes, according to
her view of rubber. A 10-minute time limit
had been set on the speakers; but the lady
bellringer tactfully concealed her crime by
getting well into the background, and hiding
round one corner of the organ.
The woman wdio will surrender without a
kick to the tinkle of a bell is, however, either
dead or dumb. Each speaker fled from the
Y.W.C.A. Hall platform when the Lady with
the Clock gave the alarm, but each in turn
made a magnificent rally, and got in back-an-
swers from the floor during the long-drawn-out
discussions. An outline of the history of Syd-
ney could be given in less time than it took
the loquacious to get to the point. The
Admiralty Lady presided on the second day,
with Mrs. Hugh Dixson close to her left ear.
Mrs. McMillan, the Calico Knight’s lady,
wearing her lately-returned London garb,
confirmed the local impression that flowers
are going to polka up the sides of summer
hats.
Dr. Constance D’Arcy, who got away at a
gallop on the track of the Royal Hospital
for Women; Dr. Carlile Fox, on Sydney
Medical Mission (“They call us the three-
penny doctors”) ; and the Health Society
lady, o© dirty drains, germs, insanitary tele-
phones, and other crimes (“still fighting”)—-
these ran away from all competition on the
second day of the Conference.
The Bathurst Suttor family is spreading
over this part of the earth, and one tendril,
Bruce Suttor, has crossed the harbor and
■climbed up to the rose gardens of Chatswood.
By way of a send-off, there was a silver-
plated gathering of the clan around the
bridal veil of the Bruce Suttor daughter when
she married Dr. Frank Stokes the other day.
Parson Beck tied the knot in St. John's
Church, Darlinghurst.
Solicitor Wegg Horne, who married Mrs.
Kathleen Kentish, of this city, in the fore-
part of August, is bringing his little lady-
bird back to her Sydney nest this week.
They honeymooned in the Cabbage Patch.
From London :
The J. C. Williamsons have taken George Ed-
wardes’s house in Park Square, London. But they
don’t intend to absolutely vegetate in it. Business
arranged; they propose to set out on a series of long
motor whirls through Ireland, Wales, Scotland, and
- 'Other wild and little-inhabited parts.
Mrs. Paterson, the sister and guest of our
strenuous Rose Bay skylark, is a gentle, soft-
voiced woman, with a Whistler atmosphere
about her slender lines. The occupation of
sometimes sistering anything built, mentally
and physically, in the colossal style .of
Melba, is akin to sending out to sea a small
yacht to act as consort to a battleship.
The late artist Arthur Collingridge’s son,
William E. Collingridge, was married the
■other day amongst the hills and dales near
Ryde (Villa Maria Church was the place),
to Miss Mary Heydon, only daughter of L. F.
Heydon, M.L.C., and Mrs. Heydon, of Hun-
, ter’s Hill. The brothers George and Arthur
Collingridge, both artists, came out to this
patch from overseas, to do wood-engravings
for the Picturesque Atlas. The family has
a roving history; Artist George shook a fist
in the Italian scrap which had Garibaldi for
a storm centre.
Australian Kebe Kussmann, the girl fiddler
who recently snared the Guild Hall gold
medal in the Thames village, is still winning
rewards. The last is an open scholarship
worth 20 guineas a year for three years. The
Merchant Saddlers of London are responsi-
ble for this bursary.
Leopold of Battenberg, whose soulful eyes
and eggshell china complexion were noticed
in these parts last year, recently had the bad
luck to begin breaking himself up in the
Cold Land by a spill from his horse. After
a world’s tour in the hope of getting himself
mended, Leopold’s last breakage has added
another pang to the meditations of ambitious
Beatrice, who has the Spanish succession to
keep her awake o" nights.
The last symphony orchestral concert of
the season will shaae its SO iiddles in the
Town Hall on Saturday afternoon.
Acting-Premier Holman and Mrs. Edge-
worth iuavid will sprinkle the \v attle L»ay
League meeting with a few Australian senti-
ments on the evening of September 1: The
King’s Hall will be the place. At the same
meeting Mr. Bruce Smith will switch him-
self off the All-Ited route for a few minutes,
and present the wattle-brand of citizen with
some home-grown remarks.
Novelist Myrtle Reed, who suicided re-
cently, got on the trail of the unsatisfactory
husband in her last book, “Master of the
Vineyard.” This makes a new note of in-
terest, remembering the alleged reason for
her sudden exit. The dismal line of dedi-
cation, "To all who have loved in vain,” is
also full of female blues.
Dairy Instruction, as it has recently been
chased by girl students at the Technical
College, is not without unexpected sharp
corners. The reason has been the moving-in
of the Agricultural branch to old Ultimo
House, now a Government preserve. A wildly-
horned tale about a dairy damsel who
wanted information re milk testing, but ac-
cidentally imbibed a lecture on the points
of a horse, comes this way. It was, of
course, all owing to the unsettled condition
of the College furniture that the milk-tester
was doomed for a time to swallow horse-
flesh—in the abstract, of course.
Mortimer Menpes, of Australia, has given
the Commonwealth, in gratitude to his
native land, a desirable assortment of his
copies of Old Masters. They run to half a
hundred or so, and big William Lyne has
them stowed away amongst his incoming
baggage. . ~
Yours, with a broad mb.
VANDORIAN.


The NclSoq Mooarcb
AOtorpatic Carboi)ator.
I
Not only the best at the price, but
best at any price.
Saves you Money every day.
Does away with the drudgery incident
to charging portable cylinders.
The saving in gas more than pays the
interest on the outlay.
CONTINUOUS. When we say “continuous”
we mean that the carbonated water
can be drawn continuously from this
apparatus without blowing off the
gas to refill the cylinder. This
machine will carbonate the water
as fast as it can be drawn off at
the Fountain. Every particle of
gas that the consumer pays for is
utilised. The saturation is complete.
The only human aid that is neces-
sary is to connect a fresh tube
of gas.
We are SPECIALISTS in this line, and supply goods that are
always dependable. Anything you want in the Soda
Fountain line from a Straw to a Soda Fountain.
We have secured the order for the Crystal Palace Fountains,
George Street, Sydney, the largest in Australia. Total
length 28ft. This being a repeat order.
Let us quote you for anything you may require.
Nelsoi) Carboijatiog Co. Ltd.,
167 deorge Street, SYDN€Y.
Queensland Agents: Messrs. Short 8 Wilkins, 349 Queen Street, Brisbane.
“Selling = Like = Ripe - Cherries.”
STEELE RUDD’S —
GREAT
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
SANDY’S SELECTION.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
ON OUR SELECTION.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
THE POOR PARSON.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
FOR LIFE.
DAD IN POLITICS.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
THE DASHWOODS.
IN CHEAP EDITIONS.
PRICE 1 1- EACH.
Post Free, 1/1.
All the CELEBRATED
ILLUSTRATIONS have
Deen RETAINED, as these
new Cheap Editions are
printed from the ORIGIN-
AL STEREOS.
OVER £lO,OOO WORTH OF “ON OUR SELECTION” AND “OUR NEW SELECTION”
have been sold in AUSTRALIA,
A FACT that speaks volumes for their popularity.
THOUSANDS of admirers of STEELE RUDD, who could not hitherto afford the pro-
hibitive price of his books, can now LAUGH with the best.
Uniform with the above, “THE BULLETIN RECITER.”
ARE NOW OBTAINABLE AT ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.. 476 George-street, Sydney.
HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL ||||| JEWELLERS.
HARDY BROTHERS’ CELEBRATED PLATE.
SPECIAL
PRESENTATION
CANTEEN.
CONTENTS-
-12 Table Forks
12 Dessert Forks
12 Table Spoons
12 Dessert Spoons
12 Tea Spoons
1 Sugar Spoon
1 Gravy Spoon
1 Soup Ladle
2 Sauce Ladles
1 Pair Sugar Tongs
12 Pairs Pearl Dessert
Knives
12 Pairs Fish Eaters
1 Pair Fish Carvers
1 Pair Fruit Spoons
1 Pair Nut Crackers
1 Pair Knife Rests
12 Ivory Handled Tabic
Knives
12 Ivory Handled Des-
sert Knives
2 Pair Ivory Handled
Carvers
1 Ivory Handled Steel
£46
il tl
»A
SS?
-
CANTEENS OF
SPOONS AND
FORKS
from
£7 15s.
to
£BO.
WRITE FOR
SPECIAL ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
INSPECTION
INVITED.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
London Office Address: 19 Charterhouse Street, Holborn Circus, E.C.


Rumpuses such as occurred in the Sydney
Assembly recently are inevitable when men-
tal conflict reaches an acute stage. The cru-
dities of political emotions are best smoothed
out by the harmonising influence of D.C.L.
wisdom. To banish uproarious pugnacity
with the spirit of wise geniality is the in-
spiring policy of D.C.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
The Rapid Healer.
Eexona provides the latest short cut of Science to
a complete remedy for Pimples, Boils, Sores, Wounds
and Skm Diseases generally. Which road will you
take, reader? The old-fashioned, tedious, long way
round, full of irritations, relapses and delays, or the
short cut to the rapid remedy which modern science
has provided you in the shape of Rexona? Sold in
triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
1911
Early Spring
Showing,
We are now showing
many charming models in
Millinery and Ladies'
Costumes adv an c e
styles from Paris and
London, that are solely
our own importations.
Many of the new suit-
ings are in resilda, and
stripes are much favored.
Fancy linens, Shantungs
and Tussores promise to
retain their popularity.
To those desirous of se-
curing exclusive designs
in Spring and Race Cos-
tumes to measure, we
strongly advise the early
placing of orders, whilst
our Workrooms are not
over-taxed. Customers
may write and reserve
their place in our list,
thus ensuring prompt
delivery of their Dresses
or Costumes.
Ball & Welch Pty■
Ltd.,
180-188 Flinders Street ,
MELBOURNE .
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 28, 1911.
Mr Dear Tarrie, —
The Melbourne Medical Association pre-
scribed refreshments and speeches for itself,
at the Grand Hotel, on Saturday night. Gov-
ernor Fuller was the guest of the evening,
and only managed to get away in time to
pick up her Ex. at the conclusion of the
H. B. Irving play.
The alterations to Her Majesty’s kept the
audience interested before the curtain rose
and during the waits. Buff and gold are the
groundwork of the new decorative scheme:
a vivid line of scarlet binds circle and boxes,
and clustered electrics glow like magnolia
blossoms. The eight boxes have crushed-
mouse curtains and dead-lion walls; the
effect of these subdued colors is to throw
brilliant toilettes into strong relief.
Lady Fuller walked over a scarlet carpet
to her box, and an aide unwrapped her
from her enveloping sables, and disclosed her
clad in a greenish blue frock —a striking
Eeacock effect. A tiara which flashed like a
rst-class lighthouse was the top dressing,
llis Ex. was dining with the doctors else-
where; so the two gentlemen-helps were in
plain evening dress, without the usual col-
ored lapels.
Mrs. Tallis, in white, occupied the next
box, with a very pleased husband. Fan
Dango had a woman’s party in another pen ;
and ex-Mayor Weedon and his lady beamed
from a higher niche. A prominent military
man sat back in another cage, with a wife
clau in black and gold. The best shelf of
all, though, was the one which contained a
bouquet of five pretty girls.
Artist Dancey has made a hit with two
large panels, one on either side of the
proscenium. The figures are, as usual, Trag-
edy and Comedy; but Dancey’s pair arrest
the eye and keep it in custody. The foyer
has a new outbreak of cretonne, which is
almost loud enough to interrupt the chatter
of the loungers. In the coffee corner, how-
ever, the chair costumes are soft ivory and
rose chintz. The Brenan girls have, by the
way, taken possession of this intermittent
foodery. The waiting is done by smart
maids in black, with cherry-colored ribbons
on their tiny muslin aprons. Similar visions
carry the sweets around the circle, and, if
you desire it, book your table an act in ad-
vance for the next interval.
A swaggah club has been simmering with
rage ever since the farewell dinner it ten-
dered to a departed notability. Many of the
members declined to attend until they had
been rounded up by a horrified president,
who preached to them with “club courtesy”
as a text. The intending absentees ceded
the point, and agreed to sit at salt with the
departing one. They duly attended, and all
went fairly well till the guest of the even-
ing rose at speechifying time and spoke
wrathfully to the roomful of men on the
attitude they had adopted towards him.
When he had quite finished, the stunned
gathering took the full count lying back in
its collective chair, while the awed waiters
stepped lightly like undertakers. The sore-
ness has not worn off yet.
Every chocolate-fed dog aristocrat had its
owner on a string on Friday, when the
Ladies’ Kennel Club opened its show at
Wirths’ Park. Secretary Nancy Grice was
dragged to the place of judgment by her
wire : haired pet. Mrs. Carlyle Smythe
hurried after a big Irish terrier; while her
sister, Miss Addie Smythe, was towed by
“Highgate Nell,” a taker of many prizes.
Miss Hope-Campbell, an Irish girl with a
Scotch name, had her work cut out to hold
her two excited collies —two Scotch dogs
with Irish names, “Derry Boy” and “Blar-
ney Girl.” She and Miss Bagot worked
hard at hanging up the prize-winners’ cards,
for an anxious world must know as soon as
possible just where the' winners are.
Lady Denman came along in the morning.
“She knows dogs all right,” commented some
dog-lover; “she lets them sniff her hand be-
fore patting them.” Big dogs are her fav-
orites. There were only two or three St.
Bernards in the show; our warm climate
plays up with the tempers of the heavily-
coated things, so there are not many of them
in the country. In Germany they shave
dogs for the s,ummer, and large animals run
about short-coated, like lions, except for a
ruff round the neck.
The Smythes’ Irish terrier, “Highgate
Nell,” a “well-featured” matron, had to sit
humbly under a third-prize ticket, and see
her puppy “Marcus” carry off the first. Dr.
Iredell’s imported bulldog, “Hilltown Doc-
tor,” planted his bandy legs firmly on his
bench and managed to score a special, but
could not beat the Australian-bred cham-
pions. Mrs. Ernest Keep’s Pomeranian,
“Tinker Bell,” kept up the doggy records of
the family, but looked a bit anxious when
someone mentioned that Mrs. Keep was
bringing out some new rivals from the place
where the breed is treated reverently. The
Australian terriers were a disappointingly
mixed lot. Every kind of small, rough-
haired barking machine seems to be eligible
for the Australian bench. The real Aus-
tralian dog is the wonderfully clever kelpie,
descendant of the short-haired collie of Scot-
land and the lawless dingo. After the judg-
ing, there was a tented lunch, at which the
women talked results, and the dogs held a
yelping convention, which was almost as
noisy as the Ma State’s Parliament last
week.
Some of the Very Best sports took a lively
interest in the Denmans at their first Aus-
tralian hunt. The little G.-G., perched on
a fine bit of horseflesh, took the first high
jump in gallant style; but the lady waited
until the top rail was lowered, and then
made for the gap, followed by a discreet
gentleman-in-waiting. The perils of the
chase are much tempered to a gent-in-wait-
ing unless he insists on restoring the top
rail to its place before pursuing his course
of duty.
Smart womankind, grown wise in domes-
tic experiences, smiles at the optimism of
those newchum friends of the G.-G. who have
started a suburban residence with the idea
that one maid-of-all-work and a nurse (there
are two kiddies) will “do for them” very
nicely. _ The newchums’ views of a Mary
Ann’s tireless devotion to duty are so essen-
tially English, you know. They haven’t yet
been confronted with a Mary Ann who puts
you through a catechism before stating that
you will not suit.
Mrs. Harper caught two Governors’ wives
with one At Home, and Toorak smiled en-
viously. The drawing card was the Victoria
League of Victoria, of which impressive as-
sembly the hostess holds the rank of chair-
woman of the Hospitality Committee. Lady
Fuller was invited to “meet” Lady Denman,
and the League members were invited to meet
them both. It was a crowded function, for
Toorak came in force, and many fine ostrich
feathers were roughly treated. Mrs. Ewart
waved the women of the V.L.V. Choir
through several numbers; Jessie Masson
played the piano, and pretty Mrs. Carmen
I'mschof Harris sang a song composed by
Mrs. Ewart. Later on the company re-
paired to another apartment filled with small
tables, and fed to dance music supplied by a
band in the hall. The Denman secretary
and a Fuller aide were the only men present.
So late did the Excellencies stay that the
people who departed early had to walk to
the gate to enmotor, for the Denman car-
riage and the yellow Fuller motor were in
the porch, and none might burn oil before
them. On departing, a purple footman re-
spectfully enveloped the Denman lady in her
chinchilla coat, while the shover of the
Yellow Peril held the door for the sub-Excel-
lency.
Mere carriage folk have to be acrobats;
the low, convenient motor is mounted with
ease even by the gouty. After the V.L.V.
gathering at Mrs. Harper’s, Lady Denman
showed several inches of trim ankle when
getting into the landau for the homeward
drive; Mrs. Holroyd had to have the assist-
ance of the footman to climb into her phae-
ton ; and a Sassiety lady who keeps to the
sedate brougham showed the other guests a
full sample of the latest silk hose as she
pulled herself up to her seat.
The new boom in skating has brought a
fresh crop of slipping novices on to the ice.
Onlookers, with their toes resting on the
hot-water pipes, revel in the contortion acts
of the dogged learners. Some of them walk
heavily on their skates, and wait wretchedly
for the floor to hit them on the back of the
head; others, more dashing, do (or dare)
“the glide,” and pull up with a dislocating
jerk like trains when the Westinghouse is
jambed hard on. The grave and graceful
instructors lightly cut eights in a superior
way, supporting themselves meanwhile by
stroking the atmosphere with white-gloved
hands. Wide-eyed flapper pupils watch
these exquisite performers with a longing,
hopeless air.
A fancy-dress carnival is to slither this
(Thursday) evening at the Glassy Harem,
under vice-regal patronage.
George Armstrong de Melba is seen around
Melbourne again, with white spats at one»
end of him and a paddy-green lid at the other.
George’s metropolitan air is more blase than
ever, but down at Lilydale he perturbs the
countryside by his reckless galloping and
leaps over local hedges. That is to say, the
gee-gee gallops and leaps whilst George pre-
serves an easy demeanor on top. As a bold
horseman, he is undeniably It.
It’s understood that the Vera Clarke-Lan-
dale engagement, lately announced, will not
reach its matrimonial destination until the
gallant captain's clan is quite out of mourn-
ing for the death of Landale pere.
Alderman Brenan’s dimpled daughter
Maggie was quietly married, on Monday of
last week, to Mr. Bird, and her seven sisters
waved her a happy farewell at Spencer-
street, as the Sydney express bore her olf
with her husband for a Harborside honey-
mooning. Only the members of the family
were invited to the marrying; but the church
was packed with friends who came deter-
mined to see the popular girl in her white
satin and orange blossom. Mrs. Bird is the
sister who helped Jennie Brenan most with
her ballet drills.
The stage-struck ones, looking for personal
items re the Chocolate Soldier co., remark
that the tenor, Noel Fleming, has a wife in
attendance, and that the very Italian-looking
contralto brightens her embonpoint with some
beautiful diamonds in private life.
At a recent House of Commons dinner
given by the Doughtys, Arthur Balfour sat
on the right of the lady who was “Try-
phena,” while Father Bernard Vaughan sat
on her left. More than this the social
climber cannot hope to achieve. It is the
dizzy limit.
Princess Hassan(who was Ola Jane Hum-
phrey) turned up at the M.L. Wards’ fare-
well party in London. Her hair has taken
on a marvellous Titian tint, and her gown of
white lace was a creation to dream about.
Mrs. Felix Levien is back again in Vic-
toria after some years spent in England.
She was in a motor accident some time ago,
and, as a result, was still on crutches when
sailing-day arrived. However, on the home-
ward voyage she picked up wonderfully,
and, after landing, went on to Mildura to
see her son.
The Jack Wallaces, who . lately acquired
a new baby, are giving up their house in
JLoorak, and making for the land again. The
W. J. T. Clarkes are taking the place for a
term of years, so the smart chicks of the
family are evidently bent on the complete
social conquest of Melbourne.
Miss Eileen Gordon, daughter of the irre-
pressible General, is off to Sydney to study
singing under Madame Christian. Lately
she was having a breezy time at Warrnam-
bool with the Joe Archibalds.
A young spinster of the newly-arrived
G.-G. party sets an example of economy.
Apparently she brought out from England
a stock of mother’s visiting cards, and these
she utilises by striking out the “Mrs.” and
substituting “Miss.”
One of the Osterley’s wool-buying
contingent got up a flirtation with a
pretty homing Coronateur. But one
day, whilst the ship was tied up at
one of the intermediate ports, Mr. Wool was
discovered hugging a delectable girl visitor.
Miss Coronateur indulged in some hysterics,
but forgave the faithless one when the ship
got out to sea. At the next port, however,
she cast him off for ever. This time there
were two strange women competing for the
long lost hug.
Radical Parson Strong, who years ago
left the Scotch Church, and, with his large
following, formed the Australian Church, is
being moved on from the high-stepped taber-
nacle in smoky Ffinders-street. The place
originally cost £23,000, and there is still a
debilitating debt of about £ll,OOO on it.
Wherever he g;oes, Strong will take his
young men with him; for the young
male person to whom other pilots appeal in
vain goes to Strong in such numbers that
the best Sunday hat of the female worship-
per generally appears as a florid island of
millinery in a sea of male domes.
A Bulletin penwoman in London tells
me that she at a Suffragette meeting
given by the Actresses’ Franchise League at
the Piccadilly Restaurant, and found a
swagger and frocky function, hostessed by
Bendigo’s Alice Crawford. “The Australian
damsel, in a frock of old-rose silk and some
black and white millinery, was remarkably
good to see, in spite of the fact that sickness
had lately wrested her from her part in
‘Dombey and Son.’ One of the bright
speakers of the afternoon, by the way, was
the wife of novelist Zangwill. They are
cute folk who engineer the suffrage societies
on this side, and none of the speeches are
dull, whatever else they may be.”
For weeks past, the members of Mel-
bourne’s oldest club for women have been
shaking in their shoes (as much as high
heels would let them). Writs for libel are
fearsome things to carry round in one’s muff,
and everyone wants to know when the case
is to be called. Nice young women are con-
tinually button-holing busy men-o’-law for
information regarding the programme of the
day; but, as the divorce harvest is just being
reaped, most of the men who wear sofa
stuffing on their heads are too busy getting
their home-shattering documents together to
bother with agitated clubeens.
A male scoffer writes:—
The stem, inflexible respectability of the Women’s
Nat. Pol. League was revealed to me in one act the
other morning. A middle-aged lady, with a bauble
at her breast, sat opposite me in a tram-car, and her
air of self-sufficiency as she studied her notebook
denoted a long experience in addressing meetings
and moving resolutions. The bauble, attached to a
bow of ribbon, told its tale in capital letters—
W.N.P.L., or was it W.P.N.L. ? There was a neat-
ness and unpretentious expensiveness about the lady's
attire which seemed intended to invite admiration
mingled with awe. 1 coughed once or twice, hoping
she might offer me a jujube, but it didn’t come off.
Then the tram conductor came along to take her
fare. She tendered half a crown, and received
2s. 3d. in small change. Coin by coin she dropped
the change into her handbag—all save a threepenny-
bit, which she returned to the conductor with,
“Please give me another one for this. It is rather
battered.” Sworn enemy to all disreputable things,
from Socialistic principles right down to question-
able thrums I
The literary circle of the Swastika Club is
struggling hard to get several floors above
the hat-gossip level of most feminine clubs.
On Thursday afternoon, a full house of
women listened reverently to the reading of
a paper by Mrs. Porter on the homes of
Lowell and Emerson. Unie Russell recited
“Miles Standish,” and provided some choice
musical morsels; Miss Green sang a few of
Longfellow’s songs, which have been set to
music by her cousin, Marian Alsop; and
Miss Boyes mentioned melodiously that “The
Sea Hath Its Pearls,” though up at Thirsty
Island they complain that a man has to dive
a lot deeper these days to find them. Tea
was provided at a number of small tables.
President Mrs. Staughton took Mrs. J. L.
Currie and a Molesworth Greene representa-
tive to her corner. The literary secretary,
Miss Ilurst, is arranging a Browning after-
noon for the middle of September, so the cul-
ture-climbing is to go on. With a judicious
mixture of music and tea, the crowd may be
enticed right up to the roof garden.
The charity dance flourished exceedingly
this winter, and now, with Spring knocking
on the door with a branch of wattle, Mrs.
Staughton means to go one better than all
the crowd with her Try Boys’ hop. It is
to be held on the eve of the Caulfield Cup,
“when all my friends will be down,” saith
the Widow. No doubt Woolocracy will
dutifully two-step up with its half-guineas
and make it a big success. All the Handles
in Melbourne have promised to act on the
committee with the whole flock of mayor-
esses.
There is a dreadful boom in ancestors just
now. A girl portrait-painter, who had des-
pairfully given up Art for crochet and other
sedentary vices, was moved to get out her
brushes by meeting an unusually pretty girl.
The completed picture was much admired,
and the result was a visit from the sitter’s
mother, who, after pressing a handsome fee
into the artist’s hand, requested her to pro-
vide some far-back grandfathers and grand-
mothers. A cheerful girl-artist is now very
busy hunting up old, distinguished-looking
models and studying antique costumes in
dusty libraries.
Mrs. Professor Peterson has a daughter
who plays the flute. She is in her teens, and
has an original style of hairdressing—two
long Marguerite plaits rolled twice round her
small head. The effect is very smart.
The Underwoods are giving their dance in
the Haw-Hawthorn Town Hall at the end of
the month. The family own a few vaults of
the Sanderson shipping wealth, and great
things are expected.
Norman and Dorothy Vane Menzies are
threatening a children’s fancy dress and pos-
ter ball for charity towards the end of Sep-
tember The lounge of the big hotel is to be
reserved tor the affair, and it is understood
that no grown-up will be admitted unless
acting as attendant to some infant.
Perhaps the recent outbreak in England
was the aftermath of the Coronation free-
dinners. When half-starved Oliver Twist
revolted and smote the bully on the nose, the
Beadle remarked: “Too much meat!” and
put the insurgent on a low diet. Fortu-
nately for the Earl of Shares and the Duke of
Hividends, Coronations only come at lon®'
intervals; if there were free food once a
month, there is no telling what the dreadful
rabble might not be up to!
n ? e f Majesty’s, on Friday night, sounded
and looked very unlike a favorite amuse-
ment house. It breathed fresh paint and re-
echoed the furious toil of a regiment of men
armed mostly with hammers. Sassiety has
now eight boxes wherein to disport ‘ltself,
lhe inner walls are covered with dull gold
tapestry, and the perches are admirably
adapted for showing off the boxed peacocks
to the rest of the house. This tremendously
important point has hitherto not been
studied sufficiently in Australia ; to heaps of
women the play is only half the thing—the
frock is the other half. Both circle and
gallery benefit by the added boxes. The two
haif-cirdes are shaped like horseshoes, and
the latecomer at the end gets almost as good
a view as the early-booker in the centre.
Iwo gold, flower-wreathed cherubs frolic
over the boxes, and the proscenium rests in
a rising sun of electrics and painted rays.
At the end of the winter, brand-new radia-
frosts* 1 " 0111186 a cora^or^ln §' Protection against
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Our Grand National meeting opened on Saturday
There was a big crowd of women, mostly coat-and-
skirted. The Government House box held only the
Admiral and Captain Fletcher, the feminine portion
mTT S l lU i n S y dne y- Eager raised
joy in the hearts of the few who backed him bv
’ n Stepney Welter, £22 for second
place. Mr. R. M. Hawker scored wins with Ilar-
pargus and Tiercel and Mr. A. P. Bowman got a
second with The Greek. Yudnapinna, who carried
off honors m the Grand National Hurdle Race, is
the property of W. T. Mortlock; so, between
Hawkers and Bowmans and Mortlocks, the squatters
had a good day.
The St. Peter’s College sports fell on the same dav
as the races, and took a -crowd of relatives and
school girls out to the college grounds. An outbreak
of measles cast a faint tinge of gloom over the
revels. The C.J.’s lady gave away the prizes: she
was supported by the usual band of officials and
college governors.
A house in North Adelaide has been leased for
the Bishop and his family while their rightful home
is being repaired. The temporary residence is no
palace; and, oddly enough, it’s situated immediately
next an R.O. church and priorv.
Mayor Cohen has brought 'back with him plans
and specifications of the King Edward memorial.
The statue, which is cited in good Yankee fashion
as “the largest in Australia,” is to be located near
Government House gates, an arrangement which will
force Venus to move eastwards and make room.
Sculptor Mackennal, who has charge of the work,
declares it a two years’ task.
From the North comes this tale: After a dance,
at which the supper was of the usual country order
—good and plenty—the key of the supper-room door
was found to be missing, and so the remains of the
feast could not be adequately secured. One brave,
having his suspicions, volunteered as watchman, and
after a lonely vigil had his patience rewarded by the
sight of a trio of erstwhile guests making their way
carefully into the room 1 History doesn’t relate
what ensued, but in that town three names are miss-
ing from the visiting books of the elect.
There are rumors that a church pageant is under
weigh, and that the Theatre Royal is to be hired for
the purpose. What the early-Victorian section of
the Anglicans will say, goodness knows, but some of
them are likely to be eloquent.
Hunting enthusiasts j’umped over some fresh coun-
try near Largs Bay at their last run. Dr. Morris
and Captain Osborne were responsible for the inno-
vation. Fences had to be capped, and new “metal”
rolled for the comfort of “roadsters,” so the two
spent a busy week of preparation. The move was
necessary, owing to the invasion of one-time subur-
ban runs by electric trams and red-roofed “villas.”
Lady and Miss Bosanqiiet returned from Sydney on
Wednesday with Mr. Rowe. Mrs. Rowe is due to
arrive from England some time next month.
Spring is on us—we know it by the new finery in
the shops, a blaze of spring flowers in the gardens,
and a few odd garden parties. The Waites’ home
at Glen Osmond boasts one of the best gardens we
have, an! the women folk who foregathered there
at an At Home last week, came away wildly j'ealous.
The house stands on a rise, with park-like grounds
sloping before it towards a ribbon of sea in the dis-
tance.
Street verandahs are the latest subject of argu-
ment ; some say they’re architectural eye-sores, others
say they’ve their uses in hot and wet weather. If
the removal of the verandahs will be followed by
a removal of the dead-beats who lounge against
their posts, they may well be spared. Otherwise it
seems a pity to condemn them in a country where
the thermometer has such lofty ambitions.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


THERE seems to be a widespread idea that Beauty Culture is a luxury which
lies only within the reach of those who are blessed with a superfluity of this
world’s goods. It is true that complicated Face Treatments, which require
infinite skill and experience on the part of the operator, are expensive ; but that a
moderately good complexion cannot be improved and preserved by a simple home-
treatment, without the expenditure of a considerable sum of money, is a fallacy
which should long since have died a natural death.
Australia’s leading Face Specialist, Madame Helena Rubinstein, of 274
Collins Street, Melbourne, and 158 Pitt Street, Sydney, who has the distinction
of commanding very high fees for special professional services, for the best of
leasons, of course—that she produces results that satisfy her numerous clients—-on
being consulted on this point, unhesitatingly gave it as her opinion that the woman
who can only afford to spend jfx to a year on her complexion may do an
amazing amount of good for herself.
She should first of all provide herself with a
jar of Valaze, the marvellous Skin Food, which
beautifies the skin as no ordinary face cream has
power to do. This preparation removes freckles
and blotches, moderates lines and wrinkles until
the complexion is soft, smooth and flawless, and
m place of sallowness appear the beautiful pink
and white tints of a perfectly healthy skin.
She should next get a jar of Novena Cerate,
which is, without doubt, one of the finest skin
cleansers (without the use of soap or water) in
existence, and which not only cleans the outer sur-
face of the skin, but penetrates through its several
layers, exercising a beneficent and healing influ-
ence. It gives the skin a delicious velvety soft-
ness, and allays all irritation.
To these preparations should be added Valaze
Skin Tonic, which tones and braces up the skin
—astringent, antiseptic, stimulating and nourish-
ing—a tonic in the truest sense of the word.
This need only be used about twice or three times a
week.
Powder, of course, very few women can do without. Mme. Rubinstein is
one of the rare people who have devoted thought to this important point, and as a
result she has produced two distinct varieties, one for greasy skins, and one for
dry. Both of these are made in four tints, so that every shade of complexion may
be suited.
In conjunction with Valaze Complexion Soap should be used that unique
speciality, Yoskpasta, and the two invariably produce that smooth, supple, satiny
skin that is so noticeable in all Mme Rubinstein’s clients.
The prices of the foregoing preparations are surprisingly moderate; thus,
Valaze is 3/6 and 6/6 a jar, and Novena Cerate 2/- and 3/6, whilst the powders
maybe bought from 2/-and 3/-a box, Skin Tonic from 3/6 a bottle, the Voskpasta
is 3/-, and the Valaze Complexion Soap 2/-. How economical they are in use may
be gauged by the fact that a 6/6 jar of Valaze, which holds more than three times
as much as the smaller size, will, with ordinary usage, last for about five months.
THE QUESTION of the DAY:
The Cost of
Face
Treatments.
Novena Cerate is even more economical in use, and a bottle of the Valaze Skin
Tonic should be sufficient for several months; while Valaze Complexion Soap and
Voskpasta last for about the same time, if used for the face alone.
From this it will be seen that the woman who is prepared to spend the com-
paratively small amount mentioned a year may not only improve her skin enor-
mously, but also ensure its remaining clear and smooth until long past middle
age. If girls begin, when quite young, to use these wonderful preparations, they
will find themselves well repaid in after life by the possession of a rosy, healthy
complexion, free from spots and wrinkles.
All these delightful and wonderful preparations are the specialities of Mme.
Helena Rubinstein, and may be obtained from her Valaze Institute, 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney, and at Wellington, N.Z., and Mayfair,
London. Of course, she has other preparations, remedies for every ill of the
complexion.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure
banishes these disfigurements. It closes enlarged
pores, cures a greasy, coarse skin, and assists in
preserving a healthy complexion. By its use the
skin is perfectly cleansed, effectually braced, and
stimulated to healthy action. Price 2s. iod. posted
a box. No. 2 of the same, for more obstinate
cases, ss. 3d. posted.
Valaze Powder and Novena Poudre. Mme.
Rubinstein is the first Complexion specialist to
differentiate between the dry, moist, oily, normal
and “ shiny ” skin when advising the use of
powders. This accounts for her supplying several
varieties—the Novena Poudre, a “ fatty ” powder
for dry and normal skins, and the Valaze Com-
plexion Powder, for greasy or moist skins. To
dust a “ fatty ” powder over a greasy skin would
be adding fuel to the fire, while putting an
absorbent powder on a dry skin would not
only make it difficult to adhere, but ‘would
also aggravate the dryness. In boxes, 25., 3s.
and ss.
Valaze Freckle Pasta is a preparation of extra strength to obliterate obstinate
freckles, and to whiten the skin of the face and hands. Price ss. 3d. posted.
Valaze Liquidine overcomes many undesirable conditions, among which are
enlarged pores, black-heads, undue flushing of nose and face, and oiliness of the
skin, by stimulating and thoroughly cleansing the pores, and producing a finer and
more healthy condition. It may be applied twice daily, or more frequently, to
remove dust, travel stains, and oily secretions. Price 5/- and 8/6, 6d. post.
Novena Sunproof and Windproof Creme affords positive protection to the
skin against the sun as well as the wind, and prevents—as Valaze removes—freckles
sunburn, tan, sallowness, and chapping and cracking of the skin, due to heat, wind
or weather. It is quite innocuous, and may be used for children. Price 2/- and 3/6.
_At the Valaze Institute the world-renowned methods of Face Treatment are
carried out—methods that have spread her fame through every quarter of the
habitable globe.
Drink O.T. at the Club.
O.T. is the Club Man’s ideal drink. Its splendid
qualities, and its virtue of minimising the unpleasant
effects of alcoholic liquors or gassy drinks, enables one to
meet all demands of hospitality and good fellowship,
pleasantly, safely, and comfortably.
A Drink, a Tonic, a Digestive
COMBINED
WITHOUT ALCOHOL OR GAS.
vHTRO**
A*
GOLS
Specially approved
and recommended
as a pure product
by the British
Analytical Control
A body formed to protect the
food supplies of the public of
the United Kingdom.
The
Drinß
that will
Benefit
You
Most!
GOLD MEDAL and
DIPLOMA,
Paris Exhibition
Internationale,
1909 -
PURITY GUARANTEED BY THESE AWARDS.
No Other Drink in Australia has such Guarantees.
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT PASSING OFF.
. . Refuse inferior drinks put up by unscrupulous manufacturers in their endeavor to
imitate 0.T., as these imitations do not contain the same ingredients, and have not
the virtues and merits of O.T. Insist on Getting the Genuine.
Traders who pass off other drinks as O.T. will be proceeded against under the
Commonwealth Trade Marks Act.
If unable to get Genuine O. T. in your locality
please send us the name of your trader.
BOY A BOTTLE AND TRY IT
As with everything else, the practical test of O.T. is the one to
go by. You can obtain a bottle at a small cost at your grocer’s,
and if you put it to the test you will find O.T. will prove to be the
most delicious and most beneficial drink you have ever known.
Sole Makers of 0.T.: O.T. LIMITED, Sydney, Melbourne and London.
Branches and Depots throughout the World.


PLEASANT READING FOR THE FAT.
What a simple and inexpensive solving of
the fat woman’s problem the Marmola I'res-
cription Tablets provide! She takes one of
these harmless, pleasant little tablets after
each meal and at bedtime, and loses from
12 to 16 ounces of fat each day, and yet
suffers no harm, creates no disturbances in-
wardly, and produces no wrinkles. This ele-
gant preparation (made exactly in accord-
ance with the famous Marmola Prescription)
has rendered exercising and dieting for the
reduction of excess flesh as superfluous as a
fifth wheel. A large bottle contains a quan-
tity of tablets sufficient to give decided re-
sults in the majority of cases. Can be ob-
tained of all chemists, price 3s. 6d., or will
be sent post free on receipt of price by The
Marmola Company, 7 Barrack Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W.
NOTE.—For those who prefer the liquid
preparation, chemists are still dispensing
the famous prescription as follows: One
ounce of fluid Extract of Glycyrrhiza 8.P.,
one ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., one half-
ounce of Marmola, and mix with pepper-
mint water to make six ounces in all. The
dose is two tcaspoonfuls after each meal *
ĥ
FINE FIVE=COLORED
PICTURE, showing Cap-
tain Cook’s Statue and the Aus-
tralian Flag, with Calendar from
July to June, will be sent free
of cost on receipt of your name
and address.
Please Write to
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
“The 1.0. A.,”
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart, Rockhampton, Townsville.
CURED HIS
SCIATICA.
»
This Man got Relief After
Four Months' Suffering.
“I was ailing for about four months off
and on with sciatica,” said Mr. Arthur E.
White, 64 Rosehill Street, Redfern. “I got
a chill at my work, and it brought on a
severe pain in my back, just across the
loins. It would ease off during the day
after I had a little exercise, but it was bad
at night-time. I could hardly close my
eyes. I’d be twisting and turning all ways
to try and get some relief. It was like a
toothache, with the constant nagging, gnaw-
ing pain. The skin would be very red
and tender. I rubbed myself with lini-
ments, but found them no good. The pain
extended down the side of my left leg and
the back of my thigh. For about an hour
after I’d get out of bed I could only limp
about. It would start about five each night
and last for hours. I’d always be worse
when warm in bed. I cduldn’t bend my
back without the pain catching me like a
knife. The pain only seemed to settle
deeper as time went on. At last, on a
friend’s advice, I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. I felt a shade of ease with the first
box, and so I got another, and then I really
began to feel distinct benefit. My back
began to get supple again. I could bend
down with less difficulty. I was working
on the railway line at Belmore then. By
the time I had finished the third box I was
better still. The pains had lessened so
much that 1 could sleep quite easily. The
darting spasms of pain down my leg went
away, as did the stiffness on rising. I took
two more boxes, and they finally drove away
every sign of the sciatica, and now I’m as
supple as ever.”
Remember, only the genuine Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into
taking something said to be just as good. Of
all dealers at 2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes los.
3d., or from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
OCNYER
ensures
safety to
the rup-
tured, is
effective,
light and
cool in
wear.
Equally
comfort-
able in erect
or reclining
position.
No Springs to
irritate.
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double.
We are Truss Specialists, and will fit you exactly.
Enquiries carefully answered.
DENYER BROS ■» Abdominal Belts,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE SEE THAT DOESN'T SAW.
N. S. WALES: “It isn't much of a game at
the best; but if they can t get a move out
of the thing I’m going to get up."
Lord Rosebery (whom the late George
Dibbs, a shrewd observer, described as “the
biggest snob in England”) recently made the
terrible discovery that an Englishman's
’ouse is no longer his castle, because “under
the Finance Act a valuer may enter any
house and inspect it at his will for the pur-
pose of land valuation.” For years and years
the gas inspector, and the water inspector,
and the truancy man, and sanitary and medi-
cal officers, and plenty of otners have been
in the habit of looking iix at the poor man’s
home, and the poor man hasn’t had any
sympathy; but as soon as rich Rosebery’s
aristocratic privacy is at all threatened,
there’s a howl, and Freedom falls dead.
Newman, M.P., having introduced to the
Maoriland Elouse of Reps, an Hereditary
Titles Prevention Bill, Auckland Herald,
without knowing the contents, shrieked that
it “reflected discredit upon its promoter and
all those who encouraged it,” and was “un-
worthy of self-respecting men.” Whereupon
the polite Newman wrote to the enraged
editor; —
I venture to suggest that this somewhat intemper-
ate language is not justified by the circumstances,
and I desire, with all courtesy, to point out to you
that, as a matter of fact, you have not yet had an
opportunity of even perusing the Bill in question.. .
I would be very sorry to put any restraint upon
your enthusiasm upon this subject, but at the same
time I must in self-defence suggest that it would be
a safe rule, even for the editor of a newspaper, to
defer criticism of any Bill until after perusal of the
same.
And such is the ingratitude of mankind and
editors that the hasty critic did not rise
and apologise, let alone invite the author to
the place where the man sells the bottled
dog.
Thougli the poor employer is being ruined
by high wages, there is apparently a trifle
of money still left in his pockets. South
Aus. has now made a move to provide a
fighting fund of £lOO,OOO, euphoniously desig-
nated an Employers’ Mutual Assurance Co.,
and employers are expected to take up
“shares” according to the amount of wages
they pay. Melbourne’s Employers’ Federa-
tion started a similar fund a while back,
when the Harvester strike was on, and cer-
tain adipose persons subscribed £lOOO and
£5OO each ; but it seems to have stopped to
renew its carburetter or something.
A hole has been found in the N.S.W.
Workmen’s Compensation Act large enough
for a lawyer to crawl through. Recently a
mill employee had his hand hurt. After he
had been away a fortnight the employers asked
him to come in and do what he could to help
them through a rush. He was one of the
willing sort, and did it; but in a few days he
found that even this light work was impos-
sible, and he had to knock off. Yet, accord-
ing to the Act, he was debarred from claim-
ing the compensation to which he was other-
wise entitled, simply because he had returned
to work to oblige his employer. When the
talked-of Amending Bill is being drafted, it
is to be hoped the Labor Government won’t
forget to put a patch over this unpleasant
orifice.
“A Worried Grandma” rose the other
morning and hurled her ball of cotton wool
at Australia’s poor little compulsory-service
scheme. The parade grounds are already
littered with the mud and stones of the
junior pushes, and the inferior English of
unpati’iotic aldermen; so “Grandma’s” pro-
jectile came as an agreeable novelty. The
distracted old lady asked tremblingly, in the
manner of one who is sending a loved one to
almost certain destruction, if the boys were
to be compelled to go to drill in all weathers!
Unreasonable “Grandma” quite possibly
the mother of one of the aldermen who have
been refusing area officers the use of their
halls because the young army might want
the floor some night when a “social” desired
to revolve to incredibly bad music. If she
isn’t, she probably knows two other worried
grandmas who have mothered a mayor or
two. In either case, instead of hurling wool
about, and breathing a useless “Deary me!”
in the old folks’ corner of the family news-
paper, she might use her vote and the influ-
ence of her grey hairs on the men who ax*e
really responsible for keeping the kids out in
the wet.
A satis factory
clause in the Pat-
ents Act Amend-
ment Bill, which has
passed through the
committee stage in
the M a o r i 1 a n d
House of Reps., pro-
vides that any time
after four years of
the granting of a
patent it may be re-
voked if the patented
article is manufac-
tured principally or
exclusively outside
the Dominion. This
will touch up the
foreigner who will
neither make hi s
patent clothes-
peg in the country, nor allow anybody else
to make a peg of the same general character.
Municipal election day in and around Mel-
bourne was a great day for the rnotah. “Run
you to the booth, ma’am,” said a tout with a
cab to one duly-qualified female in the street.
“No, thanks,” she replied coldly ; “I shall vote
for one with a motor.” In a good many
instances the contest was really Motors
versus Motives —with the odds on the Motors.
SAILING MATES.
At the P.L.L. conference,. Mr. Holman, with great
emphasis, drove home his contention that he was in
no way bound to follow the Federal lead.... The
cheers which greeted him as he concluded showed
that he had the other side beaten.... As a matter
of fact the conference soon showed itself on the side
of the defendants. —Sydney D.T.
EACH (to the other) : “ Just wot I see, love!
Why should we quarrel over Australian
industries , wages, strikes a n’ sick trifles ,
when we both ’as a equal share in this
beautiful place? ”
Before considering the question of higher
Protection, Customs Minister Tudor asked
manufacturers for certain information, and
he regrets that he hasn’t had many replies.
Those, however, who have replied complain
of shortage of labor rather than of orders.
It may be granted that many—perhaps most
—manufacturers are busy; but the import
statistics show that there are not half as
many manufacturers as there ought to be ; and
if Tudor hasn’t got replies, it is in many cases
because there is nobody to do the replying.
The Department can’t expect demands' for
more Protection from manufacturers of (say)
calico, flannelette, or cotton piece goods,
when the Protection hasn’t been sufficient
to encourage anybody to start up in those
industries. Hence the most eloquent reply
that Tudor will get from anywhere will be
from the unborn manufacturers who clamor
through the Department’s own statistics.
Miss Eleanor Cameron, recently mentioned
as having separated herself from the Vic.
Wimmen’s National League, is still attached
to that organisation. This paper is assured
that the lady has had no difference with the
league, but has merely resigned her secre-
tary's job to play the more limelit part of
“speaker and organiser.”
PRO VIDENCE AND THE HOG.
“ Thank Heaven it wasn’t a cow!"
“White Ants” from the West; —
They say W.A. has no droughts. Ugh! From
Geralrtton in the north, to Beverley in the south, at
the moment of writing, the drought has its grip.
Half the new-ehum cockies are in despair—no water,
no feed, no anything. Even some of the Government
surveyors are carting water from 10 to 30 miles.
And all the time, in order to save the big landlords
who hold the coastal country where the rainfall is
pretty' sure, the Government pushes settlers out, out,
out. There’s going to be a smash before long.
If these strenuous
anti-Socialists are not
careful they will hurt
themselves in their
wild rush to embrace
the “tiger,” and call
it their long-lost bro-
ther. At latest, the
Vic. Government had
yielded to entreaties
and undertaken to put
up a canning factory,
for fruit and vege-
tables, at Shepparton.
Rochester has also got
a half-promise of a
cannery, and Kya-
bram is i - aising Cain
because it has been
overlooked. Kyabram,
where the ’l’ootra
first mounted his
dunghill and began
to crow, was sup-
posed to be dead, but
apparently it isn’t too
deceased to want to
get up and shake hands with the other part
of the Zoo.
From an old hand
The N.S.W. State Parliament still keeps the belt
as a “Wild West” show. The election of Speaker
Willis, with its Cromwellian culmination, was the
end of a series of scenes of buffoonery and disorder
which have not been paralleled since the time when
a certain insignificant member sat in the Speaker’s
chair with a waste-paper basket on his head, and
robes of floor carpet; or since that other time when
“Tom was doin’ splendid!” The late scenes are
also remindful of the time when Bill Lyne, big
Ginger Clarke, John Perry and others fought, not
singly or in pairs, but like boarding rushes in bucca-
neering times ; and other dates when Jimmy Fletcher
tried to choke John Haynes, and nearly succeeded;
or when John and the late Crick were enfolded in a
deadly embrace on the floor of the vestibule, and
were feeling for their poniards.
No matter how hopeless the fight may be,
the Labor party can always find an enthusi-
ast to contest a “Liberal” seat, and scatter
a few grains of truth while keeping the
enemy moving. The Weary-Willie Govern-
ment in Victoria wishes its crowd was built
like that. Lately a candidate was wanted to
run against Tunnecliffe at Eaglehawk; but,
when the applications for the job closed, the
only one lodged was on behalf of H. R. Wil-
liams, a poor, derelict, political has-been. The
local bosses looked at Williams, and then at
his chances, and decided to try again. They
had an idea that Hicks, a member of the
House of Fat Landlords, might get some-
where near the top ; but, after sampling the
reef, Hicks said it was a duffer, and sat
tight where he was. When the fishers
pulled in their net the second time, the old
derelict was therefore still the only thing
inside it ; and Eaglehawk “Liberals” have
sadly settled down to the conviction that it
will have to be Williams or nothing.
THE DECLINE AND FALL OF US.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In an examination of the causes that led to the
downfall of Rome, the Spectator observes in them
a striking resemblance to some of the most charac-
teristic features of social and political life at the
present day.—Melb. Argus.
The pampered proletariat is doing far too well,
And thus, of course, we’re leaping down a short,
steep place to Hell;
Australia slides perditionwards with fizz-corks in
her liair,
Because Billjim Australia wants his beastly, proper
share.
Just think of it. Observe how near to ltome-like
smash and blazes
Australia drifts! In dreadful fear
The patriot forward gazes!
In ancient Rome the common, plain, hard-working
Masses fed
On turkey, wine, and peacocks’ tongues whilst lying
on a bed;
Large piles of luscious grapes they had, and bowls of
Romish beer,
With fried lark-livers, sturgeon soup, and similar
good cheer.
Corned beef and turnips, day by day, the Classes
had for dinner.
The Masses beat ’em every way,
A simple, easy skinner!
Now, too, among our Masses do we see the same
decay,
And all the old debaucheries on seven-and-six a day ;
The same old, fatted, daily fowl, the same expensive
swill,
The same old Classes sweating for the good of Jim
and Bill!
Is it not so? .. . Yet, every day, despite the
Classes’ preaching,
Doomed Bill goes on his lively way
For Food and Ruin reaching!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
SNARLIAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Honorable Member for Dry Gully had the floor ;
The talking Chamber echoed and re-echoed to his
roar;
His waistcoat swelled, his bald head swat, his fists
clawed towards “the Chair,”
And ev’ry time he paused for breath, his friends re-
marked “Hair, hair!”
He called men “Traitors!” shook with rage, and
thumped with frightful force;
Then gulped a little water down when he was get-
ting hoarse;
He. bellowed, advertised and bragged. The placid
Hansard men
Recorded ev’ry worthless yelp with swift and skilful
pen.
His own side yawned behind his back; his foemen
long had fled,
Save one who by the table sat, and held his aching
head ;
Dry Gully sizzled in his ear—Dry Gully blazed and
spat,
And in a fat, heroic way kept talking through his
hat;
The pencils of the Hansard men slipped onward,
page by page,
Preserving for posterity that fat man in a rage.
(It was their duty so to do. Some men have jobs
absurd !
What will To-morrow care about Dry Gully’s
brightest word?)
The silent voters, packed and jammed in plain, hard
galleries,
looked down respectfully upon the men who sprawled
at ease ;
And here and there one closely watched the “Han-
sards” as they wrote,
Taking with wondrous skill a true Recording Angel
note;
With Pitman’s magic did those scribes, unruffled and
immense,
Catch up and bottle, cork and store that mud-sprung
eloquence;,
No yelp or bellow ran to waste—they were too keen
for that;
He might have been Demosthenes, That talker through
a hat.
But in the long press gallery unmoved reporters
read
Their first editions languidly, or watched Dry Gully’s
head ;
Not theirs to chase him with a pen, harpooning ev’ry
yell;
They’d mentioned he was wild, artd there was nothing
more to tell;
For space is scarce, and life is short, and men, what-
e’er their views,
Have very little time to spare for Snarliamentarv
News ;
Though bald Dry' Gully' boiled for hours his patriotic
blood,
The State without was merely told: “Dry Gully’s
been in flood.”
When Voter Jones has done with games the State
may get a thought,
And so it happens with his X he scores a frequent 0 :
He never has the time to watch Dry Gully and his
friends;
He merely marks his ballot-slip, and there the matter
ends;
He reads Dry Gully (as boiled down by those who
watch on top),
But never goes in person to that stuffy talking-shop.
As one who hustles for his crust, ’twould give him
quite a shock
To see how Gully strangles Time, and burns his
ticking clock.
They sit on long, upholstered seats, in lounging, yap-
ping rows ;
And in the little balcony the Hansard pencil goes ;
J lie visitors like waxworks sit, the weary pressmen
yawn,
And through the windows nervously peeps in To-
morrow’s dawn ;
The toil-worn country after work is resting un-
ashamed ;
’Twill never see Dry Gully rise, inflated and in-
flamed ;
’Twill never hear his strident yell—and God be
praised for that!
He’s just a paper shadow hooting through a paper
hat!
n-s.w.
KODAK.


Ghe CLAVIOLA-PIANO.
!
/
k \
rv\\'. //
■iC
vs
am
OT®s®i
7f
H
e*4?iy
G
- /v )
\'i
I 1
/ u iir^-
S "T>
This glorious instrument is playable by band, or
by means of tbe Claviola Music Rolls, thus
maKing piano-playing a delight for all.
By reason of its surpassing excellence of design,
construction and finish, the CLAVIOLA
PIANO appeals to all who desire to possess
A Superb
Combination of a
Roniscb or
Lipp Piano
and 1
the V^01.0“
Claviola.
THE WORLD’S FINEST PLAYER-PIANO.
Call and Hear It, or Write for Catalogue.
_ _ _ 338 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. PALING Co.. Ltd.. Sydney
and at Brisbane, Newcastle and Toowoomba.
i
m
" 4 :
m
■.
H m
* •
Bfc*.
New
Portrait
Song
Albums.
By the Most
Popular Composers.
Price 3/- each.
BY POST, 3/3.
Each Album uniformly bound
in tasteful grey, with the
Photograph of the Composer
on the cover.
ALBUMS BY
F. PAOLO TOSTI—
Containing: “On Lido Waters,” “Hid me Good-bye,” and five other Songs.
HERMANN LOHR—
Containing: “A Chain of Roses.” “So Pair a Flower,” and six other Songs.
CONINGSBY CLARKE—
Containing: “Take your Lute and Sing,” “Betty’s Way,” and six other Songs.
GUV D’HARDELOT—
Containing: “The Perfect Flower,” “An Old Romance,” and six other Songs.
FRANCO LEONI—
Containing: “A Song of the Cruise.” “Golden Lilies,” and five other Songs.
LIZA LEHMANN—
Containing: “If Thou wilt be the Falling Dew,” “Soul’s Blossom,” and five
other Songs.
NOEL JOHNSON—
Containing: “Purple Pansies.” “Good-night, pretty Stars,” and six other Songs.
TERESA DEL RIEGO—
Containing: “Life's Recompense.” “A Song of Life,” and seven other Songs.
FLORENCE AYLWARI)—
Containing: “Love’s Benediction,” “Sunrise,” and six other Songs.
EDWARD GERMAN—
Containing: “Birds on Wing,” “Fair Flowers,” and five other Songs.
FRANK LAMBERT—
Containing: “Look down, dear Eyes,” “Deep in my Heart.” and six other
Songs.
CHAPPELL 8 CO. LTD 235 FLINDERS LANE. MELBOURNE.
May be had of ALL Music Sellers. London and New York.
ħ
FASHION TAILORING
The
Spring Suitings
at
F armer’s
WE produce the highest-class
Tailoring because our Expert
Cutters are men of experience,
taste and skill; our workers are the
most competent in Australia, and all
work is carried out in our Pitt Street
workrooms under careful supervision.
With all these advantages, together with Farmer’s reputation
as the Foremost Fashion House, every patron is assured a suit
correct in every detail.
The special suitings for Spring include : Saxony and worsted
materials; West of England and Scotch Tweeds; some exclusive
suit lengths (one only of each design) ; and the new Aero cloth
a light and hygienic fabric specially suitable for Australian
summer wear.
HAND-MADE SUITS
from £4141- “> £6/6|-
Patterns sent post free on request*
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
rat - SKID
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
Speechless with Wonder
Are the friends of those relieved of Indigestion and
all Stomach Troubles by Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules. Price, 2s. 6d. per tin.*
WOMAN’S PRAISE.
A LADY FROM BALMAIN HIGHLY
PRAISES DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
“I have been troubled with Indigestion
and Severe Headaches,” writes Mrs. Louisa
Cunningham, of 6 Grove Street, Balmain,
“and a difficultv in breathing, with a fulness
after eating, and I find that Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills give me the most relief.
For women I think they are specially suit-
able, particularly for tne ailments which
they are subject to. We always keep them
in the house; my husband and the family
use them also when they are indisposed; and
if this small testimony is of any use you
may use it for advertising purposes.”
First Quality Aerated Waters Made at 3d. perdoz.
EASILY, QUICKLY, ECONOMICALLY.
THE “BANKER,”
A Money Maker for Hotelkeepers. Easy to Bay-
£lo Deposit secures delivery with an expert to
erect same. A few pounds a month pays the balance
PRICE FROM £.25.
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO., LTD.,
167 George Street (North), SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATiVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES * CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLOARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Adelaide Racing Club pulled down the
curtain on its most successful meeting on Saturday,
anu the totalisator supplied a golden fringe to it.
Investments in the machine during the afternoon
climbed to ±,22,536, or over £7OOO more than last
year. In the two days, £44,065 was pushed through
the machine —an increase of nearly £14,000. The first
race on the menu provided an appetiser, when out-
jl. . j Lady Frederick; downed the field, and paid a
dividend of £79 10s. per £1 invested. Other
reasonable divs. were Tadanga’s £ll 175., and
bweet Aroon’s £lO Bs.; while San Toy’s gathering
of the Grand National Steeple yielded £7 15s. The
second” diys. were not very glittering, but the
return of even the invested boodle, and a trifle
over, would cause Ikey Noses to take a fit. Alto-
gether it was a meeting to arouse jealousy in the
bosom of N.S.W. and Victorian punters, who have
to take what Noses offers —and be thankful. The
fleetness of the gee-gees was also responsible for the
murder of two S. Aus. records: Waipuna’s two
miles in 3min. 54 3-ssec. was a second ahead of the
previous best, while San Toy’s Steeple time (6min.
lOsec) is 4sec. better.
The most consistent backer of horses in
Australasia, or probably anywhere else, is the Maori.
Also he is a skilful, plucky and lucKy backer. At
recent Grand National meeting at Christchurch
(“5. , on , e Tekani Pere bet Ikey Noses that he
could pick the winners of the three big races, in ad-
e , 10 JV to , tlle double. Noses laid him £BOO to
£1 that he couldn’t nominate the treble, and £2OO
to £1 that he couldn’t sort out the double. Israel
is exactly £lOOO out on the argument.
* * * *
The ink wasn’t dry on The Bulletin’s
prediction, last week, when Eyeglass was scratched
for the Metrop., owing to “flats” (who thought they
were ‘sharps”) having bulged Ikey Noses’s bag with
coin, and thereby offended the owner of the brute.
And over the whole thing the fiendish smile of Ikev
spreads horribly. The Eyeglass trouble is only one
of thousands which annually sap the public’s coin,
and it shrieks to the N.S.W. and Victorian Govern-
ments to come along witli a Totalisator Bill, and
thereby notify Noses to get work.
The balance-sheet of the A.J.C. (Sydney)
shows the fruit of the boom. The revenue from
admission-money exceeded the previous year’s total
by £11,000; and, as it was the club’s first effort to
collect the gate-money (up to this it had sold
the rights to Private Enterprise), the departure
panned out very well. The A.J.C. is piling £5550
on to the prize-money for the coming season, and is
offering some more accommodation to the public.
This is the English team which leaves for
Australia on September 29: P. F. Warner, F. R.
Foster, J. B. Hobbs, H. Strudwick, Douglas (Essex),
S. P. Einneir, E. J. Smith, J. W. Hearne, J. Ire-
monger, G. Gunn, W. R. Rhodes, F. E. Woolley,
C. P. Mead, J. Vine and S. F. Barnes. Of this lot
Mead tops the batting averages with 51.38; Kin-
neir follows (49.06); and then comes Foster with
43.63. Foster’s bowling average (19.67) is the
second best in England to-day, and Wilfrid Rhodes
(23.43) follows him. ®
The team comes without the star amateurs, but it
has a solid body of professionals, and on paper has
the makings of a better side than the one which,
under the same captain (Plum Warner), annexed
the ashes in 1903-4. Further, Australian cricket
is (on paper) not so strong as it was eight years
ago. Without Noble, with Hill doubtful, and with
Cotter making flesh, Australia hasn’t won the
rubber before the games start.
Warner has already been to Australia twice as
skipper of an English XI. In 1902 he was captain
of Lord Hawke’s “picnic” team, which toured
Maoriland and played a few matches in Australia.
The following year he brought out a team good
enough to bag the ashes. Of that combination only
Rhodes and Strudwick are again included. Hobbs,
of Surrey, is the only other member that has visited
Australia before.
* * * *
C. Yon del- Luft (Vic.) and H. Rumball
(N.S.W.) treated the crowds who patronised the
sixth Australasian amateur billiard championship
match to a ding-dong battle. The rep. from the
land; of the Weary Government played more con-
sistently than his opponent, and finally won by 135
points. In the game of 3000, Von der Luft’s average
worked out at 13.10 per cue, while Rumball’s efforts
panned out at The tallest break (131) was
credited to Rumball; but it was the young un’s con-
sistency that did the trick. On behalf of N.S.W.
Rumball won the title in 1906 and 1909, and Bel-
field in 1907 and 1908 ; but Victoria is getting a
rush on, owing to A. Tricks’s success last year and
Von der Luft taking the bauble at his first try.
That enthusiastic Australian, Mark Foy,
writing from London, winds up a list of “champion-
ships we now hold,” with this: “And now, in yacht-
ing, we hold the Anglo-Australian Shield.” The
armor is in Mark Foy’s own keeping. Unfortunately,
he didn’t have a race for it —he got it by default.
Foy ;had had the Southerly Buster built on Sydney
Harbor models for the express purpose of racing
for the shield ; and, to show what Australia could do,
he had the boat built from keel to truck in the
Commonwealth. The Medway Club, however, said
that the Shield was to be raced for by seven-metre
boats, and wanted him to build another craft to
suit English ideas. Foy protested that the club had
previously built the Maid of Kent specially to down
his Trex, and the Maid had done it; now, when he
bad put his experience into the job of winning the
Shield back, they wanted to tie him up and race
with what suited them. The rules were finally pro-
duced, measurements of the Southerly Buster made
—and then the Shield was handed over, and, says
Mr. Foy, “I received it on behalf of the Sydney
Flying Squadron and Australia.” He concludes:
“Now, they say there is no agreement to the effect
that they must go to Australia to race; but surely
that is understood. And, anyhow, my club will
never agree to anything else, I am sure. I am ex-
tremely sorry to have to take the Shield without a
contest for it, but I tried everything in my power to
get a race, and I think would have won anyhow. I
also think they thought so too, and, therefore, would
not go to the expense and then lose the Shield as
well. ... It would have cost me a considerable
amount of money to bring the boys to England to
sail the Buster, and I think I will form that into a
fund for the future defence of the Shield.” Good
sport!
The second Rugby Union tussle between
N.S.W. and Queensland, at Sydney, was a repetition
of the initial kick-up. The early half was well
contested, with the scores at 16 to 10 in favor of
N.S.W. ; but, after the interval, the Ma players piled
up goals and tries till the tally reached 34 to 15.
In the first match N.S.W. won by 34 points to 14 ;
and the aggregate of 68 points to 29 represents
pretty fairly the difference between the teams. It
was the 88th match between the States; N.S.W. has
won Queensland 22, and 4 have been drawn.
The Northern (N.S.W.) Rugby League
team (which recently trampled on Queensland)
rubbed a “Metropolitan XIII.” in the slush at Syd-
ney, last week, in a strikingly even game. The first
section ended 18 all, and, after a vigorous second
half, the game ended: Northern 31, Metropolitan 24.
The feature of the match was the exceptional kick-
ing; Messenger (Met.) booted six goals, and Miller
(Northern) had a record of five goals and two tries.
The mighty “Dally” had, therefore, the new experi-
ence of being threatened at his own pet branch of
football.
Balmain will be able to open a jeweller’s
shop after the Soccer season. The Association Cup
reposes in the coaly suburb, which is also almost
out of danger in the Rawson Cup contest, and it has
something to the good in the struggle for the Gar-
diner Can. Saturday’s matches provided some close
finishes. Powerful beat Glebe (1 goal to nil) for the
late Governor’s bowl, and Sydney drew with Balmain
(1 goal each) for the Gardiner Dipper. Newtown
forfeited to Granville.
* * * *
On grounds covered with slush, Sydney
Rugby League footballers pushed each other about
vigorously on Saturday. It was a day for forward
rushes, and the burly players bogged in and rubbed
each other exultantly in the soup. The splashing
pulled down the shutters on the second round, and
incidentally shifted the premiership figures. South
Sydney and Balmain supplied the upheaval of the
afternoon, when the watersiders—who had previously
won only two matches out of 13 —trampled Souths
in the mud by 9 points to 3. Of the other matches,
Glebe accounted for Western Suburbs by 24 to nil;
Eastern Suburbs squelched North Sydney by 3 to nil;
Newtown tore over Annandale by 17 to 5. The re-
sult of the mud-dumping is to push Glebe to the top
of the table with 22 points, South Sydney and
Eastern Suburbs being next with 20 each. Others
don’t matter. A play-off between Eastern Suburbs
and South Sydney will be necessary to determine
Glebe’s adversaries for the final.
# Mr #
N.S.W. Rugby League footballers have
struck a new “enjoyment,” which the officials will
have to meet with an axe before trouble gets on the
doorstep. On Saturday players dipped one referee
in the mud at whistle-time, and the other only es-
caped through being smart enough to dodge into
the dressing enclosure. On the holiday, last week,
similar happenings were on the menu. From any
viewpoint the “fun” is the small end of trouble.
* * * *
The first semi-final supplied the fun
among the Australian Rulers in Sydney on Saturday,
when Y.M.C.A. and Newtown clashed at Erskineville
quagmire. It was a rood game for three quarters,
but in the final quarter the accumulation of the
earth on the ball was too much for Newtown, and
the Young Men prevailed by 50 points to 20, and
thereby secured their place in the final. The other
semi-final is down for argument between Sydney and
East Sydney next Saturday.
* * * *
Queensland Rugby Union XV. swam
better than Sydney Metropolitan XV. at the Univer-
sity bath on Saturday, and Ma’s boys went under by
12 points to 11. Bananaland, which led 8 to 3 at
half-time, struggled out with a one-point victory;
and when referee Swannell blew a long whistle at
the end, the bespattered players crawled off the
ground with half the oval attached to them.
* * * *
Saturday’s Melbourne ’oofball games
settled the hopes of various teams to be of the select
four in the finals. Could ’Ro.v beat Essendon, it still
had an outside chance of ousting ’Wood, so it bogged
in regardless. But all in vain. ’Don’s swiftness,
precision and method gave ’Roy no hope, and the
trouble ended with the “same old” securing 46
points to ’Roy’s 25. Even while the maroons were
doing their last dash, ’Wood was nullifying their
efforts by walloping Carlton decisively. The latter’s
splendid marking was discounted by its awful kick-
ing. Towards the end ’Wood lost its captain through
a sprained ankle, but that made no difference, for it
already had the Carlton 15- and 17-stoners beaten—-
’Wood 56 points, Carlton 41. The Students, who
had drawn so heavily on their Metropolitan Associa-
tion team that the latter let its match with Caul-
field go by default, kept their end up against Mel-
bourne till three-quarter time; then it went to
pieces, and Melb. won by 91 points to 29. Rich-
mond polished off Saints by 123 to 36, and South got
the surprise of its life at Geelong. It led at halh
time by 43 points to 18, but after that the sea-air,
or over-anxiety, or something, got on its nerves, and
Geelong came at the finish and upended its sprouting
ambitions by notching 72 points to South’s 63.
* * * *
Saturday’s games finished the first round
in the Ass., and left Essendon, North, P’ran and
Brunswick to fight out the finals. Port was level
with the Brickies on games, but ’Wick, which met
Preston that day, contemptuously piled Up 178
points to Preston’s 18, and thereby passed Port into
outer darkness. As to Preston, which lias won four
games in three years, the Ass. warned it last year,
and the boot should be applied now. The other dis-
turbances resulted in the defeat of P’ran bjr Essen-
don, of ’Town by North, of ’Cote by ’Scray, and of
Brighton by Port; but none of them had any rele-
vance.
* * * *
Though the Victorian League’s first round
doesn’t end till Saturday of this week, the positions
of the leaders cannot be altered, and for the third
year running Collingwood, Carlton, South and Essen-
don will argue the point in the finals. In the Ass.,
likewise, the same four as last year will discuss the
question. ’Roy, in the League, and Port in the Ass.,
made a great effort to gain places in the charmed
quartette, but it takes two and sometimes three
seasons to do that. Football is a game, but it is
also a matter of endurance, skill, brains and, above
all, training. It takes two or three seasons’ strenu-
ous endeavor to lick a mere score of young men into
anything approaching effective form. ' Yet there are
fools who think an effective defence force can be
taught to bivouac, march, manoeuvre and shoot in a
day.
* * * *
Five or six thousand people were present
at the Mehegan benefit—for that is all the fight
between him and Maorilander Charlie Griffin, on
Monday night, at the Stadium (Svdney) amounted to
—and came away satisfied that the Australian light-
weight will punch his w. ' into a pavable future.
Griffin is not the fighting Charlie of old—no fire, no
thump, no defence, nothing but good intentions and
game resolve. The entertainment lasted five rounds,
when Griffin, already in a dazed condition, was
floored. Mehegan fought for the body practically all
the time, striking once or twice dangerously low. It
was body punishment that Griffin never had a hope
of standing for long, and, as a matter of fact, he
should have been saved some of it by the towel being
sent in before the fifth round. There isn’t much
bright and lofty intelligence in pinning faith to
the obviously hopeless; in fact, there isn’t so much
as plain donkey intelligence in it.
The heavyweight disturbance between Bil-
lang and Tommy Burns’s protege, Jack Lester, will,
if Providence sees fit and proper, take place at the
Stadium next Saturday night; and, as a good deal
hangs to the issue in the immediate future, both
men may be expected to be as excessively disagree-
able as the Marquis of Queensberry’s rules of debate
will permit.
* * * *
Bob McCarthy (Bst. fought “Spider”
Elliott (7st. 91b.) at Melbourne Athletic Club’s hall
the other evening for the State bantam champion-
ship and certain emoluments. Elliott was much the
brighter boy, and showed McCarthy just how it
should be done, through about 16 rounds of willing
milling. In the course of the 48 minutes McCarthy
was the thankless recipient of many fancy knocks
and artful punches; but Bob is the sort that stub-
bornly declines to recognise his inferiority as a
fighter. He continued wading in as if nothing
were happening to him, and was rewarded for his
pertinacity. In the 18th Elliott collapsed to wear
and tear, and in the 19th was all out, and the
white-work floated over his recumbent form.
McCarthy is now champion small bird of the Weary
province.
Last week 63 N.S.W. teams plugged
away on the Randwick rifle range for the right to
fondle the A.N.A. Cup. The country shooters rolled
up forcibly, and teams from Junee, Young, Peak
Hill, Manilla, and other far-away places made the
trip. The competition was very keen, and ended in
a win for Parramatta No. 3, with 473 points out of
a possible 500; Parramatta No. 1 (470), Randwick
No. 1 (467), and Gunning (462) were not far be-
hind. The fact that so many riflemen faced the
damp conditions (so bad at times that the target
wasn’t visible), is an indication that there are some
Australians who consider that football barracking
is not the apex of citizenship. And here’s to ’em!
* * * *
N.S.W. amateur cross-country champion-
ship at Randwick racecourse, on Saturday, was
worth a long journey to see. Six “A” grade teams,
of nine members each, were despatched by Lands
Minister Flowers on a five-mile journey over 40 ob-
stacles of various kinds; and Newtown was the only
band which didn’t finish with sufficient numbers to
be recognised. The battle for the individual cham-
pionship provided the best finish in these contests
for many years, and it was only in the last sprint
that T. J. Wood (E. Sydney) shook off 0. Weyman
(Botany), and won by 4yds., with F. Flowers (Red-
fern) 7yds. away, and Hamilton (Toowong, Q.)
close at hand. The journey was traversed in 29min.
41Asec.—the fastest time since 1902. The adjust-
ment of placings gave the championship to Botany
with 48 points, Redfern (101), East Sydney (109),
South Sydney (118), and Toowong, Q. (165), being
next in order. The success of Botany keeps the title
in the club’s pantry for the fourth successive year;
and as T. J. Wood also gathered in the individual
honors last year, a porter won’t be needed to shift
the baubles.
The “B” grade spin followed, and Botany scored a
second easy victory with 62 points, while South
Sydney (123), Cumberland (138), Redfern (154),
and E. Sydney (207) supplied the joints of a drawn-
out _ tail. The bright spot was the fine run by J.
McKenzie (Y.M.C.A.), who won individual honors
easily in 31min. 22 4-ssec. ; and on the performance
“little Mac” must be treated with respect in future
championships.
* * * *
Victorian 10-mile cross-country champion-
ship, at Caulfield, on September 16, will have a
strong inter-State flavor. T. J. Wood and the Botany
Harriers (with the N.S.W. honors hanging to their
singlets) will join in the trouble on behalf of Ma ;
while Bananalander A. J. Luton will make the trip
to defend the title which he gathered in last year.
Tassy promises to forward two teams; and as Vic-
toria’s champions will also be on deck, the event
promises to be interesting.
* * * *
Holway, the Yankee runner, has collared
another championship. At the Sydney Agricultural
Ground, on Prince of Wales Birthday, he streaked
away from Maorilander Trembath in a run for the
440yds. world’s championship. Although the M.L.
goer led for the first half of the race, the Yank flew
past him, and won by syds., in 50 4-ssec. —good
going for heavy ground. On the same day Mrs.
Dpennan (holder) and Miss Moore (challenger) met
for the 100yds. ladies’ championship of Australia.
The spinster’s velocity was not equal to the maid’s,
and the maid won by 24yds. in 13 3-ssee.
* * * *
The Victorian lacrosse players didn’t bar-
gain for aquatic sport when they came to play
N.S.W., but they got it at Manly Oval on the day
Sydney observes as Prince of Wales’ Birthday. When
the two teams emerged from the slush, Vic. had
scored Bto Ma’s 5. Play throughout was second-
rate on account of the wet, but N.S.W., according
to the southern manager, shows a great improvement
in theory since its game with S. Aus. ; and on Satur-
day it defeated the visiting Bananalanders for the
first time in six years.
* * * *
Only one baseball match was played in
Sydney on Saturday, the other clubs keeping them-
selves dry in the pavilions. Lane Cove and Burwood
were not of the melting brand, and in a match
which was full of mud and fun, Lane Cove won by
14 runs to 4. The competition is now extremely
tangled, and the playing of a host of postponed
matches will be necessary to sort out those with
a “possible” in the final.
* * * *
The Taranaki (M.L.) circular cycling
road race was spun through in rotten weather.
Drizzling rain confronted the 65 plucky athletes
who faced the 104-miles run; and, after the
cyclists had been scraped, Jas. Clark (32min.) was
recognised as first man home and fastest time-
winner, followed by Greenless (37min.) and Stoddart
(50min.). Clark’s time was 6hr. 17min. 59 2-ssec.
The glory is supolemented by £5O and the right to
keep a £5O challenge mug in his cupboard.
C. J. Senior put up a good bike ride re-
cently, when he lowered the Westralian 25-mile record
to 63min. 3sec., thereby knocking lmin. 47sec. off
G;. Beardon’s effort of two years ago. During the
past three years Senior has won two 50-mile races,
besides first and fastest time prizes in the Beverley -
Perth 110-mile spin.
* * * *
N.S.W. amateur cyclist E. W. Schneider
ended his run of bad luck at Bath (Eng.) last week
by reducing the half-mile grass-track record to
64 l-ssec., and also gathering in the five-mile
scratch event in 13min. 44sec. The Australian has
probably recovered some of the dash which was
shown before he hurried from these parts; and it is
consoling to know that many English cycling snig-
gerers will have to gulp down the early silly criticism
with which they tantalised the Australian.
South Carolina (U.S.A.) Supreme Court
has just hit the motor “joy-rider” with a thunder-
bolt. Evidence showed that the owner of a car had
ordered it into the garage. Instead, the chauffeur
went for a midnight spin with some pals, and, inci-
dentally, bumped a horse and buggy. Nobody was
hbrt, but the whole festive bunch was arrested, tried
for “conspiracy,” and sentenced to five years’ gaol.
The ruling, which has caused a sensation in the
States, was that “conspiracy” consisted of several
persons doing an unlawful act which affected the
public or individual (the car-owner), or doing a
lawful act (motoring) by unlawful means (in a for-
bidden ear). After this, the Carolina chauffeur’s
pals will most likely drop midnight motoring with
great suddenness. 6
Still, the chauffeur who knows his way about
and most of them do—will generally find some com
in Lgypt if he stands well with a garage. The gar-
age s usual gag, especially for newehums at the
motoring game, is: “After we have fixed her up we
may have to give her a bit of a run to see that she
goes smoothly.” Nineteen times out of 20 the
owner says “Certainly! ” and then anything mav
happen. In fact, if the garage isn’t above that sort
of thing, the car may be hired out for a few odd
days.
* * * *
The last letter from Birtles, the over-
landing cyclist, who is making a trip round Aus-
tralia with a cinematograph outfit, comes from Nor-
manton (up where the Gulf of Carpentaria would
spill itself if it weren’t locked in). He seems to be
getting plenty of excitement. At Cloncurry he was
out with a shooting party, when a local shot’s rifle
went off, and the bullet grazed Birtles’s back, and
scratched his elbow ; then he trod on a catfish, and
had trouble with a wild boar and got mixed up in
a buggy smash. From Normanton he makes Wynd-
ham, in the north of Westralia; and in November
he will try to break the 30 days’ record from Perth
to Sydney.
* # * £
The Sydney Bike and Motor Cycle Club
has decided to send a rep. to England to compete in
next year’s Tourist Trophy motor-cycle race. Tests
will be held in N.S.W. to choose Mother’s boy, and
the lucky one will leave for England in March.
The motor-cycle race for the world’s cham-
pionship resulted in a win for De Rosier, of America.
The first event was a willing one. Collier, from
England, kept in front till 100yds. from the end.
when the Yank dashed past him, and won by three
lengths. His time for the five miles was 4min.
2 4-ssec. —an average of 80.59 miles per hour. In
the second go, while he was travelling at 80 miles
per hour, De Rosier’s front tyre came off, and Collier
won, the miles taking him lOmin. 12sec., an
average of 79.9 miles per hour. Collier’s machine
misfired in the third race; De Rosier’s time for the
27 miles was 20min. 44 2-ssec., an average of 78. G
miles per hour.
* * * #
In the Vie. Motor Cycle Club’s 25-mile
road race on Saturday—l2J miles out and home
along the north-eastern road from Craigieburn—H.
Russell lowered the State’s record for the distance from
30min. 30sec. to 27min. 58 2-ssec. This looks prom-
ising should Jake de Rosier come out td slither round
the F.S. Gardens new asphalt track.
* * * *
“Billy” Murdoch’s pioneer work for Aus-;
tralian cricket is to be recognised with a memorial
by the N.S.W. Cricket Association ; ■ and the small
outlay will keep green the memory of a sound
cricketer and a good sport.
Maoriland five-mile cross-country cham-
pionship was struggled through at Auckland, when
a bunch of athletes careered from Ellerslie race-
course to Alexandra Park. Throughout the journey,
Hill(Auckland) led an elastic band of athletes, which
stretched more as the distance was traversed, and at
the tape there were 75yds. between Beatson and Not-
man (Otago). Time, 32min. 15sec. The teams
championship fell to Otago, with Auckland and Well-
ington next.
* * * *
Ooraki (N.S.W.) begins to put a bit on
itself as an aquatic centre. As an inducement to the
top-notch ers to float themselves at the local regatta
on November 1, £lOO is offered for an all-comers’
best-and-best event. The village claims this to be
the record regatta prize of the State, Sydney not
barred. Seeing that it contains under 1500 souls,
Coraki is an enthusiastic place, anyway.
* * * *
Vic. Judge Moule, when recently asked to
grant an insolvent Ikey Noses a certificate of dis-
charge, refused to do so, though there were no ob-
jecting creditors, on the ground that insolvent had
wasted his substance in riotous gambling, book-
making being, he decided, a gamble, not a business.
For once Moule was wrong. The essence of all
gambling is that both bettors must have a chance,
whereas, with Ikey’s current odds, the backer has
in the long run no chance whatever. So, if this
Ikey smashed, it was because he went outside his
bookmaking job, or didn’t do the job properly.
The question whether Tarrant, formerly of
Melbourne, now of the Middlesex professionals, should
be included in the English team to play against
Australia and S’Afn'ca, was still being keenly dis-
cussed in London when the last mail left. The
Referee concludes an article: “Lord Harris points
out that the laws of cricket enable Tarrant to play
for this country. No laws can transmogrify an Aus-
tralian into an Englishman.” The Observer says:
“Tarrant is to all intents and purposes an Australian
cricketer, and it is scarcely fair to England’s home-,
bred talent, or to the Australian school of cricket,
to clothe him in the raiment of a cricketer born and
bred in England.” Though that puts Tarrant in an
awkward position, it seems to sum up the general
opinion.


THE “CONFOMAT”
(Regd.)
A Boon to Australians.
UTTVOIG
THIS Hat provides the acme of Comfort
and Luxury in headgear. Is unlike
the ordinary stiff felt hat. It con-
forms—as its name implies—to the wearer’s
head.
If you wear a “Confomat,” your head will
fit the hat—rather than the hat your head.
The head, of itself, makes the shape of the
Hat. Nothing could be more delightful, easy
and comfortable. Headaches impossible.
Handmade by special process from choicest
materials. Exceptionally light and durable.
Fast-dyed. In all the latest shapes and styles.
Guaranteed to give complete satisfaction.
Price, 13/6 at all leading Stores throughout
Australia. The name “Confomat” is regis-
tered, and infringements will be dealt with
according to law.
If unobtainable in your district, write
direct to
THE AUSTRAI HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
h
Yon get more Fuel Miles
out of
SHELL
Uian out of any other Motor Spirit
THAT’S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
£HEAP, Second-Hand 15BrakeH.P.
TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
hmoo'sSchebkr Carburetor
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
f ETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using: Your Own Letter
Paper, invoices,
etc., WITH THE
>i 5 C / 200
Pattnt ZanctiC
Copying &00 *V
&
You simply insert
your writing paper
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
bheact of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforai ed edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS,
Welford Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin. x Bin.
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-,
Please send Money Orders only, not P.O.’s.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.
Mechanical Breakdowns
Don’t Worry Motorists
who carry a Bay State “ Autokit,” Nuts in hitherto
inaccessible places can be easily reached and worked.
The combination fits any nut on any car, as well as the
sparking plug. You should have an “Autokit”
aboard with you—it saves exasperating delays.
Set Ho. 1 consists of handle, reversible ratchet wrench, two steel shanks,
screwdriver, coupling, universal joint, spark plug socket, thirty steel
sockets, white nickel finish, 50/« set,
*
*T w
* m
K-
BAY STATE
Set No. 2—Same as above, except only
12 sockets are provided. 42/6 set.
Send for our 256-Page Catalogue. It’s Post Free.
thomas McPherson & son
582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ĥ
1-1 o U EUR.
ħ
There’s No Difficulty
in getting a shoe to fit your foot at the Rigney Shoe Stores.
We have positively the finest assortment of men’s high-
grade footwear—the newest shapes, makes and styles in a
quarter, half and full sizes.
The Shoe illustrated is a Choice Tan Russian Calf Oxford
Shoe, Back Counter, Circular Vamp, Perforations, Fine-
stitched Welts, 23/=, 25/=. Also Dark Tan Willow Calf
Shoe, 18/6. In Lace Boots, ditto. Also Black, 21/-, 25/=.
Postage, 9d. extra.
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR NEW
CATALOG.
ĥ
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE ST., and
179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. F.
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
C. Rigney,
00
(double‘o')
A. M. L. ff F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
... FOR ...
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
Stock and Station Ag'ents,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD
Manager.
Also at Melbourne (& Brisbane
S. Australia’s most eccentric parson has
a seaside church, where on a hot Sunday
evening last summer he was faced, by only
seven faithful members of the flock. After
ticking them off carefully he startled the little
remnant (which expected to be told that,
dearly beloved, we will now join in singing
hymn number 217) by saying: “Friends,
owing to the smallness of the congregation
there will be no sermon this evening. Those
of you who want to do so may now go down
on the beach —you will find the others, I ex-
pect, on the seaweed.”
The Welshman seized the recent oppor-
tunity to assert himself as the most bubbly
of British subjects. When his bosom swells
with national pride and love of freedom, the
spirit usually moves Taffy to go for all he
can get. It is just that which makes Lloyd
George the most painful Chancellor of the
Exchequer that English Propputy has ever
had to suffer. He isn’t so much the poor
man’s friend as the rich man’s foe; and, if
British Propputy never knew before, it
knows now the real meaning of “giving ’em
Taffy.”
MORE “TRIUMPH” TRIUMPHS.
In the Senior Trophy Race held recently, “Triumphs” were the
four first single-cylinder machines to finish.
This is not the first time that such victories have fallen to the
“Triumph.” In practically every race they have secured first place,
proving conclusively they are the premier motor cycles.
You will do well to call in and inspect one of these machines
before purchasing your mount. Call at our Pitt Street depot any
day, or Friday night before 9. Catalogue on request.
BENNETT & BARKELL, LTD.,
Agents for Triumph, Rudge-Whltworth Motor Cycles,
and Manufacturers of B. & B. Motor Cycles.
234 Pitt St., and 130=2 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
h
HC
FREE
men
“All About
Cycling"
is a 72-page Booklet
THAT EVERY CYCLIST
SHOULD HAVE. It
embraces every phase of
Cycling, including selec-
tion of machine, gears, &c.
Touring, Road and Track
Racing, Training, &c., in
fact it deals with every-
thing that any rider wants
to know about Cycling.
You can obtain a Copy for
the asking. We will post
you a Copy upon receipt
of penny stamp.
SEND AT ONCE, THE
ISSUE IS LIMITED.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne.
255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
92 Pirle Street, Adelaide.
67 Kins Street, Perth.
268-270 Adelaide St., Brisbane
Wellington and
Christchurch,
N.Z.
ĥ
«i»V?
TSSfw
t -^ o '
HAVE
YOU
driven in
a Vehicle
fitted with
m
\
DUNLOP-
KELLY * *
TYRES?
If so, then you have appreciated the
freedom from noise and vibration
associated with our popular Solid
Rubber Tyres, which are now fitted
to thousands of Vehicles.
Do you know that they last for
years on a private conveyance,
double the life of a vehicle, and
can be fitted to new or old wheels
from £5 per pair and upwards ?
« * *
Let at post you • copy of our Illustrated
Catalogue. IT WILL INTEREST YOU.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide, Perth,
Christchurch, N.Z,


THOUSANDS OF NEW IDEAS IN WEDDING GIFTS AT
A. SAUNDERS
£2/15/.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and STAND.
Pure Silver-plated, Richly Hand
Embossed or Engraved; Rustic Stand.
h
THE DIRECT AND LARGEST IMPORTER OE THE CHOICEST UP-TO-DATE
SILVERWARE, OFFERED TO YOU AT THE SMALL ONE-PROFIT PRICES.
Let us Send you our Magnificent 180-Page Silverplate Catalog. It’s Free.
ĥ
10/6.
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver CREAM JUG, Out-
lined.
CHINA DESSERT DISH, Hand-painted, Floral
Design, Full Size. Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
GOODS
EXCEPT
CHINA.
WAITER, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Hand-engraved, Fancy Edge, 8 inches.
Larger, 30/, £2/10/, £3.
VEGETABLE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Highly Bur-
nished, 2 Divisions.
4/6.
Silver-plated Nickel Silver SUGAR
BASIN and TONGS, Blue Glass
Lining.
FOUR BRANCH FLOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Frame, Golden-tinted Glass Tubes.
mm
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated, Richly
Hand-engraved' "id Fluted.
iW
i
i
BISCUIT BARREL, Polished Eng-
lish Oak, Pure Silver-plated, Highly
Burnished Mounts, Patent Handle,
Carved Feet.
30/-
SUGAR and CREAM CASTORS, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Hand-
decorated, Real China.
£2/5/.
LIQUEUR BOTTLE, Hobnail Cut
Glass, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver Frame.
TEA-STRAINER and DRIP STAND,
Silver-Plated, Hard Metal
Base.
TWO-BRANCH SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-plated, Floral Design,
Burnished, Gilt Lined.
8-HOUR
ART
UNION
TICKETS,
1/- EACH,
POST
FREE.
15/6.
CAKE BASKET, Handsomely Embossed.
“Grape” Design. Highly Burnished.
£650
FIRST
PRIZE.
BUY A
LUCKY
TICKET
NOW.
£2/10/.
AFTERNOON CAKE STAND, Comprising Sugar and
Cream, Cake, Bread, and Butter Trays, Pure Silver-
Plated on Nickel Silver, Highly Burnished, Gilt Lined,
Handsomely Fluted, on Ball Feet.
12/6.
BREAD SERVER, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Mother-o’-Pearl Handle.
HONEY or SUGAR JAR,
Silver-plated Frame, Fancy
'"Pansy” Design, China
Bowl.
sag
5/6.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated,
Highly Burnished and Fluted; Glass
Dish.
JUVENILE SINGLE EGG-CUP,
STAND, and SPOON, Silver-plated,
Highly Burnished and Fluted.
VUI
15/6.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Embossed
and Fluted.
15/6.
PICKLE JAR and FORK, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Crystal
Glass Jar.
IISs
F IF
Fpr |r Jfl r Irfj
m
17/6.
DINNER CRUET, Pure Silver-plated;
Crystal Glass Bottles.
CAKE
7/6.
FRUIT DISH, Pure Silver-plated,
Fancy Floral China.
15/6.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS, Pine
Silver-plated. Embossed Handles.
207-
jam DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Fine English Cut
.Crystal Glass.
22/6.
CHINA TEA SET, 40
Pieces, Handsome Floral
and Gilt Design.
5/6.
TEAPOT STAND, Fancy Tile Base, Silver-plated
Frame.
a
15/6.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, Handsomely Decorated
Blue China, Silver-plated Nickel Silver Mounts.
10/6.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated,
Cut-glass Bottles.
£2/10/r
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Engraved, Best Sheffield Steel Blade Knife.
JEWELLERS
UtfCH iCIoCKj
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815.815.817.GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Srarion) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
b SILVERSMITH
tO NSU LTINc


THE CAUSE OF TOOTH
DECAY IS “ACID
MOUTH.”
THE Acid is Lactic
Acid, present in
most months,
and caused by fer-
menting food par-
ticles. It gradually
eats through the
enamel of the
teeth.
(T£
k/F
1
i
*
m
m
7
W PEBECO
f TOOTH
f PASTE
overcomes
Acid Mouth.
' While Pebeco
cleans the teeth
and keeps ihem
white, it over-
comes soft, bleeding
gums and maintains
the mouth in a
healthy condi-
tion. It is a soft,
smooth paste,
pleasant to the
taste, and valuable
in overcoming un-
pleasant breath.
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(Wholesale Only).
fr
vi —►-
Experience Proves
the Value of
Solomon
Solution
*=*■■■" »»»
to Horse Owners.
“Sebastopol. ’2
“We have used SOLOMON
SOLUTION for a number of years
for Sore Backs Girth and
Collar Galls—Greasy Heels—
and all kinds of wounds and
sprains in Horses and Cattle
We have great pleasure in re-
commending it, as no stable
should be without it.”
(Signed)
D. Hanrahan & Sons,
Dairymen.
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists.
Stores and Saddlers everywhere
or post free for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
L.R.W.
=►►►►
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
THE
im. , u.r
* (RECIS * ITERED)
O.H£!L*
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C®^
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
ASTHMACURE
GHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
e *P e ctoration. Asthma, Nervons Coughs,
» ® lee Pl®>ssesB and Oppression immediately
ESSL'i? b y & Co’S INDIAN CIGAR-
rrh.3. Sold by all Chemists.
WHENEVER, you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
ħ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
h
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without tlie Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each. Bottle.
ĥ
Smokers!
ORDER
BY
MAIL.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“POT POURRI ” Cigars.— A fragrant smoke — 3d. each ; 5 for 1/= ; 18/6 per too.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco. —402. tins, 2 /= ; Boz. tins, 4/= ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this —it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI ” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI ” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
iilf tfLjMfMayroya&rTi’ 'Vf*.
S CRAC KAO AC K'#
ISENIOR'
sUg
Built to Beat the Band
q The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are Tun;d to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth Organs
W MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds . 1/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
-ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
Sole Agents
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
A Razor with a Two Years’ Guarantee.
That’s the PLUM RAZOR.
A specially hollow-ground, velvet edged, true Sheffield
SILVER STEEL. Rings like a bell, and gives a smooth,
cosy shave 365 times a year. We’ll keep jt in order free of
charge and guarantee it for 24 months. Try the PLUM.
Price 10/6 posted anywhere.
PLUM RAZOR STROP, 7/6.
SINGLE RAZOR, Ivory Handle, 15/S.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
Plum Strop Dressing, 1/-
SINCLE RAZOR IN LEATHER CASE, 10/6.
PAIR IN MOROCCO LEATHER CASE, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
All the above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors 1/- each.
ħ
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
WAVERLEY FOUHTAIN PENS
m
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: iFREU
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
m.
s®
illiiili!
SiK
mm i
FIDELI7AS
j|!l.
m
■r •><
t lot A-l: ; : "/.M • nv.'.A
i§r!
'? 'Jli H ' :*> •- -4. f />*' >^r'
K : tSL^a,
l\- c
fljf*
0* 9: ? <*
F.Wolff&Soh
•Karlsruhe
Baden
ISi)
Triumph of
Modem Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
FOR
David Braham s Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAP
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
\f EACH POST FREE 1/2
i Quality Not Better
in a
' Guinea Pipe
SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
r S TORf KEEP£RS roBACCOJV/STS
SHOULD SEED FOR OUR TRAPE LIST
Pr. LE6ER ERSON,
formerly Hon. Physician Auckland and Broken Hill
General Hospitals.
Also to Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind.
157 Collins St. (Zerco’s Chambers),
Telephone, City 2375. Melbourne.
Specialty 600.
Consultation bv letter, £1 Is.
mg g
Borated Golden seal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Cafarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations ot ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tho nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
The Evans Chemical Co.
Cicdnaaii, Ohio,
U.S.A.
“Maris Stella” : Of course, you know that
the Australian bush breeds clods—just dull
clods, with no aspirations, no anything; the
chaps whose legs the superior city pulls at
Cup and Show time. Well, here’s some evi-
dence in the case. Orbost is a little bush
village in far and very bushy East Gipps-
land. It is two days’ journey from a rail-
way station, and if a muster was made of all
its inhabitants, men, women and children,
600 would cover the total. This village of
Orbost is not content with the ordinary
State school, good as it is, with a line stall’.
It must have a High, or Continuation,
School. A deputation of one interviewed the
Director of Education, and offered to find
£lOO toward the building of a school. Tate
declined. What about £200? No! £300?
No! “Well, what about £500?“ “Bring
me £5OO and the school’s yours,”
laughed the director. The deputation of one
returned to Orbost, called a meeting of
parents and villagers, told the result of the in-
terview, and opened the list with £5O. An-
other donation of £5O came immediately.
Two others of £25 followed. In two hours
they had £550 collected —£550 collected in a
village with less than 100 houses. I reckon
that's the sanest thing I ever heard of in col-
lections. I’ve put my little bit towards
many things in my time—funds for soldiers’
monuments, for burying policemen, for giv-
ing depressed politicians a send-off, for pre-
senting Papuan ladies with pink dresses, but
never have I so willingly tossed in my little
bit, as I did to the Orbost fund.


X
1
HEADACHES, BILIOUSNESS,
CONSTIPATION,
INDIGESTION
Lack of food causes more than half
our ailments ! Not that we do not
get enough to eat, but we do not
digest what we do eat; that is
thetrouble! We call this indigestion!
It is, in fact, “ starvation,” for
starving means lack of food, and
food is not food until it is digested.
CURED BY
U ndigested
food ferments
in the stomach,
poisoning the blood, dulling the brain,
and causing headaches, biliousness,
constipation and many similar ail-
ments! Sound digestion ensures
good health and Mother Seigel’s
Syrup ensures sound digestion.
The herbal extracts it contains give
tone and strength to the stomach,
aid digestion, make food nourish
you and thus ensure health.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP.
Salimenthol Tablets
for RHEUMATISM.
Do you KNOW of any one who has been cured of
Rheumatism by Mysterious “cureall” pills and
uiedicmes, the composition of which is kept
secret? Of course you do not.
Have you ever known a Doctor to recommend
them or a hospital to use them? Of course you
have not. J
Would anyone but a lunatic take internally an
article containing a drug without knowing what that
drug was? Of course he would not. SALIMEN-
THOL TABLETS and /SAMOL Ointment are pre-
scribed by some of the greatest of the world’s Phy-
sicians and Specialists, and are being used in scores
of hospitals.
THERE IS NO SECRET ABOUT THEM.
Particulars of their composition are published,
and can be obtained by anyone.
SALIMENTHOL TABLETS can be taken by the
most delicate, or where an application is preferred
SAMOL Ointment can be used.
SAMOL Ointment is not an irritant, and does not
require friction when applied. It is a means of
g-ivin-r Salicylic Ester of Menthol by absorption.
Salimenthol is sold in glass Cylinders, price
3s. 6d. ; and Samol, in Tubes, price, Is. 6d., 3s. 9d
and 6s. Obtainable from any chemist, or direct
from the Australian Agent, H. A. Goddard, 96 a
Eagle Street, Brisbane; or branches, 194 Vickery’s
Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9 to 16 Stock
Exchange B’ld’gs, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Eller-
shaw’s B’ld’gs, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s
B’la’gs, Auckland.
Before
HARE’S
COMPOUND
will grow a LUXURIANT
MOUSTACHE, and cover
Bald Patches when all else
fails.
Price, 5/6 Post Free.
After
London Specialities Agenc
ii OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
y,
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
%
w
m
MORBISS I
hree Witches
CWARETTBB
'''"m
6’ for tO 'j
tendon Haw.
HIGHEST GRADE.
Is per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
CARBIDE
For First»Class
Results use
Best
SPF““PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, <>2
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
SHOW TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Don’t Miss the “Tarrant Shows”
at Garage and Show-grounds.
A Gallery of Art in Motors.
Perfect Pictures of Perfect Cars.
Handsome New Season’s Models.
Most Successful Cars of the
Year.
The Cars with the Greatest Sales:
“ Mercedes,” “ F.1.A.T.,”
“F.N.,” “Rover,” "Ford,”
“Commer” Commercial
Cars.
h
TARRANT MOTORS PROPRIETARY LTD.,
104-112 Russell Street, MELBOURNE.
Telephones : Central 3030, 2042 ; City 1280, 534.
SPALDING GOLD MEDAL
Are the most correctly modelled and highly-
finished clubs ever turned out by any manu-
facturer, and whether driver, brassie or iron,
each has been selected with the greatest care
from the playing clubs of the most celebrated
amateurs and professionals.
Every head is cut from a clear block of
either Dogwood or Persimmon, and the irons
have all hand-forged heads, hammered on our
own forges at Putney Wharf, London. Every
shaft is specially selected from the finest sun-
dried, split Hickory obtainable, and only
the most experienced workmen are engaged
to make up these clubs.
Prices: Drivers or Brassies, 10/6; Irons, 9/-
All goods bearing the Spalding Trade
Mark are Guaranteed.
From all the better dealers, or
GOLF
CLUBS
ĥ
Model o—Driver or Brassie
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, of Australasia Ltd
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE FOUR CYLINDER “SPEEDWELL”
5-6 H.P. MOTOR CYCLE.
I
W
i
m
a|:
wk
Every part of this Machine has been made
from the best of chosen metals, specially to
withstand highest tests and good wearing
qualities, the manufacture of same being the
outcome of years of experience. It does not
consist of parts collected from various sources
that have to be somehow adapted to each other.
When we can sell a 5-6 H.P. 4-Cylinder Motor
Cycle, shaft-driven, at practically the same
price as an ordinary high-class Motor Cycle, we
feel that we have achieved something of which
to be proud. The absence of vibration, the
silent engine, the reserve power, the hill-
climbing qualities, added to its safety and re-
source, makes our 5-6 Speedwell the most perfect Motor Cycle, for pleasure, on the road.'
Call and let us show you one, and explain the various modern details; they will interest you.
Our price is moderate, and we can arrange easy terms of payment to suit you.
If you are too busy to call during the day, we keep open every Friday Night until 9 o’clock
for your convenience.
BENNETT 8 WOOD, LTD.,
Corner of Pitt and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney
DIARRHOEA
mmm
if con
Freeman’s Chlorodyne never fails to cure even the worst cases <
Diarrhoea. It rapidly stops the pain, dispels all sensations of
collapse, and restores comfort. In such kindred troubles as Dysentery,
Cramp, Spasms, Ague, and Colic, its value as a home remedy is priceless.
Price 1/IJ, 2/9, and 4/6 per bottle.
Used by doctors all over the world. Refuse imitations, which cannot
possess the wonderful soothing and healing powers of Freeman's.
If your Chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle
he can quickly
get it.
TRADE
MARK
FREEMAN’S
CHLORODYNE
V'
. i t
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
♦
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
•n P owers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal’* says—“ Bengers Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.”
BENGERS FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
823
TIIHE BEST STORIES written
I appear in The Lone Hand
Price sixpence.
in Australia
each month.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
J-H.S.: You “put things plainly so that
even the ‘worker’ may understand.” The Bulle-
tin s idea is that 3 r ou put them so crookedly that
even the vyorker may be misled. (1) “Early this
month C.S.R. shares were quoted at £45, and at that
price they were paying a dividend at the rate of
£4 Bs. lOd. p.c. Increased expenses would mean
reduced dividends, and a corresponding slump in the
market value of the shares.” The market price of
the shares has no more bearing on the merits of the
case than the price of mummies or boot-laces. Those
£45 shares are £2O paid. That is to say, the
public pays £4 Bs. lOd. p.c. on £2O of capital, and
the same on £25 of Stock Exchange “water.” Why
should the public pay interest on “water”? You
are a lawyer ; and if some fool of a stationer chose
to pay £lO per stick for sealing-wax, would you feel
yourself bound to pay him £lO, plus his profit for
the goods? As a matter of fact, the C.S.R. Co., on
the capital actually subscribed by shareholders, is
paying over IS p.c. (2) It wasn’t “admitted” that
all the sugar workers could earn £5 or £6 by piece-
work. If every man went on the piece-work jobs,
the whole industry would stop. Mill-work is as
essentially a weekly-wage job as domestic service is,
and the co. never offered piece-work prices for it.
(3) The Bulletin, by cartoon and otherwise, op-
posed the abolition of the Protective sugar duty.
This, however, has nothing to do with the row—ex-
cept to show that you don’t know the facts about
any single phase of it Jaimy: Keep clear
Pinnaroo: No; The Bulletin's cheeks have always
been pink.... Abre: Hordern’s fire was first; don’t
remember date Franky F.: The heathen will
have to do without their toast-racks Con R.:
His son Brown: Neat; but — Unknown:
Sorry unsuitable... .T.G. (Q.): An avalanche of
jagged sentences. Fortunately we side-stepped in
time, and, leaning on our fountain-alpenstocks,
watched the mass go roaring down into the basket.
....Q. Quill: very mild love yarn. No grip....
Hakea: Some grace, but not enough skill... .F.E.D.:
Nancy will not gather posies here. Give her a new
rig-out and implore her to do her hair, and you
might find a place for her in some quiet poet’s
corner... .H.R. (V.) : “Noises” pleasant, but hope-
less. ... .C.A.S.: Rejected without a pang; .F.A.W.:
Fairly good first attempt; but it is some way below
publication standard. Try to score off your own
bat. . . .A.E.G.: Crude work. Forty-one and a-half
verses are a trifle too much. Make an effort to pack
the idea into 39....Zeit: Very well, we won’t send
you any money for it... .Bellerive: Tragedy resumed
at the old address:—
AN INDIAN ASSASSIN.
Having learned of the sins
Of his Asiatic wife,
An Indian vowed to
Put an end to her Life;
While she lay hushed in slumber
In her sleeping-room,
In a diabolical manner
He sealed her doom ;
He emerged from the darkness
And turned the key in the door,
And piteously shrieked the victim
As fierce flames did roar;
For his crime the assassin
Sacrificed his own' life—
He perished in the flames
With his ill-fated Wife.
... .E.P. (N.S.W.) : Julia sacked for being out of
tune. .. .Doc.: Try another prescription. Patient
much worse.... E. O’B.: Plain bush jingle. Too
rough.... Armis: Rather neatly turned: —
I know a girl that’s in a bar,
So quiet and demure; .
I thought her just a guiding star,
And she loved me, I felt sure.
One day I entered, for a taste;
A young dude with a leer
Had his arm around her waist,
So I had bitter beer.
. ...C.0.P.: You can’t make the literary chips fly
quite fast enough J.M. (Q.) : Guess you have got
ahead of the fashions. Anyhow, the verse is too
dowdy. “The Picture That’s Turned to the Wall”
is a baffling production. Consider it when it’s
printed this way: “Tkire’s a picture turned to the
wall in the old homestead bj' the creek, where the
pines grow so tall and the people speak in hushed
whispers of the one who left them long ago to roam
in distant lands, leaving another’s burden that she
might never know the whited sepulchre that branded
him with disgrace, leaving him to bear the bitter
blame the craven lacked courage to face.” We fol-
lowed you fairly well until you got to the whited
sepulchre; then you sort of melted away. .. .A.N.:
Some of the inventory is too fine for print. Have
lifted the first verse:—
Cheeks like alabaster,
Hair like woven silk,
Ears that nestle ’neath a brow
As pale as thrice-skimmed milk.
How about moving the ears a little further back?
. ...T.K.: “Reverie” is good patriotism, but inferior
verse. . . .L.F.Y.: Idea small, and vou haven’t treated
it skilfully.... P. O’R.: We still prefer Spenser.
Application for poet’s license refused.... L.K. (V.):
You might try to work it up again. .. .Q.Q. (V.):
Scenery arrives too late. And it is very rocky in-
deed ... .Jimmy C. (V.): Much too dry... .A.Y.A.:
Guess not... .8.E.P.: Unsuitable... .Rex: You are
late, and have missed the vehicle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
A.A.8.: Quite right, it won’t do. In fact, it is
Y.Y.Z. .. .R.W.G.: The first is too weak to stand,
and the second too old to walk... .F.C.J.: Hardly
good enough, though there’s humor in it.
Though the lamentable ex-Crown Prose-
cutor of N. S. Wales brands as liars sundry
humane school-inspectors, teachers, Scotch
farming commissioners, clergymen, labor or-
ganisers, and travellers of all brands, he
will perhaps admit the evidence of a cow
cocky who butts into an argument on
the matter in Tweed (N.S.W.) Times
(26/7/T1). Says this witness, Robert Gil-
lies :
Why should I blush to announce myself a dairy
farmer? For this reason: The most degraded and
spineless creatures I have ever met were dairymen.
Certainly there are exceptions.... One farmer, near
Brooklet, used to feed his 12s. 6d.-a-week man on
the bull calves; the man left because the calves
were getting ahead of him, and were tied up and
starved till he was ready for them. And I’ve seen
more than one Vernon boy out after the cows at 3
o’clock in the morning, barefooted, with a lantern,
in order to get to the factory and have first dip at
the skim milk tank. Another pioneer and grabber
I saw get out of his buggy on the way to church to
pluck the ears off a half rotten padymelon because
scalps were worth 3d. a time then. These are the
men who are independent to-day, and cry out loudest
about artificial wages—men who have made them-
selves out of some other poor devil’s sweat.
If Mr. Gillies isn’t careful, he will be get-
ting unpopular among his fellow cow-
cpckies.


W/.
H
mm?
2%«
?m.\i
mnm
*m
flpp>
,„y/"-*2s ei^.
pWl'U"".’
' /
■Sam*
m
iW/»
fit Df
m
y-'.'r.--
-f
tiXW
m
m
WM
(SgSm/mm
IS>
*ilvWjJj//>t///Mn;/,
/z
y.
A
- - K
/y
4 .
r> -“ N
'JBI
lrn,
I
ms
3
fs.
s *■
: >
IU
<^-J
5552
Grade Pianos
BEALE
BEALE
BEALE
BEALE
BEALE
BEALE
H iOfh-Grade PIANOS are made in the largest Piano factories in the British
Empire and the most comprehensive piano factories in the world.
High-Grade PIANOS were awarded the Grand Prize and Three Gold
O
medals at the Franco-British Exhibition, London, 1908, against all competition.
H igh-Grade PIANOS exclusively have been chosen for the Palatial Strand
Palace Hotel, London, the largest and most luxurious hotel in the World’s
Metropolis.
High-Grade PIANOS, exceeding 15,000 in number, have been purchased
in Australia, and we have thousands of letters of recommendation from all
classes of people throughout the Commonwealth.
High-Grade PIANOS have been supplied to Her Excellency Lady North-
cote; to State Government House, Sydney; and to State Government House,
Melbourne.
High-Grade PIANOS contain patents and improvements specially designed
to assure durability in this climate. These patents are not obtainable in any
other pianos.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST„ ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Offices also at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay
and Townsville, Q. ; Kalgoorlie, W.A. cash or easy terms, write for catalogue. 25 years’ guarantee.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
The Utmost Care ii\ the Smallest Details. Save Middlemen’s Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


HIRAM CARPENTER’S
WONDERFUL CURE
or SKIN DISEASE
"I have been afflicted for twenty years
with an obstinate skin disease, called by some
M. D.’s. psoriasis, and others leprosy, com-
mencing on my scalp; and in spite of all I
could do, with the help of the most skilful
doctors, it slowly but surely extended until a
year ago this winter it covered my entire
person in the form of dry scales. For the
last three years I have been unable to do any
labor, and suffering intensely all the time.
Every morning there would be nearly a dust-
nful of scales taken from the sheet on my
, some of them half as large as the enve-
lope containing this letter. In the latter part
of winter my skin commenced cracking open.
I tried everything, almost, that could be
thought of, without any relief. The 12th of
June I started West, in hopes I could reach
the Hot Springs. 1 reached Detroit and was
so low I thought I should have to go to the
hospital, but finally got as far as Lansing,
Mich., where I had a sister living. One
Dr. treated me about two weeks, but did
me no good. All thought I had but a short
time to live. I earnestly prayed to die.
Cracked through the skin all over my back,
across my ribs, arms, hands, limbs; feet badly
swollen; toe-nails came off; finger-nails dead
and hard as a bone; hair dead, dry and lifeless
as old straw. Omy God! how I did suffer.
“My sister wouldn’t give up; said, ‘We
will try Cuticura.’ Some was applied on one
hand and arm. Eurekal there was relief;
stopped the terrible burning sensation from
the word go. They immediately got Cuticura
Resolvent, Ointment and Soap. I commenced
by taking Cuticura Resolvent three times a
day after meals; had a bath once a day, water
about blood heat: used Cuticura Soap freely;
applied Cuticura Ointment morning and even-
ing. Result: returned to my home in just six
weeks from the time I left, and my skin as
smooth as this sheet of paper. Hiram E.
Carpenter, Henderson, N. Y., U. S. A.”
The above remarkable testimonial was
written January 19, 1880, and is republished
because of the permanency of the cure.
Under date of April 22, 1910, Mr. Carpenter
Wrote from his present home, 610 Walnut
St. So., Lansing, Mich., U. S. A.: “I have
never suffered a return of the psoriasis and
although many years have passed I have
not forgotten the terrible suffering I endured
before using the Cuticura Remedies.”
r
r%
it
cist
An Interesting*
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S. A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Cure the drunkard!
My treatment is practical commonsense.
The most logical and rational yet offered.
Treats the MIND as well as body. Alters
whole outlook on life; makes patient
cheerful, hopeful, happy. Eradicates
craving by solely hygienic means ; pro-
motes health from the start. Write to-day.
Consultation Form and particulars in
plain envelope. Address: The B. Hapwell
(London) Treatment, 479 Collins Street,
Melbourne. If caseurgent , treatment sent
by return post on receipt of Postal Note
for £1 Is. State case fully. Inviolable
privacy assured.
Leading Melbourne Lawyer says:
“ The best guinea’s-worth ever offered for
this purpose!”
I
$>
y c£ATHSV
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
Allcocks
Plasters
The World?s Greatest
External Remedy.
&
tst
m
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs
Allcock's Plasters act as a preventive
as well as a curative.
Preventcoldsbecomingdeep seated
Rheumatism in Shoulder
Relieved by using Allcock’s Plasters
Athletes use them for
Stiffness or Soreness of muscles.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
For over 60 years it has been the standard remedy for
all aches and pains. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A Brandreth’s Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works :
Birmingham, England,
ħ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention 's also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
RAM
RIFE
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction guaranteed. 0ver7000in use.
If there is a stream, sprme: or pond within a mile- — Write for Free Plans and Book.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wbicb excels all otHers
in improving the beauty of tbe skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis Has been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No otber soap possesses
tbese cjualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Klifton” : A long narrative by the auctioneer re-
lative to the horse’s beautiful shape, its sprightly
movements, etc., was followed by a bid of £5. The
auctioneer tried hard to get an advance, but in vain
—-none of the local butchers seemed to be operating
this day. “Well, gentlemen,” he said at last, “1
can’t waste any more time on this lot. Can I obtain
any advance on five? At five; going at five, going,
going—” He was just about to smite the table
when Sid Kidman drifted in, threw a critical glance
at the crock, and exclaimed: “Hold on, I’ll give you
five-and-six for him!”
* * * *
“Button-stick”: I read lately of a procession of
full-grown bulls of assorted ages through the streets
of a Maoriland freezing town. They were on their
I way to the works, to be patted on the head with a
I pole-axe, and shipped to the land where the bands
still play “The Roast Beef of Old England.” I
wouldn’t grumble if the indiarubber beef was to be
planted on the general public, for if the English
’ousewife is chump enough not to know bull-beef
when it’s introduced to her —well, her troubles, to
say nothing of her husband’s ! But the M.L. paper
states calmly that the bull-beef goes to fill army con-
tracts, and that one of the clauses in army meat con-
tracts is that one-third of the supply may be bull-,
beef. Alas, my poor brothers of the button-stick in
1 John Bull-beef land! I remember that a cheer used
to pass round when the day’s rations were drawn and
the word went along that it was “brown bully to-day”
instead of the usual “red bully.” The brown was
Australian and the red was American, and they were
so christened because both the label and the, beef
were brown in the one and red in the other. The
| Australian “bully” had a distinct flavor, with a real
I taste of beef or mutton, and was not too salt. The
Yankee stuff was devoid of the faintest taste of
meat, resembled a boiled-up mass of Strings and fat,
was swamped in spice and pepper to give it some
flavor, and was so salt that unless there was a river
handy it was risking a day’s torture by thirst to eat
it. But if this country and M.L. are going to ring
in their old bust-up bulls, I’m afraid the reputation
of the Australian “brown-bully” will slump.
# ■Jt #
“Boozy Dick”; Re that mouse in the Melbourne
lady’s pie. I called for a feed of steak and oyster in a
Dago’s fish emporium a while ago. When Homer’s
countryman brought the feast I found a cockroach
had wandered into the sauce. When I drew An-
tonioso’s attention to the funeral in my mildest
manner, he promptly whipped the corpse away, and
returned with: “It is alia right now.” But I do wish
he had Wiped his finger first.
“Quidam”: Have invented a new use for the phono-
graph. By taking a three-minute record, the machine
can be converted into a thoroughly practical and
effective scientific apparatus for timing the boiling
of eggs. When the music stops off comes the egg.
Could anything be simpler? Personally, I regard it
as a greater invention than wireless telegraphy or
paper-bag cookery; and, for the greater benefit of
mankind, it is not patented.
* * * *
Maifra (Vic.) beet sugar factory, in Labor member
McLaughlan’s district, promises to be one of the
best of the Socialistic ventures of the Weary Govern-
ment. Ityer, the Californian manager, has set 15
such factories go inf in the Yankee West, and looks
like lifting this local white elephant out of the mud.
Some of the factory’s strong supporters are, as usual,
strenuous Anti-Soshers in theory ; but they like the
Sosh they’ve got so much that they never see a
Minister without biting his ear for some more of the
Curse.
* * * *
“Billy Mug”; “Huffin Guffin” (B. 3/8/’ll) doesn’t
know much about the newsagenev business. He has
worked out a nice little sum to prove that the agent
gets 6s. 3d. for every 50 penny-paper customers, pays
the actual runner 35., and hangs on to 3s. 3d. for
doing nothing, or thereabouts. But he has forgotten
the customer who doesn’t pay at all, and on my
own experience I reckon that that brigand absorbs
one-fifth of the agent’s supposed profit. And when
he has provided for that brigand he has also to
provide for another one, overlooked by “Huffin” —
the one who calls with a rent-book on Monday
mornings. * * *
The outcry against the use of osprey plumes has
led to a ch'eekv fraud. Finding that the sales of
plumes were falling off, British and other European
swindlers announced that a means had been dis-
covered of making an artificial osprey plume so per-
fect that detection was impossible. Here was a
chance for lovely woman to gratify her vanity and
preserve her self-respect. She started wearing the
bogus decorations in large quantities. Then a
number of bird-papers became suspicious, and a
scientific investigation proved that the “imitation”
was the real article.
A TALE OF BILL AND JOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The British Ambassador is conferring' with the
French Foreign Office as to which part of the Congo
country should be given by France to Germany in
exchange for a free hand being allowed to France
in Morocco. —Recent cable.
While Burglar Bill on burgling feet
Was slouching round his nightly beat,
An ancient pal he chanced to meet
In valiant Bludger Joe.
“Wot’s up, my bloke?” said Bill, irate—
“ Wot cranky notion’s in your pate,
That you should dare to wi-o-late
My bizness quarter so?”
The Bludger’s dander promptly rose
(He never feared the hostile blows
Of traps and law-abiding foes —
He gave and took his fill).
“O Bill,” says he, “this bloomin’ street
Will suit, I think, my lovely feet
As well as fit the tootsies neat
Of bullyin’ Burglar Bill.”
As when two fierce hyenas scowl,
With mutual hate and mutual growl,
Who chance to cross in nightly prowl
Each other’s quest of prey,
So did this fierce marauding pair
Upon each other grimly glare,
And stand with threatening jimmies there
Intent on bloody fray;
Until a notion struck B. Bill.
Says he: “I have no wicked will
In foolish fight the blood to spill
Of you, old Bludger Joe;
If you my quarter will wa-cate,
I give you leave to burgle straight
The precious spoons and silver-plate
In Bergman’s Golden Row.
“You need but round the corner go,
And there’s the stuff you’d like to stow” —
“Praise Gawd from whom all blessin’s flow!”
Cried out enraptured Joe;
“To crack that Row I make a start —
You are, O Bill, a gen’rous heart;
You always take a comrade’s part,
And never spile his show!”
And so they parted, well content,
And when the night was nearly spent.
Beneath a load of plunder bent
These heroes met again.
Said they: “It was this statesmanship
As gave us coves a useful tip,
And saved us from a foolish slip
And breaking heads in vain!”
Envoi.
Of course when Deutschland says to France:
“No longer will you proudly prance,
And bid your legions fierce advance
Against the Moorish foe,
Unless you show where / come in,
And grab my share of land and tin”—
One must not think with wicked grin
Of Bill and Bludger Joe.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.


Parrot
Brand
RECISTEP-iO
BOSISTO'S PARROT BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
Used by all
Athletes, s®
Parrot
Brand
Refuse all substitutes
that may be offered.
'
■
m
m
m
m
mn
mm
.< 'i . f v
■ a
i
;?:• 1
IS
s£>
\
/ :;
■
- a
m
m
'
mis
SHt
M
/ ij
salt
'
mm
%Ui :
-i" ■•
-
II
■.
i.r:
M*
K
iggS
■
7WF"- * ■
* f. ; r.
Insist upon having
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.’
Bosisto’s “ Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil, the famed remedy for Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis.
If,
TOO*’
Of
30
A Reliable, Keyless, Fly-back, Centre Second
Watch, in Oxidised Steel Case—the “ Trotter,”
for official timing and professional purposes, 25/-
“ Derby” Double Chronograph, gives instan-
taneous records in minutes and seconds. Three-
quarter plate Lever, Ruby Jewelled, fine Chro-
nometer Expansion Balance, Breqnet Hair
Spring. Solid Silver Open Case, £6/10/-;
Hunting, £7/10/*. 18ct. Gold Case: Open
Pace, £2O ; Hunting, £22.
Our Leading Watch Values.
An Extra Strong Watch, manufactured
specially for us at the Waltham Factory.
Sterling l silver case, three-quarter plate,
jewelled lever movement. Grand value, £3/10/-
Bushman’s Lever Watch, specially suitable for
hard town and country wear. Keyless Lever
movement, jewelled, non-magnetic, dust and
damp proof Oxidised Stee'l case. £l/1/-
Attractive Ladies’ Waltham
Lever Watch, Three-quarter
Plate, Jewelled Compensating
Balance, Engraved lOct. Gold
Case, £B/10/-; 14ct. Gold,
£lO/10/- ; 18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
4
V,
V
m
M
rz
m
riS
s*.
is
553 s
nr.'.
-Or.'.*.
•.v.vJ.v.
aso -o
n
3a
'fir.
m
‘Av
V-V
'.v.ori
ft®
r&S
m
•AS
wa
VAi*.
mm
/•*'* »t
•••/O'
m
mm
ym
WAsa
-i/r.
*AV
«K
©»
VAV
Write for our
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Every Stewart Dawson Watch guaranteed in writing, and given a week’s trial.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
(Australia) Ltd. f
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT UNE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN D.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .. ~
ORONTES . ~ ~ .
OMR. AH
OPHIIi ....
ORAMA (Building) ~
12,130 Regd. Tons.
12,129 „
12,124 „ „
12,077 ~
12.036 ~
9.023 ~
8,282 „
6,814 ~
13,000 ~
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ous 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private
Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE', ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital . . . . . . £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp &- Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Hankins: business.
THE
Australian Bank of Bommeree
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) . . £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark. Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . 413,494 810
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) . . . . 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.LIC;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . • • • • £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 1
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual Che
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance. ■
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord D eutscher Lloyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAOY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide-;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
TIIOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
THC RB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Ail OLL'cUUtUb UILCU VVILII -I ./
f New Steamer. b Triple screw.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to£li l*s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£112 (First-class each way);
£B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agent,s in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
dfdfg
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
September 2.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 27.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and ail other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
% YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
SEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them ? ”
describing many delightful Island trips from
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
2S
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO
repayable by instalments extending over 30 year
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fa\orai>le terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds or Certificated C.P’s.
and Associated O.L’s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post Office Agency, or from
Crown Land' Agents and at the Head Office, MOOIIE STREET, SYDNEY. J. 11. Daviks, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
h
£2,991,560
£1,969,435
£2,991,560
£7,952,555
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Auditors :
Alfred (Jeorsre Milson, Esq. ; William Harrih<rton Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 165, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 57. Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and A gents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable'remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,400,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . 1,500,000 0 0
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. ‘ Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. MogES, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: IV. R. Savers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office-. 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, F.sq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN ™ c a '°cVLW" E
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
THE OCEAft
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-streat, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 4:90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Deben-
tures, Stock, & First Mortgages .. £41,000 0 0
Directors : It. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman; Hon. J. M. Pratt;
J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander
M'Cracken. .TAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
ĥ
Zaw Points
■£- /nventorj
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. >l. CALLINAIM, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
A N Australian’s Two Hands — THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cpst the same.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
'
S.S. Kyarra (7000), Satur -
day, Sept. 2 and Sept. 30.
- Transhipping at Fre-
mantle to all N. West
Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, Sept. 2.
S.S. Innamincka, Sept. 9.
S.S. Marloo, Sept. 16.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
f J'o VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F- H. —S.
Federal*Houlder-Shire Lines*
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ESSEX,”
11,400 Tons. H. W Robertson, Commander.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about Kith. Sept.
„ ~ ~ ADELAIDE ~ 24th. Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships. The
superior third class accommodation, comprised of two,
four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining-room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Sur-
geon and Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and
(or) Suez routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. , Third Class.
FARES .. 4149 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals bv
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sj'dney and Brisbane;
11. JONES & C0.,-Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEAOHARN & CO., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & GO., Ltd., Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
LONDON, England.
of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/(3, ami Double Benroonis
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK WORTH, Manager.
'EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant*
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, K.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, X.S.M.
Branches in all parts of the world.


h
The Great Winter Pleasure
Trip to Sunny Queensland
H
m
w
m
r*
M
-■ .
SEEN
THROUGH
A CAIRNS
TUNNEL.
CAIRNS
is picturesquely situated, has a healthy
climate, and the temperature in winter
seldom falls below 50°. First-class
hotel accommodation at Cairns and
Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be
obtained at a reasonable tariff, and the
fishing at Cairns is excellent. A trip
to the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North
o ueensland should not be missed.
For Fares and all Particulars
•• . apply to ...
HOWARD SMITH GO. LTD
by Modern
Inter-State
Steamships.
SMOOTH WATER
SPRING-LIKE CLIMAT
Up-to-Date and Comfortable
Steamships.
r
, - - -
• ' .
ft. ' jvo;
■
BARRON GORGE.
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows: —
OR the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs between the
r 1 Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest of the sea trips of Aus-
tralasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands, covered with foliage strange to
southern eyes, and the boat is ever rounding headlands, streaming into fine bays and estuaries. The
famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.”
l—
iWmm
1
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
WEST AUSTRALIA. SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
VICTORIA. NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND
and all porLs in l|leh
Australian stated
ADELAIDE S. C 9 11° A.U.S.N.C? LIMITED
HOWARD SMITH C?L!?' HUDDART PARKER & CPPJTLT 3
M9IIWRAITH, M?EACHARN * C? PIT L TD
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO. LTD.
AUSTRALASIAN UNITED STEAM NAVIGATION GO. LTD.


A WONDERFUL SALE OF PEGGY BAGS,
*
It isn’t often that it comes in everybody’s way to
secure a genuine bargain in handbags, but that’s
what thousands of Sydney women are enjoying now,
at A. Saunders’ enormous sale of 10,000 bags, and
are now offering at genuine reductions of 50 per
cent, and 75 per cent. Beautiful handbags they are
too, smart, up-to-date, long-wearing, from the dainty
little Purse-bag at is., to the beautiful “Fitted”
Peggy at Bs. 6d., each one being simply wonderful
value and genuinely reduced, such as 12s. 6d. bags
to 2s. 6d., 10s. 6d. peggys to Is. 6d. Here’s a
pretty example for 2s. 9d. ’Tis of peal, leather-lined,
with strong nickel frame, substantial handles, and
perfect finish; simply splendid value for the small
price asked —which does not include the postage, i.e.,
6d. extra. You ought to send for one, and the free
price-list of sale bags as well, from A. Saunders,
Sydney’s leading Jeweller, Silversmith, Optician,
807-817 George Street, Sydney.*
PIKE BROTHERS Limited
Our advance shipment of GENUINE HAND-PLAITED
ĥ
PANAMAS
has arrived.
We are offering some
particularly good
values at
! 25/- and 30[.
The Plaiting and Odor Perfect.
The Assortment Complete.
ħ
BRISBANE.
Townsville, Toowoomba and London.
O.T. LIMITED.
Tlie fourth half-yearly meeting of shareholders in
O.T. Limited was held at the company’s offices on
August 23. Mr. J. Dixon, chairman of directors,
presided. The accounts showed a net profit of
£5105 17s. 7d. for the half-year ended June 30,
and a dividend at the rate of 15 per cent, per annum
was declared. The chairman, in moving the adop-
tion of the accounts, said that, owing to the
large increase in trade, it had now become
necessary to manufacture in Sydney as well as in
Melbourne, and that it would be necessary to at once
add to the present Melbourne factory, in order to
cope with the increasing demand for the company’s
lines. The trade for July this year was 92 per cent,
over the sales for July, 1910. In referring to the
new issue of shares, he remarked that in taking over
the world’s rights, the prospects of the company
were practically unbounded, as the company had the
sole right to the name “0.T:,” and the exclusive
manufacture of the beverage. The report and ac-
counts were adopted.*
The King of the Belgians is an ardent and practi-
cal motorist, and displays a close personal interest
in cars and their construction, also in accessories, as
is evidenced by his choice of tyres—the well-known
Avons of British manufacture.*
Legral Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES. No. 6818.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
BETWEEN FREDERICK WILLIAM HOLLAND
Petitioner ISABELLA MARION HOLLAND
(formerly Isabella Marion Martin) Respond-
ent and PATRICK ALLSOPP Co-Respondent.
To ISABELLA MARION HOLLAND late of Orange
and PATRICK ALLSOPP late of Orange.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FREDERICK WIL-
LIAM HOLLAND has commenced a suit against
ISABELLA MARION HOLLAND the abovenamed
Respondent in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground of her
adultery with Patrick Allsopp the abovenamed Co-
Respondent AND TAKE NOTICE that you and each
of you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the tenth day of November next and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition
filed herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 24th day of July, 1911.
GEORGE DAVIDSON,
Petitioner’s Solicitor,
Mudgee.
Bv his agent—
FREDERICK HORACE GREAVES,
Solicitor,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar— . . ,
JOHN GEO. LEARY, Chief Clerk.
Public Notices.
I\TOTICE is hereby given that the PATENTEE of
In AUSTRALIAN PATENT No. 2857, dated 29th
March. 1905, for ** is
“IMPROVEMENTS in PACKING MACHINES, is
prepared to satisfy any demands and all require-
ments of the public respecting the said invention.
Further particulars and information obtainaoie
fr °OOLLISON and Co., PATENT ATTORNEYS, 483
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and EAGLE
CHAMBERS, KING WILLIAM STREET, ADt
LAIDE.
I\l OTICE is hereby given that the PA TENTH E3c
IN AUSTRALIAN PATENT No. 16,168, dated the
27th October, 1909, for vIPAI
“IMPROVEMENTS RELATING to MECHANJLAU
PLAYERS for MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS,
Are prepared to satisfy any demands on all req
ments of the public respecting the said y f .
Further particulars and information obta
from COLLI SON and Co., PATENT
483 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE, and SAGE
CHAMBERS, KING WILLIAM STREET, ADt
LAIDE.
Missingg Friends.
Roland ell wood terry shijtt
—or TERRY. Anyone knowing tn
whereabouts of above person, who
Loughbro’. England, November. J“ u °’
Otorohanga, W. T. W.. New Zealand, thence
for Sydney, August, 1909, please com
cate w’ith
W. A.,
Rtttt.f.tin, Sydney —
RAY TANSEY is requested to com-
municate with
BROTHER R,
Crosswell, N.a.
IN
BANANA LAND
The Brisbane Scotchbyterians are going
to establish a residential college “within” the
Bananaland ’Varsity, and have secured
Charles Lilley’s old home as a site for it.
There is an appropriateness about this; for
no one worked harder than the good Old
democrat to get a ’Varsity for Queensland.
He was chairman of the Commission which
reported in favor of its establishment.
It is not only N.S.W. school inspectors
and teachers who complain of the slavery of
the Cow. Bananaland’s inspector Kennedy
drops this into his official report:—
Home work has to be reduced to a minimum in
the dairying sections of the Brisbane and Gympie
districts on account of parents’ demands on their
children. ... A boy of 10 or 12 years arrived late
at school on inspection-day. He had been helping
at milking since daybreak, and was so tired that he
fell asleep sitting in school.
Poor little slave —too young to have a vote,
and too insignificant, therefore, to have the
attention of office-hungry politicians.
Bananaland, which begins to suffer from
the exhilarated feeling that comes with the
sixth drink or so, is credited with harboring
an idea, on the part of its State legislators,
that £5OO a year isn’t a penny too much for
their services. It certainly wouldn’t be any
too much to pay legislators if they were
w-anted. But when Queensland pays out its
£5OO a nob, it ought to reflect that there is
a National body which could comfortably do
two-thirds of the work, and do it better;
while the other one-third could be much
better done by two or probably three small
local one-llouse bodies representing south-
ern, central and north Bananaland.
The Queensland squatters are up. against
the carriers just now, so they are going to
do away with the bullocky and run motor-
waggons. Two or three cos. to that end
have been formed, so it is reported. But,
even if the whole thing isn’t a bluff, the
motors will want capable drivers, and those
drivers will be more easily organised into a
solid union than the bullockies are. More-
over, when the bullocky goes on strike he
has to feed his bullocks and stand the loss
of earnings; whereas when the big strike of
motor-men comes, there will be a heap of in-
terest accumulating all the time on the wag-
gons which were paid for by the squatters.
If it isn’t bluff, Longwood may yet be heard
wailing for the return of “the good old
days” of Spot and Strawberry.
The Bridal Shower.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out glass, china, furniture and all sorts of useful
and ornamental gifts were showered upon the happy
couple.— Brisbane daily.
The happy couple lightly left the door
Of her paternal (or maternal) mansion;
Biz heart was full —and hers! Nay, beg no more
To hear the story of its glad expansion ;
They left her home, the world was all before them,
When sudden (saith our journal) tumbled o'er them
A novel shower of fans and opera-glasses,
Of Paris gloves and priceless bric-a-brac,
Of carven Buddhas, ornamental brasses
And gauds of ivory carved with cunning k’>ack;
No place Was there for paltry wares and petty
In all this hail of wonderful confetti.
Cut glass came down with many a dainty barrel
Designed to hold preserves or biscuit fine,
And all the splendor of the bride’s apparel
Was dimmed by missiles in the morning shine;
Oh, ne’er a lass, since Eve was A bm’s idol,
Was handled half so madly at l.cr bridal.
What olden myth of orgies Bacc' malian
Was ever half so strange a tale as this
Plain story of a marriage—all Australian
From Wedding March to mother’s parting kiss,
When silver spoons and volumes bound in vellum
Came hurtling on the bridegroom’s cerebellum!
A marble clock, with vases intermingled,
Came chiming through that lovely fusillade,
Aud sundry silver trifles gaily jingled
And lent the shower a sweet, harmonious aid ;
And once a curious inlaid Chinese table
Sped flying like a brick from ancient Babel.
How shall man venture in the marriage medley,
If, on the day he ties the fatal knot,
His shoulders sag beneath the missiles deadly
Of wedding guests who heave their little lot
Of presents on the hapless new-wed mortal,
And drop him like a bullock at the portal?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 26, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The Statham-Thorn marriage and pre-
liminaries have been eating up what reserve
force we had left after the Carnival-week
frivols. Enthusiastic girl pals rallied around
the bride-elect, and, in her honor, worked
the teapot overtime every day of the week. The
most notable party was that given by
the Taylor cousins, of Belle Vue, which was
attended by the Vision and the pick of the
Very Best. The wedding noose was knotted
firmly by the Archbishop of Brisbane and
Dean Pattinson, the bride bearing up in
ninon and satin, and exquisite Brussels lace.
The Vision was in pale blue foulard, and a
hat with a bird of paradise roosting a-top.
INGRATITUDE.
FRIEND: “Hullo, Isaacs! I hear you haf disowned your son Jacob. Vateffer is der matter?"
ISAACS: “Yes, der foot! I haf no patience with him. I start him in pizness, und he goes
und pays offices mit a swimming bath on der floor upove, und a fire station
over der road."
The Government House clan is still whirl-
ing after meetings, sports gatherings,
Y.M.C.A. objects, dances, and other pagan
pastimes. The other day the Chieftain de-
scended upon the Institution for the Blind,
Deaf and Dumb, talked about life saving
and the wisdom of teaching the young
to swim, and dragged in his pet sub-
ject—the proposed Presbyterian College for
the baby ’Varsity. Principal Harper, of
Sydney, came north to explain how col-
leges should be served up, and Wee Mac-
gregor passed him the hand of welcome and
the word of support.
We haven’t yet decided where the per-
manent University and Government House
are to be, although proposals come thick and
fast, and the Premier turns the open ear to
each. The latest idea is to plant the ’Var-
sity at Yeronga, pack up the Government
House gee-gaws, shift them to Bowen
Bridge, and . allow the Technical College to
spread its growing limbs in the vacated
University buildings, which used to be Gov-
ernment House. Grant, Minister of Educa-
tion, is said to favor Yeronga for the ’Var-
sity, but whether his views will count is
another matter.
Died on Wednesday night, J. G. Ander-
son, 1.5.0., for many years Under-Secretary
for Education, who was as unostentatious
as he was kind, and as kind as he was just.
His family numbers three, the eldest of
whom is the wife of Canon Ashton, of St.
Andrew’s, South Brisbane. Incidentally
Canon Ashton, with wife and five sturdy
little Australians, will leave shortly for St.
Kilda(Vic.), where he has been appointed to
the living, and a bit over. Dr. Arthur
Anderson, who practises in Goondiwindi,
and Miss Edith Anderson, an artist of merit,
who studied for some years in London and
Paris, complete the family circle.
Mrs. John Hicks hostessed two gatherings
during the week —the first, a dance for young
people in honor of the coming marriage of
Mr. Jack Petrie (a scion of the Queens-
land Petries) and Miss Dorothy Ryder; the
second, an afternoon tea, to enable Mrs.
Ball (of Canada) to swap “Howdy” with
local Sassiety dames. The hostess, caught
in the prevailing epidemic of decorations,
passed the damper round amongst scarlet
poppies and wheat.
Mrs. Hutton was another of the week’s
hostesses. She collected nearly 100 young
men and maidens, turned her lovely old
house upside down, and set them dancing
merrily on the floors, and eating heartily in
a marquee. And if young men and maidens
cannot enjoy themselves in those conditions
they must have changed since our time, my
dear. Daughter Lynnie wore a striking
frock of pale grey, over coral pink.
A shock ran through the town on Thurs-
day, when the news of the death of Mrs. Carl
Palmer, the girl wife of the eldest son of
the late Lieut.-Gov. Arthur Palmer, and
eldest daughter of Dr. Lightoller, became
known. She had been married just a year
and, besides husband and friends, leaves a
tiny little daughter a week old. I don’t
know who controls these things, but I’ve got
some strong views about the management.
The Gay Gordons include Mr. Frank
Brookes and Mr. Cecil Houghton, both old
Brisbane boys. Frank Brookes was married
on Monday, at All Saints’, to the charming
little lady with whom he warbles the lovey-
dovey duet. Their romance is one which
might almost have been put down to legerde-
main, for, within eight days of their first
meeting, the two were made one.
Mrs. Frost and her musical offspring
attended to the musicianly soul and the
creature comforts of several of our local
talent recently in honor of our Mabel Wool-
cock, a contralto with a voice to be proud of.
It has had years of Melbourne Conserva-
toire polish, and has taken it like the very-
best Australian timbre. Henry Saint George,
of Trinity College, and Percy Brier, our
home-grown Fellow of the same institution,
played their very own comoositions in their
very own way, and assisted the merry little
hostess in making the party a huge success.
The catmittee of one hospital had its fur
rubbed backways recently as the result of a
lady doctor’s objection to a meal-time regu-
lation. This regulation sets out that the
resident’s tucker shall be taken with the
nursing staff; but the newcomer was alleged
to have told a friend that she was “not going
to feed with nurses,” and naturally it wasn’t
long before the alleged remark had worked
round to the ears of a horrified catmittee
and nursing staff. The ensuing excitement
was only quelled by the hon. medical staff
bringing masculine hard sense to play and
hinting at strike and other rude methods
copied in later years by the coalhumpers'
union. All is peace again, but I can’t say
anything about goodwill.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Brisbane’s Mayoress (Mrs. Diddams)
after her experience of Hospital Saturday"
congratulated Brisbaneites cordially on their
generosity. An analysis of the contents of
the collection boxes reveals the interesting
fact that nearly 20,000 coppers were given
on that eventful day. Generosity? Well
ask of a pub-keeper what he’d think of a har-
vest of copper.
Banan'aland friendly societies are quiver-
ing just now in a fever and ague of appre-
hension. The other day a northern Oddfel-
lows’ lodge discovered a shortage of £2OOO in
its accounts—a deficiency which resulted in
an arrest. A few days later another big
branch of the same society found that it was
about £lO,OOO to the bad, owing apparently
to somebody else’s defalcations. And these
are not the only shortages in the friendly
society atmosphere just now. The epidemic
has arrived. A borrowing boom always
brings it.
The North Coast Railway, which is about
to be started, will have the longest bridge in
Banana land. It will cross the Burdekin
River, and will have 20 spans of 120 ft. each.
Bananaland wants population so badly
that it reckons it had better not take the
risk any longer of grilling its guests in the
old wooden gaol at St. Helena. So a new
hotel is to go up, with all modern comforts.
Among those at the outing down the Bay,
given to the Bocal Authorities’ Conference
delegates by Queensland Home Secretary
Appel the other day, was C. H. Buzacott,
who years ago piloted through the Banana-
land Assembly the State’s first Local Gov-
ernment Bill.
Died at Ipswich on August 24, aged 73.
D. T. Keogh, who had represented Rosewood
in the Bananaland Assembly since 1896, ex-
cept for one small break. The gold fever
brought “Dinny” to Victoria in 1854, and
five years later he passed to Bananaland.
After a couple of years of station life, he
went into business in Ipswich, and had lived
there ever since. He never rose above medi-
ocrity in politics, but his brogue added to
the gaiety of the Assembly.


nimmwn I. iti i^ini mm*m w;
OH
MiMfIMHI
1111 fils
i ■ 99 mmmamm
:
: . :;
lik 'V b P:i u I
m^mim
- s 'x kk:k--'Sf &4 H {& Fii $
:
\V.;C
l#jfrY S V?U ' ■
Va
HMII
1 1 V ~
•
fii, .\
’ • ; -
>/,
n
: "H
m
mmm
4ife-
m£%K
m
m
&
.
t>
hbsii
j
' 5^44
|*|
/
:V>*
n
?■ ■
■
I
i
I
>:
m
Sparku^
Sparkling
.
m .
:
Hh 01
§**
■
■
i
/
■
■
.
I ■
'-:J
mmm
■
H
MmAm
mm
AsR
for
Cascade
Ale.
r AsK
for
Cascade
Ale.
THE special care exercised in the selection of the malt and hops,
the scientific skill and expert knowledge brought to their work by
the Brewer and his staff, the remarkable system of cleanliness
that rules every operation from the Mash Tun stage until the clear and
sparkling ale, which is so rapidly winning fame in ail parts of the
Commonwealth, reaches the bottling stage-all these things give to
Cascade Ale that distinctive flavor, unequalled purity and rare quality that
makes it the choice of men who exercise special care in the choice of
beverages.
Ask for Cascade Ale—the premier Beer of the Commonwealth.


A CIGAR is the BEST
SMOKE OF ALL!
But why can’t you get a
Good Cigar in the Country?
h
OU^Y\,
ALL over Australasia the only places you can
buy a really high-class Cigar is in the big
cities. In the country districts a good Cigar
cannot be had; because it’s only at the pubs that
you can buy Cigars at all in the out-back districts.
The publican knows that selling liquor pays him
better. He reckons that his customers only call
for a Cigar when they-ve got a few drinks in and
want to dodge getting “fu’ the noo.” Any old
Cigar does for that.
So he buys a few hundred at a time from
some “back-yarder”—real “Flor de Cabbage”
with big gold pictures all over the box and
mighty pretty bands round them—made from the
waste leaf and the cheapest growths, but called
by some high-faintin' name. (The making of these
Cigars is another story—l’ll tell you about it
another time.)
h
The s torekeeper or tobac-
conist in country towns does
not sell good Cigars either.
If he does, he has to add to
the selling price of the Cigar,
the maker’s profit, the profit
of the warehouseman he
buys from, the profit of the
traveller who calls and sells
them to him, and his own
profit.
So that a good Cigar
that sells in the city at 6d.
he’d have to charge 9d. for,
and not grow fat on it then,
because the number he would
sell would be small; and
good Cigars have to be kept
in a uniform temperature,
free from exposure to the
air, or else they’ll go off.
Those are just some of
the reasons why you can’t
get a good Cigar in the
country parts of Australia,
and also why so very few
Cigars are at present smoked
in the country.
Buy a 100-box of my
“ DIADEMAS,” smoke 5 or
6 of them, and, if they're
not as good as any 6d.
Cigar you’ve ever smoked,
you needn’t pay a penny.
That’s the way I’m in-
troducing my Cigars into
Australia. I know Cigar-
making from A to Z. I know
these DIADEMAS Cigars of
mine are just the coolest,
smoothest and most luxu-
rious smoke any man could wish for. Cigar-
smokers of a lifetime say so; and the more you
know about a good Cigar the better you'll like
them.
My DIADEMAS are made from the very
finest, mild, rich, mellow, Java leaf, the filling or
inside heart of the Cigar being all straight long
Brazilian. The Cigars are hand made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before it
goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed to
burn free and draw easily. The Cigar is 4 inches
long, and the picture at the. side is a copy of it,
exact in size and shape.
Now, this DIADEMAS Cigar is as good as
any 6d Cigar, sold in the cities by high-class
tobacconists, as I sell it direct to the customer —
saving the cost of wholesalers’, salesmen’s, and
retailers’ profit. I only charge’ you 22/6 the box
of too DIADEMAS, postage paid right to your
address.
Send 22 16 to-day, and get the box of xoo
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade. Please add exchange to country and
interstate cheques.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
The'Standavd Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1686.
sags
CURBS
Austval'an Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist ioritshistory—the book is free—or write
S' GREEN. 210. Lambeth Koaci, London, Eng.
ĥ
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
CuriM the same
diseases "without
inconvenience
In
48 hours.
Each Capsule bear* the name W“
m
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
I
lihlili
hi
v\V
m
I'r
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is
Pa_
>3.
MODERN 1
LIGHTING
Brandt’s Patent Automatic
Improved acetylene genera-
tors are unquestionably the
peer of acetylene lighting sys-
tems. Installed in hundreds
of country homes, and grow
in appreciation day by day.
The light is soft and eye-rest-
ing, is as brilliant as gas or
electricity, but much cheaper.
Characteristics: Simplicity,
Durability and Economy.
Literature on request.
BRANDT Bros., Ltd.,
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne
h
.—■ Look manly and
smart by growing an attrac-
tive Moustache. ‘MOUSTV
the True Moustache Grower,
speedily forces one at any
age like magic. Quite harmless to use.
Boys become men. ‘ Mousta ’ is used
all over the world and is strongly
recommended by the Medical Pro-
fession. Entire success or money willingly
returned. ‘Mousta’ produces astonishingly
quick results and is the talk of London.
Full Treatment, sufficient to promote Good
Growth, 5/- (postage 6d. extra), sent at once
in plain wrapper on receipt of International
Money Order, 5/6. Send now to—
F. DIXON & CO., 42, Junction Road,
London, N., England.
ĥ
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everythin
Australian.
6d
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s Thk Lone Hand. 1- a
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
TO-DAY
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
4£LUenburgs Foods
Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN S’ HANBURYS Ltd., Jaonion, eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
rT.
f~ * K 'i /
<®J7 ' ft
A
fiy
&
(a)
4.1
i
C"'*' *
Bfl
/O
zz
I
~3!
rtV
ry y,
V/M.
The Power of the Great Moqul
Though the power of the Great Mogul was tremendous, :7 furnished a striking
example of misplaced energy—misplaced by reason of it’s being direcled where it did
the least amount of good.
The “1.H.C.” ‘Mogul” Gasolene Tractor has, like its namesake, enormous power,
but unlike him its* power is developed just where the greatest possible benefits accrue
from its energies, i.e., the Draw-bar.
That’s one great reason for the phenomenal and universal success of the “1.H.C.”
Tractor—it wastes less hauling energy than any other internal combustion engine in
the wide world.
No need to take our word for the above, because the “1.H.C.” has proved it
again and again in open competition against the world’s next best engines.
In the last competition at Winnipeg, Canada, its competitors were nine in number.
Three of these engines were withdrawn from Draw-bar test, and the remaining
six developed at the Draw-bar an average of 59 5% of their horse-power as against
75% developed by the “1.H.C.”
Not content with a 15% victory in the matter of Draw-bar power development
the “1.H.C.” in the Fuel test at the same competition consumed 33% less fuel per
acre ploughed than the average amount consumed by its seven competitors.
As compared with other engines, buying an “1.11. C.” Tractor is therefore on a
par with buying several draught horses, that not only haul more than any others,
but cost far less to feed.
Of all the internal combustion Tractors now in use in Australia, 4 out of 5 arc
“lll.C.s”—very significant.
Literature of a nature both interesting and profitable to engine buyers free on
application to
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart, General Agent for Southern Tasmw.Sl*,
[328) GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General' Agents for Western Australia.


The Chalmers has been
recommended to me.
h
Day after day, both in Sydney and Melbourne, intending purchasers come to our sho\\ roo
sec the Chalmers —men from the North of Queensland, men from 1 asma ,
We take this condition to mean that the Chalmers ear has not only now made ago l +Viot
Australia.
i this condition to mean that the Chalmers car nas noi, ”“Yj»li'"i, I “‘huilding cars that
tion in our country, but also that the Chalmers Company has succee
appeal to the careful buyers here. or . ~ rinlmers cars; out of
Out of the 46 cars we have sold since Christmas, 35 °f we ft owne( i cars Again,
experienced motorists— men who had previously owned cars.
these 35 purchasers, 12 were
there were four repeat orders from Chalmers owners. and over 20 miles
From Sydney to Narromine, 300 miles, at an average of 33 miles per hour, and over 2U nmes
to the gallon of fuel. From Warialda to Newcastle, 310 miles, _ in daylighC Seven tnous
miles in 10 weeks, and the front tyres still good.
buic ... Seven
'These records speak for themselves.
20-30 H.P. Touring Car
Both
Guaran-
teed
Two
Yeara.
35-40 H.P. Torpedo
equipped-with Five Lamps,
Generator, 880 x 120
Tyres,
£490
with full equipment
and 920 x 120
tyres,
£790
GET ONE.
ART CATALOGUES ARE FREE.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
Agent for Chalmers and Thomas Cars and Empire Runabouts,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
oo 9 9
6 6
tJSi||EZ
1 m
* \
sss
wm
You will find far greater pleasure in spending your spare hours
at home if you have a “Bijou” table in the dining-room.
This table is specially designed for home use —it contains all the
merits of our standard tables, with the advantage of being readily
convertible into a dining-table by means of a simple adjustment ot
leaves.
It is fitted with slate bed, fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard cloth, beautifully made and nicely finished.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ĥ
ħ
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St. T Brisbane. Baker Buildings, Featherstone
St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth. [4
h
the World’s Standard
| Valveless Engine.
Tfi THF FAPMFP the ferro engine has
proven itiself an inestimable
boon by relieving him of the hard work about the
farm, such as pumping water, chaff and ensilage
cutting, bagging and hoisting, corn grinding, husk-
ing and shelling, sawing wood, separating cream,
driving winnowers or any machine for which
moderate power is required. Also on account of the
increased profit made by their use, which in many
cases has more than paid for the entire outfit before
the f.rst season is over.
Drop a postcard to the nearest agent, giving par-
ticulars of machine or plant for which you require
power, and he will advise you of the most suitable
engine for the purpose. YOU WILL REMEMBER
THEIR HONEST SERVICE LONG AFTER YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN THE SMALL COST.
Made iiKthe following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use L
3,4, l/ 2 , V/ 2 , 8,11,12,15,17, 25 B.H.P.
FERRO AGES.TS i
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acms Motor & Eng. Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. d. Langley, Torrens St. E., A aELAiUE.
ĥ
Perth Motor House, Hay St, PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
M T. Mooro. APIA. SAMOA.
rThe
L* Great
\ Defender.
Bronchitis
Cure.
n
{% V c,
u
rv
tiE/mnts
5 *
o 11-i,'
©
AN
COL 05
ASTtlflA
SOP
o^s
THROATS
IBCS
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid
healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the chesSt,
experience delightful and rapid relief, and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure.
It is most comforting in allaying Irritation in the Throat and giving
Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to
become chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is not
known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been
properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without
it, as taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
ħ
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin—thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on pa-isingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessad. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price l/ 31 ,
nost free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
most
viciou s
h
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
dog. " Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for .young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ill
■1
WI
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the n ia^e^-
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
.opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/-.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
ĥ
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
noveli ies obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to
knife for
Price,
where, oi
shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
general us-, also a superior rabbiter's knife,
with full directions, 2/-; post free any.
r same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Address-
Branches
-30 X 3, HAYMARKET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write for Price. Lists, free upon application-
-111 KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE SKIN.
We are'in for a HOT SUMMER—this means that Ladies will
preserve that beautifully velvet skin which is one of their chiel
pears “like snow before the sun” if ladies will only prepare tl
ICILMA FLUOR
find it increasingly difficult to
charms. The difficulty disap-
eir skin by consistently using
CREAM,
the world-famed face cream without grease, which brings the beauty that lasts. A little
rubbed on the skin daily, especially before going out, prevents the ravages of the Australian
Climate, leaves no trace on the skin, and never grows hair.
2
per pot, or
Sample tube
3d. stamps.
ALL CHEMISTS, or
ICILMA DEPOT, .39 yorkltreet, SYDNEY.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
i*rice, 21s.


Amusements.
IYRIC AND COLONIAL, THEATRES,
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY;: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afiernoon Sessions.
Ladies' Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to he seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres v ,th others which charge twice our prices of
Admissir ~
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
■ y ERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL,
■ Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager,
i nis Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo plaj'concerns throughout Australasia. In fact
we supply more shows with pictures than any othei
three (:t) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but, we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS-EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
V HALL, Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
■ Direction : Waltkr Monk.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY,
SEPTEMBER 4,5, 8, 9.
CLEMENT L. WRAGGE,
Astronomer, Author and Lecturer,
presenting a series of
_ POPULAR SCIENTIFIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
Prices 35., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
|_IER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ * Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLTAMSON, Ltd.
THE MELBA GRAND OPERA SEASON.
SATURDAY EVENING, SEPT. 2, “LA TRAVIATA.’’
MONDAY EVENING (4th) a
WEDNESDAY MATINEE (6th) 1“ FAUST.”
FRIDAY EVENING J
TUESDAY" EVENING (6th), “ SANSONE and DALILA.”
WEDNESDAY EVENING (6th), “LA TRAVIATA.”
THURSDAY EVENING (7th), “SANSONE and DALILA.”
Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE R O Y AL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE MERRY WIDOW.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 2,
The Brilliantly Successful MUSICAL PLAY,
A WAL f Z DRli A M.
Specially Attractive Cast from
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Box Plan ar Paling’s. Prices as usual.
c
RITERION THEATRE,
Lessee: FRANK MUSGIIOVE.
SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
The Greatest English-speaking Actress on the si age to-day
ETHEL IRVING
AND HER ENTIRE LONDON COMPANY,
Direct from St. James’s Theatre,
in A. E. W. Mason's Compelling- Play,
THE WITNESS FOR THE DEFENCE.
Box Plan ELVY’S.
A
DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management. Ghough Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
A GREAT DRAMATIC SENSATION!
The Latest and Most Phenomenal Dramatic Craze,
NICK CARTER, DETECTIVE.
A Story of Detective Life, by Arthur Shirley and Ben
Landeck.
Box Plan at FJvy's and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES —35., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THE MAN FROM; OUTBACK
IS NOW CAMPED AT
THE PALACE THEATRE.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
tAfILUAM ANDERSON’S PANTOMIME,
THE OLD WOMAN WHO
LIVED IN A SHOE.
AT THE PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
MATINEES ONLY—WEDNESDAY and
SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
The Old Woman Visits Her Suburban Friends during the
Week. POPULAR PRlCES—Children Half-Price.
George Coates, Representative.
National amphitheatre, Sydney.
Proprietors—Brennan's Ampitheatres. Limited.
BRENNAN'S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
JORDAN & HARVEY, “ Two Sons of Israel.”
JULES GARRISON and his TWO ROMAN MAIDS.
EVA MUDGE, Marvellous Lightning Changes.
VERNON & MACK. THE RACOOHS.
OUR GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
POPULAR PRICES.
New princess theatre.
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICT LILES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
The alh a m bra theatre,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction E. J. KILPATRICK.
THE HOME OE EXCLUSIVE
PTOTURES CONTINUOUS
X IvX UXVXJO. io a.m. to 10.3 p.m.
SOCIAL RECEPTIONS DAILY by
PAT O’CONNOR, THE IRISH GIANT.
MB
. EVERY
LYCEUM
EVENING AT 6.
Matinees-Wednesdays Saturdays and Houdays at 230.
Cpencer'SlHeatrejcope <s
J PICTURES
-u. rfRE SUPERIOR TO PLL OTHERS. -3
Popular Prices —Puan at Paling a .
Wl RTHS ©JJYMPIA..
T * EVERY EVENING AT 8
Mati nets -Wednesdays . Satu boats and Holidays at 2.30.
C PENCERSTifEATRycOPE (°.
J PICTURES
ARE SUPERIOR EO AH, OT/IERS.
Popular Prices Pi an ah iiaiiai
HALL,
MELBOURNE.
■J-OWN
ANTONIA DOLORES
THREE FINAL RECITALS—
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 4.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
|-J EK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
IN
HAMLET.
Prices ns Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Romantic Russian Naval Drama,
THE ERENCH SPY.
WALTER BAKER as CAPTAIN VIVIAN SOMERS.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-35.. 2s. and Is.
1“ HEATUE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION.
Messrs. CLARKE and MEYNELL’S NEW
OPERA CO. in
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
W/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THK BE , T
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing- Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen s,
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGH lat 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
JHE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
ICE CAM I Y AL.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY).
ANTARCTIC SNOW SCENE.
FINEST STGHT OF THE SEASON.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2/-
RESERVED CHAIRS, 2/- EXTRA.
Box Plan at Glen’s, and at Glaciarium.
g Y D N E Y GLACIARIUM
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
Admission—2/- ; Children : Morning & Afternoon only, 1/-
Children : Saturday Morning only, 6d.
SKATE HIRE—SIXPENCE.
Private Instruction may he Booked for Hours during
and between the Sessions.
'Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATIN FES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
LAMBERTI, Impersonator of Great Masters of Music.
MISS LOUIE TRACY, The Dapper Dandy Boy.
CLARKE AND MOSTOL, Dancers Extraordinary.
ALF HOLT. SYDNEY BACH. CARLTON MAX.
MARGUERITE ISMAY AND GIRLS
THE BRIGHT SISTERS. VINCENT & SINCLAIR
THE TWO McCOLLS. IRVING SAYLES.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES— 3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
CLARK & HAMILTON, Musical Comedy Artists.
ALBERT REES, Drawing-room Entertainer.
SPISSELL BROS. & MACK, Eccentrics & Pantomimists.
DALY & O’BRIEN, Tanglefoot Dancers.
McLALLEN & CARSON, Roller Skaters.
FRANCIS & ALFRED, Comedy Jugglers.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
The EDISON
AMBEROL RECORD
—is made to increase the entertaining ability of the
Edison Phonograph—made to give Edison Phono-
graph owners longer, better, more complete and more
carefully executed songs and instrumental music.
Did you ever time a song-hit with its choruses
and its encores, an overture, or a Grand Opera aria?
Do so, and you will realise the necessity of getting
an Edison Phonograph with its Amberol Records, if
you want to have in your home those things you
have enjoyed most at concerts, musical comedies, and
the opera.
There is an Edison Phonograph at a price to suit
everybody’s means, from the Gem at £2 12s. 6d.,
to the Amberola at £45, sold at the same prices
everywhere in Australia. Get complete lists from
your dealer or from us.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
P RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
FIRST PRODUCTION IN MELBOURNE o t
CONAN DOYLE'S THRILLING STORY,
THE SPECKLKD BAND.
Priops Us'ml.
Plan at Allan’s.
GLACIARIUI
|yg EEBOURNE
ICE SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING
ADMISSION—AFTERNOONS. 2/-; CHILDREN, 1/.
EVENINGS, I/-.
It EL CL
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send ns your name and address and we will forward you 1? pac'-ets, each
containing oof our colored and high art Poet Cards to sell for us at d.
per pacUet. When you have sold the cards, return us our > s., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Qent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
ħ
F
R
E
E
*"y, othor Firm, We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district, uur post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
BOND ST., SYDNEY.
The Moustacheless Young Man
is under a heavy handicap because of his youthful appearance.
CAPIEEARINE
will add more than five years to his looks by producing quickly a handsome
moustache that will remain with him permanently. A little nibbed on each
evening is all that is required. Invisible in use and certain in results.
PRICE 10/6 A JAR. Posted Free in plain wrapper anywhere.
The C. & A Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache.
Worn at night. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free.
Manes .you look man ly
Before
flfier
w
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
THE TRIALS OF TRAVEL.
Do not add to the trials of travel and of everyday life by carrying
a fountain pen that leaks—that cannot be refilled without * bulb
filler. Th ere is a safer, better way—to carry an Onoto.
The Onoto is the British made fountain pen that
—Fills itself in a flash* from any ink supply.
—That never leaks and spoils clothes and carpets.
—That gives writing satisfaction, gliding smoothly and
speedily over the paper.
It is sold by all stationers, jewellers, stores, etc. And it is worth many
times the price asked—l2/—.
It is only common sense to discard obsolete pens and ways of writing—
to go to-day to the nearest stationer’s and say —“ An Onoto Pen, please.”
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos. De La Rue
& Co , Ltd., 164 Bunhill Row, London. E.C., or the Australasian Repre-
sentative, Norman Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
\fuidOpwanA
Self-Filling - - DUfft
Safety Fountain
IMPORTANT. —For those who require a larger pen with
a very flexible nib, a special model —the new G —has been
put on the markfet. It is exceptional value for the money.
Try this new G at your stationer *.
Old People's Complaints!
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lum-
bago, Insomnia —these are complaints
most prevalent among old people.
Jerdan’s
“Home” Battery
offers relief and cure for these complaints.
It is easily handled —no acids to spill—-
can be regulated for a child, and is sold
under a full guarantee of perfect working
order.
Send for the Battery—if you are not
thoroughly satisfied we refund your
money.
Price
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION.
351-
Post Free.
h
JERDAN’S,
“MY OPTICIAN'S,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 George Street Sydney.
z
Say! “Nimrod’s” Find
This is pipe-joy—the real thing:! No bite—no sting-
nothing but a series of glad puffs ! The aroma is a
revelation ! It’s IT !
Fine (Wafer) and Medium Cut.
Jib., 2/-; posted, 2/3 Jib., 3/9; posted, 4/3
11b., 7/6; posted, 8/3 3 Ib., 21/-; posted, 22/3
KISMET CIGARETTES, Virginian and Turkish.
VIRGINIAN.
10 in a bcx, 9d.; posted, 10d.
25 in a box, 1/9; posted, 1/11
50 in a box, 3/6; posted, 3/10
100 in a box, 6/6 ; posted, 7/-
TURKISH.
10 In a box, 1/-; posted, 1/1
25 in a box, 2/6 ; posted, 2/8
50 in a box, 5/-; posted, 5/4
100 in a box, 9/-; posted, 9/6
ANDREW McGEE,
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.


I 1
■3^ll-003^
AunsajD
* 3
|(UIV.LSfI3|
/
n’&'sK
i **
The World’s Daily Delicacy
From 1837 to 1911—■
Birds
Custard
Crowns every meal with enjoyment.
Children revel in it; you do
right to indulge their liking for
this creamy wholesome dainty,
with its rich stoieof nutriment.
W Insist on BIRD’S Custard.
No substitute can be so pure or
so wholesome.
\ Vs
V.
&
KM
y.
Is that
girl coining
yet with
my
Horn
cocoa?
There is
no better
Pick-
me-up.
Ask your grocer
for a gratis Van
Houten Novelty.
■mi
KsWell, of course
Anything worth doing >s
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:al Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. G. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO
LE3STD
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold end C.P. (Coihhihedl, *s* th“ AuV-
of Government De k ent “ re ?' *'V* C AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
tra.lia.ri States or New Zealand rtl .... ,
Our new Morwe Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
Our new e tieeu conua y without notice or payment of any fine.
up to-0 per cent. Chairman’• Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Dirkctors The Hon. A. W . MeeKS, M.L.C., Cha rma ■ tor M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winoheombe, M.L.C.;
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns M. L C Kichard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. ma.niager a APPERLY, Secretaiy.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. n. y
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and "
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
%
MAP-' 4 *
and Chemists
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
natural
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING i
m
AaB
AiUwool unshrlnli-
able Soc Ks. StocKings
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as woo! —not
a mixture of wool and cotton—but all wool.
If the name is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you will know that you have Australasian - wool wear,
and more —that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
Further, the process makes them as soft and com-
fortable as silk. And are made in Eng'and.
Stockings. Socks, and Underwear for Men. Ladies, and Children,
rr~ —in ill prices. Of Men's Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent to — <?
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
<l>
mm
ri
Bn waxv, v=fersr..T-'Tr*^ s *?*
•c*
Prizes Value
IN THE
8-HOUR
ART UNION
ana SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1911.
Ist Prize, value £650- 2nd Prize, value £350.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S.W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE a CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To anv person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will he posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades-Hall, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/I£, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
’hlcrcrff 1 *
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu ally
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Michelin
Tyres.
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
a.EYE„
CURES
T OTICED the receiit increase in the bulk of
.131 The Lone Hand? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
will rush it. But it enables the proprietors to
give more reading matter for the same price—
Sixpence.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you arc. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring- strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
ip
fV
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to tlie natural car-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address .'..'..
NOTE.—Send bv Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank ‘Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mull register it.


R!
£4 4s.
\k/.
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, toplever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FRGG,
h
“WINCHESTER," Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Kim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, steel heel plate, *O-. ,
weight 211 b. 18s. (ad.
We can supply the 1902 Model Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
at 20s. Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W.; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps
'1
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gange top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels Greener cross bolt, both choice, rebounding locks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from 7
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol grip, walnut stock.
f TYEVT.T VH,R¥,n
£ to Guaranteed
£6 12s . 6d
Send for Our
ILLUSTRATED
SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO
LISTS, FREE.
ĥ
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over all
38Ain., weight 3fjlb., handles short, long
or long rifle cartridges, m
Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W. ; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
head Depot, HA YMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford St.,
Sydney; Church St., Parramatta ; 113 King St., Newtown. 4
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not set/ Fat Stock,
but on/y Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
Extraordinary Snccess
OF THE
ħ
3± * P- Single Cylinder
2 MOTOR
BICYCLE
IN THE
LONDON TO EDINBURGH & BACK RIDE.
104 STARTED.—ONLY ONE 8.5.A.-rTHAT AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL.
In this ride only 32 out of 104 starters completed the double journey.
BIRMINGHAM TO LAND’S END & BACK RIDE.
37 ENTRIES.—ONLY TWO U.S.A.’s—BOTH AWARDED GOLD MEDALS.
Also FIRST and FASTEST TIME in both “Private Owners” and “Open”
Events in the M.C.U. of Ireland Hill Climb on June 10th.
The B.S.A. Motor Bicycle has proved a winner in practically every competition entered.
WRITE NOW FOR CATALOGUE, TO
D. Y. RENNIE, 5, Stock Exchange Buildings, MELBOURNE.
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front=rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The Making of a Man
A Hint to the Poorly Paid.
Successful, valuable work, whether physical or mental, depends upon your
thinker —your power to concentrate, and to act.
A man succeeds in measusg as he is fitted for his work.
Keen, active brain, and steady, reliable nerves to carry out its orders,
depend upon the kind of food you eat.
Literally millions of successful workers in all parts of the world have found
by trial that
Grape =Nuts
Is the perfect food that makes and keeps then® sturdy, and able to command
money, fame and power.
“There’s a Reason.”
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new" 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3:
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d,
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature asit exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. .Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. Tiie Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want l*ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my pricr .vith others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL, IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS A DVT.
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere lor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Kins,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter. Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s WbRKS, Bd, 2s. How to Eead Huai'S
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget S»n»
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. »•
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 Mew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary; 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and '
guineas). BooTMAKiNd and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloti.
bound, 10s 6d posted! The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine.
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


LITTLE BOY SUFFERED NINE MONTHS
WITH PNEUMONIA AND BRONCHITIS.
WAS REDUCED TO A SKELETON—HIS LIFE WAS DESPAIRED OF
A REMARKABLE CURE—THE RESULT SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
“I am writing to tell you of the good Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery has done my
little baby boy,” writes Mrs. F. de Grosse, 61
O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W. “He
was very toad with Pneumonia and Bron-
chitis for nine months. He was so bad
that he was ordered to the hospital, in-
deed he was in two different hospitals. His
little throat was quite black on both sides
with the constant turning of his head,
which bruised the glands of the throat. At
other times he used to lie as if dead all
day. The doctors did all they could for
him, tout they sent him home from the hos-
pital, not expecting him to live, and really
I thought that would be the last of him, he
was like a little skeleton.
“I was strongly recommended to try Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, tout I thought, as
he was so far gone, there was little hope
for him. Anyway, my friend brought a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, and
he was just able to sip a dose of it. After
a few doses he seemed to get brighter, so
I felt this was going to cure him, and he
got all right in no time. I can’t be thank-
ful enough to Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery, for it saved his life. No one would
believe the difference it made in such a short
time. He is quite cured, and has grown a
fine, fat child. He is only two years and
five months old, but anyone would take
him for five years old.”
■ •' B i
B
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds is an unequalled preparation for the
immediate relief of all diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including Influenza,
Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult Respiration,
and pains in the chest. When used according to directions, is a sure preventive of I neu-
monia and Consumption. Every bottle guaranteed. Prices 1/6 and 3/-.
D? Sheldons
New Discovery
f§2
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXriIBITION, 1910
G. & G. 3002
When Buying see HORROCK.SES name on
Face-plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E. ,
The Buccaneers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE hansoms slur through the London
mud, and the Bank of England Jeers
Like a fat old thief where their hoof-
beats thud —all hail to the Buccan-
neers!
A thunder of waves goes swirling aft, and
the punkah swings at noon ;
For a man shall live by his fighting-craft—
not feed from a nurse’s spoon!
And the world cries out for the fighting-men,
for the pirates stout and lean;
Lo, the weaklings toil with a clerkly pen,
dumb cogs in the great machine!
But the pirates sail for the distant lands,
and the liner swings and veers;
Yea, a man shall win with his brains and
hands —all hail to the Buccaneers!
1 heard the chime of the temple-bells, and a
cable came at noon,
And I heard the distant broker’s yells in
London from old Rangoon.
The "wireless” splutters from ship to ship,
with a message of stocks and shares,
And the pirate lignts with a tightened lip in
the battle of bulls and bears !
llis orders flash for a thousand miles, and a
war-shout fierce and strange
Goes forth o’ nights through the star-filled
aisles to the lords of the Stock Ex-
change !
For women may call but men must dare, so
the forthright viking steers ;
And the cable croons in its ocean-lair, "All
hail to the Buccaneers!”
There are code-books thumbed in Mandalay.
and the price of copper and tin
Is conned with care where the punkahs sway
and the grey shark shows his fin.
Slim cables slipping from sea to "sea, long
ships with their, lights aglow ;
And the Morse must chatter with rattling
key when the pirates whisper low !
For wealth means women woman and
wine are part of a man’s desire ;
So the pirate stands to the firing-line with
the earth in his fighting-hire!
The patient drones in the London hive loaf
through the dull brown years,
But they loudly sing who plot and strive —
All hail to the Buccaneers !
The bells may summon to evening prayer,
but there’s death in the priest’s refrain ;
And we bow in desert and city square to the
ancient Gods of Gain!
The clamoring wheels that claw the track
breathe an anthem fierce and new ;
And the pirate’s bags are swift to pack
when the call comes whistling through !
Yea, Solomon's ships from olden Tyre bore
spoils for the kingly feast;
And a man still thrills with the same desire,
and he ravages West and East!
'Tis a thieving world, where a Man must
live no matter who doubts or fears ;
And this is the song that the ages give— All
hail to the Buccaneers!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
Callaghan Scores.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WAY BACK in the early ’6o’s the
squattages of Avoca, Glenorchy
and Caribee joined each other.
Their owners had acquired nearly all the
water-frontages by the process known to
Parliament as pre-emption, and flocks and
herds browsed and waxed fat on their ver-
dure-clad hills and plains.
It was a blistering day in December, when,
after completing a “bang-tail muster,” all-
hands on Avoca station were drafting and
branding. The stockyard was full of bustle
and blasphemy. The dust rose in dense red
clouds from the swirl and rush of the cattle
as they plunged to and fro, now on the
charge, then on the retreat. There the
owner of Avoca, Michael Callaghan, by the
grace of Arthur Hunter Palmer', justice of
the peace for the State of Queensland, was in
his element, whirling a short stick on the
“curl” of bellicose bullocks; there a jaclc-
eroo would fall flop over the cap-rail in an
agitated attempt to escape the horns of an
aggrieved cow; and above all hung that red
panoply of profanity and dust. Patsy Cal-
laghan, a gaudy youth of 20, was in charge
of the branding, and no calf over six months
old escaped being decorated with the MC in-
signia. The bustle, dust and language were
at high pressure when McFarlane, of Glen-
orchy, rode up.
“Good day to ye, Mac,” called out Calla-
ghan, as he balanced himself on the top rail
out of the reach of a bellowing steer:
“I’ve all yer cattle drafted out in the little
yard.”
“Ah’m real obleeged tae ye, Mick,” re-
plied McFarlane. Then as his eyes roved
over to where the branded calves Avere
yarded, his cheery mood changed, and with
that solemnity with which the “unco guid”
comment on the sins of the backslider, he
said:
“Michael Callaghan, hae ye nae respeck
for the law whatever? Dae ye no see yon
bull calf wi’ my earmark on —an’ yer brand?
Mon, Mick, Ah’m wae tae think ye wad
play sick a plisky on a guid neebor.”
“Oh, ’tis that b’y Patsy’s blunderin’ agin.
Here, Patsy, ye rip av the wurrld, for what
did ye brand Mister McFarlane’s calf?
Run out two unbranded heifer calves and
put them in his mob.” Then to the stern-
visaged Scot he said: “We’ll call that
square now, Mac!”
“Oh, aye!” returned McFarlane; “but.
Ah’ll tak’ a wee bit luk amang the calves.
There might be a wheen mair o’ the Glen-
orchy breed that Patsy blundered aboot.”
The investigation furnishing no further
cause for the deliverance of a homily, the
customary tot of rum was negotiated, and
Avhen McFarlane had vanished among the
timber, the branding was completed, and the
calves were let out to their mothers.
The calf with the Glenorchy earmark and
the Avoca brand started sucking a Caribee
cow.
Michael Callaghan gave a yelp of aston-
ishment and exploded.
“The murtherin’ Scotch robber!” he yelled.
“To think the mealy-mouthed rapparee wud
be takin’ me in Avid his psalm-snuffling, an’
him earmarkin’ Jack Paterson’s calf. And
me two good heifers are gone! The curse o
Grummet on him!”
Then to Patsy he roared:
“Take thot calf an’ drive him down to the
Sugarloaf paddock, an’ lave him there. If
Paterson comes along an’ foinds that calf
here wid its mother, it won’t be that Scawtch
thief will get the blame—it’ll be Mick
Callaghan’s brand that’ll show up first. Devil
burn McFarlane, whatever comes and goes.
And thus began the feud between the
houses of Avoca and Glenorchy. Callaghan
and McFarlane impounded one another s
cattle with zeal and regularity from that day
forward, and communications between the
squattages ceased. The innocent cause, the
Caribee calf, strayed from the Sugarloaf pad-
dock on to the Caribee run, and at the next
yearly muster of that station, did some fur-
ther straying—into its meat-cask. Jack
Paterson, like his neighbors, was no re-
spector of brands, but in this one instance at
least he came to his own —unconsciously.
* * * *
Two years later, in deference to the re-
peated demands of the budding democracy of
the settled districts, the squatters’ leases
were broken, and half the runs resumed for
settlement. Then began a feverish scramble
to add to the remaining areas by every
means within the law, or not too far outside
it. “Lamb’s Act,” as it was called, pro-
vided for the selection of agricultural hold-
ings of G4O acres at 20s. per acre, first-class
pastoral holdings of 1280 acres at 10s. per
acre, and of second-class pastoral land 2560
acres at ss. per acre. Most holdings selected
by the squatters, their sisters, their cousins,
their aunts, and their grandmothers and
grandchildren were second-class pastoral— i
the officials who classified the lands being
amenable to reason if the reason bore her
late Majesty’s superscription. As the supply
of land for the moment exceeded the demand
so far as real honest settlement was con-
cerned, the run-holders ha.d a good time of it.
They placed each of their hands in posses-
sion of a block of land, with the reservation
• that the deeds should be transferred to :the
squatter when the land was acquired in fee
simple. Three 640-acre blocks along the
creek in the Avoca Sugarloaf paddock were
surveyed, and on the day they were to be
thrown open, Callaghan, his brother Dermot,
and Patsy started at daylight for the Lands
Office at the adjacent township to select
them. But owing to the thirst of the eldest
Callaghan, who dallied at a roadside pub,
the office was reached just as McFarlane
and two station-hands issued therefrom, and
it was with a wild wealth of profanity that
Callaghan received the information that por-
tions 17v, 18v, and 19v, parish of Blank,
county of Dash, had been selected by
Walter Thornton, Wilson, and Don-
ald McFarlane.
“Thim two swells what tuk up those selec-
tions are dummies,” Callaghan tried to ex-
plain to the Land Agent, but that official
regarded him with a stony stare, and seemed
as disinterested as though Callaghan had
proffered the information that Mars is in-
habited.
“And who the devil is Donald McFarlane,
annyhow?” blustered Callaghan. “The ould
thief’s name is Malcolm, an’ more, be token
he have a selection of four square miles on !
his own run already.”
The tired-looking official eyed his inter-
locutor now with some show of interest, and
replied languidly:
“My good sir, the Government doesn’t keep
a staff of detectives to ascertain who selects
its lands. Now, for instance, on this same
station we have the names of John Styles,
James Rafferty, William”
But Callaghan had gone. The string of
names recited in an official monotone tallied
with those of his own pet dummies.
Next morning, when the two new selectors
on Avoca rode over to examine their new’
holdings, they found that the pegs were not
within two chains of the creek, and the land i
was wrongly described as water-frontage. |
They reported the matter to McFarlane.
The following day the pegs were again in
the creek bank, and when Callaghan went j
over from the hoinestead to investigate he
found a piece of paper tacked to one of them
on wffiich was painfully scrawled:
“Read Deuteronomy xxvii.-17, ye Irish j
gowk.”
Callaghan rode 10 miles out to 1
a piously-inclined shepherd, and read. Then
• he started to lie low.
Within three months the selections were
fenced, and a mob of bullocks depastured
thereon. They were stores from a station
in the West —in those days referred to as the
Never Never. Then Callaghan rose to the
occasion.
Acting on his complaint that McFarlane
was running his cattle on the newly-acquired
selection —presumptive evidence of dummy-
ing—the Crown Lands Ranger paid a sur-
prise visit, but the two new chums showed
receipts for all the stock running on their
holding, and Callaghan realised that McFar-
lane expected trouble, and had arranged for
contingencies.
Then Callaghan became friendly with his
despoilers. Night after night he could be
seen squatted at the hut fire, swapping yarns
with Thornton and Wilson, and, hearing of
this, McFarlane’s vigilance took but short
sleep.
It was great fattening country, that
Sugarloaf paddock, and in six months the
herd was ready for the Ennogera yards.
McFarlane rode over with two of his stock-
men one morning to drove the bullocks down
the range, but all signs of life had vanished
from the selections. The ashes in the fire-
place were cold, and everything pointed to
an abandonment under the Act of 1868.
Mac swore, then pondered, then swore
again. What did it all mean? Had the
cattle broken out and strayed, and had the
men gone after them ? This was not feasible;
the fence was unbroken. Something had
gone wrong—something beyond McFarlane’s
comprehension—and, leaving the stockmen
there, he rode at a hand gallop to the next
township.
At the first pub he drew rein, and pro-
ceeded to the bar to slacken his drouth. As
he poured out his “wee chillick o’ whusky,”
his glance fell on the form of Wilson, huddled
up on the sofa of the bar parlor. Gulping
down his refreshment, Mac made a bound at
the sleeper, and, shaking him much as a bull-
dog Would a terrier, he roared out:
“Whaur’s ma beasties, ye drunken limb o’
Beelzebub?”
While Wilson was struggling up into a
sitting posture with an incoherent “Don’t
mind if I do. ole fellow!” Thornton stag-
gered into the bar. The man from Glenorchy,
(Continued on next page.)


AN HOUR ON THE
OPERATING TABLE
I Right Arm was Distorted and Utterly Useless through Severed and I
Contracted Sinew —Lacerated Wrist Developed Alarming Symptoms— I
Hospital Treatment Only Made Matters Worse.
A WONDERFUL VICTORY FOR ZAM-BUK, AFTER
DOCTOR GAVE UP ALL HOPE
FOR sensational features, the following
story of Mrs. C. Jones, residing at
208 Denison Street, Camperdown,
Sydney, would be hard to equal. She says :
“ One day, when cleaning a window, I went
to push it up, and instead of going round a
couch to do so, I leant over. The consequence
was I overbalanced, and my right hand went
through the window-pane, fearfully lacerating
my wrist and severing one of the sinews,
which flew up the arm.
“ 1 went to the hospital, and for an hour
the doctors had me on the operating table,
searching for the contracted sinew. They
finally located and joined the sinew, and put
eight stitches in the wound.
“ The wound itself obstinately refused to
heal, and proud flesh formed, with terrible
inflammation and irritation. 1 could hardly
keep myself from tearing the wound to pieces.
1 went over to the hospital, and after scraping
the wound the doctor wanted to burn and
cauterise the parts, but it was only making
matters worse.
h
Mrs. Jones, who relates how
Zam-Buk restored the use of
her disabled right arm-
“ Both my hand and my arm were drawn up, and I could not straighten
either. For 10 weeks I was in this condition, and I thought I would never
have the use of my arm again.
“ Reading that Zam-Buk was a sure remedy for poisoned wounds and similar injuries, and
having a free sample pot in the house, I made up my mind to try it.
“ The first few dressings of Zam-Buk soothed and cleansed the wound wonderfully, and by
the time I had finished the sample pot all the proud flesh and Inflammation were drawn outof my
wrist, and the wound had healed up splendidly. The stiff and distorted condition of my hand
and arm still remained, however, but the wonderful results I had so far derived from Zam-Buk
gave me such confidence in its powers that I determined to continue the Zam-Buk treatment, i
saturated some wadding with the balm and applied it to the contracted sinew. One night, on re-
tiring to bed, I propped my arm up by the pillow as usual, and on waking in the morning you can
Imagine my surprise and delight when I found that my hand had assumed its natural position, an 1
EVERY NOME NEEPS ZAM-BUK
ĥ
SOOTHES AND HEALS .
I could move and bend and us;
it as I used to. I could hardly
realise my good fortune, and
the wonderful powers of
Zam=Buk came as a great
revelation to me.”
In all cases of burns, cuts and
scalds, the wound should be
promptly dressed with Zam-
Buk, which allays all inflamma-
tion and prevents festering:.
Is.6d. and 3s. 6d., all chemists
and stores.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES
GENERAL MANAGER: W. J. MORGAN.
COLONIAL THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A BIG CONCERN WITH A BIG REPUTATION.
Biggest Buyers of Photo Plays in the World.
ADVERTISE YOU SHOW INTERNATIONAL PICTURES, AND
WATCH YOUR RECEIPTS GO UP.
“The Cat’s Out of the Bag at Last.” “ The Secret of our Success is Made Known.”
Our opposition have been wondering and pondering how we have succeeded in getting
so many customers in such a short space of time. As a few people now know the secret,
we herewith make it public.
Simply because:
WE HAVE NO PHOTO PLAYS OF OUR OWN PRODUCTION TO TRY TO PUSH
AHEAD OF MORE MERITORIOUS ATTRACTIONS.
WE GIVE MERIT WHERE MERIT IS DUE.
Furthermore, we play no favorites. Our foreign representatives have absolute instruc-
tions to buy the best, irrespective of what maker’s name is attached to the title. Our
■catalogues, and lists include every known manufacturing and producing Photo Play
'Company in the World. So you see, Mr Showman, how advantageous it is to deal with
■our Company. Last week we enumerated several
EXCLUSIVE STAR PHOTO PLAY PRODUCTIONS.
Each one has proven itself a great Money-getter, and, furthermore, has given absolute
satisfaction to the public, and lived up to the reputations they brought with them from
America and England.
COMING. COMING. A GREAT, SPECIAL EXCLUSIVE ATTRACTION.
“DOCTOR COOK AND THE TRUTH ABOUT THE POLE.”
Book your dates now. This production is going to be a record-breaker. Again we
remind you of our other great exclusive Pictures, now drawing enormous crowds wher-
ever they are being shown.
“THE TEMPTATIONS OF A GREAT CITY.” ALSO, “THE PRICE OF BEAUTY,”
At present playing to Enormous Business at the Lyric Theatre.
AND LAST, BUT NOT LEAST, THE GREATEST WILD-WEST PICTURE EVER
KNOWN,
“INDIAN AND COWBOY FRONTIER CELEBRATIONS.”
WE WANT TO ADVISE YOU THAT THE BIGGEST BLOOMER EVER MADE BY A
SHOWMAN WAS WHEN A MAN THOUGHT THAT BECAUSE HE HAD GREAT
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS HE HAD THE WHOLE THING. You might just as well say
that because you had the best piano in the world you were the greatest living pianist.
Good pictures without proper projection are useless. Do you watch your own show.'
Are your Pictures projected better than your opposition? If not, look into the matter.
We are the Sole Agents for the greatest Picture Projecting Machine in the World.
THE POWERS PICTURE MACHINE.
Guaranteed by the Manufacturers, part and parcel, for one year, and with the following
guarantee from us. Buy one. Try it for one month, and if it does not give you entire
satisfaction, return it, and we will give you your money back.
Do you see anyone else advertising this Offer?
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS, OR CALL AND SEE
THE POWERS PICTURE MACHINE,
The Colonials, Lyric and Melba Theatres, running twelve hours daily, Use Nothing but
the Powers Machine.
BRANCHES—
SUTTON’S BUILDING. MELBOURNE. FOWLD’S BUILDINGS, WELLINGTON.
COURIER BUILDINGS, BRISBANE. DEWAR HOUSE, 11 HAYMARKET, LONDON
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co.
Capital £200,000. Ltd.
with a glare of battle in his eye, strode up
to the new arrival, and yelled the query
fiercely at hun.
Thornton steadied himself against the bar
with both hands, and, with a look of com-
passion at the figure that was dancing, ges-
ticulating and frothing around him from
every available space in the bar-room, ven-
ded to ask what the trouble was about.
“Ma cattle, dom ye! Thae beasties I pit
in vair keepin’ on Callaghan’s run. Whar’s
ma beasties?”
Thornton tried to look grave, and only
succeeded in looking absolutely drunk. But
he managed to inquire impressively:
“Are you alluding to that mob of bullocks
we were fattening on our selection, and for
which we hold receipts?”
‘.‘Aye, just them. What’s came o’ them?
Deil fry ye for an impudent thief —will ye
no answer?”
By this time Wilson had staggered up to
the bar. Beaming a joyous, inebriated smile
on_ lns old boss, he hiccoughed:
“Sold ’em, old sausage; sold ’em to Cal-
laghan for 30 bob a head. Cumanavea-
whusky!”
The barman saw the trouble. He vaulted
over, rushed the two selectors into a room
and locked the door. Then he emptied the
raving squatter out into the road, and barri-
caded the pub for a siege.
It came. Amid a torrest of blistering pro-
fanity in two languages came a rain of rocks
on to the hotel windows. Not a piece of
glass the size of a half-crown remained on
the outside of that pub. When the sergeant
and his constable rushed down from the
other end of the town to see who had broken
the crust and let Hell loose, MeFarlane was
bellowing out a final curse, half English, half
Gaelic-—an _ imprecation more blastiferous
even than its predecessors—and was wheel-
ing his horse for a break-neck ride to Glen-
orchy.
He was met at the door of his home by the
nurse, who welcomed him by saying:
“Ye’ll be pleased, Maister MeFarlane, to
ken that a wee stranger has come to bide at
Glenorchy.”
“Aye!” grunted Mac, “an’ what is ut, a
laddie?”
“Na,” smiled the old dame; “just another
bonnie girl.”
“Guid God!” roared MeFarlane. “There
goes portion 19v too. I was sure ’twould be
a laddie. There’s no Donald MeFarlane the
noo.
The three forfeited selections were shortly
afterwards thrown open in one block as nas-
toral land, and that was duly selected by
Timothy Callaghan, who had boen 1 yin ol in
the churchyard in Skibbereen, County Tip-
nerary. for three years.
So Avoca run was consolidated. Callaghan
had scored.
CABER.
The Trapper Trapped.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Did I tell you that little trapdoor
spider experience of mine? No?
Well, I was havin’ a smoke under
a tree once, after a bit of a snack in the
middle of the day, when a hornet—one of
those big yellow-and-black chaps—’lights on
the ground a yard or two in front of me,
walks along on tiptoe a few inches, and then
lifts up—what do you think? Why, the
roof of a trapdoor spider’s diggin’s. Just
lifts it up a little way, quick, and lets it drop
again ; and before you can say knife, he’s
up on a low branch hidin’ behind a leaf.
“Aha!” says I, “there’s goin’ to be some
sport here,” and I takes the pipe out of my
mouth and sits as still as a knot on a log
and waits for the next act.
Quite gently, old Trappie raises the lid a
bit, and peeps out through the crack to see
who’s knockin’.
“No one there,” says he. “Very sing’lar
thing. P’raps it was the wind.” Shuts the
door. Down comes Auld Hornie again.
Opens the door a little wider this time. Pets
her go, whack! and up again behind his leaf
in a. jiffy, laughin’ to himself. Out comes
Spi in a hurry, and stands on his doorstep.
Pears to be a bit wild. Has a look round;
can’t see anyone but me; scratches his head.
Could ve swore I heard someone laugh, and
run away,” says he. “Take me oath it’s
some of that Billybung push. I’ll lay for
em.” Goes in again, slammin’ the door
behind him. Same performance again; and
the lid _goes back with a bang that nearly
shakes it off its hinges.
Ilornie only has time to dodge behind a
tuft of grass before Trappie rushes out, the
maddest spider you ever see, and swearin’
like a sailor’s parrot. “Oho !” says he, shakin’
his fist, “I heard you, y’ variegated young
larrikins! Wait till I catch you! By the
Holy Ancient Matilda, I’ll serve y’ up raw
for tea—that’s what I’ll do to you! I’ll
wait behind the door, and nail ’em next
time,” says he, and he goes inside again.
I can see things are movin’ up to a finish,
and when Hornie comes up smiliif for the
fourth round, he no sooner raises the roof
than Trappie’s out like a shot. Of course,
Ilornie’s been workin’ for this, and he’s up
10ft. in the air like winkin’ with Spide in his
clutches.
It’s “up in a balloon, boys,” for Spide, but
he fights for his natural, and blest if old
I ootball-Jacket can get any further with
him. The pair of ’em just hangs there in
mid-air clawin’ each other; then suddenly
down comes old Yellow-and-Black ivhop-oh!
on the broad of his back, buzzin’ like a
circ’lar-saw, with Spide on top of him.
They’re a bit jolted up, but soon get to work,
rollin’ over and over together, knockin’ the
furniture about, and abusin’ each other some-
thin’ shockin’.
Pretty soon I can see poor old Hornie’s all
out, and weak’nin’ fast. Must’ve jinked his
back that time. Spide gets him under directly,
and sits on his chest, and biffs him left and right
till he sends him to sleep. Then he puts in a
strangle-holt and finishes him. Good old
Spide’s just about done up, and wants a
spell-oh pretty bad; but he ain’t takin’ any
risks of Missus Hornie turnin’ up with a
fire-stick to see if her old man’s dropped into
a pub on his way home from the butcher’s—
not him! He grabs Hornie deceased by one
of his legs right away, and lugs him home,
and dumps him into the sepulchre, fairly
falling in a-top of him.
Then the “curtain” drops.
WILL READE.
The Bay of Rest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE day was dream-blue—a sun-maid-
| en’s eyes
_l_ Love-litten; the bay was all rippled
with blue,
The green trees dripped pearls, and soft blue
were the skies,
The grass a mad medley of sunbeams and
dew.
A thousand birds warbled —voluptuous
notes!
The spring-tide lapped lazily over the wall;
Near-by a brown boatman stood hosing his
boats;
He winked at me, slyly enjoying it all.
The day was a dream-day. I spied with
delight
A little blue ’rigger, new-painted and trim.
With new-varnished sculls and a gun’l-line
white;
My heart gave a leap, and I winked back at
him.
The day was in raptures!—a sun-maid sur-
prised
In fondling and kissing fresh wet leaves in
play;
I heard a Voice whisper: “That man is de-
spised
That meekly to labor goes townward to-
day!”
By bright harbor-waters, by cool bays of
dream.
The blue sky above me, the blue tide below,
I naddled the blue boat a-down the still
stream,
Past gardens where birds sing and love-
blossoms blow.
The shimmer of sun-gold delighted the sea;
Far-off an impalpable, rosy-pink haze
Veiled ocean and sky-line mysteriously
In vapory purples and radiant greys.
The hills were all dimpled with magical
light,
And down to the water’s edge verdure was
spread
With happy sun-buds, that all summer in-
vite
Glad fairies to dance and to dream when a-
bed.
Now two blue-eyed mermaids lay sunning
themselves
Like beautiful odalisques lullabied there,
’Mid yellow sand-roses and soft-singing elves
And bright rippled waters —luxurious pair!
“Oh, bonny blue boat, ’tis the blue Bay of i
Rest!”
I dallied unseen on the crisp dappled sands,
Till mermaids espying, divined me a guest,
Blew kisses of welcome with slender brown
hands.
Near-come I looked into the dreamiest eyes—
Eyes lustrous and tender, with love-light
aglow.
Eyes tilled with sea-lore, and wondrously
wise,
That only a mermaid may ponder or know.
On warm cheeks there galloped a fugitive
red,
Swift banners of shyness; such ceased to
depart : - - )
When red lips were held up for kisses, and
said
Were glad welcome speeches that sang in my
heart.
Then couched on a sand-dune, bud-spangled
and grassed,
We breathlessly gossiped, sipped afternoon
tea
From murex tea-cups with pearl saucers,
and passed
The merriest hours, a luxurious three. |
They’d w r onderful ornaments, exquisite
gems—
From what deep sea-caverns exultingly
won?
Shell ear-rings and coral with delicate
stems,
Sea-blossoms as red as the summer-red sun;
And lazuli necklaces, bracelets of pearl,
And fluorspar finger-rings; wavy and wet,
And ambergris scented, the hair of each girl
Was coifed with a sea-pink, coquettishly set.
Their soft-throated voices were lute-strings
that filled
The. ambient air with inebriant sound,
Their laughter was wave-wash and sun-
shimmer spilled |
On red-burnished beaches where white pearls
abound. j
Ineffable music! Such sounds have I heard
Whene’er the sea-wind in an ecstasy brings
The shrill eerie cry of a far ocean-bird,
And cunningly blends it with sea-inurmur-
ings.
While sunshine was dusting their brown hair
with gold
A thousand strange questions were heaped
upon me.
A thousand strange tales of the sea-folk were
told,
A thousand wild stories of wind, sky and sea.
The day was as blue as the mermaids’ blue
eyes,
Warm earth an enchantment of blue, gold
and green.
And in the wide sea and the wind-flickered
skies
No sign of distress and no blemish were
seen.
Their lullaby-voices encompassed my heart:
Sweet-thoughted, I passed into passionate
rest,
Dreamed of a new life of entrancements,
apart
From bicker and barter and strenuous quest.
And when I awoke there were no greeting
words,
But dark water frolicked, and in the dark
blue
The stars flickered madly like numberless
birds,
And near me two sea-pinks lay shining with
dew!
The bonny blue boat bears me farward and
near,
The summer-sun scatters his rays on my
quest;
“To-morrow !” I say ; and to-morrow is here,
But lost to me ever the blue Bay of Rest!
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


:v->
. ,
/•
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
ħ
No
■
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
■m
!<>%hc
atest Standard HOT POIHT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
MADE in Bib. and 61b. weights ; in sizes 2f"x s|", and 4" x 6t" ;
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively.
It has a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move—a glittering mirror finish —and, over all, our guarantee.
Thoroughly efficient for both light and heavy work; simple, yet
strong : clean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 301 b.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
W. G. WATSON & CO., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SECRET OF OUR PROMPTNESS
and satisfactory business methods is system. Our plant is so organised that we are enabled to
give the same close attention to the delivery of a small parcel as to the biggest furniture
removal. Our staff is experienced and trustworthy to a man. Will you allow us to serve you
—we will convey your luggage to its destination, remove or deliver your parcels. Our
’phone is City 1290.
SANDERS, SUTTON & WHITEHEAD LTD.,
Storage, Removal and Carrying Experts,
Contractors to N.S.W. Govt. Railways.
HEAD OFFICE -43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOTS: Chatswood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Dulwioh Hill, Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
The Rig'ht Solution of
the Engine Problem.
h
You want an engine that is Simple, Economical, De-
pendable and Durable. It must be simple so it will not
get out of repair, and so it will be easy to keep in
good working condition. It must be economical, so
that it will not eat up the profits that it makes for
you. It must be dependable because that is the only
kind of an engine you can rely on. And your engine
must be durable so that it will keep on paying you big
dividends year after year.
Very few engines meet these requirements, yet
there is no need to take chances. Choose the
“FARMER’S FRIEND” OIL ENGINE. They have
proved their worth in all kinds of work, in pumping
waters in drainage work, in irrigating land, and for the
thousand and one other jobs to which a good engine
can be put.
“Farmer’s Friend’’ Oil Engines
are made in all styles and all sizes. Choose the “Farmer’s Friend”
Engine, and you will have the best in portable or stationary Engines,
or portable wood-sawing outfits. But whichever “Farmer’s Friend” you
choose it will save you more money and make more money for you than
any other similar engine you can get.
( Let us prove all this to your satisfaction. Write a postcard now for
the Farmer’s Friend” Catalogue, which goes into details of construction
and materials used in making “Farmer’s Friend” Engines. You will be
pleased with the catalogue, and you should not buy any engine until you
read it. Simply address a postcard.
A Few Prices: 2-h.p„ £25; 3-h.p., £35; 4-h.p„ £45; 6-h.p., £65;
" 8-h.p., £B5; 12-h.p., £125.
SMALL DEPOSIT—LONG TERMS.
PARTRIDGE § HODGSON,
49 York St., Sydney,
339 Collins St., Melbourne.
“1
S 3
7a
iA
<*•
Uncle is lobking
younger every day since be
*"* BEECHAN'S PILLS
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD consul
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. fri n. McWH.UAM, Manager.
ĥ
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Tire Bullstw.] Also at Cornor of Bourlco and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
DINNEFORDS
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
iMPOttTMrr
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tation s purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford & Ce."
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
-• >.
AjiSii x
;•□□ rrjr* J
3 *' q f
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Stro&groom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY,
TR9UCH6TS
'KIDNEY&BHDDEK
REMEDY
A COHPECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
ħ
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TO/NIC
Obtainable an Chemists
Mltiili 1W
imms
m


ARCHITECTS s pecify
Mack partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspeot.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
Combined Electricity and
Destructor Undertakings
are becoming general. The “HEENAN” Patent is the last thing in
Refuse Destruction —
PAYS FOR ITSELF IN A FEW YEARS.
Full particulars on application to
AU AQENttP! AN ’ T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. r 4
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
the original and
CENUINE BALATA.
TRADu
IS
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT vet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a artiard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
h
which can also be
fitted to Canvas and
Wire Top Tubes.
Ask the Agents for Particulars and Cost.
‘Bi ONE OF
THE
1911
IMPROVEMENTS
DALGETYB COMPANY L™-
SOLE AGENTS,
Machinery Dept., Miller’s Point, Sydney
ĥ
TANGYE
KEROSENE
OIL ENGINES
for Shearing, Chaffcutting, Pumping, Woodcutting
etc.
The Tangye has a Big Reputation for
SIMPLICITY and RELIABILITY.
in N.S.W.
and giving the UTMOST
SATISFACTION.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE
- „ , .. -'Zj .. , * \
fitted with all Up-to-date Mountings, and built
“to last a lifetime.”
s
NONE CAN EQUAL
The "Clayton and
Shuttleworth.”
H. P. GREGORY e CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Fd M & Fa an Plan *' rs >> Matchers, Mo/c/ers,
M U/ UC ° S/nff/e and DoaA/e Spindle
Shapers, Sanders, Saw Benches, Band Saw Machines
Wood Lathes.
Circular Saws, Wide and Narrow Band Saw
Blades and Files, Saw Sharpeners, Emery
Wheels, Shafting, Steel Split Pulieys.
Simonds’
IN STOCK—Complete Lines of Machines and Supplies for the
Sawmiller, Cabinet Maker. Write for Catalogue.
r'
m
m
ROCK
DRILL,
Over
Five Hundred
in use on the
Rand.
Successful
Trial in
Australia.
ħ
Rock Drills,
Hammer
Drills,
Coal
Cutters.
BEFORE BUYING OTHER HAVE A FREE TRIAL.
International Channelling 1 Machines, Sheffield.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
DIERCICS CO 4-59 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And at Sydney.
h
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DI7DTII
St. George’s Terrace, rliKlll.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
/' , •• , , t - yry j(- ** . , r. ;
Electrical Accessories,
Motors, Dynamos and Cables
IN STOCK.
isren
FIRST* FOREMOST
MACHINE
Withal! the Latesl"
ĥ
Sole Agents
Dan gar GfcDYEaCoSydney!
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
s*sw !
No. 5 for 1000 Feet.
“■ DOWNIE DEEP WELL PUMPS.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
263 George Street, SYDNEY;
525 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
No. 25 OIL RIG for 2500 Feet.
