

Tie EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— • f".
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Gardner Duplex
Steam Pumps.
Perfectly Reliable in Mines and Factories.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELANO, Victoria Square, Adelaida,
HOBAPIT,
—a#fi —
fiadiegs Orient Tioief.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Gdarantbbd.
</. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
sg
"Take it back.
1 must have—
HUTTON’S
fiat Apple Brand
fdg
CHUBB'S NEW DOOR LATCH
■ , ■ = 1 ■, ■ ■ ■ 1 , ■
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommelided by numerous
highly nutritious and invi|
tira -
doctors as being
ing for the diges-
u
HANSENS
fd
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals.
V
279 George Street
YDNEY .
&&*y<
V V v c /
4
$
V*
2V
f*' £>
° A
$
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWOASTLE.
BINSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
hf
the Queen of all Cocoas
is
FOE^
The roofing suitable for tbe best buildings
possible to ere eft. Pabco is Maltboid witb
tbe addition of Asbestos, and when laid can
be finished a permanent white, terra-cotta
or green color.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Eyahs, Australasian Manager.
PABCO
(Asbestos Coated Malthoid).
KUPPER LAGER.
Always
9
4
Black
Square Bottle.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA lies in its
solvent power and cleansing properties.
HALLMAN. LM„
The Bulletin
VaJ. 32.—N0. 1641.]
[Thursday, July 27, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS AND NEW SUPPLIES.
Chambers, R. W.: Adventures of a Modest Man, 3/6;
posted 3/9.
Motor Boat Manual, 1/9; posted 1/10.
O’Brien, B.: 100 Years of Irish History, 3/-; p. 3/3.
Harper’s Aerial Locomotion, 1/3 ; posted 1/5.
100 Best Houses, 1/3; posted 1/5.
Macfall’s History of Painting, Vol. IV., 9/-; p. 9/6.
Humphrey, J. H.: Proportional Representation, 6/-;
Marshall’s Sunny Australia, 3/6; posted 3/9.
Chatterton, E. K.: Britain’s Record, 9/-; posted 9/8
Whyte, A. G.: Electricity in Locomotion, 1/3 •
posted 1/5. ' ’
Wicherlcy, W.: Whole Art of Rubber-growing 61- ■
posted 6/4. . b 0/ '
Rankin’s Simple Lessons in Color, 4/6; posted 4/9
Neilson’s Calculation of Columns, 5/6; posted 5/9
posted 6/4.
Beautiful Britain I
. . v —iwoitu O/tf.
-1/9 each; posted 1/11 each
Soyer’s Paper-Bag Cookery Book, price 1/6, posted 1/7, to arrive shortly.
ROBERTSON’S, Booksellers 238
ies: Clyde, Oxford, Windsor-
ted 1/7,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro longed
periods."
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
mo
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, |tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York
THE RED PAGE
BALLADE OF DREAMS.
Across the loom the shuttles fly,
TT Like random' rippled lights at play
Upon the road where you, where I,
Drift down the Valley of To-day;
White snowdrop stars beside the way
Illume the flight of fancies fled,
In some far Springtime’s snowdrop spray
Our dreams shall live when we are dead.
We quibble over how and why,
Or vex our souls with “yea” and “nay” ;
Turn all the golden years awry,
And bid the wheel of pleasure stay;
And still our webs of hodden grey
Are shot with many a wizard thread
That passes not with passing clay—-
Our dreams shall live when we are dead.
The good, the strong, the brave shall die—
All flesh shall perish e’en as they;
Nor love, nor life, nor duty’s tie
Shall hold the fateful hour at bay:
Biit past restraining barriers, yea
On universal pinions spread,
A phooenix phalanx o’er decay,
Our dreams shall live when we are dead.
With cypress gather blooms o’ may,
Beyond the dark the dawn is red ;
reace, sad one, though the gods shall slay,
Our dreams shall live when we are dead.
Marie Pitt, in The Horses of the Hills.
R. L. Stevenson
The official biography of Robert Louis
Stevenson, by Graham Balfour, though it
contained much interesting material, was an
unsatisfactory book. It appeared too soon
after the death of the subject, and it was
written by a cousin who pruned away the
eccentricities and weaknesses of li. L.S. in
the pious endeavor to make him appear a
Great Man. Henley protested in an article
which raised howls from the hero-worship-
pers. The tumult has subsided now, the
works' of Stevenson have virtually settled
into their place, and we can see the man in
something like his true proportions. These
are displayed by himself in his letters better
than anywhere else.
The original collection has been enriched
by 150 new letters, and the whole has been
arranged in chronological order by Sidney
Colvin, who has supplied biographical links
and explanatory notes. The Letters of R.
L, Stevenson, in four handsome pocket vol-
umes (published by Methuen at ss. net per
vol.), is the best kind of biography one could
wish of a man who was not of the heroic
proportions which deserve a Boswell, and
who was above all things a writer.
In his generation Stevenson was easily
first of. the class of professional writers for
whom the term “men of letters” should be
reserved. There were greater poets and
novelists; but no other writer appealed so
strongly to craftsmen and to general
readers, big and little ; and no' other, save
Andrew Lang, could do so many kinds
of literary work so well. There is in all his
books —from Virginibus Puerisque onwards
—the subtle essence of a personality more
charming than any since Charles Lamb’s.
It is that element in his letters which gives
them a high place in epistolary literature.
They reflect every phase of a gay, romantic
nature, with a stiffening of 'Puritanism;
they have something of the essayist and
something of the Shorter Catechist, some-
thing of the freakish humor which made
Symonds call him The Sprite, and something
of the quality'of talk.
All through his short life Stevenson was
in the grip of Disease, or dogged bv its
ghost. Though references to “Bluidy Jock,”
as Ire called his hemorrhages, are numerous
in these letters, there is no whining; ho
whistled bravely to keep up his spirits, and
acted upon his own advice in “Aes Triplex” :
* By all means begin your folio; even if
the doctor does not give you a year, even
if he hesitates about a month, make one
brave push and see what can be accom-
plished in a week.
He died at 44, and his printed works fill 25
volumes. A brave man, certainly; with a
love of lusty life, of open-air adventure made
poignant by ill-health. Perhaps none but a
sick man could have played so often upon
fear as a master passion as Stevenson did in
his stories, and, at its highest expression,
in Admir'al Guinea. He wrote from Vail-
ima:—
I have always feared the sound of wind
beyond anything. In my hell it would always
blow a gale.
And, in telling about his struggles with the
weeds, there, he said
I wonder if anyone had ever the same
attitude to Nature as I hold and have held
for so long? This business fascinates me
like a tune or a passion; yet all the ,ikhile I
thrill with a strong distaste. The horror
of the thing, objective and subjective, is
always present to my mind; the horror of
creeping things, a superstitious horror of
the void and the powers about me, the hor-
ror of my own devastation and continual
murders. The life of the plants comes'
through my finger tips, their struggles go
to my heart like supplications. I feel my-
self blood-boltered; then I look back on my
cleared grass and count myself an ally in
a fair quarrel, and make stout my heart.
In the same letter he said: “I scarce pull
up a weed, but I invent a sentence on the
matter.” There you have the utterance of
one who was not born fof action, but des-
tined to find words to describe action.
The letters are full of interest to all who
are concerned with the craftsmanship of writ-
ings They lay bare so much of his profes-
sional machinery, and give the reader a,
clearer perception of the pains taken to ac-=
quire that distinction of style which is the :
nineteenth century equivalent of Addisonian
grace. Most people know his confession of
having played the sedulous ape to this writer
and that when forming his style. He held
that style is the one quality in which a
writer may improve himself at will, and in
a letter to William Archer he defined the
amateur:—
Why was Jenkm an amateur in my
eyes ? . . . The reason is this: I never, or
almost never, saw two pages of his work
that I could not have put in one without
the smallest loss of material. That is the
only test I know of writing. . . . Then you
will bring me up with old Dumas. Nay,
the object of a story is to be long, to fill up
hours; the story-teller’s art of writing is to
water out by continual invention and yet
not seem to water; seem on the other hand
to practise the same wit of conspicuous
and declaratory condensation which is the
proper art ot writing.
“I would rise from the dead to preach,” he
said in that letter, and preach lie did in
many other letters to hardy veterans and be-
ginners. He tells one of the latter-
Every gay, every bright word or picture
like every pleasant air of music is a piece
of pleasure set afioat; the reader catches
it, and, if he be healthy, goes on his way
rejoicing, and it is the business of art sp to
send him as often as possible.
A few pages further on is a letter to Goss-?,
in which he throws off some irritation with
“the fatuous rabble of burgesses called ‘the
public’ ” and his own profession
As for the art that we practise I have
never been able to see why its professors
should be respected. They chose the prim-
rose path ; when they found it was not all
primroses but some of it brambly they be-
gan to think and to speak of themselves as
holy martyrs. But a man is never martyred
in any honest sense in the pursuit of his
pleasure, and delirium tremens has more
of the honor of the cross. We are full of
the pride of life, and chose like prostitutes
to live by a pleasure. We should be paid
if we give the pleasure we pretend to give,
but why should we be honored?
Stevenson, the popular author, forgot that
respect is for power, not pleasure; and that
many of the pleasure-giving writers received
little pay or honor in their day. They were
driven on to t-he “primrose path” by a con-
junction of the stars, or anything rather than
hope or honor.
However, to Stevenson the inky way whs
the “primrose path.” He revelled in the art
of writing, had plenty of praise, was happy
in his friendships, and was sustained in phy-
sical trials by a sturdy optimism. He
studied himself for literary purposes, and
exploited “K.L.S.” thoroughly. All that was
of interest in the man is in his work and
letters. Dr. Jekyll, the romancer, will be
read and remembered with pleasure along
with all but the greatest of his tribe ; Mr.
Hyde, the moralist, already shares the honors
with Elbert Hubbard, Ralph Waldo Trine
and other uplifting writers of America.
Verses by Marie E. J. Pitt
While the horse-poet is resting, Marie E.
J. Pitt makes the gee-gee gallop for sym-
bolical purposes in her book, The Horses
of the Hills and other Verses (T. C. Lo-
thian). In Ogilvie’s version of the “Riding
of the Rebel” the fiery steed was tamed by
the hand of a woman. Mrs. Pitt’s “Rebel”
evaded all would-be captors, and “raced for
freedom by a track we dared not follow.”
The horse to her is a symbol of freedom,
and a passionate desire for freedom per-
vades her book. There are verses written
for their own sake with lines that are
musical, as in the ballade printed above,
and this in spite of its sibilants:
The slumbrous serenade the brown bee
sings.
Here is a pretty figure for Autumn:
In her stranded gold is the silver thread
Of the first grey hair in the head of the
year. 7 •
And here a river in flood:
Like a hooded serpent ready to smite
Old Mitchell rears in his straitened bed.
Sometimes her notes are almost as soft as
Kendall’s as in
Myrtle, myrtle, watching yet,
Where old Montezuma races
Down the water-worn rock faces,
Singing songs to lonely places
Set in ways of wood and wet!
You can see them hardening under the in-
fluence of O’Dowd in “The Heathen of To-
Day.”
Their altars mock the sullen skies
They worship unafraid
. With daily human sacrifice
The Juggernauts of Trade.
Hyssop and rue and mandragore
Fringe Fashion’s fetid marge,
The helot sinks beside the oar
Of Luxury’s gilded barge.
And you get at least one pile of well-
baked O’Dowdian bricks in “Society.”
If Mfs. Pitt does not sing with the sweet-
ness and abandon of a bu§h magpie it is
because she sees the bars of the cage around
her, and her song is a song of protest and
invective against her captors. Her book is
a contribution of real value to the poetry
militant of Australian democracy.
Flaubert’s "Temptation of St.
Anthony"
Lafcadio Hearne’s translation of Flau-
bert’s La Tentation de St. Antoine has just
been published for the first time in America
by Alice Harriman, of New York, the only
woman in the publishing business.
Hearne began his version 36 years ago,
but could never persuade the contemporary
publishers to even read his MS.; the subject
was vetoed on sight as “immoral.” Yet
this masterpiece of Flaubert’s genius (which
occupied him 29 years, and which he en-
tirely rewrote 4 times) presents the “Temp-
tation" as a distinctly intellectual one.
The Devil (disguised as a former disciple,
Hilarion) appeals to the reason of the Saint
by raising before him a series of visions,
representing the downfall of every belief held
by man, from the beginnings of history. At
last the voice of great Jehovah Himself is
heard—the dying utterance of a god van-
quished and passing away. As the echo
fades into silence and blackest night, An-
thony, terrified, gazes upward at Hilarion,
who with each succeeding vision has grown
vaster and vaster: finds him grown great
as the Universe itself, beautiful as an arch-
angel, luminous as a sun: stammers “Who
art thou?” and hears the answer, “Men call
me SCIENCE.”
Forthwith the great angel carries him into
the deeps of space among the stars; mute
witnesses of the impersonality of God, and
we hear Anthony’s heartbroken cry:—
What! my prayers, my sobs, my groans,
the sufferings of my flesh, the transports of
my love—have all these things gone out to a
lie —to emptiness, unavailingly—like (he cry
of a bird, like a whirling of dead leaves ?. . .
Science cannot prevail, and abandons him.
Then, after visions of the Spirits of Lust
and Death, and of the animals of fable,
comes the final temptation. The Saint’s
sight turns inward upon Matter itself. He
beholds how universal Life underlies the ap-
pearance of rock and crystal, even as animal
or star: in a delirious ecstasy he hovers on
the verge of belief in Pantheism —when day
breaks: the dreams vanish: the sun rises—
and in the very disc of the sun itself beams
the face of Christ.
The “temptation” is over. Anthony has
won, Faith has conquered Disbelief —or (ac-
cording to another standard) Anthony has
lost, Emotion has vanquished Reason.
Flaubert has infused this gigantic drama
of the soul with that genius for word-color
of which he was master. The whole has a
bewildering effect on the mind : it pours for
us a torrent of exotic riches, the variety of
which, like much of the complex chord-
weaving of Wagner, the understanding al-
most vainly struggles to hold. The visions
press on each other with exuberance of color
and motion, always verging toward the de-
corative and bizarre. We are shown Diana
of Ephesus “black with enamelled eyes,”
while Anthony sees the gods of Indian-
Riding upon birds, rocked in palanquins,
enthroned upon seats of gold, standing in
ivory niches —they dream, voyage, command,
drink wine, respire the breath of flowers:
dancing girls whirl in the dance; giants pur-
sue monsters; at the entrance of grottoes
solitaries meditate. Eyes cannot be dis-
tinguished from stars; nor clouds from band-
erolles: peacocks quench their thirst at
rivers of gold dust; the embroidery of pav-
ilions seems to blend with the spots of leop-
ards : colored rays intercross in the blue air
together with flying arrows and swinging
censers and all this develops like a lofty
frieze, resting its base upon the rocks and
rising to the sky.
Yet so exact is the intricate presentment
that each heretical sect of the early Chris-
tians, for instance, finds room for treatment
in a brief picture which displays not only
the outward garment of the belief but its es-
sence as well. And with a nobler faith the
glittering prose can rise to impressive sim-
plicity, as in that lament, sung by the
Earth over dying Mithras, which drew An-
thony to dream of the mother of Jesus:—
. Thou didst emerge from the Orient, and
didst take me, all trembling with the dew,
into thy arms, O Sun! Doves fluttered upon
the azure of thy mantle ; our kisses evoked
low,breezes among the foliage; and I aban-
doned myself wholly to thy love, delighting
in the pleasure of my weakness.
Alas! alas! —Why didst thou depart, to
run upon the mountains! A boar did wound
thee at the time of the autumnal equinox!
Thou art dead ; and the fountains weep—
the trees bend down. The wind of winter
whistles through the naked brushwood.
My eyes are about to close, seeing that
darkness covers them! Now thou dwellest
in the underworld near the mightiest of my
rivals.
O Persephone, all that is beautiful de-
scends to thee, never to return !... .
Lafcadio Hearne’s English has the sole
defect that at times it adheres too
closely to French idiom. This in some
cases obscures the meaning, as where Hil-
arion, a tiny child, is described as Anthony’s
“ancient disciple”; while in others it les-
sens the beauty of the presented idea. Thus,
in the passage quoted above, the transcrip-
tion would have gained if for the brazen lit-
eral words, Our kisses evoked low breezes
among the foliage, some more rhythmic para-
phrase had been employed, such as, Our
kisses whispered through the leaves like
sighs.
H. C. McK.
» Nation states that a biograDhv
cf os - e P^ 1 Fanks has been written bv Erl
ward Smith (“who has already gimit
good biography of Wm. Cobbett”?, and will
be published shortly by John Lane j H
Maiden, of Sydney, who collected a W*
amount of material, and made a good skefe-
ton biography will be interested to see what
Smith does with Banks. at
The V.A.8., a monthly journal of the Vic-
torian Society, was born again at the
beginning of July, lor the modest price of
® n „ e , , p ® nri . y ) vll ° are interested in art
matters in Victoria can get some notes on
local exhibitions, the latest purchases by the
Felton trustees, the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre, and Itupert Bunny, an Australian
London his ma * k in Paris aS3
This from the Literary Supplement to
London limes : “Among the treasures of
Coronation literature, ‘Pearls of Poesy a
Biographical Birthday Book,’ by Popular
Poets of the Period, issues its prospectus,
wherein 06G poets—one for each day of
the year, including leap-year,’ are invited
to contribute each a poem and autobio-
graphical notice, which will be inserted (as
far as possible) on his or her birthday in
'Fook of the Year.’ The printers,
Messrs'. Japp and Joothill, have engaged
as editor ‘Dr. Chas. Forsliaw, than whom
no better name is known in the world of
poetry and have printed specimens and
hints tor the poets’ guidance. The poems
inust not exceed 24 lines, and ‘must all be
of a joy-inspiring and soul-ennobling na-
ture —rippling with smiles, as it were.’ The
autobiographies are limited to 200 words
apiece ; and if the vain child of the Muses
should exceed this allowance and make - his
chronicles too long, then Dr. Forsliaw will
foreshorten them in the manner, presum-
ably, in which he has dealt with the speci-
mens. Thus we read of one of the poets that ‘lie
is nephew of the Archbishop of Armagh
and has written verse since he was 16, and
lus poems have met with the direct ap-
proval of Royalty’; of another, ‘Mr.
Barker s muse is ever lofty and chaste,
whether it be from grave to gay, or from
lively to severe.’ £lO is offered for the best
poem; but Messrs. Tapp and Toothill have
not extended their confidence to Dr. For-
shaw so far as to allow him to adjudicate
this prize, although he is a Fellow of the
Royal Society of Literature, and ‘his de-
cision regarding all matters pertaining to
Pearls of Poesy must be regarded as final.’
Ihe scheme is that the contributors shall
purchase the volume, and vote after read-
ing it. Should they simply and honestly
prefer to vote each for himself—which, to
judge from the specimens, they might
reasonably do —then the £lO will, we pre-
sume, be equally distributed among them,
which will give 61d. per head, and, reduce
the cost of the book to them at subscribers’
price from ss. 6d. to 4s. ll^d.”
Shaw and his American biographer, Hen-
derson, _ have been quarrelling over the re-
sponsibility for the latter’s big .eulogistic
book, which has produced some sarcastic com-
ments from English reviewers. Shaw says
that the biography is already attracting a
stream of American pilgrims to a house in
which he never lived; he did not say that “If
Henley had been a good fellow I should
doubtless have influenced him,” and he did
not draw Dubedat in The Doctor's Dilemma
from Aubrey Beardsley. “I must add that
the fault is mine, and not Prof. Henderson’s.
He strove to make me read my own life in
manuscript, and strove in vain ; I had had
enough of it while living it.” Henderson re-
plies that Shaw not only supplied a large
part of the material, but read the manuscript
of the book and annotated it. He is there-
fore responsible for the statements attributed
to him, and for the photographs. The dis-
pute makes Shaw look foolish.
There is no falling off in the supply of
American millionaires who turn naturally
from the collection of coin and securities
to the collection of books, autographs, Old
Masters or anything else that may be in
fashion. The supply of Gutenberg Bibles
and letters in the handwriting of Burns,
Cromwell and such people is not increasing
?° HP goes the price of curios. At the
sale of Iluth’s collection of autographs in
London last month a letter of Mary Queen
of Scots, which had been bought in 1862
tor two guineas, was sold for £1025, a let-
ter of Shelley which cost £6 12s. brought
£mo a letter of Keats cost £27 and sold
ror £450, a letter of Katherine of Arragon
brought £BOO (previous price, £26), the
MS. of Burns’ “Jolly Beggars” £490 (cost
£l2), and Fielding’s receipt for the £6OO
paid for the copyright of Tom Jones, which
cost Iluth £l2 125., was sold for £lOl5.
Altogether, the autographs purchased 30 to
50 years ago at £2OOO realised £13,000.


A
<aae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for BROOCHES & BANGLES
9ct. Gold Fancy Circle
Brooch, 4/6.
No. S',o7— 9ct. Gold Fancy Brooch,
set 1 Garnet, 2 Greenstones and 4
Pearls, 18/6.
No. 873—9 ct. Gold Music Brooch, 9/6 ;
Pearl'S'et, 14/6.
No. 973- -9ct. Gold Circle and
Fancy Bar Brooch, 4/6.
No. 971— 9 ct. Gold Bar and Heart
Brooch, 4/9.
No. 972—9 ct. Gold Fancy Floral Spray
Brooch, 9/m
No. 918—'Oct. Gold Wishbone
Brooch, Leaf Centre, 13/6.
Ko. 876— <>ct. Qolu Scroll Brooch, set
1 Amethyst and Pearls, 12/6.
No. 974- -9 ct. Gold Bird and
Circle Brooch, 4/6.
No. <>7s— 9ct. Gold Bar and Circle
Brooch, set Garnet Centre, 5/«
No. 976—9 ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 5/-
No. 977 —9 ct. Gold Bar and Floral
Spray Brooch, 4/=
No. 978 - 9ct. Gold Bar and Heart
Brooch, set with Amethyst, 4/9.
IN
No 979—9 ct. Gold Bird and
Heart Brooch, 4/6.
No. 980 9ct. Gold Floral Spray
Brooch, 5/-
No. !)81 —9ct. Q.jSd Haney Bar Scroll
Brooch, with Garnet in Centre, 5/9.
No. 983 —9 ct. Gold Floral Spray and
Heart Brooch, set Garnet, 6/-
TERMS: SPOT CASH
No. 98E —9ct. Gold Bar and Heart
Floral Brooch, 5/=
No. 986 —9ct. ‘Gold Fancy Floral
Brooch, 10/6.
No. 98S— 9ct. Gold Bar and Bird
Brooch, with Amethyst, Turquoise or
Garnet Drop, 9/6.
No. 707 9ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearl set, .with
Sapphire, or Amethyst Centre, 45/=
Garnet,
No. 511— 9zt. Gold Bracelet, set with 11 Garnets or Topaz
and 20 Pearls, 50/-- ; smaller, 38/6, 42/-
9ct. Gold Circle Brooch,
set with Amethyst or Tur-
quoise, io/-
9ct. Gold Circle Brooch,
set with Amethysts, 17/6.
9cl. Gold Wristlet Watch, with wide Flexible Bangle ;
Watch, J-plate Compensation Balance, thoroughly depend-
able -at all times, £6/10/=
Other designs from £4/4/= to £l5/15/=
9ct. Gold Circle Brooch
with Peridot in Centre, 16/
Oct. Gold Circle Brooch,
Floral Spray Centre, 15/-
No. 515— 9 ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, with Safety
Chain. Full size. 23/6. 27/6, 30/=, 36/6, 43/-,
84/=, 87/6.
No. 706 — 9ct. Gold Milanese Bracelet, £2/18/6, 75/
15ot. Gold, £4/17/6, £5/18/6, £6/15/6.
9ct. Gold and Platinum, £5/17/6, £6/10/=
No. 982 —9ct. Gold Fancy Bar and Circle
Brooch, with Garnet in Centre, 6/=
No. 984— 9 ct. Gold Fancy Bar and Circle
Floral Spray Brooch, set Amethyst, 6/9.
TERMS : SPOT CASH
No. 875 9ct. Gold Fancy Floral
Brooch, 12/6.
No. 987—9 ct. Gold Wishbone and Florrl
Spray Brooch, set Garnet Centre, 5/-
No. OSD— 9ct. Gold Bird and Wishbone
Brooch, 5/-
No. 902—9 ct, Gold Brooch, set Garnet,
Peridots and Pearls, 27/6.
No. 990 —9ct. Gold Bar and Circle
Brooch, set Garnet Centre, 5/-
No. 991 -9ct. Gold Fancy Brooch,
with Heart Drop, 5/6.
No. 994 —9 ct. Gold Bar and Heart
Brooch, set with Garnet drop, 5/6.
No. 992 —9ct. Gold Bar and Floral
Spray Brooch, 5/=
No. 906 —9 ct. Gold Mizpah Brooch, set
Pearls and Garnet, 12/-
No. 995— 9 ct. Gold Heart and Scroll
Bar Brooch, set Amethyst, 6/=
No. 996 —9 ct. Gold FJoral Bar and
Spray Brooch, set Amethyst, 5/6.
No. 997— 9 ct. Gold Bar and Floral
Spray Brooch, 4/6.
No. 90S— 9ct. Gold Bar and Floral
Brooch, 4/-
No. 383 —9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, 6/-
15ct. Gold, 8/9.
Any Name Engraved.
No. 999 —9 ct. Ciold Fancy Bar
Brooch, with Garnet Cent re, 4/=
No. 10C0—9ct. Gold Wishbone
Brooch, set "ith Garnet, 4/6.
No. 1001— Oct. Gold Fancy Scroll
Brooch, 10/=
N & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricHneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
rri
r
23S
%
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The morp you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
8 S V S 6 i*
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
Vw\
) . >
I
K
The Wonderful Plate=Lifter.
Will make ynur friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
sb
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting' fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET
SYDNEY.
COLDS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs In violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immed’ately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
fd
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
hfd
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt Britain • Liquid and Tablets 1/15 and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c. in Australia.
Proprietors ; -ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leaseholi
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IIBF"* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors— The Hon. A. VY. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman • Beniamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J\ Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. El Winchcombe M.L.C. •
rrn. „ ox > Esc l" K - c - General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.I.A. FF A FSS '
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field- of unbounded scope to the investor, the sc.entist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker. *
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
Cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, 1/li and 2/9 per box.
Will Andrade - BOOKS.
Or. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE
UNABRIOCED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvoyance, 1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1 ; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
m~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd's Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The WONDERFUL VIRTUES
The following letter was written from “ Glenevonf Sodwalls, JV.S. Wales,
Jth March, ign, and it shows what a wonderful remedy this is for restoring
the sick man or woman to health and strength. Read this letter :
Clements Tonic Ltd.
“I wish you to know what benefit I have received from your Tonic and Fletcher’s
Pills, which you sell with your Tonic. I have suffered from chronic indigestion for
many years, and about 10 months ago, through an illness and trouble, my health com-
OF CLEMENTS TONIC
pletely gave way. My digestion, as well as all other functions of my body, became so
weak that I could not take even the lightest of food without suffering very much pain. I
became quite a wreck. I suffered pain from all parts of my body and limbs, which
ached to such an extent that I could scarcely walk about. There was not one part
of me which was not in pain, my heart especially felt very bad, with constant pain
and heaviness there. Also, a feeling of weakness, which made me feel it was quite
impossible for me to live for long. There was also a dreadful cold sensation shoot-
ing from the heart. My nerves, too, were weak, that the slightest noise upset me
completely, and increased the awful pain and weakness at my heart. I had given up
hopes of ever getting better, as I had been attended to by three doctors, and also two
SAVED this WOMAN’S LIFE
chemists, and had taken different patent medicines, but without any improvement. I
then decided to try Clements Tonic, and I cannot find words to express my feelings
of pleasure in doing so. Before the first bottle was completed, I found I was improv-
ing in every way. I have taken three bottles only. I can now take any kind of food,
and can sleep well, and all pain has left my body and limbs. My heart, too, is feeling
quite well again. I have taken a great amount of medicine during my life, but never
any have I derived so much benefit from as Clements Tonic and Dr. Fletcher’s Pills.
You may use this testimony as you wish, as I have witnesses to prove it is true.
, Yours faithfully, (Signed) EMMA JENKINS.”
Clements Tonic is unequalled for the relief of Anaemia, Loss of Sleep,
Appetite, or Confidence. It benefits Nervousness, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness. All Stores and Chemists sell it.


Arc
You
Thin?
PaSe?
wm.
|§?V?SS
■•V
All run dt vn, easily tired, nerv-
ous? And do not know what
to take? Then go direct to
your doctor. Ask his opinion
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It con-
tains no alcohol, no stimulation,
and is a blood purifier, a nerve
tonic, a strong alterative, an aid
to digestion. Ask your doctor
about Ayer’s non-alcoholic Sar-
saparilla as a strong tonic for
the weak.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. K
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Ask your Friends
why they use Cerebos
Salt ; you will find
they use it because of
its purity, or its good-
ness, or its daintiness
—or for all three
qualities,
Cerebos
Salt
Agents—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
%
MINTS
A
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 187,
THE
IDEAL APERIENT
ik
M'l
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
h
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
i
HI
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence Sc.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Risrg;.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Ascents.
fd
BE SURE YOU GET
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bonnington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ?■ It is ‘just as good.’” :>v ~
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
Irish Moss. ■
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try it the next time you have a cold, and you will be satisfied. [l
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
<y
tl Even with, all the salubriousness of this splendid
Australian climate , your women are not
developed in figure as well as they should be.”
—A prominent French writer at a farewell dinner.
PERFECT BUST
PEVELOPMENT.
IT is the refreshing firmness and delightful
fulness of the feminine form that capti-
vates, and the woman who is most per-
fectly developed is the one who monopolises
the endearments of the opposite sex.
A thin woman is not necessarily plain ; in
fact many thin women are admittedly pretty,
but the admission is always qualified with—
“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
If your bust lacks development and firm-
ness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are
thin and scrawny, even though your face is
pretty, you invariably take second place to
your more fully-developed, full-bosomed
associates in your own social set. It will
always be so unless you correct the imperfec-
tions in your figure.
By following our advice, thousands of weak,
nervous, run-down, anaemic women, who
came to us suffering the ravages of constipa-
tion, biliousness, backache from internal and
functional disorders, and merely skeletons of
what they were to become, have not only been
restored to perfect health, but have been
brought up to their normal weight and devel-
oped to their correct bust, hip and limb pro-
portions.
Let us tell you, absolutely tree of charge, how the
same may be done for you. All we ask is that you
enclose a 2d. stamp, and write for our specially-
illustrated free book, “Lovely Woman.” We will
also send a Free Sample Treatment.
Full particulars will be posted to you at once.
Our advice costs you nothing. Call if possible.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO..
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY,
Rear Equitable Building’s.
ISOI
hfd
AT BREAKFAST TIME
or supper time Horlick’s Malted Milk
is a delicious substitute for tea, coffee and
cocoa. It is prepared
in a minute and requires
no cooking.
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists and
Stores. Samples and
Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted
Milk Co., Slough,
Bucks., England.
LK
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes hut ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to tempt death by Heart Disease?
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison,
You Can Try It FREE.
Send ‘2d. Stamp and we will post von a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET—“The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney. [i
£1573|18|9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
oi. y .°“ The Wayback Series.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless and
cumbersome trusses ? Do you wunt to obtain an
appliance that is not only comfortable to wear ;
but one THAT WILL HOLD YOUR RUPTURE UNDER
ALL CONDI ITONS? Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials regarding
our
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
which is something entirely new, is in fact, THE
BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE OF THE CENTURY. No
galling steel springs or chafing leather -under-
straps. The pad is made of soft pliable rubber,
which presses gently, yet firmly on THE CORRECT
SPOT. To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the reach
of all. Can you ask for more? PERFECT EASE
AND COMFORT FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE. An
appliance suitable ior men, women and children
i Descriptive Pamphlet Posted Free.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 COLLINB ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
V''
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat* *
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Ask. y° ur Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wanderlust.
N.S.W.
The main road I
The plain road !
Oh, far it goes and wide.
The highway to
Fields fresh and new;
The track of “What betide.”
The young and strong,
A gallant' throng,
Along its length essay
To break a lance
With “What may chance,”
Or welcome “Come what may.”
But —I must take my own road,
The Town road,
The down road,
Though would to God again I trod
The path to Better Day.
The green road!
The clean road!
The way of wood and wild!
Where bird and brute
Reign absolute —
The highway undefiled.
Across the plains
The sweeping trains
Of wanton breezes urge
Such shine and sheen
Of billows green,
Such grassy surge on surge!
But I must go my own way,
The dry road,
The by-road!
Though it were sweet
To find my feet
Upon the bushland’s verge!
The old road!
The bold road!
The road adventure cleared 1
Such way as Drake
And his would take
To singe the Spaniard’s beard.
Columbus took
That route, and Cook
Made plain the path for us;
The bones of brave
In thousands pave
The pathway perilous.
But I must go my own road —
The back road!
The black road!
Though I am fain
To dare again
Ways more precipitous.
The last road!
The vast road!
The road that all abhor!
For Death and Fate
Stand at the gate,
Grim guard and janitor.
The straight, the bowed,
The meek, the proud,
With fixed and awful stare,
Unclad and stark,
Pursue the dark,
The dreadful thoroughfare.
But I must go my own road.
The same road,
The tame road.
Till Warder Death
Me beckon eth,
And I go hence to —where?
JOHN WALTERS.
Briny Bards.
Oft in vivid song and story, long before the world was
hoary,
Did the ancient bards pen-picture all the vast and
restless sea;
Wondrous stories, pantheistic, stories marvellous and
mystic,
Did they write, until the waters seemed the home of
Mystery ;
Broad Pacific and Atlantic, these were names un-
known-romantic
Stanzas told, in metre frantic, of one sea which was
the whole.
And the people read and wondered, till their reason
tripped and blundered,
And they took for truth the gleamings of each simple
poet’s soul!
Far along the path of ages they have trekked in easy
stages,
All the vaporings and visions of the long-forgotten
clay;
We have heard their voices trolling, through the aeons,
soul-controlling;
We have locked the Past’s grim records in the
archives of To-day—
Of the “tempest” and its “howling,” and the “thun-
der’s muffled growling,”
And, the “sky in anger scowling,” Noah saw from
out the Ark ;
And the “Ocean for my pillow,” and. the “sea-mew”
and the “billow”:
They were shipped from “Port Oblivion” in “the
brave and gallant bark.”
All the old, familiar wheezes, wafted by those “gentle
breezes”—
That have “wafted” hard for ages—reach us still
from near and far;
And a curse I am maturing, solid, subtle and enduring,
For the bard who writeth vainly of the “Sailors’
Guiding Star.”
All the poets of the Ocean, on this Earth, I have a
notion,
Get their “poetry of motion”, from a source of bottled
ale;
And the sea-songs sad or cheery of these writers fat
and beery,
Should be “shivered,” like the “timbers,” by a “howl-
ing, seething gale.”
Yea! the boosted, briny ranter makes my choler rise
instanter,
And my feelings daily fatten each relentless curse of
mine,
For it is a sore affliction to be chased by salty dic-
tion,
And I pray the gods to send me some unfailing
anodyne.
Ship the bards in some old packet, void of boot,
or sock, or jacket,
Let them stand the blessed racket, if they can, for
twenty years;
Let them feed on “pantiles” stony, and on salt-
horse, green and bony,
And their poetry shall perish, in a flood of briny
tears.
N.S.W.
ALBATROSS.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
<.-■
i»if
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion, Kidney Trouble.
PAGE’S INDIAN COMPOUND
May be obtained from all Chemists and Stores, Price
Wholesale Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Or direct from the Manufacturers, Post Free on receipt of price,
PAGE & COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
2/6
per
Bottle.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills Stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Ag'e Doth Not Wither
Nor Custom Stale
Their Infinite Utility/"
WELSBACH
MANTLES.
INVERTED.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
VERTICAL.
hf
Wdsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
380 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
102-4 VICTORIA STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
MY GUARANTEE
Solid Gold Links, Nicely
Chased, Strong- Chains,
12/6.
In buying your Jewellery at my
Store you take no chances,
because I guarantee every article
I sell to be exactly as represented.
I pay postage on all orders, and
will willingly refund money in
any case of dissatisfaction.
1093.
Solid Gold Links, Hand En-
graved, Extra Heavy,
17/6.
Solid Gold Locket,
Richly Chased,
19/6.
18ct. Gold, ser, with
5 Diamonds,
*3/15/-
MY NEW REVISED CATALOGUE WILL
SAVE YOU MONEY.
WRITE FOR A COPY.
g>g*«Sgg
M
TS.HI
Solid Gold Expanding Bracelet Watch Bangle. The
Watch is a perfect timekeeper, and fully guaranteed.
Exceptional Value,
£.3/15/-
Solid Gold Heart, set
with 2 Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire,
11/0.
18ct. Gold, set with
3 Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£O/0/-
JOE DAVIS,
The Money-Saving Jeweller,
26 Park Street, Sydney
One Door from Pitt Street.
ABDULLA
CIGARETTES.
In Cigarette fame
“ ABDULLA’S ” the name.
DAIBETYiCT."
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA
dh
Closed-in Cars
For Winter Weather.
IN the cold, wet Winter Weather you want a car that is snug and comfortable,
and you want it strong and well made to stand the rack and wrench of
skidding and slipping on wet, greasy roads.
We have models in stock that are perfect for ease and comfort, are
powerful and reliable, and strong enough to stand the test of driving on the
worst of roads.
DAIMLER,
22=H.P. Landaulette (Blue),
15 = H.P. Landaulette (Green),
15=H.P. Limousine (Green).
Delaunay-Bdleville, Austin, F.N.
We are also Sole Agents for
*>l A I) . . (for the roughest and wettest
Schacht Motor Btigjjy «f CO unt ry r^s) ,
Halley Motor Lorry.
Call and inspect models now in stock , or write for Illustrated Catalogues.
DALGETY <& CO. LTD.
Motor Garage, 136=138 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1641.
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1911.
PiUCK CD.
CONJURERS AND SPIRITS.
The Principal Performer (showing a few “parlor tricks” to Wade, Storey and co.): “Dear me, how your shirt has shrunk!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I’er Annum . . . . £ 1 6 0
Half-yearly .. . . . . 0 13 6
Quarterly .. . . . . 0 7 0
Ily sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every iveel: for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters {with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. ‘‘The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for ‘‘copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or newspaper Clippings.
.-1 ll communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch {wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at MG V er doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High llolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, .'ilil Hastings Street;
Norman, Capl’ and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.—lsserlis A., Seattle , Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Booh and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Biewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
Ci s /ain. x U/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage flc-.tes.
Single Copies. The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) :—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand. Fiji, Biitish New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, lOoz. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and B§oz. to
tOoz., 21d; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d; elsewhere, ioz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1911.
TAKING DOWN THE DECORATIONS.
The Coronation is over, the Crown is put
away, the bottle of oil has been corked up,
and the last of the decorations has been
taken down. The tinsel (a little worn
with wind and weather), the flags (a trifle
bedraggled), the electric wires and the tin
casings (something the worse for wear) have
been stored for possible future use; and the
Royal portraits which graced the shop win-
dows have given place to other advertising
devices. The people cannot jubilate forever ;
and it is recognised od all sides that a
mei'ely ornamental display hampers the or-
dinary round of a work-a-day world. A
nation must earn its living; and the decora-
tions must come down to make way for the
butcher’s cart and the baker’s basket. “God
Save the King” is an occasional song used
to indicate the time when hats and over-
coats should he looked for; hut the cheerful
vocal discord of the morning Milk oh ! is
of far more permanent importance, just as
the legend telling us that John Smith sells
Australian pickles is of infinitely more en-
during value than the six yards ot cheap,
ported cotton which for a few days obscuied
the regular trade sign. Pageantry and dis-
play have little real part in a nations Me.
People go to see the lights, trappings and
music because there is something out of the
common to be seen, but they do not worry
over the purpose or meaning of the display ;
and the King is not a whit more really
King because the plumber and tinsmith used
their best skill in putting a gauciy and in-
jurious-looking crown on a public building
during a Coronation week. The decorations
have come down, and the purpose for which
they were set up becomes more and more
obscure.
Once the political edifice was one vast
decoration. There were crowns and coronets
plastered in every available place. Coats
of arms were of vastly greater importance
than any other kind of clothing; flags were
held in higher esteem than bread; and a
gorgeous pageant, interspersed with turns of
fierce fighting, filled up the days and nights
of all the men and women who really
counted. The other men and women fed,
clothed and housed the important ones, and
supplied the ready cash for the royal or
ducal entertainment. If discontent stirred
among them, and they demanded rights or
called for better conditions, their masters
provided a public show of lavish magnifi-
cence ; if they cried aloud with hunger, the
great ones of the earth allowed them to look
through the barriers at a glittering panto-
mime, set with ermine and velvet, or paraded
in military pomp before their eyes. Wealth
of barbaric ornament w r as spread on every
side, and splendid titles rolled on the lips
of heralds and court flunkeys. Nearly
everything that stands out on the pages of
popular history was in the nature of de-
coration. Orders of knighthood, ranks of
the peerage, chambers of alleged legislature,
embassies, dignities of the Church, and even
the very beheadings, crusades, wars and
international intrigues, were the many-col-
ored embroidery thrown over the dull, grey,
hopeless monotony of the real mediaeval life.
Tite whole art of politics was to keep the
colors bright on the decorations, and make
them as dazzling and blinding as possible.
* * * *
The long story of the struggle for freedom
in Europe is merely the record of how some
of the ancient decorations were taken down.
The man on the ladder, with the claw-ham-
mer and pincers, removing the emblems of
“loyalty,” is himself an emblem of those who
have for centuries battled for the people’s
rights. Their tool was mostly the political
claw-hammer, and their business the removal
of nails which fastened the huge, tawdry
ornaments of the past on the living bodies of
the nations. That which was of use and
purpose must remain; that which was mere
tinsel and colored paper must come down.
The masquerade of kings, dukes and other
noble persons which had filled centuries with
radiant riot was blocking the road for the
grocer’s basket and the coal waggon. At
Runnimede John signed his name to an
order for taking down some of the gilded ob-
structions ; at Naseby the Ironsides chopped
away some more with their swords as they
dashed in on the flanks of Prince Rupert's
tired horses; the bullets at Bunker’s Hill
riddled quite a number of fanciful devices
which were interfering with progress ; and
the Reign of Terror, with its surging red
flood drawn from the veins of some of the
most ornamental persons in France, washed
away a host of shining things which, if res-
cued, might have set up all the pantomimes
of the world in perpetual business. So the
work of removing the decorations has gone
on. The plain little man in the bell-topper
and scanty grey whiskers, who is jostled by
the blatant bookmaker with a pound of gold
hanging across his abdomen, is the modern
representation of the glorious individual who
once walked in cloth of gold and carried the
pride of a Lucifer in his jewelled sword-
hilt. Nevertheless, some decorations re-
main, toned down in color certainly, but
numerous still, and the job of taking them
down is likely to keep Europe busy for some
time to come.
* * * *
Australia, for all her distance from the
older lands, began her development too early
to be wholly free from the decorative tradi-
tions of the past. Almost before she had
constructed a road, or put a roof upon a
public building, she began to cumber her
path with meretricious toys and emblematic
designs. To-day the country from Cape
York to the Leeuwin is filled with Gov-
ernors, Governors’ flunkeys, Legislative
Councillors, Mayors—either Lorded or plain
- —Aldermen, Shire Councillors, and other
more or less beautiful persons. Most of
these, being quite useless and exceedingly
costly, must be accounted for on the score
that they are intended to be decorative.
Truth to tell, they are not very ornamental
(the alleged decorations seldom are) ; but
thev can on occasion at least shine in varied
and extensive rhetoric. It is their delight, in
rolling periods, with or without the doubtful
aspirate, to extol the decorations of the older
days, of which they feel that they them-
selves form a belated but not inglorious
part. In Australia, as elsewhere, these de-
corations must come down, to make room
for the people who have real work to do.
The printed calico which, a fortnight ago,
hid the trade sign, is an emblem of all the
cumbering and unnecessary institutions
which stand in the path of a nation’s pro-
gress. As no reasonable argument can be
advanced in favor of peroetually hanging
bits of tawdry, striped cloth to cover John
Smith’s intimation that he .sells pigs’ feet,
so there is no defence to be set up for the ob-
trusion of the cocked hats of six State Gov-
ernors between those States and the actual
and serious work in w-hich they are engaged.
The ancient formalities of Parliament —the
mace, the Speaker’s wig, Black Rod. the
constant bobbing to the Chair, and all the
irritating process of repetition and dull,
droning inanity which accompanies the pas-
sage of a Bill—are in the same case. Sys-
tem and order are necessary, but there is no
reason why the old, portentous, time-wasting
forms which did duty in the fourteenth cen-
tury should remain to block the Parlia-
mentary pathway to-day. We might as well
re-introduce trial by ordeal, or insist that
our Australian army should be recruited
according to the methods in vogue under the
Feudal System. Australia has large work
to do, and asks for elbow room in which to
do it; and so she must reach for the claw-
hammer. A nation can have no use for a
triumphal arch which marks no triumph, or
for a legislative body which frames no
worthy legislation. Our national building
is still in process of construction, and the
decorations which overlie the simple lines
of the architectural design are not merely
tawdry, hut are injurious in that they
hamper the free use of mallet and trowel.
In the interests of good, sound, enduring
work, the decorations must come down.
AUSTRALIA’S TARIFF, WHICH IS
CHIEFLY HELPFUL TO JAPAN.
It is a hoary truism that a nation’s pros-
perity, as well as its ultimate security, rests
on production. Constantinople, Venice, Rome,
and a dozen other great States and cities, tried
to live by trading alone, and went down. Un-
der modern conditions there is only one way
in which a new country can achieve manu-
factures, and that is by high Protection.
Australia was born a Cobdenite; yet so
clearly do the electors see the need for as-
piring to be something more than a sheep-
walk and a cow-run, that the Australian
Freetrade party has, officially speaking, died,
and no political candidate dares to exploit
the fiscal gags that did service a quarter of
a century ago. The voice of the nation has
for years past been crying for a tariff that
will really protect; but, owing to a number
of causes, its politicians have doggedly re-
mained deaf. The importing interests are
still strong, financially and otherwise, in the
cities; three-fourths of the daily papers,
though they no longer barrack openly for
free imports, fight as a matter of course
against every move in the direction of raised
duties; representatives of the oversea con-
cerns which dump their goods here are
tireless in their efforts to keep the. trade
door ajar; and the Australian Parliament
has members on both sides of the political
fence who are painfully amenable to the re-
presentations of these lobbying wire-pullers.
A lesson in the way in which the Freetrade
crowd has contrived so far to defeat the
wishes of the people may be learned from
any annual statement of Customs. Thougli
this country supplies the world with wool, it
imports annually over £2,000,000 a year of
woollen piece-goods alone; and the bill for
imported apparel runs to over £14,500,000.
The country grows sound wines, and its
beers are at least as good as those of the
United States. Yet during last year it im-
ported so much ales and other alcoholic
goods that it paid duty amounting to
£2,541,152. Also, it imported over three
and a-haif millions’ worth of iron in bars,
sheets, and other forms, and such vast quan-
tities of machinery that a million and a
quarter was collected in duty. The total
Customs receipts were £10,440,936. That
represents an increase of just on a million
sterling over the receipts of the previous
year, when more goods were imported
than during any previous 12 months in the
country’s history.
Obviously there is something rotten about
an allegedly protective tariff which, after 10
years, and despite revision, allows the coun-
try to put up a lifetime’s record in the mat-
ter of Customs receipts. The principal
reason why Australia’s tariff is of little
more value than a burst umbrella in a rain-
storm, is that it is too low in regard to
almost every item on the schedule. The
piano-manufacturing industry will serve to
point a fiscal moral as well as any other.
The present duty on imported pianos is 20
per cent., as against 4» per cent, in America
and 40 per cent, in Japan—a country where
skilled labor offers freely at Is. a day. An
idea of the sort of service a 20 per cent, duty
is to this industry may be gained from the
following Customs returns, relating to the
imports of pianos :
Number. Value.
1908 .. 10,404 .. £242,637
1909 . . 11,556 .. 259,618
1910 . . 14,068 . . 335,675
The big Beale factory, at Annandale
(N.S.W.), is one of many nationally-valu-
able concerns which are being hit by the
same insane system that is driving the Eng-
lish manufacturer out of the business. For
years Beale’s have been giving regular em-
ployment to over 300 artisans and crafts-
men ; also to a small army of laborers and
carters. Outside the factory there are tim-
ber-cutters and carters working in the bush,
and there are clerks, shop-hands, etc., all
over Australia. One way and another prob-
ably 3000 Australians depend on this busi-
ness for a livelihood. And obviously, in
view of the rapid increase in imported
goods, they are liable to find their means of
livelihood lost. The Australian, rightly,
insists on high wages; and, since lie cannot
insist upon his trade rival also paying high
wages, his one hope is in a high tariff, since
that alone is in his own hands. Three-
fourths of the imported pianos come from
Germany; and the average earnings in the
musical instrument-making trade's of that
country, according to British Board of Trade
returns, is 28s. 2d. for 54 hours’ work —
equal to 245. lid. for 48 hours. The Aus-
tralian workman, who has known the benefits
of Arbitration awards, would have no use
for a wage like that.
* * * *
The Japanese wage-rates are not more
than one-fourth the German, which is to say
they are about one-tenth of those paid in the
Commonwealth. This fact, added to Japan’s
40 per cent, duty, is shortly going to render
the Jap as dangerous a rival to the Aus-
tralian piano-manufacturer as he already
is to the far better-protected Australian fur-
niture-manufacturer. The demand for Euro-
pean musical instruments is fast increasing
amongst these most imitative people. There
are already a dozen factories at work in
Japan, supplying that demand, and with the
feeble barrier of a 20 per cent, duty, the
Australian market will get the surplus stock
of those factories. The calamity may not
injure the established Australian music con-
cerns. The only effect may be to transform
them from manufacturing into importing
houses. Indeed, that process is already to be
seen at work in other directions. Till re-
cently, for example, thousands of locally-
made sewing machines were sold in Aus-
tralia, some patented parts only being im-
ported. A fool-body of legislators placed
duties on parts when imported separately,
but they let the completed articles in free.
Consequently, no sewing machines are now
being made in the Commonwealth, and the
country is flooded with foreign-made goods
which sell at an inordinately high rate. In
a land like this, whose existence may depend
in a few years’ time on the possession of a
decent-sized white population, a system that
encourages importing, which employs tens,
as against manufacturing, which employs
hundreds, is plain insanity.
* * * *
It is not the wish of the Australian people
that this state of things should prevail. Nine
out of ten citizens are fully alive to the
perilous need of population. Opposition to
universal service and an Australian navy is
so utterly dead that last week the Sydney
daily which two years ago was most acid
on the local Defence question implored the
Commonwealth to “employ the next 10 years
in building up her defensive strength with
unremitting diligence.” It will be granted
that the first essential of defensive strength
is numbers—the material out of which the
“big battalions” are formed. .Nothing is
surer than that, if Australia's’population
continues to linger in the vicinity of five
millions, part or all of the continent must pass
into other hands, and colored ones at that.
The nation’s very first concern is to averi
that horror. The experience of nearly half a
century proves that immigration societies
and immigration propaganda work do no-
thing worth talking about to attract large
numbers to these or any other parts.
The true prosperity which goes with
settled industries is the only effective lure,
as America and Canada have learned since
they went in for whole-hog Protection. Yet,
year by year, Australia, which wants settled
industries and the immigrants that flock to
them as badly almost as it wants the air, is
content to dodder along importing millions of
pounds’ worth of goods which it might be
making itself; or, in other words, it is satis-
fied to go on supporting an arniy of poten-
tial invaders where it might be giving em-
ployment to that number of white defenders.
And meanwhile its population remains al-
most stationary, and its brown enemy
crouches expectantly on the mat. The guilt
in this matter has hitherto been mostly with
the politicians. The Smiths and Cooks
on the one hand, and the W. M. Hugheses
and Mahons on the other, have joined in
Parliament in an unsavory alliance to defeat
the popular will. But if they, and others like
them, are allowed to continue indefinitely
emperilling the Commonwealth, and assist-
ing its possible foes with a flagrantly bogus
duty schedule, the blame will shift to the
shoulders of the people themselves. Between
now and next Federal elections every
Australian should put to the candi-
date who is after his vote the blunt
question: “Will you swear, if you are
elected, to go bald-headed and at once
for such a revision of the tariff as will
effectively protect Australian industries?”
If he says “No,” or attempts to hedge, it is
up to the patriot to oppose him as warmly as
though he were Satan himself. As a mat-
ter of fact, the Australian politician who
fights for the importing cause in the present
state of world politics, is the Devil, or
nothing.
AUSTRALIA, UNLIMITED.
E. J. Brady issues a prospectus:—
When I went to school in the Bush 30 years ago
there were several maps hanging on the walls. One
of them was the map of Australia. I cannot re-
member that we specialised on this map ; it came in
casually with the geography lessons, along with the
other continents. We took more interest in Africa;
there were lions there, and mummies, and a great
desert. Our early educational system evidently did
not regard patriotic stimulus as essential to the
development of the callow Australian mind. I ques-
tion if its true value has yet been realised.
I was taken from my Bush school and enrolled
among the scholars of the Peabody Institute in Wash-
ington, U.S.A. I found that the American system
specialised on the geography of the United States,
and devoted scanty attention to Australia. No-
body knew much about Australia. My school-
mates were surprised because I wasn’t black.
My own knowledge of the country I had left was
not . very great, so I drew largely on imagination.
I was in a minority of one in that school, and 1
had to hold Australia’s end up. But they
taught me one thing in America which I have
never forgotten; they taught- me how strong national
sentiment can he made by patriotic education.
There was no time for pessimism when it came to
the United States. They had an arid West, but they
guessed they would turn it into good country by-and-
bye. They have done so. American enterprise was
capable of dealing with minor propositions such as
deserts. Later on, American enterprise came over
here and showed the way at Mildura. American
enterprise has its faults, but we could do with
some of its healthy optimism in this country.
Up to 10 years ago I was doubtful about Aus-
tralia ; I had lived too long in Sydney, then the
centre of the anti-Australian sentiment. About that
time I began to study this continent at first hand,
to examine its possibilities for myself, to see with
my own eyes, to think with my own brains.
.1 fitted up a covered waggon and went west of
Sydney into the Wheat Belt. I saw thousands of
acres covered with yellow grain. I crossed millions
of acres capable of similar results. I said: “Aus-
tralia need not trouble herself about the bread supply;
she can grow flour for a hundred millions, and spare
wheat enough for export as well.”
I went out of the Wheat Belt into the Sheep
Country. I saw that Australia was capable of grow-
ing more than enough wool to clothe a hundred mil-
lion people, and still have wool to send away to
other countries. I said: “This question of fine
fabrics and fresh mutton need not trouble us. No
Australian woman will have to abbreviate her skirts
because of a shortage of woollen material; no Aus-
tralian need send abroad for his morning chop. With
anything like an equitable distribution we can all
have good clothes to wear, and roast lamb at regular
intervals —-with mint sauce.”
When I went out of the Sheep Country into the
Cattle Lands, I saw where the national beef problem
had been already solved by beneficent Nature. The
continent would grow beef —good, juicy, Australian
beef, with a nice succulent edge of fat around it; and
the by-products—hides for the leather, and horns for
my lady’s back-hair comb —came in along with it.
How much beef for use and surplus for export the
continent was capable of producing, I left to statis-
ticians. I saw that enough could be raised to meet
the requirements of a hundred million local inhabi-
tants, anyhow.
I came upon iron ore, which a visiting expert
informed me ought to be supplying all Australia with
suspension bridges, and boiler plates, and gun barrels,
and all the thousand manufactured articles of modern
life. He told me there were about 40 known deposits
of a similar capacity spread over Australia and Tas-
mania. I said: “What would be the output of these
iron mines if they were all working? Do you think
they would turn out enough ore to supply the needs
of a hundred million people?” “Let ’em have the
blast-furnaced chance!” the expert replied. “As far
as iron is concerned, Australia, in my opinion,
possesses the best ores in the world, and the largest
quantities of them; and you can take it from me that
iron, not gold, is the bed-rock metal on which any
country’s greatness is based. The sooner this con-
tinent gets down to that fact, the better for its
future as a white man’s country.”
The expert travelled some way with me. We went
through diamond country, and incidentally he ob-
served that precious stones —in which he took little
stock —were plentiful in many parts of this continent.
He was more concerned with useful metals. I heard
from him in the tin district of Inverell. He was
enthusiastic about Australian copper and tin; and
what he said I verified by travel and investigation.
So 1 have now no fear that Australia will suffer a
shortage of gold, copper, lead, tin, iron, or any of


the other metals that are necessary to complete
national development. As for coal, the already-
proved fields are sufficient for our requirements for
centuries to come.
I drove —and when I didn’t drive I floated —through
hundreds of miles of forests. Once I rather despised
the homely gum-tree. Nowadays I feel inclined to
take my hat off to it. I appreciate its worth and
value. The durability and adaptability of Australian
timbers are proved. These timbers exist in enormous
quantities, and are diffused over wide areas. They
form an important item in our national stock-taking.
We have abundance for local requirements, and vast
quantities to sell to less-fortunate neighbors. In-
telligent Forestry Departments are seeing to it
already that afforestation is carried out as a pro-
vision for the future.
I descended upon tropical Australia —a committee
of inquiry composed of one. Here I got a new con-
ception of my native land. I saw sugar, arrowroot,
rice, coffee, spices, cocoanuts, dates, bananas, man-
goes and custard-apples growing as plentifully as I
had seen apples and oranges growing elsewhere. Then
the full significance of Australian climates came home
to me. I realised that the gooseberry and the
granadillo are both products of this continent; that
damsons or dates are equally possible. For tobacco,
cotton, or tea, we need not go abroad if we choose
to supply ourselves.
I wandered through dairying districts. Hills that
had once been regarded as of no value except for the
native cedar and pine that grow upon them were
dotted with fat dairy cattle, up to their knees in rich
pasturage. I looked on the Australian cow with a
respect born of Knowledge newly acquired; I realised
her potentialities, and saw where her wealth-producing
functions could be indefinitely extended.
“By Cape York and Cape Howe”! I said, “but
there will be no lack of fresh milk for that priceless
immigrant, the Australian infant, nor of butter for
the Australian breakfast-table, nor of cream, nor of
cheese.”
It was a land flowing with milk, where the honey
was good, and the molasses of the best quality.
I drove through districts where vineyards flourished,
and red and white wines lay in the cellars. I saw
potato crops, and maize crops, and onion crops, crops
of almost everything that is grown in any part of
the world; I saw chicory growing, and sandalwood,
and I bought 18 fine pineapples for a shilling.
I sampled Australian-distilled rum, and quenched
my thirst with Australian-brewed beer.
My journey ended far north of the Tropic of Capri-
corn. It was the best and pleasantest lesson I ever
had. It taught me what every Australian youth
should learn at school —that Australia is the richest
and best country on earth; that it holds within its
four corners all the potentialities of a supreme nation-
hood, the most powerful, advanced, humane and en-
lightened the world has ever seen; and it should be
the dream and ambition of every native-born to help
that ideal of Nationhood to become a living historical
fact. If that spirit were inculcated into the minds
of Australian youth in every bark-roofed, iron-
roofed, tile-roofed academy beneath the south-
ern skies; if it were made the dominant
note of our politics, State, Federal and muni-
cipal ; if it were emphasised on every platform,
and admitted in every pulpit; if the leaders of this
young nation would quit the petty considerations
that obscure the larger national issues, in 50 years
Australia would do what Japan has done since she
made up her mind to become a powerful nation.
I am over 40 years of age. I have waited and
watched for 25 years to see my native country wake
up. I have waited to see the development of a dis-
tinctive national sentiment such as I found as a
schoolboy in America. Australia is a better country
than America; it is the best, the richest, the fairest
land on earth, but it has not yet in spirit joined the
march of nations. The imagination of her rulers
must be widened. Continental conceptions must re-
place parochial considerations. A general enthusiasm
for all that is Australian —and best —must be culti-
vated. Sectarianism must be choked, self-interest
repressed, the worship of false gods and shoddy idols
cease. Above all, the empty spaces must be filled.
If we dared to emulate, we might cease to dread
Japan. She has demonstrated what a country can
do in a comparatively few years, with a strong public
spirit and a determination to achieve. Japan is a
mere group of islands. Australia is a vast continent
which for over a hundred years has been content to
remain as an outpost of European civilisation. It
cannot be expected that the next 50 years will be a
repetition of the last. In the next 50 years Aus-
tralia will have to prove herself. Her strength must
be developed from within, not from without.
The opportunity for a beginning is here. The
time is now.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Law-deriding Class.
The most openly lawless class in Australia,
if one may judge by its chosen representa-
tives, is that which for years has claimed the
title “law-abiding.” Last week a N. S. Wales
M.L.C. named Wetherspoon publicly an-
nounced that if, as a result of rural workers
being included in Minister Beeby’s Indus-
trial Bill, a Grown official attempts to “in-
terfere” with the Wetherspoon estate, he
(Wetherspoon, M.L.C.) will chase that
official with a gun. During the Referenda
campaign Bruce Smith solemnly warned
the electors that there would be a bloody
revolution if the cause of Monopoly was de-
feated ; and he inferred that he would be in
the gore up to the knees. Waddell
(N.S.W.’s tragically-incompetent ex-Treas-
urer, who secured a gleam of cheap limelight
the other day by libelling a muzzled Federal
Judge) joined with Smith in threatening
civil war if the Referenda voting went
against “Liberalism.” When the fight in
connection with the Federal Capital site
was at its height, prominent solicitors and
such-like stated they would “stir up a
secession movement, with all its attendant
bloodshed,” if the district which a Commis-
sioner, appointed by their own State, had
declared to be the most suitable was selected
by the Australian Parliament. Joseph
Carruthers’s wire-stealing feat evoked
deafening cheers in the importing press and
other Anti-Labor circles. And, as a
final instance, at the time of writing
that form of insulting behavior which
is called Orangeism is in full swing.
Twenty-five per cent, of the inhabi-
tants of the Commonwealth are being mad-
dened, to no earthly purpose ; and the authors
of all this rage and grief are chiefly self-
righteous purveyors of religious bellow-
drama, who would sizzle with fury if one
hinted to them that they were common dis-
turbers of the peace. It suggests, among
other things, that in Australia our “upper
classes” are, in a grotesque sort of way, re-
verting to type. Originally the very rich
enjoyed what might almost be termed a
corner in deeds of violence. The poor might
pilfer and cheat furtively, conscious the
while that detection would mean a horrible
death, but they rarely aspired higher, in a
criminal manner of speaking. Assassina-
tion ; the fomenting of revolutions ; big, un-
abashed steals; the stirring up ot popu .ui
frenzy on a large scale —these were the
specialties of the rich, whether they hap-
pened to be Old Roman nobles, or Feudal
castle-owners, or members of princely Italian
houses. There are obvious differences between
these old-time swashbucklers and the rutile
suburban lawyers and clerics who yell fight
and slaughter in our midst to-day. But though
there is more iow comedy than tragedy about
these modern stirrers-up of strife, they are
capable of doing considerable damage if they
ale allowed to blither unchecked. Stern
measures (say a Bill imposing penal servi-
tude on all who incite the public to blood-
shed) would probably discourage politicians
like J. Wetherspoon, M.L.C., Bruce
Smith M.11.R., Waddell, M.L. A., etc.,
from behaving periodically like crosses be-
tween Penny Dreadful heroes and Pyrmont
larrikins.
The Failure to Grow Cotton and Other
Articles.
A recent Customs return, showing the
bounties paid by the Federal Government on
Australian products during the first three
quarters of last financial year, should set
patriotic Australians thinking. The items
were: —
Raw Products: Ginned cotton, £9l; flaxen hemp,
£67- sisal hemp, £112; oil from cotton seed, £39 ;
coffee, £112; tobacco leaf, £9B; dried fruits, £164;
combed wool tops, £696. .
Manufactures: Pig iron, £18,451; puddled iron,
£1917; steel, £1725; galvanised sheet-iron, £121;
wire-netting, from imported wire, £4149.
In none of the years since the bonuses were
offered have the claims been anywhere near
the amounts available. Thus:—
Amount Available. Amount Paid.
1907- .. £46,000 .. £1,107
1908- .. 97,000 .. 5,730
1909- .. 151,000 .. 38,202
1910- (three „ „„
quarters) •• 27,192
As the Bounties on Produce Act expires
next July, and as the attempt to foster the
production of these raw products has been a
much worse failure than that to encourage
the production of iron and steel, the I ed-
eral Government will have to consider and
decide just what it is prepared to do. See-
ing that the persuasive method has failed so
lamentably, the coercive might have more
effect. One way would be to impose an
import duty, so nicely adjusted _ that
it would discourage the importation of
the raw material, while even more
effectually hampering the importation of the
manufactured article. Also it should be
graduated so carefully that, while the im-
post would be moderate at first, its full
effect would be felt when the Australian
grower had had a reasonable time in which
to supply the demand. Or an increase of
the bonuses, together with an assurance of
their extension over a longer term, might
produce the effect desired. A man is hardly
likely to go into coffee-planting, for instance,
when he knows that the bonus may be shut
off at the end of live years, leaving him to
compete against the cheap labor of niggers
and such. So with cotton, hemp, and to-
bacco. Clearly, something has to be done.
Cotton-growing is just as feasible as sugar-
growing, and ought to be about three
more valuable; but it will not be started by
offering a bonus that may he chopped off
short in five years, just when the grower has
begun to feel his feet.
+
When the Australian Parliament imposed
its progressive land tax, one of the most
scandalous examples in the way of land mon-
opoly cited was the old Van Diemen’s Land
Co., which, for over half a century, had been
blocking land settlement in Tasmania.
The tax has not been in existence a year
yet; but it has already shifted this
dog out of his manger. A recent
cable announces that a Melbourne syndicate
has bought all the land —330,000 acres —for
subdivision. At the end of May last the
company held its annual meeting at London ;
and, on that occasion the chairman handed
out the following free testimonial to the
Labor party :
We much regret the land taxation recently brought in
by the Labor party in the Commonwealth Parliament.
. . . If the Act is ruled constitutional, it is certainly
going to have a serious effect upon our revenue, as
the extra taxation would amount to about £lO,OOO
per annum. When this legislation was first intro-
duced we saw at once that if it became law it would
be necessary to arrange for a more rapid development
of our estates.
This is a testimonial that the party should
frame and hang in a prominent place. An
Australian Fat chairman would have been
far too wily to give the show away in such
a fashion.
Hall Jon-es, Maoriland’s High Commis-
sioner in London, will shortly scratch his
name off the iront door and retire. So far
nobody has been named as his successor,
and, at latest, lou Ward was busy an-
nouncing that the appointment had been
hung up till his return to the Loan Land.
The suspicion that lousepii has an idea of
collecting the job for himself certainly
hasn’t been laid out by another denial on
his part of any such intention. lousepii
has protested too much about that
billet since he arrived in London. May-
hap the long voyage to Britain gave him
time to reflect that things are not so well
with him in M.L. as they appeared when
he looked at them from the end of a hundred
banquet tables, and listened to the loud
cheers that rose as the loan-built bridge was
declared open. Perhaps, too, the cold goods
handed to him by the Imperial Conference
have given him that political indigestion
which has led better men to lay up. Any-
how’, it is persistently stated that Attorney-
General Findlay, M.L.C., is going to make
another attempt to win a seat in the Repre-
sentatives at the November elections, and
the exact direction of Findlay’s ambition
is well known. In any case a reconstructed
Ministry cannot be far off; the wonder is
that the party has stood the present rattle-
trap concern so long. And when the recon-
struction starts, the proceedings are likely
to be far more strenuous than they have
been in M.L. politics since Seddon inaugur-
ated the system of knocking Cabinets to-
gether with a waddy. Also, M.L. is begin-
ning to have gloomy doubts of the borrow-
and-boom policy, and when it finally con-
cludes, as it will sooner or later, that Bust
is the next item on the programme, some-
thing extremely unpleasant will happen to
lou. Labor, meanwhile, is rapidly growing
out of the habit of taking for granted the
great advantages which the Liberals glow-
ingly explain are the rewards for wliole-hog
support. There have been advantages, but
nowadays they arrive with about the same
infrequency as angels’ visits; and at any
time in M.L. the advantages passed on to
Labor were light-weight compared with
the advantages given the commercial and
landed classes. Altogether there are all the
signs of a revolt against the political scheme
of the past 20 years, and. when it arrives,
London wall be a good place for lousepii
Ward to view it from.
«
Modern instances from a N.S.W. school-
teacher’s experiences, printed now so that
Wade and his dreadful party may be able
to prove that there is no sweating in the
country, and that any “interference” with
the man on the land is quite uncalled for: —
No. I.—Parent believes in “teaching his. child to
work,” so the writer has not seen him at school for
11 weeks. Father has been teaching him to pull
down trees, with the aid of a bullock team. Boy’s
age, 12 years.
No. 2.—Parent compels his lad to trap enough
rabbits to shoe the family. This lad usually arrives
SC J) 00 ( an .v old time at all, very often not at
all. Boy s age, 12 years.
-<o 3.—-Parent boasts that one night’s trapping
would pay the fine for his child’s continued non'-
attendance. Boy’s age, 10 years.
No. 4.—Parent was so anx ; ous to start his lad tc
work that he handed in the lad’s resignation at 13
years 11 months. He explained that he was not
quite sure of the lad’s birthday, but would take him
away to make sure that he wasn’t giving him a
moment’s more schooling than necessary. That lait
is now rabbiting.
Every year the Education Department com-
plains of the poor results got in the schools
in the Cow utstricts. I’erry, au ex-Minister
for Public Instruction, must know why the
results are poor; yet, supporting Wade the
other day, he said :
I think it is a good thing for the children that
they should be taught to work, and they are workbw
for themselves when working for their parents.
What hope has a teacher or an inspector got
of improving matters when an ex-Minister
pats the real delinquents on the back, and
says: “Quite right—you're doing quite
right’ ? And what an appalling thing the
party system of government proves itself to
be when it drives a Perry, or anybody else
who knows the facts, to set himself up in
defence of this bowelless slavery, simply be-
cause the other political crowd shows a dis-
position to wipe it out!
Tite protest of Bill :
Last week the Ma State Government carted about
200 alleged delegates of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association conference to see the Burrinjuck dam.
The State —that is, plain Bill and Tom- —provided
sleeping berths for all hands. The Government—
or, rather, Bill and Tom —likewise fed this crowd.
Feed alone ran into the bigger part of £IOO, with-
out extras. A trainload of sleepers must have cost
the State — Bill and Ton again—several hundreds.
Why this waste of public money? Considering that
the same crowd spent over a week blackguarding the
same Government, it looks very like a case of loath-
some grovelling. As an advertising dodge, the busi-
ness was not worth five bob. The farmers that were
carted up are all landowners —and a narrow, conser-
vative, ignorant type at that. They are not the
class of men that will make the irrigation scheme
“good.” Neither will they have any influence on
the type of men who will make it good. The same
money expended in taking up a trainload of subur-
banites, with an eye turned longingly to the soil,
or a selected crowd of working-men representatives,
would have been infinitely more sensible. That, of
course, would have at once been severely censured by
the daily press as corrupt and immoral. Another
bad feature is that it is said that several of the
deadheads were not even delegates, and had no right,
to be present. For that matter, no one had any
right. The picnic was “worked” by friends, and a
complaisant Government licked the hand that had
been pulling its nose. Surely a Labor Government
might be expected to turn down this deadhead busi-
ness instead of encouraging it so grossly and inex-
cusably.
♦
Thus Professor Hart, of Harvard (U.S.)
University, iu his book, “The Obvious
Orient” :
The really pressing question of English dominion
in the East is whether she can hold on in case of
European war, when the attempt would be made
to break off some of the British territories. Except
Aden, which is a first-class fortress, and Hongkong,
which has some batteries, not a single British Asiatic
port can protect itself; it all depends on the navy
and— unless Australia builds a fleet —that means a
navy built in England, sent from England, coaled as
far as Aden from England, and reinforced from Eng-
land. Every captain of the North German Lloyd
carries sealed orders, to be opened if war breaks
out; and somewhere —probably at Tsintan—are sup-
plies of guns and ammunition for their ships.
In other words, British dominion in the
East must rest largely upon the existence of
a powerful Australian navy. Nevertheless,
the blind men or the toadies who fought and
still fight against an Australian navy called
themselves Imperialists! In some times, in-
stead of being accepted as patriots, they
would have stood a much better chance of
being shot for traitors who were really try-
ing to give their beloved nigger a chance to
get back his own and a bit more to boot
♦
“Tag” : I picked up recently, on the front
step, a book dropped by the 12-year-old
school-girl next door. Its title is “A School
Treasury of English Literature (Part I.),
selected by Walter Murdoch, M.A.” It is
published by Lothian, of Melbourne, but
printed in England. It is made up exclu-
sively of extracts from the works of English
and American poets and writers. Not one
single line is included from the works of
any Australian writer, living or dead;
yet at the back of this book of 21S
solid pages I find a sheaf of the same
publisher’s advertisements, including “Dainty
Editions of the Best Australian Poets,” in
which are listed Gordon’s “Sea Spray and
Smoke Drift,” Kendall’s Poems, O’Dowd's
Poems, “Busliland Ballads,” by E. J.
Brady, and other publications. The man
who collated this School Treasury claims, I
believe, to be an Australian; and the book,
although printed in England, is issued by an
Australian publisher, and is used in Aus-
tralian schools! On inquiry I find that
the various State Departments of Education,
and the teachers and trainers of Australian
youth generally, are persistently preserving
a “conspiracy of silence” as regards Austra-
lian Literature. Does this help to make
patriots? Is it the way to imbue the minds
of Young Australia with the idea that Aus-
tralia is a country worth working or fighting
for t There are plenty of patriotic Austra-
lian songmakers, and not a few good descrip-
tive writers, passages from whose works
ought to be, and some day will be, included
in every Australian school book.
-— ■
Many, if not most, of the so-called Agricul-
tural Societies of Victoria are telling a
doleful tale of the lack of support they get
from farmers; and several of them, after in-
specting their overdrafts, are considering
the question of shutting up shop. Before do-
ing so, however, they are making a final
appeal to the local public and the farmers,
with a side-glance at the Treasury. The
truth is that the farmers and the public
which isn’t a farmer, have dropped to the
fact that very few agricultural shows have
any educational value at all; and if it were
not for the circus and sporting element
the high jumping, hunting and trotting
events —not one of them would draw a crowd
big enough to pay the gate-keepers’ wages.
The societies are usually bossed by men
who scarcely know a cow from a Berkshire
boar, and whose real object is to push the
Fatman along in politics. On the approach
of every election or by-election, or when an
important Bill is before Parliament, they
therefore meet and, in the name of the
farmers, pass resolutions against democratic
measures and proposals. During the Ref-
erenda campaign they spent quite a lot or
money in getting speakers, hiring halls and
so on, in ‘ the interests of machinery and
other rings, trusts and combines. The pub-
lic is naturally beginning to sniff at all this:
and presently, after knocking off its own
The Farmers’ Vote.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mister Editer, —I’m writin’ in the int’rests
of the farmer,
’Oo, I’ve notised, ’as bin slandered fre-
quent in The Bullyteen.
An’ I ’ope, when you’ve reflected, an’ ’ave
growed a trifle carmer,
You will own ’e ain’t deservin’ of the in-
sults I ’ave seen.
Sir, I ’ave no lit’ry leanin’s, but I tells a
truthful story,
An’, befoar 1 vencher further, I woud ’ave
you understand —
An’ my plain, unvarnished stat’ment will be
backed by any Tory—
That the backbone of our country is the
man upon the land.
’Ence, in speakin’ of the farmer, I am alius
most respec’ful,
For, dispite ’is scurvy treatment, ’e is
stanch ; an’, I may say,
Wot with rabit Socialism, an’ with Guver-
ments neglec’ful,
’E is left to ’ump Matilder in a most dis-
grasful way.
Take the case of farmer Jinkins. Sends ’is
produce to the city,
To a smart commishun agent ’oo’s a mem-
ber of a ring;
Gits a check fer nex’ to nothin’, with re-
marks that it’s a pity
That the markit’s tendin’ downward in
the case of ev’rything.
Sir, I asks, an’ asks straitforwad, wot’s this
country’s Guv’ment doin’ 7
Ain’t the farmer an’ ’is int’rests worth
consid’rin’ with the rest?
No! They leaves ’im unpretected, rooked
an’ fleeced an’ facin’ rooin,
While they fools with wages questions, at
the Labor crowd’s behest.
Take the case of farmer Johnson. Wants
to buy a modrin reeper,
An’ ’e ’as to pay the seller double wot it
costs to bild.
Tho’ ’e tries a dozen places, yet ’e fales to
get it cheaper,
For the ring ’as rigged the markit, an’ all
competishin’s killed.
Now, I asks agen emphatik, an’ in tones of
indignation,
Wot’s the blanky Guv’ment doin’? Ain’t
the farmer worth sum ’elp?
No! Tlieir all too busy planum’ Socialistic
legislashin,
All agenst our vestid int’rests, while the
Labor members yelp.
Take, agen, the case of ’Ayseed. ’E grows
wheat, an’ ’as to ’awl it
Into markit, where the buyers fixes up a
little plan—
“Onerable understandin,” or sich fancy
names they call it;
But it’s jist a low-down swindle ment to
rook the farmin’ man.
Sir, wot is the Guv’ment thinkin’? Wot’s
it goin’ to do about it 7
Is the farmer to be plundered rite an’ left
without a word?
Labor infiooence is world n’ all the time;
an’ ’oo can dout it,
While the cry of Socialism ev'rywhere is
loudly ’erd?
Now, I site another instance. Take the case
of farmer Billins.
’E wants men to do ’is plowin’; an’ ’e
gives a pound a week;
But them parysights of Onions ups an’ asks
fer thirty shil-lin’s ;
An’ the Guv’ment’s most obejunt ev’ry
time the Onions speak.
Sir, me blud boiles in me buzim! An’ with-
out no hesitation,
I declair that Socialism’s rooinin’ this
’appy land.
An’ I say, an’ say emphatik, that all Labor
legislation
Should be stamped out of our statues with
a firm, relentless ’and!
Wot we want’s a Guv’ment deppo, fer our
produce. Also needed
Is a Guv’ment fact’ry fer to manyfacter
our macheens.
Let the rabit cry of Onion agitaters go
un’eeded,
An’ supply us Guv’ment laber. Then
we’ll show wot farmin’ means.
Kin you wonder that the farmer votes agen
the Labor party,
While they aim at vestid int’rests an at
privit interprise?
Only give us wot we ask for, our support
wall be most ’earty,
For all mesures that rite-thinkin farmers
may consider wise.
Don’t we vote for our class-int’rests? Ain’t
we follerin’ the squotters?
Don’t we listen most attentive to the
brainy biziness men
Frum the city, ’oo ’ave warned us gen the
skeems of Labor rotters?
They’re attendin’ to our int’rests, an’ w T e 11
vote with them agen.
In conclusion, let me mention that the Press
is most imfatick
That the farmer’s vote is alius most intel-
ligent ; an’ ’e
Never fales in ’is support of any mesure
demycratick
When it soots ’imself. I am, sir, yours
an’ cetra —Studs, J.P.
victoria.
DEN.


‘‘Words fail me,” said J. C. L. Fitz-
parrot to an astonished N. S. Wales As-
sembly the other day. It looks like a case
of bankruptcyfor his other political assets
won’t pay a penny in the £.
DEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
INVINCIBLE FACTS.
Mr. D. Ross, of Mosquito Island, writes
“I am pleased to say that I am VERY WELL
SATISFIED with the 6-H.P. engine I received
from you. I have given the engine two very
good trials, one being from Newcastle to Bung-
wahl, a distance of 80 miles, of which 22 were
by sea, without the least bit of trouble; and a
return trip from Newcastle to Clarence Town,
that being 84 miles in the one day, without even
a misfire. My boat is 26ft. x 6ft. 4in., heavy
planked, and gives a speed of 8 miles an hour.
The engine wiil run 7 hours at full speed on one'
tin of oil.”
AH INVINCIBLE Engines are Guaranteed for
Five Years.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works : WOOLWICH DOCK, SYDNEY.
City Office & Showroom : 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
F ranz J osef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
little contribution, it will insist that no
Government assistance shall be given to
bogus societies with brazenly political
objects.
+
Andrew Fisher has the whole tribe of
Union Jackals snapping at his heels. Talk-
ing to Stead —and he might easily have got
a better ear to pour his ideas into —he seems
to have said that “the Empire” wasn’t really
one Empire, but a loose bunch of five Domin-
ions ; and—repeating what Latjrier, of
Canada, said the other day, and what
S’Africa would say any day of any week —-
he added that the children, being adults,
would want to know what a row was about
before taking part in it. Given a just quar-
rel, Mother could rely upon the children for
support; given an unjust quarrel, the chil-
dren might take a hand, or they might not.
If they believed that the quarrel was so un-
just that help was impossible, then Fisher
recognised that the only alternative would
be to go their own way under their own flag.
The crowd that yells “My country right or
wrong,” distorting both Fisher’s argument
and Fisher’s conclusion, demands Andrew’s
scalp, though, if it told the truth, it would
say that it isn’t so much concerned about
getting Fisher’s scalp as it is about getting
a knife into the Labor party’s back. It
knows well that, once the cry of “Disloy-
alty !” is set going in earnest, thousands of
usually sane citizens become demented ; and
this political pack would just as soon have
the vote of a mad citizen as a sane one.
In the circumstances, and before the insanity
spreads, it will be as well for citizens
to ask themselves a question or two. For
instance :
Which is “my country”? Is it Australia, or is
it some other bit of the earth? If it is Australia,
isn’t that country ever going to have a mind of its
own? If it had a population of 50,000,000, would
it still be bound to follow blindly wherever the other
might lead-—even if it should lead into another
Opium War? And is it an.v more righteous for
5,000,000 to follow blindly than it would be for
50,000,000?
Also, if the Mother Dominion can rely absolutely
upon the children joining in her quarrels, whether
they understand anything about those quarrels or
not, and whether they approve of them or
not, what earthly reason is there for the Mother to
take the youngsters’ opinion? Australia, presum-
ably, want's to have her interests considered ; but
why should they be considered if Australia is “in
the bag” ?
Fisher is probably prepared to do more for
“the Empire” than the jackals who are yap-
ning at him. The only difference is that
Fisher wants to do right as well: and, if
be or his party is gibbeted, let. it be distinctly
understood that that is what it is for.
♦
This is how A. J. Balfour, leader of the
British Conservatives, talked just over a
month before Fisher made his alleged re-
marks on “Empire” :
Ido not quarrel with those —I do not accuse them
either of want of perception, imagination, or pat-
riotism—who say that the British Empire, as we
know it, is but a transitory arrangement . . . that
the time must come when these great and growing
communities will feel that all that could be gained
from the Empire as it used to be understood has
been gained, and that, in all kindness of heart, and
with every sympathy, each member of the Empire
had better go its own way like adult members of a
human family. _
In fact, it seems almost certain that the
view which Fisher submitted was the view
adopted at the Imperial Conference; so
that what he said is the Imperial view,
and those who howl at him (mostly tor
party purposes) present the anti-imperial
view. That, of course, would be simply re-
peating history ; it was just what liappenea
in connection with the Australian navy.
The Jingoes raved against that proposal, and
presently they woke up to the horrible fact
that the Labor narty had been presenting
the accredited Imperial view all the time.
J. Bull couldn’t understand Australia’s
White Australia policy once; but he is be-
ginning to get a glimmering ot it at last,
though so far it is only on the industrial side
that it appeals to him. Among others,
Houston, M.P., of the Houston line Liver-
pool, and one of the head serangs of British
shipping circles, is raising trouble about the
Yellow Pest on British ships, and pointing
out that it is about time the British Govern-
ment passed a Bill to save the British sea-
man. Chink sailors and firemen are in the
first place engaged in Chinese ports at about
a third of the pay of a Britisher, and ted
on the smell of an oil rag, with helpings ot
belaying-pin soup. When they get to Lon-
don or Liverpool they promptly swallow the
anchor,” and afterwards sign on _ another
ship for about £1 per month, displacing
white men, or compelling them to accept star-
vation wages —their wives and children getting
most of the starvation. Thus regular China-
towns, with joss-houses and all complete, are
rapidly growing round the Docks in London,
Liverpool, and other large ports, and the
usual social horrors connected with a
Chinese invasion can’t be far behind.
+,
If Victoria’s Willy Watt wanted a lesson
on the folly of making progressive legisla-
tion “optional”—which is what he proposes
to do with his Unimproved Land Values
Bating Bill—he got it the other day from
Berwick Shire Council. One reason why
the Murray State roads are such a disgrace
is that they have to carry loads for which
they weren’t built; that is to say, the load
is too heavy for the width of the tyre of the
vehicle that carries it. Parliament long ago
passed a Width of Tyres Act, which aims at
compelling the use of tyres wide enough to
help make the road, instead of cutting it up;
but the “farmers’ friends” got the measure
made “optional.” The other day Berwick
decided to enforce the Act in one riding,
where the roads were something extra-
awful ; but presently “great dissatisfaction
arose through the farmers being prevented
from carting as much as they would like on
ordinary spring drays with narrow tyres,”
so the Council instructed their officers to
hang the matter up. This paper’s Bill
Sikes is writing by first post to Watt on
the subject. Being naturally a virtuous
man and a Right Thinking person, he does
not mind the law setting its face against
burglary so long as he hasn’t a job on hand
himself'; but he thinks that, when he lias a
little burglary boom in full swing, O Calla-
giian should be instructed to go home and
go to sleep, and take all his men with him.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Lyons Mail.”
Royal “ The Balkan Princess.”
Criterion “Sergeant Brue.”
Adelphi “ The Power of the Cross.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “ The Witness for the Defence.”
King’s “ The Man from Outback.”
Opera’ House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
—
A cultivated person delivering a 12th of
July oration; an Archbishop conducting- a
Salvation Army disturbance; Melba singing
a coon song—such weird incongruities are
suggested by the new production at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. The superb work of the
Irving Co. avails not to hide, but rather
shows up in strong relief, the imbecilities of
“The Lyons Mail.” And how many and
varied and preposterous they are! Not one
stock bellowdrama incredibility is missing.
Lesurques wishes to help his almost bank-
rupt father. He doesn’t say frankly: T
have more than I need. Take what you
want.” Instead, he creeps furtively to the
“THE LYONS MAIN' AT HER MAJESTY’S (SYDNEY).
Lesurques , sen. (Frank Tyars), mistakes the villainous Dubose (H. B. Irving) for his son.
The poor horse is perturbed at the mistake.
old man’s dwelling, and leaves a bag of gold
on the table. Dubose, Lesurques s double
(the human tiger who, despite years of
crime and dipsomania, so resembles the good
and temperate Paris banker that none can
distinguish the one from the other), carefully
omits to slay either Joliquet or Jeanette,
though he has the best of chances to exter-
minate both of them, and though his life must
be in danger so long as they are alive.
Lesurques watches a procession of witnesses
of unimpeachable honesty —amongst them his
own father —identify him as the malefactor
who robbed the mail and murdered the guard,
yet the explanation of the mystery never
strikes him. He is prepared to go to the
scaffold without so much as hinting to Magis-
trate Dorval, his lifelong friend, that the real
offender is possibly some needy ruffian bear-
ing a resemblance to him. Dubose stays in
Paris to be seized, when, by all the laws of
caution, lie should be anywhere else on earth.
And so on throughout the tiresome drivel.
H. B. Irving is the most, natural and
charming hero of melodrama in the world
till his troubles begin. Thereafter he rants
and snarls, and calls on “Gard” to proclaim
his innocence, with the utmost staginess. Plis
Dubose is a grim and convincing character-
one who freezes the marrow of all but the
veriest cynics. It is significant that the
audiences which crowd to Her Majesty’s re-
serve their loudest cheers for the situation
where Dubose dodges behind a door and re-
appears with amazing slickness as Lesurques.
Evidently to them the player is not so much
the thing as the quick-change artist. Miss
Dorothea Baird plays Jeanette with much
emotional force. It is impossible to speak
too warmly of the rest of the cast. Eric
Maxon’s Courriol (who preserves a subtle
suggestion of relentless villainy even when
he is most foppish) ; Arthur Whitby’s Chop-
pard, and the Fouinard and Durochat of Tom
Reynolds and W. Gibbs are excellent. So
are the Jerome Lesurques of Frank Tyars
and the Dorval of Henry Yibart. Miss Irene
Browne, Arthur Gurtis and Stanley How-
lett all do fine work. Never, in fact, does
the writer remember to have seen so much
intelligence and meticulous care and technical
skill lavished on such piffle.
** * *
“Sergeant Brue” returned to the Criterion
on Saturday night in the custody of Percy
Clifton, Edwin Brett having proved an
aliU. Also Willie Cromwell, who 15
months ago was in business as Crooky
Scrubbs, has sold out, and Tom Graves has
taken on the job of helping the Sergeant to
become an inspector, so that he may save
his brother’s fortune from reverting to the
Society for the Propagation of the Habit of
Wearing Braces am oner the Kaffirs. Ruth
Lincoln (Lady Bickenhall) has transferred
her right, title and interest in the heir to
Florence Imeson; and, among many other
changes in the C. and M. Co., Nell Finnis
limps on with an injured foot to help get
the Sergeant’s tea. The piece itself is one
of the best of the new crop of musical come-
dies. It has a coherent plot, and for the
most part the lyrics don’t have to chloro-
form the story in order to get a hearing.
The dialogue, moreover, actually sparkles
in spots, and the music is tuneful. The
principals might get better support at times;
on Saturday night a good-tempered house,
recognising that in particular Brue’s police-
men wanted more rehearsal, brought them
back three times to see that they had it.
The success of the manoeuvre suggests
whether the most profitable house of the
average theatrical season wouldn’t be the
one that could be got, say, a week before
the first night.
** * *
“The Balkan Princess” promises to estab-
lish a record reign at Sydney Theatre Royal
unless she is burnt or dynamited out of the
house. The crowds at this show are even
thicker and more enthusiastic than they
were seven weeks ago.
** * *
At the Adelphi (Sydney) George Marlow’s
Co. continues to hint at a connection between
a vegetable diet and the birthrate ; and this
and the other points of interest in “The
Mother of His Child” are -not likely to be
blunted before the next issue of The Bulle-
tin rolls around.
** * *
The noiseless ghosts of the Coronation are
now passing across the sheet at Sydney
Tivoli, and, for a reasonable sum, the plain
citizen who stayed at home and minded his
job may witness the best part of the expen-
sive show, less the color, noise and incon-
venience. The black and white procession
Avhich trundles out of the one-eyed hissing
machine lacks the pantomime glitter of the
original; but it is a fine thing nevertheless,
and the spectator with corns relishes the
thought that none of the police horses can
back out of the picture and stamp on his
feet. The living people of the show are
practically the same as last week. Binns
and Binns, the graceful Alcide Capitaine,
Spissell Brothers and Mack, Keldine and
Klimo and comedian Kalman divide. the
capital letters among them. The two Lillies,
Fanny Powers and the Australian Dartos
are also mentioned.
** m *
The monkeys of Anita Diaz are packing
their grip-sacks preparatory to leaving the
National Amphitheatre; and Miss Toby
Claude is also shortly due to remove her
brief skirts elsewhere. On the other hand,
Millie Doris continues to evoke shouts of
amazement and delight, and the ball-
punchers from America remain among the
notables present.
#* * *
Coronation pictures everywhere are flick-
ing overtime in their hurry to let Sydney
see them before they have their heels trod-
den on by the scurrying feet of Time.
West’s (Palace and Princess) and Spen-
cer’s (Lyceum) have commenced continuous
shows; and Williams’s Lyric and Colonial
1 and 2 worK 12 hours a day. Besides a
fine film of the procession to and from West-
minster Abbey, West’s show the sceptre,
the spoon, the crown, the orb, etc., with
their respective bearers. The usual pro-
gramme of comedy and drama is provided
for other tastes. The Lyric, besides the
usual mixed pictures, has several thou-
sand feet of Royal procession, colonial
troops and presentation of medals; also
some new pictures of the Prince of Wales
going for his Garter. Spencer’s Lyceum
gallery includes pictures of Mary and her
husband passing through the crowds. At
tne matinee on Saturday the Lyceum will
burst into song as an accompaniment to the
shifting scenery.
** * *
A non-professional “Hook of Holland”
performance at Melbourne Princess’s sug-
gests that an amateur’s shortest way to
efficiency in broad-comedy mumming is the
way of mimicry, wherein Albert Whelan
was a great Australian pioneer. Whelan
formed so complete an imitation of Oscar
Girard, the original old Bronson in “The
Belle of New York,” that he could take the
sick man’s place without being detected in
the fraud. He croaked like a raven when
he could have sung like a tenor, and was
content to produce only a close copy of the
original when he might have improved upon
it. Possibly the amateur Ottey, who imi-
tates Cromwell as Simon Slinks, could be
more droll than Cromwell ever was. Cer-
tainly he adapts a moderately musical voice
to the mimicry of tones which were rasp-
ingly saw-like, and in his various tricks of
Cromwellian absurdity he seems less me-
chanical. Anyway, the amateur Slinks
is an interesting result. Likewise the Mina
of this revival (Miss Daisie Gove), who
copies the business of Emmeline Orford
whilst displaying a marked resemblance to
Celia Ghiloni. With her strong, mellow
voice, good looks, bright intelligence, and a
turn for dancing, Miss Gove raises her part
of the show to the professional standard.
The Ludwig Schnapps and Captain Paap
are quite up to their work in everything but
confidence; the Gretchen is a nice girl in a
minor part, and for the rest of the princi-
pals there is nothing very wicked to say.
Miss Hook has a sweet soprano voice which
shares the blame with a “scratch” orches-
tra when it gets out of tune, and she is
charmingly natural as an amateur; the
bandmaster suggests a melodious curate try-
ing to do his best; and Mr. Hook—a weird
person with a strange enunciation—is to be
pitied for having a part in which he was
bound to be dull. He “creates” a char-
acter, but the creation is weak and weari-
some. A chorus of 40-odd brings plenty of
intelligence and fresh young vocalism to
bear on the proceedings, but is deficient in
fresh young beauty. Scenery and props are
borrowed from the C. and M. production,
and the stage management earns more
laurels than the orchestra, which, however,
is not too bad.
* * * *
This “Hook” experiment by the Mel-
bourne Comic Opera Co. drew a crowded
audience last Saturday, and is to last until
to-morrow (Friday), with sundry changes
in the cast. On Saturday, 29th, another
crowd of amateurs —the Vic. Operatic
Society—takes the floor. “Vdronique” is to
be played three nights in aid of the Austin
Hospital.
** * *
All the Melbourne theatres, bar one, are
preparing for a change of bill on August 5.
At the Royal these are the last nights of
“The Witness for the Defence,” and when
that tale of justifiable homicide has been
drawn to a conclusion, Miss Irving will re-
veal herself in sprightly comedy and Irish
brogue.
sc- * *
Her Majesty’s is the place where nothing
new is to happen at the end of next week.
But on that eventful first Saturday in
August the Melbourne career of “Our Miss
Gibbs” will close. Miss Gibbs was lately
said to have come to stay, but now she is
getting ready to go. Before “Hamlet” ar-
rives from Sydney, on the 2Gth, the audi-
torium of J.C.W.’s broad, expansive play-
house will be built in, as it were, with a
new proscenium arch, and two lots of private
boxes will come to pass where two barren
wastes of space are now located. These de-
sirable alterations will keep the house in the
hands of the architect for three weeks.
MV 'F
Local manufacturing industry in melo-
drama is getting further encouragement at
the King’s. “The Man from Outback” ap-
pears to grip Anderson’s devoted public
closer to its Australian heart than it did
aforetime. The villains pursue their evil
course with a more familiar knowledge of
the track, and Redgrave has naturally
grown more desperate in his misguided efforts
to thwart them. Also, Bailey has added
new touches of human feeling to his imper-
sonation of a young man who stimulates his
avowals of love with bush whisky, and some-
times squeezes the bottle until the wardrobe
in his bedroom changes into Noah’s Ark, and
the lions and unicorns walk out on stilts.
“The Man from Outback” will escape from
the burning hut for yet another week after
this.
J. C.W.'s PARTNERS.
Hugh Ward (Sydney) and George Tallis (Melb.)
The Town Hall will be open again next
Saturday night on behalf of Leonard Bor-
Avick, who will recite no more at the piano--
in Melbourne —after that date. And tne
Athenaeum Hall will have the Jesters in evi-
dence as usual. It seems that the
these times sing and dance into the suburos
four times a week, but return always to tne
Athenaeum on Wednesday and Saturday.
** * *
At the Opera House, the programme. is
much the same as it was, plus the pictured


Denny, S.A.’s Attorney-General, has again
brought" his Workmen’s Compensation Bill
into the Assembly, as, owing to mutilation
by the Landlords, the measure passed last
session is found to be useless. The new
Bill will be just the same as the Bill that
was born last year; and, in view of the
mess the Landlords previously made, they
are expected to this time stop some distance
short of baby-murder.
The German attitude on the Moroccan
trouble is justified by her power. The
nations which neglect military preparations
must always submit to dictation. The wisest
nations develop their powers for the futher-
ance of justice and progress. And there is
no limit to the wise progress of the pro-
gressive nations which are inspired to their
best wisdom by D.C.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
Messrs. Scrubb and Co., Ltd., have been honored
with the appointment as purveyors of Scrubb’s Am-
monia to H.M. King Gustav V. of Sweden. Messrs.
Scrubb and Co. have already been honored with simi-
lar appointments to their Majesties King George V.,
King Alfonso XIII. of Spain, the King of Roumania,
the King of Servia, and H.M. the Czar of Bulgaria.*
LACK OP ENERGY.
If you lack energy, don’t relish your food, feel
dull and constipated, all you need is a dose of Cham-
berlain’s Tablets. They will make you feel like a
new man and give you a healthy appetite. 1 key
will do you more good than a ss. bottle of tonic.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL FIRE
fdh
FIRE
insurance society, limited,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’ Phone No. 23G Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
pomp and circumstance of George’s Corona-
tion. Lamberti is about to pack up his
masks and faces and depart to another city,
but if that gifted foreigner—who is said to
be a Briton in disguise—hopes to escape
from the Coronation film, his hope is bound
to be shattered. Wherever he goes he will
find the band playing the Hanthem to the
tail end of a procession. The gap he leaves
is to be filled by a pair of gentlemen in the
jugglery line of business.
“ THE
WITNESS
FOR THE
DEFENCE ”
at
Melb.
Royal.
GILBERT
PORTEOUS
as
Hubbard.
UALLIWELL
HOBBES,
as
Stephen
Ballantyne,
sees the
jim-
am
Spencer’s Melbourne picture house has
been starring "The Tramp,” a yarn in
which the humor is more conspicuous than
the plot. Other stories that appeal to the
domestic instincts are “His Mother’s Scarf”
and “Winning the Step-children.” Among
topical troubles the Gartering o£ the youth-
ful Wales has served as a sort of introduc-
tion to the Coronation avalanche; and The
Bulletin can only express its sincere sym-
pathy with the central figure, who seemed
to be cruelly weighed down by a robe and
a hat at least nine sizes too large for him.
*# * *
“Civil War,” a four-act play by Ashley
Jukes, a new writer, was given its first Aus-
tralian hearing by the Literary Theatre
peonle in Adelaide. It is a kind of political
“Romeo and Juliet.” His father is a hide-
bound pedant, a country baronet with ideas
of bringing up a youth on Plato. Her
father is a red-hot Socialist (English brand),
who curses the Rich, but doesn’t do anything.
At the end, a previously quiet person takes
charge of the play, and annoys (and sur-
prises) them intensely by pointing out
that they are both cranks, and make a very
well-matched pair. So they agree to let the
young people run in double harness too.
There is too much talk in the play, but only
one bit of it sticks in the memory. “Send a
youth to Eton and Oxford, and he’ll go
through life acting as if the eyes of Eton
and Oxford are upon him. Bring him up on
Plato, and he’ll act as though the eyes of
Plato were upon him ; and he’s as likely as
not to kill a policeman !” The rendering of
the play is not up to the usual high-all-
round standard of the Literary crowd. James
Anderson was good as the Socialist, and the
lovers (Len Chamberlain and Ethel Lewis)
were-natural; but two players of proved
capacity were much at sea this time, in parts
that did not suit them.
** * *
“The Woman in the Case,” at Adelaide
Royal, is “superior melodrama.” (The chief
difference between the superior and the or-
dinary kind is that the former does not need
a Villain, human weakness or Fate being-
enough to battle against.) The acting is
strong, the two ladies, Mabel Trevor and
Elinor Foster, having most of the chances.
Buckler’s lawyer seems younger than the
author probably meant, just as Kay Souper’s
husband is probably older; but they play up
to the woman antagonists strongly. Buckler
gets more scope in “A Fool,” which has
started on a vampire week. Leonard Bor-
wick continues at the Exhibition, and Ade-
laide is gradually waking up to the fact that
he is one of the world’s first XL at the
piano. Elsewhere all is Coronation films.
Even the Tivoli has given in to the popular
clamor, and stars a picture in between the
Black and White Girls, wire-walking Delino,
Fred Bluett, and the other favorites.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Sydney City Council is abolishing theatre queues,
“except in those cases where the proprietors open
the doors at least three hours before the advertised
time of commencing the performance, and at their
fixed prices for each particular class of seat.” The
“stacker” must go too, because the next reform
foreshadowed by the City Council is the numbering
of seats. When that happens every buyer of admis-
sion will buy a specified seat, which will mean the
stoppage of ticket-selling as soon as the numbered
seating capacity is exhausted. With the “stacker”
out of the way, theatres will accommodate fewer
people, and new Saturday goose-shows will be started
for the overflow, or they’ll spend their .money in drink
-—until they learn that Monday or Wednesday is as
good a night to be in a full theatre as Saturday used
to be. People will spend as much on amusement, but
they won’t spend most of it on Saturdays, and they’ll
have time to be more critical, and that ought to
mean better stuff before long.
Ethel Irving began her career as “little Birdie
Irving,” a child dancer, and from that she worked
on to the Gaiety, where she appeared in “Ruy Bias”
with Leslie and Farren.
“One Who Pays”: Ethel Irving may be likened
to Raphael and Goethe in this way: you are not so
impressed with first acquaintance as you are when
you come to do some thinking afterwards. Then you
pick up skeins of Duse, Ellen Terry and Mrs. Pat
Campbell. Ethel resolutely ignores stage traditions,
and even matters thought essential in technique.
Do we not know how the star enters? About five or
10 minutes after the play starts there is a visible
clearance of the stage. On comes Julius, or Julia,
for the big round. Ethel Irving slinks on with her
back to the audience, and just sidles up the stage;
so she does not get a hand. Nor is there any ap-
plause throughout the play, except when Hie curtain
has descended. She wipes out any possible chance
of applauding just as Wagner did. Yet, to my
mind, the drama is a bit underacted by all hands.
We have a London replica, whereas it is. usual for
Londoners in Australia to cayenne a little; and
Williamson will advise them to do it.
Adelina Patti, 68. gave a concert in London re-
cently for the benefit of William Ganz, the “Sing,
Sweet Bird” composer. The old lady’s singing of
two operatic numbers and a couple of ballads is
said to have been wonderful for depth of tone and
clearness of enunciation, considering the present age
of her voice and the early age at which she started
to use it in opera. Fifty years ago she appeared as
La Sonnambula at Covent Garden, and previously she
had starred in America. The story of Patti is an
eternal satire on the modern musical criticism
which discovers great “promise” in the warble of a
25-year-old soprano, and tells her to expect a great
future after she has persevered with her studies for
a few more j r ears. Also, it is a sad reminder to
Melba of the time she lost before starting her
career. The “finishing” lessons she got from Mar-
ch esi when she was 26 or more might have accom-
plished just the same result for the healthy, early-
developed songstress when she was only 18.
“Snell”: “C. Ockney,” having dumped himself in
judgment on me, is thrown into a sort of brain
storm (B. 20/7/’ll) over my reasonable effort to
upset his verdict. After getting through 20 lines of
excitement, I find the gist of his argument, in these
sentences: “I submit there is only one right way
with the playing of Peter Doody. If the original is
not copied, there is simply no part.” There was no
part when the first actor took in hand the author’s
script. The London pro. created it. . The other sing-
ing Comedians .who couldn’t do likewise, putting
their own craft, their own intelligence, and their
own personalities into the realisation of the figure
as it appeared on paper, are not actors, and are un-
worthy of a critic’s respect. If what “C. Ockney,”
in the plenitude of his misunderstanding, says of
Doody is a true bill, I should like to have his ex-
planation of the many personalities that divers
comic opera actors have rummaged out of Gilbert s
“Mikado,” to take a simple instance.. I’ve seen half
a dozen Mikados, all different, none indifferent.
“Mime”: Someone has written to Sydney. Tel-
egraph claiming that the gallery at Her. Majesty’s,
Sydney, corresponds to the upper circle in. most of
the West End of London theatres, and hence is cheap
at the present entrance price. The nerve Of him.
The upper circle at (say) His Majesty s, London,
bears about as much resemblance to the ga lerv at
Her Maiesty’s, Sydney, as Beer does to Mud. You
can book at the libraries for the upper circle in
London, and turn up three minutes before the show
starts and be led to your seat by a civil usher ; the
seat is roomy and otherwise comfortable, and the
occupier’s head is not over against the. roof of the
playhouse. The horror of having to wait sometimes
for hours, in a draughty street, if one is to get a
decent view of the show; the crush; the infuriating
manoeuvres of that barbarous institution, the
packer” ; and the crowded and insanitary atmo-
sphere—all these combine to render our Australian
galleries fair imitations of Sheol shortly after a
flood has occurred in the Yang-Tse-Kiang.
Australia is threatened early next year with a visit
from Maud Allan, the damsel who performs classi-
cal” dances in the “all-but.”
Inez Bensusan, formerly of Sydney, is nowadays a
shining light of the Oncomers’ Society (London).
This body consists largely of players and playwnters
who are coming on along a side-track, and find out-
let for their talent at the Little Theatre. At a re-
cent performance of the Oncomers the. most success-
ful of four items on the bill was a little drama, of
Breton life by Miss Bensusan, commended for being
both sane and humanly interesting. So many of
the playlets produced at the same theatre, by one or
other society, are either insanely unconventional or
conventionally feeble.
“L.H.P.”: Goodness knows how many English
versions there are of “The Courier of Lyons.” The
best is undoubtedly Charles Reade’s, known as “The
Lyons Mail.” This denouement is the most effective.
In the original French play, produced in 1850, Les-
urques is about to be led to the guillotine as the
curtain falls, and Dubose’s fine closing scene, as it
is acted in Reade’s version, has no existence. The
dual role of Dubose and Lesurques has not always
been done by one actor. In the London Standard
production of 1851 (the first in England), J. Rayner
was Lesurques and R. Honner Dubose. Thq, cele-
brated brothers Webb, who were best known as the
Two Dromois in Shalcspeare’s “Comedy of Errors,”
made a big noise in the English provinces in the
’so’s, with a version that showed Henry as the vil-
lain and Charles as Lesurques. Squire Bancroft was
the Courriol of that show. Sir John Hare was also
in the cast. Charles Kean was the first London star
of note to make a hit in the piece; in that cast was
Jimmy Cathcart, who in later years was an Austra-
lian favorite. Wilson Barrett’s wife, Miss Heath,
was the Jeanette of Kean’s show.
From London: —The journalistic humors of the
Backblocks have figured in many a Bulletin, but no-
body has so far tried to make a drama out of them.
There are possibilities in the idea. Lady Gregory,
the patroness of the Irish National Theatre, has just
produced at the Court, London, a little piece of the
kind. Rival editors in a remote Irish village agree
to end a long quarrel by dining together; but be-
fore the meal is over they quarrel worse than ever.
They angrily snatch up their overcoats, or think
they do; but the fact is that in their heat and tem-
per each takes the other’s garment. It so happened
—the “long arm of coincidence,” you know—that
each had in the pocket of his overcoat a candid
obituary notice of his rival, ready to put into print
at a moment’s notice. The discovery of these obi-
tuaries and the reading of them aloud constitutes
the fun of the piece. It is a far-fetched idea, but
distinctly humorous while it lasts, although it may
not bear thinking over afterwards. One of the new
pieces presented by the Irish players during their
London season at the Court is “The Casting Out of
Martin VVnelan.” Martin is a wealthy Irish-Aus-
tralian, who returns to the old sod with a plan of
bis own for the regeneration of Ireland. But the
Cork farmers to whom he expounds it treat it with
derision and disdain, and when someone discovers
that Martin’s grandfather was a traitor and an
informer the fat is in the fire, and Ireland is made
too sultry for him. “What a people! What a
country!” Martin exclaims as the curtain comes
down on his immediate return to Australia.
“W.F.”: Re the revival of the story of Margaret
Catchpole on the London stage. On Easter Monday
of 1844, Margaret Catchpole plays were produced
at the Surrey and Victoria Theatres in London. I,
then 12 years old, saw both. At the Surrey, Will
Land (Margaret’s sweetheart) was played by Henry
Hughes, and Margaret herself by Mrs. R. Honner.
The artists were among the best on the London
boards of that day. The following Monday I saw the
Victoria version, which was in four acts, the last
laid in Australia. Harry Howard, a fine picturesque
actor, was William Land, the smuggler. Miss Vin-
cent, then called “the heroine of domestic drama,”
was Margaret Catchpole. In the fourth act, laid in
Australia, Cony and Blanchard, famous swordsmen,
played two aboriginal chiefs, and fought as to who
should possess Margaret Catchpole. I know now
that thev were much more like North American
Indians than Australian natives. Those versions so
impressed me that I’m sure if they were as well
played now they would be a great success.
“C. Ockney”: Charles Frohman, the theatrical
boss, has been talking to a Referee (London)_ in-
terviewer much in the style of our own Bill Squires.
He says that after looking out for a long time for a
“play with a punch,” he has found it at last. It is
“The Butterfly on the Wheel,” in which Lewis Waller
is at present playing at the Globe. Waller will
doubtless bring it along with him when he embarks
for these shores next year. I shan’t be surprised if
I meet “Boshter Bill” among the audience on the
first night.
The association of mane and music is practically
at an end. Leonard Borwick says there is now more
willingness on the part of the public to listen to a
bald pianist than ever there was, and a musician
may at last have his hair cut with comparative
safety.
LEONARD BORWICK, PIANIST.
“A.W.R.”: “Vulcan” (B. 13/7/T1) quotes a
London paper’s announcement of the arrival .of
“Cleopatra, the Australian snake-charmer,” and asks,
“Is she yet another of the ‘Australian artists who
gained their experience in the ’roo-infested wilds of
Clapham?” No, she isn’t. She has been “show-
ing” around Australia for years, and for a while
got into the Rickards halls. Two others were
usually on the same menu—Bonita, a skilful girl
rifle-shot, and a gentleman known as Don Carlos, the
latter being generally accepted as the father of the
two girls. I don’t think they are Australian-born
performers ; more likely Spanish-Americans.
“Heavy Lead”: A family of showmen in the South
have been rechristened the Buttinskis, owing to their
habit of butting in whenever other and usually
smaller men have found or invented a payable pitch;
and the daughter of a small bioscope showman was
made bitter thereby. One day she was selling the
weekly product of dead marines to the “bottle-oh
man. The mariner boasted that trade was good, ( and
that sometimes he “made four quid a week.” For
Heaven’s sake keep it to yourself,” said the moving-
picture girl. “If the Buttinskis get to hear of it,
you’ll be ruined.”
“Star-azer”: It is a kindness to whisper to Mrs.
Brough that she does not know how to make up, and
never did. Mrs. B. is a pleasing actress, and an ex-
cellent craftswoman, and thousands of Australians
owe her a debt of gratitude for past favors; yet
most actresses with a twentieth part of her ex-
perience can give her points in making-up the face
to counteract footlight vagaries. I remember this
defect existing even in the Boucicault days, and see
it exaggerated in “Nobody’s Daughter” and “Lover s
Lane” nowanights, where it has happened that the
effects produced were nine times out of 10 exactly
the opposite to those the actress sought.
Launceston (Tas.) is getting its new theatre too.
With startling originality it is to be called the
Princess, and looks mainly to vaudeville and pictures.
Harrison 0. : One Rolins, who hag just passed
f he F Vf S deS " ibetl as “ the las t survivor
of the famous Shakspeanan company which Samuel
1 helps gathered around him at Sadler’s Wells.” It
is not .true. Rose Edouin (Mrs. Lewis) played child
parts in Samuel s company, and if ever the report
of her death was heard, it was grossly exaggerated.
Dr. Orville Wright, the Baconspeare crank, con-
tinues to waste pots of money in his attempt to
prove that Francis Bacon was the real Divine Wil-
liam. Workmen employed by Wright to discover
documents buried in the bed of the river Wye (Eng.)
have lighted on the foundations of an ancient Roman
bridge, and now they are shifting to a shallower
part of the river. This digging in the Wve seems
appropriate. Wye, O wye should F. Bacon be for-
ever suspected of having taken extraordinary pains
to transfer his alleged authorship of “Hamlet,” etc
to an impudent pretender, whilst he was taking even
more trouble to plant cipher keys to the mystery in
river-beds'! 1 The most astounding foolishness of Or-
ville Wright’s delusion is his hope of bracketing
Ben Jonson, Beaumont and Fletcher and others with
the “impostor” Shalcspeare. Poor old Shale’s claims
to his own writings has been soberly questioned on
the ground that no one man could have done so
much, but the crank theorists are giving Bacon
credit for about twice as much as the Bard ever put
his name to.
Brisbane is to have an open-air theatre, on the
river bank, near Victoria Bridge. Branscombe is
running the show.
The will of Mrs. Georgina Harriett Rignall, late
of Middle Harbor, Sydney, and wife of George
Richard Rignall (George Rignold), was the other day
lodged for probate. Deceased left £B9 in real property
and £2399 in personal estate to her husband.
“Vulcan”: Tenor Caruso, some time back, became
violently “mashed” on a little Milanese milliner,
and the correspondence became, as he says, “vairy
intimeet.” The lady dreamed of orange blossoms,
etc. ; the tenor was thinking of other things. The
lady shrieked “breach” ; the tenor scoffed. After
an ominous silence, the lady sweetly inquired what
the full publishing rights of (say) “The Passionate
Love Letters of a Middle-Aged Tenor” were worth.
The operatic luminary hurriedly replied that they
would fetch £2OOO. The lady thought they were
worth twice that. And the last indications were
that the stricken warbler would agree with her !
“0.K.”: In saying that “nobody seems to have
definite ideas about the result of the reckless picture
competition which is coming along,” I meant nobody
who has a knowledge of the character of the business.
“G.L.C.” (B. 20/7/’ll) says that “The flicker shows
will all finish up precisely as those in London and
N’Yark have done, i.e., give way to an interlarding
of variety show,” as it was in the beginning. But
“G.L.C.’s” definite idea is obviously false. The
picture-shows have not finished up like that in Lon-
don. Take the advertised time-tables of the Oxford,
Tivoli and Pavilion music-halls for last month. The
bioscope at each hall was the last item on the pro-
gramme—ll.ls p.m., 11 p.m., 11 p.m. And so it
was elsewhere. Pictures at the ’alls are for the
people who come early to get a cheap seat, and stay
late to get their full money’s worth ; and meanwhile
the shows which are wholly pictorial continue to
flourish. What “G.L.C.” seemingly doesn’t know is
that the solid bulk of patronage for picture theatres
comes from the class that rarely, or never, ventures
into a place where girls dance in scant attire, and
jokes are sometimes “blue.” In fact, many of the
most persistent picture-eaters would sooner die and
go straight to Heaven than enter a music-hall and
be d —d.
“Fungoid”: Henry Neil Warner is referred to in
“Poverty Point.” I knew a relative of his, a Mrs.
Harvey, who told me his name was Lockwood. He
was no relative of Charles Warner, whose real name
was Lickfold. H. N. Warner first came prominently
before the Melbourne public at the opening of the
Theatre Royal, in 1855, when he acted Charles Sur-
face in “The School for Scandal.” Later, he dropped
too much into imitating Brooke—actors get hypno-
tised by superior men. Warner went to America,
and did well for many years. His wife, a beautiful
lady of high culture, was much honored.
Remarked, apropos the funeral of Allan
McLean, that only three of Victoria’s ex-
Premiers remain in the flesh. The first in
point of importance is old George Turner,
who still potters about in well-worn clothes
The second is Iceberg Irvine; the other
the raucous Peacock.
No doubt to accommodate some of the
capital that wants to fly out of the country,
with the Labor Government devil at its
heels, the Holt Blue Funnel line is building
two 15,000-ton steamers for the “via the
Cape” service. They will be one-class ships,
like the recently-added Aeneas and Anchises
-—which also suggests that Holt’s foresee a
considerable rush of immigrant population to
share in the ruin of these devastated parts.
The just-dead relict of Melbourne’s first
brewer (John Mills) must have established
a record for widows. Under John’s will she
got all his property, including the brewery
and an adjoining pub in Flinders-lane, and
this pitch became immensely valuable. On
her death the estate was to be shared among
the daughter and brothers and sisters of
deceased. But she lived to see all the re-
.versionists go under, whilst Flinders-lane
was being made richer and richer for the
ground landlords. In fact, she married
again, and lived for full 70 years after the
death of brewer Mills.
Though he had ability of a kind, George
Jenkins, late Clerk of Vic. Parliament, was
the most humorless of persons, and took
his precious title with awful seriousness.
Just after he had received it, he made the
rounds to receive the congratulations of the
barmaids. One of them, at one house, pro-
fessing to be unaware of his new nobility,
greeted him with “Good morning, Mr. Jen-
kins ! It’s quite an age since we saw you.”
The fatuous Jenkins, stepping out of ear-
shot of his companions, beckoned the
lady to lean across the counter, and, beam-
ing on her as though he were paying a com-
pliment, whispered, “Call me ‘Sir George.’ ”
It didn't strike him that the demure Hebe
would turn the incident to anecdotal ac-
count. But she did ; wherefore Jenks’s plain-
tive appeal remains as his epitaph—“ Call
me Sir George.”
The cantankerous Wade disgusted a few
more of his alleged followers the other day by
raising a scare over the State’s most recent
IO U’s. He buzzed that the action of
xlcting-Treasurer Carmichael, in signing cer-
tificates of inscribed stock, was quite illegal,
on the ground that Carmichael wasn’t a port-
folioed Minister, and had no Constitutional
status. Thereabouts Carmichael, who is a
duly sworn-in member of the Executive
Council, produced proof that Wade, as At-
torney-General in the Carruthers Govern-
ment, had raised no question of legality when
“Billy” Dick was signing stock certificates,
though Dick didn't even have a seat in the
Executive Council. Wade lapsed into a
profound silence, whilst his “Liberal” host
asked itself what sort of a leader it was who
blundered into glaringly obvious ditches like
that.
THE ETERNAL TEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I saw General Booth. He put a lovely kiss on
my face, and said, ‘That is for Commissioner Hay.’
When I arrived home I gave it to the Commisioner.
(Laughter.) The General gave me another kiss and
said, ‘That is for Mrs. Hay.’ When I arrived here I
offered it to her.” (Great laughter.)— -“Colonel”
Hoskin, at a Salv'army beano in Melbourne.
In ancient Eden, I believe,
When fig-leaves first became “de rigger,”
With certain smiles and signals Eve
Made Adam snigger.
I wonder why it is, so oft,
When Cupid’s cup is there to quaff,
His offer should provoke a soft
And silly laugh?
Because it seems (as you’ll agree)
An anti-climax very stupid
To let the rosy angel be
A giggling Cupid !
ITow beastly, when in amorous toils
You’ve fairly caught the teasing Miss,
To meet the little laugh that spoils
The hard-won kiss !
The playwright finds, when in a jet
Of passion rare his soul he’s pouring,
Canoodling on the stage will set
The audience roaring.
And even when our Wowser friends
Are praising God with fearful sound,
The merest hint of cuddle sends
A chuckle round.
The custom’s old ; deserves no taunt;
Is necessary, too. Then, drat it,
Why in the devil should we want
To giggle at it?
Yet vainly do I deal my stroke,
For fools still gurgle in their necks
Before this never-resting joke,
The joke of Sex.
VICTORIA.
L.


NEW SPRING SHIRTS
JUST OPENED AT DAVID JONES LTD.
From August 1 we shall hold special displays
throughout our House of the new Spring and
Summer Goods. Everyone is invited to come and see.
The “Captain” Shirt, 6/6.
THE Shirt illustrated here is our celebrated “Captain ” Tunic
Shirt—a splendid garment, well known for its excellent
value. The “Captain” is of good Zephyr, in a wide
variety of Striped Designs, including Pink, Heliotrope, Green,
Brown, etc. Made in our own workrooms, under the supervision
of a first-class shirt cutter, from materials imported direct from
the Home Mills. Has soft centre pleat, and stiff round cuffs.
In sizes— l 4, 14£, 15,15|,16,16J, 17,17 J and 18 inches collar, 6/6.
SENT CARRIAGE PAID.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Pll;
wif-illTrls’J
Gout and Rheumatism.
These complaints arise from the poisonous waste
matters accumulated in the blood consequent on the
kidneys, through temporary disorder or through
some disease, being unable to carry out their work.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills rapidly reach the root of the
trouble and soon afford relief. Price, Is. 6d. and
2s. Gd.*
TAKEN SICK IN SYDNEY.
“When in Sydney some time ago I had a very bad
attack of indigestion, with sickness lasting for some
hours,” writes Mrs. J. F. Holmes, 231 Auburn Road,
Hawthorn, Vic. “It left me so weak I was unable
to go to business. A friend gave me a sample of
Chamberlain’s Tablets, and after taking three tablets
I was so much better that I was able to resume
work, and in less than a week I was quite well.”*
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of O.T.
Limited, it was unanimously passed to increase the
capital of the company by the issue of 160,000
shares of 10s. each. The object of increasing the
capital is for the purpose of acquiring the London
business, and to develop and extend trade in every
country in the world. 100,000 shares of 10s. will
be offered for public subscription, payable ss. on
application and ss. on allotment. The Prospectus
will be issued at the beginning of August,*
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A Victorian P.M. wearied the other day of
the persistent adulteration of milk by a Mel-
bourne dairyman, and, it being the swindler’s
eighth conviction, fined him £5O, and ordered
the conviction to be notified in a daily paper.
This was following the French plan of
making such swindlers notify the public of
their conviction by placarding their shop
doors; but as it was this man’s eighth con-
viction, and as most if not all of the pre-
vious ones had been reported in the papers,
the penalty apparently has little effect.
Many people, it seems, on reading of Smith’s
conviction, remark: “Oh, Smith has just
been fined ; he’ll probably sell good milk for
a while now” ; and Smith trades on that as-
sumption and recoups himself. A better
plan is the Cold Country one of putting
Smith in gaol after his second conviction,
and giving him more and more gaol every
time thereafter. Gaol is a shockingly bad
market for dangerous goods of any other
than the human variety.
NEW YEAR’S NIGHT IN TOPIEET. THE ARRIVAL OF THE INVOICE
FOR THE NEW CONSIGNMENT OF PAVING-STONES.
One John M. Atkinson—who says things
that many another Fat, in liis innermost
: S - Wr ° te t 0 "
I am certainly not one of those who consider that
by raising the pay of the employee a better class is
secured; on the contrary, a spirit of independence is
fostered, and a proportionately inferior service ren-
dered -
Yes, certainly! And Atkinson, being some-
thing in the city in the commission line,
what more need be said? All he has to do
is to bring his commission down to .01 per
cent, to guarantee a better service to his
clients. And if he would only bring it down
to .001 oer cent., he would simply burst with
independence.
The Queensland Government has settled
with the owners of the Waipara, who were
suing the State for £lOO,OOO damages caused
to their vessel while in charge of a Govern-
ment pilot. The Government denied lia-
bility and responsibility, but has compro-
mised by paying a comparatively small sum
as compensation, reserving the right to still
disclaim legal liability. This decision, while
it probably will save Bananaland and the
co. much good money in Costs, leaves in
doubt the question as to the liability of the
State which makes shipmasters employ a
“compulsory” pilot in pilotage waters. Most
of the States when handing over a valuable
ship and cargo to the tender care of a pilot
calmly disclaim any responsibility. Vic-
toria limits a pilot’s liability to £lOO. But
as Victoria as well as the other States
compels the engagement of a pilot, it has
been held by shipowners that the Govern-
ment cannot dodge its liability at, law by
merely passing an Act. Still, the F. and O.
wasn’t game to tackle the legal problem
when the Australia was lost at Port Phillip
Heads. Now the parties in the Waipara
case have funked it. As a proposition in
Costs this question when it is settled will
probably be a record.
* * * *
A Melbourne woman, lunching at a city
restaurant, found a mouse’s head in a pie,
and writes to the papers complaining about
it. Women in these matters are so un-
reasonable. Now, a man would have been
quite satisfied that a head was all he had
any right to expect for the money.
“Billy B.”: I’m overpowered with the
scheme to erect a “dignified” statue to the
late Edward in Sydney, especially the sug-
gestion to plant it at the top of Moore-street,
when that thoroughfare is completed through
to Macquarie-street. It is amazing with
what tenacity flunkeyism clings to life in
this picket nation of Democracy, and as-
tounding with what tolerance it is allowed
to masquerade as “the feeling of the people.”
Who has heard “the people” clamor or even
whisper for 50 or 60 tons of tombstone to
any king to be dumped down in the fair-
way of one of their streets?
P.M.G. Thomas will probably turn with
unholy joy to Sidney Colvin’s “Letters of
Robert Louis Stevenson,” just published,
and look up a letter from Vailima to Henry
James, written in 1891. Therein Stevenson
laments that things have disappeared in the
“capacious maw of the Post Office,” and adds :
“Many letters both from and to me I know
now to have been lost in transit. My eye is on
the Sydney Post Office, a large, ungainly
structure with a tower, as being not 100
miles from the scene of disappearance.”
Thank Heaven, Federation can’t be held re-
sponsible for what happened in 1891 —days
when dear old Dan O’Connor was letting
his whiskers flow out over the post office
carvings, what time he wasn’t writing a
minute to the effect that his under-sec. had
better “app’int Maloney!”
The S. Aus. Supreme Court has given a
sensible decision about some irregularities in
a family ’ An old lady left all her Property
*° J lo ' andcllildren, but these proposed to
exclude (1) a cluld admittedly born before
marriage, (2) another born three years after
the separation of husband and wife. The
< 'ourt said that the old lady knew all about
the first inopportune infant, and doubtless
meant it to have a share; and that the second
was (in the absence of strict proof) entitled
to assume that its legal father had been “in
the vicinity at the time it was begotten.”
The newspapers, by the way, were pointedly
requested to suppress the names, while pub-
fishing the principles.
The outcome of Auckland's (M.L.) recent
discoveries in regard to its food supply is
that, for the future, the City Council will
have control of the city’s food and drink
production under last session's Pure
Food and Drugs Act; and the municipal
inspector is to advise the Licensing Com-
missioner as to the condition of hotel food-
factories. When it was pointed out that the
yellow market-gardeners in one suburb
“cleaned” their vegetables in a stream that
also accepted sewage, one excited councillor
declared for letting Lionel Terry out with a
roving commission, a gun, and the run of an
ammunition factory.
THE RIVALS.
One of Victoria’s policemen lately made a
painful exhibition of the system under which
he works. He watched a “suspicious”
stranger enter a Caulfield bike shop, where,
it seems, the stranger told the person in
charge that he had called for his bike. The
man behind the counter disclaimed all know-
ledge of a bike, and while they were arguing
the point the Law came forth and arrested
the stranger on a totally irrelevant charge of
“having no lawful means.” After being
locked up for a week the man was presented
at court, when it was proved (1) that he
had actually left his bike at that shop to be
repaired; (2) that he was in regular em-
ployment on a farm at Bunyip. Even the
Vic. honorarium was staggered at the auto-
cratic proceedings, and at once dismissed
the case. Someone later on drew Attorney-
General Dry Brown’s attention to the mat-
ter, and that luminary undertook to con-
sider the question of compensation. But
that isn’t the main thing. Granting that it
may be impossible to keep callow constables
from making occasional asses of themselves,
it ought to be quite impossible for a man
to be held in gaol for a week when half-an-
hour’s diligent inquiry should prove the
utter groundlessness of the charge laid
against him on no evidence whatever. It is
all very well for O’Callaghan’s men to bal-
ance the non-arrest of the criminals they
can’t catch by arresting innocent citizens
whom they can; but the State doesn’t main-
tain gaols for the detention of innocent per-
sons on absurd charges.
Half a dozen feather-duster laws having
failed to sweep Ah Chow out of Victorian
cabinet-making, it is now proposed to make
it illegal for John to sleep on factory
premises, or to be discovered pervading the
establishment after hours. This is rendered
necessary by the discovery that the Chow
joiner is a somnambulist, and works in his
sleep. Reformers reckon that if Wun Lung
and Ling Fit are compelled to give the
white competitor an absolutely square deal,
J. Chow will go out of the furniture fac-
tories, and it is probably true. But the
Chow problem has many features in com-
mon with the “social evil,” and the Good
Ones of the earth are just learning that you
don’t abolish the “evil” when you shift it.
If Wun Lung is bustled out of the wood-
working industries, he will reappear as the
same old problem in some other department
of trade or labor, so that it will be necessary
to go on chivvying him ; and in the end we
shall be pretty certain to pull up out of
breath and decide that there is no cure for
Yellow Agony short of amputation.
Wheat and babies are closely related in
S. Aus. Presumably in gratitude for a suc-
cession of line harvests, in the past six
months 2005 Billjims undertook to feed
and clothe and buy hatpins for the daughters
of 2005 other people, which is by far the
best record for the State. The births were
5451, the best since the reckless times of a
quarter of a century back, and 656 above the
recent half-yearly average; and the deaths
of infants under one year were kept down
to 356.
The Westralian Timber Workers’ Union
formed four years ago, sat down in a cool’
quiet place the other day and valued its
harvest. It reckons that it has secured an
extra £25,000 a year at least for its *>3oo
members —something over £lO a year on"the
average—and all that it has had to pay out
over strikes and lockouts is about £lBOO A
while back it provided scholarships for the
sons and brothers of members, at a cost of
£1600; and the idea of a wood-chopper want-
ing to provide the higher education for his
youngsters nearly choked some of the union's
Fattest critics.
From the Oldest
Inhabitant’s Under-
study :
Apropos G a rdiner
and the early owner-
ship of the Toorak
district. Old Victorian
plans show “Elgar’s
Special Survey,” an
enormous tract, ad-
joining Gardiner’s. El-
gar was a mystery.
A large number of
people squatted, or
rather selected, on his
survey without paying
anything. It included
rich parts both
of Toorak and Haw-
thorn. When the selec-
tors thought them -
selves covered by the
Statute of Limitations,
an Elgar turned up.
alleging that he had
been a minor, and so
still had claims. It
is alleged that some
selectors gave him a
good deal of money;
others refused, and
pulled through all
right. All this is, how-
ever, vague and misty;
and something more
ought to be known
about Elgar. Toorak-
road was first called
Gardiner’s Creek-road,
and South Yarra rail-
way station was first
called Gardiner’s Creek
station. The Creek will
be found running into
the Yarra opposite the
Richmond survey pad-
dock. Jackson, who
built Toorak House,
was an ironmonger,
founder of McEwan
and Co. For some time
Toorak House was used
as Government House.
Hotham, Barkly, Dar-
ling and Canterbury
lived there. It was in
this place that Hotham
disgusted his free-feed-
ing society guests by
giving them colonial
beer instead of cham-
pagne. “Cold Pig”
they called him, no
doubt to show that,
though they might love
the Throne and Person
much, they loved free
fat feeding and drink-
ing more.
“Red Tape Junior”: The old, one-eyed
Herald annoyed me so much to-day that I
melted all the sealing wax. She was on
“Federal Chicanery” again, and wavin'? her
brolly furiously at the proposal of the Com-
monwealth Government to pay 8, instead of
3% or more, per cent, interest on the value
of the properties transferred by Australians
to Australia when they became one people
instead of six insects. Said she: —
This chicanery should be combated at every point
if the Federal compact is to endure on a firm and
lasting basis.
But what about the State’s treatment of
me! When 1 joined this department, Ma
started to pouch 4 per cent, of my salary,
without even saying “by your leave,” and
got away with £65 of my hard-earned money
up to 1896. In that year I was given a
chance to cease contributing, but Ma would
not hand over the £65. Instead, I was
coolly informed that the principal would be
held until I died, and that, though 3 per
cent, interest (not 3J or 3% p.c., but just
3 p.c.) would be credited, I would not be
allowed to draw the accumulations. What
has Granny got to say to that? If the Com-
monwealth is guilty of “chicanery,” the
State, arguing the case from the same prem-
ises, is guilty of daylight robbery.
* * * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph describes the
Coronation: —
Australian delegates and other oversea represen-
tatives, with the exception of the Prime Mimsters,
were seated far down the hall, and saw little more
than the procession of Royalty. It was primarily
the crowning of the King by England’s lords. The
House of Commons and the people whom tney re-
presented had nothing to do with the great cere-
monial. The only seats which commanded an un-
interrupted view of the theatre and altar were occu-
pied by the peers and peeresses. The only hands
which played a part in the service were those of the
aristocracy and the Church. The Westminster boys
responded to all the Archbishop’s proclamations.
The shout of the boys was vigorous and ringing
enough, but it was theatrical and cold. . . Each time
the boys thundered “God Save the King,” but the
congregation was silent. . . Too much of the old
ceremonial borders on the burlesque.
So George was crowned by the lords, and the
only hands that played a part were the aris-
tocracy and the Church. And the Church
has lost its power and the Lords are dying—
and yet the papers remark upon it when the
King wears a worried look.
Melbourne’s Australian Church, long the
platform of that good Democrat and white
man, Dr. Charles Strong, but now in the
hands of people to whom the congregation
pays rent, was offered by auction last week,
but elicited no bids. There was a rumor
that a syndicate had an idea of turning it
into residential flats, but the solemn atmo-
sphere of the place choked the speculators
off.
STRIPE WITHOUT END, AMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Bro. Langdon said that if the cause arose
Protestants would wade in blood to defend their
liberties. (Applause.) —Cheerful note from an
Orange celebration in Perth.
’Twas in the Pit, the Sulphur Pit,
AVhere most of mortal things have end,
I saw a figure in a fit.
Methought I recognised a friend—
A face oft seen on earthly ways,
Untainted by the Devil’s blaze.
He waved his arms, and cried aloud
Of Bible, Liberty and Blood.
About him turned a frantic crowd ;
The flames swept o’er them like a flood.
“AVith Luther’s sword we must,” cried he,
“Protect our sacred liberty.”
I led Old Nick apart, and asked:
“Whence comes this madman? Who is lie?”
A grin the Master Fiend unmasked.
“An Orangeman,” he answered me.
“Know, each July, with zeal austere,
We celebrate the Boyne down here.
For ancient creeds and causes dead
They still fight on till all is red.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


Rich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
Ail Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What's '
put
in
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes.
No. 57.
Guaranteed under .
the " Pure Food Act, 1908,"
by Lever Brothers Limited,
Sydney, N.S.W.
No. 57.
r>>
THE TROUBLES OF DIGESTION, pain, flatu-
lence, acidity, and so on, are happily in most cases
simply the expression of some fleeting disturbance of
function. The best way to restore tone and regu-
larity to the intestinal tract is bj r taking a wine-
glassful of “HUNYADI JANOS” natural aperient
water the first thing in the morning every second or
third day.*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney', is the
proper place to go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 ; Satur-
day close at 1 o’clock.*
IT FITS ANY HEAD—THIS “ CONFORM ” HAT.
v' vy
3 , ‘
KSS
m
IT is so milled by a leading British manu-
facturer that it will fit any head
comfortably, adjusting itself to any
peculiarity and retaining that shape !
The brim has a good roll that keeps it
firm, and is 2J inches wide, whilst the crown
can be worn either dented, bulged or
creased as you prefer.
Wc have it in Light or Middle
Grey and Light and Dark Pawn,
with cord edges. For general
wear, especiallv in the country,
this “ CONFORM ” HAT is
deservedly a favorite.
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA
INTER-STATE, 1/3.
Please state Size when yon order.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Recently the M.L. Conciliation Council,
while considering a dispute betwen the Mer-
chant Service Guild of Australasia (M.L.
section) and the employers, found itself up
against the question: Should ship captains
and other officers be dealt with in the same
case? Being unable to make up its mind on
the matter, it knocked up its neighbor, the
Arbitration Court, for an opinion. The
Court decided that it was desirable to divide
the dispute into two branches —one dealing
with the claims of the masters, the other
with the claims _ of the officers —the idea
being that a skipper’s authority might be
impaired if he were a member of the same
union as. his officers. If that result was
likely, said Judge Sim, then, in the interests
of commercial travellers, jockeys, judges, and
even politicians and the general public, the
“old man” should be. prohibited from belong-
ing to the same union. Nevertheless, the
Court had no power to order that much, and
merely threw it in for some other authority
to consider. Judgment accordingly.
The Sydney wharfies have intimated that
ihev will not unb sugar from Queensland
ports if it has been loaded bv blackleg labor.
The Hon. W. M. Hughes, as Attorney-Gen-
eral, has advised W. M. Hughes, Esq., Presi-
dent of the Wharf Laborers’ Union, that
this action does not constitute a strike. The
wharfies, it seems, are not refusing to work ;
they are only refusing to do a certain class
of work. . This may be good law; but if
the staff in the Attorney-General’s office re-
fused to conduct any office business with any
one particular State, though sweetly agreeable
(o write letters to all the others, The
Bulletin fancies W. M. Hughes wouldn’t
view their action quite so dispassionately.
Hughes, by the way, threatens to resign the
presidency of the wharfies if the trouble
becomes acute. He should have done it im-
mediately he became Attorney-General, just
as he would have expected Wade to resign
had he been President of the Coal Owners
when he became State Attorney-General.
A Warburton (Vic.) citizen lately had
a bout with the Railway Department, and is
£1 poorer in pocket and x richer in experi-
ence, It seems he desired to consider the
Yarra, and discovered that by taking separ-
ate return tickets from Warburton to Lily-
dale and thence to Melbourne, instead of a
return through from Warburton to Mel-
bourne, he would save Is. 9d. Lilydale.
however, suspected his infamous intention,
and refused him a ticket, whereupon he rod*'
to the city without one, and was fined in
A MATTER OF
SKIRT.
THE BRIGHT BOY:
“ ’Elio, there!
Why don't yeh
strike an
average?"
consequence, the department further rub-
bing it- in by demanding the price of the
ticket it refused to sell him. Of course his
proceedings were quite immoral and con-
trary to the regulation in such case made
and provided. It obviously pays the depart-
ment to carry a man from Warburton to
Lilydale and back for 2s. 6d. or so, or it
wouldn’t do it; also, it makes a profit by
shifting him thence to Melbourne and back
for 3s. 3d. But to imagine it is going to
carry him the whole distance for the sum of
the two fares is manifestly absurd. In the
Department’s eyes 2d. and 2d. make 5d. —
which leaves Id. profit.
Kink O’Malley, Commonwealth Minister
for Fireworks, has an idea for resuming the
whole block of which the Sydney G.P.O. now
forms the northern end. The king wants
more accommodation for the Post Office,
and for the Customs, and for his National
Bank when it comes; _ and he proposes to
concentrate it all in this central block. He
wouldn’t want much of the ground floor;
so he figures on putting up shops on the
frontages, and making a business proposi-
tion of it that way. Presumably, if the idea
can be hatched out, this is to be the real
headquarters of the Commonwealth’s busi-
ness : Yassberra will be a sort of back-yard
or dog-kennel, as it was intended to be all
along. The Bulletin has no over-power-
ing objection to any State-resumption scheme
on reasonable terms ; all the same, the craze
for packing people into the middle of a
bloated city has been carried too far, and
this merely carries it farther. About two-
thirds of the work that is done in the ex-
pensive parts of the crowded city could be
just as well, if not better, done in some airy
suburb —or country town, for that matter.
Huge concerns like the Norwich Fire, Insur-
ance Office have their headquarters in com-
paratively small provincial towns in Britain.
FASHION’S CHANGES.
[For The Bulletin.]
Woman’s Charm is her hair. You can buy one of
our Transformations for £5 5s. — Advt.
“A woman’s crowning glory is her hair” ;
So ran the ancient proverb, saw or story.
Lo ! how times change. Now shopmen boldly swear
Their hair’s the modern female’s crowning glory.
N.s.w. 10-2-4.
Acting-Premier Holman (N.S.W.) easily
disposed of the “sentiment” argument put
forward by J. T. Walker (Senator) as one
of a deputation which protested against Gov-
ernment House being used for anything else.
Any “sentiment” attaching to the place will
be preserved, and, moreover, the public—
the mere Bill and Mary—will have an op-
portunity of viewing the interior of the
historical house and its decorations for the
first time, after being shut outside for nearly
70 years. True, when some former Gov-
ernors were sworn in, “the respectable por-
tion of the inhabitants” (vide the advts.) was
invited to witness the ceremony; but the
ceremony always took place in the entrance
hall, and the “respectable portion,” etc., oc-
cupied the dooymat.
* * * *
A Melbourne doctor, in the course of a Uni-
versity lecture, pointed out that alcohol ex-
ists in milk in varying quantities. This con-
nects the Demon Cow of Australia’s bush youth
with the Demon Drink of Mr. Mauger, and
should serve to bring cow products under
Rechabitish suspicion. For its part, The
Bulletin has long suspected this; for it
has almost invariably found rum in the milk
of human kindness.
“Eddyson” : Wo-
man’s determina-
tion not to escape
attention drives her
to quaint devices at
times. One neigh-
bor of mine has a
lumpy, bow-legged,
splay-faced brute
that might be mis-
taken for a true
bulldog at 50 paces
on a dark night.
This precious ani-
mal haunts the
streets and back
lanes, coursing
Brown’s ducks in
the gutters, and be-
sieging Smith’s cat
up a post during
the work-a-day
w r eek; but on fine
Sundays he is cap-
tured, subjected to
a hot bath, braced
up with flash har-
ness, and his mis-
tress, whip in hand,
takes him forth on
a lons rein to
waddle ahead of her in frequented places,
that she may loom in the vulgar eye as an
uncommon object. Another young matron
resorts to an original device. She has a
particularly fine, fair baby boy. She puts
his little left arm in splints, swathes it in
snowy bandages, hangs it about his neck in
a swagger silk scarf, and takes him for long
tram rides, fairly wallowing in the universal
regard inspired by the pretty pitifulness of
the babe with a broken arm.
DOBRS (very drunk, to very sober friend): “Look ’ ere , of boy—jush ring up my wife, an' shay I
gorra take y' home, ’cause you're so shockin'ly drunk."
James Edmond calls on the Dago:—
I tore myself away from Venice with a loud rend-
ing sound and a feeling of profound grief. If it
hadn’t been that my apartment was already en-
gaged at Florence and the bill was accumulating I
would have stayed longer.
Venice is an ideal place for anyone who wants a
good sleep in the morning. In all the great city
there is no horse, mule, donkey, ox-cart, dray, wag-
gon, cab, buggy, taxi., motor-car, tramcar, omni-
bus, motor-bus, or (1 believe) wheelbarrow. 1 saw'
no bike or motor-bike. I saw no cripple propelling
himself in a wheeled chair. I saw not one dog, save
here and there a carefully muzzled animal leu by a
visitor at the end of a string. I came aefoss not
even a pet monkey, though 1 did see tw'o cats —
presumably Venetian cats. So the streets are, as a
rule, all pavement from w'all to wall, and the Vene-
tian walks in the middle or anywhere. He is safe in
his native city, but w'hen he goes abroad to Rome or
Paris the first hearse runs over him and he is no
more. One reason why the Roman or Florentine
cabby yells like a fiend at every pedestrian is the fear
that the man on foot may be a Venetian visitor and
not responsible for his actions. In the great square
of St. Mark the cafes even put scores of tables and
chairs out where the tram-line ought to be, and
their patrons sit there and drink and smoke and
listen to the music.
There is too much music in Venice. Every morn-
ing is Sunday morning by reason of its holy calm,
and every night is Saturday night by reason of its
bang and its unholy crash. My bedroom at the
Hotel Danielli looked out on the beautiful Grand
Canal in front. A side window looked out on a
cafd with a band of about 20 performers. I could
have slain the conductor with my water-bottle any
night. On Sunday night I took aim at him, but
hesitated. On Monday I did the same. On Tuesday
I got legal advice, and learned that under a law
passed in the reign of the Doge Marino Falieri, cen-
turies ago, anybody who threw a water-bottle at a
band conductor had to pay a heavy fine, also buy a
new conductor and a new bottle, and then be perman-
ently excluded from Venice. As I would hate to be
permanently excluded from Venice, I took to per-
vading the quiet streets per gondola till a late hour,
so that my band might tire itself out before I went
to bed.
You can traverse Venice by land, of course, but
as there are bridges everywhere, with a flight of
steps on each side of each bridge, there are few
points about it. The Venetian house has a front
door leading on to the street and a back door lead-
ing on to the water. And by reason of 1100 years
of experience the Venetian baby doesn’t seem to fall
into the water. Now and then the Venetian small
boy throws things at the passing gondola, but then
the small boy is the same everywhere.
The streets vary from a great w ; dth down to
about 4ft. They seem quite sufficient, as all the
traffic is on foot.
The animals of this city are (1) the tame pigeons
of St. Mark, which can be induced by a halfpenny
worth of corn to climb all over the visitor and sit
on his head, to the great detriment of his belltopper.
Then there is (2) the hotelkeeper, who belongs to
the carnivorous fauna. Further, there is (3) an
erect or partially erect creature with a strange habit
of holding out its right fore paw, palm upwards. I
believe it is called a waiter. It certainly seems to
be waiting for something. The wild animals of
Venice are the waiter who hasn’t been tipped and
the gondolier who ha*f received his exact fare. Wher
the gondolier recognises that you are a stranger he
often stops about 20 yards short of his destination
to ask if you will tip him. A penny extra will do.
Twopence will make him feel glad. If you tip him
well at the beginning of the trip he will make
heroic efforts to show his gratitude by. dodging past
rival gondoliers in narrow channel® and then wild
Italian language is sometimes exchanged, and the
path is strewn with objurgations. The best thing of
the kind I met with was when I gave the highly
respectable gondolier attached to the hotel 3d. on
condition that he made extra speed to the railway
station. A slow-moving barge blocked the way for
fully half a mile in a narrow canal, and when my
aquatic charioteer had failed in his third attempt
to dodge past, he (so far as I could guess) told the
bargemen frankly what he thought of them?
The railway gets into Venice across a bridge which
seems about 30 miles long, though I suppose it is
less. It stops on an island, like everything else in
the old half-drowned city.
You go through 45 tunnels on the way to Flor-
ence. This place looks beautiful from the sur-
rounding hills, but when you consider it closely
it isn’t Florence but Flossie. It is battered and
pretentious. It is faded, and unkempt about the
back hair, and frowsy- about the skirts—or out-
skirts. Its ways are narrow and crooked, and its
soul —which is the River Arno —is shallow. It is
noisy at night and untidy all day. Its great
cathedral is done up externally in four colors —
black, white, red and dirt. Florence, a few de-
cades ago, was much larger than it is now. Like
the drab lady who keeps the hash-tower, it has in-
deed seen better days.
On the hills above it stands Fiesole, which was a
town and a fortress before either Rome or Exodus
was born. It is a wondrous dirty place trimmed
with dogs, and garnished with gaunt mules. When
you look up at Fiesole from Florence it promises to
be a place of surpassing loveliness, and when yon
look down from Fiesole upon the great city of
Flossie it looks like a gem set in the midst of Para-
dise. There are two disordered sisters who in a
manner guarantee each other’s respectability, or two
insolvents who endorse each other’s bills.
FAMILY SKELETONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The heirs of a family in France are fighting a
curious case over a skeleton which has been for many
years in the family. —News item.
Family skeletons, stuffed away,
Rattle and stir when the feast is spread,
Chilling us through when we would be gay,
Turning us ashen, or pink, or red.
Ugh ! how we shudder when bones long dead
Mock with their sepulchre sounds our play !
Yet, brothers, why should we live in dread?
Sell off your skeletons! Make them pay!
People I know of could fill a dray,
Pile it with horrors from which they’ve fled;
Even the youngest would pipe “Hooray!”
And sounder sleep in his little bed;
Skeletons sit on our hearts like lead. . . .
If in their cupboards they will not stay,
Market them all at so much per head!
Sell off your skeletons! Make them pay !
Vain is it cither to curse or pray;
Useless your tears whether pent-up or shed ;
The bones will weather your final day,
And follow your hearse with rattling tread ;
They fret and gnaw at life’s shoddy thread ;
With muffled knockings they slowly slaj'.
Brothers, revolt! Be no longer bled !
Sell off your skeletons ! Make them pay!
Final Whocp.
Rags, bones and bottles! In these are bred
The sorrows that sour from June to May.
Send for a Jew with a cart or sled !
Sell off your skeletons ! Make them pay !
N.S.W.
SAMUEL SKULL.


When the lady opened her pie she
discovered the head of a mouse, cooked
and apparently ready for eating. The
lady’s appetite vanished. Inspectors
are now making inquiries to discover
how the mouse so lost its head as to
make portion of a pie— Argus.
Mr. Q. IWoriarty (Fitzroy) said that
it was not good to see the police going
on to the playing ground. A man liked
to be hit to see if he could stand it.
(Renewed laughter.) A good rally or
knock-down did no one any harm, pro-
vided it was well meant.—League /Meet-
Si ing Report ? i
m J//, •
jftjft- I
A l+e -
- Walter, Yt\for % I j
r~ found -noasc «n'«»y f>»e .
\ Vv l^1 ' Well, mam, wW'd'c*
\ you expect - for 'rti<''j3j?ence —.
It Is doubtful If many temperance
champions are aware that alcohol Is
found in milk. Vet such is the case,
according to Dr. Rothera. in his lecture
at the University, on the chemistry of
milk. ill I! illlllll II 111 |
J„„bo -‘L*""*. ' yvel '' T,e *" r ,
I ,o $ 1-done r « i« -
\iKed I7OW he ItKta "
]i' behesed ( 7ow' C
itigti Co^^'SS' 0 * m J ones
w.fr noTlon* ••rferfere
v/irt V»s
dufic^
ow.lfye Bulkltn Know^
WKxT is Hie
wVjo "Comes home “tf?e milK
HUMANE SOCIETY’S list >
SOME PLUCKY CHILDREN.
The first recipient was Ernest Charles
Bullard, aged nine years, who had
rescued his brother from drowning.
There were delighted cheers when his
' Excellency, after handing over the cer-
tificate, lifted the boy off his feet and
kissed him.
-And l£ €n ill
. yo*»
"trs ife boldest - 'too-fzs.*'
Thos«. *' '€, | 'VJ &‘ ‘,l€ <* ret-€iVe4
for Irxserf.
? Y/by, o(-
r?oT~ 'HAjjJjily
•fte * r) ° r
injured .
The fact has always stood forth with j
extraordinary distinctness that Liberal- -
ism is a commanding power, that it is
the greatest motive force in political
life, that it modifies, and even doml- (
nates, thought in the two extremes of
s Socialism and Toryism.- -Age.
•- B
jktiad cv/ op vyc Jv ;
- ShocKino eff«-
Op *■" r *)C’ Con'^' r ’°l I
op A^elbourr?£
s<eWice S«en’frowj
•#& opfks.
It would be quite possible, and not at
all unlikely, for a Government authority
to erect centre poles along the principal
streets, and thus spoil the whole appear-
ance of the city, besides creating a
gravely dangerous obstruction. Money
would be saved by disfiguring Mel-
bourne, and what motives would the
representatives of country districts have
to heed the remonstrances of the citi-
zens ?— Argus, on Qovernment control of
trams.
(/\rgv/5 ton Control of-^
L.WI P^ r .-/3
" The s^a s S\, >
fortfy
ordinary
J a.m tf/e commwni'ifig r
motive fbrce.
in
hj-e. I (
*ndV
fjomtnav^c.
tf/e >
oj y om.
THE SOUTHERN ASPECT.


LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS & WHITTY,
Melbourne and Sydney. [,
McKENZIE’S excelsior baking powder.
CLEMENT-
BAYARD
Motor Cars
Speak for Themselves.
Extract of a letter from
the late Manager, “ Motor
Transit Company of Aus-
tralia,” Glen Innes: “ During
the time I was managing
‘ The Motor Transit Co. of
X
SSESBB
c
:v:
B=li.p. 2-cylinder Clemr nt-Rayard Car, to land, £250-
be U tween a Glen e in h and Inverell an 11-16 Clement-Bayard Car, whicn we purchased as second-hand We
did about 60,000 miles with her up to the time of my leaving- (she is still going well). Nearly all the running
was done between Glen Innes and Inverell, over the famous Waterloo Range, some of the grades of which
are one in six. The Car was invariably overloaded, and was given very little care , but in the face of the bad
usage she received at our hands she “tood up wonderfully well, and the only repairs that were effected were
two ball races for road wheels and a set of new valves.” ~ „ hi»i,
Call and allow us to explain the reason why our prices for Cars generally, Commercial Lorries and High-
wheel Buggies will be found to be 25 per cent, lower than the usual Sydney quotations.
In
Stock.
10=15=h p 4 Cylinder, fitted with one wide Seat and Boot at the back, £365*
I2=lB=h'.p'., 4 Cylinder, fitted with Touring Body, £475.
15=h p 6 Cylinder, fitted with high-class Touring Body, £550.
Sole Agents:—
Office —
Oarage—6
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
; & 8 Underwood Street, off 37 Pitt Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23=25 HUNTER STREET.
ABORIN-
ALITIES
ASSIMILATION.
In an address during the religious service con-
nected with the Feast .of the Weeks, known as She-
vous, Rabbi Abrahams declared that the greatest
menace to Judah was assimilation of the race
with other peoples.— Age.
ISAACSON: “ It'th true, it'th true! Loog
arount you, and you vill thee dot dthe Jew
ith Hoiking all hith dithinguithing feadureth .’
“Cross Cut” : Allow me to write on white
ant and teredo-resisting timbers, after 25 years’ ex-
perience. The reason why many of our timbers are
destroyed rapidly is because they are cut when
the sap is up in the tree, instead of down. Another
fact. Ti-tree and swamp oak, cut on the banks of
Cockle Creek, last in the water for 10 years, while
similar stakes from other N.S.W. districts do not
last a few years. Teak is a valuable timber, a
better ant-resister than turpentine, but it is not
found plentifully. I experimented a few years ago
with blaekbutt, turpentine and stringy-bark. Pieces
were retorted and placed in water, side by side with
pieces untreated. Found, in nine months, the un-
treated blaekbutt had been eaten througn by teredo,
while the treated timber was untouched. In my
opinion, if the Government sent small portable re-
torts to the timber-cutting districts, and insisted on
the timber being cut when the sap is down, and then
retorted, the lives of wharves, bridges, etc., would
be doubled.
“Clancy”: The most irascible party in the
bush is undoubtedly William Wagtail. My mate
and I once camped with him for weeks together, and
the way he behaved was disgusting. He never did
a stroke of work about the camp, except catch a
few flies, and no matter what we did he’d “rouse
on us. Jack and I were doing some contract fencing,
and at daylight, Bill, who slept out, would come
into the tent and start cursing because breakfast
wasn’t ready. He would tell us what a lazy pair of
blanks we were, and remark that how we were going
to clear enough to pay the store account he didn t
know. We would hurry through breakfast, and Bill
would hunt us out of the camp, swearing volubly,
and then return and have his own breakfast com-
fortably by the fire. Once we came home early from
work, and Bill gave us such a tongue-banging that
afterwards, when we did knock off a bit on the
early side, we used to go shooting or visiting rather
than go home and face Bill. Jack wanted to tell
him to clear out (he said it was worse than having
a cook in the camp) ; but just about that time Bill
brought a little lady along, and then what could we
do? He was a bit shamefaced over it at first, but
was shortly as brazen as ever, and used to force her
(she was a shy little thing) to come in and have her
meals with us the same as he did. He treated her
fairly well till she started flying about with bits of
straw in her beak ; then he showed his true character,
and used to curse her the same as he did Jack and
me. The sight of a snake used to drive Bill nearly
frantic; he would rip and tear as he fluttered around,
till Jack or I went and killed it, and those were the
only occasions he seemed to soften to us at all.
(P.S.- —Bill was about right. After squaring up at
the store we had 2s. 3d. left.)
* * * *
Letter received the other day by a Sydney
firm, which had intimated that is was opening out :
Seeing your advt. in to-day’s paper, I thought it
just possible you might have an opening for another
hand. I have nothing to recommend me, but am
simply a walking Cyclopedia of general uselessness.
I’ve been a carpenter, painter, plumber, general
busliman, miner, explorer, farmer, engine-driver, sol-
dier, and God only knows what else. And m the
lot I’ve done nothing to brag about. I have
only one virtue left —1 don’t drink. But Ive been
into every other difficulty under the sun. And I m
still alive. Yours truly is 45 years old, and stony
broke; having lost all I had copper gouging, so please
reply by return post.
“Wang”: Will* some obliging expert bet
me drinks that black wattle isn’t the hardest Austra-
lian wood to cut in an absolutely dry state? I’ve as-
saulted it with a razor-like axe, and knocked more
chips off the steel than off the wood; and I’ve used
a medium sharp weapon on it, and mostly sprained a
wrist and hardly dinted the timber. If there is any
harder wood to carve in the continent I’d like some-
body else to be introduced to it —it’s no good to me.
* * * *
“Tiaki”: The Maori has some peculiar
methods of supplying the larder with victuals at
times. For instance, dur-
ing a visit to the Ure-
wera country I accom-
panied Rongo to get some
tauhou, or white-eye
(sometimes known as the
blight bird), which is
about the size of a giant
bumble-bee, to frame a
stew. We went to a clear
patch in the bush, and
Rongo put two forked
sticks, about 4ft. high, in-
to the ground; then he
laid a small sapling from
one to the other, like a
ridge pole; next cut a
stick like the handle of a
bullocky’s persuader; and,
after that, squatted under
the contraption and chir-
ruped. The tauhou hur-
ried up to the ridge pole
to see what the chirruping
was about, and was imme-
diately swept to destruc-
tion by the persuader. In
an hour’s time a heap of
dead birds was ready for
the pot. I was told, too,
that, in order to have pork
handy to the kitchen, a
young wild boar, when
caught, is emasculated, his
eyes gouged out, and he
is allowed his freedom in a
patch of whinau (Eleocar-
pus dentatus ) trees. Piggy,
being very fond of the ber-
ries, and having neither
eyesight nor amorousness
to lead him astray, is al-
ways on hand when Ile-
nare’s stomach rings the
bell. There were no cruelty-
to-animals inspectors in
the Urewera at that time.
“Mimosa”: A few years back I bought in
Sydney some 300 pink galahs to take to Africa.
They were placed in a large cage, alongside the stall
of an unbroken mare, who kicked the side of the
cage in. Result: A speedy exit of parrots, 1400
miles west of the Leeuwin. The birds rose from the
hatch like “homers,” got their bearings, said “adieu”
to the steamer, and, steering in the face of a half
gale, made a “bee line” for Australia, the last dis-
appearing about 1 p.m. Nearing dusk, a lascar told
me a parrot had returned to the ship. While catch-
ing it a couple more returned, and, in ones and
twos, they kept returning till 2 o’clock next morning,
their arrival being heralded by a “flop” on the deck.
They were in a very exhausted state, but only about
40 failed to get aboard again. I’ve often wondered
how many of that number reached their beloved
Australia.
“Calafanc”: Have been helping to divest
the jumbuck of his overcoat at one particular station
in this district (Central Q.) for the past few years,
and last shearing and this have come across a fair
amount of the wool tinged with green and bluish-
green. Also, this year have secured a small quantity
with a pink discoloration. There is nothing extraor-
dinary about variegated wool —it occurs in most
flocks"—but, in the cases I mention, the discoloration
affected only a small patch in the middle of the
staple, with wool of the usual jaundiced hue at each
end. Most of the local cognoscenti, with whom I
have discussed the matter, look sceptical, and scorn-
fully inquire about the brand. Wish some of toe
more practical “Aboliars” would come forward with
a reasonable explanation.
IMITATION, ETC.
STOCKMAN : "T hey tell me, Jacky, that you're
going away for a while?"
JACKY (who has heard manager talking) : "Yes,
by cripes, mine tin kit I go Sydney—see
my people
“Snakespeare”: For the infermashun of
the publik in genril (subherben bushmen in per-
tickler), i, threw the meejum Of yure valu-
bull paper, wish to tel orl i no re snaix. 2 begin
with their are menny snaix and of varius speechies,
sum are long and uthers are not so long, some are
not the same kuller as uthers, the blak snaik is blak
orl over but he as a bellie the kuller of a oringe.
the biggest of orl snaix is not a snaik, but the bore
instructer the most dangerus of orl snaix is the ones
witch you dye from, the best way 2 find out if a
snaix is venomus or not is 2 let it bite you, if you
suckum the snaik is venomus; on the uther and if
you don’t suckum the snaik is armless. The first
snaik was the won in the garden of Eden (N.S.W.) ;
he was a baby snaik.
“Jack Jay”: Ever met the vegetable
caterpillar in Australia? It is quite a common cir-
cumstance in Maoriland. The Maoris call it awheto,
and the women used to find it a great bore in their
kumara patches. Henare’s chief, occupation, in old
days, was looking after the fleshy part of the meal,
and the missus did most of the cultivation. The
caterpillar burrows in the ground in preparation for
its change to moth, and while lying there the
spores of a fungus settle on it, always at the back
of the head, and suck the life out of it. The outer
husk remains. Some have been found with the
wings of the moth showing. The caterpillar is from
lin. to 4in. long, and the vegetable that grows from
it is about the same length.
“Sheila”: At a banquet given in honor of
the Federal M.P.’s at Samarai, the 59-acre Papuan
patch south-east of Port Moresby, one of the Par-
liamentarians, in a burst of enthusiasm, declared the
place an “emerald gem in a sapphire sea.” Samarai
is a beauty-spot all right; but had the orator pro-
longed his stay for, say, a month, and experienced,
some of the discomforts one has to put up with
there, he would probably have considered the request
of the residents that £2OO per annum be the mini-
mum wage for a “white” employed on the island
anything but unreasonable. Rain falls on an average
20 days monthly, in short tropical downpours; at
times fresh meat is unobtainable, even from the
cattle farm on the neighboring island of Sareeba;
and to be forced to consume yams in place of pota-
toes is apt to make Little Mary rebellious. Further,
if the after-dinner speaker discovered on rising in
the morning that the cockroaches had had supper
off his finger-nails during the night, he might have
his doubts whether the island gem was of the first
water.
* * * *
“Con. D. O’Bolin”: There was frightful
commotion at Gundybank. The morning of the races
dawned clear and bright after a week’s steady rain,
and the population of the neighborhood, whiskers
trimmed and spurs burnished, arrived at Holmes’s
pub, only to learn the awful tidings that the teams
with the complete supply of grog on board, were
hopelessly bogged eight miles out near the sand-
hills. A motion was being sorrowfully carried to
postpone the meeting, when Tea-tree Bill uprose.
“Blank it all,” he shouted, “what’s the matter with
holding the [blanky] races out there where the
waggons are stuck?” That night the stags lobbed
home with the barrels —empty—escorted by Gundy-
bank, waving a hiccough and declaring that it had
been to the besht [blanky] racesh ever held in Horse-
tralia. i
“Jack Jay” : The pipiwharauroa, or shining
cuckoo of Maoriland, at which “Konini” hurls a curse
(B. 22/6/T1), is not confined to the Dominion,
though that seems to be its main breeding-ground.
It is a migrant, arriving among the Maori birds in
the spring. That it loafs on other birds, and chiefly
on the grey warbler, for the hatching and rearing of
its young, is quite true; but it is doubtful if the
warbler suffers so much as “Konini” thinks. She
seems to be a motherly little thing, and many years’
experience of the cuckoos’ imposition has not greatly
reduced her numbers. Also, “Konini” may take heart
from the treatment the tui gives Mrs. Pipiwha’s egg
when she finds it in the nest. Out it goes with a
“biff, bang” ; or if by error the tui hatches the un-
clean thing, the chick’s life is not worth a moment’s
purchase. If Mrs. T. catches Mrs. P. near her nest,
Mrs. P. has to fly for her life, and gets such a scare
that she probably drops the egg anywhere.
*,* * *
“Pick” : “Ironbark” mistakes the reference
in his quotation (B. 29/6/Tl) from the yarn of the
“Plash Shearer,” wherein that “glassy agate” an-
nounced the packing of his “turkey.” The “turkey”
in the case was the “shrewdy-pot’s” pack-animal,
not his swag; and “turkey” is the term used for
“horse” by every shearer who disdains the common,
garden names of “moke,” “prad,” “alligator,”
“cradle,” “bone-rack,” “Lazarus,” “rocking-chair,”
“cushion,” and so forth. Anyhow, a “neddy” is pro-
bably often referred to by titles which “Ironbark”
will not find in his dictionary. A friend of mine,
who nightly, when it is cold, , commandeers the rug
from the back of a neighbor’s poultice-bearer, calls
the gee-gee the “blanket-warmer.”
“Berkeley”: Of course snakes mesmerise.
Here’s further proof. One of Brown’s cows sud-
denly cut off its evening milk supply, though it con-
tinued to dispense the fluid each morning; so Brown
took a day off —the first for years—to watch her.
Late in the afternoon he saw a black-and-tan snake,
9ft. long, crawl out of a tussock of cocksfoot and ap-
proach the' animal. The reptile emitted a gentle,
purring sound, beating time with his spiked tail.
When he had attracted the cow’s attention, he gazed
amorously at her until she consented, whereupon the
seducer wound himself about a hind leg and sucked his
fill of milk. Then he commenced to fill a small tin-
can that was hanging around his neck ; but at that
moment Brown fell upon him with the whisky bottle,
and he left hurriedly. Everyone knows Brown and
Brown’s cows, so this can easily be verified if neces-
sary.
THE GOOD SPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The racecourse out at Puntalong was thronged with
sharps and flats,
And for the Stakes the punters had a cert, inside
their hats;
Two nags—no more—were left to face the flag; and
to the crowd
The Saveloy seemed just the horse to do his backers
proud.
The Saveloy, hot favorite, was rushed by everyone
Who thought he knew a thing or two; yet, ere the
race was run,
With mirth upon his countenance, for all the world
to see,
One waggish book howled “Three to one the field!”
persistently.
It was the sort of battle-cry which instantly appealed
To those who heard him bellow, roaring “Three to
one the field!”
And every brand of punter came and rocked his
dollars in.
To let the moment pass, it seemed, would surely
have been sin.
The bookie’s pale assistant pushed his pencil all he
knew ;
His pallid gills turned greenish-grey and gradually
blue.
“Blank-dash!” he gasped. “Wot? Three to one!”
The bookie went ahead
And raked in all the cash he could. “ ’Ere, three
to one l” he said.
The flagster flagged the start, the horses ambled on
their way ;
The pale clerk almost wept to see them teeter past.
“I say!”
He yapped. “Wot, three to one the punters’ ’orse ?
There’s only two
Blanked starters in the bloomin’ race! It’s on the
rocks for you!”
The horses neared the entrance to the straight, the
Saveloy
Tn front; and backers yelled loud yells of almost
perfect joy.
The bookie gripped his bag, what time the pale clerk
did a groan.
“Ain’t I a starter, too?’’ he grinned—and tore for
parts unknown.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
THE NEED OF THE MOMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIM.]
“We want reform,” the speaker said;
And bright the hall-lights danced upon
The bore’s bald, round, pink, shiny head;
His crimson nose with fervor shone.
“We need reform,” he said; “and one
Reform we can no longer spare;
We need it now!” He paused, to run
Quick fingers through his scanty hair.
“And what reform is that?” he cried,
Above a rumbling, rising storm.
“Dunno, old man,” a voice replied,
“Unless, maybe, it’s chloroform!”
VICTORIA.
STONY.


hfd
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
The Wretchedness
of Constipation
Can quickly be overcome by
CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable act surely and
gently on the liver. Cure Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, and Indigestion,
They do tlieir duty.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
In a “Story of 90 years hence,” Kipling tells how
on a gusty winter’s night he started in an airship
with His Majesty’s mails from a 300 foot London
G.P.O. Aero Despatch Tower for Quebec. He ar-
rives next morn, after a good breakfast. You should
read this. It’s in the breezy style that cheers. Both
romance and reality are deftly intertwined and it
skilfully portrays what may be some day. It’s a
dream, but such materialise. Phillips Ormonde,
patent attorneys, 266 Flinders St. (Elevator), Mel-
bourne.*
A.N.A. Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in-
dustries. I shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
PLASMON OATS
Scotland s Best —“ Enormously increased
in food value by the addition of Plasmon.*
4 Minutes Boiling only. — Lancet.
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: 5& 7, Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Ginger”: To “Yalgun,” “Border View,”
and the few others who have had the manly, British
sense of fair play and boys-of-the-cowbreed courage
to stand up for the dairy cocky, I hand up a pint of
the best milk. I owe a lot to the industry. Why,
even when I was only 10 I played—l mean I took a
humble part in its development. Every morning I
got in the cows, helped to milk, carried per boot
three gallons of the juice to the local hospital (which
was two miles away, and had to be reached before
6.30 a.m.), served various customers in the township,
returned to breakfast, school at 9.30, home again,
got in the cows, milked, had some sleep, then more
cows, and so on. By such a training did I acquire
those habits of sobriety, industry, hardiness and
thrift which have inspired the eloquence of pro-
truding politicians in a hundred school-rooms in our
country. Sober? Where are the cow farmer’s
“slaves,” as I have heard them called, who spend
their time idling over hotel bars stroking the bar-
lady’s hand ? Eh ? Industrious ? Can one of you
find even an infant loafing on a dairy farm? What?
Hardy? Well, if ability to toil steadily from 3
a.m. to 9 p.m., make a hearty meal of bread and
treacle, and do with six hours’ sleep on hard boards
isn’t a proof of hardiness, what is? And thrift?
Why, out of my 15 bob a week —but, there, I’ll
leave it to your imagination. Yes; I owe the cow
industry a lot, and if ever I get a fair chance I’ll pay
it back.
♦ * * *
“Pick” Black Mary is not always a down-
trodden and submissive worm. I know the Binghi,
who, among his campfellows, is reckoned the best
dealer of stoush on the N.S.W. South Coast; yet,
when at home, he is the most cringing husband of
my knowledge. He is lawfully married, and per-
haps that accounts for it. In spite of the chronic
lassitude that has always heavily afflicted his tribe,
his lubra drives him to work, and with his earnings
she holds high jamboree or dissipates the wealth at
euchre. When, some time ago, he became wearied
of his married blessedness, and got a two days’ start
in a bolt for Gippsland, the dusky three-quarters
caught him this side of Bendoc and landed him back
by the wool.
* * * *
“Q.C.” : If anybody has an attack of white
ants in fencing posts, this is how to cure it —
or, better still, to prevent the attack. Bore a hole
in your green timber half or three-quarters of an
inch in diameter, on each side of the posts above
the ground, deflected at an angle downward, to the
extent of four or five inches, according to the thick-
ness of the wood. If the posfe are narrow, one hole
at each end will be sufficient. Fill the holes with
salt, ram well, and plug the openings tightly with
short wooden dowels. The salt will eventually per-
meate the sappy timber, and make it immune from
anticitis.
* * * »
“Scatto”: Saw the most-repaired vehicle
in Australia the other day. It was a sulky driven
by a bush cocky. The wheels were bound together
with wire; most of the spokes were made of sapling,
wired into place; wire held the tyres to their job;
each wheel, had four sapling pieces wired across it
inside and outside; the harness was held together
by wire, string, rope and raw hide; there was no
crupper or breeching; the collar was stuffed with
aged bagging; the reins were of binder twine; and
the splashboard of the contraption was made of the
sides of an old gin-case. As a matter of fact, the
only parts of the original that I could see were the
shafts.
HER KNIGHT DEFENDER.
FRIEND : “Aren't you frightened of burglars
visiting your place — it’s so lonely?”
WIFE: "Oh, no; we’d welcome them! There
is nothing my husband would like more than
a good rough-and-tumble with desperate
burglars.”
“Ah” : My first acquaintance with White-
ley King was in the big shearing strike, when, as the
P.U. secretary, he was anathema in the union
camps. Now his name is handed down to posterity
as the universal bush moniker for any old long-
necked billy-can. Can any battler older than myself
explain why? Was he a long : necked man? Long-
necked treacle tins always go by that name, so they
may. have something to do with it.
COW-COUNTRY LUCK.
FIRST COCKY : “ D’yer 'ear about Bill?”
SECOND COCKY: “No; what’s ’appened to ’im?”
FIRST COCKY: “ Why, ’e's married a widow with seven kids.”
SECOND COCKY: “ Cripes! Some fellers gets all the luck.”
“Jeroi” : “Salt Beef and Spuds,” talking
about fencing-timber, asks what teak is like to last.
Good, if Are doesn’t get near it; but it is the most
inflammable timber that grows on the N.S.W. North
Coast. Ordinary “stringy” takes fire easily enough,
though red “stringy” (also known as red mahogany,
redwood and mountain “stringy”) does not. “Dy-
nong’s” scrub-box must be different from the Rich-
mond River kind ; here it grows fairly sound. White-
box (quite another sort) is more often hollow than
otherwise, and is the most favored by white ants of
all the timbers here.
* * * *
“Jeroi” : Have noticed that ironbark will
soon die if used as a fowl roost. Two dozen fowls,
adopting it as a bedroom, will kill a young ironbark
in less than 12 months. Don’t know whether any
other tree is affected this way. Know a red-gum
tree that has been used for years, and it seems to
thrive on the treatment.
* * * *
“Condot”: Re the par (B. 6/7/’ll) in
which it is mentioned that a new-chum cocky wanted
an injunction to prevent the shooting of rabbits on
his land, the story is beaten by a letter written to
the Vic. Lands Department. The intending cocky in
a previous letter had asked for some advice as to live
stock on a block which he wished to take up, and in
reply he had been advised to get a few head of a cer-
tain dairy strain. To this he replied that he had
no intention of keeping cows, as he was going to get
a milking-machine. He wanted to know which brand
gave the biggest supply.
“Leo Lear”: Have all the Abo-botanists
gone to the Coronation, that S’Africa has been al-
lowed to pilfer, without protest, the wattle as her
national flower ? Of about 400 known species of
acacia, 80 per cent, are indigenous to Australia, the
remainder being divided between the two Americas
and Africa. All the best of the flowering kinds
are Australian, and only known to Botha’s union by
importation. S’Africa’s chief acacia is the awful
camel-thorn, and bears as much resemblance to the
queen of our bush as a prickly-pear does to a rose.
* * # *
“The Hack”: What is the record length
of time occupied by a fired stack of hay in consum-
ing itself? Saw one burning near Keilor (Vic.) the
other night to the tune of a light southerly breeze.
It contained 100 tons, and was exactly 20
hours turning itself into a stack of ashes. Local
cockydom professed to be staggered at the rapidity
of the job; for myself I was staggered at the
gradualness.
“Leo Lear”: “A.W.A.” (B. 29/6/’ll) is
wrong in placing the white ant “at the top of the
ant scale in point of intelligence.” This so-called
ant is not an ant at all, but a termite, and belongs
to the insect order neuroptera, which includes dragon
and may-flies. Ants are first cousins to bees and
wasps, and are of the order hymenoptera. I should
say the American ant that harvests its own grain
would be somewhere at the head of the Upper VI.
form in the ant college.
* * * *
“Spreader”: While Jack Maori is no
long-distance worker, he can keep his end up with his
white brother on casual jobs. Fencing, and all kinds
of bush graft of the eatch-as-catch-can variety, he
will tackle, no matter how hard, and on his long
suit, shearing, the pakeha can’t beat him for quan-
tity or quality. And I’d like to say a word for sister
with the golden-dusk skin —she is a bonzer nurse.
Nearly all the larger M.L. hospitals have one or more
Maori maidens on the nursing staff, and they are a
three-cheer success.
“Nitellub”: “Condamine” (B. 15/6/’ll)
might find an antidote for adder bite in muriatic
acid, more commonly known as spirits of salts. With
that chemical I have cured bites, or stings, from two
scorpions, three centipedes, and one red-backed black
spider. If the spirit is applied to the wound im-
mediately (use a finger for the purpose) the pain will
get the sack in half an hour. In addition to the
above-mentioned beasts, I have also had experience
with the business end of bees, wasps and bull ants,
and for causing pain I give the scorpion the cake —-
unhesitatingly.
SHOCKING IGNORANCE.
COUSIN JACK MINER : “Gud day, comrid;
how be giitin’ on? Thee’st be lookin’ tol’-
able middlin'
ENTIRE STRANGER : “Er — l beg pawdon.”
MINER : “Darney me, con’s'n't 'ee onnerstand
plaain Inglish?”
“Ah”: Some of the “navvies” imported
from Whitechapel to work on Bananaland’s new rail-
roads don’t know a sleeper from a clothes-prop, or a
crowbar from a bar of soap. The other day, on our
section, the ganger, Dinny Sullivan, wanted a few dog-
spikes to finish a crossing with, and, as there hap-
pened to be some lying loose about the camp, he
sent the Hon. George Hawkins down, with instruc-
tions to bring along all the dogs he could find.
Hawkins was some time away, and when he returned
with an old brindle slut on a string, with six multi-
colored pups trailing behind, Dinny fainted on the
track. When he recovered he wrote out the Hon.
George’s time, and enclosed it in a note to the time-
keeper. It read: “Pay this cove off, and give him a
reference as a rabbiter.”
* * * *
“Brenon”: Here’s another one. It was as
hot as the place the Wowsers are naturally afraid of,
the mercury recording a heat which made the leaves
on the trees turn on their backs and crackle. Jacky
met me at the slip-rails. “You big budgery judge of
cattle, boss?” he said. “Yes,” I replied, wondering
what was coming. “Well, boss,” he grinned, “you
bin tink it this a plurry cow of a day, eh?”
“Wee McGregor”: Tell me this, one of
you. Why does a dog always roll on anything stink-
some that he happens across? I asked a newspaper
the same question a while ago, and the paper-man
said he did not know, but advised me to ask the dog:
and when I knocked at the editor’s door he grunted
at me. So I was wrong again.
THE ISLAND OF BORES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All my life I’ve been a victim of that dreary beast,
the bore;
When I’m working in my office he comes tapping at
the door;
And he ambles gaily in
With a foolish, bear-like grin;
r hen he takes a seat and fastens like a leech upon
my brain,
Till the platitudes he mumbles send a red-hot twinge
of pain,
Like a telegraphic message, to my store of matter
grey:
“Here’s the Vampire feasting on you! Can’t you
drive the brute away?”
But I mutter weakly, “No !
Wait a minute! He may go!”
Then my guilty soul transparent does the monster
riddle through
With his formula eternal: “Now, I’m not disturbing
you! ”
“Not at all!” I brightly answer, and the foolish
coward’s lie
Sets him droning with fresh vigor when again he’s
caught my eye;
For he needs my optic dim ;
’Tis a sort of guide to him
If my strained attention wavers from his pointless
anecdotes;
So he holds me safe in thraldom while he blithers
and he gloats;
And I dare not even murmur, and I cannot look
around,
For the wretch has mesmerised me, and I’m fettered,
stunned and bound;
So till he is out of breath
He keeps boring me to death;
And I’m utterly exhausted when at last he goes away,
For he is the Boring Vampire, and I am his helpless
prey.
I have hatched a scheme for dealing with the mon-
ster dull and vile;
It requires a secret service, and a lone, mid-ocean
isle;
You will only need to write
To a secret head at night
Something in this awful manner: “I accuse Tobias
A.,”
And just mention where he’s living. He’ll be shad-
owed night and day;
Then if he has all the markings of the common deadly
bore,
He will one day get a warning—-just the simple
words, “No more!”
Through the medium of the post,
With the drawing of a ghost
Stalking closely in the footsteps of a fool with drill
and bit.
That will tell him he is labelled ; he must make the
best of it.
If there’s no improvement in him when a month or
so has gone,
And he’s walking home one ev’ning, he’ll be roughly
seized upon
By some masked determined men,
Who will truss him up, and then
Bear him helpless to a taxi, and speed swiftly from
the place;
Neither home, nor club nor office evermore shall see
his face;
But in harmless isolation, on the lone mid-ocean isle,
He will bore his boresome brothers at his peril all
the while;
There’ll be ev’ry sort of bore
On that lonely, surf-ringed shore,
And they’ll feed on one another and the seeds of
Hatred sow,
While the long and boresome seasons in a dull pro-
cession go.
Hermit bores will seek the mountains to escape the
droning pack,
And whenever bores pursue them, with large rocks
they’ll drive them back;
Sitting on a fallen tree,
Staring ever at the sea,
These will watch the passing steamers laden with
the prey of bores,
And look eagerly for shipwrecks when the cyclone
leaps and roars.
Woe betide the wretched sailor who is cast upon
that strand,
For the bores will swoop upon him when his hair is
full of sand,
And they’ll sit around and bore
Till the captive is no more;
Then again at one another they will dolorously
drone,
Or attack a hermit brother and get smitten with a
stone.
But there’s one defect about it, which I must admit
I see.
’Twould be dreadful if a warning one day came
along to me l
Just suppose that I was grabbed,
Bundled up, and taxieabbed,
And conveyed aboard a lugger to be dumped upon
that shore! . . .
What staccato screams of fury would go up when
each mad bore
Saw the founder of the System unprotected on the
Isle!
When I come to think it over, it seems hardly worth
my while! . . .
Sometimes in bad dreams I see
Something running endlessly!
As it flings the sand behind it, someone's mercy it
implores !
But it gets a howl in answer from the wild, pur-
suing bores t
N.S.W.
KODAK.


THE PUSH-MODERN VARIETY.
(Suggested by the fact that it was a Fat M.L.C. who last week talked of shooting Government inspectors; and it was Bruce Smith who talked most of
bloodshed during the Referenda fight, and a Fat Premier stole the wire netting, and a Tory ex-Treasurer threw mud and other insults at Justice Higgins.)


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are a safe and certain remedy for Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Liver Troubles, Flatulence, Anosmia, etc.
Sold at and Is. 6d.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
LATEST DIS-
COVERIES OF
SCIENCE.
A lady, who was lunching at a city restaurant a
day or two ago, discovered a mouse’s head in a
mutton pie. —Melbourne paper.
Overheard in a meat-pie under a miscro scope:
"Fancy meeting you! ”
“Colonel” Hoskin, chief-sec. of the Austra-
lian Salv’army, is back from London, with
despatches from “the General.” The old
man has lost the use of one eye, but his
voice is louder than ever, and, at 82, he is
meditating another trip to Australia.
9v Barron, who died in Wellington
(M.L.) the other day, at 76, was the founder
of Maoriland’s Hansard staff, and for 20
years its chief. Previously he had been
an interpreter during the Crimean War, a
purser on P. and O. boats, and an inky way-
farer on two of Maoriland’s early organs—
the New Zealander (Auckland) and the
Advertiser (Wellington).
Evidently it doesn’t take the right kind
of man long to learn the aviation ropes.
Henry Robert Busteed, who left Brunswick
(Vic.) three months ago to try to hook an
aviator’s certificate, landed the fish in six
weeks after first shaking hands with J. Bull.
He is, as far as this paper knows, Australia’s
first home-grown licensed aviator, though
Hammond is a Maorilander.
Rev. C. P. M. Bardin, one of Victoria’s
pioneer parsons, has crept silently across.
He was a Trinity College (Dublin) man,
and a schoolmate of George Higinbotham’s.
Coming to Tasmania in ’5O, he spent a few
years preaching to diggers and cockies, and
then for 40 years was rector of Christ
Church, Brunswick. For most of that time
he was chaplain at Pentridge, where he was
known as a kindly old man, always eager to
make “my flock” a trifle less uncomfortable.
THE “HORRORS ” OF SOCIALISM.
The farmers have been meeting in conference in
various States, and everywhere the outstanding
feature has been the number of demands for State
action and aid. —News item.
The “Liberal” press lias backed up every such de-
mand. — Fact.
THE OLD LADY: “Now I’ve helped you get
it, you'll be sure not to throw any of it
over the fence, won't you!”
F. J. Edgar, who may succeed M. J. Cody
as Governor of I’entridge prison (Melb.), is
a member of a pushful Wowser family.
One brother, W. H. Edgar, was lately made
an acting member of the Weary Government,
and has been acting strenuously ever since.
Another brother, and the most important, is
the Rev. A. R. Edgar, who once figured in a
struggle over a will. As may be recalled,
the Law declared the will a won’t so far as
the Reverend w r as concerned.
E. A. Rennie, the fine, granitey old man
who, as Auditor-General, told the truth about
the finances of N, S. Wales for a quarter
of a century, died last week, aged 90. When
he retired, four or five years ago, a Bulle-
tin man had an idea that he would be full
of interesting things about all the poli-
ticians and others he had met since he joined
the Audit Office in 1846. But the old man
knew absolutely nothing about politicians or
politics: he had lived with the State’s ac-
counts under his pillow, and, as to them, he
had all along told what he saw, turning not
one inch to the right or the left. The son of one
University Professor, he was the father of
another, and of other men and women of
brains and pertinacity.
The M.L. branch of the Royal Humane
Society has been listening to an interesting
and apparently authentic yarn. A Chatham
Island boy, seven years young, named Her-
bert R. Clough, was left in charge of his
sleeping baby brother and a sister.
The room caught fire, whereon Herbert
led the girl out, then rushed back, wrapped
baby in a blanket, and brought him out;
and finally tore down the burning curtains,
dragged in a tub of water, beat the flames
out with a wet broom, and collapsed. After
a strenuous few moments like that, a little
faintness would be excusable even in an
adult.
Died at Liverpool (N.S.W.) the other
day, aged 82, J. D. Browne, who left an
interesting letter in his cabin. It was ad-
dressed to Browne’s father, by the Gover-
nor’s secretary in 1816, and ran this way:—
On account of the large capital, nearly £20,000,
which you propose to embark here in mercantile and
farming concerns, . . . his Excellency will make you
a grant of 3000 acres of land, and assign 12 cows
from the Government herds on a credit of three
years. ... You will also be assigned eight Govern-
ment men, to be victualled from the King’s store for
the term of 18 months, to facilitate the agricul-
tural pursuits You and your family will also
be victualled from the same period for 18 months
from the King’s stores. The Governor will further
direct an eligible town allotment to be marked out
for the purpose of your erecting a dwelling house,
stores and wharf, near to Dawes Point battery, in
the situation solicited by you.
Browne was a member of an old Irish
family, the head of which is the Marquis of
Sligo, who, as Lord Ulric Browne, a bache-
lor 70 vears of age, succeeded to the title
three years ago.
Donald Campbell, one of the S.A. Labor
members, will finish his course for the LL.B.
degree at Adelaide University this year. He
has done his studying and his politics to-
gether, without neglecting either, and has
generally got first-classes in his law subjects
He is articled to Glynn, M.H.R. Donald is
by profession a journalist, and suffers under
the handicap of being accounted the wittiest
man in the Assembly.
Premier Jack Verran is short and squat.
He generally occupies the middle of the
Treasury Bench in the Assembly, with At-
torney-General Denny beaming on one side
of him, and Treasurer Vaughan sardonically
smiling on the other. The vision evidently
gets on the nerves of the Opposition, for
Peake declared the other day in the House-
“ The Premier looks like Sir John Falstaff
between the Merry Wives of Windsor.”
Frederick Alderson, of N. S. Wales, who
has been appointed Chief Instructor in Phy-
sical Culture to the Commonwealth Cadets,
has been for years the brains behind the pub-
lic-school demonstrations in Sydney— -spec-
tacles which at various times have induced
visitors to dig into the dictionary to find the
thing that is more than “admirable.” Bv
the time Alderson has done with it, Austra-
lia’s kid army ought to be able to shoulder
its rifle without breaking its back.
Mrs. Margaret Hawdon Chambers, who
died a few days ago at St. Kilda (Vic.),
belonged to a family that did its share in
making Australian history. Her father ran
the first mail service between Sydney and
Melbourne, mainly with the help of Binghi.
Her brother Joseph was a well-known over-
lander, and was one of the leaders of the
first party to travel from Melbourne to Ade-
laide. The lady herself helped to found the
Melbourne Children’s Hospital.
James T. Boylan, who passed over to St.
Peter a few days ago, aged close on 90,
arrived in Auckland (M.L.) in 1647, and
watched the small collection of huts grow
for 64 years. He was a member of the first
Provincial Council of the province, and re-
presented City West for years. Though he
helped to found St. Pat’s Cathedral, Me-
chanics’ Institute, Auckland Savings Bank,
and a score of other local institutions, he
had for years past been very little heard of
in connection with any of them.
Melbourne’s oldest and best-known P.M.,
J. A. Panton, was at the laying of the foun-
dation-stone of the new city court the other
day. The ancient ex-beak, who last month
attained his 80th year, is still tall and
straight, but is almost blind. A special
toast was proposed for him, and, in the
course of a reminiscent response, he recalled
that in 1852 he was a Crown Lands Com-
missioner, in which capacity he had the same
status as a magistrate, and in those lively
days held courts mostly in the open air, or in
slab huts.
Robert Dodd, one of
the best-known press-
men in Victoria, died
a few days ago, after a
tough fight with a
painful disease. He
started his journey on
the Inky Way as agri-
cultural editor of the
Leader, and after-
wards became travel-
ling representative of
the_ Australasian, in
which capacity he vis-
ited practically every
station in Victoria and
Southern N. S. Wales.
Subsequently he was
promoted to be agri-
cultural editor, and
filled that chair with credit. He was
a good friend to many pressmen when they
were cubs at the game, and they will keep
him in affectionate remembrance.
Ex-Sergt. Ewing, of the N.S.W. police, who
died at Gunnedah lately, was the oflicer to
whom Spicer, the leader in the Lambing Flat
riots, surrendered. Ewing, of course knew the
whoie crowd, and winked as Spicer handed
himself over. The fact was that Spicer
and his mates had a run of claims that
"wanted capital,” and with Spicer’s consent
his mates gave him up to bag the reward,
lhey got it, and Spicer enjoyed the fruits
later on. The old ex-sergt., who had retired
-M years ago, formed the first police camp on
the Lachlan Goldfields—a camp that after-
wards grew into the town of Forbes.
Regarding a musician who has earned his
harp:—
J- Stevens, who died at Adelaide the other day,
,'?? was one of 10 boys who got their bread
tu t . an “ musical education at the expense of
the late Queen Victoria. He sang in her Chapel
Koyal, and wore her gorgeous gold lace (40 yards of
it) and white kid gloves. A fellow chorister was
air Arthur Sullivan, who, at 11, having written i
religious solo, dragged young Stevens along with him
to obtain from Jenny Lind permission to dedicate it
to her. It was after a mad chase of this lady—to
get her signature to a contract —that Stevens’s father
died suddenly. Stevens, sen., was musical; so was
his wife; and their daughter received music lessons
trom Mendelssohn, who was a frequent visitor at che
Stevens home in Birmingham. Before his voice
uro'ce A' Stevens sang at the opening of the big
Exhibition of ’5l, at the Duke of AVellington’s
funeral m St. Paul’s, and at Jenny Lind’s three
farewells. When he grew a bit he met Gounod, who
told him how to conduct “The Redemption” ; Richter,
who gave him the first baton he had used in Eng-
land; Sir Michael Costa (one of his curios was the
last baton this great conductor wielded) ; Dvorak.
Bridge, Stainer and other celebrities. He saw
Wagner conduct his own works, and personally waved
the little stick before Santley, Foli, Tietiens, Tre-
belli, Albani, Patey and Sims Reeves at his best. He
conducted for the first time in Australia on Christ-
mas night, 1887. and founded the Adelaide Orpheus
Society, which lately had its ccming-of-age birth-
day. Stevens knew two million anecdotes, and told a
good story. He wrote a great deal on musical mas-
ters, but his best reminiscences go with him.
The frontisuiece to the big Coronation
number of T.P.’s Magazine is from a
Pamting of King G. by Will Dyson. Almost
all the illustrations and decorations in the
number are the work of “W.D.” and "Ruby
Lind,” who is Mrs. Will.
Eighties in the shade in London tell aw-
fully on our Wide Commissioner. An Aus-
tralian artist in the Smoke congratulated
-^ a ßer a recent hot ceremony.
Why, you received more cheering than the
King, said the Antipodean. “I needed it
more, answered George lugubriously, mop-
ping his brow.
Mrs. James Simpson, who died recently at
Brighton (Eng.), aged 96, was the widow of
one of the first settlers from Van Diemen’s
Land to follow Batman and Fawkner
across Bass’s Straits to the settlement by
the larra. He presided at the first meet-
ing held in Victoria (June 1, 1836), and
was appointed (on the motion of John Pas-
coe Fawkner, seconded by John Wood) to
arbitrate between individuals disputing on
all questions, excepting those relative to
land, with power to name two assistants
when he might deem fit. The Arbitrator at
that meeting was, practically, created the
chief man of the settlement. One of the
first, if not the first, arbitrations was that
between Henry Batman, brother of John,
and “John Pascal Fawkener.” Simpson on
that occasion called in Alexander Thomson,
M.D., and John Aitken to assist. For a
crust he kept a store on the eastern corner
of Flinders and King streets.
Touching the art of wearing knee-
breeches :
The late George Jenkins, of Melbourne, was re-
markable for more things than his bushy beard. He
stood alone among the knights of his Order as the
one man on this continent who had achieved the
“Sir” by flunkeyism, pure and simple. Mayors are
supposed to be public-spirited citizens, and Speakers
and Presidents are elected, by their fellows to authori-
tative positions. But Jenkins was never other than
a flunkey. When he was a young clerk in the rail-
ways he dropped into the Leg. Assembly hall one
night with a friend, and, pointing to the chair
where the clerk was dozing, said; That’s where /
mean to be.” And he got there. He was always “Oily
George,” and he greased his way from one position
to another. Meanwhile, a clerk of the Assembly
had “risen” to the softer clerkship of the Leg,
Council, and was styled Clerk of the Parliaments; So
George Jenkins, in due course, became that boss
flunkey, _ and was bo assiduous in biting the ears of
his official masters that after a while lie got himself
recommended for the proud distinction of C.M.G.
And so he went on, oozing oilness in Parliament,
and at “functions,” and everywhere that a free feed
was available, until Federation arrived. Then he
got himself made Clerk of the Commonwealth Par-
liament in order that he might figure as master of
the ceremonies incidental to the opening thereof.
The result was a bit of York jewellery, with knight-
hood to follow. Feeling himself to be a lethargic
object of ridicule in his new billet, among a crowd
of strangers, George Jenkins greased his way back
to his old place in the Victorian Leg. Council, and
there he stayed until his retirement last year.
LUCK!
BILL: “ Where's yer wife, Ike? ”
I KE: “Dead.”
BILL: “Dead? Humph! Well, ’ ere's luck.”
The little Protector’s new commander is
A. C. Dnnn, a S. Australian who was at-
tached to the Australian Squadron from 1901
till 1904, and has lately been in charge of
the Maine, in Britain’s stay-at-home fleet.
After the Boer war the Maine was presented
to J. Bull by Uncle Sam, who sent it to the
scene of trouble as a hospital ship, and was
too tired or good-natured to whistle it back.
The S. Aus. Government has decided, after
thinking hard, that it is compelled to “retire”
J. G. O. Tepper from his post as Entomolo-
gist at the Adelaide Museum. The Septua-
genarian Act no fine distinctions; but
was it meant to touch cases where no initia-
tive is needed, and next to no action of any
sort, but only experience? There seems to
be no obvious reason why a man should be
a less capable bug expert even at 90 than
he was at 45.
Died in Perth last week Captain “Dick”
Piper, who was mine manager of the Broken
Hill Prop, in the days when Australia first
began to realise that it had a mountain of
silver in its innards. Afterwards he moved
on to the B. H. South, where he was general
manager. Those were days of rapid promotions
—when a mine that could only afford a man
ager at £2OO one year could (or thought it
could) afford one at £2OOO the next; and, if
“Cap’n Dick” had been able to stand oats
better, he would have taken permanent rank
then as one of the big mining men of Aus-
tralia.
TRUCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W. H. Judkins is very ill of inoperable cancer, and
the desperate remedy of trying to kill the cancer by
injecting cultures of the most malignant erysipelas
is proceeding. The patient accepts the position
calmly and with fortitude.— Daily paper.
When you were in the fight,
And while we yet were foes,
Each had his views of right;
But now the issue goes.
You, with your narrow view,
Suspecting every smile—
Joy must be banished too,
That you might banish guile !
O'erweighted with the task,
Shooting beyond the mark,
Seeing not Man, but a Mask,
And struggling in the dark.
IVe who can see the earth —-
Poverty, pain and stress—
Pale with the pangs of birth,
Waking to heaviness.
Vice in the sealskin coat.
Chartered to do its will;
Virtue without a groat,
That never eats its fill.
Crime of the sweated wage,
Crime of the rentlord’s slum,
IVorse than the wild beast’s cage;
Crime of the pain that’s dumb.
Crime of all sneaks and thieves,
In gaol or in cushioned pew ;
Debt that the Christian leaves
For payment to the Jew.
Crime of the hypocrite,
Banning the chance-got child;
Crime of the wed-unfit;
Crime of the babe defiled.
Crime of the smug, content,
Hypocrite pulpiteer,
Saying that pain’s God-sent,
Bleating that “God is here.”
Crime of disease and pain—
Cancer, consumption fell—
And the filthy father’s stain,
That makes the child’s life a hell.
These are the things we fight,
For the Common and the Elect,
Using Logic to help the Right,
And the Cause to scotch Effect.
Now that there comes to you
Fight so stubborn and dree,
You have one task to do —
Have but one enemy.
Over the Party cries,
Over the shrieks of clan,
The oldest forces rise—-
Kindness from man to man.
Old enemy of debate —
Once that your fight began,
Banished the party hate,
Seeing no Mask but the Man !
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


S gag
M
*
'''''
sSMgu
ffiS
5 :•■•■;
JOB/S
n
5 :;.,!
H
.- _■ fja
Of* &
lllllp
. 1M
H
MW
Mil
RSSHBIB&KSSsffi
■r^msshk
m
MB
H
«
m
m
sm
mm
m
Ms
mm
tSM
:- '
£££
pi
m w
H
ll fit#
rofi&i£g» BSs N* TTTffV.A
■BpflflHi
:y::3yy.:: : VThA:RT7VV:
A
KHH
»r
x %v,< ?
’fe . sS
sy«jt « ■,», <u£
iff'
s -K
V
\ vs
fin
m;
'il
*" 6
ft Mm
m
mm
■JP',
T
wxsjSffl
; ■ S
lil
jrWm'i,
mm
”QfeH’■/
.... V
'•ife ■••'■. "■... ,
: .
set «
X
t
?# i t.
P^'t ;
fe\
THAT’S THE REASON !
/EARS of Australian sunshine, care and experience have made our wool top the world s markets.
L Similar factors have fought for the “Austral Suit.” Since 1868 we have put all we know and the
est material into it. As regards our range of tweeds, these have been selected from an experience
{tending over 43 years ; and we specialise m Australian woollens, all wool, pure wool and nothing
ut wool?” made by our old friends, Vicars of Marrickville. We quote 635., 705., 75s machine
lade, or 845., 90s? 955., 105 s. hand made, and, on receipt of a postcard, will send you full range
f patterns with self-measurement form.
Gowin
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
486, 488, 490 George Street; and 7,9, 11, 13, 15
and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON POMPS
For
ALL SERVICES
GAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
apm-y 32-34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
“P.D.” Grease & “P.D.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia, which
had a revaluation of assets in 1901, and transferred
£143,000 of forfeited capital to reserves in 1902: —
Dividends
Profits (3 p.c.)
(less loss on Writ- Added
on Assets Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. Off. s< rves! serves.
Dec., ’03.. £40,638 £31,759
Oapii al forfeited .. 1,500 206,292
June,’o4.. 38,746 31,759 £15,521
Dec., ’04.. 41,461 31,760
June,’os.. 39,470 31,760 5,000 2,710 210,169
Dec., ’05.. 42,530 31,760
June,’o6.. 41,055 31.760 5,000 4,295 225,234
Dec., ’06.. 44,351 31,760
June,’o7.. 46,423 31,760 5,000 9,663 247,458
Dec., ’07.. 51,678 31,760
June,’oß.. 52,015 31,760 5,000 15,255 282 661
Dec., ’OB.. 55,217 31,760
Written off, £295,000 ..
June,’o9.. 53,573 31,760 25,000
Dec., ’09.. 56,302 31,760 25,000
June,’lo . 55,002 31,760 25,000 )
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident Fund f 3,715
Dec., TO.. 59,557 31,760 25,000 2,797 6,512
June,’ll.. 58,804 31,760 30,000
Like the Bank of New Zealand the Commercial
of Australia passed the sickest-looking of its assets
over to a Trust to nurse and realise upon as oppor-
tunity offered. Apparently the idea was that the
bank might show a better face to the world if it
didn’t have to always own up to having this dread-
ful amount of wreckage on the premises. Nowadays,
however, the bank apparently feels strong enough
and reformed enough to admit its old misdeeds; and
it does that all the more readily because the people
who produced the disastrous results in the boom-time
have long since disappeared. The accounts now ac-
cordingly put the matter quite plainly:—
Capital £2,212,969
Deduct estimated deficiency in con-
nection with Assets Trust . . 952,635
Net actual capital .. ..£1,260,334
From that, of course, has to be deducted the reserves
accumulated by the bank. As profit in excess of the
dividend requirements is made, it is practically all
written off ; in other words, it is going to replace
the non-existent assets —the froth that disappeared
after the boom burst. Reckoning the bank and the
Trust as one concern (which they really are, because
the bank is responsible for the debts of the Trust,
represented by old deposits), the position has
changed in recent years as follows: —
Pref. Writ- To
Dividend ten Reduce
Profit. 3 p.c. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1908..
June, 1909.. £58,301 £31,760 £SOOO £21,541 1,058,850
Dec., 1909.. 66,711 31,760 5000 29,951 1,028,899
June, 1910.. 62,826 31,760 5000) 9 . „„„
Provident Fund .. 2000/ 24 ' 066
Dec., 1910.. 66,035 31,760 5000 29,275 975,558
June, 1911.. 63,239 31,760 5000 26,479 949,079
In two years the estimated deficiency has thus been
reduced by £109,771 ; and at that rate it would
take just upon 18 years to restore all the capital.
The question is whether it wouldn’t be far better
to have a cleaning up straight away. This could
be done with comparative ease by writing off some
of the present non-existent capital. Or, if it is
thought that there ought to be more share capital
in the business, some of the non-existent capital
could be written off and the balance could be made
up by getting in some new capital. It certainly
cannot do the bank any good to climb up to the
housetop once every six months and announce
that, though it professes to have so much capital, it
has lost nearly a million of it, and is busy screw-
ing and scraping to repair the damage. Moreover,
it can’t do any good to have it constantly before the
public that on some of its shares the bank pays no
dividend at all and on others only 3 p.c. No doubt
it can be argued that all these things haven’t ap-
parently affected it, seeing the progress it has been
making. Well, one never knows the progress that
it might have made. Also, it is just as well to re-
member that the country has been wonderfully pros-
perous during the past few years. It might be very
different if the public got the idea into its head
that the banks weren’t doing too well, and that their
position was none too strong. And the bank that
kept the public constantly reminded of past mis-
deeds would be likely to suffer most —and perhaps
most undeservedly.
Certainly the rights of the two classes of shares
would call for some adjustment. The old capital
of the bank is represented by 191,238 ordinary
shares fully paid to 10s. ( £95,619) ; the new
capital, £2,117,350, is in 211,735 pref. shares fully
paid to £lO. The ordinaries get no div. at pre-
sent ; the prefs. get 3 p.c. and cannot get more than
4 p.c. As the 4 p.c. would call for £84,694 and no
more, it looks as though the ordinaries might at
some future time get a very fat dividend. But the
ordinaries are outnumbered by the prefs., and each
share has the same voting power; so the prefs.,
with their overwhelming financial interest, are not
likely to let the ordinaries run away with big divi-
dends. Further, while restricted to 4 p.c., the pref.
shares will never reach par; and the public very
naturally has a prejudice—or is liable to be seized
with a prejudice—against a bank whose shares are
at a discount. And ordinaries will suffer from that
prejudice just as much as prefs. It should, there-
fore, be possible to arrange matters between the
two classes of shares to their mutual advantage—■
perhaps by putting all the shares into the one class,
giving the ordinaries one share for (say) seven of
the present denomination, and writing off as much
of the pref. capital as may be found necessary on a
revaluation of the assets. That, while cleaning up
the balance-sheet, would (1) give the ordinaries the
advantage of coming in on the same floor as the
prefs.; (2) allow the prefs. to get anything more
than 4 p.c. that the business can pay in the future;
(3) allow the ordinaries to get dividends forthwith
instead of having to wait indefinitely.
On recent profits the bank could pay 7 p.c. on
£1,400,000 ; and that could be made up as follows:
211,735 shares at £6 - £1,270,410; 191,238 shares
(ordinaries) ,< one £6 share for every seven 10s.
shares = £163,920; total, £1,424,330. The net
actual capital is now said to be £1,263,890, or
£170,440 less than the figures just suggested. The
deficit is merely a matter of estimate, however;
but if the estimate is correct —in other words, if
General-Manager Heron hasn’t got anything up his
sleeve—-it would be necessary to write off £5 in-
stead of £ 4 per pref. share; then, making the new
shares £5 instead of £6, there would be a total
reduction of £990,374 in the capital, and that
would leave a reserve to start with. The new capi-
tal would then be £1,200,000 in round figures; 7
p.c. would call for £84,000 a year (the profit for
last 12 months was £129,274) ; the holder of 10
present pref. shares, who now gets £3 a year,
would get £3 10s.; the holder of 100 ordinaries,
who now gets nothing, would'get £5.
The business is growing fast. This shows the 12
months movement:—
Liabilities.
June, TO. June,’ll.
Notes .. .. £215,622 £163,203 Dec. £52,419
Buis, etc 400,326 551,662 Inc. 151,336
Free deposits .. 3,000,562 3,359,117 Inc. 352,555
Deposits at interest 2,488,448 3,013,625 Inc. 525,177
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 2,948,383 3,106,571 Inc. 158,188
Advances .. .. 5,092,034 5,697,276 Inc. 605,242
Premises, etc. .. 430,6u8 428,205 Dec. 2,403
The liabilities (apart from the debts of the Trust)
thus amount to £7,087,607. The liquid assets are
equal to about 44 p.c. of that total—a very safe
holding. Including the Trust liabilities (oid de-
posits), the total liabilities amount to quite as
much as any bank should carry in proportion to its
shareholders’ funds (intact) ; and with an extension
of the business it may therefore be prudent before
long* to offer shareholders an opportunity to put up
more capital. But it will be advisable to have a
cleaning-up first.
* * * •
The Bank of Victoria
Di vidends.
t •, Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. p.c. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £31,354 £1u,419 £18,572 £5,363 £160,172
June, 1904.. 31,555 10,419 18,572 5,564 165 736
Dec., 1904.. 34,583 10,4L9 15,572 5,592 171,328
4 p.c.
June, 1905.. 34,260 10,419 21,225 2,616 173,944
Dec., 1905 .. 34,524 10,419 21,225
, 44 p.c.
June, 1906 .. 37,212 10,419 23,878 2,915 179,739
Dec., 1900.. 42,012 10,419 26.531 5,962 185,701
June, 1907.. 43,739 10,419 26,531 6,759 192,490
Dec., 1907.. 49,921 10,419 26,531 12,971 205,461
June, 19"8.. 50,063 10,419 26,531 13,113 ‘>lß 574
Dec., 1908.. 50,394 10,419 20,531 13,444 232,018
June, 1909.. 40,605 10,419 26,531 3,655 235 673
Deo., 1909.. 50,198 10,419 26,531 13,248 248,921
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
June, 1910.. 50,012 12,503 31,837 5,672 254,593
Dec., 1910.. 52,097 12,503 31,837 7,757 262,350
June, 1911.. 55,206 12,503 31,837 10,926 273,276
The lay-by for the half-year is a little better than
the average, but it is still pretty wretched. It may
no doubt be that the bank is making more profit
than it shows, and is applying what it doesn’t show
to the further writing-down of assets or the building
up of an internal reserve or contingency fund. But
there is nothing at all to indicate that it is so. If
the bank is only making the profit it shows, then it
is doing mighty little to help itself along in the
dull days that are to follow the present extraordin-
ary prosperity. And it is quite possible that it may
need a good deal of help. It will be very generally
admitted that values of most securities —land, build-
ings, stock, etc.—are high at present; also commer-
cial profits are for the most part very good, and ac-
commodation that a bank wouldn’t have thought
about a few years ago is now being given quite
freely. The bank business taken during the past
few years may, therefore, be dangerous; and the
bank which has made the largest amount of advances
while the high values have prevailed, is in danger of
being hit the worst by a slump. Now, this bank
has made rather rapid strides of late years. Here is
a comparison
June, June, Increase
1901. 1911. p.c.
Notes and bills, etc.. .. £709,048 £829,308 16'6
Deposits at interest .. 3,074,< 53 4,454,053 44-8
Free deposits .. .. 1,628,934 2,027,410 24'4
Liquid as-ets .. .. 1,638,011 2,063,317 25'9
Advances.. .. .. 5,011,291 6,664,309 32‘9
Prem.S'S, etc. .. .. 406,189 378,774
That is to say, it has added practically a third on
to its advances in the past 10 years, and the bulk
of it during the past three or four years. Undoubt-
edly this may be quite good business; but in times
of prosperity and high prices and profits like the
present, prudence demands that a substantial amount
of the profits should be put by to a contingency
account. The Bank of Victoria may be doing it;
but it is not doing it visibly.
The past 12 months have produced an unusually
rapid movement: —
Liabilities.
June, TO. June,’ll.
Notes in circulation .. £116,541 £77,655 Dec. £38,886
Bills, etc 574,690 751,653 Inc. 176,963
Deposits at interest .. 4,142,799 4,454,053 Inc. 311,254
Free deposits .. .. 1,871,642 2,027,410 Inc. 155,768
Assets.
Liquid assets .. .. 1,958,501 2,063,317 Inc. 104,816
Advances .. .. 6,135,139 6,664,309 Inc. 529,170
Premises, etc. .. 388,976 378,774 Dec. 10,202
This rapid increase in advances has made large in-
roads on the new deposits. The total liabilities are
£7,310,771; and the liquid assets are equal to less
than 29 p.c. of that amount. This is cutting things
very fine, unless a fairly large part of the advances
is of a very temporary nature. To work down to
284 p.c. may, of course, be good business; but there
are bankers who, in the present circumstances of
Australia, prefer 48 p.c. It may look a waste to
keep an extra 15 or 20 p.c. of money in cash or
liquid assets; but the bank with the big liquid re-
serve is the bank which is most likely to be able to
help its customers in time of stress (and, incident-
ally make exceptional profits for itself) ; and that is
the bank to which the cream of the business is likely
to go.
The earnings, calculated on capital and reserves
combined, have lately been as follows
Dec., 1906 .. £5 3 6 p.c. June, i 909 .. £5 18 4 p.c.
June, 1907 .. 5 5 4,, Dec., 1909 .. 517 2 ~
Dec., 1907 .. 519 6 „ June, 1910 .. 515 10 ~
June, 1908 .. 518 11 ~ Dec., 1910 ..6 0 3,,
Dec., 1908 .. 518 9 ~ June, 1911 ..6 7 0,,
The capital is £416,760 in pref. shares, and
£1,061,250 in ordinaries; total, £1,478,010. It
is a large amount for the size of the business; and
that no doubt is mainly why the profits are so
moderate. Thus, in spite of the recent rapid growth
of deposits, there is only about £4 ss. of the public’s
money in the business for every £1 of shareholders’
money. But that, while it tends to reduce profits,
also reduces the risks both of the depositors and
other creditors and of shareholders; for clearly the
shareholders’ £1 has more to do when it has to
protect £8 of deposit money than when it has to
do the same job for only £4.
* * # *
The Queensland National Bank
Towards
Re- Repaving
paid. Private Nomi-
Gross Written Govern- Deposi- nal Re-
Profits. Off. ment. tors. serves.
June, 1904.. £21,822 £9,822 £3060 £6,000 £39,000
Dec., 1904.. 21,823 9,823
June, 1905.. 22,009 10,009
Dec., 1905.. 22,307 10,307
June, 1906.. 23,421 11,421
Dec., 1906.. 30,420 14,420
June, 1907.. 34.783 18,783
Dec., 1907.. 43,606 23,606
June, 1908.. 43,482 23,482
Dec., 1908.. 43,737 18,737
June, 1909.. 44,158 19,158
Dec., 1909.. 44,432 19,432
June, 1910.. 45,626 20,626
Dec., 1910.. 46,174 21,174
June, 1911.. 46,275 10,275
Twenty-five years ago Queensland was beginning to
suffer from the same fever that it has a touch of to-
day. It had been enjoying some good times, and,
thinking the good times were going to last for ever,
it borrowed every penny it could lay its hands on,
and spent the money in a riot of extravagance. Of
course it didn’t call it extravagance; it called it
development.” The inevitable bad times came—
that is to say, drought and ticks and a few other
plagues came—and there was a terrible slump in
values. Sniffing trouble, depositors and other credi-
tors wanted their money; and when the banks and
other mortgage cos. asked their creditors to pay up
of course they couldn’t. Worse still, when the cos.
foreclosed, or thought about foreclosing, they saw
that they couldn’t get more than perhaps 50 p.c. of
the money they had advanced. The Government had
been hand-in-glove with the Q. N. Bank ; and to
help the lame dog over the stile the State borrowed
and dropped the proceeds into the till. Even that
didn’t save the dog; so the animal had at last to
face the situation and consent to have his tail cut
off. The arrangement made was that both State
and private depositors should forego interest on one-
foufth of the debt; that this one-fourth of debt to
the Government should be paid between 1917 and
1921; and that the private depositors’ one-fourth
should be paid only out of profits. That arrange-
ment is still in force, except that the debt to the
Government is now being expunged by annual instal-
ments (which may be paid in advance), the last
slice of the dead horse being due for removal in
1921.
Until the last of the one-fourth of the private de-
positors’ money is repaid, or until some other ar-
rangement is made, it seems that no dividend can
be declared; the directors have been so advised,
anyway. The shareholders (for, curiously enough,
the share capital was never wiped right out, as it
might well have been) are consequently very much
interested in the removal of the dead horse. This
shows what progress has been made with the job:—
Current Profits Rep id to Balance
Appropriated. Depositors. in Hand.
Dec^,'l9o3/ £72 > 000 Is. in £ = £51,939 £20,061
June, 1904.. 6,000 6d. in £ = 25,970 91
Dec., 1904.. 9,000
June, 1905.. 9,000
Dec., 1905.. 9,000 6d. in £ = 25,970 1,121
June, 1906.. 9,000
Dec., 1906.. 12,000 _ 22,121
June, 1907.. 12,000 6d. in £ = 25,970 8,151
Dec., 1907.. 15,000
June, 1908.. 15,000 6d. in £ = 25,969 12,182
Dec., 1908.. 20,000
June, 1909.. 20,000 9d. in £ = 38,657 13,525
Dec., 1909.. 20,000
June, 1910.. 20,000
Dec., 1910.. 20,000 9d. in £ = 38,642 34,883
June, 1911.. 30,000
£298,000 4/6 in £ = £233,117 £64,883
The balance in hand is equal to the payment of
Is. 3d. in the £, which would make ss. 9d. paid
off altogether; and as it has taken 134 years to do
it, it doesn’t look like very rapid progress. But
there is another way of viewing the matter. Under
the arrangement which lasted down to seven years
ago, the Government got a bite out of the profits;
the last payment on that account is shown in the
first table. The repayments to the Government out
of profits then stopped. Further, large amounts
have been written off; apparently many of the old
assets were still over-valued. it wili be noticed
that, whereas in the two years 1905-6 only £36,000
in all was put aside to repay depositors, in the past
half-year alone £30,000 was put aside. Now, what
amount remains to be paid? The next table shows
that and some other things:—
Dec., Dec., June,
1897. 1910. 1911.
Old debt to Government £1,833,327 £344,391 £344,391
Stock (fixed debt to old
depositors) .. .. 3,116,621 3,091,669 3,091,669
Debt to old depositors
payable out of profits 1,038,974 770,977 770,977
Old dubious bock assets
awaiting realisation.. 742,835 141,463
If £60,000 can be put aside per annum, it will
take approximately 124 years to pay off what is
owing. But as one year’s payment at that rate is
in hand, the period is reduced to 114 years. Whether
anything better than that can be done this paper
doesn’t know. Much depends on whether the man-
agement will think it necessary to go on writing off
profits. If the £10,275 written off in the past half-
year were applied to repaying the old creditors, the
disappearing trick would be accomplished in under
nine years, assuming present profits are maintained.
One feature of the present accounts calls for no-
tice. Hitherto there has been a line among the
assets- —“Private ledger accounts (debts in suspense
pending realisation of securities).” Originally these
presumably very doubtful debts stood at about
£750,000. No doubt they have bfeen written down;
very likely that is where a lot of the profit written
off has gone. Probably, also, a good deal of profit
not shown at all has gone into the same sink. Lately
values have so improved that, helped by the writing
down, these assets have been rapidly disposed of;
and now the item has disappeared altogether. This
may be taken to mean that one of the sinks into
which profits have hitherto been poured no longer
gapes for attention. Of course it doesn’t necessarily
mean that the bank’s assets are now all worth 20s.
in the £. The £770,977 owing to the depositors,
and payable out of profits, by the way, doesn’t
appear in the balance-sheet at all. If it did, the
assets would have to be inflated to that extent. This
very large amount written off (for that is what it
means) makes it more likely that the assets, in view
of recent rises in value, are worth something like
what they stand in the balance-sheet; but that
doesn’t alter the fact that, in order to really bring
them down to that value, the bank has to first earn
and then pay off £770,977. It may be that the
assets are worth more than the balance-sheet figures.
If so, a part of that £770,977 will, as it is paid
off, really become an internal reserve. It is ex-
ceedingly probable that this will turn out to be so.
As to current business: —
Liabilities.
1901. 1910. 1911.
Notes :: :: :: IK) £476 > 483 £424 > 070
Old debts 4,806,947 3,522,158 3,436,060
Deposits 1,686,965 4,606,615 5,252,263
Assets.
Liquid assets .. .. 1,637,961 3,289,078 3,665,192
Advances .. .. .. 4,811,102 5,392,730 I- fiQ7 cqq
Private ledger a/c. .. 617,898 156,467/°’ ’
Premists, etc 279,627 289,349 293,095
The new deposits have grown enormously. Advances
haven’t apparently increased much; but without a
doubt their character has changed. The cash posi-
tion is kept extraordinarily strong. It suggests
that the bank isn’t rushing advances. That is one
hopeful feature of the present situation; though
Governments are borrowing feverishly, and spending
money lavishly, to the great inconvenience in many
cases of other employers, the banks are going slow ;
and, in particular, they are not calling on John Bull
and Jamie Mcßull for assistance —“assistance” which
was the cause of the worst of the troubles in the
early ’9o’s.
* * * *
The Ballarat Banking Cos. (Ballarat, Vic.): —
Wrii ten Added
off Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £4004 6 p.c. = £2550 £250 £1204 £64.857
June, 1904.. 3977 7 „ „ 2975
Dec., 1904.. 3974 7 ~ ~ 2975
June, 1905.. 4028 7 „ „ 2975
Dec., 1905.. 4040 7 „ ~ 2975
June, 1906.. 4050 7 „ „ 2975 500 575 69,551
Dec., 1906.. 4098 7 „ „ 2975
June, 1907.. 4129 7 „ „ 2975
Dec., 1907.. 4007 7 ~ ~ 2975
June, 1908.. 4050 7 „ „ 2975
Dec., 1908.. 4079 7 ~ ~ 2975
June, 1909.. 4103 7 ~ ~ 2975 500 628 75,667
Dec., 1909.. 4160 71 „ „ 3187
June, 1910.. 4204 7/ „ „ 3187
Dec., 1910.. 4176 7£ ~ „ 3187
June, 1911.. 4276 „ „ 3187
\'' «■ “'one?, ,t £ S’S
”,} 11 S- > of the publics in the business. That means
ter tr of r< fact ry thp CUri h y f °i , tbe ande P° sitor - Asa mat-
pav half thp rtw l 1 a il d llq V I , d assets could almost
pay nait the debt to the public: and if the other
°? ly 9s ‘ 6d ‘ in the £ the y would
anci that the r‘ P ° S } tors and other creditors the bal-
+hiL e 4 at the ll ?, uld . assets couldn’t meet. But while
Calcu^tpd S n ? a - r f lS , ks ’ tt also means small profits,
earnings have been:- reSerVeS combined > recent
n'p moc '' £ = 2 2 p - c - °ec., 1909 .. £5 3 6 p.c.
Dee ’ ons " l 2 8 ” jM e,l!)10 .. 5 4 0 ~
ilec., 1908 .. 5 2 0.. Dec. 1910 5 ? s
June, 1909 .. 5 32,, June, 1911 ” 5 4 6 ”
tW rtUl ?n tel / + the l e isn -’t much progress shown
anvuihorn ll • t^ er , e lsn ’t much progress shown
tnHnn h r fi n t l - < ; bank s accounts. The little insti-
minW hfT lts< ; lf t°, Ballarat; and while Ballarat
™ n ' n » hf been steadily on the down grade, the big
has sat heavily on the fertile surroundings,
fh a nd, the railway policy of centralisation has stood
little path manufacturing progress. In its own
Dt*m way, it will very likely continue to be a
,i. ab e concern; but there are no prospects of
tions ln ®> hig springing up on the present founda-
/c Co-operative Wool and Produce Cos.
(Sydney):—
Bonus Added
. . to to Ite- Re-
”r°£' Dividends. Clients, serves, serves
p Pb -> 1899..
A b; i’ ' B’7BS 8 ’ 78S 6 .. ». 304 45116 3978 6,723
April, 1901.. 320 6,, „ 855
June, 1902.. 2,689 6 „ ~ 1409
June, 1903.. 1,625 6,, ~ 1306
June, 1904.. 2,012 6 „ ~1335
June, 1905.. 4,783 6 „ ~1335 1742 1706 10,170
June, 1906.. 9,526 6 ~ ~ 1335 3183 5008 15,178
June, 1907.. 10,669 7 ~ ~ 1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securities, £2615 .. 17,150
June, 1908. 8,066 7 p.c. = 1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written off securities, £2840 .. 18,312
June, 1909.. 9,572 10 p.fc. = 2229 2924 4419 22,731
June, 1910.. 16,482 10 ~ „ 2229 6283 7970 30,701
June, 1911.. 10,779 10 ~ „ 3973 5311 1495 32,196
Like most co-operative concerns, this one began
with a very limited capital, which presently, as
the operations grew, became much too small for re-
quiremcnts. Having 12 months ago acquired total
liabilities amounting to £16,130, and having further
outlay in view, the co. decided to get in more
capital. At that time, and for many years pre-
viously, it stood at £22,292. It has during the
year been increased to a level £40,000 ; and that is
none too much, seeing that the liabilities amount
now to £20,958. On the other side, however, there
ai 'c LPuid assets (cash and book debts) amounting
to £21,604. Practically all the new capital has
been put into the co.’s business premises, which are
now valued at £78,156. The past year’s profit
doesn t show up well when compared with the pre-
vious year’s; but the previous year’s was quite ab-
normal. For one thing, the poorer market for wool
in the past year hit the co. in two ways. (1) Had
the same prices ruled as in the previous year, the
commissions would have been £2826 more, accord-
ing to the management’s estimate. (2) With a dis-
appointing market, the co. shipped a larger quantity
of wool unsold. In all the circumstances, the re-
cord, m spite of the shrunk profit, may be regarded
as thoroughly good. Further, profits have been cut
into by increased expenses; and there is nothing to
grieve over in that. This is a co-operative concern ;
practically all the shareholders are clients; and,
while they are no more eager than other people to
pay big salaries and wages, they are certainly liable
to lose by a cheese-paring policy, which repels
good men. What the N.S.W. wool-growers, as a
class, owe to the co., can’t be put into figures; but
they can get some idea by comparing the charges
which have to be paid in Melbourne, where there is
no co-operative co., with those in force in Sydney.
Naturally the other brokers in Sydney owe this co.
something too; and just as naturally they are pre-
pared to pass the co. what is coming to it whenever
they get the chance.
* * * »
Theatre Royal Proprietary Cos. (Melbourne):
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1903.. £1254 3J p.c. =£Boo
June, 1904.. 1190 Nil
Dec., 1904.. 151 Nil £4497
June, 1905.. 902 Nil
Dec., 1905.. 823 Nil
June, 1906.. 842 Nil 1387
Dec., 1906.. 972 Nil
June, 1907.. 874 Nil
Dec., 1907.. 1200 2J p.c. = 600
June, 1908.. 1330 2J ~ ~ 600
Dec., 1908.. 1619
June, 1909.. 1494 2£ „ „ 600
Dec., 1909.. 1444 2! s ~ ~ 600 500 344 8433
June, 1910.. 1429 2.) ~ ~ 600 9000
Dec., 1910.. 1616 2J ~ ~ 600
June, 1911.. 777 2| ~ ~ 600
The co. has had to spend £404 during the half-year
to meet Board of Health requirements, and another
£378 has gone in building additions; hence the
reduced profit. The premises are leasehold, with
something under 60 years to run; and nothing is
written off the value of this wasting asset, which is
a mistake. The real profit is, therefore, less than
the accounts show, as a rule. Some time ago the
co. was forced into making big alterations, which
plunged it deep into debt; but by dropping divi-
dends for a while, a credit balance has been
achieved. This little list shows the workmanlike
way in which the liabilities were wiped off: —
June, 1905.. ..£9745 Dec., 1908.. ..£3395
Dec., 1905.. .. 9078 June, 1909 .. .. 2185
June, 1906.. .. 7951 Dec., 1909.. .. 1684
Dec., 1906.. .. 7151 June, 1910.. .. 524
June, 1907.. .. 6015 Dec., 1910 (credit) 148
Dec., 1907.. .. 5083 June, 1911 .. ~ 766
June, 1908.. .. 4012
That last entry is, of course, before payment of the
current dividend. The co. has to pay a ground rent
of £IBOO, and that first charge, which has to be met
whether things are good or bad, largely accounts
for the poor return netted by the shareholders.
Still, under ordinary circumstances, a good deal
more than 21 p.c. has been earned lately, though it
has to be again pointed out that the profits are not
true profits until something is put aside to replace
the wasting capital represented by the leasehold
assets.
The South Brisbane G-as and Light Cos. (Q.):
W T rit-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £3329 6 p.c. = £1654 £6OO £1075 £9,411
June, 1904.. 3110 6 ~ ~ 1654 100 1356 10,767
Dec., 1904.. 3342 7 ~ ~ 1929 100 1313 12,080
June, 1905 . 3011 7 ~ ~ 1929 3 1079 13159
Dec., 1905.. 3327 7 ~ ~ 1929 433 965 14,124
June, 1906.. 3016 7 ~ ~ 1929 4 1083 15,207
Dec., 1906.. 3438 7 ~ ~ 1929
June, 1907.. 3208 8 ~ ~ 2205 31 972 17,688
Dec., 1907.. 3940 8 „ ~ 2205 206 1529 19 217
June, 1908.. 4070 9 ~ ~ 2481
Dec., 1908.. 4805 10 „,, 2756 19 2030 22,836
June, 1909.. 4627 10 ~ ~ 2756 658 1213 24 049
Dec., 1909. 5329 10 „ ~ 2756
June, 1910.. 5456 10 ~ ~ 2756 252 2448 29,070
Dec., 1910.. 5666 10 ~ ~ 2756
June, 1911.. 4542 10 ~ „ 2756
The issued capital is in 120,000 shares of 10s. each;
of these 70,000 are ordinaries fully paid, and the
balance are prefs. paid to 7s. The paid- capital is


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys tinder
Power, Agents, etc.
Absolute Security, Efficient and
Economical Management.
Having handled almost every class of
Assets, it possesses a much wider experi-
ence than is possible for an individual.
Trvist Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
2, 4 (Sk 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Write or call for Booklet. Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Stee/, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
thus £52,500. There is nothing visible to explain
the shrinkage in the half-year’s profits; certainly
£750 put aside at the end of the previous half-year
may have been written off, but as all the reserves
are lumped, it is impossible to say whether this is
so or not. Gas sales have been steadily moving up.
In the half-year to the end of June, 1903, they
totalled £6965, or a shade over 18 p.c. p.a. on the
book value of the fixed assets (plant, mains, land,
buildings, etc.). In the past half-year they totalled
£12,336, or at the rate of over 26 p.c. p.a. on the
book value of the fixed assets. This means either
that the co. has been putting a good deal of undis-
closed profit into remunerative works, or that the
old works are more profitable than they were ; or it
may mean some of both. Those extensions of plant
out of profits have, however, to cover the depreciation
of the plant in general. In other words, instead of
putting by actual cash to renew works as they get
beyond repair, the co. puts that cash into new works
elsewhere, and trusts to being able to finance a.ny
big renewals as they fall due. What may be called
the cash position has varied as follows: —
Dec., Dec., June,
1903. 1910. 1911.
Liabilities.. .. £17,546 £17,053 £17,354
Liquid assets .. 3,859 13,412 12,922
Deficiency .. £l3 687 £3,641 £4,432
This means that the co. in 7-) years has (1) paid
the dividends; (2) paid for all repairs, renewals
and extensions; and (3) put by £9255. And, as
remarked just now, the extensions thus paid tor
have probably been pretty extensive. The co., there-
fore, has nothing to complain of in its past seven
and a-half years’ experience; it has indeed been re-
markably prosperous. Whether things are going to
continue like that is another matter; Queensland
will certainly have amazing luck if all future seasons
are like the past five or six have been. Neverthe-
less, the co. has so small a capital compared with its
turnover, and it has worked itself up into so strong
a position, that it would take a very bad knock to
put the dividends much below the present 10 p.c.
* * * *
Big Bill Baillieu has taken over that
lame dog in the manger, the V.D.L. Co.,_ paying
shareholders £39 a share, or £375,035, plus
£9565 for “commission, compensation and other ex-
penses.” Which probably means that the new co.
pays £375,035 and a few hundreds of the £9065
as “compensation.” The co. is to issue £460,000
4 p.c. debentures; £260,000 being first mortgage
and £200,000 seconds, both of 25 years’ currency.
There will be a sinking fund for redemption pro-
vided out of the profits of land sales, and .V.D.L.
shareholders may take, in lieu of cash, £25 m first
debentures, £2O in second, and £5 in fully paid-up
shares, or £SO of face value for each £39 per
share. Probably not a great deal of outside
money will have to be raised, as shareholders m the
V.D.L. have learned the lesson of sticking to a
leakv ship, and will probably elect to still stand by
it now that a live crew is pumping her out and
docking her. £IOO,OOO of working capital makes
the total money to be found £4B4,6oo—less, of
course, the amount that old V.D.L. shareholders
elect to take in debentures and shares.
Baillieu’s new co. may be expected to do quickly
what the idiotic old V.D.L. Cos. failed to do in a
century—hanging on to the proud job of being a
lord of the manor, and content to lose money in the
dignity. The new co.’s assets are not so big as the
acreage would suggest. The land was largely selected
in the manner Moses surveyed the Promised Land
from Pisgah. Button grass was taken because it
looked like the dear old English downs; and heavy
gum country was turned down because from a dis-
tance it lost its richness, and exaggerated only the
difficulties of clearing. In this way the V.D.L. Go.
missed 15,000 acres of excellent land at Marrawah,
and when a few young Tasmanian farmers discovered
and selected it, the V.D.L. Cos. vainly tried to steal
it all over again. Under the charter minerals are the
property of the co., and these rights may be valu-
able, because the V.D.L. Co.’s terms to the pro-
spector were impossible, and most of the _ country
has probably never been looked at, because in many
places the button grass would have to be stripped
to allow of it. It would have been better had Tas-
mania beaten its suscubus into decency or with-
drawal with a swinging land-tax; as.it is, the com-
monwealth tax has given to Tasmania the new pro-
vince it was afraid to take. Baillieu s Cos. is ener-
getic, and is out after profits, and to do that it
must cut up the land and sell it; so the new owner-
ship is a good thing. # #
Principal Westralian results for June :
Re- Value
Ton- venue. Profit. per
nage. £ £ ,)?'
Great Boulder .. ... 17,867 48,017 25,041 53 9
Kalgurli 10,790 23,294 10,400 43 2
Ivanhoe 19,306 40,045 18,010 41/6
Golden Horseshoe .. 21,802 34,890* 4,005 32/-
Boulder Perseverance.. 19,786 24,941 3,L3 25/3
Lake View-Star .. .. 13,028 16,408 1,269 25/2
Associated .. . - 10,041 1jj.372 2,145 . /
Great Fingall .. .. 10,383 17,483 5,094 33/8
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,320 11,703 1,624 25 1
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,806 6,440 2,800 46 3
Mararoa 2,610 6,00 2,250 46/10
Gwalia South .. .. 2,040 2,854 367 28/-.
Sirdar 1.400 1,041 465 14/10
Menzies Consolidated.. 2,053 3,444 123 33/6
Hainault .. 5,030 6,171 232 24 6
Boulder No. 1 .. .. 2,024 2,620 128 25 10
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 10,849 f 1,529 79 2/9
Lake View Consols .. 7,785 f 1,616 386 4 2
Chaffers .. -• 3,123 4,388 71 28/1
Ingliston Extended .. 750 2,160 461 57/7
Sand Queen .. .. 667 1,910 453 57/3
Oroya-Black Range ..
Morning Star .. .. 1.020 1,713 456 33/7
Oroya Links .. -- 6,623 7,202 2,916 21/9
Tda H .. 330{ 1,880 344 114/-
Northern Mines.. .. 6,739 7,105 537 21/1
♦Decreased output due to three days’ stoppage of
hauling and treatment operations, on account ot acci-
dent in main shaft.
jOld residues.
JFinal clean-up. Mill shut down till end of
August, to enable repairs to be effected and facilities
provided for the more rapid development ol ore in
the present bottom # *
Westralia’s June dividends amounted to
£110,460, making a total for the half-year of
£444 193 The July figures have so far reached
£76,719.
Bullfinches rose ss. on the official an-
nouncement of a bore-hole development at 210tt.,
but after it had dawned on the market that this rise
on a drill-hole assay, which indicated the possible
existence of Bft. of £4 ore ahead of the crosscut,
amounted to an increase of £125,000 in the mines
valuation, it drew in its horns a bit. According to
a local report, the co. will have to drive east to pick
up the continuation (if any) of the rich shoot
worked at and above the No. 1 level of the pros-
pecting workings.
’ Bull Ant (W.A.) is about to wind up,
which is about the best thing it can do. The cash
in hand is sufficient to pay shareholders 6s. in the
£ ; but if they wish it, Lionel Robinson and Dorrie
Doolette, who got the biggest cuts out of the flota-
tion, are willing to give them one Bullfinch Pro-
prietary for every two Bull Ants. In other words
these two, who have lately been buying up Bull Ants,
and who by this time must hold the bulk of the issued
shares, want to take the £63,000 cash in hand, and
give the other fellows Bullfinch scrip. By this
means they will get the money and pass on a large
parcel of Bullfinches without paying any brokers’
commission, and without running any risk of knock-
ing the market to smithereens.
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.) still exists, but how it
manages to do so is a mystery. Returns, giving
details of so many tons crushed for so many ounces,
are handed out every now and then; but, as usual,
there is absolutely nothing to guide the inquirer
as to what the output is worth. It may be fine gold,
or it may be only half-and-half, and in the absence
of this information, it is impossible to say how the
co. is doing. Judging by past results, however, it
can’t be having a very good time.
G. P. Doolette presided at the Boulder
No. 1 meeting, held in London on July 15, and did
his level best to cheer up shareholders. So far
neither of the mines worked by the co. in Groper-
land has earned its salt; but in speaking of the
future, Doolette held out great hopes of success,
and expressed what he called his honest belief that
when he again met shareholders he would be able
to report a better state of things and a bigger credit
balance.
* * * *
A comparison of two lengthy reports on
the Ida H. (W.A.) by the present managers (Hooper,
Speak and Feilding) and the late boss (Campbell
Shaw) shows that the former’s estimate of winze
values below 1000 ft. is 97dwt., against the latter’s
30dwt. Shaw accounts for the difference by stating
that the Hooper party’s samples were all taken from
the north side of the winze, where, owing to a
break in the country, the richest portion of the ore
is located. Shaw confirms The Bulletin’s assertion
that the co.’s reconstruction was unwarranted, and
has gone to London to ask the Board why it got rid
of him, and to present the other side of the picture
to shareholders. He estimates the gold in sight at
30190 z. (worth 795. 6d. per oz.) between the Nos.
6 and 8 levels, and the No. 9 level reserves at
64230 z. The profit for the last 15 months’ working
is given as £3789 ; but, with the new shoot to work
on, the monthly profits from the time crushing is
resumed in September are expected to average about
£1250.
* * * *
Having got a tiny reef and a few rich
assays at 100 ft., Greenfinch Prop. (W.A.) is telling
everyone that a battery is now a certainty. In other
words, the market is to be considered first. Next to
nothing has so far been done in the shape of de-
velopment, and with so much more to do, the pur-
chasing of a mill at the present time would be
simply farcical. Properly handled, the mine might
have some hopes of moderate success, but in anew
centre like Boodallin, it would be making the pro-
perty subservient to a lot of market gamblers to
order a plant on the resujts so far obtained. Sup-
posing the shoot dies early, as most of them do on
the Yilgarn field, what then?
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vie.), has de-
parted from old Zeb Lane’s plan of giving the height
of the stopes, and nowadays no one can quite tell
the extent of the ore reserves. Work is all in deep
ground. The 2225 ft. level yields three-fourths of the
stone, the rest being from the 2085 ft. stopes. There
has been an inversion of the usual order of things
at depth. The 1903 ft. level was abominably poor,
2085 ft. improved and 2225 ft. now gives the fair-
grade stone. So the question is, Is there a local
enrichment such as happened at the bottom of the
Long Tunnel Extended? At the bottom, 80ft. of
payable stone has been found south of the. crosscut,
where in the two upper levels there was little pay-
dirt. So here is a decided gain. North, in a drive
397 ft. long, there is good stone 175 ft. from the
crosscut. Beyond this small shoot is another 60ft. of
payable quartz, with the rest of the ore well min-
eralised, but poor. This invests the next sink with
the hope of longer pay shoots, though bonanzas are
rarely alighted upon in such tight country. Throw-
ing in old tailings, 14,939 tons last term returned
£20,524, won at a cost of £15,899; so that even
with the new slimes plant, there cannot be more
than a shilling to divide for the current term, see-
ing that work is now all in the bottom stopes. The
next lift is to be 175 ft., so it will be a hard race
between the sink and the battery.
* * * *
The world learns that control of Cock’s
Pioneer, Eldorado (Vic.), has passed from Jack
Dane to Hector Macdonald, of old North Lvell fame.
Dane has had plenty of time to option the claim,
but he hit London when, owing to busted Westralian
mines, J. Bull didn’t want much of his El Dorado.
Why go to J. Bull at all? Cock’s Pioneer is one of
the neatest little shows in the Cabbage Garden.
The barge is in a position to work, and there are
four floors in the face which prospect well. Past
records prove that payable gold exists in the wash,
so what is there to fear? The show won’t run
awav, and if shareholders dispossess themselves of
the "spirit of greed, they could let profit run up till
a second barge could be built. To chuck one of the
finest hydraulic sluicing shows in the State into the
hands of Bull, merely for a temporary gain, is mad-
ness. The thing to do is to also close down on Hec-
tor Macdonald’s power of attorney, and work the
mine for the company.
* * * *
Bravo, Peter Mcßride! And it’s to be
hoped he will keep both feet firmly on Mother Earth
over the Napoleon’s float (Vic.). The story that
John Bull is to put up £500,000 to test 2500 acres
of alluvial ground at Golden Point, near Ballarat,
after he has spat out of his mouth the nasty taste
left by the Moorlort, Rutherglen, and Ararat
fiascos, is thin pap. If the £500,000 is up. Mcßride
might be justified in giving leases, provided they
are kept manned ; but if only nominal capital is up,
then Mcßride should at the most let the promoters
take the pick of 500 acres at Napoleon’s, and return
the balance for other cos. Half a mile of the Golden
Point gutter would be enough for anyone to bite off
if the old run of gold lives down.
New* Good Hope, Gippsland, looks a very
sick proposition these times. The mine manager s
report on July 10 was: “Crosscut from Tunnel A in
290 ft. ; hard sandstone.” At the beginning of Oc-
tober last year call-payers were exhorted thus: The
crosscut from the lower level should be kept go l ug
to intersect the Good Hope shoot of gold at depth.
Your mine-manager estimates the cost of driving at
40s. per foot. In conclusion, I am glad to say the
prospects of the mine never looked better. And
that was in the face of a crushing which yielded 3i
weights to the ton, and was said by the management
to be “disappointing.” #
Charters Towers mines for the first half
of this vear paid £43,100 in dividends Calls took
£32.686, leaving a surplus of £10,414. The gross
value produced for the six months waj £261,135.
The New Brilliant Freehold headed the list of divi-
dends with £ 22,500. The East Mexican gave
£12,350, Brilliant Extended £6250, and the Cum-
berland P.C. £2OOO. Brilliant Extended crushed
26,980 tons of stone, Mills’ United 12,631 tons, New
Brilliant Freehold 9328 tons, Brilliant Stockholm
6747 tons, and East Mexican 4382 tons. Mills’
United did a good deal of development, and is now
crosscutting between its shaft winze and another
winze sunk on the hanging-wall side of the forma-
tion, preparatory to opening a level 300 ft. below
No. 14. The level will be driven eastwards, in the
direction of No. 2 underlay shaft. This is the most
important prospecting work doing at the Towers.
The Brilliant Block hasn’t yet been able to locate the
Day Dawn formation at 2150 ft. vertical. At the old
Brilliant P.C. shaft they will soon be in a position
to again explore the 1437 ft. level, which is supposed
to have followed the Day Dawn reef.
* * * *
Mount Morgan tries hard to improve its
smelting practice, but the change over to more
economical conditions is slow. Last month’s smelt-
ing included 13,763 tons copper ore, 718 tons
silicious ore, 7097 tons pyritic copper ore from Many
Peaks, and a quantity of copper precipitate from
the mundic works. All these products returned
563 tons blister, containing copper 557 tons, gold
72460 z., and copper matte containing approximately
£BSOO worth of metals. This return doesn’t admit
of a close calculation of the average extraction per
ton of ore. It is, however, pretty certain that the
average extraction is less than 21 p.c. copper from
the mixed Mount Morgan and Many Peaks ore, which
are now being smelted in the proportion of three to
one. This extraction may appear low, but it is
helped by the high gold contents, which, in this re-
turn, amount to a shade over 13oz. per ton of copper.
A total of 21,578 tons were smelted, making the
fourth successive return with increased quantities of
pyritic fluxes and a larger output of matte. The ex-
cessive production of matte and its lower grade is
due to the large quantity of sulphur in the pyritic
ore ' *
The bears continue to tip Mount Elliotts
as good selling; but there is a risk in the game.
Obviously a mine that can show a gross profit of
£IOO,OOO for six months’ run isn’t one to take
liberties with, more particularly when the financial
position remains a strong one after the payment of
15s. per share in dividends. Then there are rich
surface shows to be picked up in a district that is
rich in the red metal. No less than 500 tons of
rich oxidised ore were sent away from this Cloncurry
country last month, and among the largest consign-
ments is some high-grade stuff from two new mines,
the Answer and the Limestone. The owners of the
Answer netted £ll per ton in Cloncurry, the ore
being high-grade oxidised stuff. A team of 47 camels
is carrying rich ore from the Limestone mine to the
railway. Perhaps Elliott is playing a waiting game;
but its idle smelting plant certainly suggests the
purchase of custom ore. #
At Gympie the most important recent
event has'been the cutting of the Inglewood reef
some 370-odd feet from the shaft in the No. 2 S.
Great Eastern. This crosscut is at a depth ot
1750 ft., but the shaft is now 1945 ft. deep, so it is
likelv that a deeper crosscut will be started when
the shaft is down below 2000 ft The dionte forma-
tion, now being prospected, carries several reefs, but,
as a rule, the stone is low-grade; so it may take
some time to prove whether the Inglewood reef at
1750 ft. is payable. South Glanmire and Monkland
next door, recently cleaned up a crushing of biz
tons of Inglewood stone for 2900 z. smelted gold.
Costs are kept down, and 9dwt. per ton is made to
return a small profit. At levels above 990 ft. the
Inglewood doesn’t carry the huge body of crushing
stuff worked by the Scottish Gympie below 2000 ft.
It should be remembered that Gympie formations
are greatlv influenced by dykes and crosscourses, and
a concentration of gold has occurred only when the
geological conditions are favorable. #
No. 3 North Columbia, Gympie, crushed
819 tons for 1019 oz. smelted gold. This crushing
was obtained from the 1656 ft. level, the workings
extending 262 ft. north and 116 ft. south from the
western crosscut. At the end of the north drive
there is 18in. of crushing stuff, showing a little
gold, in good country. _ Some of the stopes disclose
large and payable bodies of crushing stuff, from
which a small quantity of specimen stone can be
picked. No. 2 N. Columbia, which at one time pro-
duced many rich specimens, is now seldom heard
from At the 1468 ft. level they are driving south
from the end of the long eastern crosscut, there is
a small vein of stone, and it is intended to rise on
this. In this show, hard conglomerate or fossil
country is often found below the black slate that
carries the gold. The conditions change so frequently
that mining at Gympie is always canted on j^ nde |
highly speculative conditions. At present, No. and
North Columbia is in good heart, while No. 2—once
such a favorite —is putting up a hard struggle.
Bluff Colliery Cos. (Q.) held another meet-
ing the other day, making its twelfth. The output
of saleable coal for the half-year was only 5/26
tons, as against 8301 tons for the previous half ,
the shrinkage is ascribed to active competition.
The Admiralty has ordered 300 tons, to be delivered
as a test between October and December ; but the co
isn’t sure that it can deliver the goods, as it is
suffering from its chronic complaint, want of money.
The coke works that at one time had prominent
mention seem to have dropped right out. One little
item that pleases the co. is that at the Mammoth
three leases have been granted. For this the co. has to
thank the Denham people; when Mullie Kidston was
in power he had ideas of making a State coal mine
there. However, Willie and his ideas have now
a State job, and the co., which spent £ 10,000 in
development, has at least some ofthe
wanted. But the mere possession of the leases won t
make the co. fat. *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) produced
274 tons of copper for the fortnight, so the output
is increasing a bit, as foretold. It is not to be expected
that Wallaroo and Moonta, with half a century of
work behind them, can outpace young Mount Lvell
but the South Australian show has only 160,000
shares or (sav) from 30 to 40 shares per ton o
copper produced. On the other hand, Lyell, bur-
dened in modern fashion with 1,200,000 shares, has
from 130 to 150 shares to whack the profit on every
ton of copper produced in a year, though, of course,
Lvell’s gold helps. Reckoning on a regular output
of 8000 tons of copper a year,, tte profiit on copper
hns to be £ls to give Lvell £120,000, or zs. per
share, while a modest profit of £5 per‘ ton of, ™etal
easily provides a 2s. divvy for Wallaroo. Still, ot
lnfp it has been a deal harder to make £4 or £5
a ton profit out of Wallaroo copper than it has been
to squeeze £ls out of Lyell’s cheaply produced
blister. * # * *
Stanley Reward, like many another of
Tassv’s tin whistles, is very much on the flat side.
Little J. B. Lewis is the anchor just now. If he re-
ports adversely, the flag will go half-mast instanter,
as was the case after he sounded Cybele and found
her a iarle. The claim, on the north-west side of
the island, was to bring check-suits to many of the
faded aristocrats of Collins-street. Fourteen shafts
have however, cut a reported 25ft. of wash down
to 4ft Below is png, resting on the limestone
bottom. The show is hampered by the poverty of
flip dirt bv the heavy wash and by its shallowness.
As a standtov the co.has a lode, which the manager
wants prospected. Lewis will have his say on this,
and as P the calls have rolled in nicelv, a last round
can be fought on the lode. The price paid for the
claim was £IOOO cash and £12.500 in paid-up*
As things have gone, the vendors ought to have paid
a premium to get their show tested. #
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings oi
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint.—Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The BELL’S ASBESTOS CO., LTD., London, hav-
ing purchased the works of the ci-devant United
Asbestos Co., is extending its manufacturing opera-
tions. Apart from producing every known appliance
of Asbestos for mechanical engineering and Asbestos
Packed Boiler Mountings and Steam Valves, the
company has erected a plant for the manufacture of
Asbestos Wall Sheets and Roofing Tiles, known as
“Poilite,” being the only factory in Great Britain
making this new fireproof building material. Head
office in Australia, 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “Wilfley.” It is continuous, and
consists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged
in a tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The
drum is covered with a filter cloth supported on
grooves on the drum, which are connected by means
of holes to the interior to allow the liquid to be
withdrawn. Through the trunnions at the ends of
the drum the vacuum pipe passes to the interior.
This pipe connects with the interior of the drum,
through which the liquid and air are withdrawn by
means of a vacuum pump. The filtered slime is re-
moved by a simple apparatus placed at or below the
level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly the
cake is removed, the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp
ready to receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the
sucking in of air, and consequent loss of vacuum
between the time the cake is removed and a fresh
one is forming. The residual liquid in the slime
cake is removed by distributing water over the sur-
face of the semi-dried cake. Owing to the fact that
the filter is circular in form, it will be seen that it
is continuous in operation, and has no complication
of valves to get out of order; furthermore, work is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manu-
facturing rights of this filter.* [2
* * * *
Extract from the Financial News, London
(29/7/1910) : —“The bonus is one of the best yet de-
clared, and, in the opinion of the actuary, ‘the pro-
spects of distributing satisfactory bonuses in the
future are better now than they ever were before.’
The Colonial Mutual has certainly earned its repu-
tation for financial strength and fair treatment of
policy-holders.”*
* * * *
A WOOD PIPE LINE only costs half the price cf
a steel pipeline, and four times less than cast iron.
It lasts as long as the latter and four times as long
as the steel. Ask the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, to send you a catalogue.*
SIMPITROL AIR GAS —the light that is nearest
daylight and almost as cheap. The Simpitrol Air
Gas System has all the advantages and none of the
disadvantages of other systems. It is simple, abso-
lutely safe, and is the most economical light you can
have, costing one-sixth that of electricity, one-quarter
that of oil, and one-fifth that of acetylene lights. It
is not explosive, and does not entail tedious winding
and regulating of burners. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia), Ltd.,
84-88 William-street, Melbourne. Dept. W.*
* * * *
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
Patents.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
I’ so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from F'elton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Nobel's Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide. *
» » * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to-
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000;
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination,
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*


HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
World
Renowned
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove. London,E.C,
R«B»R
By jovel you’ve no idea what
rctt;n tea they used to give us in
my diggings until 1 made them
get Ro-bah No. J Grade,
expressly for me—now, all the
jolly chaps will have Ro-bah
too, and they kick up a bally
row, don’t-cher-know, if they
don’t get it, don’t-cher-know 1
The Johnnie.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 24, 1911.
My Dear Aetni, —
On a drab afternoon last week Amelia J.
>upped up to a glass door that enclosed
the farmers and Settlers’ conference. Hav-
rng achieved a hurried glance at the length
and breadth of rural bone and beef inside,
she encountered a plump male Peri at the
?ate of the Hayseed Parliament. Amelia
has hayseeds and prize pigs in her own
family, so she understands the atmosphere.
Any women farmers, or lady silk-worms, or
females of any kind in there V” Amelia asked
in a whisper, and became more buried in her
hat. Mr Wetherspoon’s gun didn’t go off,
but the platform showed signs of weakening
interest m the rural worker, and stared at
the glass door and the feminine headgear
outside it. The body of the hall twisted its
neck, and turned round to find out what the
platform was gazing at. “Women farmers!”
'•aid the Pen. “No, there’s none of them,
an -j - no I women of an y kind in there.” He
said it slowly, as if they were taxes or ticks,
and wouldn tbe allowed in anyhow. Where-
upon Amelia J. fled into the friendly street
!>he had tipped up the deliberations of the
milk and butter department for nearly 60
seconds.
Governor Chelmsford’s paternal smile was
snapped by the Daily Mirror on the door-
M, e P of the Brompton christening party,
"he infant Margaret Sydney looked wise
enough to be a Home Secretary when the
camera caught her eye.
. Appendicitis keeps up its reputation as a
ingh-class luxury which arrives at the wrong
moment. Captain Rome is its latest Society
victim. The departure of Lord Dudley gets
another delay in consequence.
Australia’s High Commissioner Reid must
be breaking something. When it’s not his
rast it s his arm. The latest news about
the heavy-weight is that he is “doing well”
'iiuT motor accident, and daughter
lhelma is not as badly injured as was feared
at first. Her chief trouble, it seems, was
shock.
Pianist F. S. Kelly took charge of the
>aton when the orchestra tuned up one
afternoon last week in St. James’s Hall
His own composition, “Serenade in E
All nor, lor solo flute, with harp, horn and
string orchestra to follow at a respectful
distance, was lucky in having Lemmone to
pipe like Pan. The body of the hall had a
handsome top-dressing of furs and feathers.
Mrs. Harry Levy waved graceful purple
plumes. Mrs. Phil Morton’s yellow ostrich
tails drooped and “wept” in the latest
node. She was sandwiched between two
young daughters with close-fitting skull caps
on their heads. Rachel Joy, the Morton in-
ant, was presumably tuning up her little
wind instrument in fresh-air perambula-
tions. . Mrs. Forbes Angus took her trim
figure into a front seat. Conductor Joseph
Bradley came in to watch F. S. beat the air
—a quiet beat, more like a pat. In the or-
chestra Henry Staell, Bryce and Mowat
carter, and Brother T. H. Kelly drew the
~9. w , in graceful melody. Mendelssohn’s
Uctet in E flat Major” was their opportunity
tor fine fiddling. Mrs. John Toohey joined
the feathered flock —positively no 'egrets
an d the velvet toque of Mrs. T. H., with
a fluffy ostrich plume nodding over one side
was one of the handsomest headpieces that
adorned a wintry afternoon.
At the Dolores recitals in the Town Hall
the American pianist, Shrimplin, was on the
stool, with an occasional look-in by Edward
"• Sykes, most capable of accompanists. Mr.
bhrimplin has a worried expression and a
ock of front hair that gets lost in his fore-
head in acute crises. He needn’t worry about
his music—it flows along very nicely. A
small but appreciative audience, with an un-
quenchable thirst for encores, stamped the
floor at the first song-burst. There’s con-
siderable charm in the Dolores ballad sing-
,nf> because the back seats can hear every
syllable, a luxury they are not accustomed to
when the minor song-bird bites her English
between her teeth. The first-concert audi-
ence included Prof. Anderson Stuart, ac-
companied by the slim elegance of Mrs.
Stuart, with the plumpness of Artist Long-
staff to make a trio; Mrs. Ashburton Thomp-
son and a party; and a small sprinkle of
Society; and those who went once mostly
went twice.
Longstaff’s portrait of Prof. MacCallum,
with only a mild showing of University mil-
linery, is an intimate likeness of the genial
original. Probably it comes next to, or
even alongside of, the same artist’s “Lady in
Black, ’ in color and composition. Its tone
is moderate, and the subdued hint of red and
purple gown that hangs behind the coat of
every-day wear, is merely suggestive of
academic midnight oil. This picture does
everything but talk. Edmund Fosbery’s por-
trait, side-face, is painted in a cleverly-posed
attitude, with a characteristic “Discipline
must be maintained” expression in the tail
of the visible eye. There’s a small gaud—a
L.M.G.—just escaping from under the coat
collar. It is a fine likeness, and the original
is well known to the police.
Golf enthusiasts who play in all weathers
on the Rose. Bay links are liable to try and
pull a caddie with them when they break
into another world. The suburban travel-
ler, flying before last Sunday’s gale, saw. i :
he chanced that way, the lower Rose Ba
links under water; nevertheless, golfer:
under storm-tossed umbrellas stamped
across the swamp, and a small caddie, lik>
a wet, grasshopper, splashed through the
rain. 11 the Minister for Defence could
bottle up some of this superfluous energy,
hed be able to uncork a good brand of
water-proof militia for future service.
Nell Finnis limped on to the Criterion
stage, at the first night of “Sergeant Brue,”
to a heavy round of applause from a full
house. The sympathy which a handsome
young woman wins because she has sprained
one ankle at the Glaciarium may incite her
to hurry back and do something rash to the
other Manager Noble certainly ought to
take the name and address of the person who
sent a pair of new skates over the footlights
lo Miss I uims. A cartload of flowers handed
up tor the beaming lady may also be called
driving a girl to destruction on the ice.”
iNeils new frock as Aurora is a lovely film
of dove-grey, with a twinkle of cut steel'.
. Florence Imeson incautiously swallowed an
influenza microbe the other day. This wild
beast hasn t got her down; it’s only worrv-
ing her smile. Stalls feminine wore most of
their clothes round their ears, the evening air
being wet, and on intimate terms with zero.
A decorative bust was occasionally unveiled,
but the half-clad looked wistfully at Brue's’
padded chest protector.
Half Sydney (or thereabouts) is nursing
its own or somebody else’s influenza. The
outbreak is serious enough to have de-
manded the earnest attention of managing
directors and such like. One bank magnate,
having heard that 17 members of a neigh-
bor s. staff were “down,” called science to
his aid, and next day every hand had a cake
ot camphor passed to him, with urgent in-
structions to sniff it earnestly.
At the Glaciarium the black velvet skirt
still waltzes to the tune of “The Blue
Danube. Miss Harris, who grew into lone-
?£ e ®f. es buite lately (she is a daughter of
Matthew Harris), is getting clever on her
skates, and achieves many twirls on the ice
patch in velvet upholstery. Mrs. Rich
glides round in the same rich pile at a speed
that passes most of this season’s traffic.
Mrs. Bonthorne puts her pace on in a snuff-
brown tailor-made. Miss Lamb is usually
sage green on skates. Allander. in black
tights with a short Norwegian jacket, shakes
one leg in _ the air and revolves on a few
crumbs of ice. The mere novice skates on
his head; and the girl who is collecting
ideas tor the August carnival, sits down be-
side a sledge and wonders how she’ll teach
it to collect a prize.
Alcide Capitaine, who has black velvet
eyes, an ivory complexion, and slender supple
i 1 cll ,“ bs tbe air in gymnastic twirls at
the Tivoli. She began life in Turin, and
carries with her the liquid notes of Northern
Italy. Coming before the public at the age
ot three, she has since then had time to un-
pack wardrobe all over the globe. She
looks 2d, and admits she’s more. She hasn’t
a line ip her smooth, oval face; she has
heard of female nerves, but doesn’t know
them by sight ; she has a digestion that can
absorb anything—she’d swallow the paper-
bag if that kind of cookery were put before
her, and not notice the parchment flavor—
she s never ill, and she’s only tired when she
takes a holiday. “I mean this —if I rest more
than one week, or perhaps two weeks, then
I begin to feel —how shall I say it? Not ill,
because I am never ill. But more dull in
my spirits. Never ill? Perhaps once or
twice; for I have had the influenza, but kept
on my work through it. So, though Igo to
Turin to see my mother and brothers every
year, I seldom take holidays.” Thus says
Alcide, whose small head, with its crisp
waves of black hair taken back into a classic
knot, seems to have got into the wrong cen-
tury when it retires under the huge black hat
ot to-day.
This is the era of muscle on female fore-
arms. "Physical culture for girls,” says the
prospectus of every hoarding school. “It is
good so far as it Will go, the movement of
the arms, the swinging club, the exercises
for girls—they are so pretty! And—oh, yes
—they are quite lady-like. But for real
strength to build up—l think the boy’s way
best. He goes over the parallel bars. He
gets, if he trains the right way, more lasting
benefit. JNo; the girls, as I have seen them
in other countries, do not exercise enough.
It they want to be really strong they must
go much farther in gymnastics and be—shall
I say it?—not so lady-like, but more like
A oy j S ’ use their legs for the high jump.”
And Alcide Capitaine, who coos to you like a
gentle dove, has many golden reasons to
prove she knows her subject.
Apropos the shortage in Premier Fisher’s
Coronating nether garments—they were of
black velvet and reached only to the knee —
a belated item drops in. Wattle, junr.,
says that one of the civic fathers,
bidden _to a Crowning memorial feast
‘ m this city, received a placard of
invitation which contained the word
Trousers in one corner. The word
was isolated for closer inspection, and
underlined as one of the necessities
of life.
Coronation capers on Thursday Island
were many. The numerous goats became a
frenzied mob when the guns banged a salute
or something unexpected, and the local milk
supply nearly churned itself into butter. Su-
rety—. * te> black and tan—gathered to-
gether in an open-air corroboree. The
Bishop of Carpentaria looked in at the
revelry. Malays, Japs, Chinese and white re-
sidents wore their best light-weight garb, and
squatted round while speeches were made
about George and Mary’s June party. Sports
for youngsters in the tropic afternoon, and a
“Coronation ball” at night, made Thursday
island perspire freely.
George Fuller, is now trimmed
up in front by London scribes as “the Hon.
George Warburton Fuller.” A Cold Land
paper devoted to Australians abroad, recently
inquired wailfully why Londoners so fre-
quently mentioned Commonwealth poli-
ticians as merely “Mister.” Right-thinking
reporters, taking the poisonous hint, have
in consequence, been firing volleys of “Hon.,”
•Right Hon.,” and “Colonel,” with broad-
sides of K. 8., C.M.G., and P.C.
Miss Norah Anderson is accused of having
put her fluffiest ideas into the graceful mist
grey and rose frocking of the bridesmaidens
at the Osborne-Willis wedding. Miss Hold-
ship. Miss Laidley and Miss Kathleen Os-
borne were the attendant high-priestesses
at the altar. Mrs. MacFarlane, the bride's
mother, is still sitting with both ears glued
to the telephone, receiving flattering re-
marks for her stage-management of the
flower-trimmed wedding party. By the wav.
the Anderson family leaves for England
almost immediately. And it may not be
back for years.
The Magyar brand of bodice is ahead of
competition. It is, like every other present
treak ot female adornment, designed for the
slim, and gives a champagne slope to the
shoulders of the shadowy feminine forms
that now haunt the drawing-rooms of the
Blest. The slender grey and pink brides-
maidens at the Willis-Osborne orange-blos-
soming wore Magyar in their sleeves and
shoulder lines. For the Fat it is anathema.
Magyar can be cursed in any language that
comes handy when it bulges' under the arm
and gives another billow to the too rotund.
Paris papers affirm that fashions for the
female form are where they were—quite
thin, admitting the demise of the hobble, and
allowing an extra half-yard in the width of
the skirt. Plump persons will continue to
blush for their waist-line.
Dr. Charles Harriss, of the Sheffield
\ oices, is blest or cursed with the impul-
sive temperament which sets out to do
things m haste, and then sits down and con-
templates results. It is said that he en-
gaged Lady Norah Noel for the World tour
after hearing her amateur pipe in a London
drawing-room. In Christchurch (M.L.) he
looked into the local voice for future use.
and hastened to encourage Mrs. Gower
“™ n a s a , possible vocalist for some
Sheffield Choir tour that still trembles on
the remote horizon. Mrs. Burns has a
local reputation as a song-bird of manv
notes.
~ M.i ss Beatrice Pearson, of the Arts and
Grafts Society, who carves plain wood info
bud and blossom, is going to pack her tools
Europe in October. London will be her
chief port of call, because she is going to be
married there.
Miss Bernice Edwell, who paints minia-
lures, turns mere leather into decorative i>»-
pousse, and sits on Arts and Crafts commit-
tees in her off time, is going to put her bag
and color work on view next Wednesday.
Her new studio—where the show will lie
held—isn’t quite out of mourning, for it
used to be the city lair of late lamented artist
Douglas Fry.
William Brooks, of the printing and pub-
lishing house, is now gadding in Europe,
and is anchoring an artistic daughter in
London. Miss Stella Lewis, of this side
has recently unpacked her easel in a Chelsea
studio. Mr. Montague Marks (Vic.) is also
mixing his oil paints in old Chelsea, where
Carlyle touglit dyspepsia, and Jane Welsh
blew up the butcher.
Photographer Kerry brought back one
TT- m a khng from the Kosciusko Carnival.
His Canadian toboggan, made of hickory—
supple as a water snake —bolted after win-
ning the toboggan championship race, and
wriggled off into a small creek, with a final
squirm into timber. Miss Holt (in all blue)
and Miss Hazel Sly (with a splash of red in
her ski costume) are mentioned as dashing-
riders who added considerably to the good
looks of the recent ice party.
Lady Dudley has an article in the August
Lone Hand on her pet hobby, “Bush Nurs-
ing”—which she remarks is “philanthropic”
rather than “charitable.” She starts on a
good wicket with —
Admiring the straightforward simplicity of the
Australian character, it seems to me that' I cannot
do better than put upon paper, in the simplest and
most direct way, a short record of my impressions
of bush nursing.
Having dropped her official mantle as Gov.-
Generalress, she writes freely in reply to the
criticism which got its teeth into the earlier
bush nursing scheme, and frankly admits
the failure of the first draft of the organisa-
tion. Her generous attitude towards ad-
verse criticism, and her effort to establish
the thing on a better footing before she
sailed away, reflect the charm of her late
Ex.’s sweet and candid nature.
The first N. S ; Wales bush nurse to carry
healing to the fringe of settlement under the
new scheme, hurried from Sydney for Jinda-
byne last week. She took with her the
euriously appropriate name of Miss Twelve-
trees.
Mrs. Hood, of Melbourne, whose daughter
Florence played the fiddle at a recent or-
chestral concert in the Town Hall, is a
southern bird of passage now passing
through this city.
Miss Marion Porritt, who has been sing-
ing across Bananaland, on a concert tour,
writes to say she has changed her name to
Marr, and Brisbane will be her home nest.
Grace Watson drops in a line from her
Adelaide political camp. It’s all about
the “Colonial Intelligence League” in Lon-
don. Mrs. Eleanor Grant, the hon. sec.,
ought to go and worry George Reid, when he
is well enough to bear it, about the brand
of female immigrant this continent wants
to sop up from Britain. The Hon. Caroline
Grosvenor sheds her patronage on the
League as chairman. Princess Christian
its biggest social gun, goes off in royal
salutes as president. Grace reports a wel-
come committee, now gathering itself to-
gether in Adelaide, to extend the glad hand
to new arrivals.
Sanitary ladies, now blended with the
Health Society, are inquiring into tooth
ache and other crimes as T to?c-
-letter. Dr. Hangar Burne put a finger on
the spot, and lectures the ladies ol “the
necessity for the higher education of the pub-
1C the matter of care of the teeth” The
pubhc winch only recognises its back teeth
when the dentist has put a fist intn u
mouth and hauled them out, ought to flock to
ms instruction. If the public ever doe*
take care of its teeth, two-thirds of the local
dentists will have to abandon their trade for
business S ° r S ° me ° ther remun erative
To the making of music there appears to
be no terminus. Paling’s forward some
songs,by Claire Newton. “Morning and
>Mght are set to a graceful melody tha<
twines round the old poetic fiction which
booms early rising. “To meet the morning
light isn t all it s cracked up to be as the
mere milkman knows. “Song of Joy”bvthe
same composer, plays on the pre-historic
subject ot Soring time,” to waltz time
Chappell and Co. also forward a small musi-
cal library, including their annual rlnn™.
album, which is full of fresh inducements to
plunge into the polka and two-step.
Sydney's dogs, lost or strayed, are goin-
to be housed in residential kennels which
an optimistic committee intends to lal»>l
King Edward Memorial Home.” Moore
I ark is to be the place, and a lethal chamber
will be .its next-of-kin. Mrs. R. Mackinnm.
is helping to knock the Growleries into
shape; Hon. Sec. Olga Rothery shoves the
correspondence through the penny post; and
Miss Paulina Robinson attacked the financial
problem last week, and organised a matinee
in the Standard Theatre.
“Oliver’s Kind Women” is Philip Gibbs's
just-to-hand novel, from D.vmock’s. Oliver
m a careless young spark, with a charming
appearance and a slack conscience about his
tailors bills. He has a large circle of
women friends, who lend him money and
give him good advice. Rut even a Greek
profile can t propitiate a landlady beyond a
reasonable period. Gibbs puts ‘together a
pleasant story, that hinges on journalistic
life in London. Lady Katherine Goldstein,
a one-time writer of social pars, is a vivid
character-sketch. She frankly quarrelled with
her gilded nest, and ached for the Bohemian
society of her fellows. “In our muddy
boots, said one of them, “we are able to
stroll upon her velvet pile carpets. In our
threadbare trousers we sit upon real Chip-
pendale. . The noble condescension of her
flunkeys is like a benediction.”
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORLAN.
From London :
Carrie Haase has hit upon a promising idea by
giving a recital of Australian ballads; but an Aus-
tralian male elocutionist, with bush knowledge and
sympathies, would work it to better advantage. Miss
Haase drew her selection mainly from The Bulle-
tin. with Gordon and Kendall as representatives of
the older school. The best notice appeared in the
Times, whose critic hailed the recognition of the
younger Australian singers as “refreshing,” and re-
joiced that the age which regarded Adam Lindsay
Gordon, with his “mawkish sentimentality,” as the
representative Australian poet had passed away. The
Times’ critic considers that Australian sentiment is
best reflected in the verses of Victor Daley—“a poet
of whom the English people know little and ought
to know much,”


38tr®S8i
m
m
",
■
SBIR
: V 33
&
r
/
S&2
AC»
-; 81
f.
■i c x
Ss
rr>
■; a;
j:A?Pi
z'
if
SV>
* <•■;
v’ti
m
M
:■':
:
saLZS**
igriSi?
I'
/<
UA,
ss
SSiflSl
'-.,:yV.
V^>;
•* -.A
Hgi
,
a
pi-niSpsiwi^P
«r.
,Ai
r-S^
m
MS
■
ggg£|-
•iims'i
• %
<
I^m
*
m
M*. ,
»i..yr>
m Vi
zm.
'm&H.;
V £ V<i;T
111
«rl»§ l«
Ari' 1 \ y .A.~ A-; : /£[S : q a
#5?
2®>,
oWSc''4
!Si
S.S
t oT^ # . *'
///
mmwwtiß
Me kMiSMsmmi’sem
w. fflk
h •,- ;
a&
/
Hts**saifS:s -,;r<
i|pfe Sfef fen h . * ;
Vi's'S’&A ■¥»s& {• %iik /*s«s■?»!';,
fegf#.- •'• ! - 4.;':; ■'■’£,'
HI
is
H
SP
ng
to <:
fc'#
&hh«
llliii
HN
sss^ 5
is
»?«
! , ;/■ :■
'f ■*s'•:•
wisiijisi
li
jm-aAi
COBR-A, Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, lohe Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With his magic
Makes for you
And the baby,
Bright and clever,
Rivers where you
Row for ever,
Floating on a
Woolly mat
With the foxie
And the cat.
All aboard !
Away we float
Down the rivei.
In our boat!


rr
m7±
V 5.
-T
Dunlop
Rubber
Heels
for
Comfort
and Wear.
Walk on Soft Rubber
It's far more comfortable, besides
being cheaper, than on hard
leather heels that rack and jar
the nerves. To get the BEST
i RESULTS specify “DUNLOP”]
i brand. TRY THEM! /
ALL BOOT SHOPS. /
/
RUBBER HEELS
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
AH State*
and N.Z.
%
§ - I'm
Mi
A
<k
Once
Use a
Dunlop
Tennis
Ball
and
You
Will
Use
No
Other.
DUNLOP
TENNIS
BALLS
being freshly made and free
from perish, ensure you satis*
faction that is not obtainable
from the imported article.
Just try a “Dunlop” Ball
and note the difference.
Obtainable all leading Sport* Depot*
DUNLOP RUBBER CO, all Slate, an i NX
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Pattng**
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 24, 1911.
My Deab Yabkie, —
. The tall Linlithgow is visiting at Wid-
rigal, one of the Manifold stations near
Camperdown. It was one of the country
places that often saw his father. The son,
however, is staying with Edward Manifold ;
his father usually put up at the old home-
stead with Chester of the clan. The original
station was cut up into runs for the several
sons. On the death of Manifold, sen.,
Chester took up his abode at the home-
stead ; lut recently he built himself a man-
sion on the hill. The new house has several
fine panels by Australian artists in the hall,
rnese depict incidents in the station his-
tory of the pioneer Manifold, who came
from Tasmania. The site of the present
station was then a swamp fringe, but was
afterwards drained and transformed into
marvellous dairying country. Manifold, in
his search for solid land, waded for miles
through this slushy area. His sons saw no
good in the damp expedition ; but the father
waded on. At last he climbed a hill, from
the top of which he saw a small area of dry
earth. That with its well-drained surround-
ings is now the station. The cold-footed
swamp-searching is the subject of the first
panel. The second pictures the attempts to
hold the place against the neighboring
blacks, who were actively hostile. The
other panels continue the yarn up to the
wealth and plenty of smiling acres, with
Cow as the goddess thereof.
The wonder is that Camperdown has
escaped being called Manifoldville. The
whole place is Manifold. There is a Mani-
fold Park, and Manifold Gardens blossom
bravely. Manifold-street runs at a great
pace through the town, and, in the middle
of it, a great clock with Manifold printed
on it has been ineffectually trying to tell
the awed inhabitants that the time is not
yet ripe for a land tax.
The death of Clerk of Parliaments Jen-
kins revives many recollections. Nothing
was more typical of the man than his much-
quoted “Do the thing properly!” when the
Exhibition Trustees asked what expense
tney should go to for the Duke of York’s re-
ception. When he had secured his first
little tin tag, “Jenks” was the proudest man
in Melbourne. About that time, a Parlia-
mentary party visited the wilds of Apollo
Bay on some mission. The accommodation
was rough and limited, and the only bed
was duly claimed by Jenkins. John Woods,
the Minister for Railways, who was a
martyr to rheumatism, was offered a shake-
down. Woods electrified the air for a few
minutes, and finally announced that if there
was any member of the party in worse
health than himself he might have the bed ;
but he would be scorched before he would
be C.M.Geed out of it.
The late Allan McLean’s reputation in
the House as a teller of good stories was
helped by his drawl. One of his brightest
was about the time he drove some cattle
across a creek with the assistance of a
farmer and the unassistance of a boy. After
the boy had done his worst, the farmer
offered up a prayer which, according to
McLean, ran this way: “Lor-rd, You know
1 don’t tr-r-rouble You often! Please droou
that boy.” A description of the farmer
was always appended: “This gen-tle-man
was a fr-r-riend of mine at Maa-a-fra. He
was not wliat you would call a ree-lee-gious
man; that is to say, he was not de-monstra-
tive in his ree-lee-gion. But he was a goo-d
man; he always voted for me, whether I
was r-right or wr-rong.” Allan’s stock
anecdote, assisted by the accent, was always
accepted as very humorous in pawky circles.
The management of the Sheffield Choir,
whilst in Melbourne, showed no particular
regard for the public that pays its money
and looks for punctuality in business. There
was, as a rule, a leisurely slowness in start-
ing the long concert; and on the Wednesday
night, when “Elijah” was the job in hand,
the multitude suffered a wearisome wait for
the arrival of Lord Dudley, as though his
Ex. were the Lord of Heaven, and “Elijah”
couldn’t begin without him. On the pre-
vious night a miscellaneous programme was
interrupted by the ceremony of presenting
souvenirs to the learned musical doctors,
Coward and Harriss. This was described
in next morning’s paper as “a pleasant inci-
dent in the evening” ; but it didn’t seem
pleasant to the honest citizens in ’way-back
seats who wanted entertainment. They
grew very restive under the infliction of in-
audible speeches concerning matters in
which they were uninterested.
On Saturday night the Sheffield Choir
raised its joint and several voice to express
miscellaneous views on God and Empire—
or, perhaps, Empire and God. There was a
big congregation, which sat through the “pa-
triotic” programme with a carefully-schooled
demeanor of interest and importance. The
best item of the evening was “God of Our
Fathers,” chorally thundered as if it were a
kind of personal reminiscence. But the
audience reserved its attention for' the ap-
pearance of Lady Norah Noel. There was
a hush as she came forward, wrapped
in pink silk and a pained expression; then
she proceeded to turn over a small, gilt-
edged volume, from which she sang a well-
known Hibernian air, and contrived to make
the melody another injustice to Ireland.
Afterwards she warbled a familiar foreign
piece, and showed that she is privately con-
vinced she has a voice, but is determined
never to divulge her awful secret.
The Sheffielders probably enjoyed their
party at Mrs. Albert Miller’s more than any
other function they were roped into. For
one thing the run out along Toorak-road is
almost like a country trip. Melbourne,
rather flat in other parts, indulges there in a
few undulations; and when the air is clear
there is a distant background of mountains.
For another thing, the house was filled with
early “Cootamundra” wattle, whose gorgeous
golden blossoms drew a chorus of admiration
from the hostess’s North Country compa-
triots. In the music room, Rita Hope at the
piano, and Amadio, with his flute, made
melody, and Gertrude Winkelmann and
Gregor Wood sang. The Choir, not to be
out of it, added two numbers to the pro-
gramme.
Rupert Bunny was to open his picture
show at the Athenaeum on Monday after-
noon, when Governor Fuller was booked to
make remarks suitable to the occasion.
Bunny, since his arrival, has been strug-
gling to get to work; but he finds himself
handicapped by the severely business-like
atmosphere of his new studio. It makes
him feel “like a dog on a racecourse,” he
says.
Squatter Sam McCulloch, of the Grecian
profile, came to Melbourne at steeplechase
time, and has been tooting around in a
mustard-tinted motor. He appears to have
preserved his fondness for dancing, and pre-
sumably his poetic fancy for Melba will
bloom again in the spring when the Diva
arrives. Sam McCulloch was a picturesque
equerry to the Queen of Song last time she
was in Melbourne. They were much about
together for months and months. But even-
tually long Dick Nevill resumed his former
position of Lord-in-waiting, and gossip
changed its tune again. As regards the
cheery and tempestuous Nellie Melba, gossip
must have formed a large repertoire of
tunes.
Leila Doubleday, according to a judicial
hearer who knows all about her, played well
enough at her debut concert in London, but
was not quite up to her best form. Ner-
vousness prevented her from doing as well
as she will do next time. The big news-
paper criticisms were reckoned fair. All of
them spoke of her artistic talent and musi-
cal instinct; moreover, the London D.T.
said: “She plays more perfectly in tune
than almost any violinist we have ever
heard. ’ And to say that is to credit the
girleen with positive genius ; for to be always
in tune with vocal or fiddle notes is to be
wonderful.
Tall Talbot, who acted as manager to the
intractable Calvd in some of her Australian
touring, went off to Capetown last week—
tor the Taits—to meet Clara Butt. He will
prepare the way for the rich-toned giantess,
and leave paragraphic bouquets for her at
editorial sanctums what time she is making
a triumphal march through the land of
gold, doppers and diamonds. Subsequently
Mrs. Butt is to invade Canada, and the
iaits would have their Talbot follow her
there and eventually bring her back to Aus-
tralia. But he would prefer to bring himself
back in the meantime, reckoning that this is
a very good country not to be out of for more
than a year at a stretch.
On Friday night, for their farewell, the
i Jmimer-Denniston Co. revived “The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray,” with Mrs. Brough in her
old part of Paula. Nearly every old Brough
lover was packed away somewhere in the
crowded house. At curtain-time, Mrs.
.Brough was overwhelmed with ornamental
vegetables, and Plimmer spoke a fe'v part-
ing words. “We will be back again in a
year with a fresh lot of good plays,” he
said ; and the house said “Hooray!”
The suburban mayoral dance is no cheese-
paring function nowanights. His Washup lays
every red cent he can spare, for he knows
that the chained man next door is watching
him closely, and will endeavor to go one
better when his turn comes. The district nobil-
ity and gentry eagerly accept his Worship’s
invitation, and watch closely to see that none
ot the acceptors dodge the “return” (at half
a guinea per head) towards the end of the
season. Those who neglect the second affair
are promptly labelled Mud or Dust—and so
the round game of Suburban Sassiety has
gone on. This year, however, Mayor and
Mayoress Hughes, of St. Kilda, whose dance
was an 18-carat one, firmly refused the cus-.
tomary return.” Prahran followed suit, and
other places where mayors flourish are ex-
pected to do likewise.
Caulfield, the place where horses run
dead and alive, lately had a mayoral fling
ror the first time on record. Mayor and
Mayoress “Sinjin” Hall were the respon-
sible parties, and they were aided and
abetted by 500 of the Elect. Brighton
hurried across country and joined in. The
hostess led the revels in a gold and white
tunic over an oriental satin gown, and came
in an easy first.
A very natural, but hitherto unconsidered,
danger attends the Dudley bush nursing
scheme. Miss Mary Thompson was the first
nurse appointed. She was stationed at
Beech Forest. Her first patient was Syd-
ney C. E. Beeston, a railway construction
officer, who was thrown from a trolley. He
was also the keenest supporter of the bush
nursing scheme in the district. The wed-
ding has been fixed for September 5.
The Beech Forest nurses are accumulating
way-back experiences. One clever girl,
wffiose path of duty had hitherto been as-
plialted and carpeted, had to ride 10 miles on
a. rough horse to an operation. Says the
ministering one: “I couldn’t sit when I got
there, and the. horse couldn’t stand.” The
patient was discovered lying in a lean-to
which she had been helping to fix up when
she got ill. The unfortunate husband peered
m through the tiny unglazed window until
the doctor shooed him off.
Ballarat is almost ready financially for a
District Nurse. Money is coming in almost
without begging. Even the Tram Co. is
offering the nurse free rides, and when the
heart of a Tram Co. softens anything mav
happen. And the local cabby promises to
be as good as his rival. “Only put up your
hand, Miss,” is the cheerful invitation ex-
tended to the expected angel whose lack of
wings makes quick transport a necessity.
Father Tom Ewing, one of the best yarn-
spmners the House of Reps, ever knew, has
given a parental blessing to son Tom, who
is engaged to Leila McDougall, of Richmond
River.
B. Jim Bennie, son of Dr. Bennie, of
Collins-street, has won a promise from
Muriel Handffiy. The lady is the daughter of
Mrs. Hamilton, of Culverthorpe, Queens-
land, and of the late Captain Handley, of
Lincolnshire.
Melbourne gossipers are interested in the
news that Ida Minnett was lately married,
in ’Murka, to Mr. Levien, son of the
Sydney political identity. Ida, of yore,
affected a profoundly stage-struck mood,
and was always understood to be intending
herself for one or other “star” actor who
didn’t already bear the brand of matrimony.
Miss Nell Robinson, the interesting
daughter of Brighton importants, has an
appointment with T. A. Moyle, of the Mel-
bourne branch of the Guardian Assurance
Co., at St. Paul’s, at the ultra-fashionable
hour of 7 p.m., on August 15.
Ethel Leon, daughter of Crown Prosecu-
tor Leon, has just blossomed into a fully-
qualified chemist. This city is gradually
accumulating a strong contingent of profes-
sional and scientific women, and the ladies
stress the fact that they have to pass the
same examinations and do the same work
as the superior male, who, whether he wants
to or not, is forced to consider the vexed
question of whether the woman sex doesn’t
fully deserve all the rights it hasn’t got.
Mrs. Marie E. J. Pitt, who has recently
issued a book of verses, with a loud demo-
cratic ring in them, was given a dinner in
Melbourne last week. Several literary per-
sons sampled the feast, and, between attacks
on the edibles present, took it in turns to
applaud the energetic lady. Bernard O’Dowd
led the chorus of praise, and was supported
by C. R. Long, Miss Kenny and H. H.
Champion.
Someone should propose the waters of
Port Phillip Bay as an honorary but
hard-working member of the Child Study
Association. Some time ago, councillors
conspired to “improve” the foreshore
at St. Ivilda, by doing away with a
beach which had been the playground of
thousands of youngsters. The waters of the
bay waited for a suitable wind; when they
got it, they started to improve the place back
again. They scooped up sand, and packed
it into an excellent playing beach; they
made another sand-castle paradise along by
Middle Brighton where before there had
been nothing but rocks and stones; then,
just to “nark” the municipal meddlers, they
leapt at the parade which connects St. Ivilda
and Port Melbourne, chewed up some of the
beach the municipals wanted, put water over
the spot, and ate up a mile or more of
asphalt footpath.
Frank Bottrill, an Australian engineer,
lias made heavy traction engines walk over
loose sand. Whilst directing big contracts
for the Government near the dotted line
which divides us from South Australia, he
was faced with the problem of getting two
heavy engines across a patch that looked like
pepper. Thousands of strong men have used
stronger language and walked round that
problem without being able to solve it. Bot-
trill went away to a quiet spot and thought
deeply. Then he came back, and in some
ingenious way fitted flat boards to the great
wheels, so that, as they revolved, a firm flat
roadway of wood was always beneath them.
I don’t know whether it has anything to do
with the case, out the inventor is a strict
vegetarian. He lives on small portions of
crushed nuts, milk and cold water: never
takes stimulants of any kind; avoids tea
and coffee; and does without a campfire in
all but the very coldest weather. Withal he
is a mighty man of muscle and a Latter
Day Saint, into which sect he lately married.
A reception to meet Vida Goldstein was
held at one of the London clubs for women,
on June 9. t Andrew Fisher attended, and
made some remarks which did not interest
W. T. Stead or the British Empire League:
so they were not cabled. The dark-eyed
political lady is having a busy time in Lon-
don, and Melbourne people, playing truant
thereabouts, report that she has become a
social lioness.
Gerald Blackbourn, a young Melbourne
lawyer of promise, died suddenly the other
day at Euroa, where he had settled with his
young wife and child. He was a son of
civil engineer Blackbourn, who died re-
cently.
Harry Busteed, who used to motor-cycle
round the forgotten saucer track at hair-
rammg speed and wring shrieks of admira-
tion from terrified girls, has won his pilot’s
certificate at the Bristol aviation school.
He went to England last March in pursuit
of the lark at Heaven’s high gate. The bird
is still at large, but the certificate is safely
m hand.
The most recent English papers spread
themselves, carefully over the bowling green,
which is already a woman’s sphere and
threatens to become fashionable, for Queen
Mary isr a player. The greens at White
Lodge, Richmond, are her favorites. Any
w-oman who can curtsey should be able to
pa / sedate game. The graceful bend
and the swiiip* of the arm make even round
old gentlemen look almost stately. The im-
portant thing for a woman is to have a
neat foot and ankle. This virtue English
snapshotters deny Queen Mary, and some
disloyal female suggests that this fact may
be the cause of the short-skirt edict. The
treasonabJe statement goes uncorroborated.
_ ±he tehelfleld Choristers are so numerous
that, until they sailed into Melbourne, they
had never found one hotel big enough to hold
them all. However, the Grand swallowed
them, bag and baggage; and then the hall
porter went out on the step to look for
more. There promises to be a large crop of
orange blossoms as a result of the melo-
dious pilgrimage; several engagements have
been announced, and the baritones, sopranos
and tenors say there are likely to be others.
J-he basses and contraltos confirm the iov-
ful rumor.
h rom my Adelaide correspondent:—
J h | an n ua l football match between Prince Alfred
and bt. Peter s Colleges occurred on Saturday, and
the weather was grim. The chief side-show air these
affairs is provided by the barraekers in the boys’
stand, who, in the intervals of waving rival flags of
red or blue, and yelling lustily, fill in spare moments
with whole-hearted free-fights, in which the interfer-
ing policeman usually fares badly. Government
House was there, looking as though it came of
choice —not of necessity.
Borwick is here, and music-lovers (and those who
would fain be thought so) are in a seventh heaven.
He is reserved, both as regards himself and his play-
ing. Gushers are gently snubbed, and encores at the
C ?!vi r^s .5 re ® rm C' refused. As the programme is
written it stands, and no amount of stamping can
alter that rule. The Lyric Club donned its glad
rags to welcome him and h:s sister, and incidentally
supplied a musical programme which spoke well for
Adelaide amateurs. Miss Nora Kyffin Thomas is a
host m herself, and plays with rare charm and
delicacy.
Eocnen, the Arthur Waterhouses’ home on East
terrace, was festive on Wednesday evening, with the
music and cheerful people which go to make up a
good dance.
Medical men who, some years back, settled their
homes and their consulting rooms in the city are
repenting of the former part of the deed, so that many
one-time social centres are now mere “professional
apartments. The last to evict themselves are the
bwifts, who are forsaking Victoria Square for Br»-
ninr, in North Adelaide—a house for many years the
home of old Henry Salom.
The Literary Theatre continues on its successful
it? 7- ,, . late . st ve ntnre, Ashley Dukes’s “Civil
v\ ar, is not light fare, but the audience took it
smilingly, and interspersed attentive smiles with
sincere applause.
A comprehensive bill has been introduced into the
Assembly demanding that shop-assistants shall be
allowed to sit down in the intervals of measuring
lace and chiffon. Also, the Adelaide branch of the
Australian Natives’ Association called a special meet-
ing to consider the question of extending its privi-
leges to lady members. The motion was carried with
no dissentient voice, and several female-membership
applications were immediately lodged.
But woman is born, apparently, to be shackled
and, as her citizenship advances, her domestic w’
+w S grOW n ea Tl e v’ The elusive M ary Ann is wow
that any will-o -the-wisp, and housekeepers clutch at
any sttaw that may help them. The latest project is one
for importing orphans from India. The girls in
question are trained with a view to subsequent do-
mestic work and, as it is specially stipulated that
they must be of white parentage, some good mav
come of the scheme.
Among our recent brides we number an ancient
princess, the last of her race. She is known famil-
larly to southern tourists as “Jennie,” and is a
desolate-looking old lubra, well smitten in years and
L e ° en «y widowed. Her new husband is considerably
less than half her age, and is reported to have sown
his wild oats at the Point Macieay Mission Station
Adelaide is grieved at the illness of Miss Winifred
bcott, who for years has been connected with the
Reg ist er and its associated papers. Some of her
form Pie sketches have been published in booK
Douglas Thorn, of Mitcham, is to get the Roval
Humane Society s silver medal. Towards the end' of
May he literally dragged a girl from death under
the nose of a train at the Mitcham station ; his action
is regarded by railway men as being one of the most
recklessly daring rescues on record.
Sincerely yours,
JOHNNA.


- - * ***
• - '
■ixhmio'i'
1
'
m
mm
1
b
"•••>>
S']
3,4
V
/
\ :
c
PI
♦*J« £
il S 43
•'
#¥ •■ *: P
Q
W
t i
w
- *.
k
■
:
.
.
N!3
mm
mm
:
mm
mmm
SPwaill
1811111
,/' V J
.
■ ' * •■'■
lilg
BHB |
NKBEh
J»y
R 21 X s * i
fPKgp f*
>• s ,
i m
>
m
[\ il
ii
4 ;
M•- J* ' «.* ’|H
P^l
c Jhe Connoisseur
JOSEPH SIMPSON R.B.A.
I m
r * ' yi
Copyright and property of John Dewar & Sons, Ltd., Distillers to His Majesty the King, H.I.M. the German Emperor,
H.M. the King of Spain, and H.M. the King of Sweden.


WATSON'S N° 10
WHISKY
't&urtiM*'- :
THIS is the one liquor that appeals to the
connoisseur—the man who can appre-
ciate the smooth charm and mellow
flavor of a good whisky.
Call for Watson’s No. lO next
time —you’ll realise the futility of all other
whiskies compared to it.
UNCONSCIOUS FROM GRIPING PAINS.
“For ten years I was a constant sufferer from
attacks of colic, and at times unconscious from the
griping pains,” says Mr. Alex. J. Cresswell, of Bir-
regurra, Vic. “The only thing that gave me relief
was Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy. It never failed. I have recommended it
to many friends and customers, who have always
met with the same results as myself. My advice is
to always keep a bottle in the house. It is the most
effective relief and cure for severe griping pains in
the stomach and for Diarrhoea ”*
A Good Square Meal
What the dyspeptic subject
mostly longs for*
Treatment for Indigestion that pots
the stomach into condition to
digest ordinary food.
The Dyspeptic who wants a good square
meal, and knows that he will suffer if he
eats one, finds poor consoluation in picking
and choosing a diet. The only real cure tor
Indigestion is treatment that will enable
the stomach to digest, good solid lood a
steak and vegetables without trouble.
The tonic treatment for Indigestion is
based on the contention that Indigestion
occurs when the organs of the stomach
have become too weak to digest ordinary
food, and that only the restoration of the
stomach to a nroper state of tone will cure
the trouble. From their blood making and
general tonic qualities, the use of Dr. Wil-
liams' Pink Pills have been found of great
value in Indigestion. Amongst many suc-
cessful cures we might mention that ol
Mrs. Phillip Higginbottom, of 59 Lennox-
street, Richmond, Melbourne. Mrs. Hig-
ginbottom stated: —
“Several months back my health wim
very unsatisfactory. My appetite went oft,
and I would get Indigestion as soon as I
swallowed anything, so that at last I was
afraid to sit down to a meal. I would teel
so sick that I would turn at the sight of
food, even if it were just an egg. I would
get thumping bilious headaches that made
me think my temples were bursting, and
pressed down on my eyes the live long day,
till I could hardly see or hold my head up.
After a bit of food my mouth would fill
with a hot, stinging, bitter fluid, and my
mouth would have such a. nasty taste. My
tongue was always dried and thickly
coated. I lost flesh greatly, and my skin
turned as sallow as possible. I would get
such dizzy turns, and my head would teel
as heavy as lead. A mist would come be-
fore my eyes and black specks that made
every line that I might be reading waver
before me. I could not be bothered to
speak to anyone, I felt so wretchedly low
in spirits. I noticed my heart beating
furiously if I had any exertion, so that 1
hated to go out anywhere. I would have
to loosen my clothes every now and then
with the wind in my system. I would want
to sit down all day, I would feel so drowsy
and heavy, and too tired to do much work.
I can, however, speak most highly of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. My health has been
splendid since I took them. My appetite
is good, and all the heavy weighty feeling
lias gone. I heard of them through a friend
when I was living in Clifton Hill, and the
first few doses relieved me a little and en-
couraged me to keep on. Two boxes com-
pletely cured me.” .
Don’t let any dealer talk you into taking
something which he says is “just as good.
If you are pestered to take a substitute,
send 2/9 for one box, or 15/3 for six
boxes to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
MptorP
A Truss must
be skilfully
fitted to be
thorou g h lv
safe and
comfortable.
Denyer's
Special
E I a s t i c
Truss is one
which you
would not
OENYER
S3
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
knowvou were wearing-—it becomes part of yoursel •
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt MaKerSi
281 GEORGE STREET(opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ,
and at Melbourne, cr. Suanston & EonsdaleStreets^
POLITICAL
POINTS
C. G. Wade urged McGowen to go to the
Coronation; and, in McGowen’s absence, the
same Wade launched two no-confidence or
censure motions within a month. It is un-
derstood that C. G. stands for Confidence
Game.
Charles Gregory Wade’s thick hide lately
allowed him to introduce a deputation .to
Holman, asking for the prompt construction
of a tunnel or bridge to North Sydney—the
job that he talked about for years, and did not
do one thing to put in hand. Still, he felt a
spur on his own dunghill over the matter.
The Willoughby Council —formed of his sup-
porters —refused to have anything t<p do with
the deputation, and practically intimated
that it was like Wade’s cheek to show in the
matter at all, considering how his Govern-
ment had left it hanging in the air until just
before the elections, when the usual com-
mission was given a billet. Wade remarked
that he “was not aware of the particular
reason for the absence of the Willoughby
Council” on the deputation. But it was
quite an unnecessary explanation—Wade is
unaware of so many things.
Victoria finds, after studying the follow-
ing figures—
Sunshine claims paid .. ..£125,623
Richmond claims paid .. . * 126,/01
Total £252,324
that special arrangements will have to be
made to renew the Railway Accident I und.
The State couldn’t have afforded Heaven-
sent railway management for another five
years.
The N. S. Wales Cold Tea Organisation
has decided to get a Bill introduced by a
private member “to bring liquor bars under
the provisions of the law for the early
closing of shops.” Bung, faced with the
prospect of closing at 6 p.m., will, it is under-
stood, reply with an amendment that
churches and church bazaars shall also be
included.
The most brazenly impudent part of Wade’s
censure motion in the N.S.W. Assembly
deplored “the proposal under the Workers’
Dwellings Bill to deprive workers of the
right to acquire titles to land in connection
with their homes.” The Labor Government
no more deprives “workers of the right to
acquire titles to land in connection with
their homes” than the Wade Government
did. Wade didn’t even assist them to acquire
homes —he simply left them to be wolfed bv
the rentlord.
Minister Trefle (N.S.W.) opened out
again a few days ago, and said he had cer-
tain information as to the hold the bie Beef
Trust was getting on the Australian trade.
Of course he is going to do all sorts of
things to block the octopus. Unfortunately,
the big thing that might have been done was
neglected; in fact, when the Government to
which Treflfi belongs turned traitor to Aus-
tralia and the Australian Labor party, it
gave invaluable help to the Trust to get a
comfortable footing in this country. The
only hope that Australia has of fighting any
such Trust is with the Federal machinery,
and Ma’s Labor Government, in giv-
ing way to its petty State Spites feeling,
effectually clogged that machinery for the
time being. Against that big, potent, shame-
ful fact, all the talk about what the State
Government is going to do is mere piffle.
IN THE VERNACULAR.
"And what's become of the old banjo you
used to have?"
“ Oh, it's learning Hebrew!"
Attorney-General Denny (S.A.), in mov-
ing the second reading of the Council Veto
Bill, showed that of 183,000 Assembly elec-
tors, only 64,000 have votes for the Council.
AVorse still, while 30,388 of the privileged
third in the city return only six members,
the 34,002 scattered over the country dis-
filets elect 12.
Speaking of N.S.AV. Lands Minister Niel-
sen, t lle S. M. Herald (21/7/11) remarks:
We have a Minister for Lands, probably as able
ag we i iave had, and certainly as earnest as any
we have had in promoting the interests of the
country.
And in another article re the foreshores re-
sumption (same issue): —
The harbor foreshores resumption scheme is one
concerning which the Minister for Lands specifically,
through
, g compre h e nsive enough for considerable satisfaction
. . That so much is possible by expenditure of
‘£150,000 makes the negligence of the past an even
greater marvel than it need have been. Poor ideals
of government must indeed have been abroad in this
land. • • •
After which the Herald, if chance comes,
will gleefully proceed to toss this able and
earnest Minister on the political sciaplieap,
and put in power AA ade. Ferry, and other
calamities with poor ideals of government,
And, between times, it will prattle of the
time-proved excellences of,l? arty
of government, under which this excellent
Minister for Lands must be passed out, be-
cause, some day perhaps, something will go
wrong in the Department of Fisheries.
On a recent Friday in Sydney live shir-
masteis, captains of merchant steamships
with alien crews, were fined £7OO for
allowing prohibited immigrants to enter the
Commonwealth. The net result. is that the
Commonwealth received six Chinamen and
one Lascar, and the £7OO which went with
them is poor consolation. The downpour
raises the question whether the penalty for
allowing discolored aliens to abscond from
vessels is severe enough. The £lOO fine im-
posed on the master comes out oj. the ship s
profits —less the amount due to the absconder
in wages, or paid by him as a bonus and
the frequency of bolting Chow suggests that
the shipping cos. are not being unduly irri-
tated in their most vulnerable spot.
The Victorian Council of Progress Asso-
ciations may not go forward with the speed
of a “joy”-riding chauffeur, but still it moves
at times. The other day it resolved that it
is eminently desirable that in tuture sub-
divisions of residential land in the suburban
area the municipal councils should insist on
a minimum area of one-sixth of an acre.
The council might have gone a good deal
further without doing any harm. 11ns
country 7 can hardly be described as crowded
yet, and ir the population were to spread
itself out more it would look larger, even ir
it wasn’t. And it would certainly last
longer.
Sydney D.T. put Wade on the spit over
his censure motion, and blamed him for not
“allowing the Labor party 7 to fry in its own
fat a little longer.” But the worst of these
Labor schemes is that, the longer they try,
the better the public likes the dish. Every
good thing the “Liberals” have done in the
past year or two they cursed 20 years ago.
Wade throws bricks at the Labontes for
stopping the resumption of estates; yet only
10 years ago Wade’s crowd was denouncing
the resumption of estates as a monstrous
interference with private property. There
are invariably three stages in the business.
First, the “Liberals” say that the reform
will mean ruin, and they will fight it to the
last ditch. Then, when the reform has been
accomplished, they say: “Wait awhile, and
the disaster will turn up all right.” And
finally: “The scheme has been a great suc-
cess, and the country 7 ought to be grateful
to the ‘Liberal’ party which carried it
through in the face of bitter opposition.’
The latest freak effort of
Geelong (Vic.) is to borrow
£50,000 or £60,000 for a new
municipal hall, which the
aldermen and councillors de-
clare would be a “credit” to
the place. They recently
asked Watt, the Acting-
Premier, for help; but even
Willy wasn’t sympathetic.
What he should have done
was to submit the lot to the
indignity of making them
J’s.P. Any indignity is jus-
tified in the case of men who
are willing to go to Cohen
for £60,000 to build a hall for
their own aggrandisement,
after they have refused, on
account of their poverty, to
instal a municipal tramway
service. As it is, the Council
recently handed its roads
over to the usual syndicate
for 30 years, though there
isn’t one single bargain of
the sort made in Australia
that hasn’t produced
trouble.
From S.A. Treasurer Crawford Vaughan:
The Bulletin’s Wild Cat criticises the S.A. Gov-
ernment for treating the amount received from sale
of Crown lands as ordinary revenue, and concludes
that the sooner S.A. either knocks off selling land
altogether or uses the proceeds from the sale of one
lot of assets to buy another lot of assets,
the better for the Labor party’s reputation
as well as for the State’s record for honesty. Last
session the Government submitted an amendment of
the Taxation Act, providing that the amount re-
ceived from sale of Crown lands should be devoted to
the reduction of the public debt, instead of being
treated as revenue. That provision was thrown out
by the Leg. Council. In an amending Crown Lands
Bill we are seeking to provide for the substitution of
perpetual leasing for agreement or covenant to pur-
chase, and we are curious to know what its fate will
be in the Abattoirs Dept, of the Legislature.
THE HOSPITALITY OF FAT.
The S. M. Herald enthuses over the proposed visit
of American business-men and capitalists to Aus-
tralia, and the mutual benefits to be derived from,
etc., etc.
OUR OWN FATMAN: "That's right, Gratima;
let ’im know there's plenty 'ere for all.
Besides, I [?]leeve 'e's perfected some beautiful
schemes f or stripping 'em dry!"
THE CHILDREN'S FRIEND.
Employment was not only good but essential for
every child, however young, to keep him out of mis-
chief and formulate “habits of industry.— Wade, at
Farmers’ Conference.
He-WHO-STANDS-WITH-THE- BOX: “And never
forget, dearies, what a good, kind father
you've got!"
Picture of a part of the Coronation panto-
mime :
. . . Aloft in the South Triforium, in a badly-
lighted space, filthy with the dust of centuries, sat the
journalists and others who were to give the story of
the Coronation to the world.
The press is supposed to represent the intelli-
gence of the people; and, appropriately,
while this pagan flummery was in progress,
the intelligence was thrown into a dust-box.
BREATHING-TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hope that something else will fade into oblivion
—that is the particularly venomous spirit of a
section of Australian journalism which has made
characteristic efforts to stir up international hostility
between ourselves and the Japanese.— Acting-Premier
Holman, on the renewal of the Anglo-Jap Treaty.
Peace, perfect peace Come, .lay aside your gun.
The danger zone is past; the gauntlet run.
The bark of Scylla ceases on her shore,
And grim Charybdis threatens us no more.
Respite, Nepenthe, leaning-posts and beer!
Football and horses! Breathing time is here!
O witless fools, who, with your cry, “To Arms!”
Your warnings venomous, and false alarms,
Sought to estrange us from our yellow friends,
Thus all your potter and your bunkum ends!
We are secure once more; we breathe again.
No further need is there for ships or men.
“The Treaty is renewed!” Hip, Hip, Hooray! . . .
Now let us dream the happy hours away.
One pen-stroke! and our liberty appears
Secure again, for ten long, blissful years.
A diplomat or two, a little ink,
Some paper, and, Hi Presto ! in a wink,
The Yellow Peril vanishes from sight,
Like vague dream shadows of a restless night.
Let gentleness and peace o’erspread the land ;
And bid our infant warriors disband.
The War-god broods o’er Europe even yet?
What matter? We’ve a decade to forget
That e’er we dreamed we heard the grim dogs bark.
What child at noon is fearful of the dark?
The forges of the nations still are lit?
Their anvils ring? What do we reck of it?
With ten long years of peace and joy and light,
We laugh at our vague terrors of the night.
Are truces ever broken? Treaties scorned?
Statesmen corrupted ? Diplomats suborned ?
Perish the thought! What if, in some far day,
Some foresworn nation flung its bond away ?
Shall we, for such as that, forego our joy,
And start at shadows, like a frightened boy?
Shall croaking pessimists, with mild alarms,
Force us, all needlessly, to fly to arms?
Down with the dolts who prate of ships and guns!
Stern Mars shall not enslave Australia’s sons.
Come, gag the fools who urge us to defend
Our ports against our harmless yellow friend !
Their words are insults; their aggressiveness
May give him pain, and cause us much distress.
Ah, gaze on him! as he steps forth to sign—
Say, is his smile not peaceful and benign?
Ten years to hoard the gold in shop and mart;
Ten peaceful years to play the trader’s part;
To tend the sheep ; to watch the green corn sprout;
To cheer the race; to gaily clap and shout
At sports of children, played by heedless men.
Ten years of sweet Arcadia—and then? ... ,
Heed not the voice that thunders the alarm:
“Ten years to play the man! Ten years to arm !”
(O God of Battles, who, thus long, hath spared
A heedless nation, grant we be prepared!
Ten pregnant years! Ten scanty years of grace,
To make or mar the fortune of a race.
Grim years of strenuous and unceasing toil,
That all may not become a foeman’s spoil—
That it may not be told, some fateful day:
“Ten years they had; ten years they fooled away.”)
Peace, perfect peace. . . . Ho, let the fun begin,
And split the welkin with a joyous din!
Charybdis grim has ceased to roar and rave,
And Scylla sits demurely in her cave.
Ho! clash the cymbals, and begin the race!
And thank the gods we have a breathing-space.
VICTORIA.
C.J.D.


STEINWAY
Pianos
e
In the Homes of Refinement—At the fore-
most Concerts
It Is Always a STEINWAY
SOLE AGENTS
NICHOLSON & CO., Limited,
342 George St. Sydney.
WE SELL ON
EASY TERMS.
Write for our
Illustrated Catalogue.
WE ALLOW FULL
VALUE FOR OLD
INSTRUMENTS.
Mignon Pianos
The Most Popular Medium-priced
Pianos in Australia.
EASY TERMS, to Year’s Guarantee.
Sole Agents
Nicholson & Co., Limited,
342 George St., Sydney.
WILL DO WHAT
YOU THINK IT WON’T!
h Y wrPATHE
PROJECTING MACHINE
o- O
You. will soon find than even
a bad pidiure becomes perfect.
CONSTRUCTED ON ABSOLUTELY SCIENTIFIC PRINCIPLES.
A MARVEL OF STRENGTH AND ACCURACY.
AS FIRM AS A ROCK. NOT A GHOST OF A FLICKER.
There are other Projecting Machines,
but not one that will give anything
like the satisfaction that PATHE’S
LATEST 1911 MODEL does
Specially Constructed to stand Australian Climatic Conditions
and the Wear and Tear of Rough Travelling.
pathTfreres
51 Elizabeth Street, Sydney;
50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
t:
•it**
FOR DRESS FUNCTIONS
Farmer’s Quality Tailoring.
TO know that your Dress Clothes are right, and to feel that in 'efinable
complaisance which well cut, well finished clothes always give, is
to be at ease in any company and under any circumstances. We aim
at perfection in each Suit entrusted to our care, and from the selection of
materials to the final touch, it is supervised by one of our expert cutters.
Gentlemen’s Dress Suits, Dinner Jackets, etc
In Black Venetian Dress Coating, Vicuna Cloth, or File Dress Worsted Coatings.
Dress Suits
Dinner Suits
Dinner Jackets
Dress Vests
Dress Trousers
Prices, £6/6/=, £7/7/=, and £B/8/=
Prices, 95/=, £5/5/=, £5/15/=, £6/6/=
... Prices, from 57/6
... Price, 17/6 each
Price, 21/= per pair
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
ACMAR
7
Jw Sheep-branding Fluid
m that lasfs from shearing
m to shearing.
M Yel* comes out completely
i in rhe scouring of fhe woof
DOES NOT MAT THE ELEECE
Vacuum Oil Company Propty. Lid.
Throughou'r rhe Commonweairh
and Mew Zealand.
fd


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
HAVE YOU PILES?
Remarkable Cure Effected by Dr. Morse
Indian Root Pills.
Perhaps there is no disease more irritating
and annoying than Piles. It is the result ot
imperfect circulation of the blood. lne
venous blood settles in the veins ot the rec-
tum, and, expanding these veins, produces
the nodules known as Piles. This is some-
times produced by an inactive liver, which
does not permit the blood to return freely to
the heart; sometimes it is the result ot a
weak action of the heart itself, and often it
is due to large masses of faeces lodging in the
bowels and pressing upon the veins, so that
the blood cannot return to heart a.nd lungs.
This disease is not only most painful, but
also very dangerous, as the inflamed nodules
are very apt to take on malignant action,
and cancer of the rectum is produced. Pi'-
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, in their action on
the liver, heart and bowels, strike at ah
these causes of Piles and remove them. l
have been a resident of Oamaru for years,
and for many years I was employed in the
Railway Department,” writes Mr. D-
Blair, Wansback-street, Oamaru, N.Z. feome
years ago, through frequently getting wet,
I became subject to Piles. I tried man.\
remedies, but none have given me more reiie
and had more permanent results, than f»r.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. The bleeding
and dreadful itching which disturbed np
sleep night after night was _ speedily over-
come when I commenced using these pm--
My wife was a martyr to Biliousness. Din
I)r. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have entirely
rid her of that trouble, and a pill tak<en oc-
casionally has had a most wonderful enec
upon her health. We both recommend yo ■
valuable remedy, and you may use this n
any wav you desire.”
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES * CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARPIE.
Brewert and Offices:
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Arnst-Pearce match for the Cham-
pionship, and £5OO a side, takes place on this com-
ing Saturday, the 29th. At 4 p.m. sharp the scullers
will start from Ryde Bridge, and the finish will be
at Searl’s monument, the distance being 3 miles
330 yards. Arnst will be 28 in November; he will
scale 13st. 31b., and stands 6ft. iin. in his socks.
Pearce was 32 on Saturday last, and by the book
should weigh 12st. 101 b. on the day of the race. He
is exactly 6ft. long. If they row at these weights
there will only be 71b. difference in their tonnage;
but, looking at the two men, it does not seem possible
to get them so close without over-training the one
and under-training the other. The winner takes the
whole £lOOO, passes £5OO to his backers, pays his
expenses out of the other £5OO. and banks the
balance; the exes, will probably amount to £lOO per
man. Then there should be a few hundred pounds
from the steamers and the cinematograph pictures.
The winner stands to make £6OO or £7OO clear
profit; but the loser comes out rather badly.
* * * *
The fact that Pearce’s backers are now ask-
ing longer odds indicates that the curious and
unjustifiable confidence of the last few weeks is on
the wane. Of course, with almost a week to go,
Arnst may possibly go off, or maybe Pearce is not
displaying his prowess to full extent; but it is cer-
tain that, on the public work of the two men, Pearce
is not a match for Arnst. He does not get the
same weight on his sculls; neither is his sweep as
long. Moreover, Arnst is roughly a stone heavier
than Pearce, and he puts his weight to much more
use. So this writer’s expectations still go in Arnst’s
ark.
League Rugby in Sydney on Saturday
was of the strenuous type. Players had had a week’s
spell, and were neighing like young war-horses for
scrap. And naturally in those colliding masses of
valor and energy the earnest seeker could be sure of
finding scrap. At Wentworth Park, where Glebe
stamped North Sydney flat, the crowd rushed the
ground, and there was scrap galore, and fragments
of barrackers were plentiful. At the Agricultural
Ground the scrapping took place among the players.
While Messenger was on the broad of his back a
gentleman from Western Suburbs started perform-
ing on him the operation known in the vernacular
as “getting into his neck.” A rescuer arrived, and
then an anti-rescuer, and the mill became general.
The referee arrived, and Messenger and the gentle-
man who was getting into his neck, and the other
gent who was trying to prevent it, were ordered off
the ground altogether. Why he ordered Messenger
off, unless it was for medical attention, is hard to
understand. When the row became general, the
referee blew his whistle and ordered both teams off
the ground. Then gentlemen rolled up their sleeves
and ladies drew hatpins, but 14 “Johns” appeared
from nowhere and assumed the offensive, and the
crowd that was waiting to deal with the referee was
shooed off the ground.
* * * *
Union Rugby is now split into two divi-
sions, and University (18 points), Newtown (16),
Western Suburbs and Manly (13 each) compete for
the premiership. The other six—Glebe, Eastern
Suburbs, Balmain, South Sydney, North Sydney, and
St. George—are out of the hunt. University caught
Western Suburbs on the ’Varsity Oval, and scrunched
it by 18 points to 3. Newtown crossed over to
Manly, and fell on the Villagers in great style.
Manly couldn’t respond worth tuppence, and literally
went to pieces just before half-time, so Newtown re-
turned home with 13 points to nil. In the second
division, South Sydney downed Balmain by 12 to 8 ;
St. George killed the Eastern Suburbs dragon by 28
to 6, and Glebe kicked up 22 points against a miser-
able three by North Sydney.
* * * *
A curious feature of Sydney football on
Saturday was that the League and Union teams of
Glebe beat the League and Union teams of North
Sydney by almost identical scores. In the League
tussle'Glebe won by 24 points to six; in the Union,
by 22 to three.
In neither form of Rugby is Balmain
doing very well. In fact, in the League competition
it is bottom of the list. But that does not mean
that Balmain can’t play football. It means that
they play Soccer there. On Saturday a Balmain
team smashed up Newtown, and won the Associa-
tion Cup (there is one match to go with Garden
Island, but its result can’t affect the destination of
the utensil), while another team was stamping New-
town flat in the struggle for the Association Cup,
and a third was pounding the Navy to pieces in the
fight for the Rawson trophy. It won easily with 5
goals to 1, and leads in the competition for the Raw-
son Cup by two points.
* * * *
By downing Annandale (eight to nil),
South Sydney keeps top of the Rugby League com-
petition with 16 points. Glebe managed to turn the
tables on North Sydney, dishing the Hillmen by 24
to 6 ; and so it is second on the list with 14 points.
Newtown, which ran over Balmain (16 to 7), is now
only third, with 12 points. Eastern Suburbs, through
scoring only a draw with Western Suburbs, is fourth
with 11 points. Below these are only single figures.
None of Saturday’s play was startling. Glebe started
from the jump to chop North Sydney to pieces, and
did it. Perhaps the best match of the day was the
stubborn stand made by the plucky Annandale team
against South Sydney. It was not till the last 10
minutes that the game was lost, and then more by
luck than by play. The struggle between Eastern
and Western Suburbs was somewhat humorous. Easts
were there to score a walk-over victory, and found
something like a conquering team; and but for the
riot bringing the game to an early end, the chances
are Wests would have won. The Eastern Suburbs
crowd had quite lost its temper, and was rapidly
losing the game.
* » » *
Those Sydney people who have the hal-
lucination that there is nothing in the Australian
football game should have been at Erskineville on
Saturday, when the Ivalgoorlie (W.A.) Railway team
met a Sydney XVIII. Although conditions were all
against them, the vis’tors gave a fine di«plav of the
scientific side of the game. Perfectly disciplined, cool
as frozen cucumbers, fast as buttered lightning, the
Westralians showed a combination that has rarely
been equalled in Sydney. It was human chess —
and nothing less. Against that beautiful order and
splendid oomb'nntion the Sydney XVIIT. was helpless.
Still, Kalgoorlie was merciful. It might have won
by what it liked, but apparently saw nothing in
rubbing it in. It was here to educate, and was con-
tent to walk through with 89 points to 66.
* * * *
Saturday’s Melbourne ’oofball didn’t
settle the momentous question whether ’Roy or ’Wood
would miss being in the “final four.” The Magpies
collided with South. Victory to either side meant
a lot; defeat meant much or little, according to
circumstances. The premiers went off with the lead,
and at half-time had collared a three-goal advantage.
But the tremendous effort had told, and by lemon-
time Skinner’s hirelings had reduced the difference
to 12 points. The last term saw the Southerners
slowly overhauling the ’Woodsmen. The tired de-
fenders kept the attackers off, with five points still
in hand, until, as the time-keeper stretched out his
hand to the bell, an unguarded Southerner marked the
ball right in front, and swiftly booted it through,
and the game went to the Red and Whites —37 points
to ’Wood’s 36. It was a considerable feat for the
winners; but, when the two meet again, as they are
pretty sure to do, the writer’s cash will go on the
Magpies. Less eagerness and more assurance would
have gained them the day. Down at Geelong ’Roy
was fighting for its life. It has a tougher pro-
gramme ahead than ’Wood, and victory meant every-
thing. But the Seasiders played a game that para-
lysed ’Rov. There was little to choose between them
at lemon-time, but the terrible last quarter—the one
that tests the untrained, the half-hearted and the
novices—saw Geelong carrying all before it, piling
up 27 points to ’Roy’s 9, and winning by 74 to 39.
Of the others, Carlton walloped Richmond by 76 to
41 : Essendon smashed ’Varsity by 80 to 42, and
Melbourne pulverised St. Kilda by 77 to 39. But
these were merely exhibition games, and in no way
affect the premiership.
The most considerable episode of the day occurred
out on the bleak Footscray ground, where the locals
beat the hitherto unbeaten Essendon (Ass.) team by
5 goals 10 behinds to 5 goals 5 behinds. It
was a narrow victory, but it gave tremendous joy
to ’Scray, and left ’Don disgruntled. The latter was
still ahead of all competitors, with a mortgage on
the premiership, but its chance of accomplishing the
rare feat of going through the season unbeaten was
gone—and all for the lack of one measly goal. On
the adjacent ground, at Williamstown, Brunswick
lost much of its grip of “final” chances, by totting
up the same old five goals, but neglecting to acquire
as many behinds as ’Town —45 to 39. A goal here
would also have meant much. Port made a game
effort to keep its end up against P’ran, but failed
by eight points—4B to P’ran’s 56. But as Bruns-
wick also met disaster, there is still corn in Egypt
for the Portonians, though it begins to look rather
shrivelled. North castigated Northcote by 73 to 27,
and Brighton and Preston indulged in a disturbance
that mattered to nobody but themselves.
* * * *
The news that “Dally” Messenger would
not go with the “Kangaroos” is a heavy smack at the
drawing power of the League team. As a gate asset Mes-
senger is unrivalled; and the news of his coming had
made the Englishmen look forward to a mighty treat.
Last time he was in the Cold Country the stolid
crowds were fascinated by the comet from Eastern
Suburbs. Now a rather charming young widow has
put two dainty feet through the whole arrangement,
smashed half the hopes of the Kangaroo team, cut off
vast supplies of coin from its pouch, and disap-
pointed England. Truly lovely woman can make a
wreck of things.
* * * *
Adelaide’s big annual college football con-
flict —-Princes v. Saints —sent the latter home with
their halos awry, the scores being 57 against 33.
Princes have won 19 of the last 29 matches. In
1883 they won by 81 points to nil, and, if a record
was kept previous to that year, the Saints hope the
moths have eaten it.
* * * *
Maoriland ’oofball has this season already
killed two players and injured a number of others.
All branches of the sport of “muddied oafs” have
contributed to the accident list. And there have
been other casualties. Two of the Otago team which
lost the British Association match with Christchurch
for the Brown Shield have been passed out for bad
conduct; and in Auckland a whole team has been
suspended for rough play and rougher language.
* * * *
Hugbie Mehegan, light-weight champion
of the Six States, was never exposed to any particular
danger in the course of Mark Higgins’s attack at the
Melbourne Athletic Club’s punch-bowl. Higgins
coveted Mehegan’s eminence and the butt-end of a
corpulent purse, and tried hard for both; but the
harder he tried the more apparent it became that he
was not the man for the job. One may safely affirm
that Hughie knows more than Mark can ever learn,
in addition to which he is the better machine. In
the earlier rounds the champion rammed his op-
ponent about the body, and extinguished his fire in
three rounds. Higgins was down in the third, re-
flecting. He made a bit of a flutter in No. 4, and
succeeded in landing one fairly effective cross in the
vicinity of Mehegan’s chin in the fifth, which latter
so disgusted Hughie that he woodened Mark with the
right. Mark sat it out, only reaching perpendicular
just in time. The fight was already won, but Higgins
remained in action till the eighth, when his corner
lowered its flag on humanitarian principles.
* * * *
When the Mclnstoush arranged the fight
between Jack Johnson and Bombardier Wells he
offered the champion £6OOO, win, lose or draw. It
was a big price to offer for such a fight, but pre-
sumably the Mac. knows what he is about. Johnson,
however, thinks he does not, and has demanded £3OOO
of the money “right now,” and the balance before
entering the ring. It would have been a treat to
hear the McTnstoush in reply to this impudent de-
mand from the gentleman who so flagrantly broke
faith with the Sporting Club over his fight with
Langford ; but no cable or mail would carry the in-
candescent words. The chances are that Johnson is
still feeling scorched where they struck him. If
Johnson sticks out the chances are that there will be
no fight with Bombardier Wells, and his pugilistic
career, as far as England is concerned, will end sud-
denlv. The vagaries of Johnson are becoming a
little wearisome.
That Mclntosh is sending Sammy Lang-
ford and Jim Flynn to Sydney to fight Lang, Lester,
Squires and Peter Felix is about the most astound-
ing fistic news that has struck Sydney for a while.
Lang might make a decent fight, and Lester is quite
an unknown quantity—but Squires and Peter Felix!
Peter Felix and Squires! What about old Dan
Oreedon, Peter McColl and Terrible Tiny ?
* * * *
“Akrakadabra”: I see J. Johnson re-
ferred to as “the only black gladiator” left, now that
Langford has been knocked out. The man who wrote
that word had better be careful. When Ike Stewart
and Starlight met for the second time, and as they
sat in their corners, the referee announced the
“second meeting of these two great black gladia-
tors.” Starlight sprang up and addressed the crowd.
He had fought many times and in many places —had
appeared at the National Sporting Club, London —
and had never before been insulted by a referee
calling him a black alligator, and he was going to
see about it afterwards.
* * * *
H. W. Stevenson arrived in Melbourne
last week, and is just now playing a 12,000-up with
Reece at Alcock’s Room. Reece, with 2000 start,
was as good as his master at the outset of the game,
but the “champion” obviously wanted time to warm
up after his travels. When the argument with
Reece is finished, Stevenson will take on Lindrum,
giving him a start, as a matter of championship
etiquette. Both will be limited to 25 consecutive
hazards off the red.
* * * *
The tournament of Victorian amateur
billiardists ended last week in the triumph of U. Von
der Luft, who beat C. M. Cock (the best stylist of
them all) by 1000 to 823 in the final. Arthur Tricks,
the established champion of previous seasons, refused
to defend his title this time, on the ground that the
V.A.B.A. rule of nowadays puts the old champion at
a disadvantage. Both Von der Luft and Cock have
been several times beaten in tournaments, where
Tricks was either the winner or runner-up, so it
would seem that amateur billiard form in Mel-
bourne has lost weight by the retirement of the old
hand. The best breaks that the winner made in this
year’s final were 93, 76 and 57, against Cock’s 109,
55 and 43, neither man showing much strength at
the “red loser” game which George Gray has so
mightily developed.
* * * *
Saturday was a great day among the
baseballers in Sydney, for there were two parties of
invaders wearing meat-covers over their faces, fry-
ing-pans on their hands, and liver-pads over their
vitals. The visitors represent Tasmania and Vic-
toria, and the campaign is to extend over three
days. The Tassies were novices at the game; from
start to finish they had no show against the well-
trained, easy-playing Cornstalks, and were disposed
of by 30 to nil. The Victorians were a tougher
problem ; but again the Ma Staters proved too good,
and won with a margin of 10 runs. The 2000 who
looked on at the glorified rounders followed the
details with as much interest as if they were a
Shakspearian society watching Irving’s first per-
formance. Evidently, it is a game to be studied.
* * * *
W. G. Ingleton, who captained Victorian
baseballers on Saturday, has the tall record of having
played in 46 inter-State matches, and also had a
seat in the Australian team which worried Uncle
Sam’s players a few years ago.
* * * •*
N.S.W. Cricket Association is awakening
out of winter sleep in preparation for a heavy sea-
son. The coming of the English XL will disorganise
premiership matches considerably; and an early
start will be made to get headway on before the
invasion takes place. Thanks to the Springboks’ ramble
last year, the Association has £1873 in the cotters to
begin the season —out of which £5OO will be do-
nated to clubs to put a level surface on the grounds
after their rooting by the muddied oafs.
* » * *
Dorliam Doolette, the father of the awful
Bullfinch fizzle, has had still worse luck with his
start on the turf. The first two jockeys he engaged
in W.A. were immediately wiped out by the racing
clubs.
* * * *
Though the Auckland Club (M.L.) loses
two days through the “adjustments” made by the
Government Commission, it will give away in the 11
remaining days £28,915 in stakes, or only £9OO
less than last year. The racing clubs’ howl over the
general reduction in the number of race-days is still
in good working order.
* * * *
The professional athletic atmosphere is
choking with challenge and bluff. Yankee Ilolway,
who gathered in the recent three-cornered sprint, has
got the better of his desire to rush home to Uncle
Sam, and has fixed up matches with Trembath
(400yds.) and Donaldson (100yds., 130yds. and
150yds.) ; and Postle and the other runners are pro-
mised consideration later on.
* * * *
Although the winter is well advanced,
there does not seem much chance of a decent track
being laid down on the Victorian Amateur Sports’
Ground (late Friendly Societies’ Gardens) in time
for the track season. The trustees are catering for
amateur wheelers and motorists, but, so far, the
peds. are out of the swim. Yet a cinder track is
badly needed. “Dad” Wheatley, who finished second
in the half-mile at the London Festival of Empire
Games, writes out, saying that he has been greatly
handicapped, owing to want of practice on the cinder
path; and it seems unfair to send representatives to
the Olympic Games and other big contests without
affording them the necessary facilities to compete
with the world’s best under favorable conditions.
* * * *
R. T. O. Rennick put up a slashing per-
formance when he won the Dave Scott Memorial Race
(130vds.) at the Queensland A.A.A. championship
meeting the other day. The going was very heavy—
about an inch and a-half of rain had fallen in the
previous 24 hours —but Rennick, starting from
scratch, got over the distance, which was subse-
quently measured, and found to be half a yard short
of 130yds., in 13sec.
* * * *
The battle for the Sydney Lacrosse pre-
miership is very strenuous this year. Last week’s
dust-up left Petersham on top with 20 points, Stan-
more 19, Sydney 18, Mosman 15, and the balance
very drawn-out. The visit of teams from Queens-
land and Victoria, next month, and the rush for
seats in the two N.S.W. teams, is responsible for
much of the new vim that marks the game.
* * *
Australian champion golfess, Miss Par-
bury, added the N.S.W. State championship to her
jersey, for the second time, last week, after a tourna-
ment in which the champion outshone all others.
She defeated Mrs. Lethbridge in the final by 6 up and
4 to play—which is almost equal to annihilation. A
sorry part about the championship was the notice:
“Players are advised to bring their caddies,” and,
though it didn’t debar the small boy from parading
the links, it left the matter open for each lady to
choose her own most-favored size of “boy.”
* * * *
The S. Aus. Waterloo Cup—the State’s
big coursing event —had an odd finish this year. It
was taken down into the Strathalbvn district, where
hares seem to be more plentiful than at Buckland
Park or Hill River, the old coursing places.
There are a few prickly-pear hedges about —so far
south the pear does not get out of hand and become
a pest—and, in the final. Chorus picked up a thorn,
and stopped ; yet she had scored so many points that
Ring On, chasing the hare alone, could not wipe
them out. Chorus comes from Nhill, and is the first
Victorian to win the S.A. Waterloo.
* * * *
Terrible news from England last week to
the effect that Anthony Wilding does not think he
will be able to get back in time to play for Aus-
tralasia in defence of the Davis Cup! Desperate
endeavors are to be made to secure his services, and
the lawn tennis people hope that the fact that
Christchurch, his birthplace, is to be the battle-
ground, may prove the last straw to break the back
of his unwillingness; but the chances are there is
no unwillingness about it —it is probably an
affair of business. It will be an irreparable loss if
he cannot come. That is the trouble with Aus-
tralasian tennis —we have no young giants in view
waiting to take the places of those who are growing
old.
* * * *
The Cyclists’ Union ran off two heats of
the Dunlop Team Premiership on Saturday. The
first was between Eastern and Western Suburbs. It
was an easy victory for the Western team, which
lost onlv 14 points in the 20 miles run, while
Eastern 'Suburbs lost 22. The victors ran through
in 54min. ssec., which, considering the wind, was
excellent going. The second heat was between the
“B. and B.” and Hurstville clubs, and the result
was exactly the same as between the first two.
“B. and B*” won, with a loss of 14 points to the
Hurstville’s 22; but the winning team took a trifle
longer over the journey—s7tnin. 59sec. The third
and fourth heats will be run over the same course
(Homebush) next Saturday. The team that wins
the competition carries off the Dunlop Shield, which
is the outward and visible sign of the road cham-
pionship of N. S. Wales. Two shields have so far
been won outright—by Balmain in 1904 and Enfield
in 1906. The third is now being contested for.
Western Suburbs has got temporary possession of it
twice, in 1907 and 1909. Last year it was carried
off by Marrickville. Western Suburbs has great
hopes of annexing it permanently this time.
The long arm of coincidence again. Twelve
years ago the Dunlop Rubber 00. organised an Aus-
tralasian 100 miles inter-club road relay race. Each
club supplied 10 riders, and each rider had to cover
a 10-mile section with a despatch. After a very
close contest the trophy was won by the Christchurch
Cycling Club (M.L.), in 4hr. 29min. 80sec. In May
last a similar tussle was held in the United States
and the winning team took the same time—even to
the seconds. . .
* * * *
The cable says that George Westing-
house, of brake fame, has perfected an “air-spring
wheel” which will do away with pneumatic tyres.
The fly in the ointment is that Westinghouse, like
Edison, is always announcing wonderful discoveries
that come to nothing. Little more than a year ago
Mr. Westing-house informed the world that he had
invented an air spring which would do away with
pneumatic tyres. The air spring consisted of a series
of brass tubes which worked into each other like a
cylinder and a piston ; one set of four tubes was to
be fixed to the frame, while those that worked into
them were fastened to the axles i so the whole weight
of the chassis rested on four columns of compressed
air The invention was said to have proved a success
in a series of tests, but it was never put on the
market. It is quite possible that the recent cable
referred to the old air spring, for what an air-spring
wheel” can be Heaven only knows.
* * *
Uncle Sam has begun to get ashamed of
his shocking roads; and a vast sum—alleged to be
£. 24,000,000 —is to be spent next road-malang season
on the commencement of a series of great national
highways. This gigantic wad is but the first of a
series of annual contributions for the same good
purpose. The vote of the motor hog is evidentlv
growing in value in the United #
Last Fridav Miss Denise Moore opened the
list of dead aviatrices. She was a member of the
Farman Aviation School, and was. flying at Etampes
(France) when she fell from a height of 130 ft, and
—well, what would you expect? In August last
vear “Madame Franck” (Mrs. Hewetson) went close
to being the pioneer. She was flying near Suther-
land, when she struck a flagpole and fell. A boy
standing near was killed, but she got off with serious
# * *
Motorists are painting their tyres white at
brief intervals, and it makes for smartness. But
smartness is not the object; it is the. by-produ -
The real object is to prevent the sunlight striking
on the vulcanised rubber. Direct sunlight is more
injurious to vulcanised rubber than tin tacks, and
in Australia tyres get much sunlight. The pamt
becomes a protecting case, and by excludingthe
light prolongs the life of the tyre. But beware.
Oh, my brother! Use only the correct kind oi
paint—a special preparation in which there is no
oil. Oil is as bad as light, if not worse.
A 40-year-old advt. from a pious Scawtch
newspaper. It was the tourist season among the bon-
nie heather, and the ad. referred to a four-horse
coach and a Hieland roadside inn: The Duchess of
Montrose leaves the Duke’s Arms at 7.15 every morn-
ing except Sunday.” The hard sanctity of the
Scotchbyterian Sawbath was never more tenderly ex-
pressed than in that little ad.
Captain Grant, of the Bth Gurkhas, who
has been appointed to help Maoriland get
together a better defence than a Dread-
nought stationed alongside China, won a
V C." in 1905. Up Thibet way they still
curse in 10 dialects when they recollect how
Grant led his crowd up a hill against a
storm of bullets, rocks, whirling knives and
scandalous language, leaped with one Ghurka
into the native fort, and Jack Johnsoned
everybody in the place.
WELL MEANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One Moriarty, a ’Hoy delegate, at a recent meet-
ing of the Vic. Pootbrawl League, cried aloud against
police interference at matches. “A lan likes a
punch or two to see if he can stand it,” said Mor-
iarty. “A knock-down now and then doesn’t matter,
so long as it is well meant.”
The fightball warrior who smites,
And darkens his opponent’s lights,
A generous respect invites.
He does not stoush the other gent
With malice, or with foul intent—
His biff’s invariably well meant.
The lad who takes the jabs and chips,
May have an ear that hangs in strips,
And wear his teeth outside his lips,
But he is grateful, and will give
His hand, for now he’s positive
What punching he can take, and live.
The player who elects to croak,
He’s just a poor, unlucky bloke
Who didn’t live to see the joke.
Upon his monument indent
This simple football sentiment,
In letters large: “It was well meant!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


STEIDLE & LUX
294 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
*
‘The BlocK.”
Telephone 3429.
HER EXCELLENCY
THE COUNTESS OF OaCU
V
CURLS
To obtain a
natural effect a
Bunch of Curls
mounted on our
latest principle is
indispensable*
Specially designed
SWITCH ES
mounted to pro-
cure the soft
swathing effect
now in vogue.
LL our Artificial Hair Accessories are Exquisitely
Fashioned, and can be so arranged as to give the
most natural and charming effects.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
HOME
NEW
medical APPARATUS
W|7H DRY BATTERY
&
m
Price 35|-
Post
Free.
JERDAN’S "HOME”
BATTERY
Ailments.
WE illustrate here a Medical Battery that
is better and more efficacious than the
best Electric Belt ever made.
No other Electric Medical Appliance can
equal the good qualities and health-giving
features of this grand “HOME” Battery.
For Rheumatism it is unequalled—it not
only relieves, but permanently cures by
accelerating the flow of blood and driving the
disease from the body.
In fact, there is nothing better, more
effective and reliable for all winter ailments—
Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.—
than this little Battery.
The “ HOME ” Battery is used in the leading
Hospitals, and supplied to the Medical Pro-
fession all over Australasia, and will cure
everything that Electricity is good for.
It is simple in its working, easily adapted to
persons of any age, and costs' nothing to
maintain.
WRITE FOR OUR BATTERY BOOKLET.
WE SEND IT FREE.
“ MY OPTICIANS,’*
Opticians and Electricians,
JERDAN’S
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney.
00 (double‘o')
Old Orkney Whisky
I3||9JD6!3
UMO
inoK
If is
twice
cis good
\ CIGARETTE
f PAPER
BBST axvd
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros, 255? George S‘ Sydney
*» m
Points
Snventorj
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
1 The quickest way to ascertain this.
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential •
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA. ’
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE “MOTA” HAT
( Regd.).
THE man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a DESIRE for the “ Mora”—he
has a NEED for one. For the “Mota”at a
small price is the most comfortable and most dis-
tinctively stylish Soft Felt of the day.
For motoring’, cycling, riding, driving and general
wear for town and country it is the Ideal Hat.
The material is good—it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit your style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “ Mota ” is registered, and the design
also. Bevyare of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
u
a r *>
/
O
BSi
The product of
Qhe source only
More miles on * Shell" than
oo any other.
Its perfect puritv —that's
the point'
The'Standavd Kemcdy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1696.
CURES
Austrian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
sk y™ r « hemis t tor its history—the buok is free—or write
S- GREEN, 210, Lambetli Road, London, Eng.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “Stockport
Remedy ” for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
H ESS°PH°N E
THE
Natural Talking
Machines.
from £3 to £27/10/-
favorTFe stes
RECORDS
5j - eac h- 5 /■ cac^-
Needles 9d., 1/-, 1/5,1/6 per box.
PATHE ATTACHMENTS.
Sound Boxes ... 17/6 each
Sapphires ... 2/6 „
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Write to us or our Agents—
J. HESS & CO.,
199 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
fd
Look manly and
smart by growing an attrac-
tive Moustache. ‘MOUSTA,’
the True Moustache Grower,
speedily forces one at any
age like magic. Quite harmless to use.
Boys become men. ‘ Mousta ’is used
all over the world and is strongly
recommended by the Medical Pro-
fession. Entire success or money willingly
returned. ‘ Mousta ’ produces astonishingly
quick results and is the talk of London.
Full Treatment, sufficient to promote Good
Growth, 5/- (postage 6d. extra), sent at once
in plain wrapper on receipt of International
Money Order, 5/6. Send now to—
F. DIXON & CO., 42, Junction Road,
London, N., England.
c
HEAP,Second-Hand 15 BrakeH.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
A LIGHT, SPEEDY CYCLE FOR £l3|lo/-
g
For that amount you can purchase a cycle designed on scientific principles to
combine lightness with great strength.
It is very easy running ; a fact due to the use of B.S.A. parts in every portion
of the machine—remember, EVERY PORTION.
The frame is the popular low style, and can be finished in black, blue, red or
green as de>ired ; and nickel parts are heavily plated on copper.
We would be glad to show you one any time it is convenient to call. Pitt Street
Depot is open till 9 p.m. on Fridays. Write for catalogue if you cannot get in.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
The Largest Cycle Building- House in the State.
.234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
„NVAU»
The Ideal Earth Borer.
NO Farm or Orchard should be without its “ Iwan ” Post Hole
Digger. On a fencing job anything from 120 to 200 holes in a
day can be bored. It cuts the hole just the size for the post,
and no time’s lost ramming. Sinking for water, the “Iwan” digger
will bore down to 35 feet. Empties with a shake. Rigidly built, per-
fectly balanced, and has no adjustable parts to loosen or stick.
“ Drop the crowbar! Get the Reliable, Fast-Digging ‘ IWAN.’ ”
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 inch.
7/- 7/-. 7/- 7/- 7/6 8/6 9/6 10/- 27/- 34/- each.
thomas mcpherson & son,
“The House for Up-to-date Tools,”
582-588 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
St
5
256 pages,
over 2000
illustra-
tions of
tool s—
that’s our
Catalogue,
and it’s
Post Free
to all!
■QUALITY SHOES.
We want you to look into the high quality of Rigney Shoes for
men, and you will soon see what excellent shoes they really are.
No matter how particular you are about the fit, the shape, the
style and the finish of your footwear, you will be more than pleased
with a pair of Rigney Shoes.
Patent Calf Oxford Shoe, Circular Vamp, Back Counter, Calf
Kid Leg, Patent Lace Face Perforations, Walking or Dress Wear.
Price 25/- Postage 9d. extra.
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR NEW CATALOGUE.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and
179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. F. C. Rigney, the
sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
hgf


A. SAUNDERS
FOR VALUE VARIETY QUALITY.
25/-
25/
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, J-plate, full
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance, 25/- Guaranteed one
year’s free repair.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold BROOCH, set Pearls
Ruby, and Turquoise, or all
Pearls, '£3/10/.
G
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Circle BROOCH,
set Pearls and Red or
Blue Stones, 20/-
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Bracelet PAD-
DOCK, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT, set
Pure White Pearls and
Rubies, Peridots, or Tour-
malines, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Special Qua-
lity Pure Double-cut Dia-
-monds, £2O-
A. SAUNDERS.
<)ct Cold CIRCLE BROOCH,
sot Red and Green Stones,
15/.
1
A. SAUNDERS.
Cold, Amethyst, and Heart
CHARM, 10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, set Parisian Dia-
monds, 10/
A. SAUNDERS.
<Jct Gold BIRD and SPRAY
BROOCH, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, 12/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLORAL SPRAY
Pure Pearls, £
BROOCH,
15et Gold BROOCH, set 11 Diamonds,
1 Pink and Green Tourmaline,
£5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Jsct Gold SPRAY and BIRD
BROOCH, Pure White Pearls,
£2/15/,
m
(if
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bar BROOCH. Pearls and Amethysts,
30/
rnslrn
max'-. YffJ
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold FORGET-ME-NOT BROOCH,
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-BIRD BROOCH, , Pearl-set,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold FLORAL SPRAY
Fine Pure White, Double-cut
£l7/10/-
BROOCH,
Diamonds,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Double-case Lever WATCH, Full Chro-
nometer Balance, Ruby-jewelled, Patent
Non-magnetic Time Spring, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver HAT
PIN, Strong
Steel Stem,
I/O
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EAR-RINGS, set
Pearls and Tur-
quoise Drop,
25/-
WE
PAY
POSTAGF
ON
ALL
JEWEL-
LERY
ORDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Doable
BUCKLE RING,
17/(>
18ct Gold, Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond SCROLL
RING, £2O.
Cf
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
Rubies, or Sap-
pldres, £3/5/.
A . SAUNDERS
40/
40/.
4
A. SUNDERS.
Oct Gold PEN-
DANT, set Ame-
thysts and
Pearls, 40/-
A. SAUNDERS.
JSct Gold, set ft
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £5-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond, £7710/
j
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 5
Pure Double-cut,
Diamonds,
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 3-stone
Cross-over RING,
set 5 Pure Double
Cut Diamonds,
£lO
WE
SEND
OUR
JEWEL-
LERY
CATA-
LOG
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, set
14 Pure Double-
cut Diamonds and
Ohoice Black
Opal, £l5-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 4
Diamonds and
Red or Blue
Stones, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, set
Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones,
12/6
illiiiiiniißiiiii
PNliiaißaY
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot Gold BRACELET, set Pure Double-cut Dia-
monds and Opals, Rubies, or Sapphires, £l5-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold set
Red Stone oe
Olivine,
10/6.
fgj
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and BROOCH COMBINA-
TION, set Pearls and Amethysts, Red Stones, or
Green Stones, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray and Drop
NECKLET, set Fine Pure White Pearls,
£B/10/-
A. SAUiNDERS.
Solid Gold
Engraved
TIE-CLIP, 10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Prince of Wales MUFF CHAIN,
Well Made, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Goiu DOUBLE ALBERT,
£3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BAMBOO BRACELET, Safety Chain
attached, £3-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold WRISTLET WATCH, with Lea-
ther Strap, Full Jewelled. Patent Adiusted Balance,
Strong, Secure, Elegant, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BUTTERFLY BROOCH,
Pearls, Red or Blue Stones,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Coloured Stones, 10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SCROLL BROOCH, set
Pearls and Rubies, 15/.
20/
20/-
/
\
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Non-magnetic Time Spring, Dust and
Water Proof Cases, so/- .
Guaranteed 1 Year’s Free Repair.
JEWELLER,*
UltfCHSCfotyi
II M4KER /G
" SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
8C7,809.811.813.815,817.GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
»SILVERSMITH


J. D. WILLIAMS’ ANSWER
TO A THOUSAND LIES, AND WITH HEARTFELT THANKS AND APPRE=
CIATION FOR THE GREAT AND LOYAL SUPPORT OF NUMEROUS
FRIENDS, PATRONS AND THE PUBLIC IN GENERAL OF AUSTRALIA.
MY advent in Australia was to pronnote various amusement enterprises, but under Modern Enterprise conditions, which
meant
PLACING AUSTRALIA ON A PAR WITH NEW YORK AND LONDON.
My first endeavor was the Colonial Theatre No. I, where I originated and introduced to the Sydney Public
CONTINUOUS PHOTO PERFORMANCES.
The preliminary announcements in reference to this enterprise Were greeted with ridicule and prognostications of dismal failure.
The theatre, the style of performance, and everything Connected with same were maligned right and left. My Company were called
foreigners and butters-in. The theatre was termed “a penny peep show/' and generally referred to by certain persons in con-
temptible terms. Nothing daunted, I had seen this battle of Modem Enterprise against Monopoly fought out in other countries.
1 sawed wood and advertised, but in my advertisements 1 told the truth. 1 raised capital and equipped my theatre with up-to-
date and modern upholstered seats. 1 arranged for ladies’ rest rooms with lady attendants, and also gentlemen’s lavatories. 1
had representatives abroad, who were told to buy, without fear or favor, the best photo play productions the world’s most famous
makers produced. Through the press of Australia I told what 1 was doing, and what 1 proposed to do for the public. I kept
my word. The public responded—a few hundred came at first out of curiosity. They were agreeably surprised. What 1 claimed
for my theatres they found to be true. They spread the news, and business increased beyond all comprehension.
MODERN ENTERPRISE HAD CONQUERED.
1 increased the capital of my Companies. 1 built other theatres —each one an improvement on its predecessor. My last venture,
the Melba Theatre in Melbourne, is undoubtedly the finest Moving Picture Theatre in the world, and 1 can truthfully state that
the receipts of this Photo Play Theatre are more than any other photo-play theatre in the world. During all this time 1 met
opposition on every side—some secret, some open. The open and legitimate opposition 1 make no comments about. This is the
spice of trade. It puts every man on his mettle, and also goes to benefit the public. The secret and underhand opposition was
a bird of another feather. It has been to the imaginary advantage of certain persons to spread various rumors concerning my
Companies and myself. One rumor lately circulated is to the effect that lam severing my connection with the Greater J. D.
Williams Amusement Co., Ltd., and leaving for America for good. This report was spread about by some person or persons
unknown. This I wish to refute absolutely, and to state once and for all that I have no such intentions. My enterprises are
too big a success for any man in his sane senses to even dream of severing from. I am leaving for America on the 31st instant,
AND AM RETURNING ABOUT DECEMBER.
Each and every one of my theatres are now fitted and furnished in the most up-to-date and modern style, and I am going to
America, England and the Continent to get even better improvements, and to bring back new ideas in the amusement line. My
Companies will build new theatres in every city of importance in Australasia, and in each and every instance the prices of admis-
sion to any enterprise promoted or wherein I am interested will be the same as charged in America and England. Modern
Enterprise Prices of admission were laughed at when 1 first introduced same in a first-class theatre in Australia, but I showed
and proved to the public that an up-to-date, clean, amusing and educating photo-play performance could be given at these
theatres, and also that these prices would show the promoters a good profit. When I state that the theatres under my direc-
tion in Australia are now showing to over 80,000 patrons weekly, I am telling the truth without exaggeration. I stand prepared
to personally donate to any public charity £lOO if this statement cannot be verified by the books of the said Company. So
when I state that
WE HAVE CONQUERED THE ENEMY,
and that they are ours, lam making no idle boast. 1 bear malice toward no man, woman or child, or opposition concern.
May the best man win. Competition is the life of trade, for Modern Enterprise was, is, and always will be for the benefit of
the public, and my trade mark was, is, and always will be
“ADVANCE MODERN ENTERPRISE. NOTHING TOO GOOD FOR
AUSTRALIA.”
Believe me, sincerely and appreciatingly,
A servant of the Public, •
J. D. WILLIAMS.
P.S.—ln appreciation of the success attending my enterprises in Australia, it is my intention to personally spend £2OOO
while In America and England advertising this great, grand and glorious country, and 1 can furthermore assure the public that
Australia is good enough for me. The money that I have made, and am making, in this country is being re-invested in
Australia. The Companies which I have promoted now give employment to over 1000 persons of t both sexes, and the staff will
certainly be doubled in less than 18 months.
Furthermore, the Greater J, D. Williams Amusement Co., Ltd., and other Companies which 1 promoted are owned by
Australians and Australian capital;


THE PRICE OF THIS
COAT
is 35[-
THE produc-
tion of this
Macintosh
is the outcome
of our determin-
ation to produce
a first-class Coat
at a reasonable
price.
It possesses every
feature you could
desire in such an
article, being, as it
is, stylish, perfect-
fitting, comfortable
and lasting. The
materials are of
double texture,
rubber - proofed,
and are available in
either light or
medium weight
textures, in such
stylish shades as
Dark Greys, Fawns,
Kt
Olives and Blue Black. Price, 35-
Call and get one of these Coats, or send us your order
by mail. To ensure a correct fit,, you should state your
height and easy chest measurement over clothes. We
pay postage on Macintosh orders.
Price List and Sample Book of Materials sent free
on request.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,’’
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Your Home
at Your Wish.
THE EDISON PHONOGRAPH gives you
all of the best of all kinds of music.
It is always ready for playing; it is of
the right volume for the home; it is sweet,
clear, and life-like; it plays as long as you
want it to. It completes the home-circle —
entertaining the adults, and enabling the
children to grow up in full knowledge of
those wonderful masterpieces which stir the
hearts of all who listen to them.
Just drop us a postcard, and we will for-
ward complete lists of machines and records,
and give you the address of the Edison
dealer nearest you, so that you can hear for
yourself how perfectly the Edison reproduces.
The EDISON
Phonograph.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 2 0 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. .. 8 5 0 510 0
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns,choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial .. .. .. ~3100 117 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial.. .. .. .. 5 10 0 4 17 0
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0 0 710 ('»
Mauser Principle Bifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers.
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
sss Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co.» Manchester, Enrr.,
LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coughs, »nd
Golds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
ONE HONORED AND TWENTY-SIXTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT
OP
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House, George-
street, Sydney, on Friday, July 21, 1911.
«
The Directors subnlit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the
Bank on June 30, 1911, and present the following report:—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying State note tax, and providing for
Australian Commonwealth land tax and State Government land and income taxes and bad and doubtful
debts, as well as granting to the Officers a special bonus on their salaries, amounts to . . £155,659 19 0
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:—
To payment of a Dividend for the half-year at
cent, per annum . .
~ To Transfer to Reserve Fund
~ Balance being undivided Profit
the rate of 10 per
£75,000 0 0
40,000 0 0
40,659 19 0
£155,659 19 0
This Meeting is called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement, in terms of the Articles
of Association, of the Honorable H. E. Kater, M.L.C., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the
requisite notice that he is a candidate for the office. It also rests with the meeting to appoint Auditors
for the ensuing year.
During the half-year Branches have been established at Aberdeen, Boree Creek, Humula, Manildra, and
Tumbarumba, in this State.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
DR.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS
(INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO JUNE 30, BY CABLE.)
CR.
Capital ..£1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
To Capital
Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund 1,420,000 0 0
~ Notes in circulation . .
~ Bills in circulation . .
~ Deposits and other liabilities
~ Profit and Loss Account
£2,920,000 0 0
317,521 0 0
1,053,477 12 9
20,090,108 1 3
155,659 19 0
£24,536,826 13 0
By Co i n and
bullion in
hand ..£5,216,788 111
„ Cash at
bankers 98,009 12 S
~ Australian
Commonwealth
Notes (Legal
Tender) 405,062 0 0
„ Queensland
Government
Notes .. 6,350 0 0
~ Mon e y at
short call
in London 1,010,375 0 0
~ British Con-
so 1 s and
Government
and Muni-
cipal Se-
curities . 2,841,175 0 0
~ Bills receiv-
able in
London and
Remittances
in transit 1,854,813 17 6
~ Not e s and
Bills of
other Banks 106,513 5 5
£ 11,539,086 17
~ Bills discounted, and all debts
due to the Bank . . • . 12,485,626 15
~ Bank premises, furniture, etc. 512,113 0
6
6
0
£24,536,826 13 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Dividend Account for payment'
of a Dividend for past half-
year, at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum .. .. £75,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund . . .. .. 40,000 0 0
„ Balance of undivided profit
caried to next half-year .. 40,659 19 0
£155,659 19 0
By Amount undivided from last
half-year
Profit for half-year ended June
30, 1911 ..
.. £37,565 7 2
.. 118,094 11 10
£155,659 19 0
RESERVE FUND.
1911 —June ’3O .. .. .. ..£1,420,000 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 40,000 0
0
0
-£1,460,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
W. R. SAYERS, Accountant.
Sydney, July 12, 1911.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin in the
Head Office of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of
the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
E. S. CAPE,
F. W. HIXSON,
Auditors.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously:—
“That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated
among the Proprietors.”
“That the Honorable H. E. Kater, M.L.C., be re-elected a Director of the Bank.”
“That F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq., be appointed Auditors for the ensuing year.”
“That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of
the Bank for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Mr. G. J. Cohen, said :
I have pleasure in stating that the business of the Bank still shows satisfactory progress, and the
Balance Sheet presented to you to-day is a strong one.
In making the usual comparison with the items in the Balance Sheet of twelve months ago, it is seen
that the total figures have increased by £1,826,000.
On the debit side there is an addition of £BO,OOO to the Reserve Funds, which now exceed £1,500,000.
Bills in circulation are larger by £229,000, and the Deposit and other Liabilities have increased by
£1,769,000.
On the credit side there is an addition of £358,000 to the Coin and Bullion. The new item, Austra-
lian Commonwealth Notes, accounts for £405,000. Additional investments in Government securities repre-
sent £361,000
Bills Receivable in London, etc., and Notes and Bills of other Banks are larger by £160,000
Bills Discounted and all debts due to the Bank have increased by £1,131,000
The total of the Liquid Assets, £11,539,000, is £668,000 higher, and represents about 54 per cent,
of our Total Liabilities to the public.
The Board has granted a Special Bonus to the Staff, which they consider is well deserved.
The expanding business of the Bank has necessitated increased expenditure for buildings and sites, but
the Capital Cost is being steadily written down.
On the Ist instant we ceased to issue our own notes, which have been in circulation for nearly 77 years,
and you will notice we have been redeeming them, the total having diminished £314,000 since December
last, and we anticipate a further reduction of at least £250,000 before the end of this year.
The adoption of a Government Note in place of a Bank Note circulation is necessitating on the part of
th : s Bank the retirement of its own notes, of which there were in the hands of the public on December 31
last . .. . . .. .. .. . . .. . . . . . . £631,000
Payment to the Commonwealth for their notes to replace our own, say .. . .
Payment for Commonwealth Notes for till money, say .. •• •• £500,000
A total demand on our coin holding of .. •• ..£1,762,000
Against this we shall hold the £500,000 in our tills, and we shall be relieved of the liability in respect
of our own notes.
The charge has not, however, so far greatly affected our holding of Gold. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment having lent to various States a large proportion of the Funds derived from the sale of Australian
Notes, the Gold automatically flows back to the coffers of the Banks to the extent of the local State
Government expenditure.
It may interest the Shareholders to know that for the five years to December 31 last, the mutilated
notes of this Bank destroyed have averaged £241,000 per annum. Our Circulation has been about one-
seventh of that of all the Banks of the Commonwealth, so that an annual provision ot note forms of the face
value approximately of £1,689,000 is required to replace the mutilated Notes of the Commonwealth which
will have to be destroyed. . . , .
T now move that the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and circulated among
the Proprietors. . .. ■ .
THE ART AND ETIQUETTE OF COURTSHIP
Courtship Made Easy, How to
know that you are really in
Love, How to Court a Bashful
Girl, How to Woo an Heiress,
How to Woo a Widow, How to
make a Bachelor Propose, How
to Pop the Question, Etiquette
before and after Engagement,
Wedding Etiquette. These are
only a few of the chapters of
this interesting book. Price
Eight Perce, posted. UNION
CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
fgh
fjg
PRACTICAL HYPNOTISM
Mesmeric Theories and Biological Practices, by Comte
de Saint Germain, with 30 Illustrations. By means
ol this remarkable Book anyone may become a
skilled hvpnotist and exercise this strange in-
fluence over others. The 6rst chapter explains
how everybody may hypnotise, the second
describes the method of hypnotism, and so on
through 264 pages, concluding with an expo-
sition of curing diseases by hypnotic influence.
Mailed anywhere for 2/3, or with Hypnotic Disc, a/s.
The Onions Co., 299 Elisabeth Street, Melbourne.
jh
T2I NAUNTON MUSIC BOOK
full of good tunes that anyone can play
on the Piano or Organ wtth BOTH HANDS at the very first
try without any knowledge
of music. No trouble, no
difficulty. There has not
been one failure. You begin
L>ght fiff P-kxing Tunes,
__ __ Everybody delighted. Why
pay Guineas for Wesson* when this Large Book for 45/3
teaches you everything. No teacher needed. Obtainable onl>
from THE UNION CO. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
*)nly 5/3
we pay postac
moHE CRAMPS OR COLD FEET
Electric Insoles Keep the Feet Warm, pro-
mote circulation, relieve nervous troubles, dispel
rheumatic pains, prevent Cramps, overcome
sleeplessness, and ward off colds and chills Fit
comfortably into any boots or ! shoes. Alternate
plates of copper and zinc generate a mild form of
electric energy and warm the feet by increasing the
emulation. Warm feet mean no doctor’s bills.
Try a pair; you will be pleased. Delivered anywhere
lor 3/8 per pair. State size of boot when ordering.
The flnion Co.. *99 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
gjh
j
GENIUS IN
LIGHTING.
Brandt’s Atmoslite air-
pas machine is made by
skilled engineers—men
whose genius enables
them to produce an air-
gas machine that is un-
equalled. The Atmoslite
is simple, automatic,
ready for instant use,
and maintains light at an
even pressure. It pays
to buy the best. Investi-
gate—write for catalogue
to-day.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.,
LAMPHOUSE.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St, Melbourne
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
09
<i|
0K
—■rT
FIDELITAS
c.s
4RIS-X*
5 -Li:*
iit&i'-'jgPlWw'llh 'isSS’/C
M
m
n
F.Wolff&Sohn
Karlsruhe
Baden
rWBBW!!
.mJSisI
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
EHmHH
DIUIR-EHTIC
KIDNEY & DMDDEK'
REMEDY
A COBBECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
fSS
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TONIC
ObramAt>/e &// Chemists
■CLARTON, HODGSON
Sole Australasian Agents. 73 YORK ST.SYDNEY
for YOUR BOOTS & SHOES.
MELfONIAN
PASTE
In Black
or Brown.
“The World’s Boot Polish.”
PASft
2S
M/KDI SY
t.BROWN ISON
At tHftA MtLTRNIAtt tIACIUNC nA*yrACT*RY
r CARRICK ST LONDON. W.C i
*A*»S.2**V* •C.RCEAC.
B
The best and also the cheapesk Paste Polish on
the market for cleaning, polisbint and pr«-
.ervint all kinds of Leather BooU. Shoes, etc.
SOLD EVERYWHERE;
£ BROWN Sc SON, Ltd . LONDON, Enr


1
Fashionable
Favorite - Perfume
fr
F.wOLFFAoOHN
illlmiil
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.
BOTOIL
t
Tickles the Palate
< glCiiWW n ”
BIRDS
CUSTARD
• Ha Original
anly Cmulrr
© ©
■ S'
The World’s Daily Delicacy
From 1837 to 1911—
Birds
Custard
Crowns every meat with enjoyment.
Children revel in it; you do
right to indulge their 1 king for
this creamy wholesome dainty,
with its rich stoi e of nutriment.
W Insist on BIRD’S Custard.
No substitute can be so pure or
so wholesome.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results Use Best
" PERNIX .»* CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it
can be obatined from
AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
2/6 Jars, obtainable everywhere
Nurses Recommend
Solomon
Solution
Experience has taught them its wonderful
efficacy in the treatment of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Sprains
Swellings, Wounds, Cuts, Boils, Burns, and
many other common ailmentsl Will YOU try it?
Post Free 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne. \
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
ACK
CSEMIOB)
Built to Beat the Band
The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are Tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth ° r s ans
£»T- MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds . . . 1/-
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents
- ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
HOW A HYPNOTIST
MADE A FORTUNE.
The Secret Methods by which Dr. X. La Motte Sage,
the Greatest Hypnotic Scientist of the Age,
Created a Tremendous Sensation.
He Firmly Believes Hypnotism a Public Benefit,
Has Donated £5OOO Toward the Free Distribu-
tion of a Handsomely Illustrated Book con-
taining His Views and Suggestions on
How to Acquire this Mysterious
Power and Use it in Business, in
Society, and in the Home.
While the Special Edition Lasts a Copy of This
Remarkable Book Will be Sent Free to
Any Interested Person.
Dr. X. La Motte Sage made a fortune
out of Hypnotism. He probably knows
more about the subject than any living
man. His methods are radically different
from any ever before presented. By his
new system he hypnotises people instan-
taneously. He tells you how to exert
tremendous silent influence without making
a gesture or saying a single word. He gives
the only real, practical methods for the
development of the power of Personal
Magnetism that have ever been published.
During all the time that Dr. Sage was be-
fore the public he made it his business to
note carefully the effect of hypnotism upon
the human mind. He became convinced
that this mighty mysterious power could be
utilised to the advantage of ambitious men
and women who wished to better their con-
dition in life. To demonstrate the correct-
ness of his ideas, when he retired from pub-
lic life he founded a college where Hypno-
tism, Personal Magnetism, Magnetic Heal-
ing, etc., might be taught along the de-
finite lines he had laid down. The result is
that the college has grown to be the largest
of its kind in the world. Thousands of suc-
cessful students in all parts of the globe
are living witnesses to the wonderful power
and the great practical benefits to be derived
from Dr. Sage’s methods. The Doctor has
recently written a book entitled “The Phil-
osophy of Personal Influence,” in which he
tells in plain, simple language just how to
acquire hypnotic power and the various
uses to which it may be put. Among the
many interesting things upon which the
book treats are: How to develop magnetic
power and influence people without their
knowledge; how to cure bad habits and ob-
stinate chronic diseases when medicine and
everything else in this line fails; how to im-
plant a command in a subject’s mind that
he will carry out in every detail a month or
a year hence, whether the hypnotist is pre-
sent or not; how to hypnotise people at a
distance; its value in business; marvellous
scientific tests how to prevent people from
influencing you; hypnotic power more fas-
cinating than beauty; the use of hypnotism
in the development of the mental faculties;
controlling children, removing domestic-
troubles, etc.
The college which Dr. Sage has founded
proposes to give away £5OOO worth of the
above books absolutely free so long as the
special edition lasts. Any person who is in
earnest can get a copy merely by writing
for it. This book is handsomely illustrated
by the finest hair-tone engravings. It tells
you how the marvellous power of hypno-
tism has been used to cast a secret mystic
spell over people without their knowledge,
and how they have been for months, and in
some cases even years, obeying the royal
will of another. It gives you the secret of
the development of what Senator Chauncey
M. Depew calls the money-making microbe.
Don’t think because you lack a fine educa-
tion and are working for a small salary that
you cannot better your condition; do not
think because you are now successful in
life that you cannot be more successful. Dr.
Sage’s book has been read, and his methods
are to-day being used by many of the richest
men in the world. They know the value of
personal influence, or hypnotic power. If you
are interested, address a Id. postcard to-
day to the New York Institute of Science,
Dept. 22M., Rochester, New York, U.S.A.,
and a copy of Dr. Sage’s book will be sent
you by return mail absolutely free. This
is a rare opportunity to learn the uses and
possibilities of the most wonderful, marvel-
lous and mysterious power known to man.
The book is enthusiastically endorsed by the
most prominent business men, ministers of
the Gospel, lawyers and doctors. Tt should
be in every home; it should be read by all
men and women in this country who want
to better their condition in life, who want
to achieve greater financial success, win
friends, gratify their ambitions, and get out
of life the pleasure and happiness which
the Creator intended they should enjoy.
Macmillan’s
New Shilling
Library.
SOUTH SEA BUBBLES. By the Earl and
the Doctor.
THE INTELLECTUAL LIFE. By Philip Gil-
bert Plamerton.
LETTERS FROM HELL. Given in English by
J. S. With a Preface by Dr. George Mac-
donald.
A POOR MAN’S HOUSE. By Stephen Rey-
nolds.
LEAVES FROM THE NOTE-BOOKS OF LADY
DOROTHY NEVILL. Edited by Ralph
Nevill.
H.M.I. Some Passages in the Life of one of
lI.M. Inspectors of Schools. By E M
Sneyd-Kynnersley.
TALES OF OLD JAPAN. By A. B. Freeman-
Mitford (Lord Redesdale). Illustrated.
AT LAST: A Christmas in the West Indies. By
Charles Kingsley. Illustrated.
THE RELIEF OF CHITRAL. By Colonel
G. J. Younghusband and Sir Francis
Younghusband. Illustrated.
BARRACKS, BIVOUACS AND BATTLES. By
Archibald Forbes. Sy
REMINISCENCES OF THE GREAT MUTINY.
By William Forbes-MitcheLl. 'V
CAWNPORE. By the Right Hon. Sir G. O.
Trevelyan, Bart.
NORTH ITALIAN FOLK. Sketches of Town
and Country Life. By Mrs. Comyns Carr.
Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott.
ALCOHOL AND THE HUMAN BODY. An In-
troduction to the Study of the Subject, and
a Contribution to National Health. By Sir
Victor Horsley, F.R.S., and Mary D.
Stdrge, M.D. With a Chapter by Arthur
Newsholme, M.D.
*Send for Complete List of Popular Is.
Books (about 150 vols.).
THE CAMBRIDGE NATURAL HISTORY.
Edited by S. F. llarmer, Sc.D., F.R.S , and
A. E. Shipley, M.A., F.R.S. In ten vol-
umes. Fully Illustrated, Medium Bvo, Lib-
rary Binding. Sold in Sets Only. Half
Morocco, Gilt Top. £8 Bs. net.
Completion of the New Edition.
A SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. By Many Writers.
A New Edition. Edited by Sir Clifford
Allbutt, K.C.8., M.D., and H. D. Rolles-
ton, M.D.
Vol. IX. (concluding the work). DISEASES
OF THE SKIN. Bvo. 255. net.
Previously published Vols. 1.-VIII.
*Prospectus post free on application.
A MAP OF THE WORLD ON MERCATOR’S
PROJECTION. Specially designed for Aus-
tralasian schools, showing AUSTRALIA as
the centre of the universe. Size, 50in. x
42in. Mounted on cloth. Rollers and var-
nished, 12s.
ATLAS FOR AUSTRALASIAN SCHOOLS, Phy-
sical and political. Size, 12in. x lOin.; 86
maps. Is. 6d.
Macmillan’s
Colonial Library
of Copyright Books.
Issued In Paper Covers and in Cloth Boards.
FORTHCOMING VOLS.
595. THE SONG OF RENNY. By Maurice
Hewlett.
599. A MARRIAGE. By H. G. Wells.
597. THE GREATEST OF THESE. By Wins-
ton Churchill, Author of A Modern Chron-
icle, Coniston, etc.
596. ETHAN FROME. By Edith Wharton,
Author of The House of Mirth, etc.
594. THE LOST IPIIIGENIA. By Agnes and
Egerton Castle.
598. THE SECRET GARDEN. By E. Nesbit,
Author of TIIE Magic City, etc.
600. JOHN TEMPLE: Merchant, Adventurer,
Convict and Conquistador. By Ralph
Durand.
RECENT VOLS.
591. MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY. A Story
of the Western Plains. By Owen Wister,
Author of The Virginian, Lady Baltimore,
etc.
592. THE UNKNOWN GOD. By Putnam
Weale, Author of The Human Cobweb, etc.
589. NINA. By Rosaline Masson.
590. TREVOR LORDSHIP. A Love Story.
By Mrs. Hubert Barclay.
593. THE LEGACY. A Story of a Woman.
Bv Mary S. Watts, Author of Nathan Burke,
etc.
588. JIM HANDS. A Story of Amercan Fac-
tory Life. By Richard C. Child.
Complete List sent Po3t Free on application.
To be obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


NURSE TELLS OF
CURES BKUTICURA
Soap and Ointment in Past 20 Years.
Always Recommends Them.
“I have seen the Cuticura Remedies used
with best results during the past twenty-
years. In my work as a nurse, many skin
disease cases came under my observation,
and in every instance, 1 always recommended
the Cuticura Remedies as they always gave
entire satisfaction. One case in particular
was that of a lady friend of mine who, when
a child, was afflicted with eczema which cov-
ered her face and hands entirely, breaking
out at intervals with severer torture. She
could not go to school as the disfigurement
looked terrible. 1 told her to get at once a
set of the Cuticura Remedies. After the use
of only one set she was perfectly well.
“A grown lady friend was afflicted with
salt rheum in one of her thumbs, and she
was cured by the Cuticura Remedies. Still
another lady had dry salt rheum in both
palms of her hands every fall of the year.
They used to be so painful she could scarcely
wet her hands until she began to use the
Cuticura Remedies which cured her. I have
also seen them cure children of ringworm.
The children’s faces would be all circles and
rings around the cheeks, and the neck, and
after treatment with the Cuticura Soap
and Ointment, they were completely cured.
My husband had rheumatism on his arm
and 1 used the Cuticura Ointment. It made
his arm as limber and nice, whereas it was
quite stiff before 1 began to apply the
Ointment.
“Last May I had an ingrowing toe nail
which was very painful, as the side of the
nail was edging right down in the side of my
toe. I cut the nail out of the cavity it made,
and of course applied the Cuticura Ointment
to the part affected. It soothed it and in
less than ten nights it was all healed through
constant use of the Ointment. Ten days
ago, I had my left hand and wrist burned
with boiling lard, and Cuticura Ointment
has completely cured them. 1 have just
recommended the Cuticura Remedies to an-
other friend, and she is pleased with the
results and is recovering nicely. 1 will gladly
furnish the names of the people referred to
above if anybody doubts what I say.”
(Signed) Mrs. Margaret Hederson, 77 High-
land Ave., Malden, Mass., U. S. A., Oct. 1. ’iO.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the
world. Send to R. Towns & Co.. Sydney,
N. S. W., for free booklet on skin and scalp
and liberal sample of Cuticura Ointment.
9
Her Youtfc
/A
cKK
LENS
, (U.5.A)
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
A FAMOUS DOCTOR.
testifies to the £2: A. Y
value of C 3 *rk JTI V/ L/
as a successful treatment of Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica, and kindred complaints.
Professor Dr. William Turk (University Lecturer
and Imperial Chief Physician, Vienna) says: : —
“SAMOL. I have used Samol in my hospital in
various ailments. The ointment has been invariably
used on patients without the slightest irritation to
the skin, and brought about excellent results, par-
ticularly in cases of severe myalgia (muscular rheu-
matism).”
No remedy sold to the public has received such
recognition from the scientific world.
Samol is sold in tubes, price Is. 6d., 3s. 9d., and
65., and can be ordered through chemists or obtained
direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A. Goddard,
96a Eagle Street, Brisbane; or 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney. [l.
Pr. E. <a. LE&ER ERSON
formerly hon. physician Auckland and Broken Hill
general hospitals.
Also of Collins Street, Melbourne ; Macquarie Street,
Sydney ; and Hay Street, Perth,
Has Resumed Practice at 30 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Consultation Hours—
-11.30 to. 12.30, 6.45 to 7.45 p.m.
Tel. 453.
SPECIALTY 606
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” tor Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
e
%
.CP
//r 4CTURIN c
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.'
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
Allcocks
Pains in the Back
Allcock’s Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Plasters
The World? s Greatest
External Remedy.
Allcock's Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
For over 60 years it has been the standard remedy for
all aches and pains. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
take a Brandrettis Pill
Purely Vegetable,
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
Note that
POT POURRI
is the Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art. ob m D a,l BY
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes.— The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io;
41 6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars.—A fragrant smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/« ; 18/6 per 100.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco. — 4OZ. tins, 2/= ; Boz. tins, 4/= ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this —it is the BEST.
“ POT POURRI ” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 576 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sx
UNDER
VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELtS
balsam:
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
and Chemists,
ftXISAM CFiff.
' < "«ADE
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne .
7
*
One of the most
valuable foods known to
the Medical Profession. —“The
Lancet ” describes it as “ Mr. Benger s
admirable preparation.
Benger’s Food is distinguished from the others by
the ease with which it can be digested and absorbed.
Benger’s Food is for Infants and Invalids,
and all whose digestive powers have become weakened
through illness or advancing age.
BENGER'S FOOD LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Wengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
824
The Inky Way.
Westralian Worker, hitherto a goldfields weekly,
has at last definitely arranged to turn itself into a
daily; and it hopes to be ready for battle during the
coming W.A. election campaign. The co. is not over-
burdened with money, but there’s heaps of enthusiasm
in the “Yes, Yes” State, and editor Bodely is a
glutton for hard work.
* * * *
A Groperland pressman was sent to do a church
meeting. As he entered the hall they were intoning
the old familiar yearn :
“Oh, for a thousand tongues to sing!”
The scribe was a statistical fiend, and the report of
the show appeared under the heading: “Wanted —
999 Tongues.”
* * * *
“Chris”: The most scornful thing I ever heard
about our star in the Inky Way floated into my ear
the other morning. “Buy a Dingo Watchman, sir?”
asked the boy. “Buy a Dingo Watchman, is it?”
said the half-beered. “No, I won’t. I’d rather buy
a tin of sardines for the sixpence and read the label.
I’d get as much information and a bellyful as well.”
“Mulwa”: I came across this gem in the hut of a
boundary-rider in the Riverina. It was part of an
Obituary notice which appeared in the Farmer and
Grazier of June 10 last: “He used to say that he
had read the Sydney Morning Herald every issue
since 1841, and his faculties still remained unim-
paired enough to enable him to read it till within a
few days of his death.”
* * * *
One of the queerest sign-posts of the Inky Way
hangs beside the advertising counter in the Age
office. It is a collection of In Memoriam verses —
melancholy samples of the loving bathos annually
renewed by survivors. The reason why the dreadful
lamentations are kept hanging on a hook is that they
are copyright, and the advt. clerk at the counter
must see that no tearful advertiser pirates the wails
of which other mourners have bought the lugubrious
monopoly.
* * * *
William Arnold, for 50 years a proof-reader on
one or other of the Adelaide dailies, was the subject
of a humorous paragraph in the Register on a re-
cent Monday, because a stout piece of firewood, with
powder somewhere in it, had exploded and shot out
of his hearth on the Sunday evening. Two days
later he was the object of a serious paragraph,
having been knocked over and fatally injured by a
motor-car.
T. H. S. Escott is publishing a book on news-
papers, from the earliest period down to the present
day, to be issued by Fisher Unwin. Escott, who has
had a deal of journalistic experience, has succeeded
John Morley as editor of the Fortnightly. Years
ago he also succeeded George Augusta Sala as editor
of the Home News, a paper that had a big Aus-
tralian goldfields circulation in the early ’6o’s. The
success of the News bred half a dozen imitators;
but the cable killed them all.
* * * *
“Bookware”: Professors Rentoul and Tucker, in
Melbourne, continue to make sly, underhand digs at
Australian poetry. They haven’t even Touchstone’s
virtue —“A poor thing, sir, but mine own.” Ren-
toul says Austral poets are to arise. In Shakspeare’s
time, Greene, who called him Shakseene, said a
dramatist was to arise. The decriers of Wagner said
a composer was to arise. Croker, writing down
Dickens in the Quarterly, said a novelist was to.
arise. Outside a pub in my district there is a per-
manent board, inscribed “Free Drinks To-morrow.”
Nay, even in the time of the Highest, did not the
scribes say the Messiah was to come?
* * * *
“Condot”: In “A Note from the Gallery”- (B.
6/7/’ll) the writer mentions that a member of the
N.S.W. Assembly on one occasion threatened to
“pull his windpipe out.” I don’t think that even
N.S.W. ever had a member so ferocious as a Banana-
land legislator who flourished in the ’9o’s. It was
owing to the extreme intemperance of his oratory
that I was instructed to report him verbatim, put-
ting in blanks where the paper would otherwise be
blistered. This made him more ferocious than ever,
and on several occasions he yelled at me from the
floor of the House that I was going to be killed pre-
sently. One night he went stark mad, and sought
me with a hammer. He was a large man and a
blacksmith, and I am under sft. I wasn’t there
when he called at the pressroom. He died shortly
afterwards, but I didn’t do it.
* * * *
“Left Hand”: W. J. Sowden, of the S. A.
Register, complains that Australian poetry is too
drab, has no dramatic power, no humor and
no pathos. Presumably, to remedy these de-
fects, and in particular to make the writers
gay, Sowden runs a column for aspiring poets
in the Saturday Register, and if you woo the
muse you are allowed the barren honor of seeing
your woo in the Tory journal. Naturally, on these
terms he gets dramatic things like this:
MAKING BILLY TEA.
Ah! the dear black thing is boiling—pop in sugar
and the tea;
Stir that round, and from a bottle pour in milk
accordingly.
If you haven’t teaspoons handy, take one of the
cleanest sticks,
For it really doesn’t matter when the milk and
sugar’s mixed.
After that gem of his own choosing, what has Sowden
to complain about ?
* * * *
“Reka”: I was up at Waikaretemarama last week,
and called at the local newspaper office for a copy
of its latest issue. The proprietor, who wore blue
dungaPbes and a green flannel shirt, handed me the
sheet, and said confidentially: “See here, the girl
lost the box of s’s the other day, and we’ve had to
use o’s instead. It looks a bit queer at first, but
you soon get used to it.” The first item to puzzle
me was, “Septimuo Smith, who wao arreoted laot
Saturday, wao found to have oeveral opuriouo coino
in hio poooeooion.” I puzzled that out, and was
confronted with: “The Shakopeare feotival wao
otarted at Stratford-on-Avon yeoterday, oixty-oix
flago being unfurled. Seventeen of Shakopeare’o
playo will be preoented.” When I found something
about “An actreoo’o oucceoo,” I took the sheet to
the office and requested my money back, on the
ground that the rag was printed in a foreign lan-
guage. The proprietor seemed hurt, but gave me
the thruppence. By the way, the paper printed a
warning of its peculiarity that week; but as they
had no “s’s,” they could only hint darkly at the
disappearance of “a certain letter,” which had to be
nameless.
THE UNKIND CUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Victorian Premier’s office has received an inti-
mation that King George has made a rule not to ac-
cept any composition in MS., neither will he accept
the dedication of any work unless the writer is
known to him. Randolph Bedford is expected to feel
very annoyed over this.— Bulletin (6/7/’ll).
Bedford ? A rank disloyalist 1
This hits him not.
It is not meant for him, I wist;
Tis I am shot.
Bedford ! That wild Republican ?
Said George to me:
“Hassan, old chap, Randolph’s a man
/ will not see!”
O God ! Th’ ingratitude of Kings!
When George was here,
Who took him round and showed him things ?
Who stood him beer?
I told him of my little work
On “Harems” ; he
Said, “Dedicate it, obscene Turk,
To none but me.”
But, now he’s got a steady job,
His pal’s forgot.
This isn’t one for Bedford’s nob ;
’Tis / am shot.
VICTORIA.
HASSAN.


FOR
David Braham 8 Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.
THROW AWAY YOUR PIPE
AND
SMOKE MY CIGARS
<2IA/Y\,
I'VE knocked around a bit over Australasia in
my time—been in the back parts of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I’ve mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Monaro- in the jarrah forests cf
Westralia; in mining camps, all over the Com-
monwealth ; and everywhere I ve seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar,
Then, I’ve pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after all this,
people say to me —“ Oh, Australians won’t smoke
Cigars 1”
nin\
mi
it n
m
I do just get riled when I
hear this. I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of my
DIADEMAS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow!
There’s nothing but To-
bacco in them—and the best
Cigar Tobacco that is grown
—the wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
all clean, straight, long Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I’ve
given them to, as I said, just
swear by my Cigars. Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
—men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit—come
to me and say—“ Look here,
those Cigars of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city. Let us have a
box as a favor."
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at my ex-
pense.
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
Cigars. All I want is for you
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco—and I know you'll be
a regular customer of mine.
I'll post a box of ioo DIADEMAS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6of them,
and if they're not as good as the best 6d. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I’ll return every penny of your money. I'll
make no deduction for the Cigars you’ve smoked
There’s no funny business about this offer,
mind. I’ll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If you want to know the kind of man
you’re dealing with, write to the General
Manager, tbe Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I’m a clean, straight chap in all
my dealings.
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
the first test
g
of a PLUM RAZOR will prove its work. It is miles away
a different and better razor to the ordinary. Will give you
a cool, comfortable shave every day of the year. The secret
of its splendid success is the steel. We guarantee and keep
it in order two years free of charge.
The Plum Razor,
10/6
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Send for our Free
Illustrated Price
List.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache. Worn at night.
No. 1, 2/6 ; No. 2, 3/6 ; No. 3, 6/6. Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Year s .
h
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
CLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This stjie of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
M
MORRIS'S
ree Witches
cimrOTCS
m
10
or for
tonnes
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ks per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
A>-
A
AA
m
3e~
v - H
,jk
0? ' ** t
C.
ETN
K
l 5?
5? >
I
S«
- 1
*- 4&:4
?
WhJ^fj
I iff'/.
'/A
&
A?
y '/
■A.
' A
\ V,
\A
m
s'
\L
f
1
VE
?,vr .i
• s
l- ? ,3i 'AA}
m
m
*/
A, S
9 A
aa/. .
i
%
w.
&5#Y/,
Ak
*
"s, *
Tyres
in the Making.
I.—Collecting the Rubber.
South America, Ceylon, Africa, Straits
Settlements, Sumatra each yields
rubber of various qualities, all of which
entail the closest investigation on the
part of the tyre manufacturer if he is
to secure the most reliable material
for his purpose. It is the quality of
the rubber itself that matters.
13
STOCKISTS:
All the heading' Agents.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw
SALOON accommodation, amidships,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
EON DON £l6, £lB and £BO.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £IS 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St
M ki.hO'JKnk Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
ill William-street.
Adki.aidk & Frf.manti.k Agknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAN D.
12,130 Regd. Tons.
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
6,814
13,000
•aphv. New and luxurious
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw
OSTERLEV
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMRAH
OPTIIR
ORAMA (Bu
uilding)
Fitted with Wireless Telegra,,...,. iUAII( , UU i9
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-fuxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads: Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms •
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing- every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pdack, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
™ e Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700.000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
_ Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Qeiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Hanking business!
THE
Australian Sank of (Jommerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2 000 000
SUBSCRIBED £1’,197)127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145)933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
Gkorgk J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, arid all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The.y.
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,494 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,09L669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., MLC •
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 7 £<o6 ' lil 0 0
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping'.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with 44 Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—•
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEVVEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne ;
H. MIJECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
THE BULLETIN POST CAROS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
t New Steamer.
FARRS— Saloon. 3rd Glass.
London .. .. From £‘s7 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Gape or Durban .. From £3l 10s., £T3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THK WORLD Tickets from £126 !os.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hisrhest standsrd.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, <fec., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Asrents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
jgh
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRICf 12,000 tons, to sail about-
August 2.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
August 30.
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling- Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARRS —Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £34 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 35 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on T)av of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
OEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
jQ io upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
j
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO
repayable by instalments extending over 30 year
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fiuorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,000 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds or Certificated C.P's.
and Associated 0.1/s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Rigllt to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post
Crown Lands Agents and at the Head Office. MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Office Agency, or from
J. 11. Davies. Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
4®^
£2,913,820
£1,950,000
£2,913,820
£7,7 77,640
DIRECTORS
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Kormand MacLaurih, lit., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. : William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
„ r Heacl Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Panua (New South Wales 165, Victoria 38,
. Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 57, Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua 2
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. BUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 0
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Georoe J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Hangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES : Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
‘ COAG-ULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE
■Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Eire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE-GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors;
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.0.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ur.e, Esq.
General Manager: .J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary :
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: Victoria:
Metropolitan Buildings, 48 Queen St.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane. Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(MM (TED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE Co arid from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports#
FOR .MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PTRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kootnbana. August 1
(To Fremantle direct,
thence to all North-
west Ports, without
transhipment).
S.S. Pilharra, Aug. 5.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
5.5. July 29(fUteil
Wireless Telegraphy).
5.5. VVollowra, Any. 5.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfieltls.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LIIME.
THIS ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Manas inti Agents, 259 George-streec, Sydney.
F. H. A.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET,”
11,400 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 29th July
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ 2nd Aug.
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE ~ sth Aug.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES.. .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated hooks, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd'., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP ’ £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £40,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman :
John Grice, Esq... Vice-Chairman ; Hon J. M. Pratt : J. 11.
MacFarland, Esa., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC,
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
THE Australian thinks in Continents,because
he is the only man who has a Continent;
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.


KODAK Photography
is the Most Delight-
ful of all Pastimes.
The kodak is the most widely used of Cameras, because it
serves for use at home or abroad, is the best and simplest in
use, and is operated in daylight all the way.
The Kodak Camera serves for utility, pleasure, exercise and
health. It is high-grade in appearance, faultless in construction,
efficient in equipment, perfect in use, right in price. It is equally as
satisfactory for the beginner in photography as for the expert.
For your protection, you should ask for the Kodak Camera by
name, and LOOK FOR THE WORD “EASTMAN” on the
instrument you purchase. “IF IT ISN’T AN EASTMAN, IT
ISN’T A KODAK.”
1 here are Brownie Kodaks, from 5/- to 50/- • regular Kodaks
range from 26/- upwards. The Kodak Catalogue will be sent free
upon request if you cannot call.
The No. 3a Folding
Pocßet Kodak, 90/-
1 he No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak is the recognised best of all folding
hand cameras. Its popularity is world-wide. Takes the full-size post-
card picture, 3^in. x Works in daylight all the way.
Provided with every feature for the most serious work, yet so simple
as to be effectively handled by a novice.
Equipment includes double rapid rectilinear lens, Kodak auto-
matic shutter, automatic focussing lock, brilliant reversible finder and
tripod sockets. Price, £.4 lOs. Postage extra, 1/3.
See that your Camera
is loaded with Kastman
KODAK. N. C. FILM.
ONLY KODAK N.C. FILM will give you the greatest possible success that
your equipment will allow. The latitude, the rendering of light, shade and
tonal values, the speed, the non-curling and non-halation properties —all
of these and many other features of superiority in Kodak N.C. Film are not to be
secured in equal degree in any film which is said to be “ just-as-good.”
Look to it, if you hand over your Kodak for loading in a strange store, that no
inferior substitute film is inserted. The quality of your pictures is at stake. Experiment
with no experiments. Look for “ Kodak ”on the spool-end, and “N.C.” on the box.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St.. Sydney. “ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
qA
wm.i
■s
9
Fine New Diamond
and
Platinum Jewellery
at the Treasure House.
No. i— Choice Diamond Set Necklet. Set with Finest
Quality White Diamonds in Real Platinum, with Fine
Platinum Trace Pattern Chain. £55.
No. 2 — Exquisite Diamond Set Brooch. Set with
Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum. £45.
No. 3— Beautiful Diamond Set Necklet. Set with Finest
Quality Brilliant Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum.
£42.
No. 4 — Handsome Diamond Set Flexible Bangle. Set
with ii Fine Quality White Diamonds in Real
Platinum, and Isct. Gold. £75.
No. 5 — Exquisite Diamond Set Heart Pendant. Set
with Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Isct.
Gold. £3O.
No. 6 — Dainty Diamond Set Earrings. Set with 6 Fine
Quality Brilliant Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum and
Isct. Gold. £l7/10/=
No. 7 — Elegant Diamond and Pearl Earrings. Set with
Fine White Diamonds and Whole White Pearls.
£lO/10/=
No. B— A Unique Diamond Set Crossover Ring. Set
with 9 Fine White Diamonds in Real Platinum and
iBct. Gold. £2l.
No. 9 — Quaintly Designed Diamond Set Necklet. Set
with Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum, with Fine Trace Pattern Platinum Chain.
£5O.
No. io— Very Effective Diamond Set Ring. Set with
Fine Quality Diamonds in Real Platinum and iBct.
Gold. £lB/10/=
Stewart Dawson
STRAND CORNER, 8 Co. (AuSt.) Ltd.
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Children Thrive
on AIVGIEK’S.
There is nothing better for delicate children than a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. Bland and pleasant,
soothing alike to throat, lungs, stomach and intestines,
an aid to appetite and digestion, and a splendid tonic and
builder, it is the ideal remedy for children's ailments, and
no mother should be without a bottle in the house. The
medical profession prescribe Angier’s Emulsion not only
for coughs, bronchitis, whooping cough and all lung
affections, but also for scrofula, rickets and all wasting
diseases. Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
“THE CHANGE IN HER IS WONDERFUL.”
8 Hampden Street, North Sydney, Aus.
Dear Sirs, —My little girl has been a constant anxiety owing to
loss of appetite and a very trying cough. I was so pleased to see
her relish her food after she had had a sample bottle of Angier’s
that I got a large (4/6) bottle, which she has just finished. The
change in her is wonderful; the cough is quite gone, she has put on
firm flesh and has a good colour and appetite. To have accomplished
this with a really palatable mixture is a great cause of thankfulness
to me and you have my full consent to publish this letter in case it
may persuade other mothers to try Angier’s Etriulsion.
(Signed) Mrs. K. WILKINS.
90
t :
y
Sliiii?,.
IlPj
JlHii
5
t
nil* •
A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage; mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Is the most wonderful remedy ever discovered for
Coughs and Colds. It will relieve you when all
others have failed. Is. Cd. and 3s.*
The
NATIONAL
EXHIBITION
Brisbane win be <?« fete in
August. The City will be
crowded with visitors. They’ll
come in in thousands to see what we
can do —and we’ll show them. And
do you know that Finney’s will be
one of the principal Show places?
That the Roof Garden Cafe will be a
feature that no other Australian city
could “ put up” ? That the beautiful,
big Showroom, with its wealth of
Millinery and Costume Models, will
delight many thousands every day?
That Finney’s will prove to anyone
who wants proof that their Prices
are the Lowest in the Land ?
Hadn’t you better come yourself?
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big'
Block,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Queensland Labor party has just ex-
pelled M.L.A. Crawford over his vote on the
Bible in State Schools Bill. He is the
23rd man cast out from the party. When
will the procession end?
Les Seary, who is likely to meet Harry
Livingstone in a shearing match next Janu-
ary, put up a pretty good performance re-
cently at Galway Downs, where he “rung”
the shed. His best tally, was 219, but he
went over 200 a score of times, and aver-
aged over 200 throughout, working 7hrs.
20min. per day.
Entomologist Tryon, lecturing on the mos-
quito. the other day, gave Bananalanders the
pleasing information that their country sup-
ported 50 varieties of the pest in ease and
comfort. Tryon strongly advocates kero-
sening, and, when asked if the process would
not spoil the water, replied that the liquid
known by that name in certain Bananaland
towns would probably be improved by the ad-
dition of petroleum.
The life of the itinerant teacher in West-
ern Bananaland is not all beer and skittles.
It isn’t even all beer. M. J. Healey, one of
them, recently sent in a report from Curra-
willa Waterfloles, near Longreach, to the
Education Department. Here is a piece of
it:—
Conditions are worse than when I visited these
parts in March last. There is no coach running
’twixt Mooraberrie and Birdsville (140 miles). At
Currawilla there is not a feed for a goat for miles
around the station. Camels are being used by the
boundary-riders. I was strongly recommended not
to attempt the journey, owing" to waterless and
grassless stages ’twixt Beetoota and Diamantina
River. Camels and pack-horses convey mails only
from Mooraberrie to Birdsville. I could not get a
camel for the journey. The few horses required at
Currawilla are being fed on hay. I could not pur-
chase any, and turned my tired, hungry and thirsty
horses S.E. towards Mornie. At the only waterhole
for 10 miles, I stopped to give them a drink. I
unyoked, and the boy was leading the two when they
got a sniff of camels that were feeding at a bush,
and which I had not seen. The horses bolted with
the harness on. One dived into the waterhole, and
clambered out on the opposite bank ; the other van-
ished over a sandhill.
“Drought” headlines haven’t got into the
papers yet; but the state of the country in
the sou’-west of the State ought to be a
healthy reminder to plunging politicians
that the Devil hasn’t gone out of business.
It looks as though the usual political
swindle is being worked in Bananaland.
Hugh Nelson, knowing that the State was
always liable to have to either go into debt
or" borrow, in order to tide over bad seasons,
put a Bill through, providing that the sur-
pluses in good years should go towards re-
ducing the debt. It worked all right for a
while ; then Ividston collared the threatened
surplus of a good year, and ear-marked it
for some special expenditure. Thus he
practically wiped the surplus out, so that
the debt wasn’t reduced anything worth talk-
ing about. Now, it seems, the same game
has been played by Dig. Denham this year,
the surplus available for debt reduction be-
ing sweated down to a mere thousand or
two.
Harris, P.M., remarked at the Brisbane
City Police Court a few days ago, concern-
ing a case in which a married couple taking
a position on a station were compelled to
leave a child in the city: “A pity that sta-
tion owners should have such an aversion
to children.” Whereupon Sub-Inspector
King, who knows the West, said he
was well awmre “that many station owners
had a pronounced aversion to having chil-
dren about the place.” Pure Merino cannot
stand youngsters —they don’t carry fleeces.
A Chef (Chinese).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Chef (Chinese) disengaged, excellent reference,
city or North preferred.—Coußimi advt.
A Chef (Chinese) ! Romantic recollections
Float with the words on ev’ry passing breeze;
We dream of Canton cooks and quaint refections,
Of rat ragout, sam-shu and wondrous teas ;
Once more we sniff the pie-hid feline’s savor,
An odor comes of shark and beche-de-mer,
While now and then a weird and witching flavor
Of buried eggs appears to fill the air.
And all our soul goes out in one great yearning
To sample what the Orient can do ;
To taste her springs of culinary learning,
And sip the gay concoctions she may brew ;
And all we need to ope the curious portal
And all her cherished dainties so to seize
Is but to snare that magic-working mortal
Who dubs himself in print—a Chef (Chinese).
Our palate wearies of these Western dishes,
This everlasting chop and Irish stew;
We harbor other aims and higher wishes,
We fain would see what Almond Eyes can do ;
Within our brain there rings a clamor dreary:
“Confound your stupid British beer and cheese;
We want to peck at something quaint and eerie—
We pine for him, this simple Chef (Chinese).”
Perchance the dainties dished up by this wizard
Were served one-time to mighty Genghis Khan ;
Perchance his soup hath pleased the potent gizzard
Of leaders fierce who lead the Mongol van;
Perchance in curious, ancient, pig-tailed revels,
His culinary art knew how to please,
Wherefore no marvel if we foreign devils
Would fain secure that gem—a Chef (Chinese) !
If he were ours, mayhap when life has faded
And all things smack of yellow leaves and sere,
When pulses slowlier beat and taste is jaded
And Joy’s sweet cup is filled with bitter beer,
llow might we yet recall in mem’ry grateful,
Mid many a sad, regretful, senile wheeze,
That Mongol artist with his mystic plateful
Who danced attendance as a Chef (Chinese) !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
SICK ROOM SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY EDMUND FISHER
/ ''AIII Day Nurse, with her morning smile,
-L Comes gaily on the scene
Where shapes of darkness lurked awhile
With fireflecks in between.
The window raised admits the breeze
That blows so kindly through the trees.
And fragrant is its breath;
Dark Night Nurse now, her duly done,
Retires before the rising sun.
The world’s astir, its task begun —-
Begone! all thoughts of death!
Fair Day Nurse brings the patient food;
And will not take a nay;
Protesting “This will do you good,”
She brings it on a tray;
And though one be extremely loth
To try the fish, or sip the broth,
That fact is not discussed.
The angel props one up in bed,
Her plump warm hands behind one’s head
And feeble “can’t” is captive led
By firm, decisive “must.”
Each evening, on the stroke of eight,
There steals into the room
Dark Night Nurse, soft a-foot as Fate,
A harbinger of gloom.
The hours she marks give scanty rest
To. mind or body, brain or breast.
How spirit-like she seems
When steadily she comes a-creep
To see if one be yet asleep I
The end of life is slumber deep
That knows no fitful dreams.
Twixt time and time, in light or shade,
One fain would live or die.
Fair Day Nurse, in her smiles arrayed,
Is graceful to the eye.
Her chatter is a song of life,
Of strength to do and healthful strife,
For one, and each, and all.
Dark Night Nurse, with the pensive face,
Has more of gentleness and grace j
But her reflections on the case
Cast shadows on the wall.
What ho t good Day Nurse, laugh you loud,
And flood the room with light,
And tear from off my soul the shroud
Of sad foreboding night!
Now let me not on sickness brood,
But tease me with your talk of food
You mean to make me eat!
1 The hours are gone, when pain oppressed
My hopes lay prone and Death seemed best,
To the great Sun-god I’ve confessed
That life again is sweet.
VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 22, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The Macgregor clan is gathering again.
This time ’tis in preparation for a bail,
which will take place on August 9, the night
after the Assembly, so methinks the same
decorations will gaze down upon the same
frocks. It is understood that the Chieftain
was disappointed at the scarcity of young
blooms at the Coronation whirl, so this
frolic has been specially arranged to give
them another chance to blossom to his Ex.’s
satisfaction.
The Centennial Hall nearly broke its belt
on Thursday night, struggling to hold the
tons of seething Brisbane that wanted to
view the tableau entertainment for which the
Vision and the tender olive twigs of our
Most Exclusive were responsible. The
show was in the interests of the Queen
Alexandra Home, and, as the expenses must
have, been inconsiderable, the balance will
require the best part of a wheelbarrow for
itself. His Ex. and Lady Mac. apparently
agreed with me that the tableaux were good,
but I don’t know what they thought of the
dreary 20 minutes’ wait between each set-
ting. The only person who seemed to enjoy
these long intervals was the man who sat
next to me. He went out each time, and,
towards the end, when he walked on my
toes, his tread was nearly as heavy as the
m, a ?? ran P e - of whisky which accompanied him.
The Vision got big helpings of applause
when she appeared with a bunch of old love-
letters in a representation of “Memories,”
and, again, as a chrysanthemum in a garden
of sister blooms. ITilma Ohman ran her a
close second, and Ida Chambers divided hon-
ors with Mabel Brady, who appeared en-
twined in the folds of a hefty-looking cobra.
Unlike the original snake, this one was se-
curely chloroformed, so it wasn’t as exciting
as it might have been.
Wee Macgregor still takes hospitals very
seriously : presides over their meetings ; cock’s
a severe medical eye at the wards ; discusses
learnedly with the resident medico on the
habits of the wild microbe: and generally
leaves behind an impression that if he wasn’t
a frilled and tasselled Australian Governor
he could be of some use.
It is fearful and pathetic to watch the
hapless A.D.C. at a women’s hospital, quietly
dogging the steps of the Vice-Reine as
she doles out sympathetic utterances. One
lobster-complexioned gentleman-help was, in
the execution of his duty, forced to sit tight,
at a meeting of the Girls’ Friendly Society
some time ago, when a Governor’s spouse
remarked in dulcet tones, on being told of the
resignation of several members: “Could not
some effort be made to induce them to join
the Mothers’ Union?”
March King Sousa arrived here last Tues-
day in cold, bleak weather not unsuitable for
keeping Polar regions up to specifications,
lie was promply “received,” escorted to West’s
Olympia, and subjected to the usual speech-
making, at which Mayor Diddams, the At-
torney-General and J. W. Blair were the
chief offenders. Sousa then rose and con-
fidentially murmured a reply into the May-
oral ear. It may have been a brilliant
speech, but, as it was perfectly inaudible,
I wouldn’t swear to it. But I heard his
band later in the day, and you can take my
word for that part of the business.
“Maritana” was again dragged before the
footlights by a company of Brisbane amateurs
last Tuesday evening, and the performance
showed courage and perseverance, if nothing
else. The entertainment was in aid of the
Hospital, and is expected to return to that
institution sufficient to make its treasurer
feel he has had a birthday.
Queenslanders in London gathered together'
on June 15 for their annual dinner, and,
after doing their best in regard to each
other’s health, passed on to a reception given
by Agent-General Robinson to Andy Fisher.
People who barely knew one another at
home, or referred coldly to “that woman”
when in Brisbane, were enthusiastic in their
greetings, so glad were they to see an Aus-
tralian face in big, lonely London. Bris-
bane was represented by Captain and Mrs.
Colonna, the McWhirters, the A. R. Men-
zies, Nettie Evans, Mrs. Lockhart Spence
and others.
The Warehams, who are in the shipping
line, danced and fed the gilded youth of this
town on the occasion of a son’s coming of
age. Mrs. Wareham’s frock was something
in jet over pink, and daughter Elsie wore a
foam of cream chiffon.
The Commercial Travellers’ Club burst in-
to hospitality on Saturday, when President
and Mrs. Horton extended the annual glad
hand to the female relatives of members, and
led them gently to where afternoon tea sim-
mered on the hob or the next handiest place.
Mr. and Mrs. P. Tully, of Ray station,
near Adavale, had a “golden wedding” re-
cently. Almost the whole of their married
life has ben spent at Ray. Their first house
was a hut of mud and thatch, and the nearest
town was Wilcannia (N.S.W.), 500 miles
away. One of the Tully boys recently mar-
ried a daughter of deceased Speaker Leahy.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
One adult one vote in Bananaland has by
no means borne, so far, the expected fruit of
equal opportunities for women. The other
day there were 38 vacancies in the senior
division of the Public Service, and girls
were eligible for only three. Woman has a
lot of arrears to make up yet.
The Lady Bowen Hospital (Brisbane) is
pointing a proud finger to its record for
last year. Out of 547 patients only three
died, and all these were beyond medical aid
when admitted. Since the institution was
opened in 18(54, 10,181 little immigrants
have arrived through its doors.
Brisbane Courier on the renewal of the
Anglo-Jap treaty: “The practical extension
of the alliance to 1921 will probably enable
those Australians who have been in dread of
the Yellow Peril to sleep in their beds for
another decade.” And the Jap—will he
turn over for another 10 years’ slumber,
too?
“A Juddite”: The insectarian no doubt
has a hard row to hoe in out-back Queens-
land ; still on the coast you stumble over
things like this (motion adopted by the
Anglican Synod at Rockhampton) : —-
# That this Synod desires to express its strongest
disapproval of the widespread habit prevalent
throughout the diocese of members of the Church of
England giving contributions towards the funds of
other religious bodies, especially when the diocese
and parochial funds are far from satisfactory.
“Feed My Lambs” —but be sure, first, that
they’ve got the right ear-mark!


A Drinß, a Tonic,
V '
a Digestive Combined.
O.T. is now most popular with ladies, as it possesses
similar excellent properties for which Gin is noted. How
O.T. improves the flavour and palatability of Gin or
Schnapps is a revelation. It also lessens the alcoholic
effect, and leaves its own aroma on the breath.
Without Alcohol or Gas
<a.
Qma
pQIiTROU
A*
golS
Specia/ly approved
and recommended
as a pure product
by th e British
Analytical Control.
A body formed to protect the
food supplies of the public of
the United Kingdom.
O.T. is quite unlike any other beverage—
it stands alone. It has a delightful flavor
of its own, and has as well that satisfying
“ bite ” which is one of the most attractive
qualities of Spirits.
Compared with other non-alcoholic drinks
O.T. is well endowed with qualities which
they lack-CHARACTER, DISTINCTION
and BENEFICIAL EFFECTS.
WHISKY
bran oy
WINE OR
•'C'BEEAoi
MAKES A
OEIiCIOUS
'••ORINK-
MJOTME
BEST
LIQUEUR
at Tea meals
USE
waTIR \
LfHOmux]
tcouo
\wflTw;
•O&vrcA ‘V
JDixon&O
«,0H ST P»»xl*N» 1t1 77
■Ttll'"""! i,iW '"SJvs!'Sn
A GREAT CURE
FOR INDIGESTION
GOLD MEDAL and
DIPLOMA,
Paris Exhibition
Internationale,
1909 .
O.T. meets the requirements of those
adverse to taking Spirits, and of those
often called on to take a “Social Glass’’
who wish to avoid the effects of too much
Alcoholics or too much gassy drink. I*
appeals to all ages, conditions and classes
of men, women and children in all seasons,
in all climates, In all countries.
SEE THAT YOU GET THIS BOTTLE.
CONSIDER THE BENEFITS YOU
OBTAIN FROM O.T.
is derived from Fruits and Herbs, recognised for their nutritive
m • and beneficial properties, and having essentials favorable for the
blending of a delicious, healthful drink. Agreeable to the palate
and distinguished for its favorable effects on the constitution, O.T. is an everyday
beverage that can be taken at all times with happy results it is always a safe and
desirable form of refreshment for use at Home, at the Club, at the Bar.
Having the same warming, exhilarating and cheering effects as spirituous
liquors, but being without any intoxicating quality, O.T. is the happy medium
between a soft and a hard drink, and the nearest approach to a substitute foi
alcohol that has ever been produced. Full-bodied, new, and distinctive in charac-
ter, charming in flavor, not too sweet, not gassy, its taste grows on you, and after
the first bottle you just begin to fully appreciate its deliciousness.
Added to water (hot or cold), Lemonade, Ginger Ale or Soda Water,
O.T. improves the flavor and forms a blend more grateful and more power-
ful in allaying thirst. A dash of O.T. improves the flavor of Whisky,
Schnapps, Gin or Wine in a remarkable manner, lessens their intoxicating
effect, and leaves its own sweet aroma on the breath.
In Country districts, where the cost of Aerated Waters is too expensive, O.T.
and water (hot or cold) will be appreciated both for its deliciousness and economi-
cal cost.
In all seasons O.T. has excellent qualities to recommend it, but for the Winter
it is specially suitable, as it is the only non-alcoholic drink capable of promoting
warmth. Its stimulating effect on a cold day improves the circulation and pro-
motes the warmth in the body necessary to ward off Colds and Chills. Taken in
time, it will counteract the effects of a Chill and drive out a Cold that may be
coming on you. It is invaluable to athletes, outdoor workers, and to those working,
travelling or driving at night.
O.T. has excellent properties as a stomachic, and is of the greatest service in
promoting appetite, helping digestion and assimilation, and enabling you to obtain
the greatest benefit from the food you eat. Drink in some form is indispensable to
the solution and digestion of food, and, because of its beneficial influence, O.T. is
without doubt one of the best Meal-time drinks. No beverage sits so agreeably on
the stomach, so refreshes the system, or forms a more grateful repast. As a liqueur
after meals O.T. is more elficacious and has more value as a digestive than many
so-called liqueurs, and, not containing' alcohol, its use is specially recommended to
ladies.
O.T. has a soothing and tonic effect, and if you wake up unrefreshed
in the morning, with a furred tongue and a bad taste in the mouth, a glass
of O.T. will clear the digestion, correct the liver, and make you fit and
well again. If you suffer from Indigestion arising from erorrs in diet,
Fulness after meals, Flatulency or Colic, you have an excellent remedy
in O.T. On a winter night, to promote a healthy glow and ensure a good
night’s rest, a glass of O.T. hot is the best of nightcaps.
O.T. is now sold in the following Countries:
Australia, New Guinea and Pacific Islands, Dutch East Indies, Straits Settlements,
Ceylon, India, China, Japan, Manila, South Africa, West and East Africa, Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland, Norway,, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Newfoundland,
Canada, West Indies.
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT PASSING OFF.
Refuse inferior drinks put up by unscrupulous manufacturers in
their endeavor to imitate 0.T., as these imitations do not contain the
same ingredients and have not the virtues and merits of O.T.
Insist on Getting the Genuine.
Traders who pass off other drinks as O.T. will be proceeded
against under the Commonwealth Trade Marks Act.
If unable to get Genuine O. T„ in your locality
please send us the name of your trader.
BUY A BOTTLE AND TRY IT.
As with everything else, the practical test
of O.T. is the one to go by. You can obtain a
bottle at a small cost, and if you put it to the
test you will find O.T. will prove to be the most
delicious and most beneficial drink you have
ever known.
SOLE MAKERS of 0.T.—0.T. LIMITED, Sydney, Melbourne and
Branches and Depots throughout the World.
London.


Bronchitis
banished by
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Mrs. Conna Gray, 13 Earl St.,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, N.S.W.,
writes (18th Nov. ’09):
“After each bottle of Scott ’s Emulsion
my daughter, Rebe, 22
months old, was noticeably
stronger. Delicate from
birth, she suffered with
nasty colds and bronchitis,
and although various treat-
ments were tried, she made
no progress until I gave her
Scott’s Emulsion. She
then rapidly improved, and
very shortly was quite cured of the colds
and bronchitis, and in splendid health.”
ghj
These successes, repeated
season after season, have
given Scott’s Emulsion a
reputation in all parts of
the world, a reputation
which no other emulsion
than Scott’s possesses.
No other emulsion has ever
received the cordial appro-
val of the medical and nurs-
ing professions the world
over. No emulsion, bought
instead of Scott’s, can give
you the proof which Scott’s
provides. This CERTAINTY
should be worth many times
the price of Scott’s Emul-
sion. Therefore, don’t ask
for ‘ ‘ emulsion ’ ’ —ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
leant afford to lose you
gh
FLITE
BALL
yellow
1 dot *
too-
EVERY PART OF THE LATEST
B.G. GOLF BALL
is made liv experts of the very best Material, and
is tested to the very highest degree before leaving
the works.
No imported ball undergoes more thorough Super-
vision during the course of manufacture than the
Flite Yellow Dot Golf Bail
which flies better than others, and is guaranteed
not to crack for 18 Holes.
BARNET CLASS RUBBER CO., LTD.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney. And all States.
jhg
A NEW
AND CLEVER
INVENTION.
Folds flat for
[pocket; extend*
Ito 4in by . 4in.
Field, ,0 pera,
Reading, and
Magnifying
' also
Mi
Tele-
scope and Com*
pass, all com*
ibined Only tff
' posted to any ad-
dress. One of tho
best and most use-
ful combinations
erer produced.
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
"LINSEED COM POUN D” —Trade Mark of Kay’s
C.impound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
MEN S WINTER FOOTWEAR.
A NEW
MODEL.
Price 19/6.
The Glace or Box Balmoral illustrated is the result of the
best shoe-making thought obtainable, applied to the best
mechanical process and worked out in as excellent
leather as the world’s tanneries afford.
Write for our Booklet,
“ SHOELIGHT.”
■
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
“Aberdeen” Waterproof
Buggy Rugs !
For SERVICE and SATISFACTION.
QUITE different to the ordinary kind. It is made
of special waterproof, and ROT-PROOF cloth—
will not become sticky, crack, nor emit a dis-
agreeable odor under the sun’s beat, like rubber-covered
or glazed rugs. A rug that looks well, and wears splen-
didly. Colors: BROWN or KHAKI. Size 70in. x
60in. If unobtainable locally, send for price list.
Smith, Copeland & Co. Ltd.,
204-206 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AGENTS—
QUEENSLAND: H. J. H. ROSS, Edward Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA : J. BARTRAM & SONS, King Street, Melbourne.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. WHITING, Currie Street, Adelaide.
m
m.
mm
■HPi
m
Aberdeen Horse and
Cow Rugs and Tents
are quite the best
obtainable, too. Lead-
ing; stores sell them.
j
the World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
TH THF FADMFP the FERRO ENGINE has
proven itself an inestimable
boon by relieving him of the hard work about the
farm, such as pumping water, chaff and ensilage
cutting, bagging and hoisting, corn grinding, husk-
ing and shelling, sawing wood, separating cream,
driving winnowers or any machine for which
moderate power is required. Also on account of the
increased profit made by their use, which in many
cases has more than paid for the entire outfit before
the f rst season is over.
Drop a postcard to the nearest agent, giving par-
ticulars of machine or plant for which you require
power, and he will advise you of the most suitable
engine for the purpose. YOU WILL REMEMBER
THEIR HONEST SERVICE LONG AFTER YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN THE SMALL COST.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3, jy 2t 8,11,12,15,17, 25 B.H.P.
FERRO AGENTS :
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moore, APIA, SAMOA.
TRY IT AND TRUST IT.
When your stationer shows you the Onoto Safety Fountain
Pen—write a word or two with it. You will be surprised at
the ease with which it slips over the paper. It is an ideal
writing implement. But that is not all—the Onoto
—Fills itself in a flash from any ink supply
—Never leaks and never splutters nor scratches
—And it is British made.
Really it is worth while to insist on having an Onoto Pen.
It costs you only 12/- (a little more for the new G model).
Get one to-day at any good stationers, jewellers or stores.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos. De La
Rue & Co., Ltd., 172, Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representative, Norman Baker, 50 Yoik Street, Sidney.
r -
and UpwardL
ghj
Self-Filling - •
Safety Fountain
Pen
important. —For those who require a larger pen with
a very flexible nib, we have put on the market a special
model —the new G. It is exceptional value for the money.
Try this new G at your stationer's.
ICILMA
Dry SHAMPOO
POWDER.
TWO SHAMPOOS FOR THREEPENCE.
LADIES !
When your hair gets dirty and greasy,
And the winds are cold and breezy,
There's a SHAMPOO DRY
That you should try
Called “ICILMA" —it's efficient and easy.
NO
WATER
AT ALL
NEEDED
USE
DRY
3d.
PER
PACKET.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, or post free from
ICILMA DEPOT, 139 SYDNEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and 7io MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any Stale) accomnatiy.
Spinifex : The subject’s buried. . . .Lone-
some: Try us with it. .. .G.N.M.: Thanks; we’ll ex-
pect better presently.... Back o’ Sunset: Cannot say
off-hand whether the person you name is amongst
those who submit poems to Tiib Bulletin. The
poem editor says he fears the worst. .. .Elsie M. T.:
Well, there isn’t much in “Cafe,” and still less in
“Lobster.”... .G. Winter: Only the Christian
Herald can print things like that.... J.V.M.: If we
said there was a flicker of promise in them, the
flicker would sue us for defamation of character....
Factory Tart: Not badly written; but Valerie Des-
mond is another paper’s pie....J. Gordon: Quite
hopeless The Recruit: Yes M. N. Henty:
Either “Arquebus” or “Arquebuse” (Webster). The
final “e” isn’t sounded... .Itiverina: Harry Stock-
dale, Botany-street, Randwick The Peaks:
Searched as far as possible, and cannot find it....
5.11. M. (Johore) : No; we’ve got universal (Austral-
asian) penny postage, but we haven’t got a Common-
wealth postage stamp yet. . . .P.M.8.: The verdict
finally went against it. . . .Medicus: Regret unsuit-
able. Returning MS....Armis: Your autobiography
herewith
I was born at street
On the 13th of November :
With difficulty we made ends meet,
I very well remember ;
My father got from bad to worse,
My mother toiled and slaved,
At times she’d mutter “Drink’s a curse,
He’ll squander all I’ve saved.”
At last one day a cab he got,
The No. was thirteen.
“Thirteen bad luck ? That’s only rot!
’Twill turn in many a bean!”
The thirteenth day the horse fell down,
My father’s life was spent;
The only money half a crown
Was left to pay the rent.
....Grimm: Bosh. Bash!... .T.8.R.: Not bad, but
not quite good enough. ... A.S. (M.L.) : Not at all
thrilling C.E.H.: None arrive J.F.11.: Two
long, sad poems sewn together. They were duly paid
out, read, and then wound up on the office capstan.
Crew now sitting on the rail talking of other things.
...,H.E.8.: Sorry can’t use it.... Sam W.: None of
them E.M.H.: Unskilful work. No gleams of
promise J.R. (V.): “Win” unsuitable Gab:
Creditable rhymes, but they would need a lot of
planing.. .F.P. (Sydney): Can’t give it a chance...
A!L. (V.): Sorry Sandy G.: We will drop round
and look at the sign when your sixpence arrives.
Story dry.... Anon (V.): Tie your hat on firmly,
and have a good look at this extract from your surf
poem: —
At times the sea smiles and lessens its roar,
And pretends to give rest to the battle-seared shore.
But alas for the cliffs, the respite is but short,
For the fight is renewed as but for the sport;
And many poor ships the sea whirls in evident glee
On the rocks of the cliffs in sweet mimicry.
...A.S. (Q.) : Unskilful.. .Ril: Too fierce altogether.
We decided against it when you informed the lady
that you intended to crush her hands as you’d crush
a wayside stone,.. .Jas. A. (W.A.) : Sorry not up
to print 1eve1.... Carton: Doesn’t bite u 5.... Bel-
tana: Labored imitation... .C.M.J.: To the tomb
with it! C. J.P.: Dead snake removed reverently
on a shovel. .. .Vidal: Guess not. We struggled
along cheerfully until we struck the line, “My soul-
lights, well Belovfid, are aflame.” What are soul-
lights?. . ..Author of “The Vacant Cot”: Simple
home-made verse, with a dash of Tennyson. Observe:
I am now in bewilderment,
My tongue can utter not.
The thoughts that arise in me
About the little cot.
This, however, looks quite original:—
The cottage it is vacant;
Around is derelict, bare;
My memory fondly wakens
Of the deranged everywhere.
. ...L.A.: Afraid your sympathetic stanzas would
not comfort the ’possum one gumlcaf.... Unknown:
“MacNabby’s Racehorse” scratched with a harrow..
G.T. (New Britain): Unable to use-verse. Glad to
consider stories or pars..... .H.P. (V.): Haven’t
enough crape in the office for “Three Deaths.”....
D.D. (Sydney) : Unsuitable L.J.C.: Thrown out
at a muzzle velocity of 500,000 feet per second....
Fencer D.: Don’t know why you called it “Sun-
down.” Why didn’t you christen it “Boiling”? Or
make it topical, and ring in some reference to paper-
bag cookery ? One verse: —
A proud old aristocrat was he,
Although he tilled his country’s soil.
“It makes my old blood boil! ” he said ;
“It makes my old blood boil!”
lra: Go on apologising to Macaulay C.
Graham: No value Massa: In de col’, col’ basket!
. ...J.L.1.: The King resembles most of his tribe—
he has nothing interesting to say Sandy (M.L.) :
No points about it, but we found several holes
L.R. (W.A.) : Somewhat obscure A.W.R.: Verses
50 years too late. Stageland is not an enchanted
region any more. There are too many press agents
nowadays for that, and the female stars’ pill, oint-
ment and corn-cure testimonials weary our eyes in
every tram car.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
8.K.: It fluttered on the edge, and then was lost.
... .F.L.: No ; we merely groaned... .B.F. (S.A.) :
Put into one the work you now toss into 20, and go
on doing it for seven years, and then you may get
in.
Three of the N.S.W. Supreme Court
Judges may be classed as Churchy. Chief
Justice Cullen is as much at home at a
Church meeting, or an “Army” function, as on
the Bench; Justice Bring is entirely un-
worldly, notwithstanding his long acquaint-
ance with law; and Justice Cohen is a pillar
of the Synagogue. The other occupants get
their sleep otherwise.
“Mr. Ocky” : Fat and his wife used to cry
“Shame” to the assertions at Referenda
time that thousands of pounds were being
splashed to hinder Australia and help the
monopolist and the sweater. Now the bal-
ance-sheets of some of the bodies which
supported Fat are being presented to mem-
bers, and the value of the indignation is
coming to light. In my small village the
Women’s Fashionable League owns that it
got £45 10s. from “headquarters” towards
Referendum expenses—£4s 10s. for one small
league in one small township. It went, ap-
parently, in afternoon teas. The old Abo.
discussion, “Do snakes slime their prey?”
was answerer in the affirmative, wasn’t it?
The old and monstrous enemy called Rent
is likely to receive a severe blow if Labor
wins the next elections in Victoria. This
dragon is specially fierce in Port Melbourne,
a suburb containing a greater proportion of
wretched, dilapidated huts than any other;
but for all its decayed condition, rents are
high. Recent advances have varied from
five to 50 per cent., and the landlord (with
a groan) says that the land tax is ruining
him. Therefore the Port Melbourne Council
(the only Labor municipal government in
Melbourne) has asked Opposition-leader
Prendergast to draft a Fair Rent Bill. For
the present the alleged “Liberals” will greet
such a Bill with howls, but it will come
along all the same.


Rifles, Shotguns'and Cartridges
THE RED W BRAND
There is such an intimate relation between a gun
and its cartridges that neither will shoot well if there
is any defect in either. The cartridges must be
uniform in size and shooting strength no less than
the gun must be accurate and reliable. The combi-
nation of Winchester guns and cartridges seems best
to fulfill these requirements. And why should not
this be so ? for Winchester guns and cartridges are
made in the same factory and tested together. Win-
chester Repeating and Single Shot Rifles and Repeat-
ing Shotguns are made for all kinds of shooting, and
Winchester Cartridges for all makes of shotguns, rifles
a:~d pistols. Get the celebrated Winchester make.
For Sale by All Dealers .
GUN AND CARTRIDGE FACTORIES OF WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
m
I i ll
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
by the
“ROYAL PACKET.”
rnmmm
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for . . .
Java and Singapore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Dobo and Macassar,
by the Magnificent New Steamers
Van Linschoten and Van Waerwyck.
These Steamers are specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins, all situated on the upper deck, and.provided with
electric fans and large windows. No port-holes. No inside cabins.
Spacious promenade decks.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
FORTY-SIX REGULAR MAIL SERVICES
throughout the Thousand Islands of the Malay Archipelago. Maintained by G 4 Modern
Mail Steamers. Total tonnage, 103,900 gross.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
7 SPRING STREET. SYDNEY.
JOHN SANDERSON & CO., Melbourne; BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane;
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide ;
EARP BROS. & CO., LTD., Newcastle.
“ The Chalmers Has been
recommended to me.”
Day after day, both in Sydney and Melbourne, intending purchasers come to our showrooms to
see the Chalmers —men from the North of Queensland, men from Tasmania, men from all over
We take this condition to mean that the Chalmers car has not only now made a good reputa-
tion in our country, but also that the Chalmers Company has succeeded in building cars that
appeal to the careful buyers here.
Out of the 46 cars we have sold since Christmas, 35 of them were Chalmers cars; out of
these 35 purchasers, 12 were experienced motorists —men who had previously owned cars. Again,
there were four repeat orders from Chalmers owners.
From Svdney to Narromine, 300 miles, at an average of 33 miles per hour, and over 20 miles
to the gallon of fuel. From Warialda to Newcastle, 310 miles, in daylight. Seven thousand
miles in 10 weeks, and the front tyres still good. These records speak for themselves.
20-30 H.P. Touring Car
equipped with Five Lamps,
Generator, 880 x 120
Tyres,
£490
Both
Guaran-
teed
Two
Years.
35-40 H.P. Torpedo
with full equipment
and 920 x 120
tyres,
£790
ART CATALOGUES ARE FREE.
GET ONE.
ROY W. SANDFORD
Agent for Chalmers and Thomas Cars and Empire Runabouts,
105 EXHIBITION ST.. MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
APIT T ABHVTF THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
a
A
MOUSTACHE GROWING MADE EASY
Not the ordinary, nondescript sort of moustache,
but a really, long handsome one—is easily grown by
f A Dll I ADI IMP the Genuine Moustache
I lLLnt\l i > I -< Producer & Strengthener.
A little rubbed on each night is all that is required. Send for a jar to-day.
Price 10/6, post free to any Address in the World.
The O. &A. Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache. Worn
at night. No. 1, 2,6; No. 2, 3/6; No. 3, 5/6. Post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
STEVENS
MAYNARD JR. RIFLE NO. 15.
Measures 33 inches over all. Weighs pounds. “Take Down” Feature.
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle —will also shoot C. B. caps and
.22 Short R. F. and .22 Long R. F. cartridges.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire*
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues- [9
.
t ■-
.
r\
Another Australian Record
on the “Afcock” Table.
TO the remarkable series of record breaks by Gray, Roberts, Williams and
Lindrum, already performed on the “Aleock” Table, is added another record
by Lind rum. His latest achievement was in the Melbourne match with
Reece, when he secured the phenomenal break of 1239—1230 coming off the red,
establishing two Australian records. All these champions have expressed their
high opinion of Aleock Tables, for huge breaks are only possible where the table
is “ true to angle,” with cushions, jaws and every other pai t absolutely perfect.
Both Gray and Lindrum owe their present reputations largely to the
“Aleock” Table. It is on these tables they practised and made many of their
largest breaks. We will gladly post you our illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCH CO. PTY. LTD.,
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 397 George St., Sydney.
7 King William St., Adelaide. 114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Murray St., Perth. Lower Cuba Street, Wellington.


The Countess of
Dudley writes a
Remarkably Frank
Farewell Article to
Australians in the
August issue of
The (one Hand
Other important features are:—
A CURE FOR TUBERCULOSIS—A full account of an
Australian doctor’s treatment that has cured the
writer and 90 per cent, of other consumptives.
THE BULL FIGHT—A graphic description of Spain’s
national sport, illustrated by pictures by eminent
Spanish artists.
“FATTY BENNET” —Another Norman Lindsay
“kiddie” story.
“A BOOK OF THE MONTH”—A new literary de-
partment.
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER”—Another big instal-
lment of the entrancing serial.
On Sale July 29.
PRICE—THE PRICE OF
“THE BULLETIN.”
Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS-CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and U a dy Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
International pictures, colonial
THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
• Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play' concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo play manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS -EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches : Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England: Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “ International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
Town hall, Sydney.
Under Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
AUGUST 3,7, 8 (Matinde), 10 and 12.
LEONARD
mmm
ONE OF THE WORLD'S GREAT PIANISTS.
PIANOFORTE RECITALS.
PRICES f>/-, 3-/, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
MR. H. B. IRVING’S SEASON
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
in THU LYONS MAIL.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney,
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING, AT S.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE MUSICAL PLAY IN THREE ACTS,
THU BALKAN PBINCESS.
Box- Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual,
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH COMIC
OPERA COMPANY in
The London Musical Comedy Success,
SERGEANT BRU E.
A BIGGER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gkorgk Marlow, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE MOTHER OF HIS CHILD.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 29,
Complete Reproduction of the Sensational Melodrama,
TH E POWER OE THE C ROSS
Interpreted by the Full Strength of GEORGE MARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra.
gL| ATION AL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors—Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd.
Governing Director—Mr. Janies Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O'CLOCK.
Last Nights of TOBY CLAUDE, Artistic Comedienne.
MILLIE DORIS, Eccentric Comedienne.
THE PIQUAYS, Grace and Strength.
THE VAGGES, Bag Punchers. Last Nights Anita Diaz.
CORONATION GEORGE V. Our Great Double Co.
Ordinary Prices—2/-, 1/6,1/. ; Gallery 6d. Reserved Seats,
6d. extra. Saturday Nights—2/-, 1/6 & 1/-
AMATEUR TRIAL NIGHTS, FRIDAY EVENINGS.
AIEW PRINCESS THEATRE
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
gYD N E Y GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE - SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
Admission—2/- ; Children : Morning & Afternoon only, 1/-
Children : Saturday Morning only, 6d.
SKATE HIRE-SIXPENCE.
Private Instruction may be Booked for Hours during
and between the Sessions.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
UYCEUM
EVENING AT S
ME
T
EVERY
Mati necs-Wednesdays Saturdays and Holidays at 230
CPENCERSHTeaTREKOPE <?
J PICTURES
~ *ke suPE/iron ro all or/fe/zs. ■*
Popular Prices —t- Plan at pAHNoa.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINFES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
THE CORONATION FESTIVITIES IN LONDON.
A Beautiful Series of Biograph, to be shown in addition
' to our Great Company.
BINNS & BINNS, the Comedy and Music Vagabonds.
ALCIDE CAPITAINE, The Perfect Lady Gymnast.
SPISSELL BROS. & MACK, Eccentrics & Pantomimists.
KELDINE and KLIMO. TED KALMAN
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BROWN & ROBSON, Duo Vocalists.
ARTHUR CROXON. Monologue Entertainer.
REIOHEN S PERFORMING DOGS.
BLANQHE CHARMEROY, Musical Artiste.
MARGUERITE ISMAY and Girls ih Spectacular Scene,
“Off to Lapland.”
TOM DAWSON, Australian Comedian,
■ CORONATION PICTURES.
Plan at Allan’s. ,T2T PRICES —35., 25., Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and. Manager : William Andurhon.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
A Revival of the Realistic Australian Drama,
THE MAN I?ROM OUTBACK
Reappearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 2s. and Is.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager': J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS/
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OUR MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
A N Australian’s Two Hands—;THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
MELBOURNE.
JHEATRE ROYAL,
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
MISS ETHEL IRVING and her LONDON COMPANY in
THE WITNESS FOR THE
DEFENCE.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
IAIEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
YVEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
WORTHS OLYMPIA..
JLL EVERY. EVENING AT S
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS.SATUBDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 30.
C PENCER'SIfEATREJCOPE G>.
J PICTURES
n» rtRL r SUPERIOR ro PLL OTHERS..*,
Popular Priced -»»- Plan as Ushal^u
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vlo.
EVERY NIGH Tat 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER ”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous '* Mack ” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
M
ELBOURNE GLAC
lARIUM
ICE SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
ADMISSION—AFTERNOONS, 2/-; CHILDREN, 1/-.
EVENINGS, 1/-.
h
Turn
“•i This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself,
THE ...
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
SELF-FILLING
FOUNTAIN
PENS.
AN innovation forfountain
pen users. Simply twist
end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen is filled.
Construction simple, no
joints to leak. The soft
rubber reservoir which con-
tains the ink is guaranteed
for five years. The most
practical self-filling pen on
the market. This pen has
met with the highest ap-
proval of users in America
anti Europe. ,
Made in all styles of hold-
ers and points. We have
attractive propositions for
the dealer, and shall be glad
to send particulars upon re-
quest. We also manufac-
ture'a complete line of
standard and safety foun-
tain pens.
' Address:
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
NEW YORK.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
If it isn’t an A. A. it isn’t a
“ MODERN.”
f
fgj
PEBECO
does far more than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and -morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, eoonomy
in dental expense and better health.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Sole Agent—
C Arnold 6 O’Connell St., Sydney
. AinOlU, (Wholesale only).
ƒgĵfg
YOUR FORTUNE 19 IN YOUR HAND
With tht Hand-Reailing Chart you can Tall
your own Fortune by reading the lines on your
hand. If you are to be rich, happy, long-lived, famous
and successful in love, or otherwise, there it is, I
plainly written on your hand. The events of your
life : accidents, successes, illnesses, joys, misfortunes,
lucky ventures, journeys, and raix-ups through love,
marriage or intrigue. It is most interesting. Send'
One Shitting and state your Birthday and r
will receive with the Chart your ASTROLOGICAL
DESTINY CARD telling your fortune by the suri,
Tha Unlaw Company, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
x f
MORE CRAMPS on COLD FEET
Electric Insoles Keep the Feet Warm, pro-
mote circulation, relieve nervous troubles, aispe)
rheumatic pains, prevent Cramps, overcome
sleeplessness, and ward off colds and chills. Fit
comfortably into any boots or : shoes. Alternate
plates of copper and zinc generate a mild form of
electric energy and warm the feet by increasing the
circulation. Warm feet mean no doctor's bills.
Try a pair; you will be pleased. Delivered anywhere
for 3/6 per pair. State size of boot when ordering.
The tfnioil Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
jgj
Every Boy His Own Toy Maker
Just the Book for Clever Boy« It
brightens the ideas of every Boy.
Tells how to make a Steam Engine,
a Photo Camera, a Windmill, a
Microscope, an Eleotrical Machine,
a Galvanic Battery, Telegraphic
Apparatus, Telephones, a Kaleido-
scope, a Magio Lantern, an iEolian
Harp, Ships and Boats of all kinds,
Kites, Balloons, Bows and Arrows.
Fishing Tackle, Bird and Animal
Trans and many other things. 200 illustrations. Only EIGHT
FENCE, posted. UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
gf
LIGHTNING CALCULATOR
Just what everybody wants. Errors in figur—
often mean big losses. The Calculator ca-
not err: a nisUke It impossible
Carry it in your pocket like a Handsome
Watch It may save pounds the first
time you use it. Strongly made, easily
managed, quite simple. You can, for
example, multiply In an instant
47 by 14 = 658, with the Calculator.
Only 6/6 anywhere by registered post. ,
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St.. Melb.
gf
Prompt Relief
rfrom Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
S T JACOBS
U
jP
J'
3
#■
i
/
23-11
The Newest Model
Here is indeed a corset embodying the very latest decrees of
Queen Fashion. Fresh from their latest studies in Paris, our
designers present to you the new La Diva Model No. 550.
La Diva Canadian Corsets give distinction
to the simplest of gowns. The corset is the
foundation of a perfect toilet, and La Diva is
the best foundation.
This particular model is designed for slim
figures. Note the lines of grace and beauty,
the flatness of the back and the straight hip and
front. Observe how it adds tone to the figure.
You will be enthusiastic about this corset
achievement and even more so when you find
out for yourself how absolutely comfortable
and restful it is. Yet in spite of its
perfection of style, fit and finish, it
is sold by all leading drapers at a
moderate price. It is worth your
while, Madam, to have your
dealer show you these Canadian
corsets.
DOMINION CORSET CO., QUEBEC, Canada.
Makers of tha famous 0 & A Canadian Corsets.
550


RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
COUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBACO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
j
ARE YOU
D E A F?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You -use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Eat-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Brum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the. fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do hot send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Odtfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as "soon as vou
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an in-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register it.
JUST
IN
TIME
The
Good
1
Samaritan
L-
St
25
•a
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS and COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES
im
H
£,3000
Prizes Value
IN THE
ART UNION
and SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1911.
8-HOUR
Ist Prize, value £650,
3rd Prize, value £2OO.
2nd Prize, value £350.
And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D, Owen, Bulli, N.S.W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
, To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOVLE, Secretary, Trades-Hall, Sydney.
ZEISS
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
gf
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
Xl2 £l2 10 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X6.—£9 0 0
X 8 15 0
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
,l/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
j
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRH(EA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
fg
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C? td
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
VAN
HOUTEN’S
COCOA
The Favourite
n
i’
GOOD MORNING
Have you used
foi
BREAKFAST TO DAY *
IF NOT, WHY NOT *
It fortifies tlie system, at the
same time delighting the palate
with its flavour.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR IT.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using: Your Own Lette
Paper, Invoices,
etc.. WITH THE
NSC/ 200
PATENT ZaNETIC
COPY'NO BOO'
ĝj
gf
You simply insert
vour writing paper
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford
Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100 Copying 200 full size lOin. x Bin.
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.


SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use.
“ SURE CATCH ” is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN. It has stood the Test for Years, thus Proving its ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers of the day, and CANNOT BE EXCELLED.
“BIG FISH 99 TACKLE SPECIALITIES.
RODS.
Extra Quality Split Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
handed cork srrip, strong-porcelain rod and end rings, best bronzed
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Fish ” Rod. 7J feet, 57/6 each ; 8£ feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A—Very Superior “Big Fish” Rod, made of mottled cane, 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with whalebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake rings,
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/- each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B—The “ Queensland ” Rod, 9£ feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/- each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as IS TESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
REELS.
No. 3C—Nottingham Wood Reels, aluminium lining and flange,
solid brass star back, movable check, very strong iine guard. A
perfect reel for “Big Fish.” 5 inch, 22/6 ; 6 inch, 27/6 ;6£ inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “ Lockfast ” Tension Big Fish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, optional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 inch, 18/6 ; 5 inch, 20/-;
6 inch, 25/- each.
No. 16—Finest Quality Metal “Big Fish” Reels, nickel-plated
rims and bars, inutiplying action, leather thumb brake for checking
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved with aluminium,
which greatly strengthens the reel arid reduces the weight,
3£ inch, 35/-; 4 inch, 45/-
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all game fish. Sizes—
-3£ inch, 3/3 each ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
and can be had in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6; 3J inch, 3/-;
4 inch, 3/6 ; 5 inch, 4/6 each.
No. 3 —Extra Heavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red inside, mounted
with extra strong swivels, split rings, and treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 2/- ; 3& inch, 3/; 4 inch, 3/6 each.
No. 4—Best Quality Ring-mounted Devon Baits, xx heavy and
very strong ; specially made for Big Fish.
3 inch, 2/9 ; 3$ inch, 3/3; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
We hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites.
Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
WIRE TRACES.
“ Tiger” Traces, made from hand-twisted, flexible steel wire. A Trace
of enormous strength. Size X, 1/9 each ; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. 1 —Steel Wire Traces, 1J yards long, 9d. each.
No. 2 — “Hercules” Big Fish Wire Gimp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yard, 9d. ; 1£ yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “ Zenith ” Plaited Flax Lines, made from best quality material,
and are splendid lines for all “ Big Fish.” To be had in lengths of
100 and 200 yards. No. 3, 6/6 ; No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1, 7/-.
No. l/o, 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/- per 100 yards.
CUT THIS OUT.
FILL IN THIS COUPON with your name and address, and
we will forward you by RETURN OF POST a copy of our
AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE, the
BEST AND LARGEST TACKLE LIST EVER PUBLISHED.
The talk of the Angling world. Full of useful information.
Name
Address *"
Bullktin, May 4.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Largest and Most Progressive Fishing Tackle House.
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of n'.S.W.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventeu a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRTJIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sineerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng . by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
eio
P
tOLQ
£
BPS
o
a
<5310
GP
§
IFp
Is the most perfect Preservative tor the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
!
j
fĝf
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in ail parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
AH the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
II
DINNEFORD'S]
Magnesia.
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford & Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printe :
and bound : containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-.
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, ? Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Pa risuls 6<l. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Od. Britain for the
British! 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses, ,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. i Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, ls.2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
fjg
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It. will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to. Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is'3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, ISCId. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (neW), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDoijoall Topped the Score, <fc
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, HeptameroX, and many
others', all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 95 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter. Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Lest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Sons
Book’ over 3CO latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-D


HEUMfITISM
BACK, LEGS AND HANDS BADLY AFFECTED—DREADFUL SWELLING
AND INFLAMMATION CAUSED GREAT PAIN—UNABLE 10 GET ABOUT.
\
Mrs. Stapleton, who recommends
Bile Beans to all sufferers.
I WAS a great sufferer from rheumatics,”
* says Mrs. A. Stapleton, of 136 Forbes
Street, Sydney. “It caught me most
severely in the back, legs and hands,
and the pain was so dreadful that it was
impossible for me to get about. Sharp
twinges would shoot through the affected
parts with torturing effect. My back
and limbs swelled up enormously,
and 1 used to dread anyone to come
near me for fear they would touch me.
Even the slightest pressure, as from
the bed-clothes, would cause me great
agony.
“ I suffered thus for a long time with-
out getting ease from anything. Bile
Beans being recommended to me as a
proved cure for rheumatics, I started a
course, and presently I was conscious
of great relief. The twinges grew less
in their violence and frequency, the
inflammation and pain left the parts, and
the swelling went down. Altogether I
felt very much better, so I continued with
Bile Beans until 1 was quite recovered.
“ Bile Beans are a grand medicine, and I have also found them a
splendid remedy for biliousness. I suffered terribly from this complaint
and severe headaches, which used to prostrate me for days together and
render me unfit for anything. A course of Bile Beans completely cured, me of these distressing
troubles, and now a dose of Bile Beans Keeps me free from them. From my experience I can
confidently recommend Bile Beans as a splendid remedy for rheumatics and biliousness.”
The Standard Family Medicine.
Bile Beans have a world-wide reputation as a proved remedy in cases of
Biliousness, Head-
ache, Indigestion,
Stomach Troubles,
Constipation, Piles,
Female Ailments,
Bad Blood, Bad
Breath, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, Sciat-
ica, and by giving
tone to the system
ward off Colds,
Coughs and Influ-
enza. Obtainable at
1/1J and 2/9 large
box (containing three
times the 1/1J size),
of all chemists and
stores, or The Bile
Bean Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
eans
Beauty’s Favourite.
:|:t r ' < ..■■■"• ■:
The article wHicH excels all otHers
in improving tHe beauty of tHe skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This Has been the
acknowledged and Honoured
position Held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of tHose special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tHe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in sucH a pre-
eminent degree as
EARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
By Sunda Strait.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE lies an isle by Sunda Strait,
Beyond the roads where steamers
Ply;
It knows no law of fare and freight;
Tears pass, and scarce a sail goes by
Betwixt the ocean and the sky;
It lies alone, to dream and wait
By Sunda Strait.
The sun with tropic fervor burns
Its ragged central summits bare,
And daily to his height returns,
And nightly sinks into his lair
With respite to the swollen air,
Which breathes amid the tangled ferns
And orchid-urns.
Strange flowers bespangle Nature’s hem,
And clinging verdure intertwines;
While scattering many a brilliant gem,
It clothes the rocks with woven vines—
Clematis-withes and wild rose-bines —
With supple arms embracing them,
Leaf, branch and stem.
Charmed winds about the island blow ;
They breathe across the still lagoons
And temper day’s too ardent glow,
Or sigh at night to mystic moons
By grots where some sea-monster croons
Old threnodies to waves below —
Insistent, slow.
From stress of towns that may not wait,
From highroads of the land and sea,
Ah, that this isle had been the gate
To havens of strange peace to me!
Here would I dream out life, and be
The hostage to a kindlier fate,
By Sunda Strait.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
Nemesis in the North.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERB was a steely haze on Pearler’s
I Bay, and Drawing Room James
cursed in the lurid manner which had
given him his nickname of Drawing Room
in exchange for the baptismal one of Leslie.
He cursed again, spat viciously into the im-
palpable dust beyond the doorway of the
North Australian Hotel—the doorway that
showed an oblong of the tide-bared flats and
beyond them the dead purple of the Indian
Ocean. Drawing Room looked at it as if he
were weary of it all, and then hurried to
the roadway as he heard the quick breathing
of a willing and weary horse and the pad-
ding of its hoofs in the sharp sand.
“Jimmy, by God!” said Drawing Room.
“Jimmy it is,” said the new-comer, alight-
ing wearily—“and damned tired, too.”
“My grief! Come in and drink, man.”
‘‘Don’t mind if I do,” said James McNair,
entering the bar. He doffed his cabbage-
tree to wipe his forehead, and then you saw'
that he was a young, cheerful, middle-sized
man —that he was prematurely and almost
Totally bald, from much head-sweating in
the tropics.
“How’s Mourama ?” he said, with his
whisky in his hand and regarding Drawing
Room very intently.
“Before you drink with me, Jimmy, I want
to tell you that I’m no damned good. My
grief! Man, I went to sleep, and Mourama
cleared out on your tracks.”
“All right, old man—can’t help that —do
better next time”
“Why don’t you shoot him and be safe?”
enquired the publican.
“I can’t do that, old man —I killed his
father. The damned fool says I killed his
father twice.”
“Whv. how’s that?”
“Well, his father speared two bullocks o’
mine when I was squattin’ down Big Waters
way, and I shot the old man an’ took Mour-
ama—he was only a nipper then. Then his
tribe got hold of him again, and when he
came back he had a turkey’s thigh bone
through his nose and three cuts on his
breasts to show he was a seven months
child. His mother done that, and she done
some more, too. She told him about me
killin’ his old man. And then he began to
stalk me- —-followin’ me for weeks. I lost all
my nerve with that black cow followin’ me
an’ never seein’ him near —never hearin’ him,
only knowin’ he was on my tracks. So one
day I made up my mind to take his spear or
bring him in with me; and I goes straight
out to his camp and waits, finds his gin
Pmyarra, and ties her up in the mia-mia
so’s she couldn’t telegraph him I was there.
By-an’-bye along he comes, an’ as soon as he
gets in the mia-mia r hits him a bash on his
Adam’s apple and grasses him. When ne
comes round he sees I got him beat, and so I
says, ‘Look here, Mourama, you bin stay
longa me all the time —sposin’ you bin run
away, I shootem you.’ An’ he says, ‘Sposin’
you walk longa front of me, by Crise, I kill-
em you.’ ‘What for you killem me?’ says I.
‘You bin killem my father,’ he says. So I
says, ‘Oh, that’s yer game, is it.’ ‘Well, my
black dog,’ says I to myself. ‘l’ll never let
you out of my sight again, and I’ll take good
care never to be alone with you in the
bush.’ Let’s have another drink. ... Oh!
the second killing of his father? Well, I
got Mourama back 12 months ago, an’
about three months alter I’d stiffened him
in the mia-mia, me an’ Lrawin’ Room James
an’ Mourama was camped down on the
Katherine. We goes out to get some meat
for the camp, and I lifts my rifle an’ covers
a big kangaroo. An’ Mourama he comes up
an’ he says, ‘You no shootem that one—mine
bin thinkem that feller my father.’ Well, I
laughs an’ fires, and kills the ’roo, an’ me an’
Drawin’ Room laughs at Mourama. He
doesn’t say much, only sulks. When he goes
along to skin that ’roo I looked round an’
remarked this was the place where I shot
Mourama’s father, and Mourama, o’ course,
knowin’ the place, thinks the old mans come
to life again an’ bin killed the second time,
An’ I daren’t let him out o’ my sight or
Drawin’ Room’s since then.”
“You’d better shoot him and have no
further trouble,” said James.
“None o’ that, James,” replied McNair,
not unkindly—“l won’t kill him in cold
blood.”
“And you’ll never be quick enough to kill
him when your blood’s up, Jimmy, because
it won’t be up for long,” said Drawing
Room.
“I bin takem horse longa yard, boss?”
They turned and saw Mourama grinning—
the certificate of his premature birth accen-
tuated by the white pipeclay bars on his
glossy skin.
“Yowi, you bin takem,” replied McNair
with not a tremor in voice or eye. The
shedder of blood and the avenger looked at
one another with mutual respect for a mo-
ment. Then the black man turned and led
the horse away.
The three whites had another drink in
oppressive silence, broken by the publican
enquiring:
“What’s the show like?”
“I tell you mis is all right, refractory ore
worth seven ounces all through, and I’m goin’
over to see it again in a few days an’ take
it up ; it’s under 70 mile from here, about,
an’ in good country —plenty o’ grass an’
water.”
“You can’t go in a few days, old man;
I’ll be away a week at Darwin —I’m sailing
there to-morrow. And if yoA go who’s to
look after Mourama?”
“All right, old man, I’ll wait the week.”
So next day Drawing Room James,
having visited the camp and interviewed
Mourama, who was duly impressed with the
fact that death for Mourama and Mourama’s
family would follow any injury to Jimmy
McNair, sailed away in his cutter on one of
his mysterious quarterly voyages.
# # * *
Jimmy McNair was one of the most ener-
getic men who ever lived, and after three
days of the week had passed he began to
chafe at the delay. Then did Ben, the
bloated publican, discover a brilliant idea.
“Look here, Jimmy,” he said. “I’m a
J.P. I’ll get somebody to send Mourama
out ’orse-huntin’, an’ as soon as he’s gorn
you charge him with abscondin’ —he’s bound
to you fer 12 munce yet. Then we gets the
trooper to lumber ’im, an’ ’e’s brought be-
fore me, an’ I remands ’im till we can git
another J.P., an’ that won’t be till Drawin’
Room comes back —’e’s the on’y other beak
’ere.”
That night Mourama was arrested, re-
manded for a month, and chained to the
gum log that served the settlement for gaol,
lock-up and stockade.
And next morning Jimmy McNair, having
left a letter for - Drawing Room, saddled up
his big chestnut, Arafura, and his two pack-
horses and jogged out ,of the township, going-
east and full of joy at the prospect of a new
track.
Mourama, chained up to the big tree, saw
him go, but only shut his eyes tightly for an
instant so that the flies buzzed a little be-
fore settling on him again.
True to the week. Drawing Room returned
to Pearler’s Bay. He left the boat in charge
of his Malay crew and strolled to the North
Australian Hotel, and enquired for McNair.
“Oh, Jimmy got restless after you’d been
a couple er days gorn, an’ he cleared out
day before yestiddy for this new Mount Mor-
gan of his.”
Drawing Room’s face clouded, and then
grew very grey.
“The fool! Oh, the fool! And Moura-
ma?”
“Oh, we run ’im in for abscondin’, an’
put ’im on the chain. ’E come before me,
an’ I remanded ’im for a month.”
“Good man!” said Drawing Room, joy-
ously. “Jimmy ’ll be as right as pie.”
“I think so,” replied the publican—“’e
got too good a start for Mourama.”
“Too good a start—why what d’ye, mean,
Ben?”
“Well, Jimmy left day before yesterday,
an’ Mourama didn’t get off the chain till
some time last night.”
Drawing Room’s face was very grey
again.
“My grief ! Escaped !”
“Yes —got a flint somehow, an’ wore, the
chain through. So they sent to Mount
Misery for the trackers.”
“Then he’s done. Trackers can’t save
McNair. He’s done; that Mourama has
waited too long for him now.”
“Now, don’t you worry,” said Ben
“Jimmy McNair’s not the man to go under
to a nigger.”
“Not to any nigger—or to most niggers—
but Mourama’s worn Jimmy down, and if a
caterpillar can get on a man’s nerves and
make him funk, a caterpillar can kill that
man. We die of what we’re most fright-
ened of.”
“Don’t fret,” said Ben again. “’Ave a
snifter.”
A “snifter” was Ben’s cure for every-
thing—a broken leg, or bad news, or the
death of a mate.
“Not a drop till I’ve seen Jimmy. Let’s
have the black horse, Ben, and 50 car-
tridges.”
“They’re yours all the time, Drawin’
Room. If yer bent on followin’ it’s no
good me chinnin’.”
He took the cartridges from a gun case
under the bar counter, called to his nigger
to bring round the big black gelding, and in
five minutes Drawing Room left, well
mounted and armed with a rifle and a big
Colt’s revolver.
“Where to-first ?” Ben called after him.
“Blacks’ camp—if Jimmy’s dead they’ll
drink misery,” replied James over his
shoulder.
At his own camp he stopped, dismounted,
saddled and bridled his own horse, mounted
again, and leading the spare horse, galloped
to the blacks’ camp.
“Thought so,” he said, as he dismounted
and tied the horses to a sapling. “Only the
old women left here —-all of the men gone
helping Mourama.”
He addressed a particularly old, thin,
and dirty gin who crouched over a little
fire smoking a short blacx pipe.
Drawung Room spoke very sternly.
“Where Mourama?”
“Me no bin know.”
“Where Mourama lubra Pinyarra?”
The old gin pointed to a mia-mia, and
Drawing Room James, hearing the rustling
of frightened flight, wasted no time. Dash-
ing around the mia-mia, he caught Pinyarra
naked as she was born, her child held to her
(Continued on next page.)


"Every Picture Tells a Story'
i*7
*S
BBS
sri
mm
s
Hi'it
M
4P
f
•>;s
FW
“If the Pain Is There-
in the Small off the Back «
Suspect Your Kidneys”
BURDENS LIFTED FROM BAD BACKS.
WEARY is the back that bears the burden of kidney ills. There’s no rest or peace for the man or woman who has a bad
back. The distress begins in early morning. You feel lame and not refreshed. It’s hard to get out of bed. It hurts
to stoop to tie your shoes. All day the ache keeps up. Any sudden movement sends sharp twinges through the
back. It is torture to stoop and straighten. At night the sufferer retires to toss and twist and groan. Backache is kidney
ache —a, throbbing dull aching in the kidneys. Plasters or liniments won’t do. You must get at the cause, inside.
Mr. E. R. Davis, Proprietor Somerset Hotel, Station Street, New-
town, Sydney, says :—“I suffered for so long with backache and weak
back that I am pleased to tell other sufferers what will cure these dis-
tressing ailments. My experience proves that Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are the cure. My back never ceased aching; and, besides the
pain and inconvenience, I was afraid of more serious symptoms of
kidney trouble developing. I tried remedy after remedy, but it was
only waste of time and money, and I was so disgusted with medicines
for the kidneys that I would not have tried Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills but a friend told me they had cured him, and strongly advised
me to use them. lam glad I did, for two bottles cured me. This did
not happen yesterday, but four years ago, and I am still free of the
backache. My lasting cure proves that Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills permanently cure backache and weak back.”
Sydney Proof
for
Sydney People,
Mrs. John Stettler, Sorrell Street, Parramatta, says : —“ At inter-
vals during the past nine or 10 years I have had trouble with my back.
This was undoubtedly caused by my kidneys. The pains were often
so bad that I could not sleep at night. I also had severe headaches.
I was nearly at death’s door, as my neighbors can tell you. I was a
great sufferer, and had been treated by doctors, and used medicines
without success. But Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have changed all
this. Since taking this remedy 1 have felt quite bright and well.
Before I took the pills I could not attend to the children, but now I
can attend to all my duties, and I am thankful for it.”
Mrs. Stettler confirms the above 11 years later :—“ I have heen
free from backache and every distressing symptom of kidney trouble,
and have been in good health ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me 11 years ago.”
j
Dtuurs
Backache
Kidney
h
At all Chemists and
Storekeepers, 2/9
per bottle; or from
Foster-Me Clellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
breast tightly as an oyster to its native rock,
Jora!” she screamed, biting at
ms hands.
James laughed, and carried her to the
norses, placed her astride of the bay, fast-
enea her to the stirrup-irons by straps
around her ankles—and as the child cried
e took it away from her and gave it to the
T ‘b® bre>
At that I inyarra stopped screaming,
reeling a sudden pity, brought the
child back to her, and she took it thank-
U r}ri an< ? Sll ently.
Then he mounted the black gelding, having
possession of the other horse’s bridle rein,
d Aft 6 ° tt rou §'b the waning afternoon.
•pm. a m “ e , or s ° , he looked furtively at
Ila ?> alra ’ a , l° un( l she was looking at him.
• 1- no bin hurtem you. I bin
°j r ? ma V
“\m,, U o ned ber fac l *^, ay ‘ ,
Monram no good feller longa you,” he
‘ n' ~ , , , ,
cm,, be T o y er , the child, and James
roTfi er - tbe bblck skin the lines of many
i . , ~ ,
„ ran T knockem all about.
heftpm ™ „wt n ; TT ! bin
Ptwo T der , wa( hly-
asked * tor Mourama bln beatem you?”'he
t • £ j
TT bin bnd me ta^k tonga Chow
t ■mu „ i '- loUram a bin beatem
Tnmoe TIT adc ty'
“Mmiramfnn 6 plunge then.
em?” B °° d fe er ‘ YoU bln track '
“When vou bin e-etem Monrnma vmi urn
killem?” Mourama you bin
“Yowi.”
“Yowi I bin trackem ”
. Now that she knew Mourama was to be
killed anyhow, whether she aided or not she
had no further doubt; but James showed no
desire to loosen the straps on her ankles.
By-and-bye she struck the track of
Mourama, signed to him to go faster, and
kent her eyes on the ground as the horses
togged along at four miles or so an hour.
* * * *
Fifty miles ahead Jimmy McNair sat in
the starlight bv his fire, his dog sleeping
contentedly in the shadow. McNair smoked
and smilefl to himself as a man does when
his thoughts are pleasant; for the big moun-
tain towering above him, and barring into
tails the river that flowed at his feet, was
Jimmy McNair’s “refractory ore proposition
worth seven ounces, every ton of it.” Occa-
TTrL u b , e bstened for the bells on his
riTT oTiT and the packers ; and, hearing
' j JV c being very satisfied with his pipe
Qi DQ r, t TrTT oUnta l- l i n v, tbe night, he went to
. eep veiy sweetly like a play-tired child.
* *
And 15 miles behind Jimmy McNair,
Mourama crouched between two giant ant-
.T b* s Inst for McNair’s blood struggling
with his superstitious fear of the darkness,
his ears listening for the dawn.
At the first blush of day he arose, picked
up the tracks of three unshod horses, and
moved onwards easterly—six feet of black
strength, intelligence and ferocity.
At dawn Drawing Room and Pinyarra
were also moving. They had picked up the
tracks long before, and three hours after
sunrise they entered a great volcanic gorge
whose rich soil produced grass man-high,
and flowers of crimson and blue and ivory
and gold. But these two had no eyes for all
this beauty; they were intent on a track
through the swathes of the high grass—as
plain as a ship’s wake,
* * * *
Jimmy McNair, having all the morning
prospected his golden mountain, with wan-
ing enthusiasm, returned to his camp at the
meridian. And the first thing Jimmy
McNair saw on nearing his camp were the
bodies of his two pack-horses. The slayer
had ca rved a great steak from the flank of
o ne of them,
McNair’s heart stood still for a moment.
He knew that unmounted but armed he was
equal to only 20 savages now. His hand
went to his revolver. Then another thought
possessed him and he dashed into his tent
for the Winchester. It was gone, although
he had hidden part of it in the bunk, and the
stock under a pack-saddle.
A sickly sweat poured over him. He knew
Mourama had escaped and tracked him. As
h e stood undecided there came a sound like
the sudden stroking of silk with a long
thumb-nail, and a spear ripped through the
t ent and out at the other wall.
McNair ran from the tent and looked
around. Not a tremble in the reeds, not a
splash in the river, not a movement breath-
ing i n the tall and windless grass.
Another spear came—out of the sky, it
seemed—and grazed McNair’s shin so that he
soon f e i t j n a dull, horribly-satisfied sort of
wa y that his boot was full of blood.
He looked at the silver wattles around him,
at the gorgeous wild f uc hsias, at the crimson
water lilies in the back-water—the only clear
space of the river where the reed had not
grown—and wondered what was the use of
fi§htin S- Why shouldn t men live in peace !
Rut he had killed the father of Mourama!
Well! Mourama’s father deserved it.
McNair shouted: “Hey, Mourama, you
black swine. Come out an’ shoot me.
Where’s the rifle, yer black cow?”
Then he remembered Mourama had the rifle
only. He, Jimmy McNair, had the cart-
ridges. When he thought of Mourama’s
blunder he laughed aloud and turned,
And there was Mourama at the edge of
the timber, his spear shipped in womerah
ready for throwing.
McNair’s revolver cracked. A spurt of
dark red showed on the left upper arm of
Mourama. He retreated to the timber, and
the revolver barked at him again.
For two hours that dance of death, that
grim play, went on in the setting of all this
beauty; the wounded black man hovering
round that oasis flanked by the timber and
the reeds; the bleeding white man jumping
in the silence when he heard the frenzied
beating of his own heart, his nerves crack-
ing to the horror of the suspense.
Mourama, having been as silent as the
lightning, vied the noise of thunder:
“Hi, Missa Mackenare, I bin talkem you.”
lie held up Ins hands to signify that he
was unarmed; but McNair knew that this
only meant that Mourama had the spear be-
tween his toes, and was dragging it through
the tall grass till he got near enough to be
sure of a kill.
McNair’s revolver .cracked again, and
Mourama retreated very suddenly to the
scrub.
Then Jimmy felt for cartridges for an-
other reload, and found none. Great fear
left him then. He began to weigh the
■chances.
Half an hour passed—Mourama made no
sign. McNair’s eyes and lips and brain
were baked with suspense and nerve-wrack.
The sun semed to be pecking at his brain.
He threw the revolver away, and called
through dry lips-
“Gome an’ wrastle, you black cow.”
Mourama advanced very delicately, his
left arm hanging limply. He smiled,
avoided McNair’s clumsy attempt to catch
him, and thrust the spear through the white
man’s lungs. McNair grasped the spear in
both hands as if to help it on its way,
grinned foolishly and fell, his hands still
upon the spear.
Drawing Room James and Pinyarra
reached the end of the tracks by mid-after-
noon, and Drawing Room knew that he was
too late. First the horses and the dis-
turbed camp; then, nearer the scrub, the
body of Jimmy McNair, his bald head shin-
ing in the sun.
“My poor mate!” said James, his heart
swollen nearly to bursting. “Now for Mour-
ama! Where Mourama, Pinyarra?”
“Him bin go way,” whimpered the little
gin. “Bimeby him bin come back plenty
black feller—they bin eatem Missa McNair.”
But they waited till dusk and no black
men appeared, though there were many
•cooees from the scrub, and smoke signals on
the hills.
James sought his tutor again.
“What for they no bin come —seen our
tracks?”
“Yowi. they bin see-em track; Mourama
plenty frikened.”
“Pinyarra, you bin sit down alonga here.
I bin sit down alonga scrub —altogether
quiet. Bimeby you bin cooee longa Mour-
ama. When Mourama come I bin shootem
quick feller.” He threw open the chamber
of the rifle, looked at it and snapped it
again.
“Mourama bin killem me,” she whim-
pered.
“I bin killem you spose’n you no cooee
longa Mourama. I killem Mourama before
he bin hurtem you.”
That settled it; she whimpered and agreed.
Drawing Room James crouched in the scrub
after sweeping the fire to a dead tree, which
burst into flame.
Pinyarra cooeed, and in the silence they
heard the far-off crackling of reeds. The
fire leaped and fell against the blue black-
ness of the night, and Pinyarra’s baby began
to cry.
The rustling in the reeds grew louder —
Mourama and two other black men advanced
into the glare of the fire.
Mourama, seeing Pinyarra, divined in a
thought the how and why of her transport
there; grunting his rage, he advanced with
his spear, and, when he was a few yards off
her, Drawing Room James shot him through
the body.
Another shot, and the late Mourama’s
companions performed prodigies in the way of
escape.
* * * *
Pinyarra ate a good meal from McNair’s
stores, and then slept the sleep of the full,
which is about a dozen times as sound
the sleep of the merely just. At dawn they
returned to Pearler’s Bay. Drawing Room
was very silent and sat heavy on his horse
I»ut Pinyarra, who had fastened a crimson
water-lily on each side of her horse’s head-
stall, and had also, with a fine eye for color
effect, put another lily in her own hair and
yet another into the grasping hand of her
swan-black baby, was very merry.
“My word. Missa Drawing Room, I bin
makem that feller Mourama plenty tired He
no bin beatem me plenty for long time. He
very saucy feller Mourama.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Universal Brothers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IIE Eool of the Family played with a
I fad.
And a knife, and deal, and a piece of
wire,
In the midnight hours, till they thought him
mad,
And they turned him out to a brute fur
hire.
And the years went by, and the world was
blind,
And he lived or starved, and they did noi
care —
Till a great invention was given mankind,
And the Family Fool was a. millionaire!
The Family Coward was thin and white,
More contemptible than the Family Fool—
A cur that would neither swear nor tight,
And they mocked in his shrinking face at
school.
The years went by, and a charge was made
That altered a nation’s destiny,
In the dust and blood of a Light Brigade—
And the leader was Colonel Kerr, Y.C.
The Family Dunce was a delicate lad,
And he could not spell, and he scarce could
write,
And they deemed him an idiot born, or mad,
For he’d dream and dream by the fire at
night:
And the years went by and a song was writ,
And the music was made by the “Idiot’s"
friend —
And armies of Liberty marched to it
And won through a hundred defeats in the
end.
* * * *
The Wise Man gave to the Brave Man's
cause
His money and brains for war or peace.
And the Poet he sang of juster laws
That come and come as the war-druius
cease.
The red, red flags for a while are furled
And stored away with the guns and tents:
And the Brothers are sleeping all over the
world,
And under a thousand monuments.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


The
m
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
jh
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
s—No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
atest Standard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
MADE in 31b. and 61b, weights ;in sizes 2§"x 54", and 4" x 64" •
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively’
it has a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move-® glittering mirror fiuish-and, over all, our guarantee,
ihoroughly efficient for both light and heavy work; simple, yet
strong: clean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 301 b.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
W. G. WATSON & CO., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
v 7; w SSi:n!KSE=:3B!B * effi:2S:;K:^^
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials
WHY WORRY ABOUT YOUR LUGGAGE?
When Travelling: by Rail or Boat
jrtr a carc * l|e f° re starting-, or ’phone us upon landin'* and vve will do the rest HTTP
AE „ K MODERATE and oar SERVICE UNEqSaILedV Wo „ra<>ve SEE
SANDERS,SUTTON & WHITEHEAD Ltd.,
Corner King and Kent Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Phones: Central 476, 2028,4012,1973, 2526; City 1290,1617. Contractors for N.S.W. Covt. Railways.
N^B.— Furniture, Luggage, Merchandise, etc., packed and stored.
ii
FARMER’S FRIEND” QJL
j
2 horsepower
•'Farmer’s Friend ’
Portable.
engines w<
ON OIL OR GAS.
Guaranteed
2 Years.
Also Wood-
Sawing, Chaffcutting
and Pumping Outfits,
4, 8, or 12-h.p. complete,
Portable or Stationary.
2-h.p,
3 „
4 „
6 „
“ ft
3 „
4
6 „
* ..
Stationary,
f*
»»
Portable,
99
»>
• •
If
£25,
35.
45.
55.
85.
32.
46.
56.
96.
128.
-Terms:
99
91
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
ON TERMS
AH complete, with Tanks and
Pipes, f.o.b. Sydney. You have
no fittings to buy—everything
is supplied by us.
Larger Engines at propor-
tionate Prices and Terms.
Write for Catalogue.
8
49 York Street, SYDNEY
339 Collins St.,
£ooH Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
you find yourself sunering from any complaint likeiy to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a laddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about you self, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set aboqt to remove
them. Remember that you may keep iree from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Btecham’s Pills. A very great nun ber of,the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
Tafce
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Beccbam’s fills.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price Ulh (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St-, Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. FRi d. McWILIUm. ,Manager.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS,
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
1 am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of. Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and. considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoving a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This led him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair
Since then, the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, 1 have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound 1 hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to - say it is the only hair grower in the world—-I am
not interested in decrying others—but Ido assert
chcapost S tle m ° St rellable ’ and in end by far the
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamns
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower
St hn t° r s V d n Burleigh ’ Dept R 14 > 107 Castlereagh
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
atlona of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
He Enas Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
hg
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the sam<
diseases withou
inconvenience
In
48 hours
r ;
Each Capsule bears the name SW
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
11/ EACH POST FREE
, Quality Not Better
| in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
1 rOREKEEPJERS 4 fOBACCOHISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMADLTS INDIAN CIEARFTTFS
Difficulty Jn expectoration. Asthma, NerronsConehs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
LINSi'iBD COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds,. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing-.
riIHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDIN i WALL.
Write for our Catalogu or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen S f reet.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
Combined Electricity and
Destructor Undertaking's
are becoming general. The “HEENAN” Patent Is the last thing in
Refuse Destruction—
PAYS FOR ITSELF IN A FEW YEARS.
('Full particulars on application to
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.,,
Fibro-Ccment
WHAT I» IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asliestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2Hn. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN—
~m. FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
Motor Driven
‘BON ACCORD'
STEEL LINED
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
For PULPING
SLIMES, TAIL*
INGS, etc. Also
for DREDGING
ORES, GRAVEL,
SAND & STONES
j
“BON ACCORD”
Centrifugal Pumps.
HIGH EFFICIENCY.
For Sand Pumping, Sewerage, Salvage, Condensing.
Irrigating, Draining, DocK Pumping, Mine Pumping, etc.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd., 82 Pitt St.,Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&C«j &Ci
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
(MEPHAN FERGUSON
I ROBERT SHAND
Head Office and Works:
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Central
jh
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED
ELECTRICAL and GENERAL ENGINEERS,
Have Removed Offices & Workshops to 30Tj 309, 311 KOflt St-
: . i
(near Erskine
Street),
Sydney
hg
' m r.
mt
MM
im
■ ,y.
Adapted for All Services.
Exhausting Refuse from Woodworking Plants.
Ventilating Factories and Public Buildings.
Mine Ventilation.
Forced and Induced Draft for Boilers.
Supplying Blast to Cupolas, Furnaces and Forges.
M -
usting S
FULL IN FORM A TION and PRIOBS
ON A RRLICA TION.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY N.S.W.
jhĝhjĥ
BORING MACHINES
Nos. 4 & 5 in Stock for immediate delivery with foil equipment.
NOTE.—No. 5 Machine drilled 564 feet, and made 4 moves in 74/hours.
No. 5 for 1000 Feet.
- DOWNIE DEEP WELL PUMPS.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
263 George Street, SYDNEY;
525 CoJlins Street, MELBOURNE.
no sz osr
