

e EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION-
ÜbWAK o WrllcrKY
R. G. WATKINS & 00„
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Minins' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
M'
Diesel
Oil Engines.
Very Economical.
Uses Crude or Unrefined Oil.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELANO, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide
■
fiadleysQrlent (jotel.
PIONEEfS
LEATHER BELTING »V
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowioi & Son 9 Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
dfs
Take it back.
Pine-Apple Brand
df
CHUBB’S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine T ablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
sd
11
sjg:
3E
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets aots most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prixe Medals.
aJUU
H&*iou /bzo. 9 aLU '9
?c
. »&> <\N > * ©V
v 5 4? V v t?- </■ +_s
h
4
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
j&hSiSSBf
WORTHINGTON PU
FOR ALL
m
IN
Send for Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
From One Year to Another
MALTHOID ROOFING
will prove a Perfecft Roofing.
WIND—RAIN—STORM —HEAT —COLD CANNOT AFFECT NOR INJURE.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CITALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.—D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE 4 CLYDE,
NGINEERING
COMPANY L™
fs
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY \J°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
KUPPER LAGER
df
i*
is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical man
of HeMdon Spa. HELIBON SPA is Nature's Eliminant.
BEWHBRST 8 KALLORAN, Ltd..
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 1628.]
[Thursday, April 27, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WORK HANDBOOKS,
Each book on the subjects mentioned contains explicit instructions
illustrations of the details for carrying - out the work.
and many
PRICE Is. each, posted Is. 2d. A Splendid Series for Amateurs and Young Tradesmen.
Bamboo Work, Basket Work, Beehives and Appliances, Bent Iron Work, Bootmaking' and Mending, Buildimr Model
Boats, Clsv Modelling,, Cycle Building, Decorative Designs, Domestic Jobbing, Dynamos and Electric Motors
Electric Bells, Electro Plating, Engraving Metals, Class Working, Glass Writing, etc., Harness Making House
Decoration, Knotting and Splicing, Leather Working, Bicycle Building, Mounting and Framing
Pletnres, Optical Lanterns, Photo. Cameras, Photographic Chemistry, Photography, Pianos, Pumps and Rams
Rustic Carpentr.v; Sia’ddlery, Sewing Machines, Signs, Tickets and Posters, Smith's Work, Tailoring Taxidermy’
Telescope Making, Terra-Cotta Work, Tinplate Work, Upholstery, Violins, Window Blinds, Wood Finishing.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bacterieidally as is creosote.” ‘ 4
M.
m
b
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in a}]
The RED PAGE
[This seems to be a new form. The
sestina on which it is based is too clumsy
for English verse; but something might be
done with the Sestinette. If there are any
triers, £1 Is. will be paid for the best
verse on the above model, sent in before the
7th June.]
SESTINETTE.
My Lady in her garden threw away
A full-blown rose of richly vivid red
That matched the blood that from my
heart had bled,
What time my Lady fair had said me “Nay,”
When I had asked her for her love alway,
“That she could only lend it me instead.”
That she would onlv lend it me instead,
Was tragedy enow for me. Alway
I wanted her, nor did believe her “Nay”
Until she wrung my soul, when therefrom
bled
My love, as richly hued as that rose red
My Lady in her garden threw away.
My Lady in her warden threw away
A rose as red as from my heart had bled
All love alway, what time she told me
That she could only lend it me instead.”
vie.
E. PERUGINI.
THE OLD TREE.
This is the tree ’neath which we sat together
In the pleasant summer weather long ago ;
In its branches green and gold the birds sang dear
and bold.
While the fair blue sea broke into foam below.
Now is the time of winter, and all the birds are
silent,
Grey sky above, a greyer sea below.
Listless I sit alone, thy tired eyes idly watching
Brown leaves on rain-soaked earth blow to and
fro.
O I know that in the spring the birds will blithely
mu Sing ’
The tree be green, and winter cease to reign;
But what spring has power to cast the old-time
spell, or bring
Lost Helen to my longing arms again?
N.S.W.
M. R. HUNTER.
ACROSS THE STREET.
Across the street a hundred hammers ring,
Day after day, unceasing is their chime;
A common sound of common daily toil,
Yet to my woman’s ear it is sublime.
Why is it that, above all other sounds,
I seem to hear one hammer’s steady beat?
And to my mind there is but one strong form
Bent o’er his labor, out across the street?
And why, when toil seems hard and life
seems wrong,
Should I but catch that hammer’s steady
ring,
Why does my heart with sudden lightness
rise
To see fresh hope and joy in everything?
’Tis love that calls me, calls me all day long,
Over the busy noise and dusty heat:
Dear God! I thank Thee for the happy sound
Of just one hammer, out across the street.
VIC.
MINNIE M. DOUGHENEY.
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS—I.
John Arthur Barry
When a man has written a good deal about
this country, and has lived in it for a num-
ber of years, he is justly claimed as an Aus-
tralian writer, no matter where he happened
to be born. The next best thing to being
born in Australia is being born in'a place
like Devon, which gave Drake and many
famous men to naval history. So J. A.
Barry began well by arriving in this life at
Torquay, in the year 1850. He went the
proper Devonshire way, by taking to ship-
board at the age of 14. Since then he has
had experiences on sea and land that fall
to the lot of few who write, and further on
is printed his own brief summary of his
career to date.
Barry’s family in England knew the
Lockwood Iviplings, and when young Rud-
yard came from India to go to school, an
acquaintance began which resulted, years
afterwards, in Barry’s first book being
launched from a London publisher’s with
a ribbon of Kipling’s verse streaming from
the fore-peak. (A nautical simile comes
naturally after reading so many of Barry’s
yarns.) The book was Steve Brown’s
Bunyip (1893), reprinted six times in Eng-
land, and issued again in a new edition by
the N.S.W. Bookstall Co. in 1905. It was
followed by In the G r cat Deep (1895), The
Luck of the Native Born (1898: reprinted
by N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 1908), A Bon of
the Sea (1899), Against the Tides of Fate
(1899), Red Lion and Blue Star (1902)
and Sea Yarns (1910). Old and New Syd-
ney (1903) represents material grubbed out
of the records, and/ dressed up to make a con-
tinuous history of the city. It was by far
the hardest job of the lot, for, to all good
yarn spinners, the writing of formal history
is something like Writing in a straight-jacket.
All save one of the books above mentioned
contain odd lengths of yarn. In two cases,
The Luck ' of the Native Born and A Bon
of the Sea, it runs as a continuous narra-
tive from cover to cover. These are not
novels; the plots are too slight, and the
characterisation weak: they are episodes
through which the hero moves ,to his des-
tined end, and could be resolved into ele-
ments similar to the short stories in the
other books.
The main thing about all the yarns is
that things happen in them, and happen
quickly. They comprise a large assort-
ment of mining and droving adventures,
piracy, salvage, wrecks, murders, and hilar-
ious comedy. The grim tragedy of “Sojur
Jim” is a few pages from the amusing
“Books at Barracaboo”; the ghastly “Red
Warder of the Reef” rubs shoulders with thJe
comical fight between the Red Lion and
Blue Star captains.
Barry is most at home when his yarns are
at sea, and one deduces from them that he
has met more good captains than bad, that
the men of to-day are as capable as those
of the past, and that it is a great thing to go
to sea, but better to leave it. He does not
attempt “fine writing”; and his yarns de-
pend upon incident rather than style. In
them all will be found a hearty spirit in
vigorous action, and his books have an hon-
orable place in the small company of good
sea stories.
The Author now answers “a call” :
“What did you eome to sea for, you d—d
fool?” was a question often put to me dur-
ing the course of my first voyage, by ship-
mates fore and aft the swift little Australian
trader in which I partly served my time.
And no matter what the reply might be,
it was capped by“ The man who’d come
to sea for pleasure ’d go to Hell for pas-
time.” +
And, certainly, the first voyage was some-
what of a nightmare. But rather than
confess it when one got ashore again among
admiring friends and schoolfellows—gilt
buttons shining on the smart uniform, houser
T. A. BARRY.
flag flying on the goid-braided cap—one
would suffer worse tortures than ever fell
to the lot of green sea-apprentice.
This was in the early ’6o’s; and I was
just 14 when a pig of a second mate, as soon
as I set foot on board, gave me my first
, taste of “a life on the ocean wave” by de-
manding—“ What in Hell’s blazes I was
gawping at?” Adding, as he dipped my
hands into a tar-bpcket, that —“Gentlemen’s
sons on board this packet ain’t no bet-
ter than blackfeller’s dawgs.”
And so we apprentices—“owners’ hard
bargains,” as the men called us—found it.
But the next voyage, in another vessel, was
a pleasanter experience. The third, in my
own estimation, turned me out a hardened
salt. Then, tired of the somewhat monoton-
ous Australian trade, and dreaming of the
‘ Tropics,” I changed over into the same
firm’s West Indian vessels. Rum, sugar,
and molasses —Savannah le Mar, Montego
Bay, and various other ports. Shockingly
slow work on the old droghers, after the
dashing passages made by the beautiful clip-
pers that we ran to and from the. Antipodes
with the first clips of the season.
“Yellow Jack” presently gave me more
“Tropics” than I had bargained for, and
sent me home, just out of my time, for a
spell among the Devonshire orchards.
To China in a “flier” was the next trip-
third of her. Ocean-racing with the early
teas; mending sails by lamplight, and bend-
ing them in a gale of wind ; carrying on in
weather that other ships liove-to in ; leaving
a wake of stuns’l-booms from the River Min
to the Western Islands. Wet, always wet;
decks a-wash. A double crew standing by
to make and take in sail as the big yacht
roared _ across the seas, smothered in seeth-
ing brine. A thousand pounds to the first
ship home ! We came second in one of the
great historic races.
Sometimes a shipmate of those distant
years turns up, and we drink to the memory
of “Ariel,” “Sir Lancelot,” and all their
noble, vanished company; and to the health
of the splendifl'Aailormen who ran them.
Then followed a long spell in Far Eastern
waters on craft of various kinds and of
varying degrees of iniquity, carrying any-
thing from coolies to “general,” and not sel-
dom “contraband.”
By this time I had passed for “first.” But
I never stood on the order of my going—
was as often in the fo’c’s’le as on the poop.
Thus, one day, ' ilyblown” Singapore, I
shipped A.B. on a barque bound for Ade-
laide. She turned out the hungriest sort
of “limejuicer” conceivable. To appease
our clamorous bellies we made a hole in heir
cargo as big as The Bulletin office. On
arrival at the Semaphore, to escape conse-
quences, the same night we pulled ashore
and disappeared into a mangrove swamp,
turning up later on at the Echunga Dig-
gings, and riddling “Sailor Gully” with
shafts of grotesque design. For a few
months it was good fun and bare “tucker.”
Tnen the sea began calling.
Early in the 70’s, after several voyages
to South Africa and the East Indies, I
picked myself up at Brisbane, mate of a
small British ship. The Palmer breaking
out, I left her quite informally, and jour-
neyed up-country with several other ven-
turesome sailormen —some, of whom left
their bones there. And in due course I
crawled back to Cooktown with the sur-
vivors, dead broke and half-blind with sandy
blight.
A few years among the South Sea Islands
and on the coast, and then for the second
time I strayed into the bush, and entered on
a new phase of existence, ranging from
“humping bluey,” droving, and boundary-
riding, to managing a station. “Coffee in
the morning and no fore-royal” bow. All
night in and “full and plenty.” No more
keeping of dreary watches; no more claw-
ing one’s way aloft buffeted by wind, and
drenched with rain. No “bucko” mates and
hazing skippers ; no running foul of hungry
hookers, where the diet consisted mainly of
weevils and limejuice!
It was in the Bush that the making of
stories began. I was a sheep overseer at
the time; and one day, taking a certain
titled personage to inspect a run, the two
of us escaped a bad bush fire by the skin of
our teeth. A letter to literary folk at home
relating the incident, probably, somewhat
embroidered, found its way in guise of a
descriptive article into the columns of a big
London daily newspaper.
And presently a cheque, equal to several
months’ salary, made a simple sailorman
think that a glittering and easy way to
wealth illimitable had suddenly opened out
before him.
Thus, as time passed, many Australian
newspapers, including, of course, The Bul-
letin, heard from me. And, on the whole
—although not financially following the
London daily’s example to any considerable
extent —they treated me very well indeed,
and printed, and paid for, heaps of sea and
bush stories. So did the English and
American magazines. Of some British pub-
lishers, perhaps, the least said the better.
Nevertheless, they have produced seven
books of mine.
For a good many years the settled groove
of uneventful city journalism has claimed
me. But at intervals there comes a desire
to put more sea into printed words. A
continuous story, South Sea Sailormen, is
now on offer in the London markets.
* 1 +
In The Pearl and the Octopus (G. Rob-
ertson and Co.), A. G. Stephens has re-
printed from two of his earlier books and
some newspapers a collection which he aptly
describes as “exercises in prose and verse.”
There are two stories in which fantastic
themes are cleverly handled, though not
cleverly enough to make them convincing.
The best part of the book is in verse, and
for sheer smartness the exercises in tricky
forms, and the parodies of Lawson, Bren-
nan and other Australian poets would en-
title the writer to high marks. An estimate
of Parkes, “our mightiest Son of Thunder,”
is neatly stated, and a sonnet called “The
Last Camp” attracts attention by its quiet
note of pathos. Most of the verses gleam
for a moment like soap-bubbles ; they shine,
but do not sing. Perhaps the finest thing
in the collection —not cleverest, but sincerest
—is the end-piece, “Antsean,” from which
two stanzas are quoted—
So when weary of errors and misconceptions
I go where the Bush fronts grand to the
sky;
And my small weak life is merged in the
Whole,
And the soul of me’s lost in the general
Soul,
And bland airs blow from this hot, tired I
All its worries, and griefs, and pigmy decep-
tions.
And the Bush bends closer and holds my
hands:
And her noons or her nights yearn low to
listen
When I tell her all in her inmost shrine,
And receive absolution for follies o’ mine;
Her mouth may smile, but her grave eyes
glisten—
She is my lover, and understands.
4O
Ivan A. Rosenblum, of Melbourne,
made a mistake in writing The Drama
Eternal (Elliot Stock) as a story in
verse. A narrative poem runs the risk
of dull patches, even when the story,
as such,, is a good one. In this case the
story” is of the flimsiest—a dream which
was real, and a girl who is unreal, with a
philosopher and a Voice making remarks.
The blank verse flows easily, but without
the imaginative lift which would carry it
over the prosiness of the subject matter.
Yet his philosopher gave the author some
idea of what poetry is like:—
Knowledge is twice a power: it adds a charm
lo Beauty, and hath its own grace as well.
Science reveals new secrets in a rose;
But Truth and Poetry are sun and flower
Poetry is not the art of facile phrase
Mere metrical felicity, nor trick
Of dainty syllables. It needs no verse,
Singling in artful rhyme. But it demands
Ihe passionate flow of words sincerely sweet
The billowy tidal wave of bursting thought
Rushing resistless to eternity—
(Hath not the ocean form? Hath not the
sky?)— /
Rosenblum has no mean facility in turning
out melodious lines, and justifies the belief
that he may become a flourishing minor
bard.
A book of verses by Miss Dorothea Mac-
kellar, of Sydney, is announced for publica-
tion in Melbourne. Some of her contribu-
tions to this paper and the London Spec-
tator are of fine quality, and if the book
contains a few like the following it will be
well worth buying:—
Sam Walter Foss, the genial Yankee poet,
died at Somerville, Mass., on the 26th Feb-
ruary. He had had a rough time in youth;
started on the Inky Way at the age of 25,
and stayed on it till 40, when he dropped
into a public librariansliip which he held
up to the time of his death at 53. A back-
yard Longfellow, whose homely wit ranged
him with Whitcomb Riley, he enjoyed con
siderable popularity in his lifetime. Space
will be found for some quotations next week.
Cabled that William Butler Yeats has
been granted a Civil List pension. What
was it that Tennyson said to the poets?—
Dosn’t thou ’ear old Peg’sus’ legs as they
canters awaay?
Poverty, poverty, poverty —that’s what I
’ears ’em saiiy.
* * * *
Amongst the common objects of the sea-
shore which are full of mystery, when
properly considered, are the round pieces of
stone known as pebbles. They had not re-
ceived adequate attention until E. J. Dunn,
F.G.S., of Melbourne, took them up, and the
result oi his exhaustive study is a book —
Peebles (Geo. Robertson and Co.). It might
be thought by the careless that there are no
other uses for pebbles than to make “ducks
and drakes” for idle boys, or missiles for
the Dunn has discovered many other
uses in ancient times and present; he* dwells
upon the variety of their beautiful markings,
explains how pebbles came into being, and
how they have been carried from one place
to another; and he adds 76 plates to illus-
trate his discourse. So far as mortal man
can do it, Dunn has said all there is to say
about pebbles.
CORE OF MY HEART.
The love of field and coppice,
Of green and shaded lanes,
Of ordered woods and gardens
Is running through my veins;
Strong love of grey-blue distance,
Brown streams, and soft, dim skies,
I know, but cannot share it,
My love is otherwise.
I love a sunburnt country,
A land of sweeping plains,
Of ragged mountain ranges,
Of droughts and flooding rains ;
I love her far horizons,
I love her level sea,
Her beauty and her terror —
The wide brown land for me!
The stark white ring-barked forests,
All tragic ’neath the moon,
The sapphire-misted mountains
The hot gold hush of noon;
Green tangle of the bushes,
Where lithe lianas coil,
And orchids deck the tree-tops,
And ferns the crimson soil.
Core of my heart, my country!
Her pitiless blue sky,
When sick at heart around us
We see the cattle die.
And then the grey clouds gather,
And we can bless again
The drumming of an army—
The steady, soaking rain.
Core of my heart, mj r country!
Land of the rainbow gold !
For flood and fire and famine
She pays us back threefold.
Over the thirsty paddocks,
Watch, after many days,
The filmy veil of greenness,
Tnat thickens as you gaze.
An opal-hearted country,
A wilful lavish land:
And you who have not loved her,
You will not understand.
Though earth holds many splendors,
Mherever I may die,
I know to _ what brown country
My homing thoughts will fly.
DOROTHEA MACKELL[?].


Jl
XL
TT'-r.
I
DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
The “Olga.’*—Cravenette Raincoat, double-breasted, full Sac
back,icoat sleeve with turn back cuff ; Colors—-Navy, lawn,
Reseda, Grey ...
No, 4600—New Garbinette Twill Raincoat Raglan sleeve,
t ‘ i ‘ singleibreasted, in new Bronzd Shades 0n1y...
Also No. 4539, but has coat sleeve
Also No. 4501, style as No. 4600, but in finer quality, with faint
stripe, shades Light and Dark Mole
The “ Challenge.”—New Garbinette Twill Raincloak,
double-breasted, swing back, coat sleeves finished with strap,
in Bronzy shade only ... . ... ...
’ Also in Fawn and Bronze shades in Striped Tweed effects, double-
breasted to fasten high at neck, Raglan sleeves; •“ Zilfa ” ...
Also “ Tacar,” a similar garment, but single-breasted ...
The “ Harlech.”—New Showerproof Coat, of Striped Tweed,
light weight and smart appearance, in Reseda, Dark Green
and Dark Grey ...
Or with coat sleeve in Brown and Grey 0n1y...
No. 3830—Girl’s Paletots, Diagonal Serge, smartly trimmed with
Velvet Pipings and large Smoked Pearl Buttons ; Colors —
Navy, Brown, Myrtle and Cardinal. Sizes —27m., 19/6;
30m., 20/6 ; 33m., 21/6 ; 36m., 22/6 ; 39m., 23/6 ;
42m., 24/6 ; 45in., 25/6 ; 48m., 26/6 ; S 1 ’ 11 -*
No. 3833 —Girl’s Paletots, in light-weight all-wool Chevron Serge,
in latest style, finished at waist with belt, box pleat down
centre back, finished smart revers, in pretty shades,
Brown, Dark Green and Navy. Sizes— 29m., 20/= ;
3oin., 21 /=; 33^ n -> 22/= ; 3611),, 23/=; 39’ n -> 24/= ;
42m., 25/=; 45in., 26/= •; , -48 m., .27/=; siin.,
No. 625 Girl’s Coat and Skirt Costume, smart and up-to-date,
in fine quality Serge ; Coat seam fitting, trimmed Military
Braid, Revers outlined with Velvet, Panel Skirt outlined at foot
with Braid ; Colors—Black and Navy. Size only, 36m. skirt,
No. 170—Children’s Red Riding Hood Cloaks. *
Sizes—2oin., 5/3 ; 22in., 6/3 ; 24m., 7/3 ; 26m., S/3
No, 917—Norfolk Coat and Skirt Costume, Navy Serge, in light
and heavy-weight material, 7-gored skirt, finished foot deep
, hem, four rows stitching, suitable for girls from 14 to 16 years.
( Sizes —sin., 25/6 ; 6in., 26/6 ; 7in., 27/6 ; Bin., 28/6 ; 9in., 29/6
24/6
33/6
33/6
43/6
28/6
24/6
%\ /:
39/6
34/6
27/6
28/=
Anthony Horderns * Green Room.
THE ever-increasing popularity of the celebrated Green
Room at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM is an
encouraging factor in our desire to maintain the
ideal of TOP QUALITY at BOTTOM PRICE for
Fashionable Goods, as well as Family Drapery, for which
we are renowned throughout Australia. The prevailing
modes are faithfully presented in our WINTER FASHION
PORTFOLIO, which illustrates the New Skirts, Smart
Tailor-made Costumes, Charming Evening Gowns,
Stylish Blouses, the latest Millinery and Fashionable
Footwear. Write for a copy, posted free on request, and
reap the full benefit of our unique system of Spot
Cash trading.
We. can supply everything wanted to carry on the
business of life, whether that business be run in single,
or double harness; and our immense store, with its
magnificent stock of the Worlds Choicest Commodities,
offers attractions not to be found elsewhere.
fs
Winter.
©OATS
unci'
COSTUMES
T
famous
|ow^<pmce^
&
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
AuU Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, (Sydney
Pi;rv, F f U 11 Tj Pa uu CU larS n ® u PP respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
a ., e e ?i anc * Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
wi h its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen ana
George Streets, Brisba
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism,
and
Clairvoyance
An Illustrated
Guide for the Amateur,
describing the various
methods adopted by
professors both before
and after Mesmer, and
showing- how the mystic
power may be developed.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Rook of Coin Tricks,
X/-. Wrestling, by Prank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
df
MARVELLOUSLY SIMTLE 1
SiMn,Y Marvellous !
Multiplying 1 and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the finjrers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Flve Card
Triek. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Above prices include postape to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Tint Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
L A I T LAROLA
mvdiuauiK
forfheSKlN
in HOT 1
or COLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
and TAN.
StETH AM’s
Lait
wro
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAViNG
TRADE MARKS
Jr To obtain the full pleasure of
Cycling it is necessary to have the
utmost confidence in your Bicycle, and
there is nothing that creates that con-
fidence more than by possessing a
Cycle built of
GENUINE B.S.A.
CYCLE FITTINGS
These fittings are manufactured by the
famous B.S. A. Co., of the very finest material
and are rigidly gauged and tested at each
stage of operations before receiving the
hall mark of quality : the three piled rifles.
Th; new Australasian issue of the B.S.A Hand-
book tells you on which part of the fitting
these trade marks are to be found, and also
describes the Eadie Coaster, the Eadie Two-
J Speed, etc. 4 Send a Post Card for a
free copy to
D. Y. RENNIE
Representing the B.S.A. Cp. Ltd
6 Stock Exchange Building ,
MELBOURNE
V..
ANTHONY HORDERNS* UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern (Q, Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
•sidiouUfj jßnjnw siff uo aoaajnssy aft 7 joj
|Bn}n|N
’6fBl aaHsnansa
uui|Bj;sn\f
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RAtls OFINTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan durinp: any year, without notice or payment of an'v fine"
Dirkctors— The Hon. A. W Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman • Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns .M.L.C : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. Winchcombe, M.L.C.-
HEAD OWTCg-il'gm STREET. SYDnI?' *“ A “ U *'’ : Elch " a T *'g;
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat ?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing?
5. A Cold in Your Head?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9- “Only a Bit of a Cold?"
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
"A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong Vic.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
A Leading Australian Public
School Teacher Recommends
CLEMENTS TONIC
Mr. A. H. Dakin, was formerly in the Government Education
Department, N.S.W., as chief schoolmaster on board the training ship
“Sobraon.” Thousands of Australian lads owe their scholastic attain-
ments and successes in life to the careful educational and moral training
received at his hands. Mr. Dakin writes of Clements Tonic thus :
“ 29 Lyttleton Street, North Sydney,
“ CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“As a- brain and brain medicine I recommend
Clements Tonic as being superior in my opinion to any
other medicine that can be bought for money. 1 have
often suffered from nervous headache coupled with that
condition of being run-down and used up, so common
among those whose occupations are of a clerical
character. Never have 1 found Clements Tonic to
fail to produce a perfect condition of nerve health.
“(Signed) A. H. DAKIN.”
Men in all ranks of life and professions praise Clements Tonic. Solicitors,
clergymen, journalists, editors, and business men and women recommend it. It
keeps the blood pure, the heart sound, the nerves strong and the stomach healthy.
Send for it if you have Loss of Sleep, Sick Headache or Indigestion. All Chemists
and Stores sell it throughout Australia. Send for it and health at the same time.


Do
You
sdf
sd
Then treat your hair well. See
that it is properly fed. Growth
of every kind demands proper
food. Starved hair splits at the
ends, turns prematurely gray,
keeps short and dry. Then feed
your hair. Feed it with proper
food, a regular hair-food. Feed
it with Ayer’s Hair Vigor. Thus
help nature all you possibly can
toward giving you rich, heavy,
luxuriant hair. Ask your doctor
about your hair and about Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. Follow his advice.
Ayer’s Bair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S« A<
fs
TEH DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Tree. All charges Prepaid to your
’ Port direct from our Factory. Hijiest-
grate British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
i Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
l Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
ILATEST
MODELS
£3 m IQ to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. Write
at once, using sufficient postage.
for Free Art Catalogue and ou *
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 280. LIVERPOOL*
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Ajjent, 157 Clarence St., Sydney.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
GOLCRYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a
df
Jr Always
f Reliable !
Eley Cartridges
offer a degree of
accuracy and relia-
■F bility which the lead-
W ing sportsmen of the
w world have not been
I slow to appreciate.
To Specify ’ELEY’ when buying
cartridges is the easiest and quickest
way of ensuring complete satisfaction
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Above is shown the
Eley’44 Winches-
ter Central l-'ire Rifle
t artridge. *
'I he Eley • Univer-
sal.’ for Shot Guns, is
known throughout the
world as a reliable
black - powder car-
tridge.
’Eley Smokeless’is
the popular low-
priced cartridge.
Eley ’22 Rim Fire
Cartridge, black &
smokeless powder
Of Gunmakers
and Dealers
liley Bros.
' Ltd.
Loudon.
E LEY
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
MOSS
IRISH
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BonningTonV' of 40 years fame.
Bonningiws
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults Or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from- harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
&
BOHN'
MOSS
IRISH
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
sd
fs
IF you wish to possess that feminine mag-
netism that draws men and women, you
must possess figure, and a good bust—
firm and well rounded —is the first essen-
tial ; well-rounded arms, a nicely-turned neck,
and a full (even if plain) face will, combined,
give you an advantage socially over your
pretty-faced but scrawny-figured friends.
It is the refreshing firmness and delightful
fulness of the feminine form that captivates,
and it is the woman who is most correctly
CAN REALLY DEVELOP
YOUR BUST
A fiat chest , with scrawny arms and shoulders,
greatly counterbalance all the effect • a pretty
face can give.
developed who monopolises the endearments
of the opposite sex.
By following our advice, thousands of weak,
thin, run-down, anaemic women, positively
devoid of the semblance of bust-develop-
ment, many suffering from functional inter-
nal disorders, constipation, biliousness, weak
stomach, aching back, and some of the various
other complaints that make women miser-
able, have been restored to robust health,
and now possess full, well-rounded, cor-
rectly-developed figures.
Let us tell you—absolutely free of charge
—how you may accomplish the same result.
Send a 2d. stamp for FREE TRIAL SAMPLE
of Treatment and full particulars. Write
to-day.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
5 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY,
corner Castlereagh and Market Streets. [IBO4
AT BREAKFAST TIME
or supper time Horlick’ s Malted Milk
is a delicious substitute for tea, coffee and
cocoa. It is prepared
in a minute and requires
no cooking.
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists and
Stores. Samples and
Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney. N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted
Milk Co., Slough,
Bucks., England.
MILK
dfs
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease Irom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW co.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily and without discomfort.
Jt’takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to* tempt death by Heart Disease,
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET— “The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney. [i
£1573118(9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
£.r." The Wayback Series.
Watermans
(Ideal)
FouritaMbn
4.
The
Pen
7
that
Does
the Work.
There is only one Fountain Pen which
gives universal satisfaction - Waterman s
Ideal. It is the simplest and most efficient
Fountiin Pen made. Watermans Ideal
starts to write immediately the nib touches
the surface of the paper. It is clean muse,
does not blot, will not leak. Nibs supplied
to suit any hand.
12/6 and upwards. From Stationers,
Jewellers, &c., throughout the World.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD-
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
Ask to see Waterman's Ideal Safety Pens
and Pump-filling Pens.
df
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life and Myself.
Life and myself were ever friends,
And though in some respects it fails me,
Its gifts most amply make amends;
It still abides when woe assails me;
And I would be a graceless debtor
Did I not try to make Life better.
For Life is ill, so some folks say,
And sore oppressed with toil and trouble;
Yet when in joyous ways we stray,
We prick its illness like a bubble:
Life’s ills —they’ve often joys behind them —
Are mostly with the folk who find them.
They gird at Life who never knew
How glorious is simply Irving,
I pity all that cheerless crew
Who miss the bliss Pa Time is giving;
The joy of life in warm veins seething;
A pulse of joy in simply breathing.
Dear Life! that fills my glowing veins
With warmth and "sense Of pulse and feeling,
That stays with me through wounds and pains,
To swiftly give my sorrow healing,
There is no gift that you can give
As glorious as the gift to live!
N.s.w.
HAMER.
The Silent Land.
Were I as dead as Solomon, Stylites-like and calm
I’d rest my graveyard-column on, and sing my
ghostly' psalm 1
Were I nailed perpendicular, to lift a martyr’s
wheeze,
I would not be particular nor bother with M.P.’s
But being one who listeneth unto the daily roar
Where Mace or Rod bedizeneth, I rise and shut the
door!
Let politicians far lament, where Peace and Sense
are banned—
Far off from blaring Parliament I hear the Silent
Land !
I hear Australia reckoning—whilst P.M.G.’s ex-
plain,
And Ministers are beckoning, thoughts flash within
her brain !
Australia Thinks I —eternally I hear her speechless
prayer;
Whilst members rage infernally, she counts the
beads of Care!
The Silent Land is hearkening, no sentence speaketh
she;
And yet with brow swift-darkening she damns each
fool M.P. 1
With eyeballs wildly glistening they hector and
demand;
I see Australia listening—the scornful Silent Land 1
She is the Witness critical who gazes oh the scene;
She watches analytical the paltry souls and mean!
She is the Judge imperious, whom members cannot
see;
The One far-off, mysterious, whose soul-thoughts
speak to me !
When threats are swiftly muttering and members
leap and pace,
I hear her spirit uttering athwart the leagues of
space!
She is the Judge inscrutable, the sword within her
hand ; '
Erect and stern, immutable—behold the Silent
Land !
The dotards and F# palterers she scans with
thoughtful eye—
The failures and the falterers who pass in legions
by! ’
She hears each ancient platitude—incarnate Scorn
she seems
When Johnson strikes an attitude or Willy Kelly
screams!
No word of praise she uttereth, nor yet of doubt
nor blame;
But, lo! the nation muttereth her thoughts of
sweeping flame!
She is the One unperishing whose judgments sting
* and brand ;
The Witness nation-cherishing—hear ye the Silent
Land !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Sabbath-Breaker.
They are looking at me, good Christian folk,
They are looking at me in scorn,
As they troop to church in their Sabbath dress,
And I lounge here in idleness
This glorious Sunday morn.
They are sniffing at me with Christian sniffs,
As they pass me, garbed in gloom ;
Right glad am I as I sprawl at ease,
With a pipe and a book beneath the trees;
But they’ye marked me down for Doom.
They are gazing at me, good Christian folk,
And their gaze is dour and stern;
And their eyes are hard, and their lips are long,
For they heard me trolling a worldly song,
And they look to see me burn.
Nay, what have I done, good Christian folk?
And how have I earned your scorn ?
May I not be filled with joy to see
The gifts the good God sends to me
On this glad Sabbath morn?
Would ye have me wear a bilious air,
And clothe myself in gloom,
And don my best black Sunday dress,
And walk in mournful righteousness,
And ponder on the Tomb ?
Nay, but all Nature laughs, good folk—
Laughs at your mood austere.
The festive birds, the joyous trees,
The wooing of the wanton breeze,
All bid me tarry here.
They are coming from church, good Christian folk,
And their gloom has deepened thrice.
They are pondering what the preacher said
Of the mouldy grave and the wormy dead;
They are storing his sage advice.
They are looking at me again. God wot
How have I earned such blame!
I feel glad life with ev’ry breath;
I cannot meditate on death
Nor count my joy a shame.
Nay, let me be, good Christian folk.
I pray ye let me rest.
For I cannot join ye here below;
If I join ye not where’er ye go,
I am quite content to have it so ;
For I should be sore oppressed.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Combination Couch and Bed.
———■—■■minmi i i — l ———— —^
i
i CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
!
SfetyV V*. » V'V <r V. Vn *|
CLOSED AS COUCH
m
>*a
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out ol order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY.
YENS
“LITTLE KRAG” RIFLE NO. 65
sd
BOLT ACTION. SIMPLE CONSTRUCTION.
Weighs 3% pounds. For .22 Long Rifle R. F. Cartridges.
STEVENS RIFLES hold more Records for accuracy than all other
makes combined.
Order
STEVENS
from your
Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[4
The Royal Bank of Australia Limited.
Head Office : Melbourne, Victoria.
presented to the shareholders at the ordinary
rOrTy-OIXZn rzcpori general meeting on april 27, ion.
THE Directors have pleasure in submitting: to Shareholders the annexed Balance-Sheet and Statement of Accounts
for the Half-Year ending March 31, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £3462 15s. lid. brought from last Half-Year) amount to ..£25,358 1, 1
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.
To pay a dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum .. .. £10,500 0
~ Transfer to the Reserve Fund (making it £150,000) .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,000 0
„• Pay a bonus to the staff « .. .. 1,366 0
And to carry forward the balance .. .. .. .. .. 3,492 1
£25,358 1 1
The Directors are glad to be able to congratulate Shareholders on a successful Half-Year. Trade has been
active, and the volume of business has expanded considerably, leading to a gratifying increase in profits.
Towards the end of the Half-Year a Branch was opened at Footscray, where the Directors are encouraged to
believe, a fair business can be secured in time.
On this occasion the Directors have pleasure in recommending the payment of a bonus to the staff at Head Office
and Branches of 10 per cent, on their salaries, which they trust will meet with the approval of Shareholders.
The assistance of Shareholders in spreading the business of the bank has proved of such value in bygone years
that they are once more urged to use their influence in securing new accounts for the bank.
By Order of the Board, H. T. WILSON, General Manager.
0
0
0
1
BALANCE-SHEET of THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
For the Half-Year ending March 31, 1911.
Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4
each -.. ...£2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed —
300,000 shares of £4
each .. ..£1,200,000 0 0
To Capital paid up .. £300,000 0 0
To Reserve Fund .. 140,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss
Account .. .. 25,358 1 1
£465,358 1 1
To Notes in circulation .. .. .. 18,917 0 0
To Bills in circulation .. .. .. 156,585 19 4
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest £48,989 6 8
Bearing: interest .. 379,513 1 5
428,502 8 1
To Other Deposits—
Rebate and Inter-
Notbearing terest £662,301 18 3
Bearing: interest .. 843,785 14 8
1,506,087 12 11
To balances due to other banks.. .. 830 14 5
£2,576,281 15 10
Tto contingent liabilities as per contra 613,841 0 0
£3,190,122 15 10
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion-, Aus-
tralian notes, and
cash at bankers
By notes and bills, of
other banks..
By balance due from
other banks..
By bills and remit-
tances in transit,
and payable in
London
By Government, mu-
nicipal, and other
public stocks, de-
bentures and funds
By stamps
£567,548 8
769 2
13.45 S 13
257,862 6
1,820 0
539 15
4
8
8
0
0
0
By Real Estate, consisting’ of—
Bank premises .
Other real estate at cost to bank
By bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts ..
By bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
etc. .
£841,998 6 2
55,000 .0 0
5,360 7 10
1,670,738 1 10
3,185 0 0
£2,576,281 15 10
By liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities as per contra 613,841 0 0
£3,190,122 15 10
PROFIT ANO LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, rent, income tax and other
charares .. .. •• •••• •• £10,290 13 6
~ Balance 25,358 1 1
■ ■* Vi: V- v' /
£35,648 14 7
By Balance at September 30, 1910 ... .. £23,962 15 11
Less dividend declared
October 27, 1910 ..£10,500 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund 10,000 0 0
— 20,500 0 0
~ Balance carried down £3,462 15 11
~ Profits for the Half-year, after deduct-
ing interest accrued on deposits and
rebate on bills current, less reserves for
bad and doubtful debts .. 32,185 18 8
£35,648 14 7
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
. .£140,000 0 0
£140,000 0
By Balance at September 30, 1910 .. . .£130,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 10,000 0 0
£140,000 0 0
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhisky
m
OLD
SCO
m
-j
u
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones &
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine.
HOBART—John Ferguson & CoJ
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie & Ce.
THE WHISKY
FOR THE HOME
fsd
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and.
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mowlams. N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office —or your own residence direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
John Strangle Winter
mET PREPARATIONS
EMBLEMS OF PURITY.
J.S.W. Hair Food.
J.S.W. Hair Food, Non=Oily.
J.S.W. Lakshmi Cream.
J.S.W. Lakshmi Lotion.
J.S.W. Dental Cream.
J.S.W. Creme Marquise.
J.S.W. Poudre Marquise.
J;S.W. Savon Marquise (Toilet).
J.S.W. Marquise Shaving Stick.
J.S.W. Papier Marquise.
4911
JOHN STRANGE WINTER LAKSHMI CREAM, 5/-; Post Free, 3/6.
.John Strange Winter Lakshmi Cream makes the skin clear, perfectly
healthy, and smooth as satin. It softens, cleanses, stimulates and feeds the
skin, and does not encourage the growth of hair. No animal fat, vaseline,
lanoline. benzoin, or glycerine enter into its making. It is a delightful com-
pound of absolutely pure ingredients, and just what the skin requires.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER DENTAL CREAM, 1/6 ; Post Free, 2/-
As a mouth wash and teeth cleanser and preserver, the John Strange
Winter Cental Cream has no equal. It acts as a delicious antiseptic wash,
destroying all bacteria, and imparts a delightful, refreshing sensation to the
mouth. It is the latest addition to the John Strange Winter Toilet Prepara-
tions, and makes the teeth pearly white.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER,
LONDON, PARIS, VIENNA.
SYDNEY OFFICE : 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agencies at 225 Collins Street, Melbourne; Bowman Buildings, Adelaide.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1028.
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1911.
PIUCK fll).
“THE FIVE NATIONS.”
LONDON, Wednesday.—The TIMES states this morning that the Dominions are being driven at a dozen points into the practical world of politics on their own account, and
are acquiring interests sometimes conflicting with Britain’s. Unless there is a mutual understanding, the five nations will find it impossible to continue the system whereby British
foreign policy remains a sealed book to all but one partner. “It is necessary,” the paper adds, “that our policy be strengthened by becoming Imperial and securing the
conscious and continuous support of the Governments overseas.”
DR. ASQUITH: “ This little chap looks as though he’s sickening for yellow fever.”
J. BULL: “ Oh, him 1 Don’t you worry about him ! When any of my kids get ill I just give ’em some of my gout mixture.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office qf the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly ... .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and. to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters {with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them •to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are ..copyright by the
publishers. The .right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents’.of this number is hereby ex-
pressly, reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches . (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000:. words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or newspaper Clippings.
All communications .will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without' stamps for return it mil be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal' applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction , or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any. picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which lias to be.re-drawn—r-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. :
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account Of;" Messrs. ' Gordon and Gotch {wholesale
agents) to Victoria ,; West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson.. and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at i/6 per. doz. 'nett.
Copies pf ( The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after ' the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Holborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine ajid Forsyth, fill Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Issertts A,, Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Col, Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, . size
6%in. x Ilyin., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1911.
THE SHOWING-UP OF PARTY
GOVERNMENT.
At the time of writing the jury has, in a
manner of speaking, retired to consider its
verdict on the Referenda questions, and
what the outcome will be no man knows.
All that is certain is that at least one bene-
ficial result must accrue from the campaign,
namely, the further discrediting of our ab-
surd system of Party Government. A
country which has for years endured repre-
sentatives like J. Cook and George Reid
can evidently stomach a lot in the way of
political insincerity, but when it comes to
whole batches of'politicians cheerfully going
back an their oft and loudly expressed con-
victions, at the behest of the Party bosses,
the scandal grows indecently clamorous, and
the moment for a violent kick of protest ap-
proaches.
* * * *
For months Alfred Deakin has been
fighting the Constitutional amendments ask-ed
for by the Government; _ and yet, unless he
prevaricated senselessly in the past, he fa-
vors all of them. The New Protection—
the policy which the Fisher Government’s
Trade and Commerce clause was designed
to make operative —was Deakin’s own
measure, defeated only by a High Court
decision, which came as a complete surprise
to all parties. The present leader of “Lib-
eralism” used not to be the sort of I rotec-
tionist who sees no merit in a tariff unless
it aggrandises the manufacturer, and the
manufacturer alone. In 1907 he, said :
To restrict the powers of the Commonwealth to
the mere imposition of duties,' while the conditions
under which the manufacture ,of protected articles
is carried on differ so widely in the different States,
would be to permit inequality, discrimination and
discord. The ideal of the Commonwealth is equality
and uniformity in all industrial matters. Effective
and useful as .State industrial laws have in many
cases proved, their operation is circumscribed by
State boundaries, and it can hardly be claimed for
them that they either do or can secure uniformity
in the conditions of manufacture throughout Aus-
tralia. No, authority but the Commonwealth Par-
liament can do this.
. And in 190 S he said :
As the power to protect' the manufacturer is
national, it follows that, unless the Parliament of
the Commonwealth also acquires powers to secure
fair and reasonable conditions of employment to
wage-earners, the policy of Protection must remain
incomplete.
Australia has heard nothing like that from
Alfred Deakin of late; yet what was good
logic and sense at the end of 1908 should
have been equally so at the beginning of
1911. And more consistent Anti-Laborites
than Deaktn expressed similar views in the
days when the possibility of a Labor Govern-
ment, with a straight-out majority, was not
entertained by anyone. For example, W.
H. Irvine —the same Irvine who has been
arguing recently that Ruin and Revolution
will smite Australia if the Federal Parlia-
ment’s powers are enlarged as proposed—
said two years ago:—
I say that the people of this country properly
demand that the experiment of attempting to regu-
late wages and conditions of labor shall be honestly
and fairly carried out on all sides. That being the
desire, we ought not to impose technical objections
to prevent its being carried out. Let us give to
that governing body which can effectually and best
carry it out the power to do so. We on this side
of the House should not be afraid to give Parliament
wider powers. ... / for one am, not afraid to
entrust this power to the Parliament. We have a
great jury to appeal to—the people of Australia!
Immense capital was made by Anti-Labor
State Frighters of the Joe Cook stamp
out of the Referenda clause which provided
that State railway servants should be allowed
a right of appeal to the Federal Arbitration
Court. For months Cook has been insist-
ing that, to allow the employees of an Aus-
tralian State to seek what they conceive to
be justice in an Australian High Court,
would bring about the disorganisation of the
railway systems of the Commonwealth, and
create such a panic in foreign pawnshops
that Australia’s loan supply would be cut off
at the meter. In 1904 Cook and a ma-
jority of the Anti-Socialist party (now the
“Lioeral” party) favored the inclusion of
KJiate railway servants in the Federal Arbi-
tration Bill. The Government of the day
was indeed ousted with the assistance of
the party to which Cook then belonged, be-
cause it jibbed at this proposal. A brief
Labor interregnum followed, and then Cook
and his Freetrade, Anti-Socialistic, “Liberal”
colleagues jumped the Treasury benches, and
passed the identical legislation in regard to
railway servants which they have, since the
beginning of the current year, been damning
unitedly as an infamy and an assault on
State Rights.
* * * *
It was not till a Labor Government made
Federal control of monopolies part of its ap-
peal to the country that “Liberalism” dis-
covered anything noxious in the policy.
Some of the bitterest Anfi-Laborites in the
Federal House were agreed last year that
the States could not deal adequately with
injurious monopolies—if only for the fact
that a Trust may register in one State and
operate in another —and that the only means
of scotching such abuses lay in giving the
Commonwealth Parliament power to do so.
W. H. Irvine spoke on the subject on Oc-
• tober 19 last: —
The experience of the United, States, especially
during the last 15 or 20 years, goes to show that to
deal with this growing evil the arm of the States
iR too short, whilst the arm of the Central Govern-
ment is paralysed by the constitutional ligature to
which I have referred. There is no power to deal
with these Trusts iri the United States, and the point
has been madfe by Dr. Haynes in the passage to
which I have referred, that with a Constitution
which is practically incapable of being so amended
as to do away With this ligature there may be found
no other remedy than some form of revolutionary
change.
Sir John Forrest: But the States can deal with
these Trusts? ’
Mr. W. H. IRvine: The States cannot; that is the
whole point.
Sir John Forrest: Not with the operations of a
Trust within a State?
Mr. W. H. Irvine : No; the whole evil of the
position in the United States is that the individual
States are quite powerless. Nothing is better
known than is that fact to anyone who has given
any consideration to the question.
Nevertheless, W. H. Irvine has been fore-
most among those of his party who assured
the electors during the recent campaign (1)
that there were no Trusts in Australia, and
(2) that, in the unlikely event of any mater-
ialising, the States had full power to con-
trol them.
* * * *
So much for the attitude of representative
“Liberals” towards a set of proposals which
might well have been their own. Now consider
the attitude of certain State Labor members
towards the same proposals. There was no
personal reason why the average State mem-
ber, Labor or otherwise, should have en-
thused about the Fisher amendments. The
Government proposals, though they never
threatened the preposterous interferences
with the details of business and so on which
their opponents alleged, were certainly cal-
culated to diminish the powers and prestige
of State Parliaments. The Holmans and
McGowens of N. S. Wales have no hope of
a career in Federal politics. Their whole
future lies in their State. It is understand-
able, therefore, that they should want to
retain all the importance that attaches to
the State politician’s ,job. And, further-
more, there is the consideration that these
men have, for years, been hopelessly out of
touch with the democratic spirit of Austra-
lia. They are peace cranks in a nation
which has declared overwhelmingly for com-
pulsory service: State Frighters in an age
when the rallying cries of the Cabbage Tree
mob are as dead a,s their authors. In other
words, they are inefficiently disguised Tories,
the sort of folks who might be expected to
regard any new legislative departure as
fraught with peril. Not self-interest alone,
but innate Conservatism as well, set them
against the Referenda proposals. But they
did not voice their opinions to any extent.
While the country was seething with argu-
ments for and against the Government’s pro-
posals, these tribunes of the people lay iu-
gloriously low and said nothing.
The silence of these false-alarm Laborites
was due to the same cause as the volubility
of their “Liberal” allies. That is to say, Party
Discipline. In the case of the State Labor-
ites, the Party organisation—that all-power-
ful entity which is responsible to no one —
said in effect: “Whatever hostile views
you hold regarding these questions, you ate
not to air them. If you do, you leave the
Labor party.” And Holman, McGowen
and the rest, putting the lucrative billets
which membership of the party alone per-
mits them to enjoy before their Anti-Refer-
enda convictions, subsided, and were heard
no more. To Deakin, Cook, Irvine and
the rest, the “Liberal” party said: “The
enemy has put forward certain proposals.
You must therefore oppose them. In any
case they are inimical to Vested Interests.
It matters not that you have all, in the
days when you were not pledged definitely
to Anti-Laborism, advocated majority of
these proposals yourselves. Your present
duty is to constitute yourselves special
pleaders against every one of them, that be-
ing the way the party game, as originally
imported from England, always has been
and always must be played.”
* * * *
Tbe struggle is over; the various ethical
sacrifices have been accomplished. Deakin
and his colleagues retain the approval of offi-
cial “Liberalism”; McGowen and his col-
leagues remain in the Labor movement.
Faint moans of protest still issue from the
“Liberal” press, inasmuch as those Labor-
ites who should have attacked the Referenda
proposals were bulldozed into silence by the
Party machine. And from Fremantle drifts
this plaintive cry of surprise from honest
Andrew Fisher :
I think Mr. Deakin has found himself surrounded
by gentlemen who never were Liberal in the true
sense of the term, and he finds himself compelled to
lead a party against proposals which might very well
a few years ago have emanated from himself. I can-
not understand a man of his position and standing
in the Commonwealth stating a few years ago. in
writing, that his opinions were like ours, and then
going back on them.
The general public is so far inarticulate
on the subject. When it gets a chance it,
should surely have a word to say, and a vig-
orous curse to discharge, at a political sys-
tem which, while possessing few points of
merit, operates to produce more liars, turn-
coats, trimmers and spielers than any other
that has been devised by man.
THE STEADFAST MERINO.
i Merinos remain unchanged.—S. M. ITerald.
The whole world changes; Australia, at the
command Of her poets, gets up and makes
a critical examination of the Dawn ; but the
wool-bearing beast, whose bleat pervades the
banks, river-flats, agencies, and drawing-
rooms of this continent, remains as immobile
as the Sphinx, and as unalterable as the cur-
rency of alcohol. Referenda and cyclones
rage; Wowser and Bung mention each
other’s deficiencies; surf-bathing and picture-
shows alter the face of Nature, while hobble
and harem skirts re-disguise her nether
limbs. But the merino browses on, solemn
as Fate, placid as the ocean of Eternity.
* * * .
There is something in the make-up of the
beast which renders him kin to Chaos and
Old Night, and links him in an everlasting
brotherhood with the oldest and most fatigued
star. The spirit of the merino was abroad
when Noaii was: a little boy, learning to
balance himself on the hump of his father’s
least odorous camel ; it rested on the Plain
of Shinar before Nimrod started a. State
brickworks; it slumbered qn the Seven hills
before Romulus erected his liumpy by the
banks of the Tiber pit spread as a hoary fog
over Britain long years before J. C/esar in-
terrupted it with a meat cleaver. In
fact, from the dawn of history to
the public swindle of Yassberra. the
imperturbable essence of the ; merino
has made its influence felt in all human af-
fairs. As a subtle, impalpable vapor its
moribundity has pervaded the brain and con-
science of those who are marked from birth
as its own; and wherever manhood becomes
Fat, through the anointing of the great god
Pluius, its occult power descends with the
weight of Mount Kosciusko and the Ten
Commandments rolled in one.
Merinos remain unchanged. The white
man’s world of 400 years ago was an ex-
ceedingly good place not to live in. In
those grand old times knives were more in
evidence than laws, throat-cutting! was the
most popular form off sport, and the crime
of being merely John Smith was one to be
expiated by life-long servitude. One morn-
ing Progress woke with a start, and saw
that it was time to be at work. She pulled
Freedom’s hair, and bawled in her ear that
it was breakfast time; and the two ladies
started out to organise a conspiracy which
has ever since gone by the name of Democ-
racy. The conspirators altered the world.
Already they have gone nearly half-way to
their goal. Throat-cutting has been slightly
diminished, hunger has become scarcer, soap
and water have come into almost general use,
and all sorts of naw-fangled abominations
have been introduced. Wicked inventions,
such as trains, towels, steamships, politi-
cians, newspapers, doctors, trousers, police-
courts, dinner-forks, theatres, and postage
stamps, have marked the declension from
the high standard of the past; and the
spirit of the merino has been the only bul-
wark of the world against the horror of
moving change. Always a portion of man-
kind, under that subtly-ennobling influence,
has entered its splendid protest, and upheld
' the glories of the great days gone ; and, had
it not- been that the people are easily carried
away by a mere party cry, we should still
be as magnificently hungry as of old, and as
likely to have our throats cut as in the days
of Plantagenet kings or the Saxon Hep-
tarchy.
* * * *
Merinos remain unchanged. For half a
century Australia was divided into a num-
ber of small and jealous colonies, whose peo-
ple regarded one another with the most plea-
sant feelings of hatred, malice and vindic-
tive spite. Tariff walls, foreshadowing the
forts of the future, were built around the
frontiers of each petty nrovince; and a
perpetual war of pin-pricks and small an-
noyances helped to keep the rival settle-
ments mindful of their parochial interests
and prejudices. A dozen years ago a of
enthusiasts, who had long been preaching the
doctrine of a United Australia, succeeded in
forming a Federation of States, under the
title of the Commonwealth. By their action
they practically abolisned the grounds for
unpleasantness between settlement and set-
tlement, gave a fillip to every form of Aus-
tralian industry, introduced a new era of
prosperity, and destroyed the condition of
wrangle and strife which had gladdened the
earlier years. Naturally they were opposed
at every point by the spirit of the merino.
The woolly-minded person regarded the pre-
vious condition of the continent as something
directly and specifically arranged by Provi-
dence, something which it was sacrilege to
seek to improve, and which none but
impious men would attempt to seri-
ously alter. With splendid zeal they
spoke and voted against change • but
the madness of the popular Australian-
ism gained the day, and all that has re-
mained to the stalwarts of holy stagnation
has been to keep the last flicker of tbe old
parish spites alive in the breasts of the faith
ful.
Merinos remain unchanged. Australia to-
day presents the glorious spectacle of four-
teen Houses of Legislature, seven Governors
—all crowned with the cocked hat of semi-
majesty—and an almost uncountable mob
of very ordinary, but specially selected, per-
sons who call themselves Senators, or write
M.P., M.L.A., or M.L.C., after their dis-
tinguished names. In proportion to popu-
lation, this country has more machinery of
government, vice-regal glitter, pomp of of-
fice, and general' political swagger, than any
other white country on earth. And it is
justly proud of the fact. Any person rid-
ing in a pony-carriage drawn by seven horses,
one camel, six mules, six working bullocks,
and an elephant, besides a host of minor
animals, ranging from imported asses to
native bears, would be strangely constituted
indeed if he did not feel "roud of the as-
sorted menagerie in the traces. Yet we are
not allowed to enjoy our glory in peace.
Certain firebrands have arisen who declare
that six out of our seven vice-regal estab-
lishments are crimes against common sense,
and that seven out of our fourteen Cham-
bers of Legislature stand as a perpetual
proof of national insanity. The solid, un-
divided merino mind offers its steadfastness
in defence of our systematised lack of sys-
tem. It presents argument; unanswerable
A populous island in the North Sea has con-
trived to muddle on for centuries with two
Houses of Legislature and one King, and
how should Australia get along without its
fourteen houses and seven imposing king-
lets? Poor common sense has no answer to
give when the merino asks such a question
as that! > : \
* * * ,
Merinos remain unchanged. The city of
Sydney has fallen haphazard oh several
square miles of hills, and is spreading out
arms of brick and mortar in every direction.
It is infested by scores of little municipali-
ties, and countless swarms of more" or less
illiterate aldermen, who fume and fret and
try to preserve their large-waisted dignity
at the expense of pretty well everything a
modern city should possess. The result is
a picturesque, but only somewhat sanitary,
and rather less than moderately convenient,
human ant-heap. Visionaries yell for a
Greater Sydney, under one strong and
capable municipal council. They wquld rob
the suburban alderman of his sacred right
to display his profound incapacity, and at
one sweep bring the whole populous area up
t'- the level of a clean, orderly and health/
city. No well-balanced merino intellect
would ever consent to such a change as that.
London in the days of its fame, before the
Great Plague, had almost as much confusion,
lack of economy, and consequential “dignity”
as the tangled mass of uncombed streets
clustering round Port Jackson, and what bet-
ter precedent should one want? Here at
least a sheepish political intelligence' must
make a stand worthy of; its ancient reputa-
tion. Possessing the finest example! of tri-
umphant municipal muddle on this i planet,
the citadel of splendid incompetence musi
never be yielded while a single truculent al
derman remains to glorify a distended waist
coat. * « ’ *
Merinos remain unchanged. Though th°
heavens fall, and though a Jap invasion fol-
low on an Australian drought, the invincibh
and unalterable merino mind remains the
same. The No. 9 boot of the people eanno'
stir it; the cannon of common sense cannot,
breach its walls; the microbe of reason can-
not quicken in it any fever of'unrest. JSolid
as a Scotchman’s regard for porridge, ear-
nest as the bottomless foundations of Sheol,
strong as the grip of greed, and vast as the
ocean of ignorance, it opposes all change, all
reform, all hope, all movement of any kind
whatever. Merinos are unchanged and un-
changeable.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Party That Does Things.
One of the objects of Australian Federation
was effective defence. Years passed, and
nothing whatever was done. Then the
Labor party came into power, and
universal service and an Australian navy
materialised. The bursting up of big
estates had been talked about for as long
as the Commonwealth couild remember; but
no Government attempted to burst anything.
The Labor party had not been six months
in office before a graduated land-tax arrived
to, do it. Not to harass an obvious proposi-
tion, if there is merit in a political party
briskly and capably doing those things which
ife. has promised to do, the Federal Labor
party good. The N.S..W. State
Labor Government is not above reproach in
a multitude of ways, but it has given no
sign of being less sincere in regard to its
pledges than the Federal Laborites. Last
Thursday night Acting-Premier Holman laid
his Government’s intentions befbre the pub-
lic. They comprise pretty nearly all the
measures that Anti-Labor has enthused about
for the past ten years, and at the same time
has doggedly refrained from touching. The
See. Carrutiiers and Wade Governments
all blithered about the crying necessity of a
harbor bridge or tunnel. To North Shore
deputationists they handed soothing words,
and then either appointed another Commis
sion, or dropped the subject without even


that time-worn sop to public clamor. The
licking of the State’s absurdly invoiycd an
numerous Land Acts and Amendi S
to intelligible shape has been mentioned by
successive Governments since the b g
of things. But none of them attempted to
do it. The principle of a Court of Cum
inal Appeal—an institution which has been
giving the utmost satisfaction in
tive England for the past three years—has
been applauded, in an academic sc
fashion, by the legal members of half a dozen
“Liberal” Ministries; but not one of them
dared to give it a chance. The need fo
radical change in the Industrial C°u t »
long been apparent. Judge Heydon Pjophe
sied last year that the Wages Boaid system
must break down. “Liberalism had no sug-
gestion to offer. This paper remarked at
the time: —
What would probably meet the case V T lld ™fnr tn
institution of one or more tribunals with the power to
group together co-related industries, and conside
them in the mass. Thus it would be feasible for one
Court to handle all the industries connected—say
with the business of coal-mining, just as, under t
old Act, one Court successfully handled all the in-
dustries connected with silver-mining.
This is the course which the Government
proposes to take. As Holman put it:
Instead of a vast number of Wages Boards we
shall arrange allied trades in groups, and appoint
smaller Courts or Boards for each.
It will be bad news for the army of briefless
barristers who, under the Wade system,
drew fat fees as chairmen of the countless
Wages Boards that came into being; but it
will be better and cheaper for the State.
These are some of the reforms that the
N.S.W. Labor party pledges itself to get
busy with at once. The only criticism that
can be aimed at them is that they may not
be accomplished. And if they emanated
from a “Liberal” Government, that plaint
would carry a deal of weight. But Labor pos-
sesses the splendid advantage of haying no
Vested Interest howling protests in its ear ;
and, on past form, it should do the things it
has been commissioned by the country to
do, and do them soon.
Why Britain Consists Largely of Poorhouses
The big-syndicate papers printed the other
day this cable :
The British Board of Trade has issued a report
on wages, rents, and prices in the United States.
The statements show that an American wonanan,
although employed for shorter hours, earns two-and-
a-quarter times as much as a workman in England.
On the other hand, rent is twofold and food one-
third higher. But the cost of living altogether is
as 152 to 100.
Having printed tlie report, the Argus and
the Herald and the Telegraph and the rest
of them conspired to conveniently forget all
about it. A thousand times they and their
friend Obesity had told the working man
that he was no better off for his high wages,
because all the extra money he earned went
in paying extra for the old bread, sugar and
sauce. In particular, he was assured that
Protection was a silly thing; his adviser al-
most wept over the yarn of his own inven-
tion that the protected German workman
has dead horse for dinner, and black bread
for supper. As for the American workman,
everybody knew that the poor, harassed,
over-wrought wretch had to plug away a ter-
rific ' number of hours in order to earn
enough to pay the equally terrific prices
that ruled in America. Now, on top of all
these beautiful stories—all tending to show
how foolish a man is to ask for more wages,
and how a “rise” in pay really, amounts to
a punishment, so that a sufficient number
of “rises” would mean starvation —-comes this
depressing cable. The protected American
workman, it says, works shorter hours than
his British brother, and yet earns £225 where
the Freetrade Briton earns only £100;
nevertheless, the American’s living costs him
only £152, where it costs the British Free-
trader £IOO. So where the British Free-
trade workman can simply make both ends
meet, the protected American can, with
shorter hours, live as well, and put by £/3.
This isn’t the screech of some Yankee immi-
gration agent, either; it is the report of the
British Board of Trade—the sort of docu-
ment on which British publicists are ex-
pected to base their conclusions. No won-
der, then, the Argus, and the Sydney Tele-
graph,' and the rest of the Freetrade and
low-wage papers decided to simply ignore
the document. But that won’t, suppress it,
any more than the profound disrespect of a
caterpillar will, suppress Kosciusko.
Bush Nursing.
Lady Dudley’s bush-nursing scheme has
made a new start; so it is worth casting the
eye of criticism afresh on a proposal which
was worthy and reasonable enough in itself,
and which would have been in full flower
long since, had our ancient nobility done halt
the financial things that were expected. At
Beech Forest, as elsewhere, the nurse will
attend to residents, and generally help the
local doctors. The point which needs to be
emphasised at an early stage —since one State
Government is subsidising the scheme, and
others are likely to follow suit —is that,
though the nurse’s presence may be cheering
enough to those whom she encounters, from
a State point of view she represents much
wasted energy. There is a need in Australia
for a bush-nursing scheme. In fact, the
various States would save much money and
many lives if they supported a number of
bush nurses without attempting the hopeless
job of cadging their salaries and board-money
from the well-to-do. But it needs to be run
on business as apart from sentimental lines.
The bush person who (1) dies, or (2) un-
necessarily clogs the already congested
country hospitals, or (3) does both, for lack
of a bush-nursing system, is not the bush re-
sident so much as the swaggie, the fencer, the
boundary-rider, the share farmer, the rabbit-
trapper, and the rest of the great • army of
“campers.” When the “camper” gets ill he
either attends to himself or else visits the
nearest public hospital. The doctor in charge
is immediately in a quandary. He knows that
if he treats the man or prescribes for lnm
and sends him away, the patient will soon
be pottering round a muddy or dusty
camp, cooking, boiling billies, and other-
wise doing all that is necessary to
make his ill probably worse. So m
even trivial cases the country doctor orders
the afflicted into the hospital. Thus the pub-
lic is put to a vast amount of unnecessary
expense (Oogtilan estimated that each hos-
pital bed in N.S.W. cost £37 10s. per an-
num) ; and, worst of all, the hospitals are
crowded to the exclusion of really serious
cases. An intelligently organised bush nuis_
ing scheme would go a long way towards re
medying this. In those centres wheie be mi
gratory population tends to congregat, _
Bathurst, Dubbo and Armidale /N-fe.W.) ,
in Echuca, Nhill and Mildura (Vic.) ac
commodation houses of the iuexr y
'the N.S.VV. Government has built at xarran
gobilly Caves and other tourist resorts, might
be run up. They should be supplied with
simple remedies, and be under the control of
qualified nurses Taking as o w cost
LAN’s asylum figures for N- s - w ->
per bed per annum would be a shade under
f°l The difference between that and the
cost of a hospital bed would represent a sav-
ing to the community of £ls _los. And the
overloading, which is a chronic troub
country hospitals, would be mitigated 1
weren’t ended. A bush-nursing scheme, framed
Jo cope with this trouble, would not only
save the country a lot of money and benefit,
the person who has either no home at all o
only a makeshift one, but would incidentally
be a blessing to every bush resident who is a
potential hospital inmate—-which is to say,
to about 60 per cent, of the inhabitants of
Australia.
A Disease Which is Shot on Sight; and
Another Which is Asked m to Have a Drink.
Last week the Mooltan arrived in Westralia
with small-pox on board. The moment the
disease was diagnosed the solitary sullerer
and his cabin companion were isolated. Un
reaching Adelaide the steamer, its cargo and
its 266 passengers were quarantined. ±he
S. Australian passengers were ordered to
Torrens Island, and there vaccinated and
disinfected. At Melbourne the rest of the
passengers —barring live ‘conscientious o -
lectors” —were vaccinated and disinfected.
The cargo was fumigated. The doctor who
did the vaccinating, the nurses who helped
him, the constables who were employed to
ward visitors oil’ the ship were all torced into
quarantine. A quantity of coal had been
ordered at the Semaphore. I he lumpers,
though offered special pay, declined to work
beneath the yellow fiag. Only those passen-
gers who proved that they had not associated
with the original cause of the trouble, and
that they had been successfully pre-vaccin-
ated, were allowed to leave the ship. Even
then they were put under surveillance, and
were ordered to appear fpr medical inspec-
tion at stated intervals. A Mooltan pas-
senger who had been duly vaccinated and
disinfected arrived in Sydney ahead ot ttie
ship. The local Health authorities were
panic-stricken. Dr. Ashburton Tiiomp-
son “knew no peace of mind until this man
had been found and quarantined.” I he daily
papers wrote leading articles, pointing out
heatedly that ‘‘the incident indicated a very
serious defect in Commonwealth Quarantine
administration.” In fact, small-pox was not
given a sporting chance. It was, metaphori-
cally speaking, poisoned, and shot sl tt in S’
and then dvuamited. Set aboard the Mool-
tan, in addition to the small-pox patient,
were certainly half a dozen, perhaps a dozen,
possibly twice that number, who were suf-
fering from a dreadful disease to which it
was no one’s duty to attend. This disease,
according to Cogiilan, is the direct cause of
death in one out of every 330 females, and
one out of every 229 males in Australia to-
day. Locomotor ataxia, general paralysis
of the insane, brain-softening, practically all
nervous troubles, and countless ghastly eye,
throat and skin afflictions arise from it.
It is as loathsome as small-pox, and is liable
to be a thousand times more disfiguring
later on. Whereas small-pox runs its course
and is done with, this complaint stays with
its victim to the grave. It is so communi-
cable that any infant may catch it from any
nurse; any bather from any towel; any
drinker from any cup or glass; any man or
woman from any friend _ or relation. A
drug exists which, even if it fails to cure
individual sufferers (and there is good reason
to think it does cure them), certainly pre-
vents the creation, by infection, ot fresh
ones. And not a single Government in the
Commonwealth is moving in the matter! A
disease which has been the bane of the civil-
ised world for four centuries, and whose
grim evidences are everywhere 10-day, is
blandly treated as though it did not exist.
An imbecile British convention forbids the
mention of this complaint on the stage, in
society, or ip the columns of sheets which
circulate in the home. Politicians dread to
legislate against it, or .even to speak ot it;
and the papers suppress 5 their remarks when
they do speak. Last month the London
Family Doctor said with justifiable pride:
One after the other diseases are disappearing.
Small-pox, typhus, hospital gangrene, diphtheria,
malaria, Malta. fever, consumption, are all going.
All “germ” diseases are going. Length ot lile is
extending. As many people died at 40 in the reign
of Queen Elizabeth as now live to 70.
But there is no diminution of syphilitic
disease. The doctors, the politicians, and
the Press fully appreciate its ravages, but
they lack the nerve to bring the light ot pub-
iic knowledge and opinion to bear on it; and
disease, like other evil things, flourishes in
darkness. It is a depressing reflection on
our intelligence as a people that if success-
ful campaign is ever to be instituted against
this Horror, the Horror will certainly have
to be called housemaid’s knee, or some such
innocuous-sounding name, before the Genteel
will take any useful part in scotching it
♦ • ■
The Lash.
“The Ancient,” on noticing that in Wes-
tralia the other day, under a newly-enacted
law, a man convicted of a sexual offence
was ordered a flogging, in addition to life
imprisonment: .
Flogging is a class punishment. The lash is for
the man in workman’s garb, and for him alone—
who ever saw a silk hat and a broadcloth coat
doffed at the triangles ? ‘ Society simply couldn t
flog a “gentleman,” no matter what ne had done;
if "it did it would raise livid weals on the soul of
his silver-haired old mother, anil make raspberry-
marks on the immortal parts of his sainted sisters.
The hitherto-ruling classes have, however, little
compunction in vicariously flogging Mrs. Smith, the
vulgar washerwoman, through the back of her
blackguard son. ,’. , ,
And not onlv is the lash a class torture, but
there is a greater disproportion between its relative
effects on' different individuals than obtains in any
other form of legal punishment. (Here let it be
noted that the flogger is set by law to avenge crimes
of passion as well as of cold, calculating brutality.)
The late N.S.W. Chiei Justice Dakley, after order-
ing a man to be- imprisoned and flogged, relented
on hearing an appeal by the prisoner’s counsel, and
consented to remit the flogging. When the man
came up to me a few days after his trial,’ said
the Chief Justice to a legal friend, “I quite failed
to recognise him —he seemed to have shrunk to half
his size through fear.” After which Justice Darley
flogged no more. That illustrates one type of flogee.
He whose lashings were remitted by Chief Justice
Darley was similar in temperament to a man, a
recalcitrant prisoner, whom 1 long ago saw flogged
at Pentridge Stockade. He was brought out look-
ing like a mad ghost; at the first lash he stiffened
himself up and howled; at the second he emitted a
wild shriek and strained at his bonus-; later on, he
gave the awful sort of groan that you hear from the
injured horse which lies dving in agony beside the
steeplechase fence. Then his head fell to one side
and he became limp and silent, whereupon the acting
gaol-surgeon, a young friend of mine who has since
climbed high, stopped the orgy of insensate savagery
which insulted his instincts as an educated medical
man and a civilised human being. The other type
of flogee whom I met was a man of 36 years, one
j| — J who had been awarded the awful penalty of
50 lashes. The flogger was a sturdy ex-convict,
with whom R had quarrelled in gaol.- R——,
an ex-soldier, a splendidly set-up man of sft. 10m.,
and perhaps 12st., on being triced up to the triangles,
glared at the flogger and quietly remarked that he
was “a mean hound” to take such a billet, but
that, after all, it was all that could be expected of
“such a sneak.” The third or fourth lash brought
blood- —the, flogger was evidently taking revenge—
but, incredible as it may seem, R never winced
throughout, and, toward the end, when his back
looked like a section of fresh sea-mullet, he turned
round and contemptuously smiled at his tormentor.
“Forty-seven, forty-eight,” said the adamantine pri-
soner, counting the strokes aloud, “lay it on, you
miserable son of a ! Forty-nine! Now put it
all in, you crawler! Fifty! Domino!” On being
unstrapped he calmly wrapped round his body a
towel which was tendered him, and coolly remarked, as
he walked away with a warder, that he was a man
anyhow, and not “a thing” like the fellow who had
done him a mean trick in gaol, and then gloried in
trying to take it out of his hide because lie' had
pounded his head before the governor. Those two
cases illustrate how tremendously disproportionate
nominally the same lash-punishment may be in two
different cases. , , ~
The Australian Supreme Court Judge who would
revel in ma.n-fl3.ying is almost extinct, and the Execu-
tive which would back him up—thanks to Labor
in politics—has become rarer still. It is true that
the minor Bench of one province still endures the
presence of a Judge who some years ago dared to
publicly read before a great religious assembly a
panegyric on torture, and of another (also noted
as a religionist) who used to ladle out lashings
wholesale until he became utterly disgruntled by
Executive interference; but the pair now only figure ,
as causticised warts on our legal system. All the
iame, the power should be taken away, even it there
are only two who exercise it. Some States have
indeed existed for quite a long while without the
old lag-time fetich, the Lash, and the others will be
pushed’ into line when the class nature of the punish-
ment is fully understood.
_— —■♦—
The Tragedy of Being Honest.
After allowing a decent interval to elapse
Bkucl Smith wrote to the press concerning
the launching of the Warrego. He mention-
ed his unwillingness to “perform the func-
tions of a wet blanket,” but was forced to
own that the proceedings were “distinctly
insular, parochial, and on the whole un-
worthy. . . . whilst the ludicrous attempt
to drag in a sort of apostrophe to civil free-
dom was a hollow mockery to a glorious
sentiment, and a transparent insult to the
memories of that audience. And he yet
again registered Ins unshakeable belief i
Dreadnausea, and announced that he cou
"go further, and produce correspondence
from Lord Tweedmoutii, confirmed by
later correspondence from Sir Harry Haw-
son,” to prove that hired defence was the
only worthy naval policy for a self-respect-
ing Commonwealth. This dogged adherence
to a cause which is utterly lost is character-
istic of Bruce Smith, and provides a useful
lesson or Horrible Example for aspiring
voung “Liberals.” The member for I arkes
is probably the only real Anti-Socialist in
the so-called Anti-Socialist party. He would
hand the railways over tal.riva.te Enter
prise to-morrow if he .could,; and do away
with the State tramway system, even though
it meant reverting to the old arrangement
whereby a private omnibus Co. charged Is. a
head to carry people from King-street (Syd-
ney) to Darling Point. He stul regaids
Early Closing and Pure Food legislation ,as
interferences with the law of supply and de-
mand and assaults upon the lmerty of ■ the
subiect He is a Freetrader —net one of the
bogus Cooic-Wilks-Fuller brand, but the
real article. If he were given the chance
he would afflict the Commonwealth with
complete Freetrade to-morrow, and be found
subsequently arguing among the rums that
it was not the policy, but the dreadful wea-
ther, or the prevalence of goats la Turkestan,
or something, which had done the damage.
He would swamp Australia with cheap nig-
gers from India, S’Africa, and Ceylon, and
would denounce those Australians who de-
clined to treat their fellow subjects of color
as brothers and sisters. In fact, Bruce
Smith is a genuine Anti-Socialist, a genuine
Freetrader, and a genuine Imperialist.
Dozens of his colleagues in both federal
Houses claim all these titles, but they a^ e
frauds. They do not dare, theft; days, to
deposit so much as one oratorical blossom on
the grave of Freetrade. They are more So-
cialistic where it is a question of seed wheat,
show subsidies, or anything else which
touches their own or their supporters inter-
ests, than the “Socialists” themselves; and
they would not have a fragment of Austra-
lia’s existing Socialism wiped out tor worlds.
Their love for the Empire’s nigger is a purely
academic passion. They would rather sleep
in the yard than share a room with him, and
they would rather see their fernum offspring
dead than married to him. And what is
Bruce Smith’s reward for being the only
consistent member of his party ? This the
party has enthusiastically agreed to make
him its Ishmael ! Here is a man of ad-
mitted probity, a King’s Counsel, the holder
of the safest seat, in Australia, and an ex-
perienced Parliamentary hand. iet tor
vears past he has not been oifered office,
and it is unlikely that he ever will be of-
fered it. If the narty organisation could
have ousted him from Parliament at the
time of the Financial Agreement Referen-
dum, it would have been delighted to do so.
Ignoramuses of the Joe Cook brand are
placed in authority over him, and mediocri-
ties like Quick are preferred to him. He
is looked on as “impossible”—because he
holds the views about defence, fiseplism, so-
cial legislation.' etc., which “Liberalism is
trying to forget it held the other day. The
moral which the case of B. Smith provides
for the ambitious “Liberal” is that it is ad-
visable for the ambitious Liberal to be
brisk in “reneging” on hi% convictions the
moment the party bosses give the office.
There is nothing which more exasperates
“Liberalism” than a “Liberal” oolitician who
is the same sort of “Liberal’ on Tuesday
that he was the previous Saturday.
The Sydney Evening Bloodstain last week
pictured N.S.W. as a stupid but respectable
old charwoman in the Federal pawnshop,
with a wooden railway locomotive under her
arm. Attorney-General Hughes was smirk-
ing behind the counter and looking hungrily
at the engine, while “Friend” Wade was
hanging round the door like an unemployed
hero-actor, and darkly advising the addled
old ladv to look at the pictures of the ruined
Post Office and Defence Department on the
wall before she pawned her mechanical toy.
The cartoon represented the case for State
Frights in all its rolled-gold glory. But, on
the next page, the bald-headed commercial
page, which doesn’t care a turnip about cur-
rent politics, after mentioning tersely that
weevil had made its appearance in the un- ;
sheltered wheat stacked down by Southern
Riverina railway stations, and that some. of
the grain would be unfit for local milling
or shipping oversea, went on to say:—
Some of the N.S.W. shippers and millers have been
taught a severe lesson this summer and autumn in
regard to buying wheat in the country districts. It
is probable "that next season they will only buy
wheat for delivery on trucks (country railway
stations), in order to throw the responsibility of the
stacking, and of finding trucks, on to the growers.
Hitherto it has been customary for the responsibility
of the wheat-growers to cease as soon as the approved
wheat sold is delivered at country railway stations,
and thp purchaser has had to bear the loss of subse-
quent damage to wheat (in the bags) through lack
of sheds, tarpaulins, or other shelter, when rain falls.
Such damage has this season been very heavy.
It is a pathetic instance of bow hard it is
to make the writers who deal in facts and
prices agree with the artists who deal in fic-
tion and pictures.
♦ '
“Aural” : I want to throw a clod at the
Defence Department. Barmedman (N.S.W.)
has formed a rifle club of 40 or more active
members. The first letter to the Depart-
ment was written two and a-half years ago.
and the Department took 12 months to send
an unsatisfactory reply. The determined
little township pegged away, however, and
iu another 12 months got the funds to build
a range. Another few months of masterly
delay, and then the Department sent 2S
rifles for 40 of Australia’s most enthusiastic-
defenders. Twenty of these weapons are
single-shot crossbreds —something between a
Gatling gun and a torpedo tube. More-
over, 100 rounds per annum constitutes each
member’s full allotment of ammunition.
Fortunately, these fellows say : “Well, even
if they think it’s enough we know it isn t,
so they buy another 1000 or so with the egg-
money. And they do more than that. Some
of the members are young farmers who come
as much as 15 miles to the range. Others,
who live nearer, leave immediately after their
shoot, and take charge of the working teams
to allow some other chaps the chance of an
hour’s practice. It’s men of this kind who
are cold-shouldered by the Department. An-
other thing, though this has nothing to do
with the Defence people. These farmers
defence clubs often practise on Sundays
where the Wowser voice is not loud in the
land ; it is often the young farmer’s only heme
of becoming an effective defender of his
country. But at Coolamon recently some of
them were fined by a misguided magistrate
for “shooting for sport',” as he called it.
Evidently this lawgiver never heard of the
little brown man, or the treaty that is to
run out in 1916.
Professor Anderson Stuart is an illus-
tration of how a man may receive the high-
est education, and still not know where bad
whisky may be bought. Speaking at the
National No-License Conference, held at
Sydney last week, he said:—
Very often people put down their misfortunes to
bad whisky. They could take his word, as one who
had been President of the Board of Health, that it
was all fudge. Seldom, or very rarely, was any
deleterious adulteration found in whisky. It was
adulterated with water, and it would be better, it
more water were put in it.
It isn’t so long ago that Ridley’s Wine and
Spirit Trade Circular (London) raised,
an outcry against the Commonwealth Spirits
Act, which requires, before a Government
certificate of merit is issued, that whisky
must have been distilled wholly from barley-
malt by a pot still, or similar process, at a
strength not exceeding 85 over proof; must
have been matured while subject to the con-
trol of the Customs by storage in wood tor a
period of not less than two years ; and must,
have been certified by an officer to. be pure
malt whisky. Practically ; none ot the un*
ported whiskies carried a Government guar-
antee, and reliable evidence as to their
quality or age is not obtainable. Ridley s
advanced the argument that the Comuion-
wealth certificate would be fraudulently used
by “unscrupulous traders”; and the. fact
that such traders exist is backed by the re-
cent statement of a “trade” paper in Mel-
bourne, that “thousands of e-allons ot so-
ealled whiskv are shipped to Australia every
year —beverages that have not been within
hundreds of miles of Scotland or Ireland,
and have neither age, quality nor any other
good point to recommend them. It Pro-
fessor Anderson Stuart ever gets stung by
some of the cheap, raw spirit that passes for
whisky at race meetings, sports grounds, and
numerous taverns in and out of Sydney, he
will know what he was mistaken for when he
reads the sign over the door, “Refreshments
for man and beast!”
The Australian Stinking Fish party,
fortunately, doesn’t get all its own way-
abroad : the good works which the mud
slingers vilify are regarded on their merits
occasionally. Thus, an overwhelming ma
jority of the United States’. Immigration
Commission, which has been sitting for foui
years, and has lately presented its report,
enthusiastically supports some such system
as the Australian “literacy test. At one
blow,” commented London Times, this
would exclude about a third of the people
from Southern and Eastern Europe, who at
present land in the U.S.A. That, how
ever, is done deliberately, the idea being to
limit immigration to those most likely (1) to
prove useful to America, (2) to help and
not hinder the economic development ot the
country, (3) to become good citizens and
(4) not to lower the standard of living
among the wage earners. The undesirable
alien receives special from the
Commission. - It proposes that Chinese im-
migration shall remain forbidden: that the
law as to Japanese immigration shall stay
as it is, provided existing regulations work
satisfactorily 7: and that an understanding be
arrived at with Britain to keep out Hindoos.
\s America is one of the countries to which
Stinking Fish triumphantly pointed as proof


No Household
Should ever be without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment; a reliable remedy for cuts,
bruises, aches, pains, rheumatism and lumbago.
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
BEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jordan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
International Patents and Trade
Makes. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
[HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of/Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYPNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE
The LARGEST WORKS in Australia
in the oil engine line are those of the
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
at Woolwich Dock, Sydney.
Marine Oil Engines, for Heavy Duty, Semi-
Heavy Duty, or Speed ; 2£ to 100 h.'p.
Stationary & Portable Oil Engines, for running
shearing* plants, chaffcutters, irrigation works
etc. Vertical or Horizontal. Up to any power *
Motor Accessories. Magnetos, Coils, Accumu-
lators, Spark Plugs, Schehler Carburettors, etc.
Motor Repairs. All kinds of motor repairs done
at reasonable rates. Crank shafts and cylinders
made, gears cut, etc.
Five Years’ Guarantee given with every
Invincible Engine.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works: Woolwich Dock, Sydney.
Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street, Sydney; 519 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne ; Bank Street, Adelaide.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lily of the
Valley
Natural.
Night.
■Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes char m
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
sd&./v:
. •
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
of the advantages of unrestricted immigra-
strfoted—n ne - Vey F as wholl y unre-
the Commissions report ought to
produce a withdrawal and an apology or
FF. , Butlt won’t. Stinking Fish neither
letracts nor apologises. If he is bowled
out m a lie in sayine that the whiting was
!'i Ver i replies calmly that anyhow
the nathead ‘hums” horribly.
♦
From an Australian mother, the mistress of
<i large school:—
niPin P,ain n., Spe( ' cl ' - on a Ghastly Subject” (B.
V*/ 1 1)■ lbc question is one most vital to the
race, an,, particularly so to women who are to be,
or, like myself, who are already, mothers. We
women who, fortunately for ourselves, lead shel-
tered lives, pride ourselves on our modesty ; but it
uould be better for our less fortunate sisters, and
our S0I ? S > if w e were more truly moral and
a little less modest.
Tropical Australia is a hotbed of disease; in fact,
' ntJ f \ ??w the condition of the native women of
the Nor--West coast towns, this subject had never con- *
in™l d n me - . 1 went North with lung trouble, hav-
ing been obliged to give up my profession. I left
there at the end of three years, perfectly cured;
S, a ® * love ii fe . I feel grateful to the North,
vhich really ought to be God’s own country \nd
'LT?Zt he weren’t for the ghastly phase The
whor<f TI T ®P® aks ?f> bu f that obtrudes itself every-
-1 dld a Jl F le • nursin £> hoping to be able to
, up , a ne w profession as I regained strength, but
J Sl njply couldn t go on, it was too revolting. I
talked the matter over with Dr. one of the
®°. lentific !, thinkers in Australia, but to some
fhmnsh his habit of plain speaking.
r , le , the Ivorth, too, but, looking ahead, saw
®. fr I °oo I tL ni T? aCe t 0 white occupation unless steps
such as The Bulletin suggests are taken. I have
left my only son, a youth of 18, in Broome to look
utter our remaining interest in a pearling venture;
but what doubts I have! He is such a fine young
Australian, six feet high, and with perfect phy-
sique, but, like other men, he will have to buy his
“rr„ C ,r and IF W easil y happen is horrible
and revolting. Though lam neither a prude nor
a Wowser, I should welcome legislation which
would keep women out of the hotels bars of the
North; for, as to many of them, it is really a libel
on the sex to call them “women.” Whether only
a bad class takes service there, or whether they
deteriorate from their subsequent experiences, is not
tor me to decide; but it would be better for them
hnvLf> ma ? y °f the }r customers if they had been
buried the day they landed.
Talking of being buried, when I left Broome only
one white woman had ever been buried there, and
not a white child, which speaks well for the climate.
Ihe men who marry and settle down and are fairly
temperate have nothing to fear, nor the women
cither; but unfortunately married life is the excep-
A stop should be put to the common and
dangerous practice of employing voting forms
to advertise party aims and ideas. Through-
out the last weeks of the Referenda cam-
paign electors have been confronted at
every turn with staring posters, made up
alter the manner of voting slips, headed
F t mJ ote ’” with a heay y cross opposite
uf- , newspapers have persistently
published the forms with the same manipula-
tion. This is not argument; it is simply a
flagrant misuse of the voting forms, intended
to deceive the elector under a cunning pre-
tence of enlightening him. The “Yes” party
was drawn to adopt the same device in seif
defence, but the practice should be declared
corrupt and illegal, no matter who has
hitherto been guilty of it.
Another of Victoria’s Wages Boards has
bumped against a dead end. The Carters
and Drivers’ Board arrived at a determina-
tion which, besides covering journeymen’s
wages and. hours, dealt with apprentices and
other details. The_ Chief Inspector declared
these latter regulations ultra vire&s and de-
sired the Board to obliterate them. The
Board refused ; whereupon the Chief Secre-
tary communed with the Crown Solicitor,
who also said the Board was exceeding its
powers. On this advice the Government
sent the memo, back to the Board once more.
But that body stood firm, and remarked that
it was regulating the conditions of the in-
dustry, and it wasn’t going to budge. And
as there is no appeal to the Full Court, and
as Victoria hasn’t even got an Arbitration
Court to settle the dispute, the whole busi-
ness is hung un indefinitely.
“Pat O’Maori” : An Aboliar who has strayed
into the wilderness of one of the weeklies
supplies further data to assist my investiga-
tions regarding the habits of snakes and
loans. Meeting a dangerous reptile on an
open plain, this Aboliar threw a boot at it,
and the snake, seeing no other cover,
promptly crawled into the No. 12, and filled
it with serpentine laughter. He then threw
his other boot, and succeeded in dislodging
the mirthful enemy. ■ The story ends there;
and I feel somehow that it is not convincing.
A really humorous snake would have crawled
into the second boot, and so doubled the
effective horsepower of the joke. Curiously
enough lou Ward acts exactly as the
Aboliar in question did. His notion is that
by throwing a second boot of Maoriland
credit he can dislodge the snake that has
taken possession of the first; but, as every
person who has sampled Cohen’s liquor is
aware, that snaae will call up his whole
family to assist him, and occupy just as
many boots as may happen to be thrown.
If the boot-throwing policy continues,
louseph Ward will soon be dancing round
in his stocking soles, wishing that he had
as many extremities as a centipede, or that
he could call his Dreadnought from China
to open fire on the unsportsmanlike reptiles
who have commandeered the national elastic-
sides.
A case heard in last week’s District Court
clamored for a Greater Sydney. A bridge was
built many years ago between two of the 40-odd
pocket-handkerchief boroughs of the metropolis.
It began to crumble through age, and, while the
two boroughs wrangled, its senile decay accumu-
lated. Finally, one of the councils decided to
condemn the bridge, pull it down, and replace it
by a foot-bridge. This reform was duly carried
out; but the penny-wise council built the new
bridge with the timber out of the old one. Recently
a little toddler of about three years pulled part of
the concern over, and a post fell on him ana broke
his leg. Hence Law, £3O damages and Costs.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
" OTAIi “ Onr Miss Gibbs.’
Criterion “The Woman in the Case.”
Adelphi “ xiie Bad Girl of the Family.”
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Palace West’s Pictures.
lvou Rickards’ Vaudeville. Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “The Belle of Brittany.”
Princess’s “ The Dawn of a To-Morrow.”
ING ’ S “ Risrht. is Might.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
♦ -
“Our Miss Gibbs’’ shows no disposition to
throw up her place. She even went through
the Easter holidays without finding out that
her mother had been taken seriously ill, and
that filial love demanded an instant depart-
ure to the bedside. The old address, the
Sydney Royal, still finds the constant maid.
*• * * *
There is nothing to be said about “Jack
and the Beanstalk,” at her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney, save that the former is well, and the
latter still growing, while the multitude is
crowding to watch the proceedings with un-
abated enthusiasm.
** * *
If the first act were as good as the other
three, the Sydney jury would by this time
have returned with a verdict that “The Wo-
man in the Case” deserves at least an honor-
able mention if not a blue ribbon. True,
there is the very doubtful bad woman to be
considered, and she doesn’t intrude in the
first act. Clyde Fitch evidently had trouble
with that lady. He had to invent one who
would captivate three men of different types.
Not one of the three was a high type ; yet a
later_ inspection deepens The Bulletin’s
first impression that the woman in the case,
as she is played at the Criterion, would
not snare more than two, and probably only
one, out of the three, inferior types as they
are.
** * *
At the Adelphi (Sydney) “The Bad Girl
of the Family” continues her career of bad-
ness amidst the loud applause and manifest
appreciation of considerable numbers of
people. A philosopher once said, “He who
grieves at sin is a saint,” and if that is
correct, saints must have unanimously black-
balled the Adelphi. Anyhow, there is no
grief on the premises.
“OUR MISS
GIBBS." AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Hughie, the amateur crook (Leslie Holland),
getting his hand in on Timothy Gibbs (Bertie
Wright).
At the Tivoli, R. A. Roberts, who is his
own co., and draws all the salaries, is just
dow seven people in the piratical sketch,
‘Cruel Coppinger.” It deals with the days
when the pirate-smuggler wore a red or
cocked hat instead of a bell-topper, and took
risks in a draughty cave on tbe sea-front, in-
stead of sitting in an electrically-heated
plate-glass office, and sebding underpaid
clerks out to take them at the Custom House.
After inspecting Coppinger, one yearns to
transform the frock-coated brigands and their
bundles of invoices into picturesque outlaws
with belts stuffed with pistols. Peggy Pryde,
Conjurer Leipzig, Tom Dawson and a couple
of new and smart girl acrobats complete the
first line of the entertainment.
** * *
At Ascot (Sydney) Racecourse, last
Saturday afternoon, Hammond, on his Bris-
tol bi-plane, twice climbed about 100 feet
into thin air, and flew round the track and
over the heads of the cheering crowd who
had paid to see the performance. If he had
been a less polite aviator, he might have
taken up a crate of inferior eggs on his
second flight, and dropped them on the
people who stood on the seats of their motors
and looked over the fence like poverty-
stricken milk-ohs. The strong-looking Bris-
tol sped evenly through the air and dipped
gracefully back to earth, the wheels taking
the ground without any perceptible jolt.
During the first flight, a couple of wander-
ing sea-birds from Botany Bay, close by,
winged after it as if they recognised a
friend. Demonstrations are being given
every calm afternoon this week.
* » * se
Slapoffski and the Sydney Amateur Or-
chestral Society had the first concert of
their season, and, simultaneously, their
first success, one evening of last week. And
Alfred Hill shared in the triumph; for he
took Slap.’s place on the stand to lead the
Orchestra through his own bewitching
“Maori Lament” —a weirdly picturesque
performance, which did not suffer at all by
comparison with Vincent d’lndy’s “La Foret
Enchant6e,” a comparatively new symphonic
legend, heard for the first time in England
at the end of 1909. There are, neverthe-
less, some very delightful passages for the
harps on this imported number. Dvorak’s
“New World” symphony was, as usual, too
heavy for the consumption of even the mod-
erately musical. The wonderful overture
to “Die Meistersinger” was a more welcome
contribution—though Slapoffski’s stick had
a devil in it sometimes that looked as
though it wanted to bite the heels of some
sluggards.
** * *
“The Fatal Wedding,” which Spencer
einematographed recently, and is now show-
ing at Sydney ’ iyceum, lends itself to pic-
ture reproduction better than it does to act-
ing. The thing is spectacular, and some
of the situations have thrills in them, while
the drivel of the “book” is unheard. The
result is that the picture-goer gets his
money’s worth, while the old theatre-goer
got too much. The play was staged and
filmed at Bondi, Sydney, and the operator
was not the Higgins, but younger brother
Arthur. Cinematography seems to run in
that family, and the choice of light does
the stripling credit.
** * *
The Circus Editor of The Bulletin has
come to the conclusion, after a long thought
with a dash of lemonade in it, that it is
time Wirtlis’ big show in Prince Alfred
Park, Sydney, moved on. During the past
few weeks the public has got the habit of
going round after tea every night to watch
the performing horses and other wild ani-
mals, instead of stopping home to read the
leaders in the morning papers, or attending
the meetings of disinterested and heroic
statesmen like Gregory Wade. And this
is not as it should be. This paper has no
quarrel with Wirths’ Circus, or even with
Wirths’ whisky. Both are excellent, as cir-
cuses and whiskies go; but the trouble is
that too much of them is dangerous. For
instance, if the crowds that have been study-
ing Lizzie, the hippo., had instead studied
the urgent needs of their hobbled country,
would there ever have been any doubt of the
Referenda being carried? Therefore, this
journal calls upon the Wirths to furl the
menagerie and go. In any case, it is be-
coming more difficult to write something new
about the show; and if the blood-sweating
hippopotamus is there next week, it will have
to write its own notice.
** * *
“The Merry Widow” reintroduced its kiss
and cuddle at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) last Sat-
urday night. As of yore, Miss Young appears
in the part of the widow Sonia, with Reg
Roberts as de Jolidon,and Percy tucked nicely
into the character of Baron Popoff. Roberts’s
singing part is very heavy ; and a “throat”
hasn’t made it any easier for him. The
music, however, _ suits him admirably. As
Natalie, Miss Olive Godwin wears half Hat-
ton Garden on her fingers, and sings to the
utter gratification of the big audiences. Vic-
tor Prince is entombed in the part of Mar-
quis de Gascada; Arthur Lissant is General
Novikovich; and Charles Albert is a sober
and punctilious Mr. Nisch. As a nearly
lugubrious Prince Danilo, Frank Greene
gives a lengthy exposition of the mezzo sob.
On occasion his rendering seems a little tear-
ful, though in moments of passion he is
capable of strange, staccato thunder. Chorus
and scenery are as good as usual, and the
orchestra preserves its impeccable behavior.
* * * *-
Although far from being the best example
of its kind, “Paid in Full,” the American
domestic drama, which still runs at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, demonstrates that, given
pretty good material, six people can amuse
an audience as well as 60 or 600. The cast
of “Paid in Full” contains six names, yet
the performance is really a better one than
that nf the army employed in “Jack and the
Beanstalk.” This should be an influential
consideration in persuading managers to put
some dash into the good work of educating
the taste of the playgoer. The early advts.
mentioned that “Arms and the Man”—an-
other very small-cast play—would follow
Compiete Discharge of the Debt- but
"The Dawn of a To-morrow” is to appear
instead. The change happens on Saturday
evening.
** * *
Since its first performance at the Mel-
bourne Royal, “The Belle of Brittany” has
improved in a few particulars. The cook
is a brighter Stone than he was, though there
are times when he is still as matter-of-fact
as a granite pediment. Miss Lait has also
grown a trifle more charming, and Miss Gil-
liam is steadily reducing her attitudes to
the status of pretty mannerisms. On the
other hand, nobody will ever mistake Harold
Thorley for the weather; he is unchangeable.
As the romantic Raymond, in this play, he is
a living expostulation against the virtue of
energy.
* * #• *
At. the King’s they are still preaching the
doctrine that Right is Might, with a ver-
bosity suggesting that Right is Skite. These,
however, a.re the last nights of the cowboy
play, for it will be withdrawn early next
week, and probably be exported with the com-
pany to Maoriland. On Saturday, May 6,
Anderson s No. 1 Co. is expected to reappear
in a version, it is whispered, of “The Sor-
rows of Satan.” In the meantime the
Arion Society is preparing to nil in a few
evenings with an amateur revival of “La
Mascotte.”
** * *
. Miss Florence Cromer Challis, with the
nice, bare feet and the incidental songs, has
stolen into the bill at the Opera House, Mel-
bourne. For the rest the Perezoff's are still
coursing through their animated supper with
a careless disregard for the crockery. The
Zanfrellas continue their skilful turn ; Eunice
and Zena are filling the house with bugle
noises; but the vocally pleasing Columbia
Trio have passed on. These Columbia peo-
ple # are also humorists: but those who prefer
their comedy to their singing appear to this
commentator to be possessed of a sort of in-
tellectual squint.
“A Wreath of Orange Blossoms,” shown
at the Melbourne address of West last week,
concerns the usual snake which pushes into
a domestic Eden with heaps of cash and a
poisonous tongue. Soon he attracts the lovely
wife and leads her to the verge of an indis-
cretion. But suddenly, when he calls to
claim the lady, he finds her in the grip of a
Nonconformist conscience. The audience
cheers as she struggles to resist his diaboli-
cal fascination. And it roars with delight
when she declines to change from a husband’s
affinity to the spoilt annex of a Tertium
Quid.
#* # *
The Prahran Lyric (Vic.) has been screen-
ing “Tarquin the Proud,” a fragment of an-
cient Roman history. The film is a hand-
somely-tinted production, and the tale is
mimed by a Dago group accomplished in the
gestures of love and hate. Present programmes
at the Lyric, by the way, contain nothing so
popular as Red Indian dramas. These
things are crude in story and construction,
and always picture the deeds of braves look-
ing overclad in a girdle and a lick of paint.
Yet the picture-public loves these yarns with
a red-meat lust for the savage and primeval.
** * *
The whimsicalities of “Alice in Wonder-
land” will be related by Miss Maud Grantham
at the Melbourne Masonic to-morrow even-
ing. The clever lady, of whom this paper
has pleasant recollections, is elocuting in
aid of the new surgical ward of the Chil-
dren’s Hospital.
** * *
Adelaide certainly as the ideal city
for out-door summer shows. While other
Australian capitals have been getting floods,
Adelaide has not had since Christmas any-
thing more than a useful shower. “The
Dandies” have had a good time on the Exhi-
bition terrace, working gradually into pro-
nounced popularity under Dampier’s man-
agement. Miss Vere (Mrs. Dampier) has
been out of the bill latterly, with typhoid.
The farewell night was an occasion. Mean-
while the same Branscombe management is
running the very similar “Scarlet Trouba-
dours” at the new Kihg’s. The bright and
clever Williamson youngsters, at the Royal,
are presenting “Florodora,” and Henry
Bracy has been testing Adelaide voices, to
which—girls only—he gives a high charac-
ter. Unley,_ a'“city” suburban to Adelaide,
has started its annual competitions, which
claim to be already second only to those of
Ballarat. They began in a small local way,
but have since spread to open entries and
big prizes. Frank Harwood is at the Tivoli;
so are the clever juggling Kavanaghs, and
Cooper and Lait, who at any rate work
hard m their one-act plays. As for the vari-
ous picture-shows, they are still increasing
in number. The Empire gives “Hamlet,”
as played in London, and also a Babv
beauty-show. West’s give “Hamlet,” as
played on the spot in Denmark, and also the
Sydney surf-bathing girls. The Wonder-
graph crowd retorts with “The Merchant of
Venice.


sd
jptpf
ism
IT!
p w> w
Prl
*s'
3
.JU
iiWhere the
' 90 -
SACSUIT
CostsV^
. gg* fi
6
tot Cash
fsd
Motor Street Cleaners.
The Renault Co. of Paris appear to he always
leading the world in automobile matters, and
their latest achievement is the supplying to the
city of Paris a number of motor-driven street
sweepers. The experiment is a distinct success,
and our city council would do well to enquire into
such an invention.*
Keep it
On Hand
J
SCHNAPPS.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Ola Jane Humphreys marries Ibrahim Hassan,
cousin of the Khedive. The Bulletin trusts she
will not spoil the Egyptian.
Walter Bentley (running a successful “college of
education and dramatic art” in Sydney nowadays)
clears up a few things: Is it my turn to speak yet?
If it is—referring, of course, to some recent enter-
taining Poverty Point pars—let me first plead guilty
to all the Brisbane enisodes related by “Condot”
(B. 20/4/’ll) save that I bought Saturday Night
as a going concern, and disposed of it in the same
way. The pigeon episode I conducted personally,
dispatching the birds from a steamer in the bay.
But the New York business is quite out of my line.
Who the Rev. Jack Costello may be I do not know;
but in all my experiences (and I admit they have
been varied) I never became a parson, and never
had any connection with a church in New York or
elsewhere as its rector. The nearest approach to
preaching was made by me on a voyage from Liver-
pool to New York, when I read the lessons and a
sermon, there not being a parson on board—for a
wonder. I do not know what might happen to me
yet; but I think the parson habit is one 1 won’t be
able to acquire.
Adelaide has had one of those comic theatrical
lawsuits that are more common in London than in
Australia. One of the “Gay Gordons” ladies sued
Fred Winn, the manager, for 12 weeks’ salary at £4
a week, he having, she said, dismissed her because she
declined to dress in the same room with another
“Gay Gordon” lady, whose language was Really Too
Much. Winn’s defence was that he had dismissed
nobody, but he certainly had said she could not have
a room to herself. Anderson, the new K.C., simply
revelled in plaintiff’s cross-examination. She pro-
tested that she herself did not swear, but might
say “Damn!” occasionally. Other questions took
this, form: “Didn’t you refer to Miss Y.’s father’s
low-down pub in Birmingham?” “Didn’t you say
she couldn’t have got on with So-and-So (big London
manager) unless she was familiar with him?”
“Didn’t she then say that, as you tried to get on
with him and failed, he must be particular whom
he is familiar with ?” The answer was always “No” ;
but, as a counsel hardly dare suggest remarks like
that unless he proposes to try to prove them later,
Miss Y.’s evidence was awaited with much interest.
And then the unfeeling Bench stopped the case, with
: a verdict for Winn, just as Miss Y. had entered the
box.
THE ARTIST McCUBBTNS , SEN. AND
JUN , OF MELBOURNE.
The latest to drop into the picture business are
Roland Staveley and Sidney Stirling’, erst mummers-
in-ordinary to J. C. Williamson. The pair have
engaged a slice of the Melbourne Exhibition, which
they will open on May 2 as the People’s Permanent
Picture Palace, at Painfully Popular Prices.
Harry Musgrove, .junr.. pocket edition of the
Family, was married at Melbourne this week. Mus-
grove is the man in a perpetual hurry. Only a few
ears ago, as a very young muzzy, hie was learning
he value Of advertising as a member of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph commercial staff; then Edwin
Geach took him over to help run the Wests’ busi-
ness; before Geach kgew what had happened, Mus-
grove bad appointed himself secretary;. and when
old-man West looked in lately, about the. first thing
he had to do was to sign Musgrove: on as a partner.
And he did it with a good grace.
“L.H.P.”: I am afraid “The Flowers of the
Forest” (1849) and “The Green Bushes” (1845), so
rapturously praised, by .“Earthworm” (B. 30/3/’ll),
are now back numbers. The last time I saw “The
Green Bushes” was in 1886, with the late Grattan
Riggs as Wild Murtagh, supported by Bob Inman as
Kennedy, and Emma Bronton in Celeste’s great part,
Miami, the huntress of the Mississippi. But l«ggs
found “The Irish Detective ” and Boucicault paid
better, and rarely put on Buekstone’s play for more
than a few nights. Neither did the Gattis find
“The Green Bushes” a money-maker in their native
home, the London Adelphi, where in the early 80 s
they elaborately revived it, with Terriss, Kate
Rorke, John L. Shine, Clara Jecks, etc., in the cast.
The fact is, both pieces, like all Buckstone’s melo-
dramas, are out of date. In the ’4o’s, picturesque
gipsies, impossible robbers, daring smugglers, dash-
ing brigands were popular at the Adelphi. Buck-
stone was also lucky in his two low comedians
Edward Wright and Paul Bedford. They, like other
authors of the period, wrote only skeleton parts for
these two inveterate “gaggers,” who, after a while,
usually abandoned the text altogether and trusted to
their own resources. An attempt was made some
years ago to revive “The Flowers of the Forest”;
but the London audience only laughed at what they
called the old-fashioned twaddle. And as it was
then interpreted, they were not far wrong. Yet
modern melodrama, with all its startling effects,
has given the Anglo-Australian stage nothing more
impressive than the last scene of this play.
“Exile” (from Fogtown) : For the benefit of
Coronators, let me mention that the Empire and the
Alhambra are still the most entrancing places in this
hamlet. For one thing they provide plenty of room
to walk about, plenty of room to sit down and the
most comfortable seats in Christendom. At each
man’s elbow is a stand for his whisky and soda and
his cigar. And when the show palls there is the
promenade. Here the hedonist and the voluptuary
can see the most extraordinary market in the world
carried on decorously and acording to law. Dozens
of beautiful women, richly and fashionably,. dressed,
ambulate around silently and gracefully. The
visitor is never accosted. That is against the rules.
But he may accost ; and he is never rebuffed. The
bars are gorgeous and highly expensive, and if you
ask for a cup of tea, two doctors attached to the
theatre immediately “certify,” and you are removed
from kith and kin. The show at each place covers
the usual music-hall agenda, excepting that the Em-
pire and Alhambra ballets are unequalled anywhere.
“Pea Nut”: The development of the old, original
“Press representative,” or puff paragraphist, into a
skilled purveyor of facts and fiction, is a very not-
able feature of theatrical enterprise these times.
No management can cut much ice without the ser-
vices of a gossip-monger, of some pretensions as a
journalist, who issues to the Press in type-written
form a ceaseless flow of paragraphic matter concern-
ing the show and all people and things connected
therewith. Spme of the feeblest shows give oppor-
tunity for the' most impressive newsmongering; some
of the most ordinary mummers are good subjects for
extraordinary anecdotes, and some of the smallest
truths can be magnified into an appearance of im-
portance. Then, made up in a packet, more or
less skilfully mixed, items are blown like seeds into
town and country newspaper offices, to fall on stony
or fruitful ground as the case may be., We talk of
mummers as always posing in the limelight off the
stage, as though they and the newspapers, and the
women and boys who are stage-struck, were jointly
responsible for theatrical tattle. As a matter of
fact, the managers now supply most of the limelight
off the stage as well as on it. The up-to-date Press
representative is the limelight man.
“An Australian ‘At Home’ ” —who doesn’t feel it
—-sends a vehement disparagement of Maud Allan,
the Cockney dancer whose public gyrations have
made her fortune in London. She is described as
“a weird creature, ungainly, spider-limbed, and
sicklied o’er with the pale cast of pastry. I don’t
think she would draw twopence in Australia, where
theatregoers have no pathological interest,” con-
tinued the traducer. “I don’t think she would draw
much anywhere out of London. She is like some-
thing of Aubrey Beardsley’s that has come to life,
and a class of rich Cockneys watch with consumptive
curiosity to see what she will do next.”
“Melb”: The Tait presentation of “Called Back”
on the biograph is very creditable. The cast is not
pretentious, but. does fairly. The ideal in Australia
would be Beatrice Holloway as Pauline, Rignoid or
Mervale as Macari, Athol wood as Ceneri, and Roberts
as Vaughan. How well “Called Back” opens—better
than any other work of fiction, I think. You are en-
thralled on the first page. On the other hand, how
slow Dickens, Scott, Thackeray and Balzac are in
getting off. Both “Pickwick” and “Vanity Fair”
were, in fact, in danger of stoppage when they first
appeared as serials.
“Hamer”: After all, the picture-show, instead of
proving a curse, has turned out to be a blessing in
disguise to the travelling mummer.. The innumerable
shows have absorbed a large number of heavy-voiced
actors to interpret the puzzle-pictures to the aud-
iences ; whilst other mummers, who made a pre-
carious living in travelling engagements, having
raked together enough money for a cinematograph
outfit, have blossomed out as prosperous showmen.
The touring dramatic show is, therefore, not as
numerous as it used to be, and after a surfeit of
pictures” the country towns rush the comparative
rarity when it appears. In these happy circumstances
the actor’s screw has been substantially increased, and
in some well authenticated cases he has received the
whole of it.
“Billy’s Nephew”: Re “Propstick’s” estimate of
“Billy” Hoskins (B. 30/3/’ll). “Propstick” evi-
dently knows hardly anything of the man he be-
littles. My uncle was playing leads to Macready at
Sadler’s Wells in the early ’so’s. He was the ori-
ginal Cardinal Richelieu, and played that part
during 1841-2 for 101 nights. In London he was
recognised as a sterling actor; was his own lessee,
and played alternate nights with G. V. Brooke. His
subsequent career in Australia stamped him as one
of the finest Shakspearian students and a comedian
second to none, as witness his Doctor Pangloss and
Sir Peter Teazle. On September 25, 1869, he produced
in Sydney “The Tempest,” and it had a great run,
a critic of the day saying that seldom in anv first-
class theatre, even in the Old World, had a play of
Shakspeare’s been represented with greater ability
or more signal success. I have before me my uncle’s
speech—-a marvel of diction. His intellect was
great to the last, and when an old man, almost 70,
he still held the public’s regard for his impersona-
tion of old man Jaikes, which is still remembered.
Among all old actors he was generously recognised
as a fine, all-round actor; yet “Propstick” says he
had no variety! Among present-day actors, like
mv friend Harry Diver, his is still a name to con-
jure by, and he is remembered by the proud title —
“Father of the Australian stage.” “Propstick” asks
what became of his little son by his third wife. It
shows clearly that he does not know very much
about the family. And neither is it any concern
of his, otherwise I would tell him.
There is only one continuous picture-show in
Maoriland, and to the McMahons are the profits.
The Me. brothers, who were pioneers of the picture-
graph business in Australia, have fitted out a home
in Wellington (M.L.) for the newest venture, and
have named it The New Theatre.
“Briner”: The character of Captain Williams, in
the drama of “Paid in Full,” now running in Mel-
bourne, is suggested by Steinberger, an American,
who flourished in the latter part of Grant’s Presi-
dency, and had a yacht named the Peerless, for
hanky-panky in southern seas. America, England
and Germany ell coveted Samoa. Steinberger had a
grand plan to seize it for America, as Jameson planned
to seize the Transvaal. He wanted Grant to give
him authority, and Grant appears to have at least
told him that he might do what he liked without
being afraid of America treating him as a pirate.
So Steinberger went and collared the Samoan capital
and hoisted the American flag. Germany, however,
howled, and put England on the qui vive, whereupon
Captain Stevens, in H.M.S. Barracoota, a wooden
paddle-tub, well known in Sydney, went to Samoa
and toppled the intruder over. America was nettled ;
and the English Admiralty brought Stevens before
a Court Martial, and, to save appearances, repri-
manded him. ne" was like Rooke, who took Gib-
raltar. England reprimanded him—-but stuck to the
Rock.
H. B. Irving’s wife, Dorothea Baird, shortly to
play in Australia, was the original Trilbv.
“Lud”: The cast of Bulwer’s “Money,” to be
acted at Drury Lane on May 17, before the German
Emperor and King George, includes: Clara Douglas,
Irene Vanbrugh; Georgina, Miss Carlisle; Lady
Franklin, Winifred Emery; Evelyn, G. Alexander;
Vessey, Hare; Graves, Beerbohm-Tree; Blount, Cyril
Maude; Stout, Bourchier; Smooth, Charles Wynd-
ham; Glossmore, F. Terry; Sharp, Laurence Irving.
Subordinate parts are taken by such as Weedon Gros-
smith, Du Maurier, Ainley, Norman Forbes, Valen-
tine, Loraine, Lyn Harding, Esmond, Fernandez and
Boucicault. Bancroft is stage-manager. No less
than four theatrical Knights are involved, and no
Julius. Vet I will wager the performance will be
inferior; such galaxies always are. The illustrious
actors don’t know their unwonted parts.
The bosses of the theatrical profesh. in London are
doing their best to boost the cause of National De-
fence. Prior to the recent annual meeting of the
Actors’ Association at Her Majesty’s Theatre, there
was a meeting of the National Service League,
whereat Lord Roberts, the Dean of Norwich, cricketer
C. B. Fry and others joined with Beerbohm Tree,
Courtneidge and Oscar Asche in re-asserting the fact
that Britons are living in a fools’ paradise, where an
Englishman’s Home will prove' to be a poor castle if
the invader comes along. The text of the N.S.L. is
“compulsory drill,” and the theatrical managers have
undertaken to commend it to the notice of the gal-
lant armies who rally round the Flag in spectacular
drama and comic opera. Also, it is understood that
the orchestras will miss no opportunity to play “Rule
Britannia!”
Marie Corelli has written a theatrical sketch to
satirise the suffragettes. The trifle, entitled “The
Sedan Chair,” is to happen at the London Hippo-
drome. The scene is laid in a country cottage, and
there are five characters whose chief object in life
appears to be to fire epigrams at one another. Marie
expects some of them to do terrible damage to
the woman’s movement.
“Haresfoot”: When a new play comes out, take
up an old one. The effective drama, “Right is
Might,” at Melbourne King’s, is built on Robert-
son’s comedy “Progress.” A New York syndicate
wants to hook together two railroad lines in Texas,
but cannot get across Beatrice Day’s ranch. She
won’t Sell the right at any price. In “Progress”
the ranch is the English park of the Vavasours. This
earlier play was founded on the real case of the
Duke of Buckingham and Aylesbury Vale, where the
ducks come from. The Duke, like other landholders,
would not sell at all. Millions would not compen-
sate for the murder of his ancestral estate. How-
ever, when the thing had been done by main force,
he turned round, and was as pleased as the Dudleys
over their iron and coal properties. The Duke’s son,
Chandos, became, ill 1 fact, a railway magnate.
“U.S.” : I lately introduced, Poverty Point to
Dorothy Nicholson, the star of the American Bio-
graph Co. Her more powerful rival is Florence
Turner, of the Vitagraph Co. No other actress in
the world appears before so many millions. An in-
terviewer says there was only one question he dared
not ask Florence. It was whether she had descended
from the Lord’s Ancient People. He is himself con-
vinced that only one race could produce such genius.
Compare her with those French and Italian biograph
actresses, their conventional emotion, their heavings
and gaspings. But you can’t. As for other great
biograph performers, Foolshead is Signor Deed, of
Turin; Tontolini is a Roman imitator. Miss Turner
impresses upon the interviewer that the astonish-
ingly spontaneous appearance of the biograph is the
fruit of painstaking, assiduous, and minute rehearsal
of every scene. Behind the operator there will be a
ring of critics, with the inexorable stage manager
saying, “No, no, that won’t do.” “Oh,” says she,
“those pictures cause me a good deal of thought, I
assure you. Have I not laid awake thinking, think-
ing? We have a story drafted, with careful dia-
logue. The early pictures were so absurd because
the characters did not talk. See how you talk
when any crisis occurs in real life. What rapid in-
terchanges of conversation ! You must talk in front
of the camera exactly the same as if the public
would hear your voice.”
J. C. Williamson relates how, when he first pro-
duced Gilbert and Sullivan’s plays in Melbourne, the
old Irish cabman who used to drive him home was
under the impression that G. and S., whose names
he had seen up in big letters, were actors appearing
at the theatre. “Mr. Williamson,” he said one
night, “you do be havin’ two great new min at
the theaytre—-Gilbert and Sullivan. Yis, they’re
grate min. Some like Gilbert, but I like Sullivan
meself. Yis, he’s the best man, be a long way.”
Contracts have just been signed by the -‘Bohemian
Twins,” Rosa and Josefa Blazek, for a tour of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, commencing next Christmas.
Rosa and Josefa are joined together in such a man-
ner that they manage with three instead of four
hips. Rosa is married, and has an offspring, whose
coming was awaited with tremendous interest by
the medical profession, and whose arrival was de-
scribed at length by that delicate organ, the British
Medical Journal. The twins present about the
only good argument on record in favor of polygamy.
“S.S.”: Australian Socialists have all
taken Nietzsche to their bosoms, and quo£e the
inspired German exuberantly ; but they do not*
quote this from “A Glance at the State”': “To
demand equality of rights, as do the Socialists, is
by no means the outcome of justice, but of
covetousness. If you expose bloody pieces of
flesh to a beast, and withdraw them again, until
it finally begins to roar, do you think that roaring
implies justice ?” Nietzsche was, indeed, a greater
Anti-Sosh than George Reid, and I wonder-at
the Socialists’ delight in him. Of course, the
weakness of the quoted analogy, is on the surface.
To make the simile real, you must admit that the
beast hunted and killed the meat; and then the
roaring does imply justice, as when the producer
says to the monopolist: “ That’s my meat! ”
A building with a past will shortly be
demolished in Flinders-lane, Melbourne. During
the first roars of the ’so’s it was tenanted by De
Gruchy and Leigh, lithographers, who used to
publish views of infant Melbourne. In 1856, and
for a few years afterwards, it was occupied by a
compositor named Ward, who afterwards opened
as a printer in Little Collins-street, and founded
the Australian Journal, the present mild pro-
perty of the Massina people.
Thus H. S. A. Smail, a Sydney man who
has climbed high in the Civil Serviceof the Feder-
ated Malay States :
We get our labor from Sumatra and Java, and some-
times from Madras. But it is not cheap, by any means.
1 once had ideas about black labor for some kinds of work
in Australia—away at the North, you know. But after
my last few years’ experience I am for White Australia all
the time.
Which only goes to show that .T. Caesar was right
when he said to the humiliated Caractacus:
“Carac, old chafer, an ounce of experience is
worth a ton of theory.”
Conservatism lost another joint in its tail
last Sunday at Sydney, when a “district” of the
Australian Journalists’ Association was formed at a
representative meeting of daily and weekly paper
Sressmen. Victoria, Queensland, South Aus. and
’. S. Wales are now hauling on the same line,
and the first fish they expect to land is the Regis-
trar’s decision that the A.J.A. can enter into
business relations with the Federal Arbitration
Act. The old hedgehog ideas are so rapidly being
burnt out these times that any day now may
spring from their ashes the Industrial Union of
Reformed Parsons.
The Westralian Labor party has marked
two or three of its members down for an overhaul-
ing. One or two are to have hints thrown at
them that the party can’t afford to carry passen-
gers, and that only a working crew is wanted ;
while Horan, who advised all hands to say “ No.
No” in the Referenda is to be confronted with
that and other political offences, and probabiy
invited to take his proper place outside. The
’Groper Labor camp is ruled from the goldfields ;
and the mining-field Laborite hasn’t, as a rule,
any time for the man who isn’t a whole-hogger.
The German steamer Coblenz berthed on
the western side of Sydney’s Circular Quay on
Saturday, and the British steamer Mataram
berthed on the eastern side. The Coblenz had on
board 103 Chinese coolies bound for Tahiti to
work on the plantations; the Mataram brought
50 Javanese coolies en route for the nickel mines
in New Caledonia. The South Pacific is getting
nicely populated. Both China and Java are suf-
fering from plague in its worst form. Some of
these days Sydney, as the assignation house for
these relays of cheap labor, will be called upon to
pay heavily for the honor.
Staniforth Smith was reminded of his old
Kalgoorlie days almost as soon as he had got back
from the Papuan expedition which so nearly
turned itself into a funeral for him and his whole
party. One of the first wires he received was
“My God, I am proud of you,” sent by an old
Kalgoorlie chum who had been on the spot with
Smith when Bigjohn Forrest faced the “infuri-
ated ” diggers and was accidentally poked in the
midribs with an umbrella. That brolly-poke was
magnified into a t’othersider’s murderous attack
on the ’Groper leader, whereupon that other old
’Groper, Maitland Brown, R.M., broke out by
wire into the historic hysterics.
A swift and certain movement has started
to honor one of the big little men of Sydney,
Prof. M. W. MacCallum, who this year completes
his quarter-century in the Challis chair of Modern
Literature at the University. MacCallum, who
owns the front name of Mungo (St. Mungo is the
patron saint o’Glasgie), provides an inspiriting
example of hard work leading to its own recog-
nition. A brilliant graduation at Glasgow started
him on the path. The post he left to come
to Sydney in 1886 was that of Professor of English
at Aberystwith College (University of Wales);
and even that far back he had made a reputation
by his literary articles, and had won the friend-
ship of Leslie Stephen and other eminents. In
England he was really a mediseval scholar ; in Aus-
tralia he has built up a vigorous modern school of
literary studies—English, French and German.
Twenty years ago English was a neglected sub-
ject, quite subordinated to classics ; but all that
has been changed. In between classes he has
made time to produce books on “ Tennyson and the
Arthurian Legend” and “Shakspeare’s Roman
Plays”; the latter, published last year, won
flattering criticisms. His own Drivate good
works, in the way of assisting students and so
forth, are manifold—which has gone far to make
him one of the most popular professors in Aus-
tralia. The proposal is to commission Longstaff
to paint a portrait to be hung at the University ;
any surplus is to go towards a scholarship or
something of the sort to promote the study of
modern literature.
“Pick”: In what unheard-of part of
Australia does “Crass” (B. 30/3/T1) reside
where, among an adult male population of 30,000,
none can he safely backed to hit a town hall with
a rifle at 200 yards ? In the larger cities there are
those probably who, from force of circumstances,
cannot shoot, though every city has its rifle clubs;
but the fact that in N. S. Wales alone over
27,000 men have been enrolled as voluntary rifle-
men reservists, who annually are called upon to
qualify by a course of musketry, should make it
appear even to a decayed-fish party like “Crass ”
that something is being done ; while in the coun-
try I emphatically deny that “ Crass” or anyone
else can find among every 100 phvsically-
capable men five who cannot shoot, and
shoot-well. In ray district every male over
the ag§ of 10, and many of the other sex
as "well, know all that it is to be learned
about a ; and putting on a “ possible,” or, with
a repeater, howling over a rabbit running at full
speed, is a common feat, the like of which Mere-
dith probabiy had in mind when he remarked that
“ Australians can shoot.” I have been a member
of a Smith Coast rifle club for 10 years, but have
not yet met the restrictive and exclusive condi-
tions that “Cris Crass” complains of. Our
annual subscription is a modest “ half-caser,” and
ammunition is nearly always free. Certainly rifles
are not lavishly supplied, and what are doled out
are of an antiquated pattern ; but they shoot well,
all the same, if kept in order, and any enthusiast
may purchase from the authorities a gun of his
own on the very easiest terms.
HAMLET IN HEAVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was an actor good and grand
Who won his way to Paradise;
Upon a cloud he took a stand,
And gazed about the holy band,
The angels pinioned and precise.
Came one with measured steps and slow,
With high and melancholy mein,
And pale young face, and shirt cut low.
“Here’s one at least that I should know.
Who’s this, so tragic and so lean?”
“That’s Hamlet, sir,” a saint replied;
“The Prince of Denmark, sir, you see!”
“That Hamlet? Bah!” the actor cried.
Stirred was his fine professional pride—
“ You angels wait till you’ve seen me!”
victoria.
SILAS SNELL.
THREE WORKINGMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas in “the gods’ ” Olympus packed,
Amongst the humble blokes,
I watched the funny man who cracked
The comedy’s best jokes;
He crossed his eyes—he slid and fell
With force upon the floor,
And was rewarded with a yell
Or some lone fool’s guffaw. ,
Two brawny toilers, half-asleep,
Stared glumly at the show;
Upon his knees they watched him creep,
The man who “made it go.”
They had large corns upon their hands,
And brick-dust seemed to lurk
About their nodding heads. Their arms
Were fit for any work.
Like sympathetic judges they
Looked down upon the place
Whereon the jester of the play
Dealt roughly with his face;
They listened to his frightened shouts
And watched his “comic” rage,
As all the chorus dealt him clouts
And kicked him round the stage.
Three acts of this the pair sat out,
And then the rag came down
Upon the stage folk ranged about
The breathless, bowing clown.
One toiler muttered, with a sigh,
“I pity that Jim.”
“Same ’ere” ; groaned James, “I’m glad that I
Ain’t got t’ toil like ’im!”
N.s.w.
KODAK.


sdf
Ette AUTOTHERM"
A POSITIVE REVELATION IN VACUUM BOTTLES.
■ .■ i
IN construction, cleanliness, convenience and quality, the Autotherni
Hot and Cold Bottle is absolutely unapproachable by any other
in existence. Boiling Liquid placed in one of these Flasks wifi retain
almost the same temperature for 24 hours and longer ; and Ice Cold
Liquids will remain cold for some considerable. time. Breakage is
almost impossible, as the weight of the Vacuum Bottle is borne by a
rubber buffer. There is no leakage either —for these bottles have
screw stoppers.
do Tourist Travellers, in the Sickroom or in the Nursery, the
Autotherm i% invaluable.
Illustrated here is the Autotherm, with Canvas Cover.
Pint Size ... 12/6 Quart Size ... 20 -
WE PAY CARRIAGE on these Caods to Any Address in the Commonwealth
DAVID JONES LTD., °sydney.
sdf
sd
fs
AHdVMQIOHd N9ISN3
df
ROLL
FILM
CAMERAS
From 5/- Upwards
are distinct from every other kind. Tliey embody the
very b st points of all competing lines.
WE INVITE COMPARISON of “ENSIGN”
ROLL FILM CAMERAS and those of any other
make. The difference in quality and value is as
apparent, as the noonday sun.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Australian Leaders of Quality and Value
in Pnotographic Goods.
Sydney: 386 George Street.
Melbourne: 2 36 Collins Street.
Brisbane: 93-95 Queen Street.
Adelaide: Gawler Place.
SOCIETY
Auckland (M.L.) lias just been badly
seared by the discovery of three cases of bubonic
plague, one of which was swiftly fatal. The fit of
cleanliness and rat-suppression induced by the
plague scare of a few years back soon passed, and
left the local authorities to their normal slumber.
Now that the disease has become endemic, even
the Tory Herald cries aloud for the State health
officers to be given control of the cleaning-up,
instead of the job being left to the “dirty coun-
cils.” Some idea of the condition of the slummiest
parts of the city can be got from the evidence at
the inquest on an old man who died in a stable
loose-box about a stone’s throw from the main
street,; This shelter, which housed two old men,
was so filthy that the police had to drench it with
disinfectants before they would venture in ; and,
the man’s clothes had to be removed with tongs,
and his body covered with quicklime in the coffin.
Yet only a little while back the City Council
reduced its staff of sanitary inspectors in the
glorious cause of economy and the reduction of
taxes.
A PINANCIAL CALAMITY.
EXCITED CLIENT: “Hear th' news, Gluckv?
Mish Aarons has pone off with y r wealthy
young wife! ”
NEWLY-WEDDED IKE : " Golti! Married
three days—milont no interest—and anodder
man gets avay mit mine capital!! ”
HED GOT ACCUSTOMED TO IT.
HE : “ I had my, photo, taken the other day , and it's a splendid likeness .”
SHE : “Do you like it? ”
HE : “ Yes, very much."
SHE: “ That’s curious .”
The usual herd of marine mules sailed into
the line of tire on blaster Monday, when the garri-
son artillery was trying to snatch a little practice
from the Port Jackson forts. The men behind
the guns waited and swore at the white sails
hovering about the dancing targets ; but at last,
seeing that it was useless, the officers shut down
the shooting programme for the day. The holiday
yachtsman has got into the habit of cheerfully
ignoring the formal published warning that shot
practice is to be carried out, and that he will
greatly oblige by not risking his life in the
vicinity ; and it really seems that one or two of
him will have to be killed for the discouragement
of the others. The Shocking Example was just
missed a while back at the South Channel forts
in Port Phillip, on a morning which had been
publicly dedicated to practice. A breeze that
had been blowing dropped suddenly, and a boat,
which had been trying to run past, was left help-
less on the face of the glassy sea. One of the
crew, who wasn’t the sole support of his widow
mother, but wanted to live all the same, asked if
there was any danger; but the skipper lit his
pipe, and like a true Liberal answered “No,
No ! ” Being pressed further, he said irritably
that he reckoned the boat wasn’t very far inside
the danger zone. Two minutes later there was
the hollow slam of a big gun from shoreward, and,
with a long crescendo scream, a devil plunged
from the sky into the sea just under the boat’s
nose, and burst with a dull boom. A white
column of foam leaped up like a tall tpmbstone
and collapsed—-partly on the boat. However, the
next shot was well away, and the succeeding
shells so remote that a less shaken band of
sailors might have enjoyed them. To this day
none of them are sure whether a homicidal bom-
bardier was at work, or whether it was plain
rotten markmanship.
* * * *
A touching case of the thrift which the
Right Thinking Person generally believes should
be rewarded with an extra vote has come under
medical notice in Victoria. A Brighton gardener
took his load of turk’a caps, etc., to market, then
loaded up with manure, and on the way bought a
German sausage, which he bestowed in the tool-
box under the waggon. Arrived home he forgot
all about the mystery, but suddenly called it to
mind a week or so later. Being a worthy man,
he handed the goods to the wife and desired her
to cut away the overripe, parts and put the rest
on the day’s menu. The local doctor succeeded
in saving the wife and the youngsters, but it isn’t
certain at time of writing whether the gardener
will be an angel or an M.L.C.
“ Peru ” : The N. S. Wales working-man
is almost as bad as his brother of Queensland for
yelling for Labor and a White Australia, and
then dropping into the first Chow shop for his
supplies. Cobar, for instance, is supposed to be
as “ hot ” a Labor camp as Broken Hill. There
is a strong Miners’ Union ; nearly every man who
should be a member is one. And there is a B.L.L.
so strong that Donald Maqdonell is mostly re-
turned unopposed, and because Cobar is in the
Darling Federal
electorate W. G.
Spence has a safe
seat. Yet for a
couple of years a
workers’, co-
operative store
struggled for ex-
istence and died a
month ago, simply
because the
unionists refused
to support it,
while the Chows
do about the best
business in the
town. The unions
lately put up a
fight for increased
pay, and got a
rise of Is. and Is.
fid. a day—and a
whole heap of it
is going to Ah
Fat. In fact, the
white unio n s’
efforts on behalf
of Ah Fat were
so successful that other yellow heathen are being
brought to the town and more Chow-store accom-
modation is to be built.
“Berkeley”: He was a model young
man, but, as usual, a woman caused his downfall.
When she threw him over, he rushed into my
room, his usually sleek hair disordered, his eyes
rolling in frenzy. “ Look at that !” he groaned,
throwing her letter at me. “Look at it! By
Heaven, it’s drink I must have now.” He was so
enthusiastic that I hadn’t the heart to contradict
him. “Come —come! It’s to the Devil now!”
he shouted. Joyously I accompanied him. He
flung his coin recklessly on to the bar. “Beer,”
he demanded. “Beer!” And then, as an after-
thought : “And put some lemonade in mine.”
What a lot a girl will endure if she be-
lieves that slur is a Venus or an Ivy Schilling !
Open sea-bathing in Melbourne was only legalised
at the tail-end of the season, and the water was
already cold before most people could get their
clothes ready. But the fairies with limbs to be
displayed are not to be deterred by a mere trifle
like cold sea. Along the foreshore the shapely
maiden in costume that fits her like a mould con-
tinues to display her beauties in spite of wind
and icebergs. A crowd of male things gazing in
the most abstracted way out to sea is a sure indi-
cation that some bashful darling who would scorn
to show her shoulder in the public street is about
to take the waters. Many of the girls seem to
fully realise that it is a shame to wet the pretty
things they wear, and put off the awful moment
as long as possible. It is a terrible thing to have
a good figure in cold weather.
* * * *
So far as Victoria is concerned the death
knell of that venerable and insanitary institution,
the municipal tip, was sounded at a recent Board
of Health meeting, when it was resolved that the
abominations should be abolished, and that the
metropolitan municipalities and the cities of Bal-
larat, Bendigo and Geelong be given two years
notice to become decent. Which means the
adoption of the up-to-date “ destructor ” system
of disposal, whereby the smellful garbage, with
its dead cat and defunct dog, may be quickly and
effectively disposed of by fire. The destructor not
only justifies its title, but there is a valuable
municipal asset in its residue—clinker, solder from
tins. etc. In fact, it has been proved that the
superannuated jam pot and the rejected kerosene
tin can be converted into paving blocks, or goats’
feed or something, while generating valuable
motive power, light, etc., in the process.
* • * *
An American writer, after touring Aus-
tralia, sets out to prove in the Mm Pacific maga-
zine (Honolulu) that the Scawtch pereon who
described the Commonwealth as “ the saddest
place on earth” had porridge in his eyesight.
ISome clips
I love Sydney next to Pari®, and more than I do New
York. Sydney is more home-like than Paris, and almost
as gay at times. ... Melbourne is Chicago all over again,
except that Melbourne is Australia one day in the year—
when the Melbourne Cup is raced f0r.... I did Tasmania,
and loathed to leave that wonderful island. ... Sydney
carries more of a metropolitan air than any American
city other than New York. .. . I went to Australia ex-
pecting to be disappointed, vet every day there were new
impressions, and every day I postponed the date of my
departure ; for Australia has as much, if not more, to
teach the American than has any Old World country.
The American writer gets off the rails in places,
nevertheless. For instance, referring to Sydney,
he says : “It is the rule that any woman found
on the streets after dark on the night before New
Year’s Day may be kissed.” No account of how
it feels to be in an Australian gaol is given, so
apparently the Yankee man did not try to put
the alleged rule into practice.
* # * »
On the American continent much fuss is
made over flags. In a U.S. college every student
has “Old Glory ” nailed up in his room, and any-
one who enters is supposed to salute it. The
other day, according to a letter written by an
Australian bov to his father, a Sydney student
who had the flag of the Southern Cross displayed
in his diggings at an Ontario college, pointedly
drew the attention of some visitors to the fact
that that was the ensign of his country. In-
stantly they saluted it. Australia as an entity is
getting along.
THE EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN.
“ Hurrah! Out of hobbles into trousers.
“Klinker,” from an engine-room :
Marine disasters are usually associated with a break-
down of the machinery. Hence I’m not so surprised
that now and then a ship conies to g rief on the Australian
coast, as I am that the disasters are so few ; for once Aus-
tralian coastal vessels start they are kept going' without
any proper overhaul of machinery until the engines can-
not run any longer or something is absolutely smashed.
Even then the repairs are rushed so that the ship shall
not lose the usual run. Passenger boats go sometimes
for 12 months without a stop, and are then rushed into
dock for five working days where they should have as
in my weeks. Theycome into port looking spick and span
outside ; but if you went below, you would sometimes
find the engine-rooms and stokeholes perfect wrecks,
dangerous alike to crew and passengers.
A SHORT WAY WITH “SHOUTERS."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If you meet a man in the street and he asks von to
have a drink, knock him down, sit. on his head, and don’t
let him up till he signs the pledge,” advised the doctor
[Professor Anderson Stuart] amid applause and laughter.
—S. M. Herald.
If you should meet a man in the street,
Who asks you to have a drink,
Knock him down for an insolent clown
Before he has time to think !
Who offers to shout” is an ignorant, lout
Who doesn’t know Nature’s laws.
And medical views on the action of Rooze,
And the dreadful things it will cause!
I urge amain—“ Train , brothers , train ! ”
Det up your muscles and thews ;
Hitter the ball, learn how to fill,
Also your “ left ” how to use.
(let into trim, agile and slim
Fighters should never he stout
Any old day may come your way
Someone who’ll offer to shout!
Do not say “No ! ” Land him a blow,
(live him a “woodener” quick !
Insolent hound ! Once on the ground
He won’t be able to “ sliick.”
Give him in charge for being at large,
When he is able to rise ;
Then, like u in in, as soon as yon can,
Go and have one with the flies !
N.B.W.
PETRONIUS EAREITER.


if
i
DAP
Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
DIREOTION.6 ROUND EACH TABLET.
NO. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1 BOB,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NO. 97.
Hunyadf,
Janos 1
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler
on arising, before breakfast, for/
CONSTIPATIOI
sdf
Buy Your
THE TIME IS NOW. ag~THE PLACE IS PEAPES’.
WE do not compete in the selling of ordinary Overcoats—we
cater for the man who wants something that has worth and
style built into it—a garment, not a mere coveting.
The overcoatings are specially woven' for ns by a leading
British Manufacturer—distinctiveness is . evident in them at a
glance. , . . f
They are pure wool Rainproof Tweeds, warm and wet proof
yet not weighty—very much finer than the old style overcoats
where cotton predominated.
We mention one line.
This Special Overcoat is in Grey and Brown Herringbone Scotch
TOPCOAT
Tweeds. Fawn with Colored Check Design.
Also Dark Brown Tweed, with Green Stripe.
PRICE 32/6
We have others at 42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 70/-, 75/- 84/-
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George St., SYDNEY.
“P.L.” : Be par. (B. 6/4/11) concerning
the Southern public official who was operated on
for the removal of his appendix by re . >•’
and had the satisfaction of Anally seeing .
appendix after a fourth, surgeon had amoved it.
Colorado (U.S.) recently pas ed a law akin,, it
compulsory on any medical man often £
appendicitis to produce the amputated a. ie -
formis, and to show therefrom evidence of e
disease necessitating the operation and justifying
the collection of a fee. No disease, no dollars.
* * * *
“ Adelaide ” : Somebody suggests (B.
13/4/’ll), apropos the revived effort to put down
spitting on the footpaths in Brisbane, that Svdney
and Melbourne could make big revenues by fining
their culprits £2 apiece. Well, let them try, and
they will be pleasantly disappointed. A mere
handful of fines, and the knowledge that there
were more in the bag, would stamp out the un-
pleasant practice, which arose only from laziness
in the first place. It has been thus stamped out
in Adelaide. So far as the principal streets are
concerned, it simply does, not exist. And there
was hardly any’ trouble about-it.
■* * * • •
“ Gwy ” : Cables mention that it is likely
’Ome Universities will confer honorary degrees 011
some of the Coronating politicians from Oversea.
If Fisher and co. hav.e any sense of the fitness of
things, they will shovv it by declining 1 the mstinc-
tion, such as it is. Speaking as a graduate who
had to graft fbr his degrees, I should like to
observe that if there is any English-conferred
“honor” more foolish than the rest, not even
excepting the cheap little C.M.G., it is the
honorary degree. It really signifies nothing.
The degree usually selected for this discreditable
purpose is the LL.D. or D.C.L. Now, the degree
of Doctor of Laws, won by exafnination, is one of
the most difficult to obtain, and one of tlje
soundest evidences that its possessor is some
pumpkins in ' the way of erudition at j
least. In N. S. Wales, for example, though '
many desire it, few have the courage to
sit for it, and; the Doctors of Law may
almost be counted on the fingers. But
universities, which are usually so punctilious in
their demands that they won’t encourage (say) a
promising science student unless he has
“ crammed ” some dead languages which he will
proceed to forget as speedily as possible, have
fallen into the bad habit of flinging this hon.
LL.D. at any visiting personage., Thus Sydney
University went through the solemn foolishness of
making the York dukeling an LL.D; when he was
here 10 years ago, though no one pretends that
he has ever absorbed enough law to give him a mild
headache. Similarly, when Editor Ward, of
Sydney D.T., returned from a recent jaunt to
England, it was with the same tag, and his sense
of hbinor isn’t sufficiently developed to keep him
frori£ calling himself “ Dr.” The honorary degree,
of Whatever kind, is bogus—a cheap irpita,tidn of
the real article, and its conferring is an injustice
to those, who have won it in the genuine way. If
the Universities really thirst to honor distin-
guished visitors, let them institute some special
degree—another brand, so to speak. The foolish-
ness of the thing might then become apparent.
THE PRIDE OF POVERTY POINT.
WILLIAM WALLACE ANSTRUTHER (standing on
his dignity): “No, sir; never would I
act in that township . again. Never, sir—
not even if you were to pay me!"
THE FRUGAL HOUSEWIFE.
BERNARD: “ But, my dear girl, your house-
keeping account is all wrong. The total is
much heavier than this. Can 't you add?"
HIS BONNY BRIDE: “ Yes, Bernard, of course:
but you know you told me I must keep the
totafaown to £20 a month."
“Geofrecl”: The “no encumbrance”
hah;!; is spreading faster than even prickly pear.
I advertised recently for a flat of unfurnished
rooms at North Sydney to accommodate (1) the
quarter of me that is me, (2) the other and better
three-quarters of me, and (3) the parcel delivered
some five months ago. Also, to he quite frank and
confess all my qins, a 9-year-old sister of the smaller
half of us is staying with us for a few weeks. The
first place I visited I was received with as much
enthusiasm as Bruce Smith gets at a Women’s
Liberal meeting. Ihe Conversa-
tion was reaching a hopeful
climax, when I casually men-
tioned that “ baby was a very
quiet child and seldom heard.”
After that, somebody opened
/ the door of the ice-house,
and the conversation froze.
Eventually I was asked to
call round for an answer
“later on.” I knew what
that meant. At No. 2
Sarah Ann informed us
that “Missus was out”;
hut that the rooms ’ad
already been let to a single,
gentleman. This and simi-
lar results niet me at Nos.
3, 4 and 6. At No. 5 I got
no answer to my ring.
No. 7 was a last hope. A
tug at the door-hell brought
the “ respectable lady ” to
the door. “Oh, yes,” she
said, “your wife was here
earlier in the day. Well,
my sister, Miss Rooms
Vacant, is out at present.
Rut in any case, I don’t
think she would take chil-
dren.” After a little argu-
ment she departed to the
back of the hbusje. Then
some whispering, and Miss
Apartments Vac a n t’s
sister returned. I could
feel the blow coming.
“ Well, really I’m sorry,
but my sister’s out.__and
I know she would object to children. Aow,
I've still pot three days to pet rooms, and 1 m
thinking seriously which would be the best to (1)
keep that baby and allow our family; of three to
remain homeless, or (2) drown the little bundle,
and allow two of our family to have a home If 1
don’t pet a place iii three days it s 1000 to one
that the bundle will have to go.
* * * *
“ The great point about a flat,” says a
man who lives in one, “is that you oan entertain
anybody you like, and anybody you like veiy
much cun entertain you.
“ C.S.A.” : I, too, when travelling by
train through Spotswood (Vic.), have sepn the
signboard at the church : “ Prepare to meet thy
God.” But I always thought it was one of iait s
railway notices.
* * * *
The harem skirt has already killed a man
-at Bendigo (Vic.). He wasn’t wearing the gar-
ment himself, but he got in the way of a curious
Easter holiday crowd which was following an
excited female who was wearing it; and, being
old and not nimble, he fell and was trodden; to
death Lovely woman always makes the danger-
ous mistake of trying her dress experiments m
crowded cities and streets, instead of making
tests in lonesome places like Yassberra or
“Liberal” meetings, and gradually working in
towards civilisation.
A Maorilfinder has discovered a new way
of clearing his character. Finding that a story
had broken loose in the town that lie .was detected
in his store “on a certain Sunday night with a
certain young lady,” he appointed a commission
of two parsons, three solicitors and one Civil ser-
vant to try him- Evidence tor the prosecution
was called through the advertising columns of the
local paper, and a date and place fixed fot the
hearing but the prosecution was unanimous in
i its absent a fact which may have-been an elo-
quent tribute to the storekeeper’s virtueor merely
the result of a wholesome and intelligent fear of
having to subsequently face an action for slander.
Anyhow, after waiting 20 minutes, the defence
was entered upon, four witnesses were examined
on oath, and the -judgment of the commission
published in the provincial newspapers next day
as an advertisement, thus :
Wei being a committee set up for the purpose of in-
quiring into the alleged misbehavior of Mr.” *
certain young lady, and, having thoroughly investigated
the said allegations, do unanimously and unhesitatingly ,
declare, on positive proof, that such charges have not (l-e
slightest foundation in fact.
It is an original idea, and opens the way to some
curious ; possiV>ilities. Any day, now, an advertise-
ment of the following nature may be expected :
Public Notice.
In the matter of a suspicion that has been circulated in
police circles that I- broke and entered the premises of
John Smith and. Co., merchants, and stole certain moneys,
I Burglar Bill, Caused to he set up a committee.™ in-
vestigation, consisting of six reputable.gents. No evioenee
for the prosecution being forthcoming 1 , William Sikes,
Esq Joseph Cionk, Esq., and Jemmy Chubb, Esq., gave
evidence on oath for the defence. The committee then
unanimously declared that the rumor had ho foundation
in fact. God Save the King. Given under my seal and
• finger-print th.fs day.—B. Bill.
The Melbourne tramway monopolists hand
their employees “privileges” much as a man
hands the dentist his aching tooth—to avoid worse
trouble. The other day, foreseeing that the
Federal Arbitration Court would assuredly grant
the 48 hours demand, it forestalled the men by
reducing the hours from 54 to 48 as from April 1.
But the score*or so of ’bus drivers who still per-
suade along the relies of last-century locomotion
were not in the union; so the co. carefully left
their hours as they wterel
* * # *
‘ ‘ Rifleman ” writes -
The recurrent growl about the insufficiency of targets
for practice vitalises the question as to the efficacy of the
fixed target as a war preparation. This fact is unques-
tionable, anyhow—the nations which should know most
about the business are scrapping the fixed object, with
its known ranges, except as a preliminary training for
recruits, and seeking to perfect the moving apparatus.
Captain Brand, an Australian officer attached to tne
Indian army, lately sent along to the Common-
wealth authorities an interesting report of a “ fire
problem ” meeting held at Umballa. No bull's-
eye targets were used, but) in each match the com-
petitors, who were divided into, teams of varying
strengths, were set a problem to he worked out by. the
individuals competing or the officers commanding the
teams. In one match two men formed a team. The men
were told that a scouting party of three was advancing at
a range of anything up to 1500yds. The “ enemy ” was
represented by three targets working across country from
one cover to another, at intervals of about two yards. If
the teams fired ap one target before the others appeared
it vanished, and nbne of the targets materialised there-
after; but if fire were withheld until the three were
visible they raced across to the nearest cover after the
fashion of the “ running-man" targets. It looks a good
test of a soldier’s fi. ness for his job. If he fired too soon
he got no further chance of hits ; if he delayed too long
the “ enemy ” got to cover and he got no hits at all. And
as he had to judge the distance as well as fire at the right
time, he had to know his business to win through.
Another match was open to teams comprising
either' a double company or a squadron —l2O
men with a commander. The commanders were
told that the. “enemy” was using a certain
locality as headquarters. The alleged force, represented
bv targets, appeared suddenly at an (unknown range
sav, 1500yds. If fire was not opened promptly it ducked,
and re-appeared at, say, 1100yds. ; and if it wasn’t then
shot at it again went under and bobbed up at, sav,
700yds., and so on. Here, again, coolness, rapidity and
accuracy of distance-judging were the things that stuck
to the rifleman. Of two things Brand’s Indian experi-
ence has convinced him— (a) Judging distances must
take a foremost place in the training of the Common-
wealth’s citizen S''ldlers ; and (b) Australian officers
must get all the practice they can in fire discipline and
control. 1
WASTE OF TIME.
SEVEN: “ Mother doesn't like me going out with
boys—she says they always try to kiss you.”
SIX : “ But if they promise you they won’t ? "
SEVEN : “ Then what's the good of going out
with them?"
If von want .something really good in the way
of rnzors of buy the Diamond Edge hn>"' .
the best that; ni.hbpj’ can buy. Razors is. 6(1. and I<K M.
each. Strops 6s- • So,<l on, - v tlje'Spte Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney ■ Arcade ; entrance
from George Sr King,Streets, Sydney.*
GRANNY'S 80th BIRTHDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day is the Hkrald’s 80fch birtiidity:—S. M. Hf.rald,
18/4/11.'
Lawks-a-mussy ! Well, I never !
Eighty years of acre! : ;
Still as hale and dull as eVjtr,
Fat in every page ;
Slow, decorous, greatly grieving
At the things 1 see—
Which the same’s past all believing—
Deary , deary me /
Yiis, indeed, there’s changes round me
Since I was a girl!
They dmnbflsh me, and astound me,
Set me in a whirl ;
Leave me deep in cogitation .
How them things can be
Which are ruining the na&i'otp-
Deary , deary me !
Ho ! them good old days so spagious,
Gone to Kingdom Copie !
Which their memory is umbrageous
To the name of Rum !
Grand old times, when most was bonded,
But a few was free—
Where are them good times -absconded?
Deary , deary me !
[Three minutes interval here for siyhs and pious
reflections.] . , '■ -
When I was a gentle maiden
In a crinoline,
Every ship came hither laden ' ■,
By and for the Queen ;
Ah ! in them days immigration
Was compulsor-ee,
And folk knew their proper'Stati.bn—
Deary, deary me !
Folk in them days was respectful,
Touching lock or hat
Anyone the least neglectful
Promptly got The Cat.
Now there’s no subordination,
Men of low degree
Spend their days in agitation—
Deary, deary me /
Wagi'g iil them times was proper,
Reasonable and low; '
Freemen gat their pay in copper,—
Bondmen got a blow.
All we ate, and wore, and wanted
Came from oversea
Now Australian goods are flaunted—
Deary, deary me !
Then our grand Old institoosliuns
Exercised their sway ;
We’d no foe—exbept the Rooshans,
Very far atvay.
We were folk of simple habit,
Lacking £ s. d. ;
But we’d land—and how we’d grab ft!
Deary, deary me !
Notv, ahoo ! Poor Ma is sundered—
i Carved up into Five ;
R )btied, despoiled, betrayed and plundered,
Yet— we’re still alive !
And vour Granny, passing eighty
(Strange that this should be !)
Still grows fatter and more weighty—
Deary, deary mk !
N. S. W.
O. C. CAROT.


Old tall Plenfy:~' Yes, yoa really should do
wi*h %2P Trouble so conscience op yours.
:/o* see l J hbye no"e^'
The Anglican Synod's social ques-
tions committee intends to convene
a conference to discuss how organ-
ised Christianity can meet the pro-
blem presented by the growth of
the ' class conscience” in Australia.
Yy •• The strike Is the best and strongest
' weapon we organised workers possess.
If the Referendum is carried, our right
to strike will be abolished. From that
moment strikes will be a crime. We
workers will have lost our best weapon
for ever, and we'll have to take what*
ever the Arbitration Court give us.”
Aqe pu+s
ise c^c
CASUALTIES AT QUEENSCLIFF.
Sergeant Blank, of Geelong, is suffering
from a poisoned leg.
"fijleh Hero.- AH,myde*%*
life 'S °*re of rnaJs,
\ "fj deadly f>erd>
\\ '. " but~you would
1 h*ye. *been a<»ri©^"frip y° M
jj not" l£e bim/He
hO o 5 ifb PiTT
you.*
ii It is greatly to the advantage j
of the people that the Labor parly I
is not endowed with the astuteness, l
not to say cunning, of some of its
leaders. Those leaders do all they
can to prevent information reaching
the public.”
“V/orKer:- ‘■'Veil, itwooldyj^:
'bt-eJvK rrw Vi®v*"
i?,U tr*yj old •blunderbuss-
Ever-/ -finie 1 1 1 ’*,. 1 *” -P —
-ncvlj KicKj -tKe life out oym^y^
s r ■’y NHR £fy
cJWat' lfc>ly Subh* ss\ ow *»
y oM\»&yi re+l t<2-oce r
' wen&ve
/ Cifkcn V'&O'dy SSWcV'^H
/ Sheet for evidence of
/ $ e je*isTencfc'of
y// ac< 'Yes'
#/ recent- .
1+ reported
yesterday i^af
_ A\c'l>oi»rne +o,r ™e
(Vona+ion Tbe.run>o<Ar
Y<*? Uneasiness has been created In
/C Westralla owing to the fact that
M/ Butters, who on arrival at Adel-
,l A / , aide was placed in quarantine suf-
Yff ferlng from smallpox, had mixed a
( great deal with shore people when
he landed at Fremantle. The first
intimation to the Department of Public
Health that passengers had been per-
mitted to travel overland from Adel-
aide was communicated by telephone i
by passengers themselves. -J
B °> ~ *S wHiSnljf Sonne !«****:
3.
“ Cheer &kb Sonny, SOOtt
he WK '■ , .
Why dash
«'m Cryi*rfc aWt.
A MELBOURNE PAGE.


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
Choice Diamond and
Tourmaline, £l2/12/-
Specially Selected
Diamonds, £25.'
Diamonds and One
Whole Pearl, £lO.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings, Pendants and Jewellery generally at prices never
before attempted in Australia.
WHY? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have
to live up to it; and so to increase our already large output, we are offering all Diamond goods at merely
a commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of customers.
•; ' •.
Plain Figures
Cash.
]
Fairfax & Roberts
The Oldest Jewellery
i House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE SORROWFUL STAGER.
[For The Bulletin.]
The grand old stager bowed his head above his
dinner-beer, . . .
A thousand headache noises drummed into his aged
And Trom the food ten thousand notes of fly-enjoy-
ment rose,
A loud and vicious hum. The old man, worried
with his woes,
Groaned in his beard. His soup was but a reservoir
for flies.
And, as he groaned, he gazed upon his beer with
plaintive eyes.
The summer day was blazing hot, and very warm
and wiiu
The table-helper was, his table-manners far from
mild;
And, as he whirled hot grub before each hungry
toiler there, , • .
The thumping of his feet threw clouds of dust into
the air;
And all the time he bravely held a horde of flies at
bay, . „ . .
Nor failed to curse the heat and dust in a refreshing
way.
And yet, for all the blazing heat, the cloud and
swarming flies,
The coarse corn-beef-’n’-cabbage smells, the table-
helper’s cries
for plates of rude, assorted food, the crowd that
sat at meat,
Contentedly continued to resist the flies, and eat.
The grand old stager, he alone, of that perspiring
bunch,
Sat groaning on his chair, and failed his plate of
food to munch.
A thousand gums around the pub sighed faintly in
the heat,
The table-helper sighed as well, and paused upon
his beat ,
Seeing the old man’s shoulders heave, he said, The
flies are bad!
This heat is Hell! But try an’ eat.” The stager,
wholly sad, ... T . .
Looked up, and moaned, “Th heat is bad. But,
son, it isn’t that.
“Look ’ere!”, (He caught his, breath.) “Just look!
It’s flat. Th’ beer is flat!”
victoria. FRANK HEN IT.
ANNOYED WITH NATURE'S PLAN.
ALMOST INSANE DAIRY EMPLOYEE (to milking herd lowing at the gate of cowyard)
“ Hell! Are all yous back again l Why th ’ blazes can't yer LAY IT same as fowl s!”
“A.L.”: Old timers on the cattle runs
about the head waters of the Upper Murray,
the Mitta Mitta, the Snowy and the Tambo
Rivers, would be greatly amused at recent
exhibition attempts in Sydney to throw and
tie a steer. Years ago, when wild cattle
were numerous, bullocks ten and twelve hun-
dred pounds in weight were thrown, tied and held
fast till the herd of tailers were brought to them.
Even now stockmen in those parts think nothing
of running down, throwing, ear-marking and bang-
ing the tail of a two-year-old cleanskin, and they
do it on their own, too. A stockhorse on one of
those runs, with hardly a touch on the reins from
his rider, will follow the beast you are after, wheel
with it, range up alongside when the timber is not
too thick, pull up dead in two strides as the animal
i 3 thrown, and never think of moving away when
you leave him.
“Eddvson”: This happened within a few
miles of the spot where the two seeond-ha# nnmng
trucks, hauled by a donkey “portable, winch the
Vic Government has the audacity to call a mou -
tain railway, butts into a gum-stump at Gembrook,
and decides to go no further. Twain was stand-
ing at his kitchen door, enjoying the evening
glow as the declining sun slid over Slippery
Hill when the sore-looking stranger rolled his
swag through the panels and limped up. “Even-
in’, mister,” he said. “Could you giver a bloke
a bit er supper?” “Nawl” said Twain Mighter
bloke doss in yer stable?” “Naw!” Look ere,
mister, I got the consumption pretty bad. _ Darn t
’eln it” “Besides, I’m lame.” “That ain’t no
fault of mine.” “I’m footsore, dorg weary, nd a
Presbyterian.” “What’s all that gotter do with
me?” “Well, then, I’m yer brother Jack, what
cleared out from Bet-Bet 27 years ago.” Twain
woke up, stared hard, and thawed. Bless me
soul' Why didn’t you say so afore? he said. Then
he took and kicked Bill back though the slip-panels
and 50 yards down the road ; and he sent the dog t
bite William as he fled into the saplings.
*
“Condamine”: Did I hear someone say
that a horse never gets bushed? Let hin J who sa[s
so attend. I was a good way out in a belt of scrub
the other day, when, owing to the sky becoming-
cloudy, I was at a loss to find my way back again,
so I decided to trust to my charger’s homing n-
stinct, and gave him his head. He set off tieely,
and I am sure that he considered he was mak-
ing for home. In about a quarter of an hour 1
noticed that we were back to where I first re-
linquished the helm. I guided him for a while in a
different direction, and let him go again.. Same re-
sult. For curiosity I gave him another trial, and
once more he looped-the-loop. Just here I decided
that this particular prad’s bump bf locality was
about the size of a hen’s ear, and, selecting a break
in the clouds for a guide, I took a firm hold of ins
countenance and eventually conducted him into the
open. -
* * *
“Yarramalong” : Greenhide and No. 8 fenc-
ing-wire are not the mainstay of the coastal cocky,
whatever they may be of the Outbacker. Corn cobs
are: without them the coastal cocky’s life would be
a blank. They are, to start with, used as fuel,
although, as heat producers, they are dismal failures,
for, when first lighted, they flare up. like a capi-
talist when high wages are mentioned, and in a few
minutes are a smoking, smellful mass like a 1< rce-
trade argument. But —they cost nothing. A real
cocky never uses a curry-comb and brush to give
his horses their annual grooming. Not he! lie
simply takes a piece of chaff-bag in one hand, a
worn‘corn-cob in the other, and hard words in his
mouth. Also, he uses cobs for emergency reaping-
hook handles, file handles, lighting his pipe (saves
matches), as corks for his “kag” (keg), water-bag,
and yeast bottles. My own opinion is that cocky
reckons he could open the door of Sheol with a
corn-cob and escape.
“Walkabout”: The real ’Groper isn’t
dead; on the contrary, in some quarters his dislike
for the t’othersider is as strong now as it was years
ago. When Bill arrived at W'hangamup, he said he
was a native, and on the strength of it got a job
with an old ’Groper. For 14 years Bill was looked
upon as one of the best, and finally decided to get
married. The annual grass-fed race-meeting came
round, and as beer was cheap and plentiful, Bill
got a bit over the odds, and confided in the girl s
brother that he “was no blanky ’Groper, but a
Sydneyite.” That was the end of Bill’s dream; in
fact, half the population of the district was after
his scalp,'for his cheek in trying to marry one of
“our gals.” Bill was terribly sorry when he got
better —the “gal” had property —but it was no go.
He was a t’othersider, even after 14 years, and that
was the end of it. He’s a “Combo” in th<* Nor’-
W'est now.
an opportune change.
IST NEWCHUM (to Shipmate): “ Yes, I'll finish this ‘ picking up’ to-morrow, and then
Pm going to have a week's ‘ scrubbing ’ an ‘ grubbing
2ND DO.: “An’, bai Jove, old man, YOU NEED it.”
“Gwy”: “Wonga” (B. G/4/’ll) remarks
that my idea of making occupiers destroy noxious
weeds is nothing new, and points out that,-, in N. S.
Wales, that power already lies with the shire coun-
cils. Right. But as soon as any proposal is made
to turn the power on, “friends” spring from all
quarters to the pest’s assistance. Even if it be
next to impossible to eradicate the hyacinth, as
many believe, a few hours’ work occasionally will
keep it in check, so that the river steamer can get
close enough in to take Cocky’s cream cans aboard;
and if the shire councils are too apathetic to do a
fair thing, or insist on occupiers doing it, the central
Government ought to clamber over the general feel-
ing of letting things slide, and hit the. Local Gov-
ernment Act with a suitable amendment.
“B. R. Chewer”: “Karee” (B. 16/3/’ll)
says he knew only one binghi to use a hanky. \Y ell,
I knew another, which makes two. My pfeller
turned up at Ravgnswood (Q.), as a witness for the
prosecution in a horse-stealing case, and nearly
drove the Court to fine itself for language by his
manipulation of an heirloom in the shape of what
had once been a white handkerchief. A specimen
of the proceedings:—
Bench: “What is your name?”
Witness (carefully using the heirloom): Robert
Bob.” , , ,
Bench (irritably): “Do you go to church? •
Witness (repeating previous performance) : Oil
er—yes. Hebben.”
Bench (exploding) : “For goodness sake, man, put
that confounded handkerchief out of sight.”
Witness (with a longer clean-up than before) :
“Oh, all right, Boss.”
In between wipes Robert Bob admitted that the
arresting constable had taught him his evidence.
Being thereupon told to stand down, he sat in front
of the magistrate, shining up his face-bulb till
the exasperated Bench threatened to give him “the
rising” for contempt of court.
* * * *
“Palumpas”: Re bush-hospitality, the
N.S.W. Cow-Couhtry is the coldest-hearted I ever
sampled. I doubt if even “Jimmie Pannikin,” who
is here somewhere on the Mighty Muddy Manning,
could induce the average butter-baroh of the North
Coast to emulate the spacious gracious hospitality
that is alleged to be a distinguishing characteristic of
the Outbackers. I recently went two miles out of my
boggy, slushy way to deliver an important telegram
to a Paspalum Prince, and thoughtfully struck the
comfortable homestead just as the family had started
dinner. Father came out, took the telegram, read it,
yarned to me for about 20 minutes; then-a son took
his place and talked cows and corn and pigs for
about six minutes of an inhospitable hour. I decided
to see the cow-country comedy through. Another son
relieved son No. 1, and discussed separators and milk-
testers for fully .78 of an hour. Then mother took
her turn in keeping me at bay till father and the
boys came out. “You’ll have to excuse us now,”
said father ; “we have work to do down in the corn.”
Said I: “Permit me to thank you for the pleasure of
your intellectual and interesting conversation, and to
say that I don’t want to be asked to dinner.” “Oh,
don’t mention it!”, said father. “Dinner’s over. So
long.”
“Dingo” : Had just absorbed the effusion of
“Bingo” (B. 9/3/’ll) re the absence of hydrophobia
ill England and France, when I discarded the red
rag and turned my attention to the Mourning
Herald of 22/3/’ll. There the following thrust itself
upon me:—
Paris, March 21. —Twelve persons have been bitten
by rabid dogs in Ushant. They have been sent to
the Pasteur Institute for treatment for hydrophobia.
So my vote goes every time to absolutely support
the Commonwealth Government in excluding mongrels
from overseas, whether it be France or Timbuctoo. I
vote to exclude the British mongrel, too, for that
matter.
* * * *
“Blue Bottle’s” new friend :
A few days ago I was walking bare-legged through
some tea-tree near Manly (N.S.W.), when I received
a shock similar to that caused by contact with the
famous “blue-bottle,” which at times infests the
ocean beaches, and whose greeting resembles that
of a much-magnified stinging nettle. A careful
search discovered my assailant, who measured luilj
half an inch over-all, and clung close to the leaves
ofthe tea-tree with which his color-scheme har-
monised. He was nicely painted in shades of green,
yellow, and brown; but the most remarkable thing
about him was that at each end of him there were
four low turrets, each mounting, 12 or 15 disappear-
ing guns, in the form of' minute spines. When
cleared for action he elevated these after the manner
of the clusters of thorns upon the fretful prickly-
pear, and it was with them that he dealt out
“stoush” to all intruders coming within range. I
have since had two or three encounters : with his
kind; and ‘as I have never, before this season, met
the invader, 1 anxiously await his identification.
* * * *
“The Pariah”: In a Bulletin a while
back “T.J.M.” admired the cunning of Brer Fox in
selecting his residence in the neighborhood of the
jay, in order to profit by the warnings of that
watch-dog of the bush. Well, every man as he
finds it, and this is how I have lately found it.
With two others have been after “Skins” —rabbit,
hare, fox. Whenever we heard Sister Jay holding
an open-air meeting, „ we made for the noise, and it
was an even chance that we got a fox. My conclu-
sion, therefore, is that the fox derives at least as
, much harm as benefit from the jay, because the bird
makes more fuss over onp fox than over 20 men.
When Uncle Remus made the fox the goat among
animals, he knew a bit more than “T.J.M.”
* . * * *
“Oxo”: Whilst doing the rounds on tin'
selection, the other day, I noticed a small object-
dangling from the top barbed wire of a fence, and
paused to investigate. It was a bird —a white-
breasted chat—swinging in the breeze with the aid
of a length of horsehair twisted round its neck.
Dunno whether the mite had become, entangled in a
section ,of„ its building, establishment,, or had been
disappointed in love, and had committed suicide.
“ J.R.M.”: I am satisfied that “Agricola”
was right when he credited the magpie with surgical
skill in bandaging broken bones. Fired at a black
satin bird one day, and, as it turned,out, broke his
leg. Had another shot at him a few days later,
and bagged him. Found his broken limb ban
daged with black feathers. He was the only black
bird in a flock of 30.


Weare Born to
offer benefit*
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
1 OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 Ceorgre St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly against
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1010.
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Stockfeld
H. S. Doherty
1 Joint
/Managers.
Speechless with Wonder
Are the friends of those relieved of indigestion
and all stomach troubles by Dr. Sheldon’s Diges-
tive Tabules. Price 2s. 6d. per tin.* K
Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh—unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure Constipa-
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Healache,
®>nd Indigestion, as millions know.
sd
Carters
WITTLE •
| IYER
H PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
PLASMON OATS
Scotland’s Best —“ Enormously in-
creased in food value by the addition
of Plasmon.” — Lancet.
4 Minutes Boiling only.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 6 & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
with h clo S t e°d rtoi w : fi h - ell^ tomCat debate is here-
nZJrt ", the past throe weeks The
the amm-.W reCel . ved the addresses of enough of
in the “N 1 w ,?° nVI " CC this P a P er that all the rats
traps or poison. C ° Uld be annihilat « d without
Hamer”: “Curse o’ Moses” (B. 30/3/’lll
th ' lt "' y , par ' alle^in & the reversion of half.
“ff CF”7n ft” 10 " typC is altogether wrong, and
„„ vr nt K i sa,ne lssue sa ys that my theory
since < ba p a “ s ®, of th e reversion is incorrect. Plainly,
since Vt.C.E. admits the reversion, the weight of
ThatTontrih the descendant of Abraham,
hat contributor asks me to produce one Maori who
„ f ln b ’/ lCk man \. l said nothing of the Maori being
black man; his hue is merely murky, like the
arguments of the Curse. For the matter of that there
amn castes amongst the Maoris, and
amongst the chiefs caste there are many whose
color is no darker than that of the average Italian.
so, there was one well-known family of athletic
half-castes who ranged from absolute white in one
almost absolute black in another. As for
W.G.Ji he evidently quotes pork as a means of
saving his argumentative bacon. The recurrence of
type m pigs may be pure accident, but I submit that
mine was a logical explanation of the undoubted re-
version to Maori type discernible in the children of
half-caste unions. The effects of a woman’s thoughts
upon her offspring are so well known that scientific
observation upon the subject must bear out my con-
tention. I don’t know anything about a pig’s
thoughts, and will leave their interpretation to
“W.C.E.”
MIXED!
DAGGLE: “I
can slice the
ball (hie!),
but damme
if I can find
the pocket !”
Agram”: “Walt Iv. Harris” (B. 9/3/’ll),
who contends that the trees in Gippsland (Vic.)
are the tallest in Australia, says that the other day
wnen he was in Nana Glen (N.S.W.) he failed to
ind the champions which I had nominated. If he
had gone a mile and a half from the Glen P. 0., and
steered due east, he would have struck a tree on
Bucca Creek measuring exactly 96ft. in circum-
ference. It is an ironwood, and I’ll back it against
anything “W.K.11.” has up his sleeve. Photographs
have been taken of the vegetable, with two or three
families standing between the hips, and yet leaving
room for another family of 17. Hundreds of piles
some of them measuring 86ft., are being cut in the
district for the Queensland Government, and you
can calculate from that what sort of seedling we
rear.
A MONGREL BREED.
CENSUS COLLECTOR: “ What about your race?”
SHEEP COCKY (who has previously described his house): “ Well , it's post and rail an’
wire an ’ bits of baggi n'.”
“Yalgun”: Seen the tinerang yet? I have
—among the remnant of a Clarence River (N.S.W.)
tribe on the Orara. Billy cadges the raw material,
which consists of a strip of tin plate from the local
canning works; and, having twisted-the goods into
the required shape, he does the same old tricks with
it as he does with its wooden brother, the boomer-
ang.
* * * *
“Tiaki”: In my own experience of the
Bay of Islands (M.L.), in the old whaling days, I
met many instances of the Maoris capturing men
who were “wanted” by the police, and delivering
them, trussed like poultry, as lately described by
“Puketapu” (B. 16/3/’ll). Poor devils who de-
serted their ships, . looking for freedom and escape
from untold hardships, were placarded in Russell,
and a reward of £5 or £lO offered for their re-
turn, the rewards being afterwards deducted from
the escapees’ oil “shares.” In most cases the
runaways made inland, and were collared by the
Maoris, trussed up, swung on a manuka pole, and
delivered at the lock-up or ship’s side. It is only
just to say, however, that there were some real
“white” Maoris in the district, one Mange Hare, par-
ticularly, being a noted provider of sanctuary for
hunted sailors. On the other hand, there were
some dirty white men, who induced sailors to ab-
scond, and then betrayed them for a few pounds.
As for those runaways who got clear, what must
their sufferings have been! I came across a tree
on one lonely hill-side track, upon which was carved:
Henry Atkinson, Alabama, 1870. God have mercy
on me!” I reckon he never saw Alabama again.
* * * *
“Thoughtful Theo”: When I was travel-
ling per mail coach from Port Linepln to Fowler’s
Bay (S.A.) some years ago, we drew up alongside a
cocoa-box on a corner post in the scrub. The driver
inserted therein two letters and some Bulletins. He
then placed a stone on the box to prevent it blowing
away. Sometimes it did blow away, I learned, and
the settlers put in a joyous week tracking their, mail
to the edges of the horizon. Once a sundowner stole
this post-office (which nobody thought of nailing
down) for a tucker-box, but the neighborhood rose
enmasse and pursued him 25 miles, and brought the
box back. It never struck them to get a new post-
office. Further on we collided with a gunny-bag
swinging from a tree, and in this the mail-driver
dumped some more Bulletins and letters. I heard
later that a farmer collected a gohanna therefrom,
which had battened on the mail; so the district
clubbed together and bought a kerosene-tin, which
answered better. As we drove along, a man emerged
from the mallee and asked us to take a letter on to
near Glen Boree. He told the driver to just drop it
on the road—somebody’d find it and give it to the
addressee. At another place, where a few crows
lived hardily, the post-office was an ancient piece of
china with the handle off, and a board laid across it.
The thing that broke me right up, however, was a
plank which reclined against the remains of a wall.
On the plank was written in chalk this notice:—
Leev ther male under the boord on ther side of
ther wall where ther wind ain’t blowin’.
You might not believe it, but all this was before
the Labor Government took office!
* *' *
“Bromide”: Someone said Black Brother
has no sense of humor. One Queensland police in-
spector thinks differently. A 13-bob-a-month tracker
wanted to get married the other day, and, accom-
panied by his gin, went to the inspector for per-
mission. At the interview things moved this way :
“Well, Charlie, they tell me you want to get
married V 6
“Yohi, boss!”
"And you, Jennie, you wantem get married, too?”
i ohi, me wantem ! ”
“f- 11 ! Now, Charlie, you’ll have to treat
your wife kindly.”
“My oath, boss.”
‘‘And you’ll have to give her all your wages'”
By cripes, boss, that not much!”
The inspector fainted.
The ‘superstition that sharks don’t ‘attack
niggers was badly bumped at Thursday Island the
other day, when a binghi boy, 16 years old, who
was bathing from a lugger near the shore, was
f® lz , ed .. by a shark, which tore away so much of him
that it was hard to say which was the binghi—The
part that was torn away or the part that remained
Hank Morgan” : In regard to the slieep-
shearing championship, I contend that a match for
one hour or two hours may be a test of speed and
style, but is no test of the more important stamina
and endurance. Why not get a match going for a
solid week? One-third of the gate-money to be in-
vested in whisky, to be divided among all the other
shearers present. Such a carnival would help to
make History.
NONE TOO SOBER.
SPOOFER: “’ I was lucky I was sober enough
to bring Mickie home last night, Mrs.
McCann
MRS. MCCANN: “' Twas, indade, Mr. Spoofer;
but, all the same, you needn't have put
him to bed in the dog-kennel.
“The Jester”: I propose to give judgment
in the case of Carpet Snake v. General Public. 1
knew a scrub-cutter who was bitten by Carpet, and
suffered no ill-effects; also I saw a cow similarly
assaulted, and she died in an hour. The judgment
of the Court is that Carpet is sometimes harmless
and sometimes deadly. The only way to find out is
to let him bite you. If you die, it is almost certain
from the foregoing either that he was an offensive
beast or that you were a cow. Costs on the higher
scale.
* * * *
“Eryander”: The Westralian land-crab
(“Vigilans,” (B. 30/3/T1) seems to be identical
with the queer West Indian creature that lives in
large communities, often as far as four miles from
the sea. This long journey these enterprising
“crusties” make once a year in order to spawn in
the sea-sand. They never travel by daylight; but,
by the aid of what has been called the “magnetic
instinct,” they make a perfect “bee-line” through
the darkness. They live in holes, and come out to
forage only at night. If one manages to get a grip
—and it is a grip—bn your hand, he promptly de-
taches his pinching-implement at the shoulder, so
to speak; and, while the orphaned member hangs
mechanically on, giving you pepper enough to oc-
cupy all your attention, the owner skedaddles to
safety.
“Palum-Pas”: A recent par. referred to
the fearful fact that, in the Mighty and Magnificent
Manning district (that’s what the local yokels call
it), the Cow is Allah. Smart agents, who want to
sell separators, etc., to the .Cow Kings and the
Cream Countesses, make a point of wearing a spray
of Paspslum Dilatatum grass as a outtonhole bou-
quet, and of whistling “The Cows are in the Corn.”
It is not kind to sneer at prominent bank managers
who proudly lead prize Cows round the show-ring.
Such an honor is conferred only upon the Best Citi-
zens. No member of Tins Bulletin staff could ever
hope to gain such spendid social prestige. The most
successful agent used to wear two miniature Cow-
bells on his watch-chain; his scarf-pin was a small
model bail and milking-stool; lie invariably lifted
his hat to the championess Cows, though he gave the
Cow-man’s missus but a curt nod. When a Manning
River Butter-Baron wishes to flatter one of his
horses, he calls it a Cow. This term of endear-
ment has quite a different meaning in parts where
the Cow is not Allah. A local parson said recently
to the pupils of the Poddy Creek provisional school —
‘‘And now how can you repay your, parents for all
their love and tenderness?” A girl of eight replied
—“Please, sir, by milking as many Cows as we can,
an’ by feeding the poddies, an’ gittin’ up early! ”
Poor little devils 1 They rise summer and winter be-
fore 5 a.m.
* * » *
“Walkabout” on Westralian agriculture :
A mixed (sheep and wheat) farm in W.A. must
consist of 1000 acres or more if the cocky is to do
well. Pick up a local paper any day, and you’ll
find it full of farms to let or sell, and one would
think the cockies were leaving the country in a
body. But they are not. The land fever is as bad
as ever; but most of them find their old holdings
are too small, and so they wan* to pass them on.
In some instances,
certainly, men go out
a long way to take up
more than they can
manage. They get the
limit from the Agri-
cultural Bank, and
want more; but as
the bank places restric-
tions on borrowings,
the usual practice is
then to go to a local
bank, get a bit extra,
pay off the Agricul-
tural Bank and go on
again. If the man has
tne luck to strike a
couple or so of good
seasons in succession,
he is in on his feet.
If he hasn’t that luck,
he is usually out on
his ear.
The best land in
the State is along the
Midlands Co.’s line.
At Three Springs last
season 46 bushels of
wheat and 48 of oats
were obtained to the
acre—not the same
acre.
In some of the
southern portions of
the State the small
cocky has a rough
time. It is either tod
much or too little
rain. The supply
wants regulating.
Machinery agentg
are as thick as bees,
and unless a cocky
knows his way about
he will find himself
loaded up with ma-
chinery before h e
knows where he is. I
know one man who
this season harvested
.56 acres. The mac-
hinery he used cost
hi m £275 in
I O U’s.
Some of the immi-
... , , grants who landed
with a bit of money are doing well; but, generally
speaking, they are poor farmers, and are slow in
adapting themselves to circumstances.
Agricultural laborers get from 30s. to £2 and
keep, and are scarce at that, as, if they can make a
start at all, they prefer to have a go at the land
on their own. The best of the land is, however, held
by the old hands, whose farms run to as much as
20,000 acres of freehold, some of it on river front-
ages. To get any kind of decent land now one must
go back 30 miles from the railway. Agricultural
lines are spreading everywhere; but some of the
settlers can never hope to get their crop to market
without crossing 20 miles of sand plain. Generally
speaking 1 , if it was not for the return from the
sheep, many of the small men could not live.
In the southern part of the State there is good
potato land, but it costs £2O an acre to clear it.
THE WIRELESS PARROT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
0W and todessT **“ PUb ’ a parrot - reetl
Who “wirtle t s°s” 1 - Sten Carefully when People talked of
116 Sr th ® new word up at last, and thought-
, fully would croak it.
TWa ®„ji St abo, . jt f lis tim e a horse knocked down his
cage and broke it.
01d UP rUffled bird ’ with in <%nation
Then - ticed ’ , that the stamped-on cage Was almost
past repairing;
An<l Wnd h him° Ckatoo had died and l6ft his perch be ‘
Old Joe dragged out the rusted tiling, and to the
bar assigned him.
The parrot didn’t like the move-publicity appalled
he “»*
And It! hero ’ he Put up with imbecile attentions,
d S re r n e sion, al1 ’ a <>, W
°” sr xs;” b ™ ie ' *»“ »
Tho “ d -**•
° ne ~P° n lh ' “” r “* ■”« •“
"‘“.nTS'l.riS “ “* —* **■ ~*
0M mth™,!" 1 in ’ “ ed “* ,lle «*t and tried to
soothe the parrot
By handing him the disn he loved-a piece of
sugared carrot. 1
116 tireless, not ' **“* Wretched bird > hut in a manner
Kept shrieking: “Joe, I want me cage and d-n
your rotten ‘wireless’!”
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


V^.
.VV«k
V £&%
</p % s
%% <■**■? ±
’ v<\\
v *>y
Iff \y.e
**>£»*& I* ov**”
A few captive kites worked
with windlasses, each to
carry two or more pas-
sengers.
Inflated rubber substitutes for Faith,
for use of foot passengers.
OF COURSE.—AN ECHO OF THE ”
Mri Hoofenberger : “ Andt how did you vote on
Mr. MHlionstein : “Oh, 1 followed der Noes L
Heavier-than-air
.scheme for the
truly fat.
Those who prefer a submarine pas-
sage, provided for as above. Water-
proof aluminium newspapers would
beguile the tedium of the trip.
“ If you meet a man in the street and he asks you to.have
a drink, knock him down, sit on his head, and don’t let him up
till he signs the pledge.”— Professor Anderson. Stuart.
Hop.’* way is to accept the offer, and in a less public manner
—in some retired bar—finds it easy to convinces bis tempter
that drink should be “put down.” 8
Aerial wire railway* wouldn’t cost much, and could be secured tojtress on
both sides of the harbor or to the present useless telephone-posts.
CARTOONLETS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(ThB Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
durability.
Trade Mark Case.
A warning.
It having come under our notice that various
substitutes are sometimes sold and passed off
as 0.T., notice is hereby given that this practice
is a breach of the Trade Marks Act, and con-
sequently illegal, as O.T. is a Registered Trade
Name, and applies only to the beverage made by
this Company.
After this date all persons who so continue to
pass off other drinks as O.T. will render them-
selves liable to proceedings under the “Common-
wealth Trades Marks Act.”
O.T. LIMITED,
F. Malvin Quinn,
March 1, 1911. Acting Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
AT THE PARTING.
A meeting of master hairdressers in Brisbane has
decided, in consequence of the increased cost of carry-
ing on business, to charge Is. instead of 6d. for hair-
cutting after May I. —News Item.
CITIZEN (tossing his only shilling): "Heads I
need a haircut , and tails I need a shave
and two drinks."
People have been busy wondering what
title Premier Weary, of Victoria, will bring back
with him. But John firmly avers that he will
not return from England with anything in the
shape of a knighthood.
HIS STAR TURN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In urging the rejection of the referendum proposals
Mr. Deakin said :“ We have a {treat Australia. Do not
let us leave it peopled by little Australians. "—Beautiful
wriggle reported recently.
List to the great contortionist,
And heed what he affirms
Who stands upon his head to twist
The truth about like worms:
“ Since two and two make five (or more),
Since snow is black as coal,
And since the part (as Euclid swore)
Is greater than the whole—
“ It follows, as the horse the cart,
Or head below the heels,
The finish ere the race’s start,
Or hunger after meals,
“As clear as mud, as short as long,
As sure as black is white—
That right-way-up is always wrong,
And wrong-way-up is right ;
“ Hence, as the single brick (you twig?)
Is larger than the wall.
Each tiny State is huge and big,
And big Australia, small! ”
His stupent audience cheer him high,
This dazzling star, forsooth,
Who cannot tell a straight-out lie
And scarce a straight-out truth :
The weirdest, wildest human freak
That ever did a twist!
" Three cheers for boneless Alf! ” they shriek,
“ The Great Contortionist! ”
VS.W.
AUGUSTUS BLOWFLY.
HOW TO RELIEVE THE PANGS OF
RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA
ETC.
A Prescription Free.
Ihe following simple prescription, written by a
very famous physician enjoying a most extensive
practice as a specialist in-all forms of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica and kidney and bladder troubles,
will be found to afford immediate relief, and, if
persisted in for a short time, will completely cure
tiiese troublesome ailments.
The Prescription.
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup
Rhubarb Aromatic, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola
Compound, one ounce; Syrup of Ginger, five
ounces.
The dose for adults is one teaspoonful taken
after meals, and one at bedtime. Children should
be given one-fourth to one-half teaspoonful, after
meals only.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few weeks
it will be found to be an almost absolutely certain
cure for rheumatism, kidney and bladder trouble,
backache and all allied complaints.*
At Newport (N.S.W.) there lives a fisher-
man of 70 years with 23 living children, the
youngest twins, aged three years. And the wife
of a Katoomba (N.S.W.) engineman has 27
children, all living.
John Hancock, the early Victorian Labor
member, once jokingly said that he had been
offered a title, but had declined. “For myself/’
he said, “I do not mind. But, if I died, Mrs,
Hancock could not possibly take in washing as
Lady Hancock.” '
A. W. Piper, Adelaide’s newly-made
K.C., has a caustic wit. ’Siah Symou, who had
been acidly cross-examining one of Piper’s wit
nesses, remarked that he was not feeling very
well. “ I’ve got a bitter taste in my month,” he
said. “Oh,” said Piper, “you’ve Leem biting
your tongue.”
“ Britishah ” : What’s this ? Cabled that
George may not go to India, after all'. Bine
funk ? On the part of the satraps, of course. It
was like that before. When brave, confident
King Ned went to India in 1875 they wanted him
to dodge round the coast. “No,” says he; “I
go right through.” And he did.
Two young S. Australian lawyer-sons of
two well-known fathers had a nonsensical argu-
ment lately as to which had the wider mouth,
and called upon “J.m” Anderson, K.C., to
decide. Anderson looked from one to the other,
and then refused to act on the ground that he was
no judge of distances.
Colonel McCay, who has been rushing
all over Victoria opposing the Referendum pro-
posal to give railway servants the benefit of the
Arbitration Act, was a member of the Reid
Government whose Arbitration Bill included rail-
way servants. If McCay knows nothing else
about drill, he anyhow became a thorough muster
of the right-about turn.
The contractors for repairing the Birre-
gurra State school, near Geelong, the other day
discovered under the foundation block a copy of
the Geelong ’Tiser for April 13, 1867. It con-
tained a report of the Ballarat Autuuiu Steeple-
chase ; and showed that Cadger, ridden by Adam
Lindsay Gordon, ran second to the favorite
Ingleside.
Died the other day, in Melbourne, William
Meudell, a former general-manager of the Bank
of Victoria, and father of various good Australians
—including George, now making his name as a
writer on the London financial press. Meudell,
sen., was a goldfields banker in the early days,
and then and in all his subsequent life trained
himself to keep his head cool; so, in the light of
subsequent events, it wasn’t atall surprising when
in 1891 he quitted Victorian banking, and would
have no more to do with it. Two years later came
the smash.
The finest collection of Nelson relics in
Australia is owned by Mrs. Wright, widow of Dr.
Horatio G. A. Wright, an old-fashioned physician
who practised for many years in Wynyard Square,
Sydney, and was a nephew of the famous admiral.
Dr. Wright’s practice was chiefly obstetric, and
for many years of his life he had so much to do
that he had little time to spend in bed, and got
most of his sleep in his fincient brougham as lie
went round to see people into this world.
Mrs. C. E. Williams, who died at Ballarat
a few days ago, lived for many years on Aus-
tralia’s only battlefield. In the ’so’s she and her
husband were camped in a tent at Eureka. For
some time previous to the actual hostilities Petbr
Lalor’s men did a good deal of pistol practice and
cleaning; wherefore, as a precaution, Mr. Wil-
liams built round his tent an embankment of
flour-bags filled with earth. Rummaging one
day, he lifted down a bag from the side of the
bed and found two bullets embedded in it—which
seemed to suggest that the precaution was neces-
sary. Mr. Williams was the first schoolmaster at
Eureka. Colonel Williams, Ballarat’s city clerk,
and formerly editor of the local Courier, is one
of his children.
S. Australian sheep-barbers have an idea
that, on records, Ewan Cameron is the nearest
approach to a shearing champion Australia has
had. Cameron (“ The Long Fellow ”), who came
from Myponga, got among the “ guns ” by
defeating Mclnnes at Bucldand Park in the latter
: 70’s, and thenceforward never held second blade
in any shed until he retired in 1905. His best
eight-hour tally was 285 fair sheep. Cameron was
pressed to be the Labor candidate for King
O’Malley’s old seat when the Sovereign left the
State House; but he stood out. He even stood
out after he had been gazetted a J.P., and wrote
in to the Government to say that he reckoned
there was enough of the breed already.
Maoriland has decided that it will be able
to worry through its geological survey work with-
out the aid of an imported director in succession
to Dr. Bell, who resigned recently ; and Percy G.
Morgan, formerly director of the School of Minesj
Waihi, and latterly in the Geological Survey
Department, has been placed in charge. Being
an M. A., a memberof the Australasian Institute of
Mining Engineers, a member of the Australasian
Association for the Advancement of Science, a
certificated land and mining surveyor, a battery
superintendent, and a certificated assayer of gold,
he seems to have some qualifications for the job.
Thomas Britt, who in 12 years in the ’so’s
and ’6o’s won nearly £lOO,OOO worth of gold from
his claim on the Huntly lead, Bendigo, died a few
days ago. He came to Victoria as engineer for
the Melbourne Argus, but after being there a
year the diggings called him, and he struck it
rich. He possessed some interesting inky-way
souvenirs. One of them was a copy of the Mel-
bourne Advertiser for January 3, 1838, pub-
lished in MS. by John Pascoe Fawkner. He had
also a copy of the Argus printed in gold on satin
—one of six issued when Sir Charles Hotham
arrived in 1854 to take over the Governorship.
Another curio was a copy of an address of wel-
come to Hotham. It was printed on a lorry while
the welcoming procession marched through Mel-
bourne and was distributed broadcast.
THE SCEPTIC.
SHE: “So you believe in nothing ?”
HE: “ I only believe—haw I—what I can under-
stand."
SHE: "Oh, well, 'sauce thing, I suppose !”
Young Australians ate not rushing the
British naval cadetships. .Eight of them are
made available to Australians every year; but
this year there is only one nomination, Aus-
tralians apparently having some faith in the
growth of their own navy. The nominee is a
son of Gapt. Pasco, of .Sydney.
Australian artist Rupert Bunny is coming
homeward With a crate of pictures for display in
Melbourne. Bunny has become moye consciously
French than any other Australian painter. He
has been a constant exhibitor in the Paris Salon
since 1886, and one of his canvases, “Aprds Le
Bain,” was bought by the French Government.for
the Luxembourg.
Memories of Macphersori, “The Wild
Scotchman,” a bushranger of the early days of
Bananaland, were revived the other day when a
Binghi was handed out 18 months by Justice
Shand at Cooktown fbr killing the Macpherson’s
son, James Ossian, at Koolburra (Q.j. “’The
Wild Scotchman’s ” own little lot for robbery-
under-arms was 25 years, but he only did a third
of it. ,
The South Au.s. Government, which is
considering the question of appointing an extra
Judge, announces that, if an appointment is
made, one of the terms shall be that, Before he
draws his monthly salary, the new man shall
certify that no matter in his Court has been hung
up for 'decision for more than 90 days. The curi-
ous condition is the result of the Chief Justice’s
vast capacity for brooding over his judgments.
Btill, this can be said for them when he does
deliver them—the Oldest Inhabitant can’t re-
member when one was upset on appeal.
Australia lost a good Protectionist and
Molong (N.S.W.) a good citizen, the other day,
by the death of John Black, the miller. Black,
who was a native of Ayrshire; (Scotland), claimed
to be a'descendant of Roderick Dhu. He came
into Australia in the golden ’s9’s, and after a
brief spell at milling, went mining on the Turon,
but made more money out of a battery. With
this capital he bought a flour mill at O’Connell
Plains, near Bathurst, and in 1877 founded another
at Molong, where he settled. When he died the
town went to the funeral as unanimously as
though it had lost a father.
Richard Rendle Holter, of Williamstown
(Vic.), an old seafarer, who sailed into port a few
days ago, was a survivor of one of the earliest and
most sensational wrecks on the Queensland coast.
The ship was the .Jenny Lind ; the year, 1850 ;
and the cause, Kent’s Reef. He and others lived
precariously on a rock for six weeks, during
which time they built a boat, and, after many
perils, reached the mainland. For the last 49
years he had held a Victorian Government billet
in connection (vith the lightering of explosives at
the Outer Anchorage arid Altona Bay.
The proposal of Victoria’s Minister for
Agriculture Graham that, instead of Federal
Ministers forwarding a stray “ fiver ” to help the
harvester trade strikers, they should give a
month s salary each—which would amount to
close on £l4oo—recalls the action of Chief Justice
Higinbotham during the maritime strike of 1891.
Higinbotham stpod almost alone amongst men
holding big public positions in justifying the
strikers, and made no bones about showing it in
the letter which has since, become historical :
The Chief Justice presents his compliments to the pre-
sident of the Trades Hall Council, and requests that he
will be so good as to place the amount of the enclosed
cheque of £5O to the credit of the strike flind. While the
united trades are awaiting compliance with their reason-
able request for a conference with the employers, the
Chief Justice will continue for the present to forward a
weekly contribution of £lO to the same object.
And he did, for 15 weeks.
The Bulletin the other day mentioned
the windfall which had come to a Maori*
land family, the Harringtons* through the
death of ah English relative* Bate got
busy adjusting the balance* however, for a
struggling Southend (Eng.) painter and
paperlntnger named Howard has been iti-
forhied that* by the death of ah Uncle who
Was a farmer and storekeeper hear Auclb
land* he has Come into £16,000. Yeats ago
Howafd worked in MaOriland fbt
the uncle; hut had a tbW With
hitn and left the Country ahd
his “ expectations ” at the same
titne. Now the old tnatt has
'come round to the hbpllew’f:
side of the argument hitnd-
somelV.
That ..bbtlidsidStiH
“fancier,” the late Mi"
Sam Hordern, so goes the
story, once ithported a pait
bf heautiful.English pigeons
for which he pa d some
£7O, and so carefully were
they looked after on the
Voyage that another £lO was
.spent in tips to stewards.
Wlien the steuiriei 1 athived
Sam went down aiicl gut
persohal ; theli hfe tjJbit
them to the offlhfe atid gafced loV-
iiigly at them for a quarter of an
hour-. Finally he silid to a mes-
.Senger : ‘‘Take them to Cook.”
Now, Cook Was the man in charge of
the pigeon-housd, but the messenger
did hot know this, arid t'dolc the priceless
birds to the 'cook, who wrung their necks and
served them up with a hew kind of sauce. How
the millionaire did enjoy his dinner !
The N.S.W. Treasury has had A windfall
in probate duty on the estate of squatter.). K.
Clark (son-in-law of old Jack Robfertson), whose
estate has been sworn at £197,230. The property
is left to the widow, two sons and one, daughter:
One of the sons is Capt. .RobehtsOh Clark) Who
was on Governor RitWson’s staff ahd UaS aftefa
Wards private sec. to Governor Islington of
Maoriland ; the other is in the British Diplomatic
Service.
The departure of Australasian Premiers to
the Coronation junket recalls an untold story of
Richard Seddon. Soon after he returned to
M.L. from high falutin’ at Queen Vic.’s diamond
Jubilee he paid a visit to Palmerston North,
where he was the guest of a local cattle magnate.
At the homestead he was invited by his host to a
glass of Dry Monopole, but expressed a preference
for a whisky and soda. “Do you always stick to
whisky and soda?” inquired the cow king.
“Well,” replied Seddon, “it’s this way. I pro-
posed returning to Maoriland by way of the Suez
Canal, and consulted the commodore doctor of
the line I was to travel by as to the dangers of
excessive heat on that route, I asked the doctor
whether it would be safe to drihk anything.
‘ What do you generally take?’ he ihtjuired ; and
I answered; ‘Whisky and soda.’ ‘All I can
say, then,’ quoth the doctor, ‘is that on the last
voyage from Australia we had five deaths from
excessive heat, and four of them were lemon-
squashers.’ That has been a solemn warning to
me ever since.”
SPEAKER GUINNESS, of the Maori[?]
Parliament ,
“ De Yid ” : The Bulletin Christianised
Ikey Jonas into “I. Jones” the other day
(30/3/H). Sim Cohen and Ike Jonas, the great
Ballarat restaurant and hotel rivals in the boom
times, were brothers in-law, and the business feud
spread into their private lives. Cohen, who had
made his money cheap jacking up country, started
business in the dilapidated hole known as the
“ Rats’ Castle.” He made a big fortune, but lost
most of it m speculation. As well known as
Cohep in those days was his henchman, Ike
Michaels. I met Michaels the other week, and
thought of ringing for an ambulance when he
mentioned, as frequenters of the Grand, “’Lijah
the Prophet.” “The Angel of Death,” and
“ Churchy-Half-a-Finger.” Likewise Bill Bailey
—Bill being a well-known mining man some 30
years back. The others were convivial spirits of
the same generation. They don’t seem to invent
nicknames like Churchy Half-a-Pinger ” now-
adays !


"Cap stan
The famous Brand of
W.D.&H.O.WILLS.
TOBACCO
Hi
7\
Ms
1
<v
V
J
SSii
i
&
v
f*s
*■
;
r
|M
The Favourite of Generations
THE name “WILLS* (the makers of “CAPSTAN ) has been
before the world for nearly two centuries in connection with the
manufacture of high-grade Tobacco.
From generation to generation the liking for “ CAPSTAN has
grown into a confirmed taste that is almost hereditary.
Made of the Very Finest Virginia Leaf, “CAPSTAN to-day
is the result of constant determination on the part of manufacturers to
“ keep the Quality up/*
IN AIRTIGHT TINS—I oz.. 2 oz., and 4 oz.
S STRENGTHS— MiId, Medium and Full. May also be bad in Plug form.


VTOTICE TO SAWMILLERS.—In stock in Sydney, 2 “ Robey ” 1911 Model Portable Steam Engines
Double Cylinders— 25 Nominal H.P. ( 87 Brake Horse-Power),
30 Nominal H.P. (IGS Brake Horse-Power).
Those requiring- prompt delivery for the most up-to-datJe Portable Engine should communicate with
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
Circular Quay (East), Sydney ; or 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
WT “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE ”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
To He- lte-
Profits. Dividends. server. serves.
Mar., 1903.. £7,380 5 p.c. = £3,750 £3,630 £32,095
5epi.,1903.. 6,819 6 ~ „ 4,500 2,319 34,414
Mar., 1904.. 7,556 6 ~ „ 4,500 3,056 37,470
S'-pt., 1904.. 7,333 6 ~ ~ 4,500 2,833 40,303
Mar., 1905.. 8,335 6 ~ ~ 4,500 3,835 44,138
S'pc., 1905.. 8,238 6 „ ~ 4,500 3,738 47,876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 ~ ~ 5,250 4,822 52,698
Sept.., 1906.. 10,179 7 ~ ~ 5,250 4,929 57,627
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 70.127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7 p.c. = 5,687 7.195 77.322
Sept., 1907.. 14.619 7 ~ ~ 7,000 7,619 84,941
Mar., 1908 . 13,517 7 ~ ~ 7,000 6,517 91,458
Sept., 1908.. 14,697 7 ~ „ 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 111,655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.c. --10,062 7,941 119,596
Sept,., 1909.. 11,974 7 „ ~10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 ~ ~ 10,500 8,049 135,119
Sept., 1910.. 18,844 7 ~ ~10,500 8,344 143,463
-Mar., 1911.. 20.529 7 ~ ~10,500 10,029 153,492
This infant among Australian banks —it was born
in 1888, and there has been no increase in the
family since—is putting on flesh very fast. Its ad-
vances have increased in the past 12 months by no
less than £437,834, which means that they arc
now more than one-third greater than they were a
year ago. Under ordinary circumstances this very
rapid growth would create some suspicion. Of
course most people try to convince themselves that
these prosperous times are going to last. In fact,
there are plenty who say that these times are not
really prosperous compared with those we are going
to have. This paper, however, declines to take the
view that the country won’t sulfer from any more
set-backs. There is going to be a pretty general
drought some day, and it won’t be any the less a
■drought if there are twice as many farmers as there
were 20 years previously. Also, the time will in-
evitably come when the States will have to either
leave off borrowing altogether or borrow most spar-
ingly ; and that will mean the stoppage of the vast
construction works which are now absorbing tons
of thousands of men. The value put upon land is to
a great extent governed by the return which it is
yielding. It won’t always yield the return it has
done during the past few years of fat harvests and
fat prices. It is as certain, then, as anything can
be, that the pendulum will swing back, though this
paper isn’t prepared to say how far it will swing.
For that reason, when a bank has made the bulk of
its advances during the last year or two, one must
look upon it as having probably made those advances
on a basis of inflated values. In this case of the
Royal, however, the position isn’t quite as suspicious
as it would be ordinarily, because this bank lus
lately opened in Sydney, where no doubt it had
friends ready to transfer their business from other
banks.
The large increase of advances already noted has
put no strain upon the bank. This shows the prin-
cipal figures:—
March, March,
1910. 1911.
Notes in circulation .. £15,877 £18,917 Inc. £3,040
Bills in circulation, etc. 96,333 157,417 Inc. 61,084
Deposits at interest ..1,007,571 1,223,299 Inc. 215,728
Free deposits .. .. 536.320 711,291 Inc. 174,971.
I.iquidassets .. .. 8<>4.721i 841.998 Inc. 37,269
Advances .. .. 1,232,904 1,670,738 Inc. 437,834
Premises, etc. ... .. 64,088 63,545 Dec. 543
Money has thus come in faster than it has gone out,
so that the liquid assets represent just upon 40 p.c.
of the total liabilities —a most substantial propor-
tion. Not only is this an effective buffer against
any ordinary shock, but it puts the bank in a good
position to take new business. Further, notwith-
standing that the deposits have come in so well, the
bank is still by no means overloaded with public
money in comparison with its own funds. For one
thing, it has kept its dividends modest; and has laid
by large reserves ; for another, it lately increased its
capital and asked for very fair premiums on the
shares. Thus, between one thing and another, the
liabilities of all kinds total only £4 13s. for every
£ 1 of shareholders’ funds—a proportion which is
believed to be very well on the safe side.
Comparing them with capital and reserves com-
bined, the profits are very good indeed: —
Bept., 1907.. £lO 10 10 p.c. Sept., 1909.. £8 11 4 p.c.
Mar., 1908.. 9 9 9 „ Mar., 1910.. 813 9 „
Sept., 1908,. 10 1 8 ~ Sept., 1910.. 813 3 ~
Mar., 1909.. 9 311 ~ Mar., 1911.. 9 5 2 „
A good profit return of this kind doesn’t necessarily
mean sound business. Just before the smash of the
Melbourne boom, , banks were showing 12 p.c. on
their funds; it simply meant that, the securities
being doubtful, or the borrowers being reckless or
unduly optimistic, a very high rate of interest was
charged. Unfortunately in such cases the usual plan
is to add the interest on to the principal; and when
there was a slump of the asset which was supposed to
guarantee the principal, the interest vanished. So
the profit was not really earned, and the profit-earn-
ings were bogus. Profit earned is not, therefore, an
infallible test. On the other hand, under normal
conditions, a high rate of earning 3, calculated on
capital and reserves combined, ought to mean that
the capital and reserves are real —possibly even that
the assets are worth more than book-value, the sur-
plus constituting an undisclosed reserve. All that
can be said is that, on the figures, this bank’s posi-
tion and prospects are exceedingly good.
The City and Suburban Building Society
( Brisbane) :
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to He- Re-
Feii., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £5914 4 p.c. = £4007 £2ll £1696 £12,025
1901.. 4937 4 ~ „ 3221 556 1160 13,185
1902.. 4778 4 ~ ~ 3221 1,417 140 13.325
1903.. 4502 4 ~ ~ 3219 1,192 91 13,416
1904.. 4547 4 3159 1,353 35 13,451
1905.. 4381 4 „ „ 3185 10,380 4,267
1906.. 4142 4 ~ ~ 3190 463 489 4,756
1907.. 4201 4 „ ~ 3196 594 411 5,167
1908.. 4388 4 ~ ~ 3184 718 486 5,653
1909.. 4552 4 ~ ~ 3173 421 958 6,611
1910.. 506 S ih „ „ 3376 1,280 412 7,023
1911.. 5329 4f ~ ~ 3801 347 1181 8,204
This society is just about out of the old wood;
whether it is getting into a new one time only will
tell. But, unless there is shocking misgovernment,
the new forest —if there is a new one—-won’t be as
thickly populated with devils as the old one. The
only thing that can do much damage to a decentiy-
managed building society is a sudden slump in pros-
perity and values. Now, even a bad season won’t
produce a sudden slump. But a sudden stoppage of
public and private borrowing, coupled with the
wholesale withdrawal of private deposits, will do it.
When several banks are called upon to repay large
sums quickly, and when their own tills are not
strong enough to meet the strain, the only thing
they can do is to realise quickly; and that
means a smash of values. Then the building
society suffers. The stoppage of public and private
borrowing I:brows thousands out of work ; their dis-
missal affects others; borrowers can’t keep up their
payments; and when the assets are thrown on the
society s hands, the dread of more forced sales only
demoralises the market worse than ever. The Bul-
letin doesn’t say, and never has said, that nobody
can make money by borrowing; on the contrary, it
has said that sometimes it is a case of Borrow or
Burst. But the borrowing habit is like the drink
habit- it grows, and the worse it grows the more
disastrous are likely to be the results of a sudden
stoppage. Yet in nine cases out of 10 there has to
be a sudden stoppage, for the simple reason that no-
body will lend.
During this society’s last year £42,605 was ad-
vanced, as against £17,363 in 1906. “On the other
hand, owing to the increased prosperity of the
people, the repayments have been correspondingly
larger, consequently the amount due by borrowers
has only increased from £137,949 in 1910 to
£139,395 in 1911.” Properties in possession,
though they are lumped with “Borrowers” in the
accounts, are said by the directors to have been re-
duced to £2957. No doubt this was the weak spot
in the co.’s affairs; and the directors have made a
splendid clearance. But that means that property
values have risen to something like their old level :
ana, as new loans have no doubt been made on this
basis, there is plainly some risk of a new crop of
losses, through another slump. Still, on present
appearances, there won’t be a sudden slump. Gov-
ernments certainly are borrowing extravagantly; but
the banks, even if they have been taking money,
have been keeping very large sums in hand; and so,
unless something quite unexpected happens, there
won’t be any violent rush to realise properties. Be-
sides, there has been no pouring of foreign deposit
money into Australia—and it was that foreign
money which caused the trouble in the ’9o’s. There
may, then, be a set-back in values, but it is not
likely that there will be a sudden and severe one;
consequently such a carefully-managed society as
this should come to no harm. As for the depositors,
they are most abundantly protected. Total liabili-
ties—mainly deposits—are £74,686, and the paid
capital is £72,857 ; so, with reserves, the share-
holders have more in the business than the deposi-
tors, etc., have; which means that the depositors
and other creditors would be safe even if some ap-
palling disaster knocked off 50 p.c. of the book-
value of the assets.
* * * *
I’ooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Sydney:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits, Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1903.. £39,053 8 p.c. =£36,000 £3,053 £148,528
Mar., 1904.. 43,414 8„ , 36,000 7,414 155,942
Sept., 1904.. 37,570 8,, ~ 36,000 1,570 157,512
Mar., 1905.. 46,964 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,9(>4 168,476
Sept., 1905 . 37,394 8„ ~ 30,000 1,394 169,870
Mar., 1906.. 46,532 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,532 180,402
Sept., 1906.. 38,286 8,, „ 36,000 2,286 182,688
Mar., 1907.. 45,156 8,, ~ 36,000 9,156 191,844
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 ~ ~ 45,000 8,889 200,733
Mar., 1908.. 75,071 10 ~ ~ 45,000 30,071 230,804
Sept., 1908.. 62,904 10 ~ ~ 45,000 17,904 248,708
Mar., 1909.. 75,372 10 „ ~ 45,000 30,372 279,080
Sept., 1909.. 64,123 10 „ „ 45,000 19,123 298,203
Mar., 1910.. 78,382 10 „ ~ 45,000 33,382 331,585
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 ~ ~ 45,000 26,330 357,915
Transferred to Capital, £100,000.. 257,915
Mar., 1911.. 107,833 10 p.c. = 50,000 57,833 315,748
ihis is a remarkable jump. But, as has been often
observed here, there have been various reasons why
Australian brewing cos. should put a little by.
Right months ago, for instance, it wasn’t at all cer-
tain how the Prohibition vote would go in N. S.
M ales. The anti-beer party might have won; and
if it had, bang* would have gone considerably mere
than sixpence of this co.’s assets, because the assets
consist largely of hotel properties, for the goodwill
of which, no doubt, as much has been paid in many
cases as for the premises. That is to say, the
brewery co. has no doubt often paid as much for the
right to work the beer-pump as for the visible pro-
perty; and the right to work the pump depends en-
tirely upon an uncertain vote of the people. More-
over, it looked as though the inclination of the
people was to vote the beer-pump down. The anti-
beer party, however, failed badly ; hence the manage-
ment of this co. doubtless feels justified now in put-
ting by less to provide for contingencies' than it had
been doing previously. All the' same, though the
last test was all against the no-beer party, the
brewery and pub investor who thinks that that settles
matter is, liable to be badly surprised presently.
Ihe Judkins party collapsed so badly, simply because
it campaigned so badly. If it had been satisfied to
go for reduction, it might have won. It may have
sense enough to do that some other time. If it does,
and wins, a few hundred more pubs may be wiped
out ; and with them will go half or two-thirds of
’heir value to the brewery co. or other landlord.
?or the pub that will go first is the pub that has
feast value except as a shed to shelter, the beer-pump,
and the tinted Venus who works it,
Besides anything that it may have done intqrnaHv,.
the co. has been visibly strengthening its position
for many years past. The following shows the move-
ment in 10 years:—•
1901. 1911.
Liamlities . £26,844 £32,160
Assets— .
Brewery, plant and properties .. 670,789 714, 088.
Book debts 208,910 185,536
Stock 59,428 120,041
Liquid assets 148,410 383,243
No capital has been got in; yet, with practically no
increase of liabilities—they only amount to a few
trade debts —the liquid assets have increased by
£234,833. Meantime, there has been a big increase
in stock ; and what has been put into premises, pro-
perty and plant nobody knows who doesn’t know a
great deal more than the published accounts tell him.
The liquid assets consist of bank deposits and public
securities; and there’s a nice steady little £13,500
or so coming in now every year from that source.
Perkins and Co.. Ltd., brewers, etc., of Queens,
land, wh'o some years ago transferred £41,667 of
reserves to capital (in the following table the djv.
is calculated on the original amount, and the £41,667
is included with the reserves) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1900.. 124,404 15 5-6 p.c. = £9,698 £14,706 £58,308
1901.. 26,165 16J „ „ 10,208 15,957 74,265
1902.. 28,496 18$ „ „ 11,229 17,207 91,532
1903.. 26,565 23$ ~ ~ 14.292 12,273 103.805
1904.. 23,435 25 ~ ~ 15,313 8,122 111,927
1905.. 26,236 34 ~ ~21,000 5,236 117 163
1906.. 25,697 40 „ „ 24,500 1,197 118,360
1907.. 25,350 34 „ „ 21,000 4,350 122,710
1908.. 25,223 34 ~ ~ 21,000 4,223 126,933
1909.. 25,572 34 „ „ 21,000 4,572 131,505
1910.. 27,215 34 „ ~ 21,000 6,215 137,720
1911.. 24,701 34 ~ ~ 21,000 3,701 141,421
The directors make no mention of a dividend for
the second half of the past year; but in the fore-
going it has been assumed that the usual will be
paid. In the days when Peter Perkins was Queens-
land’s Jonah, this co. did a big business, and had
its hand on many a beer-pump and the premises
around it. When the boom blew up, the co. was
knocked into the soup, and it looked at one time as
though it was hardly worth trying to get it out.
After an attempt to square things by writing down
the capital from £162,500 to £87,500, the at-
tempt at salvage was, in fact, abandoned, and a new
co. was formed with a capital of £58,333. Then
the tide turned. Queensland had never lost its
mouth, though for a time it hadn’t the means to
often wet it; but soon the wetting began again in
earnest. The co.’s position improved so fast that
£41,667 of reserves were transferred to capital;
and on the total capital of £lOO,OOO thus built up,
the recent dividend is, of course, at the rate of 20
p.c. Even on the old capital of £162,500 it would
be equal to over 12 p.c.; so the recovery can be put
down as very thorough indeed. Nevertheless, it will
be noticed that, though Queensland has made much
progress during the past six years, the profits are
not as good now as they were even in 1903, which
was a droughty year. Wages and the cost of the
things whereof beer is made have moved up ; but a
part of the shrinkage in profit is due to the fact
that rival breweries got new supplies of brains and
energy, and have in some directions been pinching
Perkins’s hard. “The net profit, you will see,” says
the directors’ report, “is somewhat less than last
year, but that is due to our being forced to reduce
the price of beer from November 31 last on account
of the unbusincss-like tactics of one of the other
breweries.” It tastes like trouble.
Still there is a big field, and a dry one ; and the
co. is in a strong position. This shows the move-
ment in some important respects in 10 years:—
1901. 1911.
Liabilities.. ; ..iris,l37 £35...741
Stock, book debts and ea>h .. 76,989 129,374
Sui'plu ■ .. J'48,852 £93,533
Besides this increase in the surplus of more or less
liquid assets, considerable sums have also been spent
out of profits on freeholds and plant. This snows
the movements in tpore detail
. I<XK>. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Liabilities ... .. £12,492 £‘i0,627 £25,622 £3.5,741
Freeholds, plant, etc. 64,(>79 104,415 108,957 116 T“>
Swek.B 32,301 41,827 41,738 43,027
Loans, hook debts, etc. 31,324 &1.149 71,364 76 050
Cash balances.. .. 5,934 10,575 10,118 U)’l9l
Profits on sales, etc... 36,135 36,866 38,802 36,083
General expenses .. 11,731 11,660 11-517 11,203
The comparative smallness of the liabilities is an ex-
cellent feature; and, though they have been added to
during the year, the money, apparently; hasn’t gone
into pub property—it has gone into beer-making"
plant and accessories. A good deal depends on die
amount of profit written off to cover depreciation.
Obviously, if things were allowed to go to wreck
and ruin, so that a pot of money would have to be
spent on renewals, the alleged profits would not have
been earned. Visibly £1639. was written off to
cover depreciation last year, which is about the same
as usual. If that is all that is provided out of re-
venue to pay for replacements and renewals, it pro-
bably isnt enough; but it is possible that more or
less in the way of “repairs” is charged straight to
working expenses. The co. certainly has been pros-
it''™ 13 en ° UB ' h t 0 haVe been very libera l in that re-
Niciiolson and Co., Tjtd., which took over
an old-established, but not well-organised, mujsi.c
business in Sydney about four years ago, and has
since been making very rapid progress:—
„ . Written To Re- Re-
,, Profits. . Qividends. Off. series, serves.
Mar., ’09.. £3489 10 p.c. =£3601 £3BO £lOB £5,720
Mar., TO.. 6463 10 ~ „ 3446 . 2"1 2816 8,536
Sept.,TO.. 4424 10 ‘,., „ 2486 386 1552 10,088
Premiums on new shares, £2450 .. .. 12 538
Mar.,’ll.. 6655 10p.c.= 2890 1512 2253 14*791
During the past six months £2450 fell into the’re-
serves, representing .premiums on a new issue of
shares. In the balance-sheet the reserve fund ac-
count is represented , as, £8450; it is proposed to
appropriate £3750 to ‘ that account, “makin'"’ it
£12,000 ” If won’t add up to that; possibly it is
the printer again. Still £2OO is neither here nor
there to this extraordinarily successful co. Twelve
months ago its capital was,. £36,113; now It is
74 ’?i 00 ’ , anc * £ 24,000 of that was only '%t in
the other day, at a premium of 2s. per £1 share
Assuming, however, that the average’capital for the
year was £50,000, it will be that the profits
amounted to about 22 p.c. Certainly the co. writes
off a good deal: But, depreciatioii is charged direct
to Profit and Loss, and the 1 amounts shown as
written off are mostly special appropriations; £5OO,
or the past half-year’s lot, for in’stahee, is in “re-
duction beyond usual depreciation of 10 p.c.,-written
off m book values of fixtures, fittings, plant and
lolling stock. Ihe co. has. pushed' out its busi-
ness to Newcastle and Orange, and into Queensland *
and m February the co. bought a Qfieen-street, Bris-
bane, block for C 16.739. and is to thereon erect
and equip a main Queensland depot. These move-
ments, coupled with a big extension of the business
111 Sidney, have put the co. further into debt, in
spite of the increase of capital. Principal move-
ments are noted in this little list:— '
, . ..... 190 l- 1919. i9ii.
Lrabil'ties .. £16,659 £23,439 £43,078
Stock . .. 22, i6s 23,721 34,617.
Book debts .. 30,729 45,989 80 850
Freeholds .. Nil 22 16,’761
Miscellaneous.. 2,660 ‘ 2,054 4,843
I he" bulk of the book debts are amounts owing under
lure agreements; and the total amount owing is dis-
counted to provide for insurance and interest during
tac currency of the agreements. No doubt there is
some risk in this business; but the risk.is a dimin-
lsiimg quantity, and unless there should be a sudden
and serious slump in the prosperity of the people, the
losses should not be: heavy. In that respect the.
position is much the same as it is in connection
with bmWing societies. The building society is no
doubt in rather the more favorable position, for since
a family must have a house of some-sort, and since
it needn t have a piano, in ease of a pinch the piano
would be thrown up first. . Still the dealer in
pianos apparently gets very well paid for the extra
nsk. The co. is not handicapped with any good-
wlU ° ther P a P er items; it got in right “on the
ground floor; it started under the most favorable
circumstances; and it evidently has push and organ-
ising skill behind it. •
* * * *
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profiis. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £1392 7£ p.c. =£6l6 £125 £651 £2,590
June, 1905.. 1352 7j „,, 616 736 3 326.
Dec., 1905.. 1378 7j ~ ~ 616 —' '762 4*oBB
Premium 011 new shares .. 3294 7 382
June, 1906.. 1726 10p.c.= 1419 397 7,’689
Premium on new shares .. 5000 12,689
Dec., 1906.. 1046 10 p.c. = 2000 11,735
Premium on new shares .. 262 11 997
June, 1907.. 2022 10 p.c. = 2000. 22 12’0i9
Dec., 1907.. 2069 JO' „ ~ 2000 69 12 088
June, 1908.. 2838 10 ~ ~ 2199 639 12,727
Premium on new shares .. 4979 17 706
De 6., 1908.. 2110 10 p.c. = 2400 17,416
Premium on new shares .. 152 171568
June,1909.. 2022 10p.c.= 2518 17!072
Premium on new shares .. 13 17 085
Dec., 1909.. 1879 7£p.c.= 1875 4 17*089
Premium on new shares .. 16 17 105
June, 1910.. 5 Nil 5 ll’no
Dec., 1910.. 780 5 p.c.= 1250 16*640
These accounts gibber at you like a skeleton. The
Profit and Loss statement consists praeticallv of two
items —plain, bald, “Receipts” on one side, and
plain, bald “Expenses, including- depreciatioh,” on
the other. There isn’t a hint as to what the de-
preciation amounts to. Too much may be written
off, or too little. If too much, then the net profit
is of course under-stated. This ■ paper knows no
reason, however, why the profit should be under-
stated. Yet, if it is not under-stated, the 5 p.c.
dividend for the half-year should most certainly not
have been paid. As a matter of fact it absorbs not
only all the half-year’s profit, and the profit for the
previous half-year, but all the surplus profit: for the
previous 18 months, and the premiums received on
shares as well. The policy fills this critic with
distrust. The co.’s liabilities, mostlv on overdraft
and mortgage, amount to £16,906; ‘but the credi-
tors don’t worry—they are no doubt well protected,
if not by the ferrv property ( £46,288), then by the
freeholds, etc. (£34,684), which the co. has ac-
quired about the harbor, mainly for picnic purposes.
Apparently they are a mighty poor investment, so
far, anyhow, as a speedy return is concerned.
The Civil Service Co-operative Societt of
Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Dividend
(5p.c.) Written To Re- De-
Profit. and Bonus. Off. serves. fieit.
July, 1904.. £-258 £638 £457
Jan., 1905.. 1896 £1331 265 £3OO 157
July, 1905.. 1637 1441 215 176
Reserves.
Jin., 1906.. 2661 1786 440 435 259
July, 1906.. 1884 1864 267 12
Jan.,1907.. 3450 2607 471 372 384
July, 1907.. 3483 3000 757 110
Dividend only
(no Bonus).
Jan., 1908.. 2493 1209 998 286 396
July, 1908.. 164 Nil Nil 164 560
Loss.
Jan., 1909.. 220 Nil Nil 340
Defii-ir.
July, 1909.. -3712- Nil Nil 3372
Profit.
Jan.,1910.. 2034 Nil Nil 2034 1338
July, 1910.. 1694 Nil 356 1338
Capital f u'teited, 4062
Jan., 1911 .. 935 Nil 935
‘Subject to note hereunder.
The trouble, or, rather, one of the troubles of this
co-operative co. was that the co-operators wouldn’t
co-operate. Consequently, after much discussion, a
new rule was passed, and came into force in August,
1909, providing for a penalty of £1 on the share-
holder who failed to spend £l2 per annum in pur-
chases with the co. In the first 12 months tnese
fines, or forfeitures of capital, amounted to £4062,
or about l-15th of the total ; and this amount has
been written off to cover depreciation. For the past
six months it is calculated that the total forfeitures
will be and this amount will also be written
off in the same way. The trading profit for the half-
year goes into the same sink. Tnese heavy writings-
off now are the result of the failure to provide for de-
preciation when the clouds hung very heavy over the
co. Not that they have lifted altogether. Thus —
“The Board feels that the position of the stores,
distant as they are from the retail trade centre, is a
serious impediment”; and it is thought that things
might be better “if the business were removed to
premises occupying a more central position.” So
the co. is to shift, and try to let or sell the Flinders-
street premises, which it should never have acquired
- —at any rate, when it did. The co. paid £10,750
for jthe land and £17,622 for the building, besides
£1765 for premises in the Lane, and this at a time
when the whole capital could well have been em-
ployed in the business. The liability with which the
co. loaded itself scared many shareholders; for the
premises, were far beyond the requirements of the co.
ilk the co. can get out of the place now, without
more than a nominal loss—and in view of the appre-
ciatton of land values it may be able to get out at
no loss at all—the co. should sell, rid itself as far
as possible of debt, and make a fresh start on the
more Vmodest scale which befits its infancy. The
present debts amount to £46,917, incurred for this
Flinders-street property, for the bakery (£22,812),
and.- on account of sundry trading purchases. The
bakery, which met with so many unexpected diffi-
culties that it also appears to have been an ill-
considered outbreak, is now doing better. A working
profit of £605 was shown for the half-year; but for
some reason or other interest is charged against this
•department, and only the balance is transferred to
• Profit arid. Loss. This,, apparently, means one of two
things: either that the total amount payable by the
co. for interest is not disclosed by the Profit anti
Loss account, or interest is dqbited to the bakery
account and credited on the other hand to the other
part of the business. 1 It is not a satisfactory way of
doing things. The net result seems to be to put' the
general stores business in too favorable a light.
In a note to the tahle printed on top of these re-
marks, the profit, etc.) for the past' few .half-years
is stated with a reservation. In the Appropriation
account, which you will find at tne back of the
balance-sheet, there is this astonishing item —“Error
ill sundry creditors, July. 24, 1909, and January 22,
1910, £848.” There is not a word abo’ut this in
the directors’ report; on the contrary, \it says—
“ The net profit is £935, and has been applied to
depreciation.” As a matter of fact, it now appeals
thit, instead of the loss for the half-year ending
July,, 1909, being £3712) it was £B4B more than
that; and the error has had to be made good out of
the past; year’s profits; so that instead of £1291
being' written off for depreciation, only £443 has
actually been available. Thu Bulletin hopes that
the mqddling to which the co.’s business has been
subjected, is now at an end. Co-operation can’t
stand: having heaped on its chest, many such monu-
ments of ineptitude as the institution has supplied.
*. * * *
The N.S.W. Labor Government is going
I? introduce various financial, reforms. It. is going
to establish a sinking fund to extinguish the public
debt in 60 years or so ; it is trying to amalgamate
the two savings banks; it proposes to follow S. Aus.
and Victoria, and make State Bank advances to
people''Who want to secure homes of their own ; and
it thinks that when public works: show a profit, that
profit should go in reduction of the . debt owing on
them. These are all very excellent proposals and
principles. But while the Government is relieving
the load of debt-at the tap, it is increasing it at
a tremendous rate at the bung. Acting-Premier
Holman says he doesn’t believe in the no-borrowing
fad.” Probably no man in Australia is, however,
less qualified to express an opinion about finance
than he is. It is a subject which, he hasn’t the
temperament to master. Nevertheless, Holman ought
to be the most strenuous anti-borrower. He is a
Socialist; and Socialism means the ownership of
the instruments of production and distribution. Of
course Holman may say that he owns a coat if he
has merely ' borrowed it, or the, money to buy it;
but when the lender calls for the coat, Holman
may find reason to change his opinion. Also, he
may find himself dreadfully cold.
Some of the tens of thousands who pay
to go to the Sydney Easter Show wohder, no doubt,
what becomes of all the money. The Agricultural
Society of N.S.W. has just issued its accounts for
1910, and the document tells them. The revenue
for the year, was. £23,965, of which : £18,052 came
from Show receipts (gates, booths, bars, entry fees,
etc.). The rest was from members’ subscriptions,
Government subsidy (£1000), and ground rents,
etc. Prizes,ran to £4640 (cash, £4538 ; ribbons,
£59) medals, £43) ; exhibition exes, (gate-men,
bands, luncheons for officials, etc.), £4961. Then
there are the permanent staff (£2974), rates and
taxes, maintenance, insurance, etc.) £9182 was
spent on improvements; and there still remained
£1507 to put in the stocking—-from which it will
no doubt be taken to pay for still more permanent
improvements.
Pink Tape : It was Twaddell, who a«
State Treasurer, in 1902, introduced the idea of
N. S. Wales insuring its own property; and, though
started in a small way, the scheme looked pro:i» : sing.
But the Carruthers Government reached the Trea-
sury, collared the fund, and killed it dead. Now the
THE SQUOZEN RACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Victorian Treasurer Watt complains that Aus-
tralian State Governments are viciously “squeezed”
every time they go to England for a loan, or with a
conversion scheme. He wants the Premiers at the
Coronation to put their heads together to devise
some means of dodging the “squeeze.”
What time we venture over seas.
Ma country greets us with a squeeze.
The,chest she hugs us to is cold
And hard—in fact, a chest of gold.
So we are taught our proper place.
The Chosen? Nay, the Squozen race!
VICTORIA.
S.S.


BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. 11
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Mcfnwpn Government proposes to revive it. Of
murse Private Enterprise says the thing . can t be
course, pj? to digest this: Some years
ago k luminous individual started the notion of pay-
ing all the premiums collected from the public ser-
vants on their fidelity policies into the Treasury, the
Treasury in turn to pay up for embezzlements and
breaches of trust In a few ooo
credit balance of between £15,000 and £2U,ouu.
Nowadays insurances in the fund are only nominal.
Everv officer is insured at the proper figure, but
premiums are not collected, and unless someone goes
through the Government in a wholesale way they
never”will be. I’d be overcome to know what that
fund would have amounted to if P.E. had been
doing the business and hauling in the premiums
with the regularity of a well-oiled clock.
* * *
Kyloe (N.S.W.) doesn’t talk too cheer-
fully about the flotation process, which some people
have been relying upon to get the co. out of its
troubles arising from long road carriage and poor
fuel supplies. “On account of the small percentage
of mineral contained in this ore, as compared with
that previously treated by the flotation process,
several modifications in the machine have been found
necessary.” It sounds as though the ore is too poor
to pay unless the plant can be induced to digest
more of it. #
C S A., near Cobar, has been run very
quietly for some time past. It was thought once
that Great Cobar would purchase the show because
of the fairly large blocks of basic ore developed;
but nothing came of the talk. Just at present tne
south-east crosscut from No. 3 level is facing very
solid basic ore. Prospects also show improvement
in the south drive from No. 5 crosscut, the face
showing 8 p.c. ore. A winze is down 26ft. on this
ore body, and the ground is becoming softer and
more favorable for a make of ore on the footwall.
So far nothing very big has been found, but there
is still a sporting chance of a valuable discovery.
Principal Westralian results for March: —
Re- Pro- Value
Tons. venue. fit. per ton
Great Boulder .. .. 18,221 £48,500 £24,413 53/3
Golden Horseshoe .. 26,377 37,352 3,583 28/4
Kalgurli .. .. 10,820 23,029 10,515 42/7
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 13,500 23,605 8,447 35/-
I van hoe 20,104 41,343 18,003 41/1
Boulder Perseverance.. 20,344 28,928 8.236 28/5
Great Kingall .. .. 10,606 15,558 2,321 29/4
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,528 11,953 2,109 25/1
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,673 5.88 S 3,002 44/-
Hill's Proprietary .. 2,200* 3,090 1,387 28/1
Ilainault .. .. .. 4,870 6,901 754 28/4
Orova-Blacic Range .. 4,590 9,286 2,491 40/6
Bulifinch Prop. ... 230 7,874 34/4/8
Jda H. 1,200 4,393 1,200 73/3
Mararoa .. .. .. 2,421 4,161 34/5
Lake View Consols . . 8,142* 1,713 488 4/3
Menzies Consolidated .. 2,175 3,776 229 34/9
Gwalia South .. .. 2,189 3,671 900 33/8
Associated .. .. 5,435 12,198 —-
Boulder No. i .. 2,287 2,687 203 45/-
Associated Northern .. 1,261 f 3,779 60/-
Chaffers 3,435 4,570 34 26/8
Ingliston Extended .. 860 2,133 497 49/7
Black Range ..' .. 2,264 6,933 1401 61/3
Lake View and Star .. 13,314 16,490 1,2091 24/9
Oroya Links . .. 7,969 8,573 878 21/6
Sirdar •• .. .. 1,100 630 139 11/6
* Accumulated residues only, t Including tributors
ore. 1 £2255 and £3634 expended on new plant respect-
ively.
* * * *
Doolette’s refusal to acquire the optioned
Corinthian property (W.A.) is a clear indication
that London isn’t having any more Yilgarn side-shows
until it sees how Bullfinch shapes. The sale price
was fixed at £25,000 cash; and as Doolette is part-
owner, and has already spent £lOOO of his own
money in getting the property ready for the market,
its purchase and subsequent flotation, either singly
or in conjunction with the Oroya Exploration Co.’s
lease, was considered a certainty.
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : There is a big fly
somewhere in Bullfinch’s /ointment. My reasons for
asserting this are—(l) Failure of co. to sink on the
rich ore below 100 ft., after the London Financial
Times's official announcement that orders had been
“sent put” to do this work ; (2) tne uncontradicted
statement that in stoping above 100 ft. the ore tapers
away, and that this is the real reason for the discon-
tinuance of ore treatment at Kalgoorlie; (3) the
fact that, in spite of a big depreciation in market
valuation, no independent mining engineer has been
called in to give . shareholders his view of things.
Only the other dav Pierre Ledo- x went below on be-
half of a few privileged London, Paris and Brussels
speculators, but before being allowed to do so he
had to give his word that he would not pass on his
impressions to the papers. In other words, Ledoux
and his friends were permitted to have a look in to
the detriment of the general body of shareholders.
Another thing which suggests that there is more be-
neath than appears on the surface is the report that
certain London operators have sold shares freely in
Adelaide, and at , the same time have cancelled the
numbers of the sold share certificates on the London
register, and cabled those figures to ■ enable prompt
delivery of new scrip to be made by the Adelaide
office. What foundation there is for. this report re-
mains to be seen; but one thing is certain -tens
of thousands of shares have lately come out irom
London, and in a greased-ligbtning sort of way, too.
So much of this stock was bought at between 555.
and 655. that it. is no wonder a howl of dissatis-
faction has been raised in the West over D. L. Doo-
lette’s naive statement that the “market value of the
property is still in the mine.” It is poor satisfaction
to the reckless gamblers who got in at the top of
the market at the time Doolette and his friends were
puffing the mine and alleging that there was half a
million sterling or more visible to the naked eye.
Randolph Bedford: Bulletin (G/4/’ll)
quotes Gerard Williams, the Times person who
showed his knowledge of Westralian mining by
talking of jewellers’ shops in buck quartz, like the
Wealth of Nations and Londonderry, in the same
breath as Bullfinch, and who cud his best to turn
down Elliotts at 30s. The Bullfinch did not show
more than lOdwt. samples at surface, except im-
mediately west of No. 1. and there the iron con-
cealed the gold in the dish and made the ounces
look like dwts. No. 4 shaft was from poverty at
the surface to Bdwt. at 52ft., when the 6oz. ore came
in. Williams is one of those wise young persons
whose wisdpm is after the event. He considers there
should be no delay in sinking existing shafts. A
main shaft is going down as quickly as it can be
sunk —after a delay for winding gear —and is down
120 ft. If Williams’s idea of mining is to keep on
sinking in hard lode instead of in soft country, this
only proves that Williams is Williams. When did
these indiscriminate negatives of professional pessi-
mism make a field? But for the optimist most Aus-
tralian mining would be down and out to-day. Simi-
larly Williams, who took most of his tale from one
of the defendants in the Chaffinch case, says of the
Chaffinch a month or more after the mullocky leader
had cut out, “Nor, indeed, did I see anything which
had been exposed that appeared even likely to carry
gold.” Quartz never docs, does it? “I have ex-
amined specimens which came from the trench, and
the gold is very similar to the gold in similar horn-
blendic schists in the N.E. Coolgardie goldfield.
Where did Williams see specimens similar to C.ia.-
finch in situ? His knowledge of N.E. Coolgardie is
so recent that his experience of the oxidised ores ot
Kalgoorlie must surely have been gained in a museum.
“If any other such pocket be found in the same
rock, I shall begin to believe that the age of miracles
is not yet dead.” This prattler’s veiled adherence to
the charge of salting has been answered by expert
evidence that found hornblendic schist on the Oha -
finch after the prosecution had been taken, and
that identified that schist with the rich speci-
mens from the trench, and by the statement ot
Magistrate Roe, that no man could hear the evidence
and not be sure that the gold was present by any but
natural means. # *
Vivien (W.A.) lias given it up. Ore re-
serves petered out in December last, and as the co,
was not game enough to spend any more money, the
mine was shut down. Even tributors could not be
expected to work the show, so shareholders met in
London and decided to wind up. It is expected that
after the plant and other mine assets have been rea-
lised, and the proceeds lumped with the small amount
of cash in hand, the liquidator will be able to declare
a baby dividend.
Boulder No. 1 Co. (W.A.), through its
London secretary, denies that it is in need of further
working capital, and reckons that all the needful
funds can be got out of crushing?. Since the dis-
claimer was made, assays have dwindled somewhat;
and as there was barely enough cash in hand to make
things meet at the beginning of the year, the co. may
have to eat its words before Jong.
London, Australian and General Explora-
tion, Ltd., announces that the options on the co.’s
shares, expiring on June 30 next, have been extended
for another year, upon the condition that if at any
time after the first-named date the make-up price be
not less than 7s. 6d. for two consecutive accounts
on the London Stock Exchange, the options then
outstanding must be exercised on the terms stated
in the option Certificates within seven days of the
second settling day, or such options will be con-
sidered abandoned and at an end.
* * * *
Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), chirrups a lialf-
yearlv roundelay in good tone, and George Bryant
isn’t' afraid to say that, despite the last attack of
market indigestion, the patient has more than a
dead man’s chance. The mine hasn’t back-slid any.
When 3300 fathoms pan out 64730 z., the average re-
calls the best days of alluvial mining, and fills the
soul with hope as to what will happen when the Cen-
tral and the New Langi Logan get a hustle on. Away
down the lead the gutter is 200 ft. wide, instead of
the 120 ft. that it was expected to be. Off No. 4
north branch, where poor wash was said to be show-
ing in each face, good dirt has been opened on the
high ground. Its good quality is shown by 26
fathoms yielding 73%0z. Wonderful are the ins-
and-outs of deep-lead mining! Off the mam level,
too, things are looking better ; but here the trouble
ahead is the way the gutter is dipping towards the
level, bringing nearer than ever the necessity for
a No. 2 shaft. Up the lead the Heather Bell tribu-
tary seems to have shifted into the right horizon,
and a run of wash 100 ft. wide is proved. It is
patchv, but believed to be payable. The current
half-vear is being begun with 2177 fathoms opened
up, but at least half of that is green. _ As 3300
fathoms were treated last half-year, the mind is four
months ahead of the panelling line. This is a narrow
margin, but with George Bryant in command, to
weather storms, shareholders will sleep soundly.
The mine, so far, has eaten up £15,000 of contri-
buted capital, produced £116,953 of gold, and paid
£33,000 in divs.
Another Victorian deep lead show is out
with figures. This is the Duke and Main Leads,
Maryborough, which, since it started divs., hasn’t
had a break; £38,750 has gone to shareholders on
a paid-up capital of £01,458. Its gold output has
been £200,000. The big difference between it and
the Cathcart is that the Duke handles a big main
gutter at a deep level, while the Cathcart is min-
ing a tributary in comparatively shallow ground.
The first-named, too, has few slugs; the Cathcart has
many. The two claims can be contrasted: —
Costs per
Fathoms. Gold. Divs. Fathom.
Duke and M.L. .. 10,678 £24,878 £7,500 34/4
Cathcart.. .. 3,300 25,744 13,188 48/6
The average of the gold per fathom in the Mary-
borough mine was £2 6s. 4jd. ; costs were 345. 4d.,
and it was able to pay six divs. of 6d. each during
the half-year. Unfortunately the grade of its wash
has dropped to llidwt. To make profits on that
value means good mining; and it isn’t dead-easy,
because from the No. 9 rise to the No. 12 rise the
good wash is on the high ground, with the result
that it is lower in grade and narrower. In the
north end, from 900 ft. to 1000 ft. of work down the
lead has proved cementy and patchy wash. As the
mine is a big one, and has done so well, it is no
time for the Stinking Fish party to cry Out. _ More-
over, the leaders of the Board are not stock .Jobbers,
so with a good miner in charge the Duke still stands
as a Triton among the alluvial minnows of the State.
Mount Morgan (Q.) is gradually getting
its feed-floors at the. copper smelters into order. To
keep a grip on the fumes from the Many Peaks flux,
the feed-apertures have been closed in by pyramid-
shaped covers, 20ft. by 10ft. by 10ft. high. This
arrangement carries the sulphurous draught in to the
big flue before going up the stack. The trucks for
the automatic feeding scheme are now to hand; it
is expected that by this change the number of men
on the feed-floor will be reduced from 10 to two per
furnace. The other eight won’t complain much about
retiring from that portion of “the copper,” as it is
locally called. The stack at the Mundic works is
also to be overhauled, and improved by a scheme to
catch the flue dust. Until the installation is com-
pleted, the Mundic is not the purest breathing-space
in the country-side. A part of interest outside the
main works, on the slope of the rich hill, is the pre-
cipitation works or vats. In the old days, after the
chlorine had done its work on the roasted ore at
the Mundic works, the residue liquid went to the
river. Some few hands down the river made a good
living catching the copper by precipitation
on scrap-iron, as the copper trickled down the Dee in
solution. The co. presently built its own vats, and
made the money which the “catchers” used to make.
The precipitated copper is collected in brick-form,
about 70 p.c. pure, and, having been dried, is thrown
into the converters with the matte. In the March re-
turns, of the 494 tons copper, 68 tons were the re-
turns from these vats. Morganaires are thus enriched
by £lOO odd per day.
Many Teaks sent G 485 tons of basic flux
to Mt. Morgan during March, as against 3940 tons
during flooded February. The quarter's total was
16,578 tons treated for 1550 z. gold and 501 tons
copper. Value, £20,050 = a trifle over 245. a ton.
The resurrected Mount Leyshon, outside
of Charters Towers (Q.), has 20 stampers and some
eight evanide vats to catch the gold from the low-
o-rade stuff (The co. has no use for anything to
treat high-grade stuff.) The hill is quarried by
open cuts on the summit; and shoots have been
fixed down the side of the mountain to the crushers,
to which the ore gravitates. Though most work is
done in open cuts, two tunnels—one 200 ft. and the
other 60ft. —have also been put in. It is intended
to go into the hill on a level with the treatment
plant, and from this work up, as is done at Many
Peaks When the mine is in full swing 1000 tons
a week will be treated. In connection with the sur-
face plant, the old charcoal kilns have been dis-
carded, and the burning is done in tanks, which thus
supply clean fuel for the 120-h.p. suction gas-engine.
Leases totalling 169 acres have been taken
up in the Gladstone (Q.) district, in the names of
three boss employees of Mount Morgan. r b p se
areas include two large ironstone outcrops, which
are spoken of in mysterious whispers. A shall is
being sunk; but a diamond drill is to be used to
rush prospecting, and go deeply into the matter.
Meanwhile, those . outside . know nothing, and talk a
good deal. *
Geologist Dunstan (Q.) was called in to
diagnose the Mt. Shamrock, the shareholders agreeing
to abide bv his report as to whether it was worth
while going on. Back in 1889 3700 tons of stone
yielded £7 3s. a ton, and once, in 1896, a parcel
yielded £lB a ton. In 1900 the value got down to
j 2s. Bd. per ton, but the average was about £2 a
ton between 1902 and 1907. In 1907, 3580 tons
returned 325. Mining, milling, cyaniding and other
expenses ran from £1 10s. to £1 15s. a ton; but
Dunstan reckons that £1 ss. should easily covei
everything, if the mine is worked on an adequate
scale. The ore reserves are hopefully reported on,
so the co., in all probability, will take off its coat
again. # #
For a start the Ilampden-Cloncurry
(Q.) smelting works wall have a capacity of 120
tons per day; but if the first smelting campaign
shapes well, and the copper market holds together,
the plant will be duplicated. In view of this a
good deal of prospecting is going on near Hampden,
for it is understood that the co. will cater for a
ci stom trade. The Trikelana, a recent discovery,
will probably be taken over under option. The
Hampden made a hit by the purchase of the Duchess,
and the management, therefore, keeps its eyes open.
Mount Cuthbert, 70-odd miles from Clon-
eurry (Q.), has had a development at the 350 ft.
level. At the end of the south drive, at 273 ft„ the
face shows 7ft. of 12 p.c. ore, with more standing
on both sides. Overhead, at the 250 ft. level, there
was only 9in. of 8 p.c. ore. A development at
depth is just what was wanted to put heart into the
shareholders, w'ho have to face expensive development
work.
East Mexican, Charters Towers, is push-
ing on with development, but at the moment results
are not bright. The Mexican has always had a
hankering to prospect for another reef on the toot-
wan side of its main level, so a crosscut was run in
from No. 5 level, and at 43ft. this has cut 3m. of
stone in diorite, with a granite wall. No doubt
more prospecting will be done. For the first tew
feet No. 4 shows only lightly mineralised stone, but
is expected to improve. The crosscut at the 760 ft.
level is in hard diorite. Mexican’s chances, beyond
the next few months, are still very much of a
gamble. hast month’s return was 757 tons for
£4957, which has been followed by 411 tons for
£2o92—that’s for a fortnight. This will hardly
run to a regular sixpence per month. Still a No. 2
has just arrived, and others will certainly drop in.
“A call of Is. was made in December,
and it was confidently expected that this would be
the last money required from the shareholders. Stop-
pages from the causes referred to [floods, machinery
breakages, etc.] have resulted not only in a in-
duction of the output, but also increased expenses;
and it may be necessary to make another call of Is.
per share at an early date.” Thus the directors of
Stannary Hills (Q.). The property is a regular
Old Man of the Sea. About 27 times success has
just been within lassoing distance; and then it has
scampered off. Manager Stockdale, who came from
Broken Hill Junction, says: “We have not been
able to crush one-half the hard ore that has been
available, on account of its extreme hardness. The
ore seems to get harder as it goes down.” Still,
though that means more expense —“I am confident
the scheme will work successfully.” *
Queensland Exploration Co. is unhappy.
It thinks it had better die, but so far there seems
to be a difficulty about getting enough shareholders
together to authorise the suicide. The responsi-
bility will probably be thrown on to the London
directors. # # #
Briseis (Tas.) did not do badly during
1910. With the New Brothers Home No. 1 tribute
sluiced out of the race, and with only the tail-end of
Langford’s original Briseis float to be dealt with,
profits of £41,000 were netted. The way things
have gone is shown by the smaller yield. That for
1910 from the Briseis and No. 1 mines was 684
tons tin, against 1102 tons for 1910. Fortunately
tin stands at a high figure. Now the Briseis is
punching out the Krushka flat, whence prospects are
sufficiently good to swell the chest of the general
manager. #
North Mount Lyell reserves figure at
over 900,000 tons, and are quite likely to be added
to for the northern section of the 1100 ft. is develop-
ing a fine lens of ore, going strongly underfoot
Lyell reports that it is suffering from a shortage of
labor. “Very well,” say the men; then put up
the wages \ you are evidently not offering enough.
Ivulamadau, Woodlark Island. I >a P'fa-
made a profit of £1441 from its crushing of 1240
tons. This stone gave 7220/„ gold and 30 tons of
concentrates, while the cyaniding of 900 tons of
tailings produced 52ioz. For the previous six weeks
the profit was £1650; but it must be remembered
that the co. is spending much money on plant, etc.
A new boiler has been shipped, and the third Hunt-
ingdon mill will soon be placed in commission.
Costs are about 325. per ton, which is less than
Charters Towers can show. #
From George Blakemore, formerly general
manager of the Great Cobar, now spending some time
rCalifornia: “If the Roma (Q.) gas bore can get
the gas again, there is hope for it as a gasoline
producer. It has been discovered by an experi-
menter working for the lloncduUi Consolidated 01
Co., whose wells are in the Buena Vista Hills, Cali-
fornia, that by compressing natural gas to 4001 b.
per square inch, each 1000 cubic feet of gas, at
atmospheric pressure, will yield two gallons (Ameri-
can) of gasoline of 0.800 gravity. Some natural
gases yield more than this, whilst others are not
profitable to treat. Ordinarily, 20 cubic feet of gas
f s equal to lib. of crude oil for heating power.
Gas is sold for sd. to 17d. per 1000 cubic feet in
different parts of America, according to quantity
consumed. Through California, practically no use
is made of the vast quantities of pouring out
of the thousands of wells in action. In the Buena
Hills district a well produces from 12 000,000 to
50 000,000 cubic feet of gas daily, and there are
many wells, so that the wasted fuel and horse-power
runs into figures that would make Niagara Falls
look puny as a power-producer alongside. And this is
the gas waste of only a small section of the oil dis-
tricts of California. The oil produce of California
for 1908 was over 1,500,000,000 gallons (English),
and for 1911 it will be over 2,000,000,000 gallons.
The air smells of oil. Its use on hundreds of miles
of roads produces a dustless track with a glistening
rubber-like surface. But the construction of the
road in the first place has to be done m the right
wav; it is no use pouring oil on to the macada-
mised roads of Sydney and expecting results. These
California roads which are dressed with oil abso-
lutely beat anything in the way of a road there is
in the whole of Australia, for such traffic as motor-
cars and light vehicles. For the parks ami drives
about a city they are incomparable. Constructed
with good rock foundations they would be suitable
for heavy traffic. The ‘crude’ sells at 40 cents per
35 English gallons on the oil fields.”
Syd S.: No doubt some Anglo-Australian
cos. transfer from the London to the Australian
register; but others —including at least one big
bank —certainly refuse now to do so, though the
refusal means a considerable loss in exchange.
As a result of an inspection of the new
Porcupine goldfield in Canada, 8., M. and Co. have
opened up a branch-office in Montreal, and have sent
Gerald Lovell, formerly of the Gt. Fingall and Gt. •
Fitzrov, and lately in charge of Burmah Mines, Ltd.,
to look after # #
Word comes from Jewburg that no altera-
tion is to be made in the existing practice of
Sunday ore treatment on the Rand. On the point of
taxing profits, however, the Union Parliament has
decreed that the sum expended on excess develop-
ment, which has hitherto been added to current
working costs before calculating taxable profits, must
not be so included in the future.
* f * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, . the agents in New
Zealand.* _
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell's Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. 11. Lamond & Co., 328 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern, shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles., has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* H
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort in
Summer, obtained by building with “Fibro Cement
Asbestos slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceil-
ings. Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being-
durable, fire, acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos.,
testimonials from Sole Importers, James Hardie Co.
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and 581-583 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.* I*
* * * *
Extract from the Saturday Review, Jan. 7, 1911.
—“lnsurance: A Colonial Mutual Departure Policies,
combining life or endowment assurance with othei
benefits, °are gradually coming into favor. Then-
popularity seems to be justified. Why should one
be compelled to take out two or more policies when
several risks can just as easily be covered under a
single contract? It was a consideration of this kind
that some short time ago impelled the Board of The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society to introduce
in Australasia a combined Life, Accident and Sick-
ness policy, and as the experiment was attended by
a most welcome increase in New Business, it was
recently decided to extend the issue to the United
Kingdom. There were evidently sound reasons for
the departure. Neither life nor endowment assur-
ance policies afford quite the full protection needed
by most persons, because no provision is made for
accidents or sickness that do not end fatally. . . .
Regarded as a whole, this new policy possesses many
attractions. It is decidedly cheap, and will appeal to
those who canot afford to disburse large sums yearly
in the form of insurance premiums.”*
Where acids and minerals are potent in soil or
water, there can be no question that WOOD PIPE is
the most satisfactory pipe to instal. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send
catalogue on application.*
Mine Managers and Engineers. —Send vour orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese- and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. * Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ;
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* I-
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Sales-
man.)* * * *
Nobel's Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil,
ease of starting, no complicated arrangement of
valves, and automatic lubrication, apd these are testi-
fied to bv Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 25-
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* # U
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert. Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining-
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
"■rain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*


ant t 0 HJM - Ki 0
&
Oe,
Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
v Ft
& %
II:
f WEST EXTRA Q?
“THE SACRED OlLS.”—Absolutely the
only remedy guaranteed to remove lines and
wrinkles, cure faded complexions, and tone
up relaxed facial muscles. This secret com-
pound has been handed down from generation
to generation, until it has become the sole
property of the Nuns of Yaldajov, Servia.
“The Sacred Oils” possess a remarkable
power in removing those signs of age which
most women dread. No woman need have
lines, crowsfeet, or loose, baggy skin, now
that “The Sacred Oils” is obtainable in Aus-
tralia. Write to Westall Guest, Toilet
Specialist, 38 Chapel-street, Windsor, Vic.
Advice and pamphlets free. Price, ss. bottle ;
post, ss. 6d.*
• /
O\\o
o
<4
o
Come quietly!
and let me tell you a few
things about tea. When you
are cold it warms you, and
when you are hot it cools
you; if you are thirsty it
quenches your thirst, and if
you are not thirsty, well, then
it’s a nice enough drink to take
every time you get a chance.
I’m satisfied of one thing, if
people didn’t drink anything
stronger than Robur tea, we
wouldn’t have to run so many
people in.
My advice to you is, drink
tea —Robur No. i Grade tea —•
get it fresli and drink it
always, and if you never
take any-
thing else
you’ll never
come to any
harm.
The Policeman
df
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 24, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
Governor Chelmsford’s evening party at
State Government House was, in its own
way, the notable innovation of race week.
It broke away from the modern dance, and
avoided the besetting sins of some former
Keepers of vice-regal ceremonies. Sydney
Society will suffer much; but it fiercely re-
sents, behind its yawns, the type of Govern-
ment-house diversion which sits it in a chair
and fills it up with a two-hour course of dull
music. The brighter entertainment of last
week gave every excuse to young perambu-
lating parties of two to wander out on lan-
tern-lit lawns.
The State Cabinet Minister stood out like
a lighthouse in a frothy atmosphere of chif-
fons. Mr. Carmichael and Mr. Holman towered
conspicuously above some of the under-sized
youths of the gilded-butterfly species who
were present at the Governor’s soirde. Mrs.
Holman and Mrs. Carmichael are also above
the average height. Mrs. Trefld, another
fine figure of a woman, more than passing
tall, has the audacity to clothe herself ii
good taste. The Melbourne Age will have
to talk severely to Mrs. Trefie, who forgot
the color of her politics, and omitted to go t •
Government House in a sugar bag, with
bomb-shell trimmings.
The new wing of Rose Bay's vice-regal
halls includes the long, brilliantly-lit room
m which the great foregathering took place.
It s a handsome enough place, with white
or very light-colored walls. No one, so far
as I know, has. ever given a party inside the
plaster of Paris scrolls of a wedding cake,
otherwise this annex might be the circum-
stance. The white blaze of incandescent
light on the white-face make-up, which is
this season’s craze, was coldly cruel. Hard
lines round selfish, worldly mouths, and the
ghastly effect of complexions buried in a
deadly-looking paste, showed up in sharp re-
lief.
With the Burdekin group at the evening
party was the handsome young woman who
left Sydney as Miss Irene Marks, and some
time afterwards honeymooned in foreign
parts as Mrs. George Vivers. She is a
good deal thinner, and wore one of the ap-
parently simple affairs —a yellowish-colored
drape—which the inexperienced male expects
his wife to double (at the little shop round
the corner) for a pound or two. Women
know better. Doucet, Paquin or such, gen-
erally sign their names on tags inside the
waist lines of these cunningly-designed de-
ceptions.
Governor Chelmsford had Lady Dudley,
the Duchess of Bedford, and Lady Beatrice
Kerr-Clark as blue-ribbon Beerage entries at
his evening party. •To work this “Who’s
Who” problem out to a correct answer, his
lux. must have made three descents on the
supper table. He Took Lady Beatrice, a
very pretty Irish girl, on his arm, during
one of these raids on the more serious re-
freshments reserved for superior persons.
When our old acquaintance, Robertson K.
Clark, was looking for a wife, he made a
peaceful invasion into the family circle of
the Earl of Drogheda, Co. Kildare. Their
personal name is Moore, and Henry Charles,
the present owner of the perquisites, is ac-
cused of being the tenth coronet. If he
wishes to worship in Cold Land and Chinese
fashion at the tombs of his ancestors, he has
only to motor from London to Kent. Soon
after Norman William dragged Matilda along
the ground by the hair of her head, as a
mark of his personal esteem, the Moore
family left France for England. Benenden,
in Kent, was their first choice in British
acreage. Sir Edward Moore, a later-day
member of the Benenden branch, had the
temerity, in Elizabeth’s time, to mix himself
up in the Irish question. He snared the
Drogheda. title for doing some meddesome
nut-cracking in the subsequent wars. Hasn’t
Lady Beatrice got a long tail—quite the
longest present at the Easter dress parade!
But, besides the tail, she has' an Irish man-
ner made of the softest fur.
Lady Dudley’s ropes of pearls, and the dia-
mond display of the Elect shouted Money.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly glittered all over with
shivery-looking giit scales, that covered an
understudy in russet brown. Miss Rose
Scott seized the opportunity and the
man of mark, and incited a Cabinet
Minister to dodge her belligerent questions as
to the . blessed results of fighting machine
guns with Peace Society’s pamphlets.. Things
we talk about at entertainments of this kind
also included a discourse on the ethics of
hanging. Cohens, Isaacs, etc., were distinctly
present Mrs. (Justice) Cohen’s bi-plane black
silk bows, sticking fiercely out from her head,
were one of the harmless recreations of the
evening.
Wearers of short, tight frocks slowly
wormed their way across the saddling pad-
dock at Saturday’s last gasp of Easter rac-
ing. Society’s large flat feet were in a
considerable majority. The eelskin drape
that works its way up the shin bone in hur-
ried moments, accentuates the size of the
best shoes, and throws the large foot into
wicked prominence.
Male inhabitants of the grandstand’s
brass-bound pews that are dedicated by the
A J.C. to Governors, Admirals, and globe-
trotting coronets, deserted the stove-pipe hat
on Saturday for indeterminate millinery.
The tall Buchanan bride, sitting with Lady
Dudley, had her Seaforth Highlander in at-
tendance. Having pictured a Scottish war-
rior of this, traditional ferocity as a person
with gigantic shoulders and infuriated scar-
let whiskers, decorated with bagpipes, the
tame appearance of Captain Buchanan came
as a shock, and gave the lie direct to colored
illustrations in English papers. A mouse-
colored suit, a soft hat of uncertain pedi-
gree, and a facial ornament consisting of a
pale ale-colored moustache, with no spiked
ends, don’t belong to the showy style of mas-
culine beauty that captures the public imag-
ination.
Mrs. Buchanan’s bright blue and black
gown (chiefly blue) had a great bunch of
scarlet flowers in the waist-belt. A big
hat and a pair of dark black eyes that
looked through a wriggly-spidery, creepy
pattern of heavy black veiling, com-
pleted the picture. A nip in the air incited
the owners of high-priced pelts to give them
a lawn parade. Mrs. John Toohey, in black,
wore a handsome wide fur stole that aggra-
vated various persons to break the unwrit-
ten commandment, “Thou shalt not tear the
clothes off thy wealthy neighbor’s back.” A
slim young woman, in a speckled get-up,
witn tiny dots all over her dress, was
wrapped to the nose in huge stone-marten
furs, and looked as if she’d come down from
Kosciusko in a blizzard. Ninon and other
gossamer species of feminine fancy-apparel
continued to veil soft satin robes of divers
colors. Mrs. Burdekin’s gown, with a sus-
picion of some alluring shade in yellow,
showing under transparencies of raven black,
was one of the sartorial episodes of the meet-
ing. Dame Simpson’s hat, which was large
and black, was one of the new season at-
tempts to garnish the outside of the brim
with a .flat layer of white lace —reminiscent
of a child’s idea of trimming dolls’ hats.
The members’ stand, which is now cut
off from the lawn by a low picket fence, will
only keep the unsophisticated off the sacred
grass. When the keeper of the gate turns
his head —oh, well, you may just look over
at the pure merinos in the new yarding pen.
The Union Club Ball was successfully
soaked in champagne. An informative
friend tells me that the Town Hall basement,
after the event, looked as if it had been bom-
barded with corks.
The most unusual feature of the Union
Club ball consisted in the fact that the Town
Hall floor was capable of being danced on.
Ordinarily this floor is the grimiest and
stickiest in the metropolis. On Friday
night it gleamed like a newly-polished boot,
and no one’s skirts were blackened; it was
more or less slippery, and no one was un-
necessarily fatigued. But at the best it
is dreadful. Why Sydney’s two big clubs
don’t combine to : sink the profits of a
couple of. these functions in an adjust-
able . dancing. floor —an article with some
resilience in it, and which is not for ever
having concert-room chairs pushed over its
surface —is one of life’s little mysteries.
The Admirable King-Halls have a young
daughter of the teeny-flapper age who is
seriously addicted to music. She is already
continuing the classic pursuit of chromatic
chords and other musical gymnastics, under
a Sydney teacher.
Concerning the Admirable himself, a wail
of minor woe is reported from the junior
sprigs of the service. A usually-truthful
friend may have suddenly broken out into
the checkered career of a cheerful liar, but
anyhow this is his plain tale of a top-hat.
Says he: “The Admirable has jumped with
both feet on the sac suit and bowler hat for
race meetings. He insists on the dignity
of the Navy being presented to the Randwick
bookie in a frock coat, pepper and salt et-
and silk hat.” In spite of this
alleged ukase, I saw one or two naval men
last Saturday, who were garbed in well-worn
sac suits and straw boaters.
Lord Denman, whose most riotous pro-
ceedings in private life are said to be limited
to an unshaken affection for golf, billiards
ana hunting, brings in his train the Viscount
Bury, who married Sydney Myee, an Austra-
lian-born daughter of one-time Governor Car-
rington. The Carringtons and Rawsons
have had no rivals in their grip of the local
hand. Their dogged determination to lay
foundation-stones, open bazaars, and swal-
low interminable doses of illuminated wel-
comes was combined with a staying power
in shaking hands that has extinguished com-
petition.
Rachel .Toy, the Philip Mortons’ new baby,
escaped alive from a gorgeous christening
party. The Duchess of Bedford and other titles
shed the light of their countenances on the
small bundle of lace and muslin which has
created such a stir in Society during the past
few weeks. With Lady Dudley as a godmother,
Rachel Joy can cut her teeth on diamond
ornaments, or play up about her dietary, and
who shall dare to smack her? Mrs. Morton
made a triumphant progress through the re-
cent junketings, and is said to have alluded
to the baby considerably more than twice.
The ordinary man, who can’t be leg-roped to
a christening—unless he be parent or par-
son—is said to feel aghast at the list of
well-known men-about-town who meekly
swallowed tea in the vicinity of anything so
young and unexpected as Rachel Joy. “You
never know what they’re up to, when they’re
as small as that,” said one male ornament
who allowed himself to be captured for the
Morton Joyful party. “Personally I prefer
’em when they can answer back, and don’t
dribble on their chins.”
The Philip Mortons have decided to post-
pone their trip to England, though their
berths on the Mooltan and their London
rooms were already booked. It was feared
that the Red Sea, which is terrifically hot
at this time of the year, might prejudicially
affect the new baby.
As I write, a garden party is careering
round fancy cakes under the auspices of
Chief Justice and Dame Cullen. The
lawyer Cullens are quiet folks, who’d rather
exchange rose - cuttings than small-talk. The
garden of their Mosman home has been an
acute hobby. Unlike most amateurs in
flowers, weeds, etc., Knight Cullen is liable
to give away his best blooms. He’s also been
known to part, without any apparent pang,
with beloved cuttings of sacred scarlet ger-
aniums. A trait worth noting, for the gar-
dener is often the most selfish monopolist
who ever cornered the seeds of the soil.
When this reaches you. Lady Dudley will
have opened the Girls’ Realm Exhibition in
the Town Hall. If no complications prevail,
the Admirable King-Hall will also have sec-
onded, or otherwise officially ear-marked, a
serious resolution of thanksgiving to her
rather weary-looking Ex.
Dr. Julie Carlile Fox, of the Sydney
Medical Mission, has been impounded by
Miss Grace Burrows, the organising sec. of
the Exhibition, to go through a splint and
pill drill. Several scores of persons are
so eager to be half-soled and heeled that
they’re going to present their mild, non-
catching afflictions as subjects of Medical
Mission work. A squad of High School
girls has been trained to show how
simple a thing it is to put a patch on suf-
fering humanity. Mrs. Greig-Smith intends
to be officially responsible for a demonstra-
tion in Norland babies. This can be re-
commended to the curious as an exhilarating
bath-tub “tabloid.” Every aftei-noon, from
2.30 to 3 p.m., the Noi’land nurses will
show the untrained spectator how to wash
up a small non-fighting baby in a bath-tub
and recoi'd time.
Miss Edith Horrocks, a Sydney girl who
works at architectural and constructional
drawing for a local Building Society, is
going to “demonstrate” at the Girls’ Exhi-
bition. How to build a cottage that ivon't
crack its sides, and will have a pantry large
enough to accommodate more than the next-
door cat, ought to be woman’s part in the
modern building boom. Looking over some
plans the other day, I was confounded by
the masculine architect’s idea of a “comfort-
able” cottage. No bathroom, no pantry, no
shelves or cupboards, and a kitchen big
enough to hold a stove, a dresser, and an
undersized woman, if she stood still in one
place—this is the oi’dinary man’s notion of a
home of rest for weary workers.
From the menu of the N.S.W. Chamber of
Manufacturers’ luncheon last week, I pick,
with an inquiring pen, “Warrego Wobbler”
and “Waratah Charlotte Australian.” Vari-
ous Charlottes I have known. Werther’s
Charlotte went on cutting bread and butter.
Apple Charlotte is dressed up with bread-
crumb trimmings. But Waratah Charlotte
as best-girl on the menu card to “Wattle
Blossom Trifle,” remains one of the minor
mysteries of Australian Manufacturers’
, week.
Court etiquette has left to it some queer
fringes of primitive rag-and-bone ceremonies.
According to a Cold Land scribe, Lord Rich-
ard Nevill’s father, the venerable Marquis of
Abergavenny, is entitled to pick up and
pocket—or carry away in any sack or suit-
case he prefers—all eatables left on the
royal table at Coronation banquets. On
these festive occasions Lord Richard’s parent
has to support the title of Chief Officer of
the Lai’der.
According to the cables, Ola Humphreys
has been married to Prince Ibrahim Hassan,
a cousin of Egypt’s Khedive. She is
one of the two or three European women
who have entered the Khedivial circle with
a wedding ring. Some years ago an infuri-
ated opposition greeted the marriage of a
French banker’s daughter with another
cousin of the Khedive, who seems to have
escaped from the “Arabian Nights” with the
name Prince Ali Fazil. If Ola, with her
charm of manner, follows the diplomatic
footsteps of Princess Fazil, she’s likely to
conquer the early Egyptian prejudices of her
Moslem relatives-in-law. Khedive Abbas
Hilmi is reported to be a good-looking, civi-
lised specimen of his race, with a dimple in
his chin, and a taste for model farming and
railway building. He will, if nicely spoken
to, and frequently fed with the title “High-
ness,” discoui-se with foreign visitors in
Cairo, on onions, Jersey cows, and harem
skirts.
Dr. Coward, a gleeful member of the Shef-
field Choir, is a musical widower with three
good-looking daughters, who warble in the
chorus. Mr. Shaw, of this city, has applied
for the position of host to Cowai’d pere.
George Washington’s successor, who gave me
this news, has not added a postscript.
Whether the singing daughters are included
in the Shaw hospitality is therefore left
an open question.
Dr. Charles Harriss admits that, though
the Sheffield “sol fa” combination is not out
for loot, it has a human desire to add finan-
cial success to its meteoric career across the
globe. So far this desire has been gratified.
Writing from Ottawa to a friend in Sydney
he says: “The demand for seats has been
enoiunous here. In Toronto I was so busy
that I was seldom out of my office... We
are going to do Berlioz’s ‘Faust’ in Mel-
bourne... The Canadians are trying to kill
us with kindness.” Rose-tinted optimism,
with an aftermath of wet towels worn round
Sheffield Choir heads, apparently pursues the
songsters across Canada’s frost-bitten cities.
Mr. W. C. Somers is habitually agent in
Auckland (M.L.) for the P. and O. Co. dur-
ing those sombre hours in which Man offi-
cially glues his thoughts to a roll-top desk.
There appear to be some compensations!
Mr. Somers, who looked in at Randwick’s
festival, is a steward of the Auckland
Metrop. Racing Club in his more frivolous
moments. He took with him, by Morea to
Melbourne, excess luggage in the shape of a
charming wife.
Miss Molly Lloyd, one of last week’s
debutantes, is a daughter of the late and
handsome “Lance” Lloyd, whose genial man-
ners as official assignee were said to cast an
agreeable glamor over the chilly task of
hauling bankrupts over the glaciers. Molly’s
maternal grandfather, the late Solicitor-
General Williams, was once counted amongst
the rough-and-tough exponents of legal
learning in this city.
The father of Australian artist Arthur
Streeton was in Sydney recently. He is a
hale veteran of SO, who long ago retired from
the Victorian Civil Service on pension, and
recently returned from a visit to England.
He talks enthusiastically of his son’s suc-
cess, and of the talent and graces of his
wife, Nora Clench, the Irish violinist.
Dr. Alan Carroll, who died last week, did
splendid work in connection with the Child
Study Association. He was an old man
with a young imagination. His persistent
plea for the rational up-bringing of tender
youth, and his ardent belief that a sound
body contained a sound mind, made him an
enthusiast in the modern cult of helping the
child to develop the calves of its legs as well
as the twists of its grey matter.
The personally-conducted tour, as con-
nected with the overseas traveller who wants
to give his immediate attention to Australian
scenery, is comparatively new. Among the
pioneer stampedes of wealthy Americans,
stage-managed by their own agent, will be
the noble nine who arrive here on Friday.
Since December they’ve hunted the Maori-
land geyser in its pumice-stone lair, and
scratched the ice off Joseph Ward’s most
remunerative glaciers! They’ve taken their
time, and spent wallets of gold coin in the
pursuit of blue lakes and mud volcanoes. Now
they’re going to sample N.S.W. With the
party comes Captain Akin Higgins, as the
official representative of the TJ.S.A. tourist
agency of Itaymond and Whitcomb. He
“fixes” up his party with the skill of long
usage, and is going to loom large across the
snow-shod heights of Kosciusko, in conspir-
acy with Percy Hunter’s Intelligence De-
partment.
Mr. and Lady Beatrice Kerr Clark
left for Adelaide and the Coronation on
Sunday night. He talks of returning here
to settle down later on.
The Ernest Brookes —she is a daughter of
.Tames Burns, M.L.C., and he a well-known
Melbourne identity—are at Cromer flats.
Later Mr. Brookes will return to Melbourne
and business, and his wife will go to Gowan
Brae, the parental home near Parramatta.
The Jim Osbornes are also settled in
Cromer, after a strenuous spell of house
hunting. They have hired two flats, to ac-
commodate their various belongings and
guests.
Yours, with a broad nib.
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Vice-Regal
sdf
Jewellers,
PRESENTATION PLATE.
WEDDING PRESENTS. BIRTHDAY GIFTS.
©
20
m
m
Cl
HANDSOME SILVER-PLATED SPIRIT FRAIVJE,
with Three Richly-Cut Quart Bottles,
=6lO.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
Showrooms:
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Address: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS, E.C.
Half a Million Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall Series” of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price 1/- Each. Post Free, 1/3.
THE DASHWOODS.
By STEELE RUDD. With 15 full-page illustrations by CLAUDE MARQUET.
Price i/- Postage 3d.
When the Dashwoods visit the city the fun begins, for Old John and Young Peter seem
incapable of keeping out of mischief, and manage somehow to entangle the whole family in
their ludicrous escapades, until Mother and the girls begin to long for home. For pure merri-
ment and good humor the author has never written anything better than “The Dashwoods,”
which is sure to prove a favorite.
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer.
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD. With four half-tone illustra-
tions by PERCY F. SPENCE. Price 1/- Postage 3d.
The mining expert who is sent out by the syndicate to see if
the mine under offer is “salted” or otherwise, lias often to pit
his wits against the low cunning of underground engineers, and
is not always successful.
Pie must be as observant as Sherlock Holmes, as wary as a
tiger and as brave as a lion, for, when baulked, the vendors are
apt to become dangerous.
Mr. Bedford has intimate knowledge of the things whereof
he writes and the power to depict situations and sketch character
in a most masterly manner.
The cases cited here are both thrilling and amusing.
sd
EROS I
EROS WIN
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
A new Racing Novel by F. AGAR. Illustrated by PERCY
SPENCER. Paper Cover, 1/- Postage 3d.
“Eros,” be it known, was the Greelc god of love, and, as
love generally wins, it was thought a good name for a horse.
But even a good horse is not always allowed to win, and many
of the doubtful methods of preventing him are exposed in this
book. Both the upper and under sides of “The Turf” are
depicted here—the aristocratic, straight going owner, and the
low-down swindler who lives on the game ; but the little Greek
god has also an interesting innings, as there is a fascinating society
love-story running side by side with the racing yarn, and the
outcome of the plot and counter-plot is that again “ Eros” wins.
To those who don’t know much about racing, this book will
be an eye-opener; to those who do, it will be a treat.
Bookstall Reciters.
“How McDougall Topped the Score,” by Thos. E. Spencer. This series of recitations
is beyond question the most popular collection that has yet appeared in Australia.
“ Why Doherty Died,” by Thos. E. Spencer. This book ripples with closer menimtnt all
the way through.
The Bulletin Reciter. This volume contains the cream of the recitations that have
appeared in the columns of The Bulletin for the past tw’enty years.
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 476 George St., Sydney.
And all
Branches and
Booksellers.
“Not a Dull Day Since the STECK
PIANOLA PIANO came into our Home.”
«1
ria>
©
N
The Charm of the Pianola Piano.
r I ''HE pleasure obtained from the STECK PIANOLA PIANO is twofold.
First, there is the enjoyment of the music itself—the great master-
pieces when you are in the mood for them, and the catchy “hits”
and comic-opera selections when you want something lively.
Second, there is the fascination of producing the music yourself. That
is something that you have to experience personally in order to appreciate.
Unite both forms of entertainment, and you have a combination that
is irresistible.
An Invitation to Call.
It is well worth a little of anyone’s time to find out exactly what the
STECK PIANOLA PIANO is, and how much it adds to the home life.
Do not let any preconceived ideas of the instrument debar you from in-
vestigating it. Call with a list of your favorite selections. Listen to them
critically, note the human-like effect, and then, if you will, play them for
yourself. See how sensitive the instrument is, how responsive to the
slightest turn of expression.
Vital Improvements.
OU cannot possibly judge the STECK PIANOLA PIANO unless you
have familiarised yourself with the latest developments. There is
1 the METROSTYLE, insuring an artistic interpretation—the
THEMODIST, bringing out the theme or melody—the Graduated Accom-
paniment, and other features wholly wanting in the many imitations. Re-
member that you are not investigating the PIANOLA PIANO when you
look at some of the so-called “ Player-Pianos ” that are prevented by patent
from utilising vital improvements.
The Steinway Pianola Piano.
A cordial invitation is extended to every owner of a Steinway Piano,
and to every admirer of this celebrated instrument, to inspect the latest
achievement, the Stein way with the PIANOLA built into it. The Pianola
Company control the sale of the Steinway PIANOLA Piano for the entire
world.
Let us send you a Catalogue of the Pianola Piano. We will send it
free if you will write us. Ask for Catalogue C.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY, J 57 Georje Street, Sydney
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.


During the Easter Encampment our noble
defence forces fought, although they did not bleed,
for their country with immense fortitude and
enthusiasm. Especiall}' when inspired to their
most heroic deeds by D.O.L. Wisdom. The
soldierly qualities of the men shone resplendent
when led by officers mentally illuminated by that
arc lamp of wisdom, D.0.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
A MISTAKEN NOTION.
There is a prevailing; opinion that it is danger-
ous to stop diarrhoea, too suddenly. That tnay be
the ease when an astringent medicine is used, but
there is not the least danger of stopping it too
quickly when Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy is taken, as it is not an astring-
ent, and stops the diarrhoea by curing the disease
that caused it. As a rule, only-two or three doses
are required, but in very severe cases a whole
bottle is sometime needed.*
m
58*
IV
(elebratejj
W
om
“Why We Win!”
“ Merit alone lasts—subterfuge and false
worth may linger along—may obtain some
success—but the Inevitable crash is only
the greater. Merit has, and always will
win out. The famous French
Royal
‘P.D.’
Rustless Corsets
throughout the whole world of Fashion in
Europe, America, Australia (and where*
ever civilisation has made its way) are the
Corsets that appeal to my sisters—because
we are so exquisitely modelled, so beauti-
fully designed, and made of such fine
materials that we win our way into the
affections of all womankind by True Merit
and Worth.
“Yours sincerely,
“A Royal ‘P.D.’ Model.’’
“ None Genuine without Trade Mark.”
TRADE
tT
MARK.
HAYWARD’S
Costumes S Riding Habits
arc Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling’s.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 24, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
I am sure that Cupid has sold his bow and
bought a Maxim to shoot off his arrows with. In
Geelong, just recently, no less than 40 people
were tied in pairs, for better or much worse, in
one day. Fortunately the township that isn’t so
sleepy had sufficient churches to cope with the
rush of business. Nevertheless the city was dis-
organised for the day, and ran wild with white
satin bows, old slippers and a blizzard of confetti.
Melbourne received several of the honeymooners.
These happy days railway porters can’t wheel a
loaded truck five yards without endangering the
toes of a beaming pair or disturbing a chattering
group of pale blue or mauve-colored bridesmaids.
Top hats and frock coats are no longer unused
extravagances; they scarcely spend two days
together among tissue paper and moth halls.
Mabel Emmerton, lawyer Emmerton’s girl, said
“ I will ” in duet with tennis-champion Norman
Brookes in St. Paul’s Cathedral on Wednesday
afternoon. The chimes fought with the traffic
sounds for supremacy for half an hour before the
arrival of the bride, and resumed again for another
half an hour on her departure. Guests armed
with silver-and-white cards had to elbow their
way through a crowd which blocked the station
corner and surged round the railings and police-
men. Every Sassiety maiden in Melbourne
arrived in her smartest frock, and bridesmaids
from earlier weddings of the season found points
of vantage from which to observe the effect of
Mabel Emmerton’s group of six.
The bunch of bridesmaids was like a mammoth
bouquet of hydrangea. The pale satin of their
trailing gowns was hydrangea blue under transpa-
rent tunicsof pink. Nymph-like pink rose-wreaths
perched on their modern coiffures, and they
carried wired bouquets of the delicate-tinted
bloom. They did not match so well as regards
height. Big blonde Esther Fairbairn, of the
woolly family, towered over Dodo Staughton on
one side; and Vera Clarke, daughter of the
departed Janet, made' her look small on the
other. Nancy Grice, who is happier on her hunter
than afoot anywhere, was maid-in-chief. Vera
Madden, the drooping artist c daughter of the
Frank Maddens, and May Brookes, a sister of
bridegroom Norman, completed the sextette. Two
small children, dressed in cavalier style, gave a
Christmas-supplement effect as train-bearers. One
of them was the Pursey Chirnsides’ small son
Andrew, and the other Joan Richmond, the
Staughton granddaughter. Other helpers were
Archbishop Clarke, in scarlet array, and the Rev.
Evelyn Snodgrass, who defied the rules of arith-
rnetic and made two one. Flowers are not allowed
in the Cathedral as decorations ; but the altar was
heaped with white roses. The strip of scarlet
carpet leading right up to this dazzling whiteness
made a vivid theatrical contrast.
The reception flurry was at Raveloo, Toorak,
and thither the guests petrolled after the ceremony.
Governor Carmichael and his lady presented the
pair with a lovely blue enamelled jar, which had
centre place among a display calculated to make
any burglar’s mouth water. The bridegroom’s
gifts to the bridesmaids were gold chain bags
studded with pearls and turquoises. To his bride
he gave diamonds. The tennis racquet was
everywhere in the decorations. There were even
tennis racquets on the carriage. The Emrr.ertons
carefully brought a cake with them from Fog-
land, in case no Australian baker could be found
in time. It also was covered with the sporty
implement.
The elaborately married lady got into a blue-
velvet coat and skirt after the breakfast, and
travelled off with her husband to Mornington for
the honeymoon. They have taken the Reggie
Clarkes’ house in Queen’s-road, and will live
there on their return.
The guest list was the catalogue of the old
noblesse, and the dresses were like a chiffon store’s
autumn show. Mrs. Brookes carried purple
orchids and violets to lighten the sombre effect of
her black and crepe. Mrs. Emmerton wore dull
blue velvet, with a black velvet plumed hat. Mrs.
Deakin, stately and tall in a mole-colored gown,
was accompanied by her daughter, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes. The Staughtons, the Fairbairns and
the Chirnsides occupied the special front seats.
While the Brookes-Ernmerton wedding was
filling St. Paul’s on Wednesday, St. Pat’s, on the
summit of Eastern Hill, was having its own
marrying. Bess Noonan, a St. Kilda girl, and
Aubert Loughnan, of the Coonamble (N.S.W.)
Loughnans, were the contracting parties. The
bride, in the softness of a white Liberty gown,
wore some fine old lace that had done duty at
Mrs. Loughnan’s orange blossoming. The brides-
maids, all of them sisters of the bride or bride-
groom, were garbed in blue. After the ceremony
the wedding party went over the wax to the
Grand, where the big drawing-room was smothered
in chrysanthemums and autumn foliage. Break-
fast—that movable feast in wedding phraseology
—contented the hungry in the supper-room. The
bride then enveloped herself in mole-colored
wrappings, and the honeymooners made for Syd-
ney. The newly-weds will live at Castelwellan
station, near Tragowel, in this State.
Melbourne Town Hall is housing an address of
farewell to the Carmichael lady wherein Mrs.
Climber and Mrs. Clomb may record their names.
The weighty work will be bound in one immense
flitch, and presented to the popular Governoress
while the vessel by which she goes is still taking
cargo, so that the load of signatures may be
properly stowed under hatches. Some of the
farewell presents are, however, really sensible.
A rug from the Ballarat looms and a comfortable
deck hat from the local mills are gifts that will
make the ocean traveller remember the donors
with gratitude.
The Eight Hours procession trailed trium-
phant! Melbourne on Monday morning ;
but it was afternoon before an ordinary citizen
could shoulder a way through the holiday crowd
which had gathered to view the serpent. The
Tramway Co. announced in the morning papers
that the obsolete cable arks would only be motion-
less “for half or three-quarters of an hour.” But
they had to sit down on the highways for a con-
siderably longer period, and the cataract of thrip-
pences almost went bone-dry. Helpless and
furious gripmen rang ineffectual bells; for you
can’t shift a multitude by ringing. The marching
squads were conspicuously loyal. Before round-
ing the turn from Bourke-street into Spring-street,
each band halted before the House and rolled
forth “ Gorsave,” while the workers respectfully
• bared their heads. I presume that the demonstra-
tion was arranged to reassure Bruce Smith and
other prominent revolutionaries.
The dames of the Alfred Hospital bazaar
ruffled their feathers on Eight Hours Day. The
demonstration was so huge this year that the
Eight Hours people required the whole of the
Exhibition space for their gala, so the Druids and
the bazaar had to turn out. The stalls had to be
taken down late on Saturday night, after the 10
o’clock closing, and there was still some clearing-
up left for Sunday. Sassiety dames and assorted
mayoresses, with the sweetest charity maids of the
town, worked hard to get their Old English
street put away in due order ; for on Tuesday it
all had to be pieced together again. The break-
up was not an altogether unmixed evil, though—
it gave the stall-holders the chance for a series of
furious bargain sales.
The members’ list of the Quamby Club for
women has grown faster than a Williamson bean-
stalk, and the first crop it bears is an ambition to
be residential. So it has bespoken quarters in
the new arcade that is to cut through from Collins-
street to Flinders-street, and will have rooms
built to suit itself on a Collins-street corner.
Miss Onions, the secretary of that useful little
institution, the City Newsboys’ Society, went
away last week for a holiday. The hoys gave her
several hearty farewells, and presented her with a
fountain pen with the attached condition that she
was to use it to write them a joint letter every
week. The Carmichael lady, who makes a hobby
of the City Newsboys and is their president, helped
in the friendly farewelling. Mrs. Guy Sherwood,
another enthusiast in the cause, handed over a
comfy outfit for the deck ; the Herald people
came along with a dressing-case; and other pre-
sents were showered into the cabin of this hard-
working and much-liked lady.
Alfred Billson, Victoria’s Minister for Rail-
ways, went breakfastless on his way by train from
Sydney to Melbourne one day last week; and
thereupon hangs a change which other railway
travellers will welcome. At Wangaratta he ordered
a hamper from the refreshment rooms; but the
rooms told him that hampers had been forbidden
by the General Superintendent. At Benalla the
Minister hungrily ordered another hamper; but
the refreshment rooms again pleaded that ham-
pers were off. So the Minister did not fracture
his fast until nearly noon. On arrival at Mel-
bourne he first of all tore some food, and then
ordered hampers “on” again. The thus-
exploded rule was the outcome of a complaint by
a refreshment room that its trade was being
injured by another refreshment room putting
hampers on the train. It lasted only while the
general public was pinched ; when it pinched the
boss cocky of the railways it was a different
matter altogether.
Our own Bessie Major has made an 18-carat
name for herself in London. She played with the
Asches here, and actor-manager Oscar and his
missus took her away to London with them. By
all accounts, her Dame Quickly was a masterpiece,
and threatens to be the standard by which future
Dames will be judged. The Brough players have
scattered far and wide. Mrs. Brough is with an
Allan Hamilton co. in Perth. Emma Temple is
with “ The Whip” people, and writes cynically :
“You’ll be pleased to hear I am wearing beauti-
ful gowns. ” Titheradge is giving his nerves a rest
in his Sydney garden. Meanwhile the drama
goes—to the horse and the bedroom.
Commander Victor Gurner, R.N., who became
a post-captain in December last, is another Aus-
tralian who is climbing well. He entered Father
Bull’s Navy as a cadet in 1883. was gazetted
lieutenant in 1892, and commander in 1904.
Gurner, who now controls H.M.S. Philomel, of
the East Indian Squadron, is a member of a St.
Kilda clan which runs considerably to law.
Artist Ted Colles has confessed to matrimony,
aided and abetted by Florence, the stately and
eldest of the four Levenberg girls. St. Kilda
. tried to modify its somewhat rapid surprise at the
lady’s absence with a what-did-I-tell-you-all-along
sort of air; nevertheless it once again had to
admit that artistic-literary folk always were a
trifle sudden.
Reginald Roberts has been suffering from influ-
enza and a “ throat.” Last week the theatre did
not see him for two performances: and he wa3
fighting for some days before he retired coughing
to his room.
The Alliance Eran<jaise asks its friends to a
soiree on April 26, one hour after Australia has
flung its last emphatip “Yes —Yes” into the
ballot box.
Mrs. Gay and Mrs. Aarons, two members of
the Alliance Frangaise, have had “the purple
ribbon,” known as Les Palmes, conferred upon
them for their organising work by the French
Minister of Public Instruction. The energetic
pair have been on the committee of the Alliance
for years.
Manager Miller, of West’s, with M*rs. Miller on
one arm and daughter Eily on the other, departs
by the Morea this week for a round-the-world
jaunt. The Miller daughters are clever girls.
Phyllis was recently sent off for a long holiday
by West’s, for whom she had been doing valuable
work. She returned the other day after rambling
abroad for 18 months. Molly, another girl of the
Miller household, spent many months in Manila
looking after her father’s interests, which hap-
pened to be iron-pipes or something else poetic.
On the canvas wings of the post comes the news
that George Allan, of the Block musical firm, has
established his two sisters in Paris while he is off
to Germany. Later on he is to conduct them to
the Coronation.
Miss Sweatman joins the artists who are show-
ing their wares in this city. An exhibition of
portraits and Warrandyte sketches will be opened
on Tuesday, May 2, at Alexandra Chambers.
Dalgety’s, with Captain Douglas hosting, are
giving a marine At Home on board the new
Aberdeen liner Themistocles on Thursday.
Special trains to Port Melbourne for the guests
will be one of the big firm’s hospitable extrava-
gances.
All the world knows that the bride who respects
Tradition wears a blue garter for luck. “Some-
thing old and something new, something bor-
rowed and something blue ” ; so runs the old saw
—and it cuts a deal of wedding cake. At a re-
cent marrying, the bridegroom made a bid for his
share of the luck by borrowing the other garter
rom his bride and clumping it on one of his sup-
ports.
A proclamation lately went forth from Customs
Minister Tudor prohibiting the export of the
following birds: —
Emus, terns and gulls ; egrets, herons and bitterns ;
lorikeets, cockatoos, parrots, dollar or roller birds, king-
fishers, bee-eaters, cuckoos, lyre birds, pittas, robins,
ground thrushes and chats, wrens ; shrike tits, thick-
heads, and shrike robins; sun birds, bower birds,
rifle birds, grebes, albatrosses, finches, orioles, shining
starlings.
In the same way the importation of the following
is prohibited :
The birds of paradise, the hummingbirds, the
any one of the several species of Asiatic pheasants of the'
genus Lophophorus, as the Impeyan pheasant; the
Argus, any one of the several species of Asiatic pheasants
of the genus Argusianus, as the Argus pleasant; the
crowned pigeon, any of the several species of large
crested pigeons of the genus Goura inhabiting New
Guinea and the adjacent islands ; the rheas, the owls,
the kingfishers, the macaws, any parrot of the genus
Sittace or Macrocereus, the stork tribe, the heron tribe,
the ibises and spoonbills, the todies, the cock of the rock,
the quezal, or resplendent trogon.
I am learning the list off by heart, to recite at the
milliner before choosing my winter hat.
Calve, who likes her own way, and generally
gets it, had a fatiguing round with a couple of
American port-officials at the conclusion of her
voyage to America with Gasparri. An immigrant
officer declined to record her by the illustrious
name of Calv 4, but wrote her down as plain
“ Mrs. Gasparri.” Then he and the purser re-
fused to accept the age she gave, but added a
decade or two and wrote “44 ” ! Calve almost
burnt the two of them where they stood with eye-
lightning. But before they even commenced to
smoulder, the health officer arrived armed with
authority and frightful vaccinating implements.
He was a determined man, and nothing would
convince him that he and his apparatus were
totally unnecessary. Finally he was allowed to
make a sear where the stocking will cover it.
With the ball season approaching, prospective
hostesses are seeking for dancing novelties. The
hostess wants her party to be marked by a sensa-
tion equalling that of the harem skirts ; the guests
want to be able to look wise, > and suggest “the
latest thing we saw in Paris ” ; and last, but not
least, the dancing master is ardently seeking the
sweet uses of advertisement. And so the novelty
is pursued. At present one hears rumors that we
are to see the “ One-Step” ; but it would be well
if a heavy duty could be put on its importation, or
if the Customs officials can’t ban it that at least
the good taste of women will do so. The “ One-
Step ” is the rage of a certain section of Parisiana,
but it is not the section a wife would introduce to her
husband. It is an unfortunate development of the
“ Boston,” which became somewhat popular last
year, but is uglier and less graceful. As one sees
it at the Bal Tabarin, danced by either two girls
or a man and a girl, it is merely a wriggle, danced
to a cakewalk measure, the step short and rapid.
Altogether it is ungainly, with but a thin line
separating it from the vulgar and indecent.
Melba will shortly be within coo-ee. She is to
leave London immediately the Coronation frivols
are over, and will land in Australia in good time
to supervise the final preparations for her grand
opera season. About September the musical folk
will be in Heaven—or as close thereto as it is pos-
sible to get without suffering the unpleasantness
of being a corpse.
The marriage of Nellie Russell, the daughter of
racing-man Russell of Auckland (M.L.), and the
Earl of Hardwick is to happen this month in
England. Come to think of it, the best way of
securing a front seat at the George V. series of
entertainments is to marry into the peerage.
People bored by the rather tame play at the
cricket “final” at the M.C.C. Grounds on
Saturday were diverted by looking over into the
Richmond Ground. There a girls’ cricket match
was being furiously waged between “Cold-
streams ” and “ Thistles.” They played cricket
right enough—but the dress ! The girls wore pads
on their legs (cricketing pads, of course), but the
conventional skirt hung down over the sheathed
limbs; and when the players ran—and some of
them ran like deer—the dust was scuffled up in
clouds. The scoring was a great joy—the whole
batting side squealed and shrieked at each
run. The bowling was good, but the hair would
get in the eyes. Still it was the unserviceable
dress that struck all the peeping onlookers.
There is nothing quite so fetching as fencing
garb, and if that were adopted, the game might
be better worth watching than even a slow
“final” played by mere males.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The authorities are to “consider” the regulation of
street traffic—and flustered woman says : “ Not before it
was time ! ” The roads and footpaths (especially at mid-
day on Saturdays) seethe with people, and vehicles go
where they like and as they like; so that crossing
Collins-street or Pitt-street is an easier matter than
negotiating undisciplined King William-street.
Most of us are busy recovering from Easter, when we
tried, as usual, to cram a week’s doings into three days.
The Adelaide Polo Club abandoned its usual gymkhana,
and instead played a match against Strathalbyn at the
Plympton Ground on Saturday. Sassiety motored down
and drank tea, and cast casuai glances at the game, and
saw the home team win. The main reason of the con-
test was the Richard Smith Challenge Cup, which must
be won three times by the same club to guarantee per-
manent possession.
Onkaparinga had a long chapter of accidents to its
debit this year. At the last moment two South-Eastern
jockeys (Campbells) were recalled by the death of their
father ; the first race saw the death of Harry Holmes,
who was piloting Kanmantoo ; later in the day two
horses were killed and another badly knocked about.,
and both Steeples (the Great Eastern and the Amateur)
were responsible for a bunch of falls. Since then, Harry
Holmes’s five-months-old baby has died too. The two
amateurs to get a shaking were Neville Colley and
“Bob” Cudmore, both popular and good horsemen.
They’re on the road to recovery, but are still in the doc-
tor’s hands.
By the way, can nothing be done to keep imbeciles
from running across the track immediately in front of
the hhrses? It is said that one of the worst smashes on
Monday was caused by a woman (in this matter they’re
worse than the inevitable dogs!) who ran under the
horses’ noses, and in some miraculous way escaped injury
herself.
But for the smashes, the day was all one could wish.
Perfect weather; record crowd; good finishes. The
pack on the road was something to remember, and the
dust was such that sometimes you couldn’t see a yard
ahead ; Ltrt that’s part of the game. The S.P.C. A.
(which sounds like the S.P.C.K., but isn’t) had posted
inspectors along the road at intervals, whose business it
was to keep an open eye for underfed and overworked
beasts. Four fat women and six babies does seem a
heavy load for one half-starved horse, especially when
the way is long and hilly; but it takes outside opinion
to force this home to some people. The presence of in-
spectors must have acted as a strong hint, for there were
fewer glaring cases than usual. Some enterprising souls
seized the occasion to pret rid of various worthless sove-
reigns, and, finding- the tote too sharp for them, turned
their attention to the refreshment tents. The proprie-
tors’ lurid language seems to suggest that they succeeded.
X suppose you’ve heard that we’re waging war over ithe
question of Sunday entertainments. The Government
has Early Victorian morals, and says “ You shan’t.” The
purveyors of entertainments say “ We' will.” Owen
Smyth, Superintendent of Public Buildings, locked Fin-
kelstein and Marcus out of the Exhibition grounds, so
they sued him for damages and reaped a harvest of £2OO.
Now we wait for the next move.
Miss Walker, who has been selected by the Government
to preside over the outcomings of female emigrants from
England, will depart by the Mnoltan on May 11. (The
lady undertook the difficult task of collecting evidence
from mistress and maid as to the Mary Ann difficulty
which is rampant here, and the fact that she incurred the
goodwill of both parties speaks sufficiently for her tact..
S’Australians wish her well.
Speaking of the Mooltan, we’re still feeling suspicipus-
of her discharged freight, and trippers who returned by
her haven’t yet been rushed with callers or, dinner-
invitations.
Ruth, the handsome daughter of Speaker Cedes, has-
changed her maiden name for Trew, and will be taking
up her residence on some up-country station. And the
McFarlane-Hawker wedding removes one of our belles
from Mount Lofty to the comparatively remote region of
the lakes at the Murray mouth.
What myth will the new chum swallow next? A
selector t’other day found an old man kangarooin earnest
conversation with his dogs, and, “having heard that if he
picked up a couple of sticks and handnd one to the mar-
supial to distract its attention, he could deal it a knock
out blow with the other,” he tried the experiment ? Re’s
now busy darning what’s left of his clothes and pouring oil
on his bruises.
The servant girl is rapidly becoming ex-
tinct, and the question for women is, “ What -gre
we going to do,about it ? ” The problem is fully
discussed in the May issue of The Lone Hand.
Other features are Dr. Richard Arthur’s indict-
ment of our Defence schemes, entitled “The
Sham of Our Defence” ; V Sir Francis Drake and
Australia,” a stirring page from our past, written
by J. H. M. Abbott, pictured by Norman
Lindsay ; and a big budget of Lone Hand fic-
tion. Two new features that will find favor are :
“Books Worth Reading.” a litefary guide
to the new books; and “The Great Australian
Industries,” the first of a series of articles describ-
ing in popular language how Australia is making
Australian things. With this issue The Lone
Hand begins its fifth year of publication; and it
begins it cheerfully with a big and bright issue.
A growl from up the line : '
No trucks for coal, no trucks for firewood, no trucks
for wheat, but lots of trucks for the conveyance of decent
white Australians ! Easter Monday I put on my best
suit, went to the railway station, and bought a ticket for
Bendigo and its Easter Fair. When the train arrived I
was hustled into a truck. That in a white man’s country,
and the best country on earth ! And, arrived at the
Fair," somebody told me that Deakin had just been in
Bendigo saying what a dreadful thing it would be if any
change were made in the control of the railways.
“R. 8.” : The Commonwealth Postal De-
partment is hereby advised to withdraw extra
postal facilities from the Japanese Club, jat
Broome. The Japs’ mailbag is sealed at the
Japanese Club by the Jap secretary, and taken
from club to steamer and from steamer to club
sealed. Australia is very like the kindly house-
holder who provided the burglar with a fire
escape so that he might not risk his life on a
ladder.


Present State of Beauty Culture
IT has been suggested to me to prepare
a special article dealing in a general
way with the present state of what is
known as “ Beauty Treatments.”
To do anything like justice to a sub-
ject which deals in ever so limited a
degree with Beauty of Women would
exhaust the space of a thousand volumes.
Shakspeare has sung it, and Petrarch
and Goethe ; but the combined efforts of
a score of such giants of the mind could
no more than touch the fringe of the sub-
ject.
The Cultivation of Beauty is a Science.
And if it has been so formulated and
systematised that it is now counted
among the sciences, it is due principally
to the efforts of Austrian, Russian and
German men of learning.
Therefore, it is to those countries that
we must now look for light and guidance
in the important business of preserving,
improving and restoring the beauty of
woman.
Now, concerning the conditions in
British countries: What, precisely, are
they ?
I am a foreigner, and must observe
discretion and tact.
But, frankly and reverently, British
Beauty Culture is really very, very elusive.
Many seem unable, to realise that the
skin of the face does, in point of fact,
require differeiit'care than is given to the
tegument of the rest of the body. When
one remembers that it is the only part of
the anatomy which is always exposed to
the vicissitudes of the atmosphere, it must
become clear that it should be treated
with a due regard to this important cir-
cumstance.
And so I am often asked : Is soap
uood for the complexion? Now, in the
form in whiPh it is put, this question is
unanswerable except by 'someone who is
particularly interested in the sale of soap.
If the inquirer would ask whether it is
good for her complexion, the question
would be properly framed. I would then
ascertain whether her skin is inclined to
be greasy, or is normal, or dry. In the
one case I would say : Yes, you should
use soap and water often, provided, of
course, you have the right kind of both.
In the other instance my answer would
be: You may use them, say, twice a
week. But in the last instance I would
reply : If you wish to have a complexion
left at all, shun soap and water as you
would the plague—and in their place use
a pure, scientific emollient cleanser or
skin food such as Valaze or Novena
Cerate. These will keep the skin in-
finitely cleaner than soap and water,
without drying, shrivelling and irritating
it. Moreover, Valaze possesses skin
clearing, toning and stimulating proper-
ties which give this speciality a unique
position among complexion correctives.
Some readers may here interpose that
they are unable to judge of the require-
ments of their skin, possessing no quali-
fication or knowledge of the subject.
My advice to these is : If you do not
know, ask.
To show how different scientific beauty
culture is from unscientific and slipshod
methbds, my book, “Beauty in the
Making,” has been translated and adapted
for circulation in all English-speaking
countries. As a contribution to the
literature of the Beauty of Woman it has
been acknowledged to be a book of in-
terest. It is a handbook which sums up
the very newest researches of a science
that should be dear to the heart of every
woman. Anyone who will write to me
for “Beauty in the Making” will receive
it free of charge; but it is an essential to
mention this paper as the source of the
inducement.
The complexion preparations which I
have brought from my native town,
Vienna, and other parts of the Continent,
and which I supply for home treatment,
are the fruit of painstaking researches of
such scientists as Drs. Paschkis, Lassar,
Unna, Liebreicli, Schleich, and others,
and many of them prepared under the
direct supervision of their originators.
These specialities have been tested
under every clime. I have studied and
seen their action on the skin in the tropi-
cal heat of Australasia and India; in the
moderate zones of Central Europe; in the
cold latitudes of Canada and St. Peters-
burg ; and under the uncertain and vari-
able weather conditions of England.
In the adjoining column will be found
a list and prices of some of these exclusive
specialities, none of which poses as a cure-
all, and all of them are intended for dis-
tinct purposes and necessities.
HELENA RUBINSTEIN.
BOUDOIR SPECIALITIES.
VALAZE.
A lady of high social standing, whose
name, well known to every woman in the
land, discretion forbids to mention, has
said: “Valaze is as necessary to me as
fresh air.” Why? Because it yields to
the skin active stimulation, true nourish-
ment, and convincing beauty, ensuring
freedom from lines, crows’ feet and other
similar defects. It makes the skin proof
against all vicissitudes of weather and
climate. Valaze is sold in jars at 3s. 6d.
and 6s. 6d.; 6d. postage.
DR. LYKUSKI’S BLACKHEAD AND
OPEN-PORE CURE
banishes these disfigurements. It closes
enlarged pores, cures a greasy, coarse
skin, and assists in preserving a healthy
complexion. By its use the skin is per
fectly cleansed, effectually braced and
stimulated to healthy action. Price,
2S. iod. a box, posted. No. 2 of same,
for more obstinate cases, ss. 3d. posted.
VALAZE POWDER AND NOVENA
POUDRE.
Mme. Rubinstein is the first Com-
plexion Specialist to differentiate between
the dry, moist, oily, normal and “ shiny ”
skin when advising the use of powders.
To dust a “ fatty ” powder over a greasy
skin would be adding fuel to the fire,
while putting an absorbent powder on a
dry skin would not only make it difficult
to adhere, but it would also aggravate the
dryness. In boxes, 2s. and 3s.
VALAZE FRECKLE PASTA
is a preparation of extra strength, to
obliterate obstinate freckles and to whiten
the skin of the face and hands. Price, ss.
NOVENA CERATE
is an emollient skin-cleasener. When the
skin is delicate and sensitive or intolerant
of soap and water, it should be cleansed
with Novena Cerate. It is rubbed well
into the skin, and the result is a delight-
ful skin bath, such as one finds quite a
new experience. Price, 2s. and 3s. 6d.
VALAZE LIQUIDINE
is a new complexion lotion, and probably
the most interesting and remarkable pre-
paration of the century. It overcomes
many undesirable conditions, among
which are enlarged pores, blackheads,
undue flushing of nose and face, and oili-
ness of the skin. It may be applied twice
daily, or more frequently, to remove dust,
travel stains and oily secretions. Price,
ss. and Bs. 6d. a bottle.
All orders, accompanied "by remittance,
should be addressed to Helena Rubin
stein Prop. Ltd., Dept. 18, Valaze Insti-
tutes, 274 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 158
Pitt Street, Sydney; and at Wellington,
N.Z., and Mayfair, London.
fs
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
df
YOU CANNOT AFFORD
to be without Power for your Farm
or Workshop.
Write nearest A<rent TO-DAY, priving: particulars of
any Machine or Plant for which you require Power
at a Minimum Cost.
A 20th CENTURY FERRO FORMULA.
LABOR minus POWER equals Small Out-
put; Small Profits.
LABOR plus POWER equals Larger Out-
put; Larger Profits.
LABOR plus FERRO POWER equals
Largest Output; Largest Profits.
let us Help You—with a
FERRO—to Make Profits.
Made in 3,4, S I'A, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17, 25 h.p.
Suitable for STATIONARY, PORTABLE or MARINE USE.
FERRO AGENTS:
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Howard Motor & Cyole Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN,
j. F. Connelly, Fort Street, AUCKLAND.
The Tobacco YOU Want.
Y
OU want a Tobacco that is not too strong—and not too mild—
a tobacco whose aromatic frairranee will jfive added zest to
your smoking:. Such a tobacco is
FINE (WAFER) and MEDIUM CUT.
NIMROD.
Jib., 2/-; posted, 2/3
1 lb., 7/6 ; posted, 8/3
J lb., 3/9; posted, 4/3
3 lb., 21/-; posted, 22/3
KISMET CIGARETTES.
THE FINEST 1 BLEND OF TURKISH AND VIRGINIAN LEAF.
c c c c
VIRGINIAN,
a box, 9d.; posted, 10d.
a box, 1/9; posted. 1/11
a box, 3/6; posted, 3/10
a box, 6/6; posted, 7/-
TURKISH.
10 in a box, 1/-; posted, 1/1
25 in a box, 2/6 ; posted, 2/8
50 in a box. 5/- ; posted, 5/4
100 in a box, 9/-; posted, 9/6
IS
ANDREW McGEE,
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
... 6d
... 5d
Jerdan’s
HOME.” BATTERY
the Nerves.
HHi
In the rush and stress of this 20th century busi-
ness and social life—the nervous system suffers.
No matter how hustling, how try-
ing your work, we guarantee you
exemption from all nervous strain
troubles, breakdowns, etc., by the
daily use of our "Home” Battery.
It is a wonderful bracer, a nerve
strengthener. It tones up the sys-
tem, and gives new life.
Also, it is invaluable for all
Winter Ailments and Complaints.
Our "Home” Battery is corn-
pact, conveniently and easily
handled—and the first cost consti-
tutes the whole cost.
Send for the Battery. If you are
not thoroughly satisfied, we will
refund your money.
Price 35/
Post Free.
JERDAN’S,
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney
sdf
AlUwool unshrinß*
able Socks. Stockings,
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as wool —not
a mixture of wool and cotton —but all wool.
If the name 2£tsS is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you will know that you have all-Austrahan-wool wear,
and more —that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
\ AaS
Further, the process makes them as soft and com-
fortable as silk. And are made in England.
' Stockings. Socks, atid Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters. Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for ” Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent to— ©
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
<f>
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwardsof Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.


CALDWELL’S
“ABSOLUTELY I |V| O
PERMANENT.’’ ■ ■ rVO*
ANTHONY HOIDEfIN AND SON,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
The Rapid Healer.
Rexona,provides the latest short cut of science
to a complete remedy for pimples, boils, sores
wounds and skin diseases generally. Which road
will you take, reader ? The old-fashioned, tedious
long way round, full of irritations, relapses and
de ays, or the short cut to the rapid remedy wHiicli
modern-science has provided you in the shape of
>na. hold in triangular pots at Is. 61. and 3s.*
There is no place in the world where there
are more sudden and extreme changes in tempera-
ture than in Australia. We often experience a
climate of three different seasons in one day, and
the result is that numbers of people contract a cold
in the stomach and bowels, which causes great pain
and suffering. There is nothing that will relieve
this suffering so quickly as Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy. This is the best
medicine in the world to cure bowel complaint in
all its forms. It is a sure cure for diarrhoea,
dysentery and colic, and has never been known to
fail.*
The manufacturers of that luxurious neces-
sity, Cerebos Salt, which serves well-appointed
tables the world over and has the approval' of
many Royal Appointments, have received the
Warrant of King George as Salt Purveyors to His
Majesty.*
Messrs. Scrubb and Co., Ltd., have been
granted a Royal Warrant appointing them Mann-
facturers of Scrubb’s Ammonia to His Majesty
the King. Thej’ also held the Royal Warrant to
His late Majesty King Edward VII.*
SUFFERED AFTER
EVERY MEAL.
* :
Life was a Burden With
Severe Indigestion.
+
Health Completely Wrecked—
Pale, Thin and Miserable
Cured by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills.
*
.Mrs. James Moody, of 34 Arundel-st., Fro-
mantle, W.A., found her .health completely
wrecked by Indigestion. Do what she woulq,
she didn’t get any relipf until she tried Dr.
■ Williams’: Pink Fills, and these completely
-Cured her. The Use .of, this tonic in indi-
gestion is of value because the stomach is
strengthened to a point that enables it to do
its wofk With ease.
“On and off Indigestion, used to trouble
me very much, and at last a really bad at-
tack came oh,” Mrs. Moody told a reporter.
“It didn’t matter what I ate or how little,
the moment the food was down I would get
a dreadful burning pain at the end of the
breast bone, and the ache between my shoul-
der blades was dreadful. Everything was a
burden. I didn’t want to wash, or sew or
do anything, but just lie about whenever I
could. I was quite worn out and exhausted.
I hated to hear a dinner plate rattle against
another, apfl the smell of cooking made me
feel sick. I hated to be in the kitchen.
The food I did take always repeated on me.
I had-wind round the heart so bad that I had
to loosen all my clothes, If I hurried for a
tram my Heart would b<?at furiously, I would
have to stop and rest for a few minutes.
The heart attdeks alarmed me very much.
All my color left me, my faee grew thin and
sallow' and pasty. I fell away in flesh. I
never could get a good night’s rest, and I
would w r ake in the, mornings so tired that I
could hardly get out of bqd. My back ached
all over, and when I stooped the pain got
worse. My ears and , head had such ring-
ing and buzzing sounds, they used to make
me feel quite dazed. At last I decided 1 to
give Dr. Williams’ Pink Fills a trial as they
'had proved of great benefit to my little giri.
The first box didn’t seem to make much dif-
ference, but in a little while after, improve-
ment set in. My appetite began to pick up.
and I found that I could sit down to a meal
and not feel any pain after eating. All the
pains and aches left by degrees, and I ;hftve
been free from Indigestion ever since. As
to my littlle girl, they saved her life.”
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes
15s. 3d., ana if you have. trouble in get-
ting them, send a postal,note for the amount
to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia, Ltd., Sydney, and .they will be
sent, post free, by return mail.
fsd
THE LOSSi
OF A LIMB
need not mean , the hiss
of activity. Large num-
bers of people to-day are
comfortably pursuing their
avocations by wearing skil-
fully-constructed Artificial
Limbs. \Ve are Makers
and Importers of the most
perfect that up-to-date
skill can produce, including
those with Rubber Hands
and Feet,' which ' have
proved such a boon.
DENYER BROS.,
Artificial Limbs, Trusses,
& Deformity Appliances!
281 CEORCE ST. (Opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ;
and at Melbourne—Cor. Swanston & Lonsdale Sts.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Church is becoming increasingly
shocked at the development of “ class conscious-
hess,” and in Melbourne the Anglican Synod in-
tends calling a conference to try to discover how
best religion may battle with the “growing evil.”
This sudden concern of the Church is very touch-
ing. When “ class consciousness ” was confined
to a very rich, powerful, dominant class, it was
scarcely noticeable from the height of a pulpit;
but now that the workers have realised that they
also belong to a class, and have thereupon set
about abolishing a few of the monopolies
and other privileges of the first-class, their
struggles and their triumphs suddenly become
evidences of an unrighteous and linbrotherly senti-
ment. Apparently perfect brotherly love con-
sists of one brother affectionately eating the other,
and the other submitting with fraternal sweetness.
MUTUAL SYMPATHY.
From a Melbourne paper:
The Acting-Premier, in comparing the Arbitration
Court with the Wages Board, said that in Maoriland the
workers were reluctant to go before a certain Judge
because that Judge was not favorable to the workers.
That was not the case in this country, unfortunately.
After thus implying his objection to Justice
Higgins, Willie Watt proceeded to describe his
Honor as a man who would give the workers jus-
tice. Well, what does Mr. Willie Watt want—
“unfortunately”?
THE NEW REVOILT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Happily, the Caucus, in its eagerness to make the most
of its elevation to power, has over-reached itself Its
revolutionary proposals have roused the people to revolt.
—Argus
Revolt! Oh, joy !—revolt at last! The revolution’s on,
With rebels biffing rebels each the other’s jaw upon ;
With Leaguers’ skirts a-whirl, and gamps engaged to right
and left,
His scalp and shirt from every pro-Australian reft;
While homes that Stout once wept about go roaring up
in smoke 1
hook, barricades and guns ! Isay! The thing's beyond
a joke-5-
Revolters revolooshing in the saored name of Stout !
Oh, hear the beggars shout:
“ We are the revolution ! Let us heave the rebels out! ”
Revolt ! The slogan sounds the call of revolution now ;
Wild revolooshers smite wild revolooshers on the brow !
The tocsin hoots, the trumpet sounds, the platform-hero
cri es
His last, loud word, and girds himself to strike once ere
he dies
For his stout cause !. . . Here’s stuff to make the high
gods laugh belike :
Stout booked for flat rebellion, and his henchmen sworn
to strike 1
Listen ! The sound of fatted feet! Hark the courageous
din !
Please pass the torch along !
Weleo ne the Guaranteed Revolt 1 No other genuine.
Revolt! Our rebel hordes are strong to help the rebels
win.
Rise, Stout, to push Australia out and put No Progress in.
Yet, should we land one blow at least for old Australia,
now,
And give bath brands of revoloosh a fair show, anyhow ?
Gosh, NO ! For Stout, his trusty revolooshers must arise
And, with gold bricks and free drinks, smite Fair Play
between the eyes !
Come, pals of Slowgress, help the bird of Liberty to
moult,
And give Reform a jolt ;
Lift up your flag and flap it—shove along the New Revolt!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
TO GET THIN WITHOUT FASTING.
Fat folks shouldn’t fast. To repress your
appetite is not at all necessary. If you wish to
reduce flesh rapidly and safely, take two teaspoon-
fuls after meals of this simple home mixture. One
half-ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract
of Gljcyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine
8.P., and Peppermint. Water to make six ounces.
This will not cause a wrinkle, nor will it necessi-
tate any interference with your ordinary diet.*
In order to meet a constantly repeated demand,
the above prescription has been condensed in the
form of a compact and perfect tablet known as
Marmola Prescription Tablets, and those readers
who prefer them to the liquid form can obtain same
of any chemist, 3s. 6d. per box, or post free from
The Marmola, Co., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
JS’.S. W.*
The building of the Warrego and the
1 kclihood of similar contracts being captured by
Sydney has moved the Weary Government to
make a start at establishing a shipbuilding yard
between Williamstown and the mouth of the
Yarra, at a spot bearing the wildly original name
of Greenwich. The Government’s present inten-
tion is to build two 600-ton hopper
dredges, needed for the “port im-
provement ” scheme. If lie had dune
that two years ago, instead of allow-
ing various public bodies to send
abroad for dredges that “couldn’t be
built here,” he might have had a
sizable shipyard in effective trim by
this time. Apparently it didn’t
matter, though, so long as the work
was being done in some foreign
country. It was only when a neigh-
boring State began to do things that
were talked about that Weary woke
up.
Boyd, ex-M.L.A., director of
the Jumbunna Coal Co. (Vic.), com-
plaining of the competition of the
State coal-mine, says that the latter
wrote off a deficit of £50,000. But,
added Boyd, it didn’t matter whether
it was written off or not —it was a
dead loss. This has given Peter
Mcßride a chance to say that it was
not £50,000, but £21,000; and even
that much wasn’t dead loss, because
the opening of the State mine had
added £300.000 to the land values of
the district in which Wonthaggi is
situated. And the special beauty
of that feat lies in the fact that this
increased value, like the mine itself,
belongs to the State, and not private
landowners. Which, of course, is the
annoying part of it. Fat doesn’t
mind the State spending twice or 20
times £50,000 as long as the money
adds to the value of his own private
property.
“8.J.H.0.” makes an astonish-
ing statement: —
The Bulletin recently noted (30/3/’ll) that at a recent
referendum Geelong (Vic.) discarded its ancient, and
rotten Corporation Act by a majority of 645 votes ; but
nobody who knows anything of the Geelong Town Coun-
cil would fall into the error of supposing that any notice
will be taken of the people’s wishes by the fat fathers of
the hamlet. At a recent meeting of the council a motion
was brought forward that J. Weary be informed of the
result of the poll, and asked to arrange for a Bill to give
effect to the wishes of ratepayers. This motion was cast
into outer darkne-s, all the aldermen—who would cease
to exist under the Local Government Act—voting against
However, as acting-Premier Willie Watt is sus-
pected of being able to read, it seems not impos-
sible that he will find out the result of the local
referendum even if the council doesn’t tell him.
The “No’’-bodies in Melbourne must
have had a heap of somebody’s money to play
with. Never was so' much of the Devil’s oof
misapplied over a general election. The railway
stations and public places were plastered with
“No ” posters, and “No ” pictures and pamph-
lets were strevvn from one end of the State to the
other. Intelligent electors had only to turn to
those posters to see that the intellectual back-
number was fighting for “ No.” One vast colored
cartoon pictured that inspired novelty, the man
sawing off a tree limb on which he himself was
perched. Another daringly original conception
represented the dog dropping his bone to grab a
shadowy hunk of grub. A third was a fresh and
ingenious invention in the shape of an octopus.
These fire the blue-mouldy chestnuts of the car-
tooning art. and the party using them advertises
nothing but its mental poverty. Only people
with “No ” brains were influenced by these efforts
of the party of “No ” ideas.
In London, on January 26, George Reid
told the Chamber of Commerce :
“In Australia wages are high and
living is cheap. All the essentials
of living are at their cheapest
point, except one perhaps—house
rent.” Ordinarily Sydney Tele-
graph says that G. Reid is a
paragon ; but on April 13 it pro-
ceeded to call him a liar, by
screeching in heavy black type :
“The dearest country in the
world to live in, as well as the
most heavily taxed.” Then, haying
screeched at the top of its voice
that Australia is the worst place
in the world for the immigrant to
come to, the Telegraph vyiill.
within a few days, be whining
about the lack of workmen, and
telling’ Bat that the scarcity is? all
owing to the wicked Socialists. And
Fat, instead of kicking: the Tklkgkaph
good and hard for yelling Stinking Fish land
discouraging immigration, will, as likely as not,
say “Hear, hpar.”
The Vic. Government is said to be con-
templating another call on Cohen. Money is re-
quired for the renovation and erection of many
school buildings, and there is talk of floating a
loan of anything up to half a million for the “per-
manent and reproductive” job of putting a new
pane of glass in the school at .Tacker's Flat and
the like
The Argus, which used to believe that at
any rate it was respectable, threw even that
doubtful virtue overboard during the Referenda
campaign. At Perth Andrew Fisher said
1 believe that we will carry these proposals ivith a
majority that will make them law and part of the Con-
stitution, but I say, in the presence of two of my col-
leagues, that we will not despair even if they are not
carried. We, as a party, are going to; uphold the princi-
ples despite any rebuff.
Whereupon the Argus printed the yarn with the
headings:—
The Referendum, G
Mr. Fisher Fears Defeat.
No doubt Fisher did “ fear defeat” ; but he didn’t
expect it, though the Argus knew well enough
that that is what nine out of.'lo of its ignorant
readers would assume. If, in reply, Fisher had
scattered a few million “dodgers” to the
effect that “ The Argus Fears the Prosecution of
its Editor for Bigamy,” the old paper would pro-
bably be annoyed, and it might ev£n refer angrily
to the disgraceful way these lower orders fight.
Sample advt. screeched in Victoria during
the last days of the Referenda campaign “If
you don’t want to be taxed from N. S. Wales,
vote ‘No!’” Heaven only knows what the
Referenda had to do with taxation ; but it at least
shows that the “No ” appeal was an appeal to the
oldest and narrowest anti-Federal provincialism.
A WONDERFUL FAMILY LIKENESS.
“ Hie[?] ’S[?]use me, gentlemen, are you
brothers? ”
John McFarlane, of the Clarence, com-
pletes his quarter-century in the N.S.W. Assem-
bly this year. The only other sitting members
who were in the House when lie arrived are
R. H. Levien, C. A. Lee, Wm. McCourt, and
John Nohbs.
Australia didn’t always depend, as it does
now, on Ram Chunder for bags in which to put its
wheat. Victoria owns a veteran Scot (85 not out,
and still batting well) who can give evidence in
this matter. He is James Miller, who, away
back in ’53, founded the rope-making business
now carried on by Jas. Miller and Co. Pty., Ltd.
His firm in the ’6o’s started to make woolpaeks
and cornsaeks, spinning their own yarn and
weaving their own cloth, and for a time did very
well. That was before the manufacture was com-
menced in India; but as soon as that happened
the infant white industry went down before
“ black ” jute, and took a pile of capital with it.
J. M. Speed, a Gent One, put the
Referenda campaign to a quaint use in Wes-
tralia. He printed a “Yes, Yes” pamphlet
whose argument really hung on this hook
Mr. Deakin brought into 6ur world his pet twins—
measures against combines and in favor of New Protec-
tion. Now, because he and his friends ,are not to be
allowed to wet nurse ihem, he and they are trying their
utmost to strangle these same little offspring.
So lie titled his pamphlet “The Waifs and the
Referenda,” and announced, with keen appro-
priateness, that the money derived from its safe
would be devoted to the support of the Home for
abandoned infants at Parkerville.
The news is published that when the
Powerful is relieved by the Drake at the end of
the year, the floating ballroom of Farm Cove is
to roll home to England to be dismantled and
converted into a hulk. So the bad old Imperial
idea that the Australian Station is next door to
the naval scrapheap has endured to the very last.
The other subsidy ships, which hang themselves
about the harbor when they are not tramping
like sore-footed policemen around the Islands,
will probably go the same way when their
time comes to up anchor. The First Lord only
knows what the British Navy—especially the
part it hires out by the day to oversea “ Liberal ”
Governments —would look, like but for the eter-
nal paint brush. '• Anyway, the prompt ruling-out
of the ramshackle flagship on completion of its
present commission should encourage; all good
Australians to cheerfully face the bill for their own
modern ships, and to stand behind the Labor party
to whose efforts the change is due. “Liberalism’s”
idea was to defend Australia by increasing the
subsidy for whatever herd of lame ships J. Bull
liked to send us, and by purchasing one unmanned,
gunless battleship for Channel service with the
donations of title-hungry clubmen and the beer
and lolly money of smaller patriots. And it held
tenaciously to that, livery-stable ideal of defence
till the absence of public enthusiasm, the broad
hints of the Admiralty and the vigorous shoves of
the Labor Party made it crayfish along the straight
and obvious course towards responsibility and
safety. The well-meaning but futile person who
was willing, in the frenzied days of the newspaper
subscription lists, to defend the Empire with the
price of a bottle of lager, and the small, green
Gor’saver who was ready to Stick the Union Jack
to the mast with one cake of chewing gum, may
now be considered extinct.
When -T. C. Watson announced his inten-
tion of let iring from politics, the anti-Labor press
made endless capital of the assertion that the
Labor party was going too far for him, atid’ that
he had decided to retire rather than support an
extreme policy with which he was not in con-
currence. The extremists, whom he could no
longer check, were driving him out, it was said.
Then, to prove that the Tory.press was the same
old prevaricator, Watson put in strenuous work
at the Federal and State elections, and wound up
by leading the “Forward” section in the State
Labor Conference which gave Holman, McGowen
and the other ’bus-missers a bad hour or two.
There is a batch of political libel actions
incubating in Westralia. A while ago, pretry
soon after the Wilson Government had found out
that its reliable majority was something under
two, it was impressed with the urgency of redis-
tributing the Assembly seats.- A bill was accord-
ingly put through ; and when the mostly-Labor
goldfields constituencies saw how they were to he
treated the Kalgoorlie Minkr dropped in an
article on “ Three Rotten Sticks ” —the allegedly
rotten props being the three goldfields members
who were lassoed and harnessed into Wilson's
team. Now the three Anti-Sosh props—Gregory,
Connolly and McKenzie—have sent along in
timations that they are dissatisfied with the unfair
distribution of wealth in Westralia, and wantsome
of Hocking’s and Kirwan’s.
Before leaving for London lou Ward sold
many of his belongings (horses, carriages and the
like), and gave other indications that he desires a
rest from Maoriland politics. The job of Jones,
the present ailing and feeble High Commissioner,
would probably just about match his inclinations.
Lots of things considered, Joseph is possibly the
best man Maoriland could provide as its High
Commissioner. To discover another Premier in
his party will be the difficulty. Jimmy Carroll
(“Wait a Bit”), the Acting-Premier, would not
be able to last as head of ; the Ministry, and the
once-powerful Millar (Minister for Labor) is now
very doubtful. Fowlds, Minister of Education, is
perhaps the nearest approach the Cabinet con-
tains to a possible Premier; but he lacks experi-
ence, as well as a great many otlier things.


Th. BECHSTEIN PIANOS
r
J
are used by all the great Pianists of
the present day—no other Piano can
fully satisfy tbeir requirements. Tbeir
tone quality is perfect.
JOSEF HOFFMANN writes cf them ♦—
"The Bechstein Piano possesses greater poetry of
tone and resembles the human voice more than
any other instrument. It is the realisation of my
ideal of a piano, and the only one on which I
can express all I feel."
MADAME CARRENO writes:
" The Bechstein Piano is the ideal of perfection,
and, above all other instruments, responds to all
demands of an artist."
We stocK these magnificent Pianos
both in Orands and Uprights, and
invite you to call and inspect them,
or to write for full particulars.
Catalogues are free for the asKing.
W. H. PALING <a CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
and at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE,
and TOOWOOMBA.
PATHE FRERES
Australasia and all
Over tl\e Earth.
Cinematographers=in-Chief
by Popular Acclamation.
THE ARTISTIC PREDOMINANCE of this Firm's Goods
is A FACT BEYOND DISPUTE*
Now Releasing Each Week —
A Perfect U Unapproachable Programme
of PATHE FRERES Masterpieces,
and THE BEST PRODUCTS OF OTHER MAKERS,
English, American and Continental.
ON HIRE at an Extraordinary Low Rate.
All Showmen should not Miss the Opportunity of Securing
a Series of Pictures which CANNOT POSSIBLY BE APPROACHED.
PATHE’S LATEST MODEL OUTFIT,
ACKNOWLEDGED THE MACHINE PAR EXCELLENCE.
EVERY POSSIBLE REQUISITE FOR THIS PROGRESSIVE ART
to be obtained at
Pathe Freres,
SYDNEY ;73 York Street (’Phone—City, 3161).
MELBOURNE: 50 Queen Street mone-ism
And BRANCHES and AGENCIES IN EVERY CAPITAL.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE—Education by Means of the Cinematograph.
fs
For Dress Fundlions.
FARMER’S
"VICTOR”
Dinner Jacßets.
Ready for Service
PRICE
42-
SOME men are continually called upon to attend
functions of various kinds; others but rarely.
For frequent use or odd occasions, Farmer’s
Victor Suits are a quality and value triumph.
Designed to please the most exacting from splendid
quality Black Venetian Cloth —cut to the hour of
fashion—step or roll collar as desired, and
finished with rich silk facings. Price
421-
Black Venetian Dress Trousers,
Ready to Wear, to go with the “Victor' - ’ Dinner Jacket; in all sizes.
Price 16/6 Pair.
Evening Dress Vests.
In White Pique, 8/0, 10/0, 13/0 to 10/0 each.
In Black Venetian Cloth, 10/0 each.
Dress Suits.
In splendid quality Black Venetian Cloth ; perfectly modelled,
ready to wear. Price 7 51 m the Suit.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FOR ~ SUM
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.,
BUILDERS OF THE
Bristol BIPLANES
as used throughout Australia by
MR. J. J. HAMMOND,
and also bv other World-Renowned Aviators.
Sole Agents for Great Britain and Colonies for
the Celebrated
GNOME Engines.
The British Government has Ordered Four Bristol
Biplanes.
The Russian Government has Ordered Eight
Bristol Biplanes.
For Exhibitions and Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
cjo Union Bank, Sydney.
“AN AUSTRALIAN’S HOME
MAY AT ANY TIME BE INVADED BY SICKNESS
In the best regulatec} families the little
ills of life will creep in. Some member of
the family circle may occasionally suffer from
Biliousness or Indigestion, and one or the
other will from time to time exhibit the well-
known. symptoms of Constipation. From
these little troubles more serious complaints
arise, and should, therefore, not be neglected.
The slight headache,; bad breath, and discol-
ored tongue are the index of a disordered
stomach, and the necessity of keeping a safe,
sure and reliable remedy in the house is ap-
parent. By following such a course the
more expensive method of calling in a doctor
will be quite unnecessary. Be your own
doctor, prescribe Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and always keep the little bottle in the
house, so that when sickness invades your
home you will have a sure and reliable
remedy to banish it from your threshold.*
1910 MODEL
WITH
SYR U PING
RACK
IjOTELKEzPERS who want
" the Best Aerated Waters,
Buy a “ BANKER ”
Carbonator, 1910 Model.
It makes uniform AIR-FREE
Soda Water at half the cost of
the Rooking Process. No
Labor, Fuss or Muss. Shows
the pressure and quantity in
cylinder. Pay a little down,
and let the saving pay the
rest. Our Catalogue and Price
— — T . rv — List posted free on request.
To Rank More Money—Bn.v a “Banker.” Nelson
Carbonating- Co., Ltd., 167 George St. N., Sydney.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
df
BY
APPOINTMENT
asd
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrub'o & Co. on each Bottle.
fas
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COCLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
So Sydney Kemp was not a dark horse,
after all. Or, perhaps, it might be fairer to say
that he was not sufficiently dark to douse the glim
of champion Pearce, who led the whole way, and
finished, looking as though he had not been fairly
extended, by the huge margin of 20 lengths. There
are some spectators who say that he won by only
12 lengths; but as the judge said 20, well, it was
20, and there’s an end on ’t. But although Kemp
was beaten, he pulled a game race and a fast one,
undeterred by the fact that the first mile had proved
to him that he was up against a snag. After that
distance it was obvious that, barring a miracle,
Kemp’s name was Slush—he had no hope unless the
champion suddenly contracted paralysis. In fact,
the race was so one-sided that it soon ceased to be
interesting, for a dog-walloping is not sport. There
must be some bad judges of sculling in charge of the
game when such an obviously hopeless chance is
traded off under the disguise of a championship race.
It only wants a few repeats of this sort of thing,
and sculling will be back at the dead-house.
Before Pearce landed after his victory, he was
informed that an ambitious youngster had challenged
him. Pearce remarked that the young man would
probably have “to wait.” Meantime the wireless
station was sending waves out over the Tasman Sea,
requesting a word with one Richard Arnst. And the
wandering wave, speeding eastward, bumped the
Ulimaroa, 920 miles away from the Hotel Aus-
tralia, and communicated the news to him. Arnst
was gratified, and in response said he would meet
Pearce for £5OO a-side and the championship, in 10
weeks. On this news being imparted to Pearce, he
said he would be delighted to row the champion—
in fact, there was no other champion he would sooner
row. So now all he has to do is raise £5OO, get
into condition, and do the trick. Thus history is
made. And, presumably, the smaller fry that put
£25 deposit to bind a match with Pearce as winner,
must feel properly and correctly crushed. Arnst
was on his way from Wellington (M.L.) to Sydney
when he received the aerogram.
Of the 24 races in the four days of the
A.J.O. meeting, only eight were won by horses which
could be labelled favorites, and amongst the other 16
were some of the wildest outsiders ever known. The
army of Maoriland bookmakers driven forth by a
sensible betting law made their first plunge into the
Sydney sea of flats, and so beautiful did they find it
that they wonder why they didn’t come before. The
saddling paddock betting fee for Randwick is £75
per annum, and Patrick Noses doesn’t mind paying a
mite like that to enter Tom Tiddler’s ground. Mean-
while, has anybody heard anything of Papa Levien
and his Tote Bill?
Comedy King endured two sound beat-
ings on Wednesday. A fat-headed holiday crowd
simply piled its money on him for the All-Aged
Stakes (one mile), despite the fact that he was in
the unproven class as a sprinter. In the final upshot
Sol Green’s crack finished a bad sixth, after being
backed down to 13 to eight on. He went out at
evens for the Cumberland Stakes, and succumbed to
both Trafalgar and Byplay. The beautiful litttle
Persimmon horse never looked better. Simply he
wasn’t class enough at the weights and distances he
was asked to negotiate. The joy of Israel was ac-
centuated by the fact that these two “skinners” dis-
posed of innumerable doubles.
On Saturday onlv two favorites rolled home, and
one of them (Trafalgar) was a seven to one on pro-
position. A tragic meeting for punters closed ap-
propriately with the victory of Reg, a 100 to one
chance, whose name was not so much as whispered
in the hearing of one Nose out of 50.
The books’ profits on these two days alone would,
if pooled, probably suffice to get all'N.S.W.’s finan-
cially-muddled hospitals out of debt, and build a few
new ones to boot. The cash would go a considerable
way towards paying for the Government’s proposed
“free” ferry service; invested, the interest on it
would provide pensions for an army of aged citizens.
All of which advertises yet again that N.S.W. is
deliberately foregoing a vast income because it
hearkens to the Wowser-caro-bookie clamor against
the Tote. The most righteous of “Liberal” Govern-
rpents have accepted the principle that the fool-
public must be encouraged to drop its hard-earned
cash somehow at race-meetings. Surely in the cir-
cumstances it might be allowed to drop the coin into
the State’s pockets, instead of into those of Private
Enterprise.
Apropos, how many bookmakers give a proportion
of the dead-easy money they make to hospitals or
any other sort of charity ? Painful as it is for a
White Australian paper to chronicle, the heathen
Chow disburses about 14 times more in this direction
than the typical frequenter of Tatt’s.
* * * *
The aged show-jumper, Skylark, holder of
the water-jump record at Sydney Royal Show, put
up his “final” last week, when he cleared 29ft. 3in.,
which was 3ft. more than the next best “lepper.”
Then he dropped dead. The judge tied the blue rib-
band round the corpse’s neck, and that was the
last of a fine animal, which has delighted thousands
of Show-goers.
* * * *
More than the customary crop of dream-
ers has arisen to claim victory and winnings over
the win. of Moorilla in the Sydney Cup. It is in-
dustriously spread about that, far from doing well
over the Sydney Cup, Christian Abrahams was in
reality fleeced by the seers of visions, one of whom
is said to have raked in £5OOO, another £2OOO,
and another £l5OO. This sort of guff is presumably
spread by the pcncillers to create an impression that
the meeting, which was generally considered to have
been as near a skinner of the public as history wots
of, was rather good for the knowing backers. The
amount of betting done was tremendous; the big
backers of horses had worked out a regular cam-
paign, which, had it come off, would have landed
some of them as much as £30,000. This country
is a land of big bets these days, and the profits of
those who bet against the propljpts are expanding
accordingly.
After the debacle at Randwick recently,
there is something tantalising about the Maoriland
tote records. At five of the chief meetings at
Easter-tide £165,782 passed through the machine,
while last year, with the bookmakers in opposition,
the amount was £102,644. This increase of £60,000
probably represents the share that Christian Noses
used to rake in from the old Conservatives and young
fools, and not an increase in the actual betting.
The chief point is, of course, that, barring the 11*
per cent, tax, all the money went back to the public
and not into the pockets of a ring small in numbers
but vast at the waist-line.
L. W. Pye. the Parramatta cricketer,
after being excluded from the Ma State’s representa-
tive 11, turned his cash and attention to motoring.
To-day he is the accredited prize-hogger in the
N.S.W. motor reliability contests, and might have
held the Tasmanian hoggership but for an accident.
Recently he conceived the inspiration of taking his
ear to the Apple Island and racing across the
orchard ; but on reaching Hobart the car was acci-
dentally dropped overboard between the steamer and
the wharf. It is Hobart’s boast that there is more
water alongside that wharf than at any other wharf
in the world, and whether that is true or not, Pye
found it deep enough to go on with.
* * * .
Though L. W. Pye thus struck ill-luck,
and had all his chances of winning the two days’
reliability Tasmanian trophy spoiled, Dr. Collins
gathered in the prize for the Ma State. So the
chemist’s hard luck was the doctor’s gain.
* * * *
H. A. Parker, the N.S.W. tennis player,
last week added two Tasmanian championships to
his numerous stock. In the Singles he defeated H.
Hunt for the title, but joined with him in the
doubles to smash up Manby and Brownell, who repre-
sented the State. Parker has now gathered in over
a century of prizes, championships, and other things
of that sort, and is seemingly good for any number
more.
* * * •
As everybody knows, hoof-ball is taken
mighty seriously in Maoriland, and the seriousness
is on the increase. In wet, windy, slushy Welling-
ton, which was created as a prison for Satan before
Sheol was thought of, the Rugby Union last year
had no less than 2000 players under its control.
This season it is said there will be nearly half as
many again, so, apparently, the windy city is yearn-
ing to kick something, and probably isn’t very par-
ticular what the something is. If the same progress
is general over the Ricketty Isles, the atmosphere
this winter will be simply filled with biff and flying
boots.
* ■* * *
The rush for a chance to get into the
English-going Rugby League team was, is, and
will be terrific. The officials are at bay like men
surrounded by wolves, and the wary secretary Larkin
proposes to arrange to die in his bed after a peace-
able old age, by sending a band across the Pacific
to missionise the Yankees. Of course, although the
nominal object is to teach the Yankees the new game
and thus widen the field of international matches,
Hie real obiect is to save the lives or minds of the
officials. They are having the time of their lives.
* * * *
The Sydney daily pressman who recently
wrote that enthusiasm was “running at fever heat
in the Rugby League,” wrote truthfully. It has
been running at fever heat; wherefore, although
only practice matches have so far been played, men
have been sent off the field and threatened with more
senenis punishments for displaying a tendency to use
the fist on the player instead of merely applying the
boot to the ball. One referee had evidently been
designed by the Almighty for a pressman, as he
boiled his yarn about the disturbances down to
something like this: “Smith v. Jones.—Ordered
both men off the field —equally to blame; but Smith
far and away the worst.” What a State politician
was lost in that man!
* * * *
Consider the mighty Rugby League and
how it eclipses Jonah’s gourd. This coming Satur-
day it will open its first-grade competition
with eight well-balanced over-manned clubs; on
Saturday week it will open the second-grade com-
petition with 16 teams, an increase of four on last
year’s number ; and the same day will also see the
start of the third-grade with 23 teams, an increase
of seven for this season. There were other entrants
banging on the mat and hammering at the panels,
but the League shooed them into the juniors or any-
where out of sight. The question is, Will it burst
—about the head ?
Next Saturday the “muddied oaf” will
get busy in Melbourne. The “reform” movement
has practically fizzled out, and the League has ar-
rived at a dead end re the question of open payment.
A majority of the delegates favors rescinding the “no
payment” rule —which is defiantly broken—and an-
other majority desires to fix the payments that can
be made to players; but as neither majority is equal
to the statutory three-fourths, the 1 motions of both
parties have lapsed. So the season starts much as
last year’s did, save that the League has admitted
the existence of a rule that it daren’t enforce.
As a test of grit and stamina, commend
us to d motor-bike reliabilitv ride. In a car one
can make himself fairly comfortable as long as the
cold can be kept out. But in a motor-bike there
is no shelter, and in bad weather, on bad roads, it
is just plain Sheol. The Motor Cycle Club of N.S.W.
held a run during Easter from Sydney to Nowra and
back. Only five managed to struggle through the
awful conditions to Nowra, where they found more
rain; and as the wire spoke of rain right along the
route, three of the five retired and made home by
train. The steadfast two were Norman Saunders, on
a _3*-h.p. Bradbury, and L. J, Astley, on a 3*-h.p.
Triumph. They left Nowra in blinding rain and a
torrent of expostulations. For six hours they battled
along the greasy roads, with the rain beating in
their faces and the machines skidding and slipping
all over the place. When they made Albion Park
they were “all out,” and there was nothing for it
but to retire.
“A Man Who Was There” : Hitherto the
übiquitous motor-car has swallowed the best of the
world’s rubber supplies, and the price of rubber has
run mad. A year ago it touched 12s. per lb., which
is a sinful sum of money to pay out on wheel-tires
weighing anywhere up to 251 b. apiece; and even now
the price is painful, unless your name is Rockefeller.
But this is going to be altered, and an Australian
is going to do it. A few days ago, at Manly, near
Sydney, three others and I witnessed a trial of the
new “Hyde” motor-wheel. The wheel we saw, and
looked over, and rode over, is about as unlike the
ordinary wheel as the modem golf-ball is unlike
the old feathers-and-leather contrivance. The car
runs on a number of turns of %-incli wire-rope,
forming a “tread,” between which and the felloe
are placed a number of spiral springs, attached,
radially, to a steel channel-rim fastened to the
felloe. The steel sections securing the springs are
held in position by rubber cushions, which prevent
displacement and take up the shock. The cost is
from one-tenth to one-eighth of the old wheel!
And the “life” is anywhere from three to six months.
The car- —an old-type Daimler, of 12-15-h.p.—has
been running for the last two months. It has covered
more than 1200 miles, and, so far, the wheel shows
little or no signs of wear and tear, beyond the
snapping of two or three strands on the outmost coil
of wire cable. As the rope is laid in the direction
of the wheel’s rotation, this snapping is, so far,
immaterial—and, anyway, wire rope doesn’t cost
much. And it runs as smoothly as one of Bruce
Smith’s speeches.
Saturday and a fairly big crowd saw the
end of Melbourne’s cricket season, when P’ran de-
feated Northcote by 69 runs on the first innings,
and collared, the pennant and whatever glory waves
at the tail of it. Previous week-end, in the semi-
finals, the same P’ran had walloped East Melbourne,
and Northcote had passed Carlton its first defeat
this season; and on Tuesday the pair met to con-
clude the discussion. P’ran won the toss, and
cautiously put together 208 (Stephens 77, and Bell
60). Northcote had an hour’s batting, and succeeded
in losing three for 37 —which left the rest of the
team much to ponder over while awaiting Saturday.
When they did resume they made almost as dis-
astrous a show, only F. Yeomans (40, not out) doing
anything notable, and the last stump fell for 139.
P’ran’s premiership win is mainly due to its pos-
session of a few good bowlers, notably Kyle, Bell
and Beath (five for 44 was Kyle’s record for the
final match) ; but irs far as consistent play goes,
Carlton is head and collar above the rest. Northcote,
the baby club of the V.C.A., did well to run-up.
Last year’s premiers, St. Kilda, adorned the bottom
of the list with a dozen or so points less than any.
A curious irregularity occurred during ’Cote’s
innings in this final game. One of the umpires
allowed ’Pran bowler Rogers to deliver 12 consecu-
tive balls. He got a wicket with the fifth, but the
second “over” or half of the over was a maiden.
Which circumstance fortunately saved much argu-
ment and a possible protest.
W. W. Naughton. the ex-Maorilander,
who is now one of the best known of United States
sporting Press writers, and in between times presi-
dent of the San Francisco Press Club, is on a visit to
Sydney after side-stepping it for 18 years. “Uncle
Bill” reckons to stop three weeks in the city; and as
he weighs about 18 stone, stands 6ft. and a few
inches, and is in the pink of health, he seems quite
capable of holding up, even under a flood of enter-
tainment, for that time.
* * * *
“Petramos”: Adelaide is beginning to be-
lieve that the “hope of the white race” will be
found in its local champion, young Ernest Waade-
witz, known in the ring as Waddy. Waadewitz has
the cool, calm style of Mistah Johnson; he stands
in the ring like a statue, till instinct tells him to
go in and slaughter. Recently he easily beat Tom
Dunn, who held the welterweight championship of
the State, and who fouled badly in the fifth round.
On Easter Saturday Waddy made Livingstone look
cheap, an'd knocked him out in the eighth round,
and as Livingstone is the next best thing to Waddy
the City of Churches can produce (he had never
been beaten previously), it is now up to some inter-
state gentleman to come along and be biffed. Waddy
has never yet suffered defeat. He is a baker and a
philosopher. Says he: “It’s a good game while
you’re winning;” “Micko” Walsh (of whom The
Bulletin once said: “Put lOoz. gloves on him, or
don’t let him fight—he’s out to kill”) has taught
Waddy much, and now says he can teach him no
more.
Bill Carrie, whose amateur successes
tempted him into the professional circle, had his
features still further maltreated in his mill with
“Nugget” Scanlon, at Ballarat, a few evenings ago.
Carrie went lOst. 101 b., and Scanlon list. 51b. The
big person jumped for William, “as mountain cat that
guards her young,” and Carrie bore up against his
troubles as best he could. Scanlon’s burst of
energy did not survive the judicious prods his rival
administered now and again, and the fifteenth round
saw-Carrie a lap ahead. William won on points,
and his hope of one day fighting for Australia in
U.S.A. is revived.
Lang’s story of his disqualification in the
Langford fight is pathetic. ■ According to his yarn,
the negro did not fall or slip, but was well and
truly sent to the boards with a good punch. Lang
stood over him ready td hit him as soon as he got
up, and when he came up Lang swung. Langford’s
manager yelled to his man to drop, and he dropped,
and as Lang couldn’t stop the blow, he was dis-
qualified. But what an amazingly quick individual
Langford must be • to get up and go down again
while Lang was hitting one biff. He evidently has
his goings up and down under more control than
Lang has his swipes.
“Eryander” : As one who has made prac-
tical experiment in the matter, 'this wrestler v.
boxer controversy interests me much. The question
is not at all a new one. Nearly 40 years ago, when
I was considered a pretty good “fistist,” I had a
friend who, being an excellent wrestler, maintained
that he could easily get away with any boxer of his
weight—three or four pounds over my then lOst. 71b.
We had frequently argued the point in Jem Mace’s
presence, and one day the old ’un suggested that we
should put the matter to actual test, in the presence
of a small, but knowing, spectatorate. My friend’s
style was Cumberland-and-Westmoreland, which
counts a fall when ground is touched by any part
of the body (even a finger-tip) except the feet.
Well, we tried it, and for five rounds I prevented
him from getting a hold. But it was a mighty hard
job, for he kept circling round to my left so rapidly
that I could never get a really loaded punch on to
him. But in the sixth round I suddenly wheeled
in the reverse direction, and met him with a right
to the nose that made him sit down with great sud-
denness. But, in the very act of rising, he flung
himself forward under my guard, got a good grip,
and threw me a cracker. When proceedings re-
commenced, my head was buzzing like a bee-hive,
but it remained clear, and I ‘ blocked the circus-
business by backing to a corner of the ring, away
from which I hit him again and again with straight
lefts. But my fall had hurt me severely ; the steam
went out of my blows, and presently the twister-man
got a chance and threw me another burster. Then
Mace called a halt, and “spoke a pieced” which
might almost have inspired some recent Bulletin
remarks on the subject. Quoth the redoubtable
James: “This ain’t a fair go. To even matters up,
there oughtn’t to be no gloves at the boxin’ end of
the show. There’s no gloves on them hard boards.”
“All right,” said my friend, now beginning to be a
bit cock-a-whoop, “let him take off the gloves. It
won’t make a scrap of difference.” But it made all
the difference. He got a comparatively light left
on the mouth, lost his temper, rushed recklessly in
to get hold, and received the same hand on the same
spot with a poundage that burst open both his lip?,
sent him staggering across the ring, and opened his
eyes to the possibilities of the stripped fist. He was
so astonished that I really believe he had never been
“hit naked” before. At all events, he would have
no more of it, and never “barracked” for wrestling
again.
N. S. Wales bowlers had a great time
last week, cleaning up Queensland and Victoria in
one swoop. Tasmania, of course, had been wiped
out previously, so the Australian championship stays
in Sydney. And the Sydney bowlers are hard at
work trying to get their hats on.
There was a remarkable finish for the
Barambah Plate at the recent Nanango (Q.) amateur
races. Six nags started, and the judge declared that
four of them dead-heated for second place.
Harry Holmes, killed on Easter Monday
at Oakbank (S.A.) “picnic” meeting (his wife and
three children Were part of the picnic), had been
talking of retiring for years, but every big event
saw him in the saddle. He went in the G. N.
Hurdles, an event he had won four times. Unlike
most jockeys, he hated wasting time between races,
so carried on business as a furniture remover.
The big Easter meeting of peds. at Stawell
(Vic.) was notable for the appearance of*champion
sprinter Jack Donaldson, and erst champion runner
Arthur Postle. Neither, however, annexed any of
the oof attached to the big events. In the Sprint
Handicap (75yds.), both failed to accomplish the
needful in their heats, Postle unhappily straining a
tendon in his hip. In the Easter Gift (130yds.,
first prize, £120), Postle lost his heat, and Donald-
son, who gained his by a brilliant run, missed secur-
ing a place in the'final scamper. The race was won
by D. 11. Devine in 11 2-ssec.
Suggested “motter” for Bill Lang in his
forthcoming fight with Lester in Sydney: “It is
better to give than to receive.”
The ■ Royal Life-saving- Society, whosp
awards cover the surface of the Empire, has expanded
into a huge concern. The society first saw light in
1892, with a membership (accepted only by axam.)
of 86; in 1910, the total reached 11,779, of which
3484 had been awarded bronze medallions, 308
awards of merit, 11 diplomas, and the balance various
grades of certificates. Australasia has a big hand in
the society, surf-bathing and life-saving proficiency
accounting for the bulk of the awards.
At the conclusion of the coming cricket
season in England, Albert Trott will probably re-
turn to the Commonwealth. He is still doing
well for Middlesex, though his glory isn’t what it
was a few seasons back.


df
asd
fa
sdf
The Name on the Ptrap
to a " Marshall ” Shoe means just
what the "Hall Mark” on a
piece of silver plate is to it. If
the Name " Marshall ” is not on
the Boot, do not accept the un-
scrupulous dealer's word that it
is " MARSHALL. ” It cannot be
if the Name is not on the Strap.
HALF & QUARTER SUES
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in
Stock . 1/ you • s doesn't, ivi ite and lit
mill send you address of the nearest
Dealer , with Catalog.
Marshall Shoe Co.,
Makers of Men’s Fine Shoes,
Richmond, Vic. 302
Make^
your
own
Cigarette
ItiiT^
twice
asgoodJ
CIGARETTE
PAPER
B'E.ST and VWE.ST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. U? 255? George S* Sydney
mHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
JL appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
“Coafomat Hard Hat
KEG Da
“THE ACME OF COMFORT.”
THE highest grade HARD HAT, hand-made in a
special way frtmi the choicest materials ; con-
forms to the head, making it most comfort-
able and easy-fitting even when new, and fits an\
shaped head. Exceptionally liirh', very durable,
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED.
Price 13/6.
In all the Newest Season’s Styles. Stocked by
Leading Retailers throughout Australia. Try one.
Insist upon having the genuine best with lhe
Trade Mark “Confomat” stamped on the leather.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills* Ltd• *
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h p. Chalmers
£.490 Touring Car.
40=hp THOMAS,
6-Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
To supply the power for Ms -motor •ledges,
with which he hopes to reach the South Pole
CAPTAIN R. F. SCOTT, RJN.,
CHOSE
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT.
Why?
Because he took it to the snows of Norway and actual!),
tried it on his snow sledges before he would trust -
himself to use it in the unknown Arctic Regions.
Its perfect purity—
that’s the point ! !
Mechanical Breakdowns
Don’t Worry Motorists
who carry a Bay State “ Autokit.” Nuts in hitherto
inaccessible places can be easily reached and worked.
The combination fits any nut on any car, as well as the
sparking plug. You should have an “Autokit”
aboard with you—it saves exasperating delays.
Set No. 1 consists of handle, reversible ratchet wrench, two steel shanks,
screwdriver, coupling, universal joint, spark plug socket, thirty steel
sockets, white nickel finish, 50/- set.
vs?.
*2l9*
&3§§jg^gg
Set No. 2—Same as above, except only
12 sockets are provided. 42/G set.
n - /1
ir
ii ~ ~
V*) *
( ~ ,
\X'%v
It’s Post Free.
Send for our 256-Page Catalogue.
THOMAS MCPHERSON & SON
582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
w
THe Cycle that Wins.
Our Model 3is a machine that wins on its merits, It is made so
strongly—yet so lightly—that riding becomes a pleasure indeed.
To quickly get about, to ride to and from work, to make the most
of week-end jaunts, there is nothing that will compare with a good
cycle, and that our Model 3 at £ll is a good cycle none can doubt after
once having ridden one.
Our Pitt Street Depot is.open till 9 p.m. on Fridays. Call and we
will show von one.
BENNETT & BARKELL, Ltd.,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 PITT STREET, and CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
rTHe Rig'ney shoe Catalogue!
Every gent, who is interested in the better class of footwi
should send for a copy of our new Catalogue.
The Rigney Shoes are high-grade in every detail-
perfect in fit. smart in style, and correct in finish.
The Shoe illustrated is a Dark Tan Willow Calf
Dex'by Shoe, Rope Stitched Welts, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-,
22/6. Also in Black, 19/6, 21/-, 22/6.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the
personal management of Mr. F. C. Kidney, who is the sole
and only proprietor of the above firm.
asd
A. M. L. 8 F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian, Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
♦. ♦ FOR .♦ ♦
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager.
Also at Melbourne Brisbane
“ Curse o’ Moses” : A line argument for
military training is being advanced m the S. M.
Herald by certain ancient volunteers who wore
armor in the Australian Middle Ages. One
veteran, in bis pride of years and service, wrote
to say that lie had good reason for thinking him-
self the oldest trailer of a rifle in the State.
Immediately a shoal of other antique persons
sent in letters stating that they had been in vari-
ous companies since the beginning of the nine-
teenth century, and knew others, still living, who
were there at the same time or even earlier. Ihe
general impression gathered from the correspond-
ence is that most of the old volunteers are still
hale and hearty, and that soldiering in Australia
is a marvellous preservative of health. With our
whole male population trained along better lines
tliMn were possible in the slipshod dciys of volun-
teering, centenarians should be as common as
colds; and it is just possible that here and there
we may have a patriarchal athlete challenging
Methuselah to an “ all in ” contest for the cham-
pionship in longevity—if the .Taps don’t come too
soon.
When John Weary has finished looking on
at the Coronation he and McLeod, the newly-
appointed Victorian immigration agent, are to
foregather with Agent-GeneralTaverner, and the
three are to look up some domestic servants and
select the “ right sort of girl,” as Fat’s missus puts
it. John is going to find it a worrying job; for
the “right sort of girl” is always dead—she
always died out about 30 years ago.
When Dig. Denham recently toured
Queensland,' he cried perpetually: “No, No!”
and referred to the blessings of Home Rule and
the curses of centralisation. While he was in
Townsville the Northerners took him at his word,
and, having pointed out that Townsville was fur-
ther from Brisbane than either Adelaide or Syd-
ney is from Melbourne, asked him to appoint a
Deputy-Railway Commissioner for the northern
system. Thereupon Dig-his-own-Grave Denham
promptly fell in by saying that he didn’t see any
necessity for it at all, and that a commissioner in
Brisbane, with a traffic manager at Townsville,
answered all purposes admirably.
Seelion
Section
"Oceanic
Cover.
The Reason -
DUNLOPTYRE
give such long wear and satisfaction on our roads
is seen in the respective Tyre Sections illustrated.
Note the Actual Thickness
of the Pure Rubber Treads!
No other Tyres approach them in this respect,
nor for the quality of workmanship throughout.
# * * *
Send for copy of Illustrated Booklet, “All About Dunlop Tyres for 1910.
Gratis on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney; Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and Christchurch.
Section
Dunlop.
"Speed”
Non-Slipping
Road-Racing
Cover.
Section
Dunlop
Thorn-Proof
Cover.


fa
SYDNEY’S
LEADING
JEWELLER and
SILVERSMITH.
A. SAUNDERS
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather MOTOR BAG.
Good Quality Frame, High-
class Lining, 1 ()/<>.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pail' of Handsome “An-
tique” Bronzette Fijjuves,
on Black Metal Pedes-
tal. Height, 14 inches.
35 /•
•X-'v
■#XX
fSt|
wmm
,
* .
A. SAUNDEKS.
THE A. SAUNDERS’
NEW “RIMLES&”
CLIP,
15/, 17/6-
Gild-Filled Mounts,
Solid Gold, 25/,. 30/.
t
Secure', Light,
Comfortable. I
Write for our -Free'
“Home Eye Test
Chart,’’
posted to any <
address.
WE DO NOT
EMPLOY j
TRAVELLERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Miner’s MAGNIFYING
GLASS, Triple Lens,
Nickel Mounted, 5/0.
Double, 2/; Stronger,
3/6.
A. SAUNDKUS.
Gent.’s Military' Jvbony
II AIR BRUSH, Solid
Silver Shield, Fine
White Bristles, 7/(»-
A. SAUNDKRS.
Pair of Handsome “An-
tique” Brorizette Figures,
on Black Metal Pedes-
tal. Height, 14 inches.
25/.
Morocco Leather WRITING FOLIO.
Good Strong Nickel Silver Lock and
Key, Fitted with l Large Divisions
for Stationery, etc., also Writing
Pad, in Two Colours, Sultan and
and Dark Green, $/<>■
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK TOBACCO JAR, Barrel Shape,
with Plated Lids, Mounts, and
Shield, Porcelain Mnts., o/o.
ananpc
A. SAUNDERS.
WALNUT ANEROrD BAROMETER,
Highly Sensitive and Accurate, Open
Enamel Dial, 2">/.
Hh
SB
A. SAUNDERS.
CENT.’S: BRUSH SET, contains Brush,
Minor, and Comb, in Morocco Lea-
ther Case. 1 o/c?.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S HAND MIRROR, Nicely Embossed,
8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BOWL and
BRUSH, Polished
Nickel, Porcelain China
Bowl, ,->/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pearl-handled POCKET
KNIFE, 3 Best Sheffield
Steel Blades, Button
Hook, Nail Cleaner, and
m
mK
'/J.SWA
LADY’S EBONY HAIR BRUSH, Silver-mounted, Good
Quality, Bristles, 12/6-
WE PAY
CARRIAGE ON ALL
GOODS EXCEPT
CLOCKS AND
CIIIN AW ARE.
WE SEND
CATALOGUES OF
EACH DEPARTMENT.
POST FREE,
ANYWHERE.
<3
as
i
■: S
A. SAUNDERS.
J 4-DAY WALNUT CABINET CLOCK, chiming the
Hours and Half-hours on Cathedral Gong-, High-grade
Works, Handsome Silver and Brass Dial, £2/I’d/.
Works kept in Free Repair for .2 Years.
A. / SAUNDERS.
POWERFUL 3-DRAW BRASS TELESCOPE, .14in . extended,.Bin .clos.eci
Light, Portable, contained in Tan Leather Case, 10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Student’s Powerful
•MICROSCOPE, jin
Cedar Case,
106. }
iZ
A. SAUNDERS.
Maxilnum and Mini-
mum THERMO-
METERS/ White
.Japanned Case,
Metal or Opal
Seale, 8/6..
.Wooden Bodies, S/,-
: 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Brass-cased Sight COMPASS, Jewelled Bar,
2-inch Card Dial, 12/6-
3-inch, 22/6.
A SAUNDERS.
FIELD GLASSES, Enamel-finished Frame, Morocco
Leather Covered, Achromatic Lenses, Sharp De-
finition, iio/-, including Case and Strap. Fitted
, ’ ' ” with' Compass, 27/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Round Hand READING GLASS, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
Rectangular Lenses, "2/6, 3/6, up to 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S COMPANION, containing High-grade
Sheffield Razor. Nail Scissors, Corn Knife, Tweezers,
. Corkscrew, and Nail Cleaner, in Solid Leather Case,
14/6- Without Corkscrew, 12/6.
10/6
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
CENT.’S DRESSING COMPANION. Fitted with
Every Convenience,. 10/0
launiuiiaiiiiuwtiiimmiMimitiMwiiiimtwiiflamiiiiitiuHiHiifflHuini;
A. SAUNDERS.
Sl’-P OF CARVERS, Finest Sheffield Steel, Knife, l‘ork, and Steel, with Square Xvlonite Handles,
in Velvet-lined Case', 1 <)/(».
15/6
15/6
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S SET, Comprising Highly-polished Nickel
Tobacco Jar, 2 Pipe Racks, Match-holder, and
Crystal Glass Ash Tray (pipes not included),
15/6-
jeweller.
kintfCHs Clocjf
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER? „
807.809,811.813.815.81?. GEORGE ST. [Opposite Railway Srarionl SYDNEY,N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
t0 HSULT//y e
&WICIHM


m
. 3 u
,
Mi' ■
la
'A
\ l>
N\N
£
Ow
rv
m
w/t
Kv\\
I////
?>//
> >V.v
Yd
§
M
m
!Ss£
5^3
Xl
Z<2S.'?
3^
//
gg:
rj
2C
✓ X
n/
/ ■
le:'
No bad ‘ 4 Lie ’’ ever worries
O
•|V»
Utei
r^TT7i».
m
m I
***—"^y«\ ImV.>#;•».
Born 1820,
still going
strong.
sdf
So when someone out in Calcutta, or Borneo, or Cape Town, or Sydney or Valparaiso,
or any little jaunt from “home” laments that he “cannot get the good old Scotch they
have at ‘home,’” call for Johnnie Walker, let him taste it, and tell him about the vast
ageing, reserve stock and the ninety years’ experience that make possible the Johnnie
Walker guarantee, “same quality throughout the world.”
IN SQUARE BOTTLES.—Johnnie Walker, Red Label, over 10 years old.
„ „ „ Johnnie Walker, White Label, over 6 years old.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd.,, Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.
And at SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
i
Preeminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
asd
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
.DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
fas
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’o*Ui*S
NOW is the Season for
SKSs
Clipping Horses
—" " ■" ———■limßßmhßr. JtlUini Jill J irTTg
Our illustration shows the simplicity of using the
“Number One” Horse Clipper.
A big hoise can be clipped in 30 minutes.
You must know that clipping improves a horse’s
health, prolongs his life and increases his value.
The “Little Machine that does Big Work” has
steadily grown in popularity throughout the
length and breadth of Australia, and we say
with all truth no horse-owner can afford to be
without one. Send for leaflet.
With Ball Bearings, 40|-
With Roller Bearings, 35/-
Sole Agents -for New South Wales
and Queensland—
HOLPSWORTH, MCPHERSON & CO.
252 George Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony .
with each .
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/li, 2/9 & 4/6
df
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
I- ■ f.j >
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the Only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY. \


THE
SURE CURE
The best of food cannot nourish
you unless, you digest it properly.
The relish' for food and the power
to digest it depend on the healthy
FOR
INDIGESTION
action of your
stomach, liver
and bowels.
When these or-
gans are dis-
ordered, your food does not properly
digest, but ferments and gives off
poisons that enter your blood and
BILIOUSNESS
bring on pains
after eating,
headaches,
biliousness, constipation. Mother
Seigel's Syrup is the best remedy
<for all these troubles, because the
HEADACHES
herbal extracts
of which it is
made quickly re-
store the stomach,, lliver and bowels
to natural working order. Then
you can relish and digest your
COIISTIP AT lON
food, your sys-
tem is freed from
the poisonous
products of Indigestion, and good
health follows naturally. Try the
Syrup, after your next meal.
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP.
THE HERBAL TONIC MADE OF
ROOTS, BARKS AND LEAVES.
‘Boulevard
The Latest
and
Smartest.
asdf
WilF not
slip at heel.
PRICES—
l4/6, 18/6 & 211-
Pumps and low-cut Oxfords are the fashionable
Shoes for Women’s wear. The great objection, r©
pumps in the past has been that they would stop,
off the heel.
THE “BOULEVARD,”
an entirely new style, is so cut that it canmtit
slip. It is decidedly smart, and we guarantee Vr>
to stay Where it belongs.
Prices 14/6, 18/6 and 21/=
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/-extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and
Brown. Large Tins 6d.
Write for our Booklet “ Shoelight."
EEEMING’S,
*O9 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
305 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
l 1 & 5 Errol Street, Nth. Melbourne.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
Bird’s
Custard
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Michelin
Tyres.
THE BOSTOCK
&
<s.
w
■'i
w.. /,
r,/J S"ttr.’rtts
Viet Kid, latest
Round Freak Toe, Best
English Oak Tanned
Leather, Sole Handsewn.
21-
Postage
t/* Extra.
EPWARP FAY,
THE BIG BOOT BLOCK STORE.
YOU are wanting: a reliable pair of Boots, and are not
certain where to buy or what brand to choose. Try
a "BOSTOCK ” —they are the cream of English Foot-
wear, and every pair is guaranteed. We sell them for
A GUINEA— the lowest in Sydney.
We Guarantee Every Pair We Sell.
If you want a pair of Boots that will fit well, and look
well, pay us a visit; we can please you.
Country Customers can rely upon us for selection
of goods. Just slate the shape and size required,
and add 1/- extra for postage. You will be
delighted with your parcel.
You must try a Pair of our “ Dreadnought
Soles. They will outlast three ordinary Soles, and
will not slip. Cent.’s, 1/9 ; Lady’s, 1/6.
Cornei PITT 8 LIVERPOOL STREETS. 8 at 716 GEORGE STREET. HAYMARKET. SYDNEY
The Point of View.
There are two ways of winning a cycle race—one is to come in first from a mark,
the other is to do the fastest time off scratch ; and the latter method carries with it
all the prestige.
At a recent test on Kowen Hill, Queanbeyan, a well-known motor-cycle got in
Erst in lmin 23secs. ; but THE REAL TRIUMPH was gained by Bennett & Wood’s
Speedwell Model “A”
'which negotiated the hill from scratch in linin'. 19$secs., and thus won the fastest
i itime. “The pace was truly terrific, and if the killing grade, round dangerous corners,
:rouky boulders and deep gutters be taken into account, just what such a ride means
■will be appreciated.”
The Speedwell Model “A” is h.p., and is the most reliable hill climber
on the road.
Come and have a look at it.
BENNETT & WOOD, ETD.
Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
THERE IS NOWHERE SO GOOD AS
“THE TARRANT,
Melbourne’s
Big Garage.
m
mm
WE REPRESENT IN VICTORIA
Fiats, Fords, F.N.’s, j Mercedes,
Commer Commercial Cars, De Dion’s,
Argyles, Rovers,
AND
The “ Mea ” Magneto, the Leader
of Ignition.
Repairs, Accessories, Tyres, Oils, Gears, at Lowest Prices.
TARRANT MOTORS PROPRIETARY LTD
104-112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
jpOae*
YSTERY
IRTM
/r iJ’-r
m
fix
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party— don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU cun be as clever and funnj as he by
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers * '
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono-rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
S » S 8 <fr
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yer, puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
The Wonderful Plate-Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
. unexpectedly as.they sit at meals. No
one can see the ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/-postfree.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO..
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25*27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will b&
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
Old Sub.: The fact that the Labor party
held the balance of power in that Parliament was
proved by the fact that w'hen it transferred its sup-
port from Reid to Lyne, Lyne came in and Reid
went out. Neither had a majority without the
third party.... Bellerive : From the latest batch of
tragedies:
AFTER THE DANCE.
After the dance was over and the music ceased to
play,
A young couple along the sandy beach did stray ;
A gay rival had danced with the damsel fair
Which had aroused her lover to jealous Despair ;
lie slew her and consigned her corpse to the sea,
Then sped from the spot of his cruel Tragedy.
But ’twas witnessed by God. The remains of the
Dead
Was cast up by the waves for the burial dread.
Upon the murderer fell the hand of the Law
For his deed of the night on the bleak sea-shore.
....Inquirer: No, not for the ordinary Bulletin ;
Commonwealth postage on that is 1d....N.Z.: Keep
on being sanguine; it’s liglf the battle. .. .Caustic:
We’re waiting for a stronger defence of music' and
musicians. .. .Clarence C.: Verse printed (no matter
in what column) is paid for. Cut out and send
with date and page to Accountant Marcus:
Thanks; but no “Australian Society,” please. Form
yourself into one, if you like. . . .Gnibs: Another
sinner who sends typewritten stuff with the lines
jambed so close together that even the mind of a
Wowser couldn’t squeeze between....,!. McD (S.A.) :
Failed to find anything tempting amongst them....
J.W.R.: No particular merit in Holy Joe’s Prayer.
Evalun: Ingenious idea, but we’ve met it be-
fore....L.L. (Q.) : “Night” is a gloomy, well-
meaning poem with a speck of promise in it, show-
ing like the gleam of a late novel-reader’s candle
seen from a distance of three miles. ... Sheoak:
Sorry unsuitable. .. .J.A.T.: Too slight and the
treatment is rocky.... Maui: Thrown out on the
casting vote of the last-speaker. .. . BurnSy: We like
even our goat stories fresh.... Trapper: A brace of
lines from your rabbit poem:
If thou art of gentle habit
, Thou art welcome to partake of rabbit.
Exactly. Only the fierce, determined person can
escape it. The gentle soul has to meekly swallow
the national affliction or go without. .. . J.8.P.:
Promising idea handled feebly....E. Wilder: Un-
suitable.... The Jester: Is this any better than the
last? We forget for the moment how bad the last
was, but feel justified in saying that the first couldn’t
have been worse. The sentence, “After that Charlie
gave his parent a very wide Birth indeed,” makes a
tragic finish... .Arthur H.: It is a curiosity:
THE BUSH-WOMAN.
She’s fresh from the hills.
Gaunt and thin, no frills,
Hungry : comes on market days.
One black tooth a smile betrays. , ,
Got religion young,
Overtight she clung.
Immured in a balmicide.
Down there her kind often slide.
But an old friend took her home,
Severely stopped her mind’s roam.
Love and sternness cured disease,
Where doctors procured no ease.
It was loneliness—as much:—
To someone woman must clutch,
Her husband failed, womanlike;
She clung to God, loverlike.
She’s mothered a family.
1 daresay that God will see
That her girls get strong husbands
Strong minded wives, her boys land.
... .W.T.: Instead of making a laborious poem of
it, put the information plainly like this: “The river
is flowing as usual and reflecting the trees which
overhang it nicely. When the wind blows, the
branches make an agreeable rustling sound. All
well down here. Love to the family.”... .T.J.M.:
llow do you get footsteps in the river down which
you are drifting? Do you suffer from cork legs, or
what? Pudsey: Undoubtedly you are making
desperate, efforts to get something out. We ob-
serve your boots protruding from the haystack of
words you have pulled down on yourself.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Momentum: That isn’t a joke. It’s a fossil....
Billy K.: On the sample there might be a chance.
. ...C.L.C.: Not a smile in an acre of them....
H. Grif: Sorry, too late....E. Thomps: There’s a
budding crop of promise in it... . Bro: Both have
the moss of ages on them.. .. W. N. Jamestown: On
the sample submitted, the youth could be better occu-
pied chopping wood.
“ Carmine ’’ wanders round :—-
Opitz’s Cafd, in Russell-street, Melbourne, is opposite
the Pekin Oafb. Opitz ooufageotisly sticks up:
“No Asiatics Served.” Supping tliere last night, I was
deliciously surprised with a painting by'John Hennings
on the plaster ot' the wall. It is 6ft. high and 12ft. long.
The subject is “ Sunset on the Yarra,” opposite the
Botanical Gardens. Painted in 1880, the picture was
damaged in 1896 by stabs from some idiot boozican, but
was skilfully repaired by artist Johnston, w'ho appends his
name with pride. The painting is a masterpiece. There
is a blood-red sunset, and the effect is splendid
when the afternoon sun shines in through a plate-
glass window. Hennings had evidently calculated on
that window. I fancy there is a little poetic license
with the spire of the Scots Church and Dr. Bevan’s Cam-
panile in the dreamy, hazy distance. Hennings was a
real artist —not a scene-painter by profession. He had
made a good start in DiLseldorf, but came to Melbourne,
under a delusion, like Summers, the sculptor of genius,
that there was an opening. Summers only got one
chance w'orth having—the Burke and Wills statue. Hen-
nings was luckier, though he had to go out of his higher
walk. Among his last works were the scenery for Miln’s
“Antony and Cleopatra,” and that of “Theodora” for
Sarah Bernhardt, the latter afterwards used for Tittell
Brurie. Mrs. Hennings was an excellent dancer. Hir
appeared seldom. Hans Phillips married their dam: in r.
“ Mosman ’’ and the Enterprise that “ can
always do the thing better ” :
On the evening of the day the dreadful news came out
that the Ma State’s Labor Government proposed to run
two lines of ferries to North Shore, I was trying to read
my paper on one of the homeward-bound arks. All about
me, people with some respect for their eyesight were
folding up their Evening Bloodstains and murmuring
against the sort of illumination provided by the Private
Enterprise co. At last one man groped his way out of a
recess and politely asked a shadowy engine-man if he
couldn’t turn on another volt or two. The engine-man,
whose feelings no doubt had been lacerated by the slight
fall in the co.’s shares, curtly replied that the boat
wasn’t a reading-room. The passenger thanked him and
withdrew. Some months ago 1 was travelling up the
hill in the Government tram which meets the Private
Enterprise boat, when another passenger close by was
handed some such impertinence by a numbered tram
collector. The passenger, without further argument,
produced a pencil and paper and carefully took a note of
the figures on the uncivil servant’s cap. I haven’t seen
that collector since. It is waste of time for the Ferries’
management to try and persuade the public that it is a
desirable monopoly by knocking a trifle off the periodica!
tickets if the public are to get heated remarks when they
respectfully ask for illumination. A heated remark
doesn’t throw any light on the evening paper.
Somebody has dug up a Bible text for the
Wowser to heave at the “ harem ” :
The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto
a man, neither shall a man put on a woman’s garim-n ;
for all that do so are abomination unto the Lord.
(Dent. xxii., 5.)
A bandy volume is the Bible—it hands out ammu-
uitip» all round with such beautiful impartiality.


ic/a
mm
a
r «%
jG;
u** 01 '
mm-
y
Vi
rf,w sjW®>
CtP
t-1
3»* J
L^l&sd_
s 3
<*7V
a>*.
-§“J
V a*
> /'ll
C2> -c
■j>»
f//m
T#r
«<s>>
•»'f.»
r^ss.
iVVf-
| A
* j
h-:-
»
w**
r^r
t 'Vffli! IIP! ISO
r v sPWlkv ran
P_.-
■U
a
o
MT
TJ 1,
w <nrzm?cfrf&/a?
c
CD
r
■ny'mrmrritr^^^ ,
IJM
*-~S j m>~
&J C'/
Cft®
u
P3s
> A
.3?
i£
i«fc
ip
VV
=v§v
C*a
Si
'W.
-T
/
SV
MAKERS OF HIGH-GRADE PIANOS. ;•
“' r P :. ~ . ' . ;;i -'.’ ;. .L. • 1 •- Vl| -■ , ■.4 ‘ . -
Awarded the Grand Prize, and Three Gold Medals, Franco-British Exhibition, London, 1908.
.»• i ■ ■
Visitors to the Coronation will find Beale High-grade Pianos in
the Strand Palace Hotel, the largest and most luxurious hotel in London.
(The above picture is taken from a photograph of the Chief Drawing-room in this Magnificent Hostelry.)
You are cordially invited to call and inspect the New Models of BEALE High-Grade PIANOS.
■■ /C ' ‘C V' Lb.. v i . ; "i I
They are of excellent workmanship, the materials used throughoutare of high quality, and the tone is delightful.
If you cannot call, write for the BEALE CATALOGUE.
<T7
0
u
D
TV
In
U
R p
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George St., Sydney o Doors from g.p.0.) 107 Swanston St., Melbourne
127 Rundle St, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay St., Perth, W.A.
90-92 Queen St,, our new and ONLY Address in Brisbane.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,-
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Travellers Everywhere. Write for Catalogue. 25 Years’ Guarantee.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
Cash or Easy Terms. Repairs ; arid Tuning. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


Head Broke Out, Spread to Arms,
Legs and Entire Body. Itched So
He Would Scratch Until Blood Ran,
One Box of Cuticura Ointment and
Nearly One Cake of Cuticura Soap
Cured Him Has Had No Return.
“When my boy fras about three months
old, his head broke out with a rash which
was very itchy and ran a watery fluid. We
1 tried everything we could but he got worse
all the time, till it spread to his arms, legs
and then to his entire body. He got so bad
that he came near dying. The rash Would
itch so that he would scratch till the blood
ran, and a thin yellowish stuff would be all
over his pillow in the morning. I had to put
mittens on his hands to prevent him tearing
his skin. He was so weak and run down that
he took fainting spells as if he were dying.
He was almost a skeleton and his little hands
were thin like claws.
“He was bad about eight months when we
tried Cuticura Remedies. I had not laid him
down in his cradle in the daytime for a long
while. I washed him with Cuticura Soap and
put on one application of Cuticura Ointment
and he was so soothed that he could sleep.
You don’t know how glad I was he felt better.
It took one box of Cuticura Ointment and
pretty near one cake of Cuticura Soap to cure
him. I think our boy would have died but
for the Cuticura Remedies and I shall always
remain a firm friend of them. He was cured
more than twenty years ago, and there has
been no return of the trpuble. I shall be
glad to have you publish this true statement
of his cure. ,: (Signed) Mrs. M. C. Maitland,
' Jasper, Ontario, Canada, May 27. 1910.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment afford 'the
most economical treatment for affections of
the skin and scalp of infants, children and
adults. A cake of Cuticura Soap and a box
of Cuticura Ointment are often sufficient.
Sold throughout the world. Send to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W., for liberal
trial box of Cuticura Ointment and 32-page
book on treating skin and Scalp eruptions.
A MARVELLOUS ADVANCE IN MEDICAL SCIENCE.
SAMOL,
The New Treatment for Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF OF PAIN.
1 “SAMOL” is an ointment for the treatment of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, etc., affording imme-
diate relief from pain in the above cases, as also in eases
of Neuralgia, Toothache, Sprains and Burns. It further
kllays inflammation and irritation in Eczema, Stings,
Chilblains, Insect Bites, etc.
When “ SAMOL” is applied to a painful part the pain
will be relieved.
1 “ SAMOL" is prescribed in most hospitals in Austria-
Hungary by the leading Medical Professors and Physi-
cians on the Continent.
“ SAMOL” is sold at 3s. 9d. and 6s. per tube, and can
be ordered through all chemists or obtained post free
direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A. GODDARD, 96a
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, or 194 VICKERY’S
CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. p>
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), ltd.
Wk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68b PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
[tj?<
LOOK YOUNG
Dr. B. Allen s oj.s.a.)
Mexican Walnut Stain
Is the only Permanent and really
satisfactory One Solution Hair Stain.
None Genuine without Signature—ALFßED ARDLEY.
ALL CHEMISTS.
&
fyo,
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
WOLSEY
\ FOR UNDERWEAR VALUE \
Wolsey has become the most widely-selling Underwear
in the world, simply because it offers such Value as i
unobtainable elsewhere. No matter what Wolsey Garment you
buy, or where you buy it, it will fir, and wash, and wear in
a way which will make you thoroughly glad you chose it.
'Wolsey' means freedom from chills, better comfort, economy, and satisfaction.
GUARANTEED
ALL PURE WOOL
The Wolsey material is clean,
new wool, soft, elastic, protect-
ive ; no cotton or mixtures.
WOLSEY
REPLACED FREE
IF IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Underwear is guaran-
teed unshrinkable.and replaced
free should it prove otherwise.
Wolsey Underwear is made in many garments for men, women, and children,
and is the finest value for all. When buying be sure to see the Wolsey mark.
Wolsey Pure Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is obtainable from any retailer.
&B
"c
TRADE
MARK
€3
Mint
The Spalding Trade Mark
which adorns Implements used by the Most
Successful Players in all Branches of Sport.
TRADE
ApALßllj
MARK
CRIAt
Ask for Goods bearing this Trade Mark, for, besides obtaining the very best
article, you are also covered by the following Guarantee
“ We guarantee that any article bearing the Spalding Trade Mark will give satisfaction and a reason-
able amount of service, under ordinary conditions and fair treatment.
“ We agree to repair or replace, free of charge, any such article which proves defective in material or
workmanship, provided it is returned to us during the season in which it was purchased.”
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, are the Largest Manufacturers of Sporting and
Athletic Goods in the WORLD.
SPALDING TRADE MARK GOODS: —GoIf, Cricket, Football, Hockey, Baseball, Lacrosse, Basket Ball, Polo,
Croquet, Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, Holler Skates, Lawn Bowls, Indian Clubs, Dumb Bells, Running
bXylNc
TRADE
MARK
a
PPIAT
Shoes, etc.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL THE BETTER DEALERS,
or
A. G. SPALDING & BROS,
of Australasia Ltd. f
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TRADE
m
LD|
MARK
CM*
a. * a. 8004
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
LATFST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
B p rs ELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
as
THE UNDERFEED STOKER.
Adopted by the Victorian State Coal Mine
after exhaustive enquiries. The most economical
Stoker on the world’s market for burning nuts,
slack, or inferior mine refuse.
Sole Agents in Australasia—
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
380 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 267 a Sussex Street, Sydney.
DIARRHOEA
■IMP Freeman's Chlorodyhe never fails to cure even the worst cases of
Diarrhoea. It rapidly stops the pain, dispels all sensations <
'collapse, and restores comfort. In such kindred troubles as Dysentery,
Cramp, Spasms, Ague, and Colic, its value as a home remedy is priceless.
Price 1/11, 2/9, and 4/6 per bottle.
Used by doctors all over the world. Refuse imitations, which cannot .
possess the wonderful soothing and healing powerS i of Freeman’s.
If your Chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle
he can quickly
get it.
TRADE
MARK
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
*
Food
FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible particles. “The Lancet” describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Mamcukstsr, England.
{senger s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
839
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Silk”: The N.S.W., Full Court unloosed what
' looks like bad justice the other day in an appeal by
the Sydney Milk and Ice Co. against a verdict of
Judge Murray. Originally, a woman in a Sydney
suburb, peddling milk in a microscopic way, was
fined £5 and costs for selling watered goods. Seeing
that she sold the goods just as it was received from
the co.—not the cow—she sued the co. for damages,
and was awarded '£B 9s. for breach of warranty
and £ll 11s. for damage to her business. The co. ap-
pealed to the Full Court against this verdict;, it ad-
mitted the £8 95., but: resisted the £ll 11s. as
being bad in law—too “remote” to be calculated.
The Full Court upheld the point as to “remoteness,”
refused any damages except as to breach of warranty
(£8 95. ), and made no order as to costs. But
surely damage to business reputation through pur-
veying inferior or illegal' or murderous goods, which
have been bought and paid for as good goods, isn’t
so remote that it can’t be calculated. Anyhow, a
Judge, and sometimes a jury, assesses the damage
done or supposed to have been done to a person’s
reputation by a libel; and the Judge or jury that
can do that job should be able to do the other one
in its spare time, so easy is it by comparison.
* * * *
Lately the councillors of P’ran (Vic.) invited
tenders for wood-blocking one of the main thorough-
fares, a job that their engineer estimated worth
£l9BO. The lowest tender being for £2240, the
engineer was told to get busy himself. He did so,
and finished the’job for £1728. The difference of.
£512 represented the tribute which Private Enter-
prise expected to collect, from the ratepayers. No
wonder Private Enterprise says day labor is a great
mistake.
* * * *
A Melbourne citizen held the Law off the other
day, and dared it to do its worst, and presently left
it in a subdued < frame ;pf mind, with an awkward
conviction that it had been too precipitate and
couldn’t really do anything. To start with, one of
its minions noticed a man staggering along under a
double wire-mattress. He stopped the staggerer and
inquired the history of the couch. The man told
him to mind his own business, whereupon the intel-
ligent pfficer minded it by running him in. Being
subsequently asked by the-Law to explain his pos-
session of an article “reasonably supposed to have
been stolen,” he curtly repeated to the Law the ad-
vice about minding its own business—or, at any
rate he urged that it might leave his alone until it
had something substantial to build a suspicion on.
It nearly exploded at this; but as he firmly declined
to discuss the wire mattress, and as nobody could be
discovered who had lost such a utensil, the Law
1 frowned and told him he’d better go.
* * * *
The N.S.W. country shop-assistants .are battling
for decent conditions, and- when the public reads
slabs of the, evidence given before the Wages Board
at Wollongong, it probably wonders why thev didn’t
kick before. The head carter at a" co-operative
South- Coast store told a startled Board that he
worked 86 hours a week for 455. (the Uuion is asking
for 555.). The second carter, who, presumably, bogs
in about as long as the first, staggers home with
a munificent 355. Another employee, after nine
years’ experience, toils 53 hours for the same
wages. The head of a grocery and ironmongery
department was overwhelmed with a weekly tW'«
guineas, while the manager of a branch had climbed
up to a dizzy £2 15s. and house rent. Several of
these witnesses were employed by a co-operative
store whose turnover for. the past four months
was over £15,000, and which paid a 10 per cent,
dividend. Altogether conditions revealed in the co-
operative stores gave the shareholders, manv of whom
.are unionists,; good reason fo feel ashamed .of them-,
selves.
“Wealsman”: Why is fruit sold retail by the lb.
in some places and by the dozen in others ? Two
cities, even in the same State, may, and do, adopt
different methods. For instance, Hobart sells its
apples by the dozen; Launceston, 130 miles away,
by the lb. Sydney quotes by the dozen, Melbourne
by weight. New Yorkers buy their table-fruit at
so many cents per .pippin; Londoners, at so many
pence, or “fardins” per' lb. 1 don’t think such
fruit as oranges or pineapples are sold by the lb.
in London or Melbourne or Launceston or anywhere
else, and I never heard of grapes or cherries being
retailed by the ’dozen, even in N p.iv York ;so there
are evidently exceptions to the general rule. In
Melbourne green peas are offered at so much per
lb. ; in Hobart and Adelaide they are invariably
sold by the peck or bushel. In four of the six Aus-
tralian capitals it is customary to purvey fish by
weight; Perth and Hobart fishmongers appear to
get along without scales. (Hobart fish-hawkers
don’t even carry a foot-rule of a tape-measure,
though it is not uncommon to hear ’em yell: “’Ere
y’ are, missis; a yard o’ barracoota f’r sixpence!”)
Isn’t it about -time we had uniformity of trading
terms and methods throughout Australia? The pre-
sent hotch-potch operates in restraint of trade.
Writer, who resides in Sydney when he isn’t living
in Brisbane or Hobart or Adelaide or Christchurch
or on the high seas, would often go to Melbourne
for sixpennorth of pears or similar vegetables if
he knew for certain beforehand how many Bon
Cretins he’d get for his coin. But who, not being
an expert weight-guesser, would risk making himself
[• look ridiculous by buying fruit by the lb. in a
i public place “Twopenee-ha’penny a pound” conveys
no notion to a fellow as to whether he will want
a microscope to find his six-pennorth or a Wheel-
barrow to cart it away.
A captured burglar breathed this in the ear of
a Melbourne pressman: “This habit of sleeping,
I out is playing the deuce with one of the most suc-
cessful branches of our business. You can’t climb
a balcony now with any certainty that you won’t
step on the stomach of a fat and greasy citizen
whose sudden grunt wakens the town. One dark
night- I scaled a St. liilda balcony, parted two
blinds, and clambered over the ornamental iron
work plump into a bed, and a stifled voice said
petulantly: ‘No you don’t, you brute! You can
sleep on the floor if you are not sober enough to
take your boots off.’ At the same moment a foot
planted in the small of my back' shot me into the
brick wall. I returned as I went, barring a swell-
ing the size of a fishball.”
THE CHAMPAGNE DELUSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The object of a Bill passed by the French Senate
on February 16 is to prevent firms from put-
ting up into champagne bottles, and selling as
“champagne,” cheap and frequently “alien” pro-
ducts, the cost price of which is under a franc a
bottle. —News item.
What price the lotion termed champagne
In this far-distant region—
The “wine” of noodles, young and vain,
Which Gwendoline (erst Mary Jane)
Reveres as a religion?
The stuff that squattahs give their pals
Derives, its fizz from chemicals,
And helps to soften Gussie’s brain,
The while he wets his throttle;
What price our Extra-dry Champagne?
It costs one franc per bottle!
The rural “toff,” the city “nob,”
The cad who backs a winner,
The Jew who gets a “skinner,”
The brokers who the public rob,
The price they pay is fifteen bob,
For wine with caf6 dinner —
Imported fizz, from Godknowswhere;
To ’suage his thirst or drown his care,
To please his “tart” or dull his pain,
An unreflecting sot’ll
Pay fifteen bob for Dry Champagne—
Cost price, one franc a bottle!
Did’st ever drag an aching head
From brilliant “social function,”
Where visitors are wined and fed
By caterers who earn their bread
Without the least compunction?
The limekiln mouth, the burning eye
Of wedding guests who long to die
And sleep, ignoring Wind and rain,
Beneath the good old wattle —
These troubles come of choice Champagne ;
Cost price, one franc a bottle 1
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.” "
One of Sydney’s old homes —The
Rangers, at Mosman—possesses an Oswald
Brierly picture painted on one of the dining-
room walls, the full width of the room, and
measuring 10ft. x 20ft. The subject is “ H.M.S.
Rattlesnake in a Squall off Timor,” and was pre-
sumably suggested by a cruise the artist took in
the vessel in 1848 when she was stationed in Aus-
tralian waters. The story goes that Brierly, who
was afterwards knighted and appointed Marine
Painter to Queen Victoria, painted the picture as
a return for the hospitality of Bloxsome, the
owner of the hou.se. Bloxsome, in 1844, bought
40 antes of North Shore ground for £lOO, and
built the quaint old Rangers. Subsequently
Henry Stuart Russell, one of the Darlimr Downs
pioneers, bought it, along with a further 129 acres,
and spent £lO,OOO on the place.
Broken Hill, which revels in the “ per-
sonal” advt., excelled itself recently when the
dailies had an appeal, running to nearly half a
column, from an Adelaide husband. Samples :
My dear wife, your leaving home has broken my heart,
and I feel the most humble creature on earth, and my
constitution is wrecked, and I have been walking the
streets like a beggar... I yield and submit myself to
your mercy, and I faithfully promise that I shall never
displease, and be obedient to you as long as I live; and
as a bond to my promise I will put £5OO more in your
bank, and if I break that promise you can keep that
money end sa.v good-bye to me. . . Your sister [full
name given] has been brought to bed through worry, arid
is in a very critical state of health. If anything happened
to her it would be sin on your soul as long as you live.
Ou receipt of your letter, she forced Bill to come with me
and leave the horses idle. You can ask Bill yours If. ~
My dear Florence, if not on me, have mercy on your
sister,-as she is confined to her bed, and idle horses to
feed, and six childien.to keep, arid Bill is to stop here till
he finds you If you are determined, I can’t force you
to come to me ... For God’s sake, on receipt of this
news, give instructions at the police station or the Aus-
tralian Club Hotel to arrange an interview with both, or
Bill only first.
And the long howl ends with an appeal to em-
ployers, “for the cause of humanity,” to give
advice in ad vertiser’s favor to “the young iady
who entered service last Monday, dressed in black
satin, long-linked muff chain, with cross, fancy
and bamboo bangles, six or seven brooches, and
plenty of rings.”
, Missing: Friends.
WILLIAMS.—The Widow, Children, or Legal Personal
' * Representatives of ALFRED EDWARD WILLIAMS,
who died 4th December, 1882, at Nelson, New' Zealand,
arc; requested to communicate with
Messrs. J. & W. H. DRUITT,
Borough Chambers, Bournemouth, England.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
“The Greatest of all Pantomimes,”
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING’S. 1
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OU R it IS S' GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Criterion theatre. Sydney.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY.,*LTD., SEASON.
A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
First Production in Australia of the Most
Sensational Play of Modern Times,
THE WOMAN IN THE CASE
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
D E LP H I THEATRE
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
The “Most Remarkable, Sensational and Picturesque
Bedroom Drama” S.vdnev has ever seen,
THE BAB GIRL OF THE FAMILY.
As so Brilliaritlv Interpreted and Magnificently Mounted
by the GEORGE MARLOW DRAMATIC CO.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Reserves 4s.
LAST TEN NIGHTS LAST TEN NIGHTS
WLRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS,
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Doors Open On? Hour Earlier.
EVERYTHING NEW.
ALL NEW ARTISTS.
LIZZIE, LIZZIE,
The Blood-Sweating Hippopotamus.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
SPECIAL LECTURES ON WILD ANIMALS FOR
SCHOOL CHILDREN.
ICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-; CHILDREN HALF-PRICE, except
fto.Gallei-y, which is full price to everyone.
■SERVEIr CHAIRS, 4/- BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
H E.
EVERY
LYCEUM
EYENING AT 8.
M ATt bees -Wednesdays Satubdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CPENCERSIHeaTREKOPE G>.
J PICTURES
-» .'f/e/z 3VPZR.IO& TO PLL OTHERS '*
Popular Prices Plaw at Palings.
c
HEAP, Second-Hand 15BreakH.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
P.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The glaciariu m, sydney.
Opposite Railway Station —Where all Id. tramsstop.
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
RIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER,
WEST’S PICTURES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor <fe Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
Mr. R. A. ROBERTS, the Original English Protean Actor,
in a Romantic Pirate Story, “CRUEL CUPPINGER.’*
BLACK and WHITE, Lady Novelty Acrobats.
MISS PEGGY PRYDE, London’s Favorite Comedienne.
Sure Success of one of America’s Leading Specialty
Artists, LEIPZIG, the Incomparable Conjurer.
TOM DAWSON. VAUDE and VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—Bs., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling's.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MISS FLORENCE CROMER CHALLIS,
England’s Clever Young Comedienne.
EUNICE and ZENA, Instrumentalists.
THE ZANFRELLAS, Equilibrists.
PEREZOFFS (7), Comedy Jugglers.
AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —Bs’., 25., Is.
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S “ARCADIANS’'
CO. in
THE BELLE OF BRITTANY
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF THE COMPANY.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
A NOTABLE DRAMATIC EVENT.
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
including H. R. ROBERTS and BEATRICE DAY,
—IN —
RIGHT IS MIGHT
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES-35., 2s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOUSN£.
Lessee and Manager: J. Cl Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ' COMIC OPERA CO.
in a Revival of
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Reappearance of MISS FLORENCE YOUNG.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON announces a TRULY GREAT
DRAMATIC EVENT.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN' MELBOURNE.
MRS. FRANCIS HODGSON BURNETTS Striking Drama,
The Lawn of a To-Morrow.
Presented by
KATHERINE GREY, WILLIAM DESMOND,
and an Augmented and Brilliant Oast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
UIEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES, THE best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiie World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Pici tire Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
p r j ces _6(j. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.fcN.TAIT'S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6
1/-, 6d. Matin6es— Wednesday. Saturday, All Holidays
WIRTHS OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING ATv S
MATI HEES-'WEDNESDAYS. SATURDAYS AND HOUDAYS AT 2 30.
C PENCER'SHTeaTMJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
SJR/Z SUPERIOR ro ML OTHERS •«
Popular Prices ->»- Plata as usual ■
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGH Tat 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER ”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Alack'' Screen, together wiui the |
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cate.
HAVE YOU AN
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH?
IN every part of the civilised world to-day the
Edison Phonograph is pleasing thousands, aVe,
hundreds of thousands, of users, by its incompar-
able rendition of the most famous music and
entertainment. It is the most perfect instrument
for the reproduction of sound, and that is why
the greatest artists, instrumentalists and enter-
tainers prefer to make records for the Edison.
If you do not already own an Edison Phonograph
you should call to-day on an Edison dealer and
ask him to let you hear one. If you do not know
the address of a dealer, write us and we will tell
you that of the nearest and also send complete
lists of Phonographs and Records.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
df
EVERYBODY’S SAFETY RAZOR
VERY CHEAP, yet VERY GOOD
n„Uf AIQ cimi 'l te in metal case, with
VVlJiy -i/5/j directions, and we pay carriage.
Just half the price of the cheapest, yet equa to
the best. Anyone can use it. A cut face is im-
possible. The f ame is hard white metal, rust proof.
The hlnde is finest tempered steel, keen and com-
for use. “ Everybody s”
Ifrarded in America as'" the lady’s razor,’ iM*-_so
fortahle, warranted ready for use.
ensy to us-and so perfectly .safe. There is iioihing
eh an a>‘ ut it except ihe price 15..91. It works
as weii as th > He*. h ilf-Riiinea >a-or. Ext a b ades
four for One Shi linp. UNION CO , 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
The World’s Great Song Book
asdf
QQO Beautiful Songs, Words and Music,Old
6 Time Favorites and Un-tor Date Popu-
larities. Only Three Shillings, post paid
to any address The seme music in sheet
form would cost over £7. Includes Asleep
in the Deep, Close your Dreamy Ryes, Day
i by Day, Excelsior, My It- sary. Would you
£ Care Waltz. Killarney, The Diver, Naza
" reth. Comic and Sentimenta* Songs, Duets
Trios. Marches, Waltz s, Quadrilles, &c.
A lrvinrellous book for the money You should *ret it at once.
THB UNION 00., 299 Elizabeth Street, Mklbournh.
BISTCOUXCTtOn
A Grand Series ol Sixteen Volume* of
Readings and Recitations, in all over 2000
Pages, about 130 Pages (1)1 t 5 inches) id
each Book Many Hundreds of Copyright and
other effective selections.' With this practi-
cally inexhaustible supply a Reciter can
always delight llis audience with “ something
fresh," instead of “ the same old things ” they
have heard so often. Eight PonCO for auy
Book ; Three Books, ; Six Books, 3/-•
The Complete Series of Sixteen Books 7/6- We pay postage.
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Send penny lor list of complete contents.
asd
A GOOD RAZOR PAYS.
The most satisfactory Razor is the one that retains its keen
longest—needs "sharpening- least—and-gives a smooth
shave under all conditions. That Razor is the 6t PLUM.
We are tradesmen who know how to
srive a razor the “shaving edge.”
The “PLUM”
10/6
Have you a Mous-
tache? The Craig
& Aitken Trainer
shapes it nicely.
Worn at night.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All t.lie above Post. Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
RAM
RIFE
PUMPS WATER
AUTOMATICALLY 1
Low in firsfc cost., easy to inst-al, no expense to operate, any capacity desired fori
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc. j
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring: or pond within a mile—Write for Free Plans and Book.
- GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Country Homes Modernised
BY
AIR GAS.
The gras consists of a mixture of atmosphere and
petrol. Atmoslite gras being non-explosive there
is absolutely no danger.
It is far more brilliant, and efficient, than coal-jras,
electric light or any other illuininant, and consid-
erably cheaper.
Atmoslite means ideal lighting at small cost.
ATMOSLITE MACHINE.
The machine is simple and absolutely automatic,
maintaining the light at a steady, even pressure.
The light is unaffected by any varying' atmospheric
conditions. No other machine can offer these
advantages. Approved of by all Fire Insurance
Underwriters’ Associations.
Write for full particulars.
BRANDT BROS,,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LIMITED, Lamphouse,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
QREME LA FRANCE.
FENET LIQUID COSMETIC.
fa
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying- and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is | most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
in<r a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin.
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
' skin. Price! 2/6,
Posted 31- Obtain-
r able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairwdrker,
23 The Block Arcade,
STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DUEUDIN AND SAINSIUJRY, Melbourne.
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Hare
Green
Soles.
THE
(RECIS
ora
TERED)
Hare
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C®- d
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
Don’t Wear a
T russ.
After 30 Years’ Experience I have produced an Appli-
ance for Men, Women or Children that Cures Rupture.
I SEND IT ON TRIAL.
If vou tried most, everythin? else, come to me. Where
others fail is where I have my greatest success. Send
attached coupon to-day, and I will send you free my
illustrated book on Rupture and its cure, showing my
Appliance and giving you prices and names of many
people who have tried it and are extremely grateful. It
is instant relief when others fail. Remember, I use no
salve, no harness, n © lies.
The above Is C. E. BROOKS, who has been
Curing Rupture for. over 30 years.
If Ruptured write to him to-day.
I make it to your measure and send it to you on a
strict guarantee of satisfaction, or money refunded, and
I have put my price so low that anybody, rich pr poor,
can buy it. I send on trial to prove what I sav; is true.
You are the judge ; and once having seen my illustrated
book and read it, you will be as enthusiastic as thousands
of patients whose letters are now on file in my office. Fill
in this free coupon and post to-day.
FREE INFORMATION COUPON.
C. E. BROOKS, 115 a Bank Bldgs., Kingsway,
London, England.
Please send me bv post in plain wrapper your
Illustrated Book and full information about your
Appliance for the cure of rupture. „
NAME j-
ADDRESS ..:
Please write plainly.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand, ‘ A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”


CAIRNS.
The Great Winter Pleasure
Trip to Sunny Queensland
P'ag*
.
r
A ‘
; * v - ♦.*«}
Stf" '
UtM
&
. : :t,£
:■•*>
R 5
ISS .
Wriß
, '.-gi
U-M
~' _e
i j
t ’ * #
SEEN'
THROUGH
A CAIRNS
TUNNEL.
CAIRNS 1
is picturesquely situated, has a health)
climate, and the temperature in winter
seldom falls below 50°. First-class
hotel accommodation at Cairns and
Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be
obtained at a reasonable tariff, and the
fishing at Cairns is excellent. Atrip
to the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North
Queensland should not be missed.
•\ ■- rr^-J
For Fares and all Particulars
.. • apply to .
by Modern
Inter-State
Steamships.
SMOOTH WATER
SPRING-LIKE CLIMATE.
IJp-to-Date and Comfortable
Steamships.
•' >v
L**•?. tr *«: j:' .. e&tpsmsm'JtM
■-
■5-j;
BARRON GORGE.
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows: —
the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs between the
P Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest of the sea trips of Aus-
tralasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands, covered with foliage strange to
southern eyes, and the boat is ev'er rounding headlands, streaming into fine bays and estuaries. The
famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.”
SI
m
m
'
9
m
m
1
il te|E
M
J
V
■1
I■
a
- mm
m :
Mlilil
1
m
REGULAR &
and .ail porta in each
S C?LT» A
C 9 LIMITED -
iRKER«C?i>tn.!?
•PTTLT?
HOWARD SMITH GO. LTD.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO. LTD.
AUSTRALASIAN UNITED STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD


n
i sei
Watch Your Skin Crow Clearer
Using soap and water only is expecting Nature to do too much.
Chaps, rough or red skin, sallowness, blotches, wrinkles and
other unsightly skin conditions result from the presence of ex-
traneous matter which soap and water does not always era 1-
cate. Help Nature, and keep your skin in tone by using
Icilma Fluor Cream
(Gr aseless).
Every day, especially before going out, apply a little of the
cream, and enhance your beauty. Good for preventing
sunburn and freckles.
The native girl reminds you that ICILMA is
the product of a Natural Spring in Algeria.
SAMPLE OFFER. On receipt of 2d. in stamps a dainty
sample of (jreaseless Cream will be sent by
PRICE 2/- Z.
ICILMA CO. Ltd.,
(Dept. D),
139 York Street, SYDNEY.
3 Gets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21 1- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Music, as you like it*,
becomes doubly beautilul when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Soirds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home-one
would charm Yours—Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS ■ - '
ALLAN & CO Prop - Ltd ~ 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
[■M l) i * di £i ii i« w «h;i < !i
$
1
YOU CAN* T LOOK TOO MANLY
In the battlefield of business, and if you lack a moustache, or your present
one is too thin, your appearance detracts from your prestige.
CAPILLARINE
will rapidly produce a strong moustache that will remain with you permanently
A little rubbed on before retiring is all the treatment necessary.
PRICE 10/6 JAR. Posted in plain wrapper to any address in the world.
Have vou a Moustache? The Craig & Aitken Trainer shapes it
nicely. Worn at. night. 2/6 post free.
f 5
*
4>
CRAIC & AITKEN
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
66
VivgrEl
DAY
Si
NIGHT
Wear
An Ideal
Material.
VIYELLA” is an ideal material for
Blouses, Nightdresses, Undergar-
ments, Children’s Frocks, Gentle-
men’s Shirts, Pyjamas, etc. Its softness
means comfort to tender skins ; its dura-
bility means that it will resist severe
treatment ; it does not shrink. It is
hygienic wear, inasmuch as its texture is
such as to keep the body at a normal
temperature while allowing free passage
of air.
The “VIYELLA” name is a guar-
antee of the good qualities of the material.
See it on the selvedge of the cloth.
To be obtained from the leading
Stores in each Town.
Viyella
sdf
Rll2—Fine
Pearl and
Amethyst Set
15et. Gold
Necklet, with
9ot. Gold
Chain, £4 4/-
11102—Handsome Pendant and Prioch,
set with Finest Quality Diamonds in
Platinum and Gold, &05.
Dainty New Neck Jewellery.
HE new Pendants and Necklets are of rare
I excellence, and come in a myriad of dainty
styles, exquisitely set with flawless gems of real
beauty, each true to name. Lovers of good
jewellery will do well to spend a few minutes
carefully viewing this new neck jewellery.
Merit and value are here linked together, so
as to bring quality Pendants and Necklets
within the reach of all.
D 5685 —Fine Pearl and Turquoise Se
15et. Gold Plaque Pendant and Neck-
slide, with Chain, £l2/10/-
RloB—lsct. Gold Pendant
and Brooch, set with Fine
White Pearls nnd Peridots,
£6.
RlO6 —9et.! Gold
Pendant, set
with Fine White
Pearls, 25/-
Rlo7—9ct. Gold
Charm, 6/6.
RlO0 —15ct. Gold necklet:, set, with
Fine White Baroque and Half-pearls,
£7/10/-
Elos—9ct. Gold Necklet,
set with Fine White Pearls
and Aquamarines, £5/5/-
Rllo—lset. Gold Neeklet, set with Fii
White Pearls and Peridots, £4/15/-
Write
for
Illustrated
Catalogue—
free.
Ltd
The Treasure House, Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
Pay
Postage on
Ycur
Purchases.


HOTEL DANIELL
(Latk imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others. - *®
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED.
asd
♦‘THE SALISBURY.’,’
A Lincoln & High
Grade FUR Ff;LT HAT,
Stocked in Light Grey, Medium
15/6
Oj-ey, and Stone Blue, with *
Bands to match, or Black to contrast.
Brim can be tamed down as illustrated, if desired.
BRISBANE,
Townsville, Toowoomba and London.
LvmgTrouble
and Wasting.
Footscray, Victoria, Aus.
Dear Sirs, —After an attack of pleurisy followed by pneumonia I suffered
from debility with much loss of weight, and could not regain strength. The
doctor said I was in a decline and ordered me away. I determined instead to
give Angier’s Emulsion a trial, and I am very pleased that I did so, for the
result has been most gratifying. My friends are greatly astonished at the
improvement in my appearance, and I can honestly and thankfully say that I am
better now than I have been for many years. Ido not wish you to publish my
name, but will gladly answer any enquiries that may come to you concerning
this testimonial. (Name and address furnished privately).
Angier's Emulsion is invaluable in all throat and lung affections ; also for digestive
disorders and wasting diseases. It soothes and heals the lungs and air passages,
promotes normal, healthy action of the digestive organs, and builds up health and
strength. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and agrees perfectly with delicate
stomachs. Of all chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL. CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney,
bJ
IN BANANA LAND
The record rainfall of North Queens-
land was put up recently by Kuranda, at
the back o’ Cairns. Two yards in three
days did the weeping heavens bestow; and
Geraldton, that used to boast about a yard a
month, has turned green with envy.
It’s an ill wind that blows nobody good :
and the recent cyclone and floods up North
have served Port Douglas’s turn. That
hamlet has for years cherished a grievance,
that it and not Cairns—“the mud flat”—
should be the port for the Cairns hinter-
land and the mineral country uevond the
range. Now it is the port. The Cairns-
Ivuranda railroad having been washed away
once more, all mails and passengers are
being taken via Douglas.
The North is spoiling the record of a lot
of dismal prophets. When Premier Dig.
Denham was up at the top end the other
day, he was fed on apples which came from
an orchard at Herberton; and, according to
Dig., who ought to know something about
apples—he comes from Zummerzet—they
were as good as those grown at Stanthorpe,
the best apple-growing district in Banana-
land. And a climate which grows good
apples can generally be reckoned on to grow
good Adams and Eves.
_ Bananaland is trying to make its Univer-
sity something more than a Brisbane continu-
ation school for the sons of the Fat. Northern-
ers are asking the Government to add £2500
to the promised endowment, so that the Senate
may establish night classes and long-distance
correspondence courses. It is practically
settled, too, that Mt. Morgan, Maryborough
and; Ipswich, which have handy workshops,
shall be centres for engineering instruction,
so that the sooty-faced youth need not bolt
from his work to settle in Brisbane,
The luck of Edward Costello, of Thane’s
Creek (Warwick), knocks out even that of
the proverbial Chow. At a recent Land
Commissionei , ’s Court Costello made separate
applications for four portions of Talgai, all
adjoining, and went to the ballot, with a
number of other applicants. He won all
four ballots, and, thus securing 770 acres,
may consider himself a made man. But this
kind of contingency should be guarded
against by legislation. The ballot in this
case has substituted one budding monopolist
for four bona-fide selectors.
Freddy Brentnall, M.L.C., of the Brisbane
Telegraph, provoked huge amusement in
Queensland lately by writing to the Courier
and plaintively adjuring all li-ishmen and
Home Rulers to be true to their principles,
and vote “No” on Referendum Day. Con-
sidering that Ireland, the Pope and Home
Rule have for years been the prime abhor-
rence of the Brentnall-Cowlishaw crowd, this
appeal from Brentnall struck Brisbane as
being the “steepest” thing in a “steep” cam-
paign. It was as though Judkins had been
heard crying aloud to the boozers to be true
to themselves on local option day, and vote
Beer.
It is about time Queensland gave up pre-
tending that its “public” hospitals are main-
tained by private subscriptions, and should
therefore continue to be managed or mis-
managed by private committees. Some five
years ago the Brisbane repairing-house,
which was at that time in the usual finan-
cial straits, “borrowed” £lO,OOO from the
Morgan Government, to tide it over its diffi-
culties. Since then things have gone from
bad to worse, and now Premier Denham an-
nounces an increase in endowment to all
hospitals on a basis of £2 subsidy to every
£1 subscribed. Denham further hints at
giving the Brisbane institution an increase
also in its base-hospital subsidy, with the
unavowed object of helping it to pay off
the old debt to the Government. In other
words, the debt due to the Treasury is to be
met with money supplied by the Treasury.
VERY ACCOMMODATING.
CLARENCE WAYBACK, ESQ. (down for the Show): “'Well, thish ish really very kind of
em. They said they'd (hic) look out f' me and put me right; but I didn't wan?
'em to go (hie) to thish trouble.”
Queensland Anglicans want to know why
the utterances of the Rev. Douglas Price
were dubbed rank heresy by Archbishop
Donaldson, while the same brand of senti-
ments uttered 200 miles further north attract
no episcopal censure whatever. Perhaps al-
lowance is made for the warmer climate, and
the archbishpp gives latitude-for latitude.
Queensland Educational Journal quotes
the following lovely “howlers” taken from
recent local examination papers:—
The German Emperor is called the Geysir.
Everyone needs a holiday from one year’s end to
another.
Liberty of conscience means doing wrong, and
g" ! nteri “ ti ° n is a su^ cn explosion of the mind,
weeks ago. The Bulletin, noting
n l* 16 * neasur J n S monthly rainfalls in
N -Q- b ytaeyardwasunsatisfactory,.onac-
COUQ t M a yard only containing 36 inches,
au ns an d Gerald ton should
adopt the fathom as a standard. The sug-
?u Stl< lu wa , s ma de none too early, as Cairns
be , er da y recorded 42 inches in 48 hours
S
-w«er ne a a ; I ly° a a r s
Rockhampton wool sales are now r practi-
cally a certainty. The local Harbor Board
has sent a representative amongst the squat-
ters to find out their feelings, and the report
is reassuring. Some memoers of the Board
will visit Longreach during Show week, when
Squatterdom has on its best frill, and the
support that would be given to the sales will
then be exactly determined. If, after the
Longreach Show, the members of the Board
are satisfied that they have a guarantee of
sufficient wool to create a market, the neces-
sary buildings will be erected on the town
wharf. And then in its dreams Rockhamp-
ton will see itself more clearly than ever
the capital of a new State. But the dream
won’t come true till there is unification and
reconstruction; and just at present a whole
lot of Rockhampton, like a whole lot of other
places, is misguided enough to think that
unification is the Devil.
“The Prodigal”: Zimmerle and Maurer,
who shore for the Australian championship
recently at Toowoomba, are now shearing at
the Ilfracombe wool-scour. The late rivals
are pulling out of the same pen, and their
highest tellies, lie between 170 and 180 a
day. Livingstone, who is travelling for Dal-
gety’s, visited Ilfracombe and had a yarn
with Zimmerle, and the near future may see
a contest between these two undoubted cham-
pions. Both of them are emphatic on the
point that a big tally for a day may mean
nothing, as easy sheep and the quality of
the work have to be considered. Zimmeile’s
highest tally for a day is 291, Livingstone’s
258, and Maurer’s 248 in Queensland, and
286 in N. S. Wales. Zimmerle is a 16-
stoner, Livingstone turns the beam at 13;
whilst Maurer is an ounce or so under 12st.
Diogenes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a Cynic teacher who existed in a
tub;
He never worried battling for his garments
or his grub ;
His feather bed was built of wood, his coun-
terpane of staves ;
He branded half of Greece for fools, the
other half for knaves.
He saw his fellows, money-mad, go by with
greedy roar,
He only turned within his cask, and did a
happy snore;
He answered them who gibed at him with
many a merry wheeze —-
“The King is lie who careth not,” said old
Diogenes.
He never shut his mansion on a debtor or a
dun,
Ilis door was always open till his little race
was run ;
And if his meal was scanty—just a,morsel of
his own—
In case the poor had nothing lie would give
them half his bone ;
His joy was in the moonlight and the sun-
light newly risen,
And ev’ry tie he thought a chain, and ev’ry
house a prison ;
His wine was in the brooklet and his nectar
in the breeze;
His friendly tub he made the hub of Earth —
Diogenes!
He lived within his barrel, and lie never
found it small;
\vith ease it gave him shelter, and contained
his little all;
In winter it was cosy, and in summer it
was cool.
And it served the local Cynics as a sort of
Sunday-school;
And he who was its tenant was the proudest
man in Greece,
He never feared a Tyrant, and he never
sought to please ;
He cried to Kings and Princes, and their
Parasitic Fleas —
“Away! The Tub sufiiceth for the old
Diogenes !”
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, April 22, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Something like a thrill ran round the af-
ternoon tea cups' last Thursday when an
engagement was suddenly announced between
George B. Gray, eldest son of G. W.
Gray, M.L.C., and Muriel, the little daugh-
ter of Home Secretary Appel. And, as if
these young persons had not supplied enough
subject matter for our tea-talk, they
must next discover that long engagements
me absurd, and accordingly tixed the wed-
ding for the day this letter will walk abroad
in its pink frock. The marriage will prob-
ably take place at Darra, and it is quite
possible that, with a view to keeping up
their reputation for the unusual, the honey-
mooneis may join the Home Sec. rn a cruise
to the jewelled North on the Government
steamer Otter.
Next week it will simply rain orange
blossoms. Miss Joan Hart marries Mr.
Corfe, of Toowoomba, on the 27th; on the
day previous Miss Trot Hudson takes a
similar risk with station-man Moffatt. Miss
Doris de Winton and Mr. Haley (he is a
relative of Mrs. Campbell Praed) follow on,
and another sprig of an old Queensland
family, Mr. Ivory, manager of a western
station, marries Miss Somerville before many
more suns have fallen over the horizon.
At the races, the one theme of gossip was
the engagement, just unofficially announced,
between Cecil Strange Delpratt, manager for
the John Collins firm at Inkerman station,
ana Miss Jessie Persse, youngest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. De Burgh Persse, of Tabra-
galba, Beaudesert. The very popular pair
were born and grew up on neighboring sta-
tions.
Frockmg at Ascot "was by no means smart.
As a matter of fact, the weather had been
so hot that most people had put off getting
their clothes till late, and when the cool
snap appeared the cupboard was bare of
anything but the left-over rags of summer.
So dressy folks mostly stayed at home, or
spent a day by the salt and sodden sea.
The Douglas Price presentation amounted
to a substantial sum, expressed in three
figures, a gold watch and an ornate address.
The good little Rev., Whose sin was that he
dared to think and reason, and 1 thus came
to loggerheads with the Archgaiters, departed
by the Omrah.
The news of the wedding at Nelson, Brit-
ish Columbia, of Miss Gladys Ralfe and Mr.
Holmes A’Court trickles along the cables.
The match produces some queer relation-
ships. The lady who is mother, of the
bride married the Hon. Holmes. A’Court,
who is father of the bridegroom; so that the
bride is step-sister by marriage to her hus-
band, and her step-father is also her father-
in-law.
Winter has been getting his cold-air plant
into working order lately, and the long night
and the short two-step descend upon us arm
in arm. The allied mayoresses are busily
arranging the big hop to take place during
Coronation week, on behalf of the hard-up
General Hospital. I hear also that the Com-
mercial Rowing men are to pull off a similar
event; but somehow the big ball as a popu-
lar form of amusement is getting out of
date, and the small private dance waltzes
more and more into public favor. Many of
these informal toe sprees are coming on, and
it is said that the Vision from Government
House will make her first “ball” appearance
in the State at one of them.
An old Queensland identity passed away
in Hobart last week, in the person of Mrs.
John Forth, a sprightly old lady, whose 76
years bore lightly upon her head. She came
from Wiltshire (Eng.), and remembered this
city in the days when you either journeyed
by bullock-waggon or walked.
Another of the Townsville Allens- —Chris
-—burned himself out in a Sydney hospital
-last week. Samuel Allen founded one of
the most affluent of Northern businesses,
and, though he worked hard, he lived on till
nearly 80. The sons, tremendous workers
of the nervous type, can’t follow in the old
man’s footsteps. Three years ago Sam died
at about 48; Chris, at 46, followed last
week.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Apropos the recent loss of the Yongala,
and the shockingly poor lighting of that part
of the dangerous Bananaland coast, 1 it trans
pires that between Cape Bowling Green
lighthouse and the one on Dent Island, there
is a stretch of 105 miles without a light; to
the south there is another grim 100 miles;
and between Percy Island and Cape Capri-
corn there is a black chasm of 125 miles.


.
a
. •
wmm
S' " ■ MSksa
.
,fc\
.
Swfjrf*
sse-*
fe
'A
(A
U
'
m me.* .
mm
m,;:S
' >
m
■
■
w
*Ks
.
I*
{fU , " v:'#v'
• j
%
fig •* / ■ : '
» > V
?>
. ■""!■■■. ■ ) •
i
■* * ; ■ ,
''[
1% )
im
WHEAT FARMS on
EASY TERMS
TO every man with good red blood in his veins the free, healthy, open
life of the country must stand out in marked and favorable contrast
to that spent amidst the drab and cramped surroundings and
monotonous routine of the office. Many men who are slaves to the desk
would gladly take up land if they had the means to do so, and if they
could avoid the physical hardships of the pioneer. Many would gladly
embark their sons on this career if they could do so at a reasonable outlay
and with a certain prospect of their ultimate success. It is for such as
these that we afford the preset opportunity of acquiring WHEAT
FARMS ON EASY TERMS. A very moderate outlay of capital is all
that is necessary. The blocks we offer now in many instances have
been under cultivation, and the remainder can be made ready for the
plough at an expenditure of about ss. per acre.
Homesteads have been erected in many instances, and tanks and dams
are ready for immediate use.
The reputation of the soil for wheat-growing is famous throughout
the State, and mixed-farming and stock-raising flourish in the district.
THERE IS BIG MONEY IN WHEAT-GROWING, and many
have found it a short cut to wealth and independence. The demand for
wheat never let's up —the market is always asking for more; and if you
work with a will you cannot help but win success.
RINGWOOD ESTATE is amongst the best
of the lahd in the Parkes-Condobolin District,
which produced last year over two million
bushels of wheat, and this season will show a
further increase on that great total. The wheat
produced in this district is of the finest quality,
and is much sought after by flour-millers. The
Estate consists of 17,120 acres of beautiful
chocolate loam, capable of growing an immense
crop. It has been subdivided into 30 blocks of
about 500 acres each. The property is fenced
in rabbit-proof netting, and many of the blocks
are practically complete in this respect.
RINGWOOD is some six miles from Ootha
Railway Siding, by good road, and half-way
between Bogan Gate and Condobolin, the ter-
minus of the line. Some 3500 acres have been
under cultivation. The balance is either open,
park-like land, or is lightly timbered. The trees
have been ringbarked for many years, and the
land can be cleared for the plough for about ss.
per acre. SOME OF THE BLOCKS HAVE
HOMESTEADS, AND ARE READY FOR
IMMEDIATE OCCUPATION.
THE RAINFALL is ample for successful
wheat-growing. Records taken at the home-
stead during the past five or six years show that
the rainfall has averaged about 20 inches. The
Estate is well served with tanks and dams, no
RINGWOOD.
fewer than eleven of the blocks being provided
for in this way.
THE TITLE.— The land is to be sold as
certificated conditional purchase, all conditions
fulfilled, and buyers may convert into Freehold
at any time. You get immediate possession,
and have all the advantages of a conditional
purchase WITHOUT A BALLOT.
The prices of this land as conditional
purchases range from 275. to 89s. per acre;
or Freehold prices, including all moneys
due to the Crown, 465. to 965. per acre.
WHERE CAN YOU GET SUCH LAND
AT SUCH A LOW PRICE ?
OUR EASY TERMS:
Ten per cent, deposit. No further pay-
ment for two years. The balance in 16
half-yearly payments or eight yearly pay-
ments, bearing interest at 5 per cent.,
payable half-yearly.
WHERE CAN YOU GET SUCH LAND
ON SUCH EASY TERMS ?
Read this testimony to
tHe Productive Properties
of tlie Soil s
Mr. W. S. KEAST, M.L.A., of Dandenong,
Victoria, was interviewed recently by Sydney
Evening News reporter, on the question of
Land Settlement. Among other things, Mr.
Keast said :—“ In the Parkes district for
hundreds of miles, around such centres as
Forbes, Bogan Gate, Condobolin, etc., there are
millions of acres suitable for wheat farms. The
country is practically all cereal land, and adapted
for mixed-farming, with sheep-breeding. In
parts of Victoria, where the rainfall is 15 inches
(Ringwood averages 20), under dry-farming
methods we average 16 bushels of wheat to the
acre, and this district should produce more
than that.”
This is Convincing
Enough!
Send now for Plans, Schedule of Prices and
full particulars; or, better still, call and talk the
matter over.
ARTHUR RICKARD § CO., LTD.
We will Refund Railway Fares for Inspection to and from the Estate to all Purchasers
84 B Pitt Street, Sydney
AUCTIONEERS 8 REALTY SPECIALISTS. '


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
for NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw,
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL . £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
i Mki.iumjknr Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
nil Wil]iam-Btreeu
Adkimidh & Erkmanti.k Aoknts: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE;
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN D.
d. Tons.
: Lil ted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
32,000-ton Sreaniets. .Cahines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries;.
S Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
? ■ ? 12 Mamin Plack, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
of ||orth Queensland
s t LIMITED.
i Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
f,, (Subscribed Capital .and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LICKS, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: ..7 P. CANNY.
I Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. 11. LOVE.
Rankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
* RANK LTD.
BRANCHES tlirmighour. QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Ranking Business.
Qank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, UEOKUE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000.000
j. Uncalled Capital £500,000
H Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £804,134
©RANTS DRAFTS
iu.ii Ireland, and other planes.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji; Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
irai.isafcts all other usual nankins' busine.sk
THE.
ierce
LIMITED. (
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
> 'AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127 :
1 ,PAlj)-UP (Slat December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAli OFFICE — George and King Streets, Sydney
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Ksq., I.L. D. ; Ciias. U. M\’tps, Esq.;
{ Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
'V . —
Praspohes throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C mimonwealth,
lieu 1 Zealand, and,all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
* agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. .. £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. 4i3,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman ; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq.; Hon. A. J. O ALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
7 JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, E-q.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £5)9,237 0 0
IJ6|erye Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
W * £756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. r-rnrr-r--tt
jjQen; Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
; 21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The golonial mutual tile
assurance society limited
for
, Mill mil Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, indefeasible.'
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New' South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
£ ~ Directors:
The Hor. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
( The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping,
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord D
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless" installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE /row Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne ;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
XHOS. BROWN & SONS, Lm, Brisbane and Townsville.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
_L Series, IV., V.. VJ. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fa
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 10.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
June 7.
MEDIC and A ERIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling' Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agems in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
f One Class Only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
v by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, <tec., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
% YOUR WINTE.R
HOLIDAY.
QEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
sdf
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £9OOO,
repayable by instalments extending over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on favorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest soale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding' five years on Freeholds or Certificated C. P’s.
and Associated 0. F/s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full partieidnrs and forms of application for loans obtainable nr. any Hranch or Post Otiic e Ajrenc.v, or from
Grown Agents.ml at the Head Office, MOOIiE STHEET. SYDNEY. J. 11. DaVIKS. Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
%
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
The Hon. C. K. MaoKeilar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnckland, Esq.
liichard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Emi.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office— 64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New Soutn Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua if, London 1); and
Agents and. Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WOULD.
■ ■ , - J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells & Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost &, Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. C ntral 2196.
And 605 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
•Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axe.-, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,
£1/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
ALL PURCHASES PACKED FREE AND LABELLED.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capita' Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 U
£4; 420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiikn, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. ... Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massik,
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
, Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W. C. B. Tilky, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bii-cliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Hangar, Esq. ; lion. II. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK. BUR-
GLARY and PLATE-GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
JHE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-et., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O,(XX) 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 0
DiRKCTOits : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice; Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J, H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M‘Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG. Assistant Manager.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL.
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE COOPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
Shipping.
THE AOELAIOE STEAMSHIP 00.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE oo and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PtRIE
Anri GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, April 29 and
May 27
(To Fremantle without
transhipment),connect-
inir with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Allinga, April 29.
S.S. Marloo, May 6.
S.S. Wollowra, May 13.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other iuter-State Companies on ail
services subject to conditions, .vhich can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GANAOIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.— H. N.
Federal*Houlder>Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE/*
11.900 Tons. W. J, Paige, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE * about 30th April
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - „ 4th May
~ ~ ~ MELBOURNE ~ 9th May
„ „ „ ADELAIDE - „ 13th May-
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main’
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied witli fresh provisions,
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES.. ... £49 10s. £l3 13s. £io 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
fTo be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamuhlets. etc., apply to
151 RT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN &CO., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
OILSKINS FOR
SPORTSMEN
Perdriau Oilskins set the standard for all other
kinds. They keep wearers dry, are comfortable
and (five {rood service. As we manufacture
the'-e {roods ourselves, we not only guarantee
their quality, but also the value.
Here are two {rood lines :
Our “ OILCLAD ” Oilskin is of medium weight
stout calico, double throughout, 11/3.
The “CATARACT” Oilskin isof light, good calico,
with hygienic loose check lining, 18/6.
Order by mail if you cannot call. We pay
carriage on country orders. State height and
easy chest measurement over clothes, so as to
ensure a correct fit.
Write for a free copy of our Oilskin Booklet.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods.”
270 George Street, Sydney.
npHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
1 Series. IV.. V.. YI. Packet of Twelve, Cd;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.


w EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON).
JJ The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Cable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.”
tariff Booklet gratis 1
at office of this paper.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET, Opposite Westminster
■ Abbey and the Houses
LOruDulni, England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
' Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooirls
from 5/6 per day, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.-
GEO. J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
£lOOO
IN PRIZES
£lOOO
Value
£5OO
First I
Value
£5OO
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a Purchaser for same at. the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
SECOND: Value £lOO. THIRD: Value£so.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’
Great Art Union.
55th Year—Oldest and Most Popular—ssth Year
Proceeds in aid of the Hospitals
and Public Charities of Australia.
’ Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers
will be posted to any person ’sending an
addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaffixecl.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
April 29, or send Postal Note. P. 0.0., or.
stamps with exchange added, direct to the
Representative, 231 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, at once for tickets, and secure a
chance in this Great Art Union. 22 for
£l, 11 for 10s , or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne
before the date of drawing, May 16, 1911.
Lest You Forget,
Buy To-day.
THEO. W. HE'.DE, Representative,
231 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Vic.
i
v
r»
4.
r
CD
tyj
&
' ■ -
(y
Cy
: 4
&
oi
s?
THE ONLY
TYRE ; '
BUILT ora
./cif;i\Tinc\
PRINCIPLE/
/ILVERTOWr
j RUBBER C
279 GEORGE / r
/yd Key
asd
UNDER VICE-REGAL.
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereaph Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/-set. Fringes from
Telephone 213 S Central. COMBINGS MADIt UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
THE ACCORDEON for
Country Residents.
fas
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
Tt has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Itotary Celeste Stop.
PrifQ O i
r llwC Xf I <
Postage to any Address
ill Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of lteeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/G extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/>
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
9
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons*
Infants’ Powders
for the
Little Princes and
Princesses
" during the time of
teething and for fret-
fulness and the many
ailments common to infancy
Powders Recommended by n.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF HOHENLOHE.
VON-REUX LEBEN, Marshall of the Court to H.R.H. the Duke of Saxe-Coburg,
Duke of Albany, Winter Palais, Gotha, writes“ With thanks for your sending Infants’
Powders, I have the honour to let you know that the Powders are recommended
by H.R.H. The Princess of Hohenlohe, for my own children."—January n, 1910.
ASHTON & PARSONS’
INFANTS’ POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless—they cool the gums—comfort the child produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep-render teething quite easy—prevent pain and disorder—
are pleasant to the taste—are mild and gentle in action—may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe —and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
df
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
asdf
ge> Ashton & Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, 1/1J ; 60 Powders, 2/9;
100 Powders, 4/6. To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS: ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND.
The perfect edge, protected blade
and “no stropping ” of the Gillette
Safety Razor make Gillette shaving
exceptionally clean, safe and easy.
British made and sold everywhere. Write for “ Hints
on Shaving,” sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd.,
17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
asd
YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A
* SMOKE’ IS TILL YOU’VE
tried MY CIGARS
aum.
I'M going to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australasia —and the most confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too, <
Talk about joy! Why, to sit round a camp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching to your mates,
each of you smoking one of my Cigars, joy isn’t
in it! It’s just simply bliss!
As the yarns go round, the blue smoke
curling upwards in a fragrant clqud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering on your
lips—l tell you, you'll spend some of the
happiest hours of your life.
f
Letters are coming in to
me in shoals from all over
Australasia, praising up my
Cigars. Take one I've just
got as I write this, for in-
stance—it’s from a chap op a
cattle station up in Northern
Queensland. He writes:—
“Those DIADEMAS Cigars
of yoursare just alright. I’ve
always smoked a pipe—but
no more. Not that I'vegiven
up pipe-smoking altogether;
but when I want a real smoke
—somqthing rich—l light,up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment."
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
you may select.
Send for 100 of any of ,
the following: —
Per 100.
Imperials - - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - - 22/6
Gran Bouquets - 20/6
Infantas - - 17/6
Levucas - - 15/6
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver promptly,
postage or carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoko 5 op 6 of them, and if they’re
not superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’ll return every penny of your money—no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked.
My Cigars are made from the very finest
mild, rich mellow. Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
leaf. ,The Cjgars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer ; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There sno “catch” about this offer—it's just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Eank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne. He’ll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you 11 make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dai k colors.
Mr Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
asdf
Zaw Po/ncj
iS- /nventorj
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav t.o ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing’ your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the neceS-ary instructions for
further procedure. ’ ■* ,
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALL-IN AN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED.
LIVE Representatives to control exclusive
territory for manufacturer’s line of Hiirh.
jjrade Soaps aiui Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices..
100 per cent, to 200 pir cent, profit. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U.S.A.
Established 15 Years.
a Jf Australian’s Two Hands —I HE DONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can's
do without either, and they both cost the same.


\WMO
No Mother shouM 'oe without \t
sewt ow vec\uest
&
m
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
15-17 Market Street, Sydney
PEBECO
does far more than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, economy
in dental expense and better health.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Sole Agent-
G Arnold 6 °’ Connell St., Sydney
V. AIIIUU, (Wholesale only).
“THE HEART OE THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Xlic
Famous Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising- Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to fret more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OE MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
S~ JACOBS
OIL
Cures
IRHEUMATISM
g and Bodily Aches and Pains.
Of all Chemists and Stores
FOR
RHEUMATISM
44
in
iii ii
w\
1
s
m
U'M
au w
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
r-2,\
WHENEVER you see a bear with
tinent on his back, think of THE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
a Con-
LONE
PI LLI/IDDS
7
1 W<?„,
•Mgm
'
IB
3505 \*
50 years ago the name of Alcock was practically unknown—to-day
it is synonymous with billiards. Why ?
They have always maintained that high standard of excellence,
so scientifically and accurately constructed their tables, cues, etc., that
it is no wonder that the popularity of Alcock Tables has grown so
much.
Gray and many other prominent players have made many of
their largest breaks on an “ Alcock," and are therefore prompt to
proclaim these tables as perfect in every respect.
We make them in all sizes and styles—the “ Bijou ” table is a
special favorite for the home.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue—we supply every billiard
requisite.
ALCOCK 8? CO. Pty. Ltd.
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Baker Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington. ISS Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St.,
Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. n
FLY CATCHERS.
BEST MANUFACTURE, TWO SYSTEMS.
FIRST-CLASS FIRM WANTED FOR GENERAL AGENCY FOR AUSTRALIA.
Only firms guaranteeing- certain introduction of articles on a large scale ; therefore, thorough
acquaintance with the conditions of the branch essential. ’
LARGE PROFIT CERTAIN OWING TO EXCELLENCE OF MANUFACTURE.
BEST QUALITY GUARANTEED.
offers, address £415 HAASENSTEIN g YOGLER A.G., BERLIN, W.S.
m
JOSiAH WEDGWOOD & SONS, LTD
Registered Trade Mark, “WEDGVTOOD.
Established at Etruria, England,
1760 A.D.
as Manufacturers of
CHINA, EARTHENWARE, TEA
and DINNERWARE, TOILET-
WARE and ARTISTIC POTTERY
of all Kinds.
IMPORTANT.— All our Goods are
branded “ WEDGWOOD” only. Anv
addiiion such as “& Co.”means you
are not buying “ Wedgwood.”
Sole Agrents for
Australasia—
WM. HODGE & SON
91a York Street, Sydney: and
29 Elliott Street, Auckland.
Every pen has a point.
Here are eleven points you
ought to remember:
The first is the Onoto fills
itself in a flash from any
ink supply.
The second is it cannot
teak.
The rest are “To get an
Onoto now” for posses-
sion is nine points, says
the law.
Get an Onoto pen, and know wbat
writing comfort really is.
Your own pen, suited to your hand,
wherever you may happen to be.
Onoto
Self-Filling • •
Safety Fountain M wll
Price 12/- and upwards, at all
Stationers, Stores, Jewellers, Ac.
British made by British labour.
Booklet free on application to Thos.
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 195 Runhili
Row, E.C., or the Australasian Repre-
sentative, Norman Baker, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Important. —For those who require a.larger
pen with a very fiexib.e nib, a special m del
the new G—has been put on the market.
It is exceptional value f r the money. Try
this new G at your stationer’s .
Always use ONOTO INK-the best for
fountain and all other pens.
1
I
MILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ Length, 12 Inches.
/ ” POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkcand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
fMentir n Thk Bullktin.1- [4
TRBUCH6TS
er-
/ DIURETIC V
HDMY&BMM'
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
of the:
URINARY
ORGANS
iM
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TO/NIC
Obf&mdb/e <?// /sfs
r 8 CIARTON,HODGSON &C? I/T? I
Sole Australasia Agents. 73 YORKSTSYDNEY
“PotPourri”
stands
for
Quality
“ POT POURRI ” PIPE TOBACCO—
the highest product of the tobacco-
blender's art. 40Z. tins, 2/* ; 8oz.
tins, 4/= ; 8/« per lb.
“POT POURRI” always the same,
always enjoyable.
Clients in country Or other States
ORDER NOW, and it will be posted
FREE by return, with Catalogue which will
interest you.
A. A. MARKS
Sole Agent, 376 George St.,
Sydney, N.SIW.
“ mHE Australian thinks in Continents,because
I he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.


The Elite
Eau de Cologne
/*Sb
• Mirk's*
FIDELITAS
"iJ4ii£siil. ■
\s
J. $V
K
n
yf'i .
F.WOLFFaSOHN
•Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
everybody can use it.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s. p^ stec j Carpets, Canvas* Blinds, Tarpaulins'
(Awl, 2 needles,
z reel cotton.)
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
asd
I Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
. repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
lis the " Awl-you-want,” Threats frofn the
'reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight. *
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 28. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
Sd., post free. Needles (stput or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
MAR NOVELTY CO . 228 Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE! DAZZLER-
ELEct
Best Pocket Lamp on the market. Instantly available-
press the button and a brilliant light'floods forth. Can’t b'ow
out; no smoke, no oil*! fio matches. Powerful simple battery,
can be re-charged with water. Strong case, fits the hand and
fits the pocket. A wonderful demonstration of the every-day
utility of electricity, as light L quite safe near gunpowder,
jjas, naphtha, etc. A novelty, and good fun—may be used
in a hundred mirth-provoking ways. Fitted with new 2-celh
battery (haying 6 times the life of the old style 3-cell) and
new metallic filament lamp (giving a brighter light on less
current than the old carbon lamp). Lamp, complete. 65.,
post free. Extra cells when required, is. gd. ; bulb lamps to
fit, is. 9d., post free. Scarf-pin lights, to attach, 3s. 6d. Send
postal notes.
STAR, NOVELTST CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
fa
“KURLO”— Hair-Curling Fluid. Beautiful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo ” produces
most natural-looking: waves or curls in a lew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog,
r. . sea air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for Ladies’, Gent.’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
2S. 6a., post free, in plain wrapper. American Toilet
Agency, Box 166 G.P.0., Melbourne.
&
" GRO-A-MO ” forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, 25., post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
with 4 months
MedlcaUr, ilza
3i ioctae* loo;,
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note 10s. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
■>-11
IN POSITION i
(INVISIBLE) $
deafness
And HEAD NOISES Relieved bv
Using WILSON’S COMMON-SENnE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices fated and medical skill gaveno
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible ;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper
STAR NOVELTY 00., > 29 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
PUBLIC CAUTION
When asking for PHOSFERINE see that the article
you get is the genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name
which may be offered from interested motives. The
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON
sdfa
The Royal Example
sdf
Phosferine it used by the Royal Families of Europe,
which, ia plain language, means that every user of
Phosferine knows and feels that this famous Tonic is
recommended by the greatest living Physicians.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal Residence in which PHOSFERINE
is not used and favourably spoken of.
PHOSFERINE
THE GREATEST OF ALL TONICS
No other medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring shattered constitutions
and in giving back to the prematurely aged new life and
energy. It is a proven remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous
Debility, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion,
Loss of Appetite, Lassitude, Faintness, Brain=Fag,
Headache, and all disorders consequent upon a reduced
state of the nervous system.
asd
Imitations of Phosferine
are similar only in
name. Insist upon having the genuine
Phosferine the kind that is supplied
by Royal Command
Remember.
fa
To the British Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Spain
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.M. the Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. I. H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russ ; a
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
The Imperial Family of China.
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the world.
U?he Genuine Phosferiqe is sold by all Chemists Stores, etc., in bottles, 1/- and 2/0*
The 2/6 size contains nearly foun times the 1/- size.
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
sdf
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS ;
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
17 O’Connell St M
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application, A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Macmillan’s
MEDICAL
WORKS.
COMPLETION OF THE
NEW EDITION.
A New System of Medicine
By Many Writers.
A New Edition, edited by Sir CLIFFORD
ALLBUTT, K.C.8., M.D., and
HUMPHRY DAVY ROLLESTON,
M.A., M. D. Medium Bvo, in Rox-
burgh Binding, gilt tops.
Volume IX. (concluding the work).
DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 25/- net.
Volume I.
Prolegomena and Infectious Diseases.
25/- net.
Volume 11.
Second Edition. In Two Parts.
Part I.: Infectious Diseases (con-
tinued), Intoxications. 25/- net.
Part 11. : Tropical Diseases and Ani-
mal Parasites. 25/- net.
Volume 111,
General Diseases of Obscure Origin.
Diseases of the Alimentary
Canal.—Diseases of the Peri-
toneum. 25/- net.
Volume IV. In Two Parts.
Part I.: Diseases of the Liver, Pan-
creas, and Ductless Glands. 25/-
net. -
Part II.: Diseases of the Ear and
Throat. 25/- net.
Volume V.
Diseases of the Respiratory System.
—Disorders of the Blood. 25/=
net.
Volume VI.
Diseases of the Heart and Blood-
Vessels. 25/- net.
. Volume VII.
Diseases of the Muscles, the Tro-
phoneuroses, Diseases of the
Nerves, Vertebral Column, and
Spinal Cord. 25/- net.
Volume VIII.
Diseases of the Brain and Mental
Diseases. 25/- net.
The Lancet. —“ A work which must undoubtedly
rank as a foremost treatise on the scientific medi-
cine of to-day. It contains contributions from
those whose qualifications for the task imposed on
them are of the highest order, so that the reader
can feel certain to find in its pages the most recent
as well as the most valuable information that
exists on these matters.”
A System of Gynaecology
By Many Writers.
Edited by Sir CLIFFORD ALLBUTT,
K.C.8., M.D.; W. S. PLAYFAIR,
M. D., LL.D., F. R. C. P.; and
THOMAS WATTS EDEN, M.D.,
F. R.C.P. Second Edition. Bvo, 25/-
net.
A Manual of Medicine
By Various Writers.
Edited by Sir W. H. ALLCHIN, M.D.
In Five Volumes.
Volume I. — A Complete Handbook to
Specific Fevers and Tropical
Diseases.
Volume ll. — General Diseases (con-
tinued) : Diseases caused by Parasites ;
Diseases determined by Poisons intro-
duced into the Body ; Primary Perver-
sions of General Nutrition; Diseases of
the Blood.
Volume 111. — A New and Complete
Manual of the Diseases of the
Nervous System.
Volume IV. —A Complete Manual of
Diseases of the Chest.
7/6 net each.
Volume V. — Diseases of the Digestive
System and of the Liver;
Diseases of the Peritoneum and
of the Vessels of the Abdomen ;
Diseases of the Kidneys;
Diseases of the Ductless Glands.
10/- net.
A Manual of Surgery
By C. STONHAM, F.R.C.S.
In Three Volumes.
Volume I. —General Surgery. 7/6 net.
Volume ll. — lnjuries. 7/6 net.
Volume 111. —Regional Surgery. 10/6
net.
To be obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


TROUT TACKLE!
We are the LARGEST and LEADING Wholesale
and Retail Distributors of Fishing
Tackle in Australia.
We have Just Opened up a Magnificent Range of New Season’s Trout Tackle. We can supply you Cheaper and Better than any other House. Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
No. 2. —SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lift, and 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, best fittings, lock joints, etc., £4/4/-
THE M.S. SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, best fittings, £2.
No. 4. —SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 101 ft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, best winch fittings and snake rings, bronze mountings, 25/-.
No. 8.-SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, snake rings, welted ferrules, solid fittings, 22/6.
No. 9.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 101 ft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, finely finished rod, 30/-.
No. 10S. -SHORT-JOINTED SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, 101 ft.,
5 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, solid reel plate, double-brazed welted
ferrules, 21/-.
No. 18.-GREENHEART TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, lock joints, graduated winch fittings, 25/-.
THE M S. GUINEA GREENHEART ROD, 101 ft, and llift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed winch fittings, snake rings, stained olive
green ; splendid value, 21/- ; other rods from 7/6 to £7/10.
M.S. PERFECTION TROUT REELS, with tension screws and con-
tracted drum; the best Trout Reel on the market; 3in. 25/-•
3Jin.. 30/- each. ’ ' ’
M.S. VENTILATED EBONITE BACK ROTARY CHECK REELS,
with wire drum for rapid winding; 2£in., 13/6; 2}in., 15/6; 3in.
17/6 each ; other reels from 2/- each. ’
J
M.S. PERFECT COLLAPSIBLE TURNOVER TROUT NET, all of
the very best quality and highly finished, 17/6; other complete
Landing Nets from 3/6 each.
are always pleased to receive Reports
from the various Trout Centres.
TROUT LINKS.
We carry the finest assortment of Trout. Lines to be found anywhere.
“KINGFISHER” PLAITED SILK LINES.
Highly Waterproofed.
30yds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 7/6 No. 2, 8/6 No. 3, 10/- each.
40yds., SinjrleTapered .. No. 1, 10/- No. 2, 10/6 No. 3, 12/- each.
30y«15., Double Tapered,. No. 2, 10/ No. 3, 11/6
40yds., Double Tapered.. No. 1, 11/6 .No. 2, 12/6 No. 3, 13/6 each.
42yds., Double Tapered.. 4, 22/6 No. 5, 25/- No. 6, 27/6 each.
“PERFECT” WATERPROOF PLAITED SILK LINES.
Splendid level lines, made exclusively for us.
No. 40‘ .. .. 25yds., 2/6 50.yds., 5/- each.
No. 30 .. .. 25vds., 3/- 50yds., 6/-each.
M.S. WATERPROOF THREAD LINES.
Made from best Thread, and waterproofed b.y a new process.
No. 60 .. 50yds., 1/- No. 40 .. 50yds., 1/3 each.
No. I.—PALLEY’S CAST BOOKS, with parchment pockets, 4/-each.
No. 2.—JAPANNED ROUND CAST BOXES, 1/6 each.
No. S.—ALUMINIUM ROUND CAST BOXES, very light, 2/- each.
NO. 3.—TAN CANVAS FLY BOOKS, sin„ 2/6 each.
No. 6-BEST QUALITY PIQSKIN FLY BOOKS, with xylonite leaf
fitted with 119 Spring Clips, 8/6 each.
Other Fly Books from 1/- to 17/6 each.
No. 1.-BEST QUALITY JAPANNED EYED FLY BOXES, fitted
with Steel Spring Clips, mounted to xylonite.
51 Clips, 4/6 ; 85 Clips, S/6 ; 119 Clips, 7/- each.
No. 3.—LOCH LEVEN EYED FLY BOX, fitted with Steel Spring
Clips, 2/- each.
SPINNING HEAD TROUT FLIES, 1/6 and 2/3 each.
ROUKE TROUT SPINNERS, 9d. each.
RINGED DEVONS, lin. and 1 Jin., 1/4 ; l£in. and lfin., 1/6 each.
BEST QUILL PHANTOMS, lfin., 2Jin., 2fin., 2/-each.
FISHING BROGUES, made of Good Quality Leather, with Canvas
Uppers,-all sizes, 22/6 pair.
Trout Casts, Creels, Spinners’ Gaffs, Bags and sundries in endless
variety.
For a comprehensive description and illustrations of all goods, see
our “Australasian Fishing Tackle Catalogue ’’—the finest book of its kind
ever published—a copy of which will be posted you immediately upon
request.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
“THE House That Sells the Best Tackle,”
Head Depot—
Hay market, Sydney, n.sw.
Schute, Bell & Go.
—i limited.
Woof Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Qupy. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head rff the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
T? ever /P ersol V s ending in the Corns ct Eolution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of J
1 FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder : g
, b y the- enormous demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
1911 h SerL f s ad w rtlSmS VT th^ e0bje0fc . 0 - maklnS our name m3re widely known, and to intro duce our
, n u We b 7 this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
PICTUReVoST CARDS ab ° Ut US t 0 y ° Ur friends ’ the extraordinary value of <our FINE ART
. . ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS .'
±ill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C.R:S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A,S RL A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co. hunter-
street. Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the BankofNSW
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for o /ft
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards and if
your solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask’vou to
WE P rTT h A% r AhTPp o *l y T “"fv for sbowirl S our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
UA i^ A^ T ( EE thls Competition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (Bank N.S. W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 103 correct answers hav! be>n received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct ais vers i i the order in which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO. 3 sftall
Should your solution reachui before the closing date, an 1 be correct according to our condition* ..j
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lad v't nr
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize. y 01
'" h “ 1 fom *" r,h “
FINE ART POST CARD CO., ~L Y^ T v B,:ET ’
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding-
Signed
”
Address
Date
Congo Roofing is a tough,
pliable water-proof felt that
will stand any amount of
wind and weather. It can
be laid by unskilled labor,
and with painting at intervals
of four years, will give ten
years of faultless service.
Nails and cement are sup-
plied free of charge. Each
roll contains 218 square feet.
Sample and prices on request.
Congo Damp Course is a
tough felt somewhat similar
to Congo Roofing, which is
immune from deterioration
by dampness or acids. It is
used for lining the exterior
foundations of buildings to
exclude dampness and ver-
min. It is made in various
widths and is easily applied.
It is the most economical
kind of underground water-
proofing.
AGENTS Noyes. Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney ; ffives Bros. (Prop.), Ltd., Melbourne ; Brabant & 00.,
Brisbane ; Walter Reid & 00., Rockhampton ; ijlarrold Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri
& Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth • William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobart, Tasmania.
_____ ' .a
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Blatk).
LUTETIAN
CREAM.
For all kinds of Brown
Leather Boots and Shoes.
Has a world - wide reputation.
Made in light and dark colours.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated [1
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON LID., LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Od posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, #nd all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History 1 of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu; 9d and IV 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is Od.
-
H
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. K. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FUEE FltOM TECHNICAL TEEMS, and shows up Human
Nature asj it. exists, llereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of vouny and old, but auout
which they feel a delicacy in consulting-their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
gpr- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. H
GIPSY FOKTUN E IFGLIJS ; G j
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is Gamblers’ Sftoteifs- and How to
Win at Cards, Is 31. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post-. How to Vami> ox Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os Gd.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own 'Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
*S*U'lwmwowu : Every Man His Own Schoolm aster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements oe Social
Science, 3s (id. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, 1 s 3d. THE Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,-
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s (>d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Year s .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
. ■ • . . • • ' ■- - ■•■To'-. .
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
*:• ; :
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write lor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui*, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nkw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Mileord’s Mid-
week's Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court oe England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus/, leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s,Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted, The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY..


Beautiful LIZETTE PARKES
EXTOLS
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
MISS LIZETTE PARKES is an Australasian Favorite. Her career is a triumph of
both beauty and brains. She recently won two beauty competitions in New
Zealand —one in Christchurch (a beautiful gold bangle), and the other in Wellington
(a silver jewel case, which was presented to her by Sir Joseph and Lady Ward). Her stage
career has been a singularly versatile and brilliant one, with the J. C. Williamson and
Meynell and Clarke firms. At present she is with the Hamilton-Plimmer-Denniston
Co., and is greatly delighting her admirers, particularly in the sweet character of Sim-
l
plicity Johnson in “Lover's
Lane.” New Zealand loves
Miss Parkes best as Peter
Pan—a r6le in which Aus-
tralians have not yet been
fortunate enough to see her.
“At the close of ‘Peter Pan’
at the Opera House,’’ said
the N.Z. Tjmics (28/8/To),
“ Miss Parkes had to re-
spond to the record number
of 12 curtain calls.” Re-
specting Miss Parkes in the
same role, the N.Z. Triad
said : “ She was a dearly
loved Peter Pan. She im-
pressively had the proper
spirit, the fairy grace, the
melody of voice, the lissom
feet.” Congratulating itself
on its foresight, the Sydney
Bulletin just recently said :
“Some years back The
Bulletin prophesied a big
future foy clevfcf Lizette
Parkes, and the prophecy is
materialising daily.” In the
following letter, Miss Lizette
Parkes points the way to per-
fect freedom from Coughs
and Colds to all sufferers
from Chest Complaints.
MISS LIZETTE PARKES (from a photo).
Sheldon Drug Co. Lid., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l am writing to tell you what a strong advocate I am of Dr.
Sheldon's New Discovery. It is the only thing that does me any good when I
have a bad cold and cough, or when my throat feels sore or strained. During
the fast two years I have used it on numerous occasions, and always with the
best results. It is an excellent remedy, and I never feel safe to start on a trip
without having a bottle of it in my bag.
With verv best wishes for “ New Discovery
I am, sincerely yours, (Sgd.) LIZ KITE PARKES.
D? Sheldon’s
NewDiscover\
OUG
AND
OLDS
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in allot Che larsrest and most, successful >' in k s in
and hv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Btreet, Chicago, U.S. A.
•RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills (p, O intmeni
A TRIAL of HOLLOW AY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning'» Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy* ;
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
. . .. etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Descent of Gadsbad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GADSBAD was tired of everything.
Gadsbad was a successful solicitor
with a nice, extravagant wife and a
handsome, extravagant daughter; and on his
50th birthday the fact struck him that he got
nothing much out of life for himself but a lot
of hard toil. He was not a brilliant man,
what success he had attained was due to
steady, conservative reputation and incessant
attention to his work. A lot of P^P 1 ® .“j
eluding his own family— were under the im-
pression that Gadsbad’s work was all he
wanted in this life or the next; whereas as
a matter of fact, the back of his brain was a
library of unfulfilled holiday dreams which
had been accumulating from the tar-back,
dusty year when lie had started piactice.
When a man or a machine goes too long
without a rest, the flesh or the steel takes a
rest of its own accord. So, in spite or his
grim determination to keep on, Gadsbad teit
that his grip on things was relaxing. He
realised that he was on the edge of some
sort of abyss, and that it would only take
a very slight push to send him over the
edge. He walked along the street thinking
about it, and, when a whining voice asked
him to buy a box of matches, he said No
roughly, and pushed on.
“Only a penny, boss!”
“No, I tell you !”
“Well, give’s a copper!”
Gadsbad stppped and looked angrily at the
slinking beggar at his elbow. “Why should
I give you anything?” he demanded. I
work hard for my living.”
The beggar shuffled and muttered some-
thing about having no work to do.
Gadsbad sneered. “ You don’t want work,
my man. Don’t tell me you want work.”
“Oo said I did? I said I ’adn’t got no
work t’ do!”
“You’re pretty frank, my friend,” said
Gadsbad. “Aren’t you ashamed of your-
self?”
“No!” answered the able-bodied vagrant.
“I don’t see no reason w’y I should be_! I
.don’t see w’y a man should work f’r ’is livin’
if ’e can get it without. S’pose you ’ad ten
thousan’ a year, would you work?”
“No, I wouldn’t!”
“Well, then, you’d be a loafer too if you
could. Buy a box o’ matches, Boss!”
But Gadsbad was not content to let the
.discussion drop at that point. He told the
man to follow him into a dingy hotel in a
small street close by, and, ordering a pint of
beer, called for a whisky and soda himself,
and attacked the vagrant as to his views on
life. , <
“Why don’t you work?” he inquired.
“Becos I’m no good at it, an’ I ’ate it!”
“And are you content to go on like this?”
“Yes, this sorter life soots me better’n
work. Work is ’arder t’ me than bein’ called
a dirty blackguard an’ a loafer, an’ gettin’
run in now and then, an’ ’avin’ t’ doss out.
I ’ate worry an’ bein’ bossed about; I carn’t
stan’ it! This is easier than bein’ re-spect-
able once ye’ve got used to it.” The vagrant
took a long pull at his beer, and wiped his
mouth on his dirty sleeve.
Gadsbad glanced at him with disgust.
“Were you ever respectable?”
“Yes, I was,” said the man defiantly, “but
I got tired of it. ’Ad a little grocer’s shop
an’ a good, naggin’ wife. I was 15 year try-
in’ t’ make up me mind t’ clear out. I took
five quid one day and left ’er. Useter ’avh
black fits now and then f’r a year or so;
useter worry about ’er an’ the’ little ’ome com-
forts, me friends, an’ so on. Me pride died
’ard, too! It useter ’urt me at first when
pleecemen pushed me about ’sif I was rub-
bish. I wasn’t quite rubbish then... But I
am now !... Oh ! it all took time ! Y’r carn’t
drop down t’ this way o’ livin’ all at once’;
it’s almos’ as ’ard as workin’ up if a man ’as
any pride in ’im. An’ I ’ad pride! I let
meself go, an’ w’en I found meself wantin’
t’ go back I fought agin it. I’m right down
now' —down as far as I can go. I ain’t man-
aged t’ forget everythin’—wish I could.. .Oh !
but I’m right outer that old, frettin’, worry-
in’ life —or underneath it. I don’t care about
nothin’, and I worry about nothin’ —what’s
th’ use? S’pose I gets sick, eh? Well, wot
if I do? Ain’t ther’ plenty o’ big, lazy
Johns as will wheel me t’ th’ ’orspital, an’
won’t pretty nurses with their noses in th’
air look after me? What are they there for,
eh? It’s a lot better’n graftin’ y’r soul-case
out, an’ worryin’ yerself almos’ mad tryin’
t’ scrape enough tergether t’ pay a doctor’s
bill. Oh! I know all about that! I was
re-sp‘ectable once, an’ paid me way like a
honest man. But th’ strain of it broke me !
. . , I carn’t tell yer, but I ’ad a lot o’ trouble
—nothin’ outer th’ ordin’ry—deaths, an’ sick-
ness, an’ general worry..../ dunno! I
s’pose there was somethin’ weak about me.,
but it got that way I knew it was th’ ’sylum
—or worse.... So I cleared out, an’ —an’ ’ere
I am! Seems mad, don’t it?” The vagrant
looked up at the family solicitor with a half-
defiant air, but the corners of his miserable
mouth were twitching, and his eyes were
moist with misery.
Gadsbad wanted to comfort him, for,
strangely enough, he felt sorry for the poor
wretcli who had gone under. But he saw
that any expression of sympathy would prob-
ably produce tears. The possibility was too.
awful to contemplate, and he hurriedly or-
dered more beer, with some dim idea of
swamping the emotion which the recital had
caused.
While the wreck was greedily sucking at
his tankard, Gadsbad pressed a half-crown
into his hand, with several muttered lies.
“It’s a waste of money, but you’ve interested
me. I haven’t a bit of sympathy for you,
mind! I think you are a cur to go down as
you have, and a d —d fool, too. Anyhow,
there you are! Now, you’d better clear
out.”
The outcast hitched at his belt and sneeredi
“Orright,” he muttered, “I’m goin’! < It
ain’t orfen I gets ’arf a dollar f’r tellin’ tIF
g).spel truth about meself! Good-night,
oss ! An’ thank yer !” .
r £h ( e awing doors closed with a bang, and
he #as gone like an uficlean spirit, the empty
tankard on the counter the only tangible
proof that he had ever been.
Gadsbad left the hotel a minute later, and
walked home thinking hard about the
vagrant. He found himself to a certain ex-
tent sympathising with the coward who had
deliberately relinquished all effort, and gone
—down the hill. It was conceivably that .a
% ’ man of small courage and'low brain capacity
might find the burden of life too Heavy.
Why, of course, wasn’t suicide a common-
place thing? Didn’t men and women kill
themselves every day? Suppose a man had
reached the stage of utter exhaustion, yet
still was unwilling to end his life, what
alternative had he? Clearly, there was no-
thing for him to do but go under as this poor
wretch had done. It was disgusting that
any human being should prefer that sort of
thing to clean, decisive death; but the weak-
ling who chose it was entitled to the useless
and helpless sympathy which all extended to
the . suicide. One could do nothing for a
dead body except bury it; a live body could at
least spend a sympathetic half-crown on
beer. Gadsbad smiled cynically at the
thought as he entered his front gate and
walked slowly up the path towards the front
door. He was feeling very tired.
Mrs. Gadsbad was sitting in the morn-
ing-room reading when he entered, and
Phyllis, his daughter, was writing an ac-
ceptance to an invitation received that
“How white you look!” His wife low-
ered her book for an instant with a frown
of annoyance, and the tinkle of her num-
erous bracelets made an irritating accom-
paniment for her voice. And how wor-
ried !” .
“Do I?” muttered the tired man.
“I don’t know why you should look so,”
said Mrs. Gadsbad fretfully. “It’s hor-
ribly depressing to see anyone going about
like a ghost. So far as I can see, there
is no necessity for it!” She resumed her
book with an impatient movement, whilst
Gadsbad leant wearily on the mantelpiece
and stared at the fire.
Phyllis suspended writing and surveyed
him critically. Most people said that
Phyllis “took after” her mother; if she
didn’t, then her mother took before Phyllis.
They were both tiresome, comfortless wo-
men. . . ,
“Father!” the voice was very clear and
distinct, and very — very patient. “Father,
why do you work so hard?”
Instead of demurring helplessly, as was'
his wont when such queries were flung at
him, Gadsbad made a new, bright and orig-
inal reply. He said, “I really don’t know,
Phyllis.”' Then he moaned slightly, as if
in sudden pain, and fell fainting into the
fender.
Utter confusion supervened. The house-
maid and handy man were summoned with
all haste, and, between them, they lifted
the insensible man on to the sofa, while
Mrs. Gadsbad and Phyllis looked on, mute
and helpless with terror. Gadsbad, a cruel,
jagged wound over one eye, and bis face
streaked with blood —lay practically un-
attended until the doctor arrived with a
nurse in his motor. Then the wound was
dressed, and he was carried upstairs still
unconscious, and put to bed. His wife sat
by his bedside waiting for him to recover
his senses; but it was well on towards 11
o’clock before he opened his eyes, and said
in a drowsy voice, “Buy er box er matches,
Boss !”
“M'illiam!” Mrs. Gadsbad started up
half-asleep and looked wildly into her hus-
band’s face. “Do you feel better, Wil-
liam?”
“Buy ; er box er matches, Boss !” whined
the injured man, his voice a dreadful echo
of the ’ beggar’s'.
"“William! Don’t you know me? Mrs.
Gndsbad shook him slightly in her agita
tion.
“No! ’Oo are yer?”
. “Your wife.”
’ His eyes lighted up beneath the ban-
*dages. “No, yer don’t!” he sneered. “I
ain’t got no wife. Don’t you try any of
yer funny business on me ! You look after
yer bisness and don’ worry me torkin’ rot.
I didn’t come inter ’orspital to be worried !”
The distracted woman shook him again.
“You are wandering! This isn’t a hospi-
tal,; and you must not talk in, that common,
horrid way! You are at home, and lam
your wife. Do you understand, - now?”
“Look ’ere, Missus, vou shut up or I’ll
tell th’ doctor in th’ mornin’, and then
you’ll get the shoot.!”
Gli, nonsense! Don’t you remember?
You fell on tne fender just after you came
home from the office. I was reading, and
Phyllis”—
“ ’Oo’s Fill us?”
“Our daughter! Oh! surely you must
remember!”
“Yer a liar!” shouted Gadsbad, starting
up in bed. “I tell yer that" yer a liar! I
was askin’ a cove t’ buy some matches in
that .pub when some skunk, hit me on th’
’ead! I didn’t fall inter no fender at all,
an’ I ’avcn’t got no ’ome, an’ I wouldn’t
go to it if I ’ad! I . tell yer I don’t know
yer!” Overcome by sudden weakness, he
fell back on his pillow and whined miser-
ably, ‘W’y carn’t yer let a pore devil alpne!
I never done you no ’arm, did I?”
The nurse, who had gone out for some
medicines, at that moment entered the
room, and went immediately to the bedside.
“He’s delirious, Nurse,” whispered Mrs.
Gadsbad. “Is it a bad sign ?”
“Buy er box er matches,• Boss,” whined
Gadsbad from the'pillow.
The nurse pushed Mrs. Gadsbad gently
from the'room. “You mustn’t worry; they
are often like this after an accident. Now
you must go and have a rest, please. He
will probably be right in the morning. Ilis
head isn’t clear yet. I will call you if it
is necessary. Please go and lie down!”
Mrs. Gadsbad went obediently, and the
stricken house settled down for the night.
But, in the sick room, Gadsbad muttered
incessantly through the dark hours, implor-
ing someone in very bad English to buy
matches.
* * * *
Gadsbad v was not right in the morning. He
was wide’ awake, but his delusions had not
left him, and his English was, if anything,
worse than on the previous evening. The
doctor came ■about 9, and, after listening to
Mrs. Gadsbad, and getting the nurse’s re-
port, he went in to sge his patient. He
came out after a lengthy interval an ob-
viously excited man. His request for a
consultation was readily granted, and, before
dinnerjone of Sydney’s most element doctors
ha& sp'gnt sw-hat he in
the privacy of his club as one of the most in-
teresting and enjoyable hours of his profes-
sional career. “An extraordinary case! A
.cultured, educated man of 50 fa-lls,, down on
a fender, and wakes up a Domain vagrant.
He has absolutely forgotten everything; he
talks, thinks and eats like one of these poor
devils, that bail you up in the street for the
.Of course, My.may get
( jjp'


ILDRENS
Scalp Troubles.
MOTHERS find it very difficult to
guard against unsightly and dis-
tressing diseases of the scalp among
the little ones, especially as some such
troubles are very catching; and once they
have developed it is more difficult still to
find a cure.
Eczema (in the familiar form of scald-
head), honey-scab, dandruff and ring-
worm are all scalp affections for which
Zam-Buk has proved most efficacious. Whether the form of the eruption be
running sores, dry scabs or scales, or inflamed patches, Zam-Buk is alike
soothing and curative.
In cases of ringworm Zam-Buk has achieved remarkable success. Rubbed
gently into the itchy red patches, this pure balm soaks through the diseased
tissue, and kills the microscopic fungus-plants which are the cause of the trouble.
Mothers should keep Zam-Buk handy, and dress daily any part of the skin or
scalp which presents the least suspicion of disease.
INFLAMED SORES ON CHILD’S HEAD.
A MOTHER’S GRATITUDE TO ZAM=BUK.
Mrs. A. Barratt, 37 Dudley Street, Paddington, Sydney, says : “My
little daughter, Norma, had a lump form
on her head, caused by the tooth of a
comb sticking in the surface, which happened to
be encrusted by cradle cap. The comb must have
poisoned the spot, for the lump grew to the size
of half a crown, and rose to about an inch in
height. We tried various remedies, but nothing
did it any good. My daughter suggested Zam-
Buk, and we straightway secured a supply and
applied some of the balm to the sore. On the
third day while Norma was being washed the
lump came off, leaving underneath a mass of
matter and inflammation. We continued with
Zam-Ruk, and presently the sore was com-
pletely healed, and her head is now spotless
and clean."
Zam-Buk is Invaluable for eczema, Itch, piles,
ringworm, ulcers, sore heads, bad legs, festering
wounds, diseased ankles, running sores,
wounds, scabs, itching skin disease,
scalp troubles, and skin injuries and
diseases generally. Sold by all chemists
and stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot, or direct
from the Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt St, Sydney.
Jjittle Norma ?
Barratt, \
cure 4 of scalp )
trouble, by l
Zam-Bvk '
asdf
asd
fa
sdf
amßuk
EVERY iHOME NEEDS A POX.
THE
; ■■■ ■ ‘ ■. ,-i ■ •
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day*
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion; If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tpj?
tHe skin’&HesiltH and beauty. There
can be no l question about tHat;
.■; , .•» ,ix»Fr ,
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
Matchless for the Complexion.
?u ei j 1 ! : ia a ay or SO, ie other hand,
the delusions may be permanent. Shows you
what a queer thing the brain is. Tremen-
dously interesting ease!”
A month passed away, and Gadsbad was
walking about the garden. At intervals he
asked truculently when was he “goin’ t’ be
discharged frotn this ’ere ’orspital.” All at-
tempts to convince him that he was in his
own home only served to put him in a pas-
sion, so the specialist strongly advised Mrs.
Gadsbad to pose as the matron, and leave it
to Nature to put things right. However,
Nature seemed disinclined to take on the
contract. Gadsbad gradually grew strong
and well in body, but his brain retained its
madness. He . would not, or could not, speak
decent English, he remembered nothing, and,
worst of all, his old habits cf personal clean-
liness began to be forgotten.
It was a long time before Mrs. Gadsbad
could be brought to understand that by no-
thing less than an out-size in miracles could
her husband ever be able to go to the office
again. And the necessary miracle didn’t
look like happening. Instead, Gadsbad the
family solicitor sank rapidly into the miser-
able state of the chronic loafer. He had
not the necessary qualifications either for a
public hospital or a lunatic asylum, even had
Mrs. Gadsbad been willing to contemplate
such a solution of the dreadful problem. He
certainly was not ill, and he wasn’t mad
in the ordinary sense. Simply his fall had
put out of action the brain department which
keeps a man alive and stirring whilst life is
in him. All efforts to awaken some recollec-
tions of his old life—and many were made by
liis wife—were in vain. The habits, train-
ing, memories and ambitions of a lifetime
had been wiped out the instant the fender
edge dug into his head. So, after six
months had gone, Mrs. Gadsbad began to
realise that it would have been better had
her husband died that tragic night. The
fearful caricature that lounged about the
garden represented something worse than
death both to itself and to those who, if they
had not loved the original, at least had re-
spected it.
People—especially selfish people— must
live; so, After the first shock was over,
Mrs. Gadsbad and Phyllis resumed to a great
extent the old social round. This necessi-
tated all sorts of mean expedients to keep
Gadsbad out of evidence. When callers were
expected Gadsbad became the, care of his
own gardener—a small, tyrannical man who
keenly resented being made the keeper of a
lunatic. He made poor Gadsbad so wretch-
edly unhappy that the poor wreck cleared out
one night, and was only found by the police
after a week’s search. When discovered,
he was sleeping happily underneath a wharf
and he objected strongly to being disturbed.
They conveyed him home, where he remained
under protest for three days. At the end
of that time he made off again, and was not
recaptured for a fortnight. Once more he
was forcibly returned to the home, which was
kept going on a very reduced scale by his
wife, who, fortunately, had a small income
of her own. But he escaped again, and this
time no effort was made to bring him back.
They had, so they argued, barely sufficient
for themselves; and, even supposing they
had more, the poor man didn’t seem, happy
with then!? So of what vise was it worry-
ing? Thus it came to pass that Gadsbad
dropped out of, sight of his wife and child,
and went down to the depths.
Now, the story of Gadsbad would have
ended there had it not been for a legacy and
a newspaper man. The newspaper man
didn’t get the legacy (newspaper men never
do), but a vindictive Providence selected
from its armory these two totally dissimilar
instruments to re-open Gadsbad’s case, and
to wreak vengeance on his wife and daughter.
The.blow did not fall for two years after
Gadsbad’s third and final disappearance.
During the interval, Mrs. Gadsbad and
Phyllis settleu down to a steady two-handed
game of Society, for small stakes, and they
were getting along nicely when something
died unexpectedly and left Mrs. Gadsbad the
stupendous amount of £200,000. Wealth is
almost as hard to suppress as murder; the
news of the windfall swept all over the place,
and congratulations were pelting in by post
and wire, when a grislv article bobbed up on
the surface of an evening paper. It was
labelled “A Romance of Real Life,” and it
told the story of Gadsbad, with an atten-
tion to detail that was inhuman. It
contrasted the future comfort of the wife and
-daughter with the utter destitution of the
■afflicted husband, and it left Mrs. Gadsbad
;and Phyllis no alternative but to go and res-
cue the man who had worked for them for so
many years. They were spared the trouble
<of searching for the lost one —the evening
paper man had basely located him for them.
Gadsbad had become a minstrel of the slums,
and sang for pennies in the streets, mostly
outside dingy hotels where the prevailing
brand of beer made people feel benevolent.
Two days after the publication of the ar-
ticle, a cab with two white-faced women in
it came slowly down a street in Woolloo-
mooloo towards a small hotel, in front of
which a battered object was hoarsely shout-
ing a song. The words echoed unheeded
in the dingy thoroughfare:
I know she thinks abart ’im,
And hindwardly she frets.
I’ve seen th’ rowses fadin’ now f’r munce.
An’ wen I torks abart ’im
She sez: “For-g ive an’ ior-get,
Ree-member, Bill, ’e usedter luv me wunee! ”
As the singer concluded, another ruin,
with his hat in his hand, was thrust violently
out of the pub by a small, red-faced man.
“Clear out av me house!” shouted the
publican furiously. “Clear out now!”
“Will I!” whined the ejected one, who
was already out.
“Out av me sight!” yelled the publican,
waving a fat arm. “Clear out, both av
.yez !”
“Let’s sing to ’im, Bozzy, ’ said the ragged
-minstrel, and they stood shoulder to shoulder
‘on the footpath, and maddened the angry
man by repeating the maudlin verse all over
tigain.
The cab had stopped doubtfully behind
the two unwelcome singers, and, during the
selection, the publican’s attention was- di-
vided between them and the two women, who
were listening with undisguised emotion to
the inartistic performance:
An’ wen I torks abart ’im,
She sez: “For-g ive an’ ior-get,
Ree-member, Bill, ’e usedter > v me wurice!”
They moaned it together to the end, and the
ipublican danced before, them with rage, and
rshook his fist unavailingly in their dirty
-faces. !■■■ ,
“WILL ye hold yer dommed row?” he
roared, and, when they had quite finished,
they held it.
“What is ut ye’re wantin, ma’am?” asked
the hotelkeeper, approaching the cab.
Mrs. Gadsbad nodded at Gadsbad’s back
and said, “I want to speak to that man,
please.” t
The man made a gesture of disgust. “Don’t
give th’ dhirty loafer yer good money, ma’am.
He’s a nuisance, so he is !”
“But I merely want to speak”
“Don’t spake to him, ma’am! He isn’t
worth ut!”
“Ere, what’s it go’ t’ do with you?”
Bozzy wheeled round and approached the
cab cautiously. Bozzy was the match-seller
who had approached Gadsbad on that fateful
evening. He had encountered his former
patron one night in the Domain, and they
had formed a sort of travelling partnership.
Bozzy was Gadsbad’s manager; he arranged
Gadsbad’s suburban concert tours, and did
the collecting. As a business man of sorts,
he recognised that money might be made out
of the strange lady’s interest in his star. So
he approached the cab with almost as much
confidence as a dog well accustomed to be
kicked.
“What is it, lady?” he asked hungrily.
“I want to speak to that man, please.”
Bozzy coughed slightly, and came a step
closer. “T’ Billo, lady?”
“Yes —to Billo !”
Bozzy shook his head and looked doubt-
fully at Gadsbad. “’E ain’t too strong'in
the ’ead, lady. Me an’ ’im’s together—p.n'
I kin tell yer anythin’ y’ want t’ know....
Would y’ rather speak t’ ’im yerself, lady?”
“Yes; will you bring him here, please ?”
Bozzy turned round obediently. “Billo,
yer wanted !”
Gadsbad stepped off the kerb and brushed
past the indignant and dumbfounded publi-
can. He walked towards the cab, but he
kept his eyes on Bozzy’s face. “Does she
want me to sing, Bozzy?”
“Do you remember me, William?” asked
the wife.
Gadsbad looked her straight in the eyes
and answered respectfully, “No, missus.”
But Bozzy, in the background, suddenly
made a frenzied dive at his breast-pocket,
and pulled out a sheet of newspaper with
jam stains on it. He unfolded it with trem-
bling fingers, and, pushing Gadsbad to one ,
side, extended it in front of the fashionably-
dressed woman. “Is—is this ’ere true?”
he demanded breathlessly. “Is Billo th’
missin’ one?”
Mrs. Gadsbad nodded miserably.
Bozzy turned to the publican and waved
the account of the “Gadsbad Romance” at
him. “That’s one in yer duck-’ouse, Riley !
This lady 'ere is Billo’s missus!!”
Then the publican temporarily lost his rea-
son altogether. He stamped alternately
with both feet, spat in the gutter and
shouted. “Ye’re a pair av dhirty black-
guards !” After which he rushed inside and
slammed the side door after him with a crash
that shook the whole shanty.
And outside, Mrs. Gadsbad and Bozzy
spent several minutes inducing Gadsbad to
get into the cab. He was very reluctant to
do so, and Bozzy had to explain that he too
was going for a ride before he would consent
to climb in. Finally they all drove off to-
gether, and the publican watched them from
a top window, and requested Heaven to tell
him whether he was mad or not.
Gadsbad and Bozzy now have a small cot-
tage to themselves somewhere down in Wool-
loomooloo. There is no necessity for Gads-
bad to sing for pennies, but he thinks there
is, and. as it is quite useless to argue with
him, Mrs. Gadsbad has simply to try and
avoid seeing or hearing him. But Gadsbad
wanders far and wide, and sings pretty well
all round the clock, so it is impossible to
avoid him altogether. He only sings the
one awful song, and, when you examine it
critically and remember the circumstances of
the case, you can’t help feeling sorry for
Mrs. Gadsbad.
I know she thinks abart ’im,
An’ hinwardly she frets.
I’ve seen th’ rowses fadin’ now f'r munce;
An’ wen I forks abart ’im,
She sez: “For-g ive an’ tor-get!
Bee member, Bill, ’e usedter luv-me wunce!”
It is a terrible thing to be haunted by.
KODAK.
Moonshine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL the yellow hair of night,
Tumbled in the golden moon,
Ripples into waves of light,
Touched with melody and tune.
Olden links of broken song
In a sleepy whisper die
Where the timid shadows throng,
Hiding from the splendid sky.
This full hour is mine and thine ;
Ours to hold, in cups of dre^m,
All that vintage of clear wine
Eldest summers set astream.
Lotus kisses set afloat,
Living lips, and eyes that smile,
Lapping waters where the boat
Breaks the mirror of the Nile.
Jewel-wrought, a sandal flames,
Pearl enwoven robes go by,
Youth and love have tender names
’Neath the unforgetting sky.
Sighing towards the city wall,
Wakes a strain that trembles on,
Where the sloping shadows fall
O’er the gold of Babylon.
Clear the pathway of long fire
On Levantine waves that swell,
Where a balcony of Tyre
Breathes the name of Isabel.
Grecian meadows dewy sweet,
Dells where fountain music drips,
Youngest gods have lucent feet,
Oreads have rosy lips.
Kentish orchards rich with bloom,-
Whispered converse in the shade,
Castle arch and vaulted room,
• Norman speech and Saxon maid.
All the world is mine and thine,
Gathered in the cups of dream,
Crystal vintage of full wine,
Eldest moonlight set astream.
Yellow hair of laughing night,
Tumbled in the windy gold—
Girl, your lips of red delight
Would have made a hermit bold !
« N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.


W estingoouse
The
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetta
or
Vaporiser.
asdf
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention:—
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
PULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. King's Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi.
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
asd
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of tie Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Seven
Prize Medals.
fa
irts'la.ndU
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
w
MORRIS'S i
iree Witches
ofAncrns
atfn
for
M*«U
louden
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
The* Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries*
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
sine. 1596.
CURES
Australian'Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist forits history— the boojr is free—or write
S- GREEN, 210, Lapibetli Road, London, Eng.
Big G
Boratei Goldenseal
Compound
r A safe and simple remedy for 1
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
i Treatise with oe.ch bottle
or mailed on request.
, Tie Evut Chemical Co.
fmriimali flhta
U.S.A.
mmm
GRIMAULTa INDIAN fitGARETTES 1
Diffleidty in expectoration. Asthma, Narrons Gonehs
relieved* b/IfeSISStT sfe*
BITES. * Fo’d H all fhsmlstZ lAN CIGAB ‘
rTTHE Australian Magazine. THE LON®
HAND, the Natienal Monthly. -Price 6&.
am
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
EACH POST FREE I/S
i Quality Not Better
I in a
r Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYMVEY.
STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening.
have been tested, and have been proved
to aiford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit &f
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From ajl Chemists and
Medioine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
SfiV:
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNBY.
sdf
Superior to (
INJECTIONS ,
iCUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name
asd
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePoFt
Nature's Gift.
fills this prescription.
fm
o'*'*.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
nob stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, R.B.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, YIQ.


*
vr
;
&
IHE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
r publication, there are none left.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
Electric Generating Sets, Steam, Oil
and Petrol; and Storage Batteries,
with all necessary fittings,
Lamps, etc-, for complete installations.
Write for particqlars to
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.,,
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADk.
32
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a eiiard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Kardie & Co,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
TANGYE Oil Engines
Copy of Testimonial received from Mr. P. Squire,
Cowra, N.S.W. :
“ With the ‘ Tangye ’ Oil Engine and Wolseley
Sheep Shearing Machines, erected for me this
year, I have gone through the shearing without
a hitch.
“ I am more than pleased with the Engine and
Machines and the erection of same.”
For Shearing- Sheds.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
IS THE WORLD'S BEST.
Competition has only tended to emphasise this well-known fact, as
improvements which have recently been added to the machine have
established beyond any doubt the right to claim for the “ Wplseley ”
the title—
THE PREMIER SHEARING MACHINE.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND CATALOGUES.
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine
is a particularly well-built and Substantial
Engine, and SPECIALLY SUITED TO
AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS. Numbers in
use in N.S.W. driving Pumps Circular
Saws, Chaffcutters, etc.
For Shearing: Sheds.
e. 4!. '?’■
'*’** i i.: . - ,’V\'~C' v
fas
s Point,
Blake’s Improved Steam
and Belt-Driven Pumps
for Every Possible Service.
df
Boiler Feed, Tank or Light Service,
Mining, Horizontal and Vertical.
Hydraulic Pressure, Combined Air
and Circulating Pumps, Single
and Duplex.
GORY & CO.
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants.
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GOOD SHOP REQUIRES A GOOD TOOL
Lodge 8 Shipley LATHES are Specially Made for RAPID PRODUCTION.
We are
Agents for
these
Machines,
to let you
know mom
about them.
m
Bgvan 8 Edwards Prop. Ltd., King Street, Melbourne
asdf
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
SUCTION
GAS PLANTS.
asd
fa
CHErRSEN ROCK DRILLS
MADE IN TWO SIZES. 2fin. Cylinder for Stoping, 3£in. Cylinder for General Work.
“THE CHERSEN”
COMBINES
LIGHTNESS with
STRENGTH.
sd
"THE CHERSEN ”
USES LESS AIR
THAN ANY OF ITS
COMPETITORS.
fas
LTD
■3
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
