

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
3 Z. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
—FOR — . . . ,
iiing* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONM ONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AY AIL ABLE.
The DISCRIMINATING WORKING MAN
who would have a truly helpful loan to tide him over his present financial embarrassment, is assured of the lowest interest in
Australia, and the easiest of the easy terms when he seeks our aid. Our reputation for straightforward, above-board -tran-
sactions to large and small borrowers is known everywhere. We lend from £5 upon Furniture (without removal), Jewellery,
Deeds of Land, Interests under Wills, etc., promptly.
N.S.W. MOl
PIETE D. § I. Co. Lim
74 Castlereagh Street 74, Sydney
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ffi
KJ
Doctors Recommend
CILBEY’S DRY GIN
HOBART.
3Stf»
fiadleys Orient fiotel.
p
lONEE
LEATHER BELTING
R
Gdarantkkd
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
Take it back.
I must hjivc—
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
t
fdgfd
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
~HA n s e ns
dfg fd
fd g
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
With PALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVER! OWN RUB BER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
DRINK
BECK’S LAGER BEER
MALTHOID
MALTHOID is the one roofing that produces satis-
factory results on every class of building.
From the most Artistic Bungalow to the Shearing
Shed sounds like a far cry; yet in both these instances,
as in all others, MALTHOID has no equal.
MALTHOID is a ready-to-lay roofing which adapts
itself to every necessity by virtue of it being absolutely
waterproof, weather-resistant to the last degree, and
practically remains intact as long as the building itself.
To buy an imitation is to court serious disaster.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
g dƒd
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L-•
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
Moved to
352 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. have removed to 352 Kent Street (near
King Street), Sydney.
The premises are more commodious and central, making
it easier to cope with the steady increase of business.
jlaffat-ViriueSH
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT STREET
(near King Street), SYDNEY.
H ELI DON SPA
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA lies in its STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
solvent power and cleansing properties. Phiaip st., Sydney, and nedtem
The Bulletin
Vol. .S3.—No. 1710.]
[Thursday, November 21, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S/W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


•SHOOS TVOXNHDaX M3N
(Prices Include Postage.)
Audel’s Answers on Pract. Engineering, 5/2.
Inchley, W.: Steam Boilers and Accessories, 10/9.
Gillette: Earthwork and Its Cost, 10/9.
Lawal: Centrifugal Pumping Machinery and Turbine
Pumps, 15/4.
Charlesworth: Practical Mathematics for Technical
Students, 3/9.
Williams and Tweedy: Commercial Engineering for
Central Stations, 1,2/9.
Smith, IV. G.: Practical Descriptive Geometry, 10/3.
11001, G. A.: Reinforced Concrete Construction. Vol.
I.—Fundamental Principles, 12/9.
Brewer, R. W.: Motor-car Construction, 6/4.
s a ,r etry G " ph "=' ,or
28-page Catalogue of Books for Boys and Girls posted free to'any address
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Ht°°x lOHlNawna S ( UOS P«H
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
The great Antiseptic Powder which contains
no acid, and is guaranteed absolutely harmless
to the enamel. In contact with moisture the
powder liberates free, active Oxygen, and it
is the Oxygen which whitens the teeth so won-
derfully, and wards off decay as no other pre
paration for the teeth can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper meta>
bottles, handy for travel or home, price 1/6,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Forwarded Fr. , our New Book containing valuable information
2] regarding the Teeth.
iHOW TO USE THE POWDER.i
CSC
The Red Page
The People’s Books,” sold in Australia at
9d. each, are marvellous value. From T. C.
Lothian, Melbourne, come three of the
latest volumes: The Growth of Freedom, by
Henry W. Nevison ; Francis Bacon, by A. It.
Skemp, and The Brontes, by Flora Masson
(published by Jack).
As the Rev. John Clifford in his preface
says : “Baptists all over the world will be
specially delighted to accompany Mr. J. A.
Packer [of The Watchman, Sydney] on
his pilgrimage Among the Heretics in
Europe" (Cassell). The frontispiece is a
photograph of the first national congress of
Russian Baptists.
Every yachtsman in Australia will find
something of interest in The Complete
Yachtsman, by B. Heckstall-Smith and Cap-
tain E. du Bulay (Methuen, per George Rob-
ertson, Sydney; 15s. in England—more
here). The first author is secretary of the
International Yacht Racing Union, and the
second a well-known authority on marine
motoring. This comprehensive book is fully
illustrated with photographs and diagrams.
It treats of yacht-building, rigging, sailing,
seamanship, tides and tide-tables, racing
rules and racing illustrations, motor din-
ghies, hydroplanes, yacht designing, ice
yachts, sea-fishing and a general history of
yachting. Given an understanding of this
book and a yachtsman’s cap, anybody, even
the present writer, could pass as a yachts-
man.
A new play by a Dago dramatist named
Jimt been discovered at Oxy-
,i!fn U f S ’ H.^ per Egypt. Apparently the
tho* 5 plr b f Cat ti? n of tllis e( lAion was about
e ,,. e , n<l of 1 the second century, a.d. —
publisher and price not stated—and the
C V,Vi! aiIIS , onl -X the first half of the
drama. -1 he play is Ichneutce, or The
Trackers. The scene is laid on Mount
fjyllene, in Arcadia, and deals with cattle-
stealing and the invention of the lyre by
the child Hermes. The cows in question be-
longed to a dairv-farmer named Apollo,
who, discovering the absence of **my milch-
kine and my calves, my pretty heifers,”
otters a reward to gods and men for their
recovery. Silenus and his trained band of
black-trackers, the Satyrs, set out to find
the cattle. When they find the footprints
coming from a cave, it does not take this
astute band of trackers long to discover
that the cattle-thief had made the animals
walk backwards into the cave; but suddenly
the.\ retreat in panic from a strange noise
issuing from the cavern. Hut Silenus, after
roundly rating them for cowards, beats at
the cave s mouth, and a nymph of the name
of Cyllene appears. She tells him of a
scandal in high life:—
It is a secret in the gods’ abodes
Lest tidings of the deed 'reach Hera's ear.
Zeus came to Haia’s hidden dwelling-place,
I orgetf ul of his own deep-bosomed spouse,
And in a lonely cave begat a 50n....
Not full six days have passed since he was
born,
And yet he presses on to boyhood’s sta-
ture. ...
And that dread voice ye ask of, ringing out
Irom instrument unseen, a single day
Beheld him fashion from an upturned box.
Whereat the trackers politely remark:
Stranger story ne’er was heard,” and ask
from what the boy had made his lyre.
Cyllene admits that part of it is made from
the skin of a flayed cow. The trackers
rightly conclude that they are on the trail of
the cattle-thief. Here the text breaks off.
From the, type of play, a Satyric drama,
Ihe I rackets is evidently to be regarded
as funny; and there is no doubt that the
mimicry by the satyrs of dogs upon the
scent would lend itself to by-play that now-
adays would not be passed by . the censor.
But compared with its modern descendant,
a ( hristmas pantomime, The Trackers
would not run for more than one consecu-
tive night. There is no part in it for the
baroness; the chorus is exclusively male,
and disguised in William Goat whiskers,
and the principal boy is only six days old.
SSo there seems little chance of it being put
on by the Firm for Easter.
♦ ■
It is the illustrations rather than the
letterpress that give its charm to Stories of
Old, Sydney (Angus and Robertson; 3s. 6d.).
This daintily printed little book contains 50
pen-drawings by Sydney Ure/Smith. Some
of them have that slight stiffness that seems
the chief weakness of this artist; but, having
pointed to this small crudity, the critic finds
in the rest of his work ample evidences of
the practised hand and the artistic taste of this
young and promising craftsman. The stories,
prefaced by some uninspired verses, include
‘‘The Ghosts of Hunter Street;” an'interest-
ing account of the old windmills of old Syd-
ney ; rambles round the Rocks, examples of
whose rapidly disappearing architecture
Sydney Ure Smith was fortunate enough to
sketch in time; and other reminiscences of
the past. The author, Charles H. Bertie,
who contrives to be dull in a distinctly infor-
mative way, aptly asks of critics who object
to the adjective “old” applied to Sydney:
“How many cities in the world can claim
that the national history begins with them?
This is the proud boast of Sydney, for the
shore v f - Sydney Cove was the cradle of the
Australian race, and her old buildings and
streets are invested with , a dignity beyond
that of mere age.”
The next best thing to a trip to Europe is
a copy of Ethel Turner’s Ports and Happy
Havens (Ilodder and Stoughton, per Angus
and Robertson), well illustrated by photo-
graphs, and written from the fresh Austra-
lian standpoint with all this writer’s careless
charm.
One sign of our increasing importance to
ourselves is the substitution of local text-
books for imported text-books. The latest
is Invalid and Convalescent Cookery, for the
use of Australian nurses, by Kate Harriott,
with recommendations from the Aust.
Trained Nurses’ Association (N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Is.).
New editions of Hearts of Gold, by Will
FI. Ogilvie, and of The Poetical Works of
Brunton Stephens have been issued by Angus
and Robertson, Sydney; ss. In the case of
Ogilvie’s book, this makes the fourth thou-
sand printed.
The 16th edition of Ethel Turner’s delight-
ful first book, Seven Little Australians
(Ward Lock), is to hand from Dymock’s,
Sydney, with a preface from the author in
the same vein as the story. The eight new
illustrations by John Macfarlane, however,
are scarcely typical enough: one would think-
that Norman Lindsay’s knowledge of the
Australian kiddie should have been made use
of in a book that threatens to become a
children’s classic.
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS: No. 6.
Edward Dyson
Born at Morrison's, a mining district
adjacent to Ballarat, March, 1805. Itsemns
only yesterday. Earliest definite recollec-
tions are of Alfredton, a sort of bush-side
suburb of vthe Garden city, a very excellent
place for a youngster of 12 months meditat-
ing a life of letters to locate himself in. Here
all the staple materials of Australian litera-
ture were easy and accessible. Before our
skillion door boomed half a dozen deep
mines, on the edge of the famous Sebastopol
Plateau; behind was the big bush teeming
with agricultural and pastoral interest;
east was a very serviceable plain ; west more
bush and the grand cattle yards,, a maze of
pens to which once a week came the splendid
drovers with their drifting sheep and their
mobs of sullen cattle, and from which on the
following day the sheep and cattle streamed
again, the latter still more terrible after 20
hours in the pens.
EDWARD DYSON.
I am asked for an article on my “career
as a writer, and-methods of work.” and all
this belongs, for the soaking which began
at two made the seepage possible. The
Alfredton experiences came from my
pores in stories, verse and paragraphs,
how many hundreds of columns I cannot
say, but the stories have ranged from two
“sticks” to a long novel, and with the skele-
ton work and inspiration this one district
supplied a dozen novels —and twenty times
as many stories might have been written,
So much is due to Alfredton—“Wad'dy,”
of The Gold-stealers, and half a hundred
short stories —that an annual pilgrimage is
called for, but the towering poppet-heads
have gone, the gleaming tips have been
smoothed away, or planted oyer into orna-
mental hillocks, the township has fallen
into line, and is prim and decorous ; trains
now bring in the cattle, and even the bush
is pruned and orderly. Waddy is a memory,
a grateful memory of stirring life, a feast of
local color. More especially is it remem-
bered as.a kaleidoscope of ardent character.
What vital figures those early townships
contained! The men were all personalities.
To me they are vivid still, peculiar, appeal-
ing, the “Geordies,” the “Cousin Jacks,” the
Irish, and the sprinkling of Swedes. Italians,
Germans and Frenchmen, genericallv known
as Dutchmen, each with his marked traits.
Men are not so individual in large towns.
Here, too, came the waning tribes of
natives on • periodical visits, whining for
“tickpen,” greedy for tobacco and beer.
There were occasional batches of Chinese
fossickers, too, hated with a vindictiveness
that only passed after wise legislation had
robbed the Yellow Agony of its terror.
Along the wide ironstone road went the wag-
goners, with their eight- and ten-horse teams,
carting seven-foot wood to the mines. When
a waggon stuck it was gala day in Waddy,
while the teamsters demonstrated their faith
in the Australian dogma that profanity will
shift mountains. Waddy was surely the
profanest place on earth. With drovers,*
stockmen, bullockies, carters, shepherds,
quarrymen, stone-breakers and “Geordies”
of all trades, profanity was a business me-
thod and a necessity. No wonder the chil-
dren of Waddy cursed before they could
talk. It is a cherished family tradition that
at 14 months I swore at the clergyman who
christened me.
Jt
From Waddy to Melbourne for a year, a
year that provided only one useful experi-
ence, a casual drowning in the Yarra. At
any rate I was drowned so far as a drown-
ing can be of _ any literary value to the
drowned, that is to the point of insensi-
bility. From Melbourne we went to Bendi-
go, and I indulged in much prowling in creeks
and gullies, “specking” and fossicking, much
jubilant “wagging it” in company with an
elder brother, hunting rats in underground
Bendigo, fossicking with old handleless fry-
ing-pans for prospecting dishes, lingering
around the tips seeking specimens, and fore-
gathering with experts in batteries and en-
gine houses. Back to Ballarat, at nine,
living at Soldier’s Bill, adjacent to the Yar-
rawee and Black Hill. Here I presently be-
came one of a vainglorious syndicate of
small boys owning a digger’s cradle with the
aid of which much fossicking was done on
worked-out fields of historic interest.
The family drifted to Waddy again when
I was 11, but now the great mines were all
shut down, the engine-houses were dark and
silent, the tips were given over to rabbits,
and the puddling plats to the birds and the
bats. It was a new interest and a new in-
fluence. The deserted mines took hold of
me. I haunted them like a familiar spirit,
rarely without a prospecting pan under my
arm. While the other boys prowled the
bush and climbed trees, I crawled and
scrambled about the old mines, scaling the
poppet legs, venturing down the ladder
shafts, breaking into musty offices, forges
and engine and boiler houses, and fearfully
penetrating their dark mysteries.
For years there had been school-going.
The long trial began in a certain dim kit-
chen presided over by an indefinite sort of
ogre in skirts. Later “crept like snail un-
willingly” to a “private” school, the master
of which was a bottle-nosed dipsomaniac
who taught readiug, writing and sums in-
differently with the aid of a knobbed stick.
After that dull years in various State in-
stitutions, years of bewilderment and loath-
ing. At 11, to my surprise and horror, I
found myself in the fourth class, having
reached that eminence by chicanery and
thieving. A little learning is a dangerous
thing, and my school life at this period was
liberally illustrated with “cuts.” Then sud-
denly, like an awakening from a bad dream,
I discovered how, and lessons became easy
to me. The acquisition of knowledge' was
now a pleasant, spontaneous process; and
had I remained at school a few years I
should have learned so much that I must
have devoted the remainder of my life to
the correcting of other people’s errors. For-
tunately, however, I was rescued from criti-
cism.
At 121 I was abroad in the land in a
two-horse covered waggon, a travelling
home, doing mining fields and navvies’
camps as assistant and house-keeper with a
hawker of drygoods. Things seen and felt
on these expeditions go to the making of
1 ommy the Hawker. From the position of
journeyman draper I went to that of
whimboy in a mine in a Ballarat backyard,
but they gave me a young horse, untrained
to the “demrritiou grind,” and after we had
nearly torn the' shaft up by the roots and
wrecked the whim, and had come within an
ace of killing the whole four o’clock shift. I
took the sack cheerfully, and presently
found myself among the big reefs in Clunes.
Later, fed a tinpot mill in the wilds of Bun-
garee. From Bungaree to Lefroy, Tas-
mania, and a j r ear's experience of shallow
alluvial on the Pinafore.' Sluiced for pyrites
here, and was bracemau on a little, lone ‘ mine
in a deep gully. All good copy-mak-
lng matrix. Back to Vic. and a job, trucking
in a deep, hot mine at Smeaton. From there
to battery building at Gordon’s. From Gor-
don's to Melbourne, .and the two or three
years of factory life responsible for Facfrtj
Ands. From the factory into a sub-edi-
torial position in a Melbourne weekly; then
adrift in the wide field of freelance journal-
ism. A plunge iflto the horrors of owner-
sllli C°ll° wc, G." a nd for two years I ran a
mad little paper and had quaint experiences
of Australian artists, poets and bailiffs yet
to be told. Now a productive contributor,
writing largely to order, paid by measure,
and with just sufficient grievances to make
life enjoyable.
As to my manner of doing things—other
writers I have known insist on ray capacity
for hard work. After hearing a hundred and
fifty assurances, I decline to admit the hard
work, possibly for the reason that to the man
vvho has really toiled with stubborn things
like bricks, and clay, and reef, and rock, the
mere spinning of yarns is a pleasant relaxa-
tion. Certainly it was many years before I
could • beat my conscience into regarding
writing as toil deserving of monetarv reward.
During that time I turned out a great deal of
matter, most of which was printed, but for
which not one penny was paid. If was only
on learning that one benefactor was selling
in country supplements the stuff I provided
gratis that I began to display a vulgar, mer-
cenary craving. Even after securing space
rates for contributions, I was long develop-
ing confidence in literature as both stick «<ind
crutch, and hung on to my “stiddy job,”
writing at night and on Sundays with a per-
severance that looked like a form of dementia
to my relatives. I carried the cacoethes scri-
bendi into the factory, and at 19 composed
surreptitious verse and prose for the local
market, amid the babble of 80 girls and the
clatter of the machines it was my duty to
attend.
My earliest artistic promptings were to
the making of pictures, and served to fill a
huge ledger with masterpieces of flower
drawing and studies of Australian fauna. An
incidental death when I was 12 drove me to
the higher muse, and a touching “In Memor-
iam” was inscribed on my bedroom wall. For
a couple of years after winning a way into
print, I wrote purely fictitious stuff, sup-
posedly humorous extravagance, mere word-
spinning, and felt no impulse towards my
own material, the gatherings of experience.
That was saving up and seasoning. Mean-
while, I was learning to use the tools of
trade, and to plav with sentences to some
tune. Early Bulletin sketches breathed a
more intimate note, and with The Golden
Shanty and The Haunted Mine I began the
systematic use of my reserves. Since then
the process of soakage and seepage has gone
on. Never is the soakage deliberate, and ex-
perience convinces me that matter is of little
use for literary purposes unless it has come
by chance, and till it is thoroughly digested.
Perfect assimilation is not attained under
five years. This capacity for absorbing and
storing is the fictionist’s most valuable endow-
ment. Ability in expression may come with
learning and effort, but the faculty of uncon-
scious collection is the true “gift.” If you
have that gift everything and everybody con-
tribute to your store.
I can recollect scores of people who were
good to me. Old miners who had been
“through it all” were numerous in the Waddv
days. Their yarns, their tricks of speech,
their faces come back in the oddest way.
There was a woman who dressed as much
like a man as she dared, and smoked a black
pipe, who had “kept shanty” on half the big
rushes. She talked by the hour, and her
reminiscences w r ere all raw material of the
best. My father landed in Victoria in ’52,
and saw most of the sturm und drung of the
big rushes, and in ’5B the building of the Gee-
long to Ballarat line, every furlong of which
has its story. My mother came from a life
of refinement in England into the roughest
and most animated phases of the digging
fever. To these, more than any others, l owe
the fact_ that I am never short of a theme.
Much of what came to me from the sources
enumerated I put into The Roaring Fifties,
hoping to give the book some historic value
as a faithful and intimate picture of the
times and the manners.
The composition of a novel has been to
me wholly head work. I have no notes worth
mentioning, but beat out the trunk and limbs
of my story, carrying the plan in memory ;
when the work of writing is begun, 1 keep
close to that skeleton plot, building on bark,
boughs, foliage and blossom to make the
complete tree. In each case the plotting of
the novel has been a work of odd half hours,
extending over a long period, and a small or-
chard of skeleton trees is part of my present
stock-in-trade. It is highly probable that
most of these frees will never put forth
leaves.
For the rest I have industry and system,
and only since my eyes began to enforce con-
sideration have I respected the Eight Hours
principle. So far the need of special in-
spiration has not worried me, and a story
of sorts can be started at a moment’s notice,
and 'written while you wait. To succeed
fairly well from the Bread-winner’s point of
view, as a semi-detached contributor in Aus-
tralian journalism, this machine-like produc-
tiveness is essential. .Quantity pays better
than quality. Having been a mercenary
workmd-n for five days of the week, you may
ie an artist for two, and indulge yourself in
the luxury of the task your heart craves.
EIDWARD DYSON.
An altogether charming feminine romance
is The Dream Girl, by Gertrude Hart
(George Robertson). Not for masculine
consumption is this impossible story; for
the author lives in a world of sentiment,
and her hero, 6ft. lin. in height, who rescues
a child from a burning house in quite the
approved heroic manner, is the feminised
ideal of a young girl; but there is real sen-
timent and a touch of true pathos in the
innocuous romance. The plot is simple:
the story is told by the hackneyed method
of letters written to an unknown girl, and
the denouement is, even to the inexperienced
reader, early foreseen; but the writing is ad-
mirable and the extravagances femininely
pardonable. In this popular class of femi-
nine fiction The Dream Girl stands high.
The book is Myrtle Reidish, of -course ; but
wij:h an Australian difference. From it it is
evident that Gertrude Hart will some day
write. It may innocently be added that
the author-, a young girl, was regarded till
recently as a hopeless invalid. For seven
years she had never stood on her feet. Some
friends called in the aid of a skilled Mel-
bourne surgeon, and on the day she got the
first copy of her book she was able to walk
across the room. Complete recovery is only
a question of time. One reads this sort of
thing in clever publishers’ announcements;
but this is not a publisher’s announcement.


a
DANCING. —Signed Artist’s
Replica, 2ft. 4in. high, £5/17/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FINE ART GALLERY
CERTAINLY the most notable addition to the many features that are presented at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM is the FINE ART GALLERY. This new section of our enterprise represents
collections of wares in varied branches of art, which appeal to the connoisseur, and all who have an innate
love for the beautiful. Many of the articles are eminently suitable for Gifts, being pleasing examples of the com-
bination of artistic talent with industrial enterprise.
The New Department may be regarded as a permanent exhibition of the Fine Arts, ranging from genuine
Bronzes, and exquisite French Enamels, Cut Crystal Glassware, to Pottery and Porcelain, which embraces many Fine
pieces of Irreproachable Style and Beauty in Royal Doulton, Royal Worcester, Royal Crown Derby, Coalport, Cope-
land, Minton, Wedgwood, Belleek, Royal Copenhagen, Lancastrian, Bernard Moore, Gouda, and Austrian Terra
Cotta Ware.
Merit in design and craftmanship entitles these artistic present-day productions to stand cheek-by-jowl with the
Antiques. The Fame of the Fine Art Department has extended far and wide. Visitors are cordially invited to
inspect the art treasures that have been created by the handiwork and genius of man. All articles are marked in
plain figures, at prices which are extremely moderate, and no one is importuned to buy.
ART TERRA COTTA, WARE
Comprising' Statuary, Groups, Vases, Fig'ures,
etc.
The artistic excellence of this collection shown in the FINE ART GALLERY
is of the highest order. The range on view contains many classical and
other popular subjects, all finely modelled, each piece being a signed replica.
, The following are very attractive specimens and remarkable value at the prices quoted.
LA FORCE. —A group piece of exceptional merit, finished
as bronze. The modelling of the lion, held in check by the
gladiator, armed only with a trident, is a wonderfully strong
piece of work. The rough and rugged’ base adds strength to
the piece, and forms a fitting finish to an artistic triumph.
Height, 31 inches; length, 23 inches. Price, £lO/10/-
CORINTH. —A fine, tall, gracefully modelled female
figure of a Grecian Water Carrie Height, 3 feet 4 inches.
Price, £9/9/-
THE GLADIATOR. —A fine subject treated in an artistic
and masterful style; the pose of the figure being excep-
tionally realistic and the delineation of the muscles mar-
vellously executed. This piece is finished as bronze, the
metallic glazing alone being itself a triumph of ceramic
art. Height, 28 inches. Price, £7/7/-
MUSIC. —Signed Artist’s Replica,
2ft. 4in. high, £5/17/6.
ORPHEU S.—A well-
modelled Vase with figure in
relief of Orpheus enchant-
ing the wild denizens of the
forest. Height, 2 feet 6
inches. Price, £6/15/-
DIANA. —Vase of same de-
sign, with figure in relief of
Diana, attired for the chase
and accompanied by hounds.
Height, 2 feet 6 inches.
Price, £6/15/-
VASE, of oval form, with
two branch handles, the foli-
age of which is gracefully
carved over the bowl por-
tion of the Vase. The
of this piece is effectively
decorated with a figure in
relief. Subject, Music.
Height, 22 inches. Price,
59/6.
THE examples of Art in
Terra Cotta Ware
enumerated on this page
are representative of many
other charming pieces
shown in our Fine Art
Gallery.
gdf
CORINTH. —Signed Replica,
3ft. 4in. high, £9/9/-
THE BATHER.—This well-known and ever-popular sub-
ject has been happily reproduced in Terra Cotta work. The
Artist, in paying personal attention to the outline of the
figure and the retouching of the limbs and features, has
given the subject that truly lifelike finish which justly de-
serves the approbation it receives. This piece m artistically
finished in bronze green. Height, 32in. Price, £6/6/-
MUSIC AND DANCING.—Two Vases of pleasing outline,
with female figure in relief. One represents Dancing and
the other Music. Height, 2 feet 4 inches. Price,
£5/17/6.
THE WRESTLERS.—From the original in the Vatican
Museum, a strong, forceful piece, the muscles of the con-
testants being well defined, and the attitude well balanced.
Size, 18 x 13 inches. Price, £4/4/-
THE TEAMSTER.—A natural treat-
ment of a popular subject, showing the
teamster in the attitude of lighting his
pipe. Height, 2 feet. Price, 75/-
THE FISHER BOY.—A pleasing
figure of a boy fishing. With Glass
Bowl complete. Height, 2 feet. Price,
£5/5/-
THE BOOKWORM.—A happy study
of a boy with his arms full of books,
some of which are in the act of falling,
his vain efforts to hold them being well
portrayed. Height, 18 inches. Price,
47/6.
THE SCHOOL B O Y. —A pleas-
ing piece, the at titude of the boy,
with hands i n
pocket, and a
happy, careless
expression, being
extremely nat-
ural and lifelike.
Height, 18
inches. Price,
39/6.
SCHUBERT.—
A finely mo d-
elled bust of this
famous com-
poser. Height, 12
inches. Price,
17/6.
i
FISHING SUBJECT.-Signed Replica,
2ft. high, £5/5/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Pears’
XMAS
1912
Annual
The twenty-second issue of PEARS’ ANNUAL is the
expression, as always before, of the very highest modern
attainments in light literature and pictorial art.
Six eminent living writers, touching the imagination in
vivid and varied styles, contribute new stories in their
best manner.
Their names guarantee their work:
SIR H. RIDER HAGGARD,
SIR A QUILLER COUCH,
GEORGE R. SIMS,
MRS. FLORA A. STEEL,
FERGUS HUME, and
ROBERT BARR.
Artists of similar distinction interpret the stories in a
series of delightful illustrations :
FRANK DADD, R.I. CHARLES PEARS,
R. CATON WOODVILLE, WILL OWEN and
CYRUS CUNEO, R.C.I.
|PSft“ Two humorous full pages in colours,
facsimile of the original drawing by W. Weeks.
=Three exquisite=
Presentation Plates
in large size for framing.
1. Happy as a King, 2. A Rustic Beauty,
V/. COLLINS, R.A. W. AFFLECK.
3. Dined, not wisely, but too well,
J. SHAW CROMPTON, R.I.
reproducing with fidelity the full range of colours of the
originals, and fit for the walls of the most refined homes.
The whole in a beautifully coloured and illustrated cover.
Sold by all Booksellers. Agents for Australasia . GORDON & GOTCH.
Renewed Health and New Life for All
A delicious wine tonic, restorative, blood maker and nerve food that
is recommended by over 10,000 Doctors and thousands of Nurses.
X
\
\
' \
•jM
;K‘.S
hi
i
mm
mm
When you consider what your health
means to you, when you realise that it is,
perhaps, your greatest asset, surely
you will appreciate the absolute
necessity of maintaining a definite
and safe standard of physical and
mental fitness.
Unless you do so, any extra
'exertion, any extra
worry, will not only
cause that “run
sr ~ down ” and “ out-of-sorts ”
feeling, but is liable to undermine
your constitution and sap your vitality.
If you will take “Wincarnis,” “the
wine of life,” regularly, just for a
few days, you will be astonished
and delighted with the wonderful
improvement in your health, and
the increased vigor and vitality
“Wincarnis” will create.
“ Wincarnis ” will give you such
an abundance of renewed health
and strength that your whole
system will glow and pulsate
with new life.
AAAAAfAAA.
rl
ft
TV
wv
r
is warmly recommended and prescribed
by over 10,000 doctors, men of culture
and keen intelligence —who know
from personal experience that “Win-
carnis” gives renewed health and new
life to sufferers from anaemia, sleep-
lessness, weakness, brain-fag, exhaus-
tion, debility, nerve troubles, and dur-
ing convalescence following a prolonged
illness.
Will you try “Wincarnis” ? You
will be delighted with the way it will
give you renewed health, increased
vigor, greater vitality, reserve strength
and new life. Try just one bottle.
Will you?
WINCARNIS is sold by all Wine Merchants, Licensed Chemists and Grocers.
Australian 8 New Zealand Depot: Fassett 8 Johnson,
5 8 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
COLEMAN 8 CO., Wincarnis Works. NORWICH. ENG.
Sir-
ii
m
mm
•. •
r
g! i :
Business, Robbery, etc.
Of late, Melbourne cargoes from overseas have been
broached so systematically that there is evidently
an organised scheme of robbery afoot. From the
Themistocles a carrying firm humped away, among
other goods, a case alleged to contain several gross
of razors. It was apparently as intact as when the
British packer nailed the lid on, and the brands
were all correct; but nary a razor was inside. An-
other case, of cutlery, contained only 14 packages,
when it should have held 48. A sweeter instance of
nice attention to detail was given when the Ballarat
was opened out. A case of gloves, shipped in Eng-
land, was missing, and the ship’s officers and the
agents were marvelling how it had been carried away
holus bolus, when a motor-body importer _ casually
mentioned that one of his packages, which came
by the same vessel, held fragments of another case
containing cardboard boxes and an odd glove or two.
The thieves had presumably wrecked the case m
opening it, and, fearing early discovery had gone
to the trouble of opening up a motor-body case and
bestowing the wreckage therein. Somebody must
have had plenty of time and opportunity to do the
job in the ship’s hold.
“Billy T.” :It was in Bourke-street. He looked
like Dave down for the Cup, with all his imperfec-
tions and inexperience upon his head. Apparently he
was from Toobeelook, a district to which civilisation
penetrates with difficulty, and where the fashions are
always 15 years late. He walked wide, as if ac-
customed to accommodating a draught horse between
his knees, and he put his heel down first, afterwards
hitting the pavement a resounding slap with the flat
of his paddle. The party with him seemed more ac-
customed to halls of light and haunts of men ; com-
paratively speaking, he was a ball of style. the
latter gentleman was pointing out the gay exterior
of the Theatre Royal to his angular companion,
when the detective walked in between. Here,
sonny,” he said, “you from the wild woods, do you
know this man?” “No,” said Dave, “I dunno him
much.” “Has lie had anything from you? Cnpes,
no!” “Get out. Plaster,” the D. added, addressing
the superior person, “or I’ll put you up for a few
months.” Plaster got out. Then the officer addressed
a few wise, easily-remembered mottoes to the yob
from Toobeelook, ' and bade him beware of kindly,
well-spoken strangers with affluent relatives m rlji
and France. “Cripes!” said Dave, and he waddled
off like a disturbed duck in a puddle. (Not much
in this item— except that Dave is really the bigger
take-down of a bright pair, and is a Collmgwood
native who has never seen Teddywaddy or Toolum-
blook in the whole course of his life. His duty is
to inveigle the back-blocker and win his verdant
affections before the arrival of the Croesus of the
Pacific. After which David is a fellow-sufferer with
the genuine bucolic, whom he subsequently dissuades
from taking action that might lead to the recovery
of their missing money. He is a most successful
operative. As a rule, what the police don t know
is worth looking into.)
“Y Z.”: There have been complaints lately in and
about Toorak, South Yarra, St. Hilda and adjacent
places, of alleged domestics taking office in the after-
noon, staying over-night, and disappearing in the
grey dawn. The happening is so frequent that Chief
Commissioner O’Callaghan is expected to invite an
intelligent officer to investigate and report. this
is not necessary. Flossy, and Fay, and Fanny, and
the other members of the somewhat-soiled sisterhood,
have awakened to the Met that, when down to it and
sorely pressed for bread and board, immediate relief
can be secured bv taking a place as household or gen-
eral” with Mrs. Brown-Smith, enjoying a couple of
meals and a good bed, and then getting out bright
and early when domestic duties are almost due. A
few forged or borrowed, credentials are the only
stock-in-trade required _in the effective working of
this little confidence trick.
* * * *
The S. M. Herald enthusing about the recent
manufacturers’ week: “There is little between blan-
kets and pianofortes that we do not make, anc * a
special word is perhaps due to several most credit-
able displays of agricultural machinery— as good as
could be seen anywhere in the world. In extending
domestic industry we are providing _ work for the
worker under the best possible conditions. Our * ac "
tory legislation leaves very little to be desired, and
the worker is, in nearly all cases, assured healthy
and reasonable conditions of employment. _As he
also takes very good care to assure himself good
wages and short hours, we may at least have the
satisfaction of knowing that the growth of manufac-
ture is not doing anyone any harm.” Shades of
Cobden! For, behold! the manufacturer’s advt.
waxeth fat on the copy file and maketh many con-
versions.
“Inchiquin”: There seems to be a swindle some-
where. The Australian farmer pays 6id. for his
wheat bag. When the farmer sells his wheat the
buyer weighs the bag in. That is to say, the farmer
gets paid for the bag as though it were wheat—
which means that he gets 2jd. for what has just cost
him 6id. It looks a swindle, doesn’t it? Are the
Departments of Agriculture inquiring into this mat-
ter of costly wheat bags, by the way ?
A LAY OF FINAL MUTTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Taking all things into account, there seem to be
wonderful times ahead for the thickly peopled coun-
tries, with still-growing populations, which depend
almost wholly on foreigners for their daily loaf and
their hourly sausage.— The Bulletin.
Room for the Sheep! The heralds blew
Their brazen music down the street;
The people, fed on pumpkin stew,
Gazed on the last fair thing to eat;
The splendid mutton walked in pride,
Bedecked with ribbon, lace and frill,
And armies marched on either side
To save from shame the King’s last grill.
The memories of ancient beef
Were still the poet’s thrilling theme —-
The cow that faded as a leaf
And left the world devoid of cream.
He sang the rooster on the spit,
The fatted swine foredoomed to fry,
And told how ancient molars bit
The meat that filled the crusted pie.
Drear was the cabbage of content,
And sadly drooped the daily bean,
The salad’s Verdant hope was spent,
The turnip’s top was coldly green.
With longing eyes the people saw
The wool-clad food their sires had known,
The last fat cutlets walking raw
To fill the larder of a throne.
On jewelled feet the jumbuck stept,
The heralds blew a louder blast,
As down their whiskers all men wept
To know it was the very last.
Forlorn of meat the sad world lay,
And statesmen’s eyes were pained to see
The final mutton pass away
Like blossoms from the dinner tree.
Room for the Sheep ! The trumpets sang,
And like a solemn passing knell
A heavy-visaged butler rang
The brazen palace dinner-bell.
Boom for the Sheep ! With parsley curled
About it in a verdant ring,
The last brown brisket in the world
Was set in pomp before the King!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


m *
m rr n
1
.■n
WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
an only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
H
' -
LUDBROOK’S STORE
Wonthaggi,
Victoria.
SIR JOHN MADDEN
“ Yamala,”
Frankston, Vic.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
28 Hunter Street, Sydney,
November 28, 1911.
Dear Sirs, —
I am writing to let you know how pleased I am with the Aerogen Gas Machine which
you installed at my home, “Clydesdale,” about three months ago. Everything has been
most satisfactory, the machine proving very simple to work, and also very economical.
The light is excellent, both for ordinary use in the house, and for the billiard table. I
will be only too glad to personally recommend it to anyone.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) GEORGE G. KISS.
“Yamala,” Frankston,
Dear Sirs,— . January 3 1911.
I send you herewith my cheque for the Aerogen Machine which you supplied to me, as
per your account enclosed.
The light is perfect, and the installation the simplest possible and most convenient.
We find that anyone can manage it with care and complete safety, and it has brought a very
definite joy to my house here in the complete banishment of the kerosene lamps. Our
servants are content, and the cost seems likely to be much lessened.
With many thanks, Very truly yours, (Sgd.) JOHN MADDEN.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used -for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH: ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA : A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
C'Ringing for More!
raw
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years * success .
few
m
YHTOMT YEEOVHG at\(\
Wo Mother shou\A \>e vjvWvo\x\, \t
\ sewt ot\ request
gfd
g
fdg
fd
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
gfd
15-17 Market Street, Sydney
THE LONE HAND
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
“D. & S.” FUSES and SWITCHES
Manufactured by
Dorman 8 Smith, Manchester
g
fdg
D. 8 S. Handle Type Fuse
mounted or unmounted, 50 to
3000 amps ("up to 500 amps,
stocked in Australia), for 600
volt circuits. Also in Ironclad
and Watertight Boxes.
D. 8 S. “Damper” Fuses
3 to 40 amps, for 250 volt
circuits, mounted or unmounted.
Also in Ironclad and Water-
tight Boxes.
D. S S. “Thumb” Type Fuses
10 to 50 amps, for 600 volt circuits,
mounted or unmounted. Also in
Ironclad and Watertight Boxes.
Dorman & Smith manufacture All Kinds of Electrical Accessories,
all of which are accepted as Standards throughout Australia.
Their CIRCUIT BREAKERS are the Most Reliable on the
Market. We will illustrate these next week.
We give LIBERAL DISCOUNTS to the TRADE and LARGE
BUYERS. Send us your inquiries. Large Stocks always on hand.
SOLE AGENTS—
D. 8 $. Main Switch 8 Fuses
in Cast Iron Box, for 600
volt circuits.
HAES & EGGERS LTD.
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY
Our LOCAL AGENTS are.* ADELAIDE—Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street; BRISBANE—DEAN & COLLIN , 335 Queen Street
MELBOURNE—Diamond Lubricating & Trading Co. Lid., 396-398 Flinders Lane.


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE. CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Accurate "22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70.
1
You see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rifle is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen '22 Short; twelve '22
Long, and twelve '22 Long Rifle R.F.
cartridges.
Your dealer can quote attractive prices.
Weight, 4ilb.
Insist on Stevens.
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
A DHPHI ID H HII I Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co
* llUIv. 1*• lllßLij Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. (
COST OF PRODUCTION CHEAPENED.
A High-Class Hammerless Cun at a Reasonable Price
PIEPERS are manufacturing One Model only in Hammerless Guns.
This Cheapens the Cost.
fd
gfd
gfd
To be had of all Storekeepers, Gunsmiths and Merchants.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Descriptive Booklet, post free.
Of all Dtalers.
Such a lot depends upon it.
The saddle —if an indifferent one—becomes a s at of
endless anxiety. A physchological moment, and your
theories on pleasurable cycling perchance also your
person are dashed to the ground !
Security moreover comfortable and lasting security
can be found only in a BROOKS.
xJjroo/cs
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
30.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged,
Plates,
Female
.handsome
32 Extra
illustrating
A n a t o my,
Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
BOOKS FOR HOME
BUILDERS AND
CARPENTERS
• Artistic
Homes, 250 Perspective
Views. and Floor Plans,
280 pages (Bin. x llin.),
5/4 Artistic Bungalows,
208 Views, 5/4; Cement
Houses: How to Build,
5/4; Garages: How to
Build,- 5/4 ; Cement: How
.to -Use It, 5/4 ; Practical
Carpentry, 2 vols., 600
pages, 400 illustrations,
10/6 ; Steel Square and Its
Uses, 2 vols., 600 pages,
10/6; Hand-saws and
Their Uses, 2/8; How to
Mix Paints, 2/8.
p*-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous
g
fdgfd
Multiplying-and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the Augers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T w o - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
Tiik Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free an y-
where, with Illustrated Cat alogue of Magic, 2/6.
Mention The Bulbetin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREETMELBOURNE M 1
gdf
FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
Every prospective purchaser of a bicycle should
Study the question of wear.
The quality, design and construction of the
component parts entirely govern this —and upon
them depends all-round efficiency of your mount.
B.S.A FITTINGS h ave been—are—and will always be
the essential factors of the Perfect Bicycle, their wearing
qualities are recognised as being of the highest possible
standard, and have acquired a reputation which is world-
wide. A machine built of B S.A. Fittings once ridden is
appreciated—its many points of superiority become
apparent, and as others have done, you will say—
“ There are none JUST AS GOOD.”
Copy of B.S.A. Handbook sent free.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
g
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres, As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
RNTHONY HORDCRH (&L SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
dfg
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAS Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case,' extra
bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop..
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
7r*
yx
Disinfection of
Stables, Cattle-Sheds?
farm buildings, etc., is most efficiently carried
out by means of Izal Izal kills all bacteria
instantly. Prevents infection. Is a splendid
Antiseptic dressing for wounds. Arrests the
fdg
fd
spread of fevers and disease.
One gallon of Izal makes 400 gallons of
efficient disinfecting fluid. The cheapest form
of health insurance for animals and man.
IZAL is the pioneer- modern high power germicide.
Guaranteed to be of uniform disinfecting power;
twenty times stronger than carbolic acid, yet non-
poisonous.
Mixes equally well with salt, brackish or fresh water.
Write for Free Booklet. “Practical Disinfection."
Agents:
T. K. STEANES,
37*43 Pitt Stract. SYDNEY.


75 Years I
with Coughs t
We have had seventy-five
years’ experience with Ayer’s m
Cherry Pectoral. This makes W
us have great confidence in it I
for coughs, colds, bronchitis, I
weak throats, and weak lungs. A
Auer's
We want you to have confidence
in this medicine also. You cer-
tainly will, if only you give it a
good trial. Ask your doctor
what confidence he has in it.
Sold in three sizes.
Hard colds and cough. 3 often
upset the whole system. The
liver becomes sluggish and you
have constipation, indigestion,
biliousness. Just remember
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills, act
directly on the liver. Dose, only
one pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AVER & CO.,
Dowell. Mass., U. S. A.
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes
GBD
Atb>-
Pipes
SPECIAL SILVER-
MOUNTED.
SUPERIOR TO
ALL OTHER
MAKES IN
AUSTRALIA.
¥
N-
Specially
Designed
for a
Cultivated
Publics’ Taste.
all good
SMOKERS
USE THEM-
8103
—THE WORLD OVER-
ELEY
gfd
Eley Cartridges
ensure —as far
as any cartridge
can ensure
first-rate sport
and gratifying bags.
Among sportsmen and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these:
Eley ‘Achilles’
Deep shell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
Eley Pluto'
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeless
(33-grain) powder.
Eley ‘Zenith’— Deep-shell, gastight,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.) powder.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by A mmunition Dealers & Gunmakers
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY’
on the tube or shell of each cartridge.
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
Si)
m
ma
m
m
1133
m
IQ
as
o
(jjg
m
M
■
KS
is
IS
m
a
m
Sa
Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, alid can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. "JL S.W.
gfd
Too Fat
People.
' Excess fat injures
- your health, irn-
■ pedes your move-
ments, and makes you the butt of your unfeeling
normal-weight friends. People who have been
fat, and are now reduced to jnprmal, think other
fat people ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat injure your health
and endanger your existence, it absolutely destroys
your figure and makes you a ludicrous sight.
Why do you stay fat? “EATCURE” positively
removes excess fat, and will restore your spoiled
figure to decent and pleasing proportions, and is
always a sure and lasting cure-for obesity and
corpulency. A few doses improves your breathing
wonderfully, and the course of treatment will
cure you. RESULTS GUARANTEED.
It is the only successful, arid, at the same time,
harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been discov-
ered. Its efficacy has been undeniably demon-
strated in thousands of successfully-treated cases.
It is totally and absolutely non-poisonous, and can
in no wise work any injury to the general health ;
though it often reduces excess weight by as much
as a pound a day.
YOU LOOK A FRIGHT Nowadays if
You Are Not Properly Proportioned.
Too Thin Women. ]f you
■are flat-ohested.-t h i n, run
down, and straggly- -even
if you never had a nicely-
rounded bosom, Dr. Fa I-
liere’s flesh-food will
build you up and develop
your figure. Does your
mirror mock you? Flesh-
food will remove the faults
-in - your - figure -by rounding
out and developing the de-
ficient places. Put up in
Tablet form, it is easy to
use and pleasant to take,
and, if desired, may be *w
taken secretly. Taken under our directions, it
will work wonders for your appearance.
In many cases bust measurements have been
increased by over ten inches, and the weight over
five pounds weekly. Other cases have shown an
increase, in weight of even a pound a day. The
average bust increase desired is about six inches,
and is readily accomplished. Results Guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to
the thousands of chronically thin women who
have, despaired of ever possessing a presentable
figure, ft is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to
attenuated women.
F sat
WE SUPPLY FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “ FATCURE ” or “ FLESH - FOOD.”
Send 2d. stamp, and say which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
“OBESITY” to fat people and “BUST” to thin ones. Be sure to say which sample you want.
No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. Confidential. Write or call to-day.
The Walworth Falliere Assn,
1103 Ash St., Sydney.
[AIBII.
3
$
Does your property
need re-painting?
The best and cheapest kind of property
insurance is good paint—it lengthens life and
increases value. It is cheaper to re-paint
than to let your property depreciate. The
better the paint the farther it spreads and
the longer it lasts, so, for economy’s sake—and for the finest
finish—have your property painted with the best—made in
England by a House with 152
vears’ reputation—
On sate throughout the
for name of focal agent send a post card to
Lewis Berger & Sons (Australia) Ltd.,
18 YOUNG STREET SYDNEY
•WMOLtSALt OUST*
g
nmi
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—-
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
107 CASTLEREAQH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
fdg
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Tvres and accessories at half usual prices,
Wrire at once, using sufficient postage*
foir Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE. COMPANY.
Dent. a«0, LIVERPOOL*
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
The'Standard Remedy wtueh has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
IB use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
PAGES FOR EYERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
thp rea.ch of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Rowland^
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies. Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this?' property.
Without it the hair becomes d|y, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars trie effect of
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND'S.
67, Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
TIIJK Australian Magazine—THE LONI
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6t1 %
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Superman.
The moulded thoughts of die-cast men
Are hampering my brain ;
They bend the bridge-planks of my ken
Almost to breaking strain.
With law-made, “musts” and moral “don’ts”
That guard each ancient lie,
They seek to chain the strong “I won’ts”
And strangle what is I.
The welded ’ism, the steel-clamped ’ist,
The long-established law —
Ho ! how the little thoughts insist
The big are stuffed with straw.
But ’ism is kith, and ’ist is friend,
The law mv brothers’ place.
How shall I strive for each one’s end,
Yet smile in each one’s face?
The seeming right of yesterday
To-day is proven wrong •
And he who blazes first the way
To-morrow is a throng.
But will the trailers compensate
For old friends tried and true?
My mate was none the less my mate
Because he scorned my view.
Nay, more ! A brave antagonist,
He forced me with dissent,
And at the end must co-exist
In the accomplishment.
For I am not a mere machine
Of unconsidered cost;
I am the is of what has been,
Of men who won and lost.
And as they fought so shall I fight
That haply, as I live,
The supermen may bring to light
The grand superlative.
QUEENSLAND.
E. S. EMERSON.
The Song of To-day.
Sing me a sonnet of sad to-day,
Orpheus, sing me a sonnet, sing,
One that will shatter the idol’s clay,
Orpheus, swiftly the lyre string ;
Man is enmeshed in a thousand schemes,
Trammeled and bound by the “trust” and
“ring” ;
Mammon is God where the woman screams —
Orpheus, sing me a sonnet, sing.
This is the knowledge that men have found,
Sought and found in the vigils lone,
Hemmed by ethics, convention bound,
Deeply bred in the human bone,
Lieth the savagery known of old.
Latent, but biding its time to spring,
Hoarding its strength is the sabre cold.
Orpheus, sing me a sonnet, sing.
Bone of the mammoth with woad and spear,
All have passed in the ages’ van,
Slumbering under the thin veneer,
Lieth the old primeval man;
Power to ravage and power to loot,
Arm for javelin, sword or sling;
Lo, degenerate man, the brute —-
Orpheus, sing me a sonnet, sing.
Clash and clamor of arms; the field
Quivers beneath the squadron’s tread,
Cries I hear where the stricken yield
Life to the blood-birds overhead,
Unto their heritage, pride of race,
Here at thine altar. Mars, they cling;
Stiffening sinew and blanching face.
Orpheus, sing me a sonnet, sing.
These they have given for meed of years,
These for the spans they hold in trust,
Gold they’ve garnered mid siahs and tears,
Souls encased in a cankering lust;
Sing me a sonnet: the world is red ;
Still they to Moloch the off’ring fling,
Children are reared in the bouse of Dread,
Orpheus, sing me a sonnet, sing.
Hallowed by peace in the a ttic bare;
Sing me a sonnet, magician, sing;
Over the crowd and its earking care,
Sing till the hills at their bases swing;
Tamed and led by the trusting child,
I to thy shrine. Madonna, bring,
Meek as the Nazarene, man the mild—
Orpheus, sing me a sonnet, sing.
N.s.w.
L.A.R.
To a Boy Lover.
You are as young as spring leaves barely
green,
As young as frisking lambs but lately born.
As tender grass up-springing in the morn.
You are so young, you cannot reach the
heights
Of love, nor feel the sadness that it brings,
You are a butterfly on trembling wings
That lives on sun and air, and careless takes
The bloom and dew of dawns white magic
wrought,
Nor gives wherefrom it takes a passing
thought.
You are too young for sorrow, life to you
Is but a blossom-tree whereon birds sing.
And death but leaves you gravely wonder-
ing —
And I would place my hand upon your head,
And bless you for the tender boyish way
You loved me—for a year, and for a day.
VICTORIA.
G.J.
The Awakening.
Oat of my dreams I come wide-eyed and
strange,
For I have seen the magic cities sleeping.
All blue and silver ’neath the crystal range
Above whose summits vast god-thoughts
are keeping
The everlasting watch of time and change.
The world of streets and houses tall and grey
Floats dimly by me with its loud wheels
turning.
To-morrow faints with vanished yesterday,
And in my heart a larger light is burning
Of some clear sun that shall not pass away.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


Summer Gowns that Beautify
W 1039.
EVEN THE MOST
HOMELY WEARER.
W 1039. —'Crepe Robe in plain colors,
with faint-striped effect; bodice made in
sailor style, collar bordered latest stripe
crepe, skirt neatly piped from bodice, in-
letting of plain crepe at foot. In striped
vieux rose, grey, sky, navy or brown, in
all sizes 17/11
CARRIAGE PAID on ALL DRAPERY to
ANY ADDRESS in AUSTRALIA.
WlO2l. —Exquisite Robe in white Mus-
lin, blouse finely tucked, inlettings fine
Val. insertion. Broad strap embroidery
across bodice and down skirt, strappings
of embroidery also inlet near foot of
skirt. Ail sizes 42/-
IZOIM
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
Central Square, Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POIIRRI
For Pipe Smokers —POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Blend of Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers —POT POURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH—SO for 4/6, postage 4d. extra; 100 for 9/=, postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA—IOO for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/=, postage 1/6 extra.
Send for my Illustrated Catalogue, post free.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sis
11
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager. .
The Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
Alberts
ROFESSIOHAL
BOOMERANG
“BOOMERANG GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
“PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1/-, post free.
“ ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells,
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds.,4bells, 17/6.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out,; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “ just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
£3) 'e'
ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
|^co,ce|Y
SCOTCH WHISKY
“The Top Notch”
Pre-eminently pure, and of exquisite flavour-
The Distillers C om P an y> Limited, Edinburgh.
SYDNEY-Angel Place.
MELBOURNE—S 2, William Street.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
'r'S-.tel
'yj
Yt
•or A*.
JlVSfcNv
V\\< \N V
\Cn! “ /"' *
rrv;;>
/•',
7>
9 £*>&
“Watershed” Hose.
Perdriau “Watershed” Red Rubber Hose will not burst, peel, leak, or
perish. It is made of selected rubber, strengthened with tested, non-
expanding cotton plies.
“Watershed” Red Rubber Hose is made in 60ft. coils, and is sold at the
following rates: —
■|in. x 3-ply
fin. x 3-ply
lin. x 3-ply
Price List, samples and all details free, on request
8%d. per ft.
lid. per ft.
1/4 per ft.
|^' Rubber Co. Ltd.,
“THE BEST HOUSE FOR ALL RUBBER GOODS,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
fdg
Here comes the Thirsty Weather!
Order in a Sparklet Syphon now, and all through the
hot summer days you will have refreshing, sparkling
drinks always within reach. Delicious aerated water
made in a moment, at home or anywhere—pure, fresh
and ready instantly. It is worth while to be hot when
you own a Sparklet Syphon !
O 0
99 Syphon - 6/6
** Bulbs - - 2/3 dozen
“B” Syphon - 4/-
“ B ” Bulbs - - 1/6 dozen
Your Storekeeper stocks them.
mmmm
<4 A Soda-Fountain on a Tea-tray.
H


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—N0. 1710.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1912.
Piuoji 6d.
ENLIGHTENED!
THE KID: “Spare me days! I know now why they passed this job on to me!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
’‘Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosinan, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some cure as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
epen loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice. •
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short 'Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
imless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS,
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., IjJ/l Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.-—Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and I) Streets. San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 580
— 29th Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey, World’s
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco; Queen City
News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S. A.
Egy vr.—lguace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llonu KOnu. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Hong
Fong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Ac/ents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on;
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at J/16 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6|in. x Hpin., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Hates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
llowe Islands. lOoz. Id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet—otherwise, Boz. Id., and to
10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, \oz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1912.
THE GENTLE ART OF ANTI-
REFERENDUMING.
Last year’s Referendum campaign was char-
acterised by some fairly strenuous lying, but,
in this respect, the struggle which has just
begun promises to beat its predecessor hol-
low. A writer in Sydney Telegraph’s com-
mercial column has shown what we may ex-
pect. In the course of a brief three-quarters
of a column last Friday, he committed him-
self to a collection of mis-statements and
absurdities calculated to alternately stagger
and convulse the merest hedge-lawyer. The
tragedy from Australia’s standpoint lies in
the fact that there are many thousands of
Telegraph readers —commercial men (no-
toriously the most illiterate class, in many
respects, in the community), women, par-
sons, squatters, surf-bathers, Empire-
leaguers, bar-ioafers, temperance enthusiasts,
Christian Scientists, vegetarians, and others
too numerous to mention—who know even
less of law, more especially in its bearing on
political issues, than the callowest of hedge-
lawyers. The besotted ignorance of the
many constitutes the opportunity of the few
whose business it is to defeat, at any price,
the Australian Government’s efforts to con-
trol injurious monopolies, institute the New
Protection, and do generally those things
which it was put in power to do. The
Telegraph’s performance exemplifies inter-
estingly the lines on which it is hoped to
repeat the confidence-trick that came off
with such success in April, 1911.
Here is the easily demonstrable untruth
with which the paper began its remarks: —
The Commonwealth has always had the power to
legislate for the good government of banks, insurance
offices, and trading and financial companies —the last
covering a wide range—as well as for foreign com-
panies. But those powers are not enough for our
present Federal administrators.
The simple answer is that the Common-
wealth has not, and never has had, the
powers mentioned. If it had them, the
present Ministry would not be risking its
political life in the attempt to get the people
to concede them. The Commonwealth can
touch only such institutions as operate in
more than one State. But the concerns
which fulfil this condition are too few in
numbers almost to be worth discussing. In
1907 P. M. Glynn, afterwards Attorney-
General, prepared a memorandum, dealing
with monopolies, for the Deakin Govern-
ment. He pointed out that 33 monopolies
had been reported to the Crown Law Depart-
ment as existing in Australia. Amongst
the articles thus mishandled were bricks,
kerosene, tobacco, confectionery, manures,
trucks, shoe machinery, flour, meat, jam,
coal, timber, sugar, etc.; and he contended that
their proceedings had had a powerful effect
in raising the cost of living. “The majority
of these,” he went on—“in fact, 29 or 30
out of the 33—are within the jurisdiction of
the States 0n1y.... and none can be com-
pletely dealt with without co-operation of
the States, or an amendment of the Consti-
tution.” It is pretty certain that the elec-
tors of Australia did not intend that this
should be so. The framers of the Constitu-
tion never anticipated any such ridiculous
anomaly. Moreover, Parliament firmly be-
lieved, when it passed its various Anti-Trust
measures, that it had “power to legislate
for the good government of banks, insurance
offices, and trading and financial com-
panies.” But the High Court decided other-
wise. In Appleton’s case the usual
conservative majority of the Bench laid it
down that, by virtue of the States’ right,
under the Trade and Commerce clause, to
completely control their own internal busi-
nesses, it was not allowable for the Federal
Parliament to interfere in the remotest de-
gree with any trading or financial company
which had once commenced operations. As
the High Court interpreted the Constitu-
tion, the only thing that Parliament could
do was to prohibit a dangerous-looking cor-
poration from starting. All those rings and
trusts which are safely under way at the
present time are as immune from legislative
attack, so long as they confine their depre-
dations to one State, as so many dead Arch-
bishops.
* * * *
Giving direct mis-statement a miss in
baulk, so to speak, the Telegraph passed
on to an idiotic form of objection or argu-
ment or what not that was extremely popu-
lar 18 months ago with Tory orators wher-
ever a few palpably uneducated and foolish
electors were gathered together. A frag-
ment :
The added powers cover all companies, including
mines. What is the use of this State legislating for
gas companies if they are to pass to the control of
the Federal Parliament ? Then the trade in such
companies in the purchase of coal and in the sale of
gas, coke, and so on, and the labor they employ, .
will all be under Federal control, with the right to
declare them monopolies, to take them over, and
dissolve them. We are not at all clear how far the
powers of the Federal Government will extend. Take
the Silverton tramway, the Deniliquin and Moama
railway, the Chillagoe railway, the Emu Bay railway
and various others —they, as corporations, not belong-
ing to the State Government, will pass under the
control of the Federal Government, which may dis-
solve them, and by declaring them monopolies take
them over and run thetn in opposition to the State
lines.
As this paper pointed out, until it was tired,
during the last Referendum campaign, there
is all the difference" in the world between
what a Government may do, and what, so
long as it remains sane, it is likely to do.
There is a Labor Government in N. S. Wales
at the present time, and it has held office
for some years. Within its own sphere its
power is absolute. Legally speaking, it
might, at any time during its career, have
nationalised the Hotel Australia, the Daily
Telegraph Newspaper Co., or a George-
street oyster saloon ; it might have passed a
law insisting on the removal of Dr. Ward’s
whiskers, in which case nothing but flight
would have saved the famous face-covers;
it might have forced everybody to be washed
14 times a day, or contrariwise have for-
bidden anyone to wash at all, or to brush his
teeth, or drink anything but gin and cloves.
Why has the McGowen Administration done
none of these things? For the simple reason
that, with all its multitudinous defects and
weaknesses, it is not composed of lunatics.
Its members are not searching for unneces-
sary trouble. They are on a good wicket.
The toil is light and the pay satisfac-
tory. And they are there, strictly, as the
old phrase goes, quarn diu se bene gesserint.
One really demented or inequitable move, and
they would inevitably be bumped roughly
out of place and power by the scandalised
electors. For precisely the same reasons, the
Federal Government, whatever powers are
conferred on it, is quite certain not to seize
the Silverton tramway, the Deniliquin and
Moama railway, and all the rest; just as the
State Government may be relied on not to
expropriate and nationalise every fruit-bar-
row and grocery and butchery of Australia.
Enough has been said to indicate some of
the impudent means by which the Anti-
Referenda case is seemingly to be buttressed
during the next few months. Part of the
propagandist value of such plain lying and
embroidered misrepresentation arises from the
depressing fact that Fortune leans for so
long to the side of, the courageous and fluent
liar; part from the stupidity of electors, and
their unwillingness to get the hang of any
political ouestion which involves any mental
effort. Between now and polling-day the
Nationalist section will be called upon un-
ceasingly to answer mendacities. The pur-
veyors of the shoddy goods have, roughly,
about 40 newspapers to present them in. for
every on the other side. They have
more money wherewith to hire halls, public-
house balconies, stumps, and so on for the
purposes of having their misrepre°“ntations
distributed by word of mouth. The intel-
lectual resource of their leaders is consider-
able. Almost invariably, last year, the
moment one Anti-Referepda untruth was
felled, another equally bright lie arose and
got to work. If the day is to be gained for
Australia and honest trade, one matter is
clear: an educative campaign must be
started at once. Also, it must be of the most
strenuous description, and its organisers
must stick to business right up to the
moment the issues are decided.
THE FALL OF THE CITY.
Fob the third time in history a Bulgarian
army is at the gates of Constantinople. In
813, and again a century later, the people
whose guns now threaten the old capital of
the Grecian world demanded entrance. In
times past Goths, Avars, Saracens, Crusa-
ders and Turks besieged the place and smote
it with the horror and dread which only an
invested city may know; but it is doubtful
whether ever in all its long history it has
been filled with such an agony of fear as
rends it at this present moment. At any
hour the shells may begin to shriek; at any
hour the maddened people may begin their
orgies of massacre and rapine. The terror
within is even greater than the horror with-
out, and on the appearance of things, all
Europe’s boasted civilisation cannot stay the
tide, or offer protection to the weak and
helpless. Normally, the city has over a
million people; but this throng has been
swelled by an influx of refugees, and by a
horde of defeated soldiers whose miseries
may cause them to throw off even the ap-
pearance of discipline, and from whose eyes,
hard with famine, looks forth an insanity
of fanaticism which demands the solace of
blood. *
It would be very little different with any
other great and overcrowded city should an
enemy knock at its door. The picture of
London or New York invested by alien
armies is almost too awful for the imagina-
tion to dwell upon. The great fear in the
hearts of the starving multitudes, the blood-
lust loose in street and alley, the shrapnel
shrieking through the smoke, all bonds of
restraint broken and every outlet of safety
and refuge closed, the pitiful helplessness of
the masses, the pitiless death ever creeping
nearer and nearer —these are the nightmares
which afflict statesmen in their sleep.
Wherever in the past the red foot of war
has been planted such things have been, and
the past is the only guide to the future. All
the growth of humanitarian feeling is coun-
terbalanced by the tremendous advance in
engines of destruction. Before the march
of armies and the onrush of fighting fleets,
kindly human sentiment fades out, and the
primal savage asserts himself for a red
hour. To talk- of civilised warfare is to
waste breath. No war is civilised when
once the bullets sing; and though there may
be degrees in its horror, the best that it has
to show is enough to make the safest peoples
grave with fearful anticipation.
* * * *
Constantinople, which now rests under
the black shadow, has lung been regarded as
a place of great strategic importance. Its
value may have been overestimated, but
the fact remains that the place is tremen-
dously desired by half a dozen European
nations, who regard it as among the greatest
of territorial prizes. But it does not stand
alone as the first and only prize. The strat-
egy of modern warfare must give highest
place to the question of food supply, and
the outlets of food supply are the places
upon which most of all the world’s eyes of
greed and envy burn. To-day, Australia’s
cities are the food-gates of largest possi-
bility. Behind them lies the widest area of
productive and undeveloped land; and the
statesmen of many nations, both Asiatic
and European, are fully aware of their
immense value. It is no matter of doubt or
controversy, but a plain fact, that the strat-
egic importance of a Constantinople or Gib-
raltar 50, or even 20, years ago is equalled
by that of Sydney at the present hour. The
future is with the nation which holds the
food supply, and the key to that food supply
is something for which nations may be pre-
pared to take enormous risks.. At any
moment —for war moves with speed these
days—the doom may be upon us and the
horrors of Luleh Burgas and Chorlu may
be repeated at Darlinghurst and St. Peters.
Bulgar and Turkish corpses that block the
icy river-bars with their piled and festering
horror are far away, and the trembling re-
fugees in Stamboul can rouse only a distant
pity; but the cause of war—the chief and
first cause of all wars—is here in Australia
in the form of an unprepared nation and a
territory of enormous value. In six or seven
weeks Sydney could be in the condition of
Constantinople ; and, as far as we can judge,
we are about as well prepared to meet the
emergency as a mob of Quakers, armed to
the teeth with the profits of the cocoa trade
and a faith in the efficacy of prayer.
DEMOCRACY AND THE PARTY
GOVERNMENT SWINDLE.
Thomas Carlyle held that the secret of
“best government” was to find the ablest
man and put him in supreme command. Un-
fortunately, the selection of the ablest man
is a matter of such difficulty that life itself
is usually too short for the business of sift-
ing him out; and somewhat able men, of
whom there are many, have so many weak-
nesses, so much shortness of vision in so
many directions, and such a lack of the
blood, honey and iron of the supreme leader,
that Democracy finds it necessary to arrange
a compromise and elect a, number of such
men to do what might conceivably be best
done by one gigantic personality. Yet the
idea of securing the is never wholly
absent, and the ballot-box is a machine
specially devised to enable the united intelli-
gence of the country to select the fittest and
send them to frame public laws and conduct
public business. The health of the body
politic depends upon the true and faithful
working of that machine, and anything
which interferes with it must be a menace
to the community.
* * * *
Australia makes its boast that it possesses
one of the most complete democratic sys-
tems in the world. Every man and woman
has a right to a free voice in the selection of
those who are to make laws for the nation.
Every man in the Commonwealth has a
right to offer his services, and to be chosen
or rejected by the free vote of the electors
In theory at least, Australia should have its
very best political ability always at com-
mand ; but, unfortunately, Party Govern-
ment is on hand to twist and warp the re-
sults. Nominally, any man may stand for
Parliament; practically only those selected
by small party rings and associations have
any hope. To say that the various leagues
and committees that make the choice select
the fittest men to serve the various consti-
tuencies, is to speak a vain thing which is
against all evidence of recent years. If Aus-
tralia can find no better representatives than
those put forward by party to fight the partv
battle, the country must be strangely lacking
in men of sincere purpose and strong intel-
lect. As a plain fact, the amount of petty
intrigue and string-pulling necessary to
obtain party nomination affords almost a
guarantee that the best men will not be
chosen. Under an open system, free from
party influence, the people would at least
have wider choice and some reasonable hope
of electing the best men offering; under the
party system by which democracy is bound
and gagged, there is a big and ever growing
chance of electing men who are as unfit to
conduct the affairs of the nation as a Syd-
ney landlord to sit on a decentralisation
commission.
Further, the system of party selection
makes it possible for the incapable legisla-
tor and political waster to make a fairly
good showing on a platform. Men who could
never think out a serious political problem
for themselves, who have a superb ignorance
of economic questions, history and affairs
and who possess neither opinions nor princi-
ples,_ can talk an audience into a moribund
condition in elaborating the planks of a plat-
form supplied them ready-made. That plat-
form is the growth of years; and each in-
capable, taking his cue from the few
stronger minds of the organisation (many of
whom cannot themselves secure selection as
candidates), acquires by constant practice
a glib facility in expounding a few stere-
otyped ideas which may often pass for
ability and the voicing of deep convictions.
Outside that platform his mind is a blank ;
and were he compelled to state a policy of
his own, and give a reason for the faith that
is in him, he would be known of all men
for the fool he is. That very test which
would reveal the strong man of grip and
knowledge is the one which party
system the electors cannot apply.
* * * *
Party Government thus adds to its sins
in the direct field of legislation and adminis-
tration the crime of robbing democracy of
that freedom of choice which alone can give
it health and vitality. It takes away the
citizen’s right to offer his services to the
nation, and stand or fall by the opinion the
electors may form of his integrity and
ability. It corrupts and confuses issues by
building up large professions of political
faith, about many of whose articles there
is room for infinite diversity of conscien-
tious opinion, and imposing those professions
in their entirety upon every member off the
party. In a word, it takes away the rights
of the citizen, both as elector and candidate,
and warps and narrows the free political
thought of the nation. As a return for all
this, it offers the public an occasional reform
after long and vexatious delays and hun-
dreds of stupid and utterly useless compro-
mises which satisfy no one. The formation
of a new party is often talked of, and occa-
sionally is justified under existing condi-
tions ; but no permanent remedy for the ex-
isting evils is to be found that way. You
cannot cure a cancer by grafting a tumor
upon it, or keep foxes out of a fowlyard by
introducing ferrets. Party Government is
too serious a disease for a palliative. It
is not merely crooked and deformed; it is
venomous and destroying, and the people of
this Commonwealth will not know what true
democratic government is until they refuse
any longer to keep the animal on the
premises.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Jubilee of Lost Opportunities.
The city of Bathurst (N.S.W.) celebrated
its jubilee last week. There was a proces-
sion through the streets, and several of the
industrial and historical features of the
place were symbolised after the customary
fashion. The organisers omitted, somehow,
to present the figure of a Geebung riding
on a rail; there was no representation of a
typical N. S. Wales Ministry being boiled
in oil; there wasn’t even a set piece casting
scorn on the differential railway rate system
which has done so much to make Bathurst
the stagnant place it is. Admirable good-
feeling and generosity this; or perhaps it
only signified lack of capacity to appreciate
the infamously selfish way in which Bath-
urst has been treated by those who have
made it their business to bloat Sydney. In
the dim past Bathurst promised to be some-
thing considerable in the manufacturing
line. A fiscal policy framed with an eye to
the interests of the Sydney importers killed
all hopes in that direction; and when the
Federal tariff, for what it was worth, came
into operation, a railway policy, framed
largely by Sydney for Sydney, slew Bath-
urst’s prospects some more. The Year
Book of Austbalia (1900 and 1911)
shows that during the 10 years in which
the population of Ashfield grew from 11,607
to 14,329, of Canterbury from 2426 to 4226,
of Balmain from 23,475 to 30,076. of Mar-
rickville from 13,507 to 18,775, and of other
Sydney suburbs in proportion, Bathurst
swelled with painful gradualness from 9162
to 9223 —a matter of 61 inhabitants. De-
spite the extraordinary prosperity of recent
years, and despite the fact that the different
State Governments have been deluging Aus-
tralia with immigrants, so that house-
famines are raging in most of the big coastal
cities. Bathurst stands more or less where
it did. The bulk of the business which
ought to be done locally is done in Sydney
and environs, with the natural result that
the district loses not only cash but those
human assets which it can least afford to
sacrifice. This is the ingenuous way a
Sydney morning paper put it a day or so
ago:—
A good many of the bright boys of the up-country
towns come down to Sydney, naturallv enough. What
else are they to do? Sydney is growing so much


Xo Agents:
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1912
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations by “Hop,” Alf Vincent,
Norman Lindsay and all the leading represen-
tative artists, will be the finest Black and
White Work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the National humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the
annual reflection of the life and thoughts of our
country, and therefore useful as well as inter-
esting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates,
but, in consequence of the heavy outlay on tli s
Special Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
As we have received orders for the greater
part of this issue, we would remind agents
that all future orders received will be treated
in order of priority.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign Addresses, 9d.
faster than almost any other part of N. S. Wales
that they are much more likely to find an outlet and
promotion here.
And with quaint fatuousness the journal
proceeded to applaud the efforts of the coun-
try technical college, inasmuch as it “at
least helps a young fellow to come down to
fhe metropolis with some wage-earning
skill.” It is of no use whatever to places
like Bathurst that their bright young men
should be systematically drained from them
into “the metropolis.” In fact, to avert
that calamity they ought to be prepared to
fight like Bulgars. One means to the end
is the formation of a genuine Country
Party—an organisation pledged to battle
for the backblocks as against the Port
Jackson octopus, irrespective of the two
more or less fraudulent factions which are
represented in Macquarie-street. Such a
body would oppose any candidate who didn’t
declare for decentralisation and the imme-
diate opening up of the starved ports of
N. S. Wales. It would make railway • re-
form one of its planks—reform in the mat-
ter of the swift transport of stock and pro-
duce to the nearest coastal outlet, and re-
form in the matter of freights and fares.
In brief, it would aim at making the aver-
age country centre go ahead, in the way of
prosperity and population, as fast, at least,
as the average cheap Sydney suburb. Pend-
ing its arrival the bright youths of places
like Bathurst will flee from them, for there
will be nothing else for blight youths to do.
♦
The Farmer, and, Incidentally, His
Man.
Thebe is an uproar in Victoria amongst
the farmers, because the union of laborers
—called the Rural Workers’ Union —has
given notice that it intends to ask the Arbi-
tration Court to make an award. This in-
formation has had about the same effect on
the farmers as a kettle of boiling water
poured down an ants’ nest has on the ants.
In the midst of the commotion a union has
been formed; in fact, several unions, the
most important being the Rural Producers’
Association. A characteristic meeting of
one of these bodies has been held at Nhill,
which is the heart of the Wimmera wheat-
growing area. It considered the demands of
the Workers’ Union, and met them with
something like dynamite. The workers, for
example, asked for eight hours a day, or
48 hours per week. The “producers” re-
plied with “60 hours in harvest, 50 in win-
ter.” The “producers” went right through
the rest of the schedule, and decided to op-
pose every item but one, which related to
time and a half for holiday work. Now,
what do they think they will gain by this
mulish attitude? The truth is, farmers, as
a class, need to get a few stupid notions out
of their heads. For instance: (1) The
notion that the farm hand is an unavoid-
able nuisance, to be “kept in his place”;
(2) the notion that the world, and all that
is in it, was made solely for the farmer;
(3) the notion that the farmer isn’t a
‘‘worker” himself. In place of those old
ideas, which are decayed, the following are
offered: (1) The farm hand, if well paid
and looked after, will more than pay for
his wages; (2) the farm hand is a man,
just the same as the farmer himself; (3)
the “worker,” instead of being the farmer’s
enemy, is his best customer; (4) better
wages and conditions for labor in the coun-
try have got to come. The farmer, having
to sell most of his wheat in the world’s
market, complains that he cannot raise
prices to meet increased expenditure. But
he overlooks the fact that prices have raised
themselves of recent years, and promise to
raise themselves still more in the future.
He forgets, also, that the price of land is
always moving up. And therein lies more
than half the trouble. Thousands upon thou-
sands of men are land-jobbers first and
farmers after —a long way after. They are
more concerned about pushing up the mar-
ket value of land than getting a living by
cultivating it. Aiming thus at dear land,
they are almost of necessity driven to bar-
rack for cheap labor. So the thing goes on :
Brown sweats his labor, shows a big profit,
and sells out at an extravagant price, know-
ing quite well that he will not be able to
sweat the labor indefinitely. Smith, who
buys, is almost driven to practise sweating
because of the extravagant price he has
paid. High-nriced land is the major curse ;
and that farmer who, being a land-jobber
firs!,, aims at high prices is the enemy of
-the industry, inasmuch as he is doing some-
thing that tends to drive good workmen out
of the business. The general community
has a lot of kindly feeling for the farmer ;
but it and every court or other authority
which handles the farmer’s affairs will
blunder very seriously if it doesn’t distin-
guish between the farmer who is primarily
a land-jobber, or a would-be land-jobber, and
the one who is essentially a producer, aim-
ing to make a living not by selling land but
by using it. The former’s schemes can’t be
discouraged with too sharp or heavy an axe ;
the legitimate farmer, on the other hand,
deserves to have his bed made very com-
fortable.
A Foreign Minister’s Limp Back.
Minister for Foreign Affairs Thomas,
whose supineness in the Poon Gooey affair
made the White Australia policy look ab-
surd, is up against more cases of a similar
kind. The bland Chinee, trying hard to get
some of his womenfolk in here, is ready with
all sorts of artful dodges, A Chow woman
recently arrived in Australia to meet her
husband at’Bendigo. Josiaii Thomas gave
her permission to stay for three months, be-
cause, “if he had not granted this permis-
sion, she would have had to go back by the
boat in which she arrived” —the precise thing
she should have been requested to do. When
the three months had expired somebody
asked that she be allowed to stay six months,
as had been done in other cases. The Min-
ister again meekly gave in. Then, later,
came the doctor’s certificate that the woman
could not travel, and, of course, six months
extra was asked for. And Thomas, finding
himself now in a cleft stick, practically had
to say Yes—all through his slack adminis-
tration to begin with. There is another case
in which John was told that he could bring
out his wife. Instead, he brought out some
other woman and somebody else’s daughter.
At time of writing the doctor’s certificate
stage has been reached in this flagrant case
also; likewise, foolish people were writing to
say that the ends of purity or something
would be frayed if the Minister drove the
lady away. Certainly the Minister says he
is going to be firm; but it begins to look as
though it will be necessary to freeze him
first.
Honorary Hospital Management.
The inquiry into the management of Mel-
bourne’s Infectious Diseases Hospital still
wanders along. The committee goes on de-
clining to be represented at the inquiry, or
to give evidence on its own behalf, or to
admit that it is in any way concerned in the
matter. It is nothing, it seems, to these
Bumbles to have witnesses swear that at
the institution under their control the food
is poor in quality, badly cooked and scarce,
and is “thrown” to patients; that bed linen
and clothing are served out unwashed and
dirty; that patients have been admitted as
diphtheritic when repeated serum tests gave
negative results; that patients have been
discharged as cured, and have straightway
conveyed infection to others; that children
who cried for their mothers were smacked ;
that little, dying toddlers, crying through the
night, were unheeded, and were only soothed
on the long journey by older child-patients;
that patients were operated on without the
knowledge of parents, and bodies post-
mortemed without the consent of relatives ;
that the system of isolation was a farce, and
the protection from infection a burlesque;
that patients were taken in suffering from
measles merely, and put into the same beds
with scarlet fever cases—-that, in fact, the
whole place was. run with less care, less
method, less consideration for relatives and
less humanity than an average slaughter-
house or pigeon-shooting match. There
shouldn’t be much -trouble about deciding
what should be done with that committee.
-*
N.S.W. State Government last week laid
up trouble for itself in the P.L.L. Confer-
ence when it forced through the second read-
ing of the Bill to assist the Broken Hill
Prop. Co. to establish iron and steel works
at Newcastle. No less than 14 Labor mem-
bers broke away, despite the fact that the
Bill had been considered in caucus, and had
the Liberals not come to the rescue of the
Government it would have been defeated by
its own followers. That there will be a row
over it among the Labor leagues is certain.
In the first place, it is the Labor policy to
establish State iron and steel works; and,
though the Government says the establish-
ment of private works will not bar the State
from going into the industry, it is dead-cer-
tain that Delprat would never have recom-
mended his co. to embark if he hadn’t got a
more or less definite' assurance that the
Ministry would do nothing. And on top of
that is the fact that the B. 11. Prop, treated
the Labor section so scurvily a while ago,
shutting down the mine for two years rather
than obey an Arbitration award to pay cer-
tain wages—wages which all the other mines'
found themselves well able to pay. That the
Labor Government should give a hand to
such a co. to defeat or even delay an im-
portant feature of the Labor policy is
naturally puzzling the leagues, which will
certainly want to know what is the milk in
the cocoanut.
On the same day that the cable steamer
Silvertown was to begin laying the new
1200-mile Sydney-Auckland cable, news came
by another deep-sea feeder of newspapers
that a San Francisco wireless station, on a
recent clear night, had overheard the flying
gossip of steamers in the North Atlantic,
8000 miles away. Last • week Reuter’s re-
ceived first news of the capitulation of
Nazim Pasiia, commander-in-chief of the
main Turkish army, by the system that can-
not be cut even by an aeroplanist. The
cable —especially the short-length cable —-
begins to look a rather faded investment in
the light of these achievements. The air
is full of shooting dictionary these days, and
the addition of another screw or something
equally unimportant may so cheapen the
wireless system that all deep»-sea cables and
land lines will look like laborious commer-
cial jokes. And when that happens, some
more of the “permanent and reproductive
assets” that have been provided with bor-
rowed money will be due for scrapping. It
looks as though there isn’t any such thing
as a permanent work of engineering nowa-
days ; wherefore no honest people will carry
out any engineering work with a loan which
hasn’t got a solid sinking fund attached to it
for the repayment of the debt.
The proposal of the N.S.W. Ministry to turn
the late Federal Government House into a
museum has roused the S. M. Herald to
such ire that it denounces museums as use-
less and cumbering ornaments, for which the
public has no desire. It pains the Tory
heart that the building has not reverted to
the State Governor, and the idea of using
chambers once sacred to vice-royalty for
storing specimens which may be viewed by
John Smith and his wife has something
about it that is particularly shocking. As
between the practical value of a museum and
of a State Governor, the general public
should have no very great difficulty in decid-
ing. At best a State Governor is merely a
survival of an order of things that has
passed away, and can never by any chance
return. To devote a whole building to him,
however, seems quite superfluous. At most
a room containing a complete array of vice-
regal exhibits should be sufficient to meet the
case. The question as between a museum
and a State Governor is thus reduced to the
simplest kind of mathematical problem. The
whole being greater than its part, a complete
collection of'specimens must be greater than
a single specimen or even a small group of
specimens. It may be true that the people
are not exactly pining for another museum,
hut it is equally true that nobody wants the
State Governor at Macquarie-street for any
purpose which is not inimical to the interests
of larger Australia.
♦
Bruce Smith has been applying a subtle
test to various Labor members, and finds
that they fail lamentably. Whenever he
gets a chance he shakes a popular politician
by the hand and tenderly feels for the corns
which, according to his theory, hard work
should have produced there. Some of them,
he tells us, have hands as soft as those of
women. But if Mr. Smith and his kind
could spare a moment from the horror of
this discovery, they might well consider an-
other little matter to which their attention
is hereby directed. The sense of touch is
one of the joys of life, and that sense is
most finely and keenly developed in the
tips of the fingers. Has Mr. Smith ever
considered the enormous price which the
worker pays through the loss of that finer
sense? It is a loss almost as bad as semi-
deafness or partial blindness; yet men are
called to suffer it for the barest livelihood,
and superior persons talk about the unskilled
labor which endures it as if it were worthy
only of the barest crust that society could
throw. When Bruce Smith has done fum-
bling politicians’ palms in pretended friend-
ship, he might ask himself whether the world
gives a decent recompense to the men who
are regularly maimed in their most delicate
senses for Bs. a day or thereabouts.
———♦
“Viuilans” : Dr. Dawson, who has been
acting Government medical officer in the
Northern Territory for a few months, has re-
turned to Melbourne and unburdened him-
self to the following effect: —
(1) The problem of attracting settlers to the
Territory is immense.
(2) There is no hope, bar Buckley's, of attract-
ing them, without a proper railway system.
(.3) The weather is hot day after day.
(4) The mosquitoes are annoying.
(5) It is too hot for navvying by whites.
(6) The cost of building the railway trunk line
by white labor would be too great. The natural
course would be to indent colored labor.
(7) The health of the residents is remarkably
good; but there are too few grandchildren of' Terri-
torians to judge whether the type would deteriorate
in the course of generations.
(8) The pioneers are a splendid lot of bushmen,
hospitable and courageous. ' <
(9) Pity there are not more of them.
As for the weather, no doubt it can be hot
in the N.T.; but the harder you wofk in
that climate the better your health. ,It is
the man who does not perspire freely and
drinks square gin all day that suffers. White
men have been navvying all along on the /Pine
Creek railway. Some have been there for
15 years. Which recalls that an ex-Terri-
torian named Coop is now in Melbourne
after a trip to Europe. He is 81, and looks
51, although he spent 37 years in the North,
droving and squatting. “The tablelands
climate is the best in the world,” he .says.
“For 20 years I never saw a doctor. Couldn’t
if I’d wanted to.” Speaking for myself,
I never had better health in my life than
during my four years in Northern Aus-
tralia. I always lived in the open, and
never had malaria or any other fever. The
transcontinental railway can be built with
white labor, and it must be, to attract set-
tlers. It is because Chows were employed
on the Pine Creek line that the country has
so few white residents to-day. Had those
5000 Chinese who were imported in the
’7o’s been white men, the Territory would
have had a different tale to tell now. It
would be madness to repeat the mistake.
: ♦
“K.” gets a front view of Capital:—
I fell into bad company the other day, and dis-
covered to my surprise that my old newspaper friend
Capital was really glueing himself to the country
instead of fleeing from it. Down Warrnambool
(Vic.) way I discovered that Capital had, during
the last three years, spent £lOO,OOO on a milk
condensery that is now treating 20.000 gallons of
milk daily. A brother of his has also built a big
woollen mill, costing some £30,000 ; and at the
time of my arrival a cousin was just finishing a
fine box-making- factory for the Western district
butter people. A little further inland, near Terang, I
discovered more Capital, which dries milk into
a powder and is exporting the product. This factory
cost about £20,000. ■‘Going thoughtfully on to
Camperdown, I found a new casein factory, and
heard of another at Cobden, nine miles away. On
top of this, I heard of the start of a large bacon
factory. All of these outbreaks have occurred in the
electorate (Corangamite) of Labor-member Scullin.
If Scullin is re-elected again next year, I’m d:s-
tressed to think what Capital may do. Already, in
expectation of it, I hear that he is considering
the question of enlarging the woollen mills and the
condensery, and thus making it still harder to clear
out. In fact, I’m beginning to suspect that Capital
doesn’t want to clear out.
«
“Hamer” : The time-payment person—
male and female —doesn’t allow many op-
portunities of doing business to escape. The
citizen who desires to extend his liabilities
over long periods can do it in pretty nearly
anything from coffins to cough mixtures.
The t.p. funeral is now a long-standing in-
stitution ; dentists announce that teeth are
sold on extended terms ; and the latest t.p.
person I have struck is a midwife, who sup-
plies her services on the long-distance plan.
She has found the schekie so successful that
she has established a staff, and the whole con-
traption is kept busy throughout the year.
The baby bonus has afforded this enterpris-
ing S. Gamp an opportunity for advertise-
ment and profit. She has notified her
clients that as the fiver may come in handy
for many things she has decided to con-
tinue the t.p. system to those who desire it,
but that in future her charges on such terms
will be slightly increased. The Australian
has a fine opportunity now of passing his
life in the cool shadow of the promise to
pay. He may be born —heir to a substan-
tial share in the National I O U —under the
auspices of a time-payment nurse, and a
doctor who is paid on very long terms, if at
all. He will sleep in a time-payment cot,
and probably wear time-payment clothes
purchased from the obliging firm which is
willing to supply even clothes on the pay-
when-you-can system. His own furniture,
when he blossoms into manhood and matri-
mony, will be t.p. furniture, and so will his
teeth, and his periodical suits. Finally, he
will be put into a t.p. coffin and buried on
terms extending over six months to await
a t.p. resurrection. The growing ramifica-
tions of the system would seem to indicate
an amazing amount of honesty amongst the
people, or the reckless increase of credit
Get Work.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On one fine but fatal morning in the early
Eocene,
Lo, a brawny Bloke set out to dig a hole;
First of men to put a puncture in the ter-
tiary green
Was this early, neolithic, human mole.
Gladsomely the toiler hefted his ungainly
wooden spade,
As he scarified the bosom of old Earth ;
And our Progress forthwith started when
his first spade-thrust was made,
While the cult called' Work, or Graft, was
given birth.
Oh, he flung the clods about him with a gay
and prideful jerk,
Did this bright and early anthropoidal
Bloke.
With the crowd that gathered, goggle-eyed,
: f . to wathh him at his work
He would crack a pleasant, prehistoric
joke.
And, they gazed at him in wonder; for the
custom of the mob,
When not occupied in inter-tribal strife,
Hitherto had been to eat, and sleep, and
hunt, and cheat, and rob —
Quite a simple and uncomplicated life.
Wherefore, being new and novel, he was
treated with respect,
This, inventor of the job of shifting sand :
And with fresh-killed meat and fruit and
furs his cave the tribesmen decked.
While his praises sounded high on ev’ry
hand.
And the chieftain bade his artist in crude
pictures to inscribe
On the shin-bone of a Dinosaurom.vth ;
“ Lo, the gods have sent a thing called Graft
to bless this happy tribe,
And a scheme of Public Works will start
forthwith .”
Ev’ry day, from early dawn till dark, the
delver labored on
Till the tribesmen grew accustomed to the
sight;
And the hunters, on their way to slay the
mud-fat mastodon,
Would delay to say he wasn’t doing right.
And the loafers from the Lower Caves, who
lived by stealing meat,
All the day around the contract used to
lurk ;
And, whene’er he paused to wipe his brow
or took time off to eat,
They would yell at him in chorus : “Aw,
git work !”
Fat and lazy fur-skin-traders —wealthy men
of such a size
That it took five hides to make them each
aves /
On their way to cheat their neighbors,
paused awhile to criticise;
Calling, “Loafer!” ev’ry time he stopped
to rest.
They no longer stocked his larder with the
trophies of the chase,
Or the neolithic substitute for beer;
For the chief said: “He’s a worker; we
must keep him in his place!”
And the bloated fur-skin-traders cried,
“Hear, hear!”
And he soon became the scapegoat and the
butt of all the tribe,
And lie dwelt within the smallest, meanest
• cave,
While the rich and idle troglodytes were
readiest to gibe,
, Till they worried him into an early grave.
Then the minstrel (and I wot he was a wise
prophetic bard,
And an anthropoid philosopher of note).
Took another mammoth shin-bone and
scratched it with his shard
In his picture-script; and this is what he
wrote: —
“Here lies the simple silly coot who first
discovered Toil,
Him who started Progress onward on her
way;
Though he didn’t get much fun from it, he
moved some tons of soil:
But, ’tis said, he never fairly earned his
pay.
Lo, this thing called Work is blessed, for it
shifts a lot of sand !
And f this Progress eases him who lives by
tricks.
But the Bloke who lumps the Bundle, down
through ev'ry age and land,
Shall be paid for harder work with, harder
kicks.”
Now that Paleolithic prophet on some sand-
stone stratum lies,
With his shin-bones of the Dinosauro-
myfh,
But the Bloke who shoves the shovel still
his thankless calling plies,
And his name is Michael Burke or
Peter Smith.
In the highwav doth he labor, in the search-
ing uublic gaze,
And he dare not pause, his aching back to
rest,
Lest he cause a howl of protest from the
trader of these days
With the large gold chain across his con-
vex vest.
Lest he cause a howl of protest from “Pro
Bono Publico,”
And Pst “Constant Reader” cry his shame
aloud,
He must keen his shovel moving—-and he
moves it all too slow
For the critics in the great White-handed
crowd.
Till they get a patent navvy with a dynamo
for head.
Or a petrol-tank for stomach, take my
word,
He’ll be ever lip again«t it who shifts sand
to earn his bread,
And the howling of the traders will be
heard.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


gd
POST
CARDS
u
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will
forward you 12 packets, each containing 6 of
our colored and high art POST CARDS, to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have
sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you
may choose from the list of jewellery which
we forward. By continuing the sale of our
cards you can earn a LADY’S OR GENT ’S
SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN. REMEM-
BER, we want to do business with you
again, and to do this we must gjve you full
satisfaction. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. WE
HAVE NO CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER
FIRM. We are the largest dealers in post
cards in Australia, and import our jewellery,
or we could not make you this liberal offer.
Be the first in your district. Our post cards
sell at once, wherever seen.
a<
X¥:
ARRANT’S
Where the Motor Business Booijis—-
104-112 RUSSELL STRF«?t, MELBOURNE.
fig
*5
PIONEERS OP THE CAR IN VICTORIA.
THE LARGEST GARAGE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents in Victoria for
F.1.A.T., FORD, 8.5. A., MERCEDES, F.N.,
AUSTRO. DAIMLER, ADLER, SUNBEAM,
ROVER, COMMER, THORNYCROFT.
Write Us To-Day.
TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Telephones—3o3o, 2942, 6534, 6280.
66
The Extraordinary £lO,OOO Picture,
THE MASSACRE,”
will be shown at the
CRYSTAL PALACE, SYDNEY,
and the
MELBA or BRITANNIA, MELBOURNE,
THREE DAYS, beginning Monday, November 25.
This Picture inaugurates the
American Biograph Co.’s
exclusive service to our theatres.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
which generally goes before a slump. For
a firm to supply furniture on mortgage
seems reasonable enough. The furniture
remains (unless it is burned, or the old man
breaks it up in a fit of beer) as a security
for the payment of instalments—at least it
remains till it is worn out, and then the re-
mains of it are of no value to man or beast.
But it would be very little satisfaction for
an undertaker to foreclose on a corpse
(though this sort of thing used to be done
in Ireland, and Venice once levied a tax on
dead bodies), and the time-payment nurse
might find herself in a difficulty if parents
offered to surrender the baby in liquidation
of the deferred nursing account. These
people must depend solely on the honesty of
their clients.
The following statement has been sent to
The Bulletin with a request that it may
be given due publicity:—
We, the of the Society of Friends in
Victoria, desire to re-affirra our belief that it is only
by just dealing, the recognition of human brother-
hood and the interdependence of nations that last-
ing peace can be attained, and this we believe to be
possible. It is our conviction that all preparation for
war engenders distrust and separation, weakens the
sense of brotherhood, and, in place of just dealing,
sets up reliance upon force. As followers of Christ
we know no enemies and are content, should mis-
understanding- or'other circumstances place us in
positions of difficulty or danger, to rely wholly upon
Divine; protection ; and, in the case of international
disputes, to use the medium of arbitration rather
than force. We declare our uncompromising re-
sistance to the Commonwealth Defence Act in its
violation of conscience, and shall do all within our
power to secure the repeal of the compulsory
clauses ; and we would appeal to our fellow-Christians
to unite with us in combating the growth of mili-
tarism, which is essentially antagonistic to the
growth of the Kingdom of God, the foundation of
which is peace and goodwill amongst men.
In reply whereto The Bulletin takes its
friend the Quaker by the collar and pours
this into his ear :
The yarn sounds very nice and sweet and
Christian, and all that a manifesto from the Society
of Friends should be ; but it is in plain fact about the
most dangerous, blood-thirsty and peace-destroying
sort of document which could well be conceived. If
the, nations of the world were actually in a condition
of profound peace and had forgotten the art of war,
there might be something in the contention that
warlike preparation made for distrust and separa-
tion ; but, as the distrust and separation are there
already, and as all nations stand armed to the teeth,
the perfectly logical conclusion is that thorough
preparation for war is the one thing that can secure
permanent peace. Again, followers of Christ are
stated to know no enemies, and to be willing to rely
entirely on Divine protection. Do the members of
the Society of Friends leave their doors unlocked at
night and trust to Divine protection against the
Melbourne burglar? Again, the appeal to arbitration
rather than force is in every way to be desired ; but
all experience shows that only those who have a
sufficient force to give backing to their demand for
arbitration can be sure of a fair deal in any inter-
national court. Finally, the Society of Friends, in
its uncompromising resistance to the Defence Act
and its declaration that militarism is opposed to the
growth of the Kingdom of God, is lumping together
two ideas that are as opposed to one another as
light andjidarkness. The Kingdom of God is alleged
to have been steadily growing for 1900
years, yet that growth has done nothing to check
armaments, and the spirit of militarism is most
evident where there is most profession of Christian
principles. On the other hand, the Commonwealth
Defence Act is a direct blow at militarism in its
demand that each man shall be soberly trained to
defend his home. Militarism ramps and yells where
professional armies are trained to lust of conquest;
militarism declines where a citizen soldiery is
taught to regard war as a hideous evil, which only
by their efficiency they can prevent.
Plainly put, the Society of Friends desires to see
Australia left at the mercy of any foe which may
envy the Commonwealth’s possessions. The Society
wishes, by encouraging the nation to negligence of
the means of preservation, to make war of the most
dreadful kind not only possible, but certain : to ex-
pose every family in this continent to the degrada-
tion and horror which have, during the last few
weeks, been making themselves grimly felt in Eastern
Europe, and to throw the biggest temptation to
international crime in the road of those other mem-
bers of the “human brotherhood” who have their
guns ready and their marching boots laced. This
may be Christian sentiment, but it looks much more
like the spirit in which the Devil is supposed to
do business. In the New Testament there is a plain
statement, which it might do the members of the
Society of Friends good to copy out and paste in
tii6]r iia,ts • 1
Or what king, going to make war against another
king, sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether
he be able with 10,000 men to meet him that cometh
against him with 20,000.” —Luke xiv., 31.
The words are recorded as having been uttered bv
Jesus Christ, and they explain the whole basis of
the Commonwealth defence system. Our men are
being trained— or ’ rathcr > our boys are, and our men
should be—to make any possible foe sit down and
count the cost of an Australian invasion. If our
preparations are forceful enough, he will keep sit-
ting .down all the time; and if to make a foeman
sit down and not want to fight is anti-Christian in
spirit, then the Friends may have it their own way
and associate with Christian doctrine all the sloth
indolence, suffering, crimes and atrocities that their
manifesto appears to directly call for.
“Fitzjohn’s reproof to “Fitzwilliam” :
I want to chide “Fitzwilliam” (B. 14/11/’l2)
for, the brick he hurled at N. S. Wales Minister
Larmichael s remarks on the University Bill 18.
7/11/12). The Bill, coming as it does after 15
years of strenuous agitation for a more democratic
constitution, even if not perfect, is the best
thing of its kind yet attempted, and, as such, de-
serves the respect of every good Australian.
Fitzwilliam” complains that in an exposition of
the principles of his measure, Carmichael “dodged
most of the specific objections to the University
, , •., y, r J vv what are the “specific objections” other
than (1) the natural fear of the Senate to extinction
by the abolition of life tenure of their office ; (2) ditto
ditto of the University professors (five) on the exist-
ing Senate; (3) the objection of (certain) professors to
free scholarships which will stop fat fees from roll-
ing into the professorial pocket; (4) the objection
of those excellent unionists, lawyers and doctors, to
making entrance to their unions possible to the son
of Demos; (5) the. objection to linking up a con-
servative University with the democratic State
schools by means of the leaving certificate; (6) the
making of the University “a place td gather all
adult seekers after knowledge” instead of main-
taining the tradition which makes excellence an ex-
clusive quality and not a general possession. It
isn’t necessary to dodge objections like these, for
except to tradition-bound troglodytes, so to speak,
the answers shriek themselves into one sentence:
The University must be a process for carrying out
the social purpose of the adult world, and must have
the same purpose as the schools—the increase of
human wealth.
If “Fitzwilliam's” inferences and deductions are
not more reliable than his facts, he had better re-
turn to his cave. Dr. Cole, whom he quotes as a
member of the teaching staff at Harvard, has been
Vice-Principal of the Sydney Teachers’ College for
the past several years. (Anyway, it was Columbia,
and not Harvard, that he adorned.) But whv auote
two cases? Everyone admits that the Sydney Uni-
versity has turned out many brilliant scholars. The
complaint is that through want of opportunity there
are not more. Last year, with a State population
of 1,650,000, only 211 students were admitted to
matriculation at the Sydney University. Taking
the ages at which such students might be expected
to matriculate, there were 135,000 boys and girls in
the State from 17 years to 20, with a similar num-
ber between the ages of 20 and 24. Will anyone
claim for a moment that 211 is a fair proportion of
the young people of the State who are capable of
benefiting by this higher education, or who could
not subsequently find an outlet for its practical
application ?
“Fitzwilliam” derides the idea of Parliament
being represented upon the* Senate. Does he know
that of the first Senate six were selected from the
Legislative Council, including the Speaker, the
Attorney-General, the Colonial Secretary and Went-
worth, Darvall and Stilart Donaldson? Does he
forget that of the present Senate, Barton, Grif-
fith, O’Connor and Cullen, to name a few, were
members of the Legislature, while the Chancellor
himself is a member of the Legislative Council?
(It is no use “Fitzwilliam” saying that the pre-
sent is infinitely worse than previous Parliaments,
or I will quote The Bulletin's reply to the corres-
pondents who say The Bulletin is not what it used
to be.)
Then to come to his main objection, that the
remission of fees is like offering a motor-car to a
man too poor to run it. There are hundreds of
parents willing to strain a point to keep a bright
boy at school or at the University, but who cannot
possibly pay the fees. In America, it is a common
thing for undergraduates to earn enough money dur-
ing vacation to keep them during term. Wood-
chopping, waiting, boot-blacking—nothing is too
laborious or undignified, provided the end is
attained. What would be the life of a Sydney
undergraduate who was discovered by some of the
local University nuts in a similar position? Any-
how, if Carmichael gets a fair chance the proba-
bilities are that he* will ■go farther than abolishing
the fees, and so meet the objection of “Fitz-
william” that “it isn’t the cost of preparation for
a profession that hurts; it is the five or more
unproductive years that are spent in training,” etc.
“’William” is too pessimistic as to the disabilities
of the poor man’s son—too conservative in his views
of future possibilities. However, that’s a common
failing. Who could have convinced our grandfathers
in the trees that not only : would tails be abolished,
but that cocoanuts would merely be useful to the
chemist and the Aunt SalLy man?
Parson F. C. Spurr, of Melbourne, says
the prevalence of crime is due largely to the
fact that “no friendly cat purrs along the
robbers’ backs.” Trust a parson to have
faith in the power of the purrs !
S. E. Fryer, who writes the notice of
Cardinal Moran in the new volume of the
“Dictionary of National Biography,” pro-
fesses to lift the curtain and show how his
subject got his red hat. The Archbishopric
of Dublin was vacant-, and Dr. Moran was
“known to covet it.d The British Govern-
ment was anxious that he should get.,it, be-
cause he was the hephew of the previous
holder, Cardinal Cdllen, a “Castle prelate”
—in other words, a bulwark of law and
order. The Pope, wishing to cultivate
friendly relations with the British authori-
ties, decided to appoint Dr. Moran, and
summoned him from Sydney to Home for
that purpose. But while he was on the
water the Irish Nationalists of Dublin made
it clear that their candidate was Dr. Walsh.
Thus there arose “a Papal dilemma”; and
the Pope, while bowing to Dublin opinion,
made Dr. Moran a Cardinal as a solatium.
The march of the eighteen thousand: —
The cadets have come and conquered, as far as
Melbourne is concerned. No more talk of Saturday
afternoon being kept sacred to Sport! No more
protests against “teaching the young idea how to
shoot.” Eighteen thousand boys have put their best
leg foremost in an inspiring procession, and their
parents, brothers, sisters, cousins and aunts have
been stirred by the show. There wa§ a catch in the
throat all along the lines. The marching was good,
middling and very ragged in places—a satisfactory
average. The companies from St. Itilda and South
Yarra, with a stiffening of public school boys in
their ranks, were the pick of the procession, per-
haps ; but the “working-man” districts of Colling-
wood and Brunswick ran them close. They will all
improve on this first display, which was confined to
the town radius, and seemed to lack the spirit of
emulation. When the Gzar of Russia reviews an
army before breakfast, he concludes the ceremony
by shouting, “You have done very well, my chil-
dren!” And 100,000 voices reply as one, “We hope
to do better next time.”
G.-G. Denman, horSebacked in front of the steps
of Parliament House, was the watchful, silent Papa
who returned the salute of each brown officer of a
brown contingent. As Commander-in-Chief of the
Commonwealth Forces he made quite an impressive
first appearance. The job of returning all those
salutes seemed a labor of love. He was having the
time of his life.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “BenHur.”
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Palace “A Woman of Impulse.”
Criterion “The Gambler's Sweetheart.”
Adklpiii “What Women will do for Love.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial Continuous Pictures.
Empress Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
oSST":":::::::}
Eden Gardens, Manly.. The Dandies.
MELBOCRNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Nightbirds.”
Princess’s “The Girl Without a Home.”
Kino’s “ The Span of Life.”
Royal “ Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda .... The Dandies.
♦
When a lady is rescued, ainrd cheers, from
a river, and comes in as dry as Reid’s dog,
and everybody remarks that she is sopping
wet, and nobody suggests that she should get
out of her clothes into a blanket or some-
thing, and she herself refuses to move from
her chair, on the ground that she wants to
dream over her old memories, there is no
necessity for you to look up an atlas to find
out where you are. You recognise instantly
that you are on the Isle of Melo Drama, far
across the Footlight Sea. And when further
exploration reveals “the papers,” “the
cheild,” and a villain in a silk hat, you will
feel quite at-home, and not be surprised at
anything. For one thing you will notice
that the birthrate in the Isle of Mplo Drama
is always shockingly low. The heroine
always has only one child. What the pre-
sent scribe would like to see would be a de-
serted heroine with seven children, the last
two twins of three months.t The chances are
that she would be just the sort of heroine
a husband would desert. And the villain,
for his sins, should be compelled to marry
her in the first act. But none of these
things happened in “The Gambler’s Sweet-
heart,” revived at Sydney Criterion on Sat-
urday night. As the gambler', Mr. 11. R.
Roberts showed a fine actor wasted in a poor-
part. contriving to make the character
almost human. Miss Maggie Moore was
cast for a part altogether too juvenile, yet
“A WOMAN OF IMPULSE,” AT THE
SYDNEY PALACE.
The Woman of Impulse (Madge Mclntosh)
is here seen fainting. She aims for something
soƒt to break the fall. The something soƒt is
Harry Halley , her drunken and dishonest father.
by sheer art she sometimes managed to con-
vince the audience that she was 17. Good
work was done by Mr. Roland Conway as
the villain, sometimes termed a “cu-he'rr”;
by Mr. Charlie Taylor as a kindly and ulti-
mately penitent understudy in villainy; and
by Miss Edith Lewis as the dry heroine. The
thing was splendidly staged, ‘and the audi-
ence seemed to like it.
The Quaker Girl, aided by her co-religion-
ists and their Parisian friends, is still earn-
ing a good living at Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney). When she decides to go into unre-
productive retirement, the fact will be duly
notified in these pages.
“A Woman of Impulse” arrived at the'
Palace (Sydney) last Saturday. It is the
sort of neatly-constructed play that de-
serves to be welcomed at the box-office,
both for its own sake and that of the com-
pany. The foundations of the melocomedy
are the facts of the cable column. Sir
Matthew West’s son and his expedition have
been swallowed up by Africa, while making
for a place called Malatanga. The sus-
pense is playing up with the health of the
father, who fatuously numbers amongst his
friends an engaging foreigner, one Navourac
This gent, subsequently reveals himself to
the pretty and extravagant Ladv Lang-
ford as a sort of ruthless international spv-
boss. The lady recoils on receiving this in-
formation, and asks him freezinglv what it
has to do with her. She is told that her
noble but busted pa, a trusted official of the
Foreign Office, stffie the Malatadga plans
and sold them to him (Navourac) for £5OOO
thereby enabling a foreign Power to arrange
the extermination of the expedition, includ-
ing Matthew West’s son. To save her
father, she will have to agree to spy upon
and influence her Cabinet-Minister husband
Poor, busted pa wanders in at this moment
The plans, which Navourac has produced to
convince the daughter, are lying on the
table. Pa promptly heaves them into the
Are, and the maddened Navourac tricks the
daughter into writing and signing an ac-
knowledgment of pa’s guilt by showing her
pa’s signature on a perfectly harmless let-
ter. With that document locked away in
Navourac’s safe, and a jealous husband being
prodded towards the Divorce Court by a
death-adder matron with a marriageable
daughter, the life of the Langford lady be-
comes one long brainstorm. Instead of
throwing herself on Langford’s inhospitable
chest, she knuckles under to Navourac and
holds out till the next act, when the news
of the safety of the expedition enables her
to tell the shocking truth. Her priggish
husband believes her with difficulty; pa
obligingly starts dying; and Navourac flies
with the help of Matthew West’s boot.
Madge Mclntosh, as Lady Langford, acts
with distinction and charm, and wears some
noticeable garments. George Bryant, as
Navourac, is impressive and occasionally
thrilling. Gerald Souper does sound work
as Sir Matthew West. Maggie Knight
makes Mrs. Dudley a fluffy and agreeable
drawing-room serpent. Harry Halley’s
Colonel Challace is a likeable old dipso-
maniac. John Forde gets in a few sure
touches as Brentop, of Scotland Yard. And
E. Gilburt Howard (Bertrand) is excellent
in his one scene. Indeed, looking at the
thing in a large way, Richard Bellairs (Sir
George Langford) is the only one of the
first line who fails to convince.
* * * -!'
This is the time of year when the small
boy crouches before an examination paper
and puts ink on his ears, while he dismally
plumbs the awful depths of the accumulated
ignorance of 12 misspent months. “Ben
Hur,” at Sydney Royal, having been bailed
by a few reverends as a valuable and in-
structive play, and the management having
assisted with reduced matinee rates, it is
time to draft an examination paper for the
class in holyhorsedrama :
1. If a stdne. 18in. x 12in. x
lOin. falls from a palace roof
60ft. high on to the head of a
Roman and kills him, how high
will each of his friends jump with
rage? (Note. —The deceased was
good for three drinks per day and
a banquet every three months.)
2. (a) If Ben Hur could row a
galley 1A miles per week, and
stopped to talk about his noble
birth every 10 minutes, how many
miles would he drop behind in a
voyage of 10 months? (b) How
long would it be before the cap-
tain came down and kicked him ?
3. (a) Would it have been more
profitable for Messala’s friends to
have backed him, dh the tote for
his chariot race with Ben Hur
and another?, (b) Why? (Note.
—Candidates 'must give particu-
lars of at least three days’ betting
transactions.)
4. (a) Should Ben Hur have
married Miss Iras? (6) Had she
sufficient grounds for a breach of
promise action ? ( c ) If she had, at what would you
assess the damages, supposing you were on the jury ?
“Cripple Creek” will be dryblown off the
Adelphi premises to-morrow night, and on
Saturday, when everything has been per-
fectly dehydrated, Sydney will have a chance
to become acquainted with “What Women
Will Do for Love.” Most of it knows
already what and who they will do for
money, or a new hat; but George Marlow
promises some additional information.
Jim Jeffries couldn’t come back; Ada
Ward was doubtful; but Will Whitburn
arrived with a rush out of the shadows of
the past. Whitburn is more than a come-
dian; he is a humorist. “Everythin" he
says has a laugh in it—his railway porter
is one huge joke, and his subseonent blither
is delightful. The Rallis and Wilson Trio,
who have been braving the mosquitoes of
Rrisbane, have also come back to the Tivoli.
D’Arc’s Marionettes are in their last nights ;
but Nella Webb, Marini, Burns and Bently
and De Bierre still hold their own. Next
Saturday the Max Franklin Troupe of
gymnasts and the three musical Keltons will
begin to hold theirs.
“Les Rinchs. Lady and Gent.,” have
arrived at the National Amphitheatre. They
frankly own up in their advts. to being
“Daring, Beautiful. Wonderful, Humorous
and Novel,” and the critic is accordingly


■■
m
m
1
>4
'
fg
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
. ■
exclusively. f
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged
’ Phone No. 230 General
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. OAKY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
struck dumb. He is offered the alternative
of giving them the lie direct, or doing the
equivalent of gilding the brass emblems of
pawnbrokery. The rest of the performers
are less self-appreciative, and they are
chiefly revivals. Among them are such tried
and trusty old warriors of vaudeville as the
Gresham Four, Gus Harris and Maud
Fanning.
❖ sfc ❖
At. the Crystal Palace John Bunyan’s
Pilgrim has been progressing over 3500 ft.
of film, to his own and the house’s satisfac-
tion ; and if Bunyan, Esq., has of late been
turning in his grave, this picture is on no
account to Marne. It carries the interest of
the old classic to the last inch. Second and
third places have been filled by “The Charge
of the Light Brigade,” a rather picturesque
cavalry film ; and that portion of “Williams’s
Weekly” which shows Col. Onslow’s tea-
party to “Liberal” ladies and their grown-
up daughters. One could almost hear the
tea bubble at the very idea of an Onslow
being ordered out of the Assembly by a
person-n-n like Willis.
He He ❖ He
“Niglitbirds,” at Her Majesty’s, loses none
of its. naughtiness as the weeks roll on.
Speaking as a mere, modest man, one is
glad to mention that it was a lady who put
so many pinches of salt on the Niglitbirds’
tale, and who endeavored to bring the strictly
respectable Countess Clicquot into line with
the other characters, as it were, by requiring
her to shed a garment early in the proceed-
ings. Had a masculine hand wrought the
libretto one might have felt expected to
cough for his sex, whereas lie can now laugh
with pure, unsullied glee at the lady-writer’s
little jokes. The ballet, with Miss Talleur
as toe-dancer, continues to give pleasure to
all, and the souls that are filled with the
melody of Strauss’s music have no ears for
the dubious moral tone of the Turkey-trot
and Bunny-hug.
** * *
Melbourne Princess’s is now the roaming
ground of “A Girl Without a Home.” None
of the other ladies, for that matter, are
troubled with household cares. The villain
has an extraordinary villa residence where
all the characters come and conspire with
him, or scorn and defy him ; and a money-
lender has an office opening into the street
which is a temporary place of concealment
for the godly and the ungodly alike; also,
there is a mysterious corner pub that serves
as a sort of rabbit warren for the full
strength of the co., though in a general way
the sons and daughters of Ishmael walk
about the streets of London and meet one
another by accident.
No air of possibility blows into this riot
of circumlocution from first to last. If any
sort of reason is offered for certain happen-
ings, the circumstances of their occurrence
are always fraught with madness. The long
arm of coincidence shoots forth mechani-
cally, biffing common-sense in the jaw every
time it looks for an explanation. Dramas
built by deplorable Mrs. Morton Powell and
her kindred balderdashers. are not, however,
intended for audiences of moderate intelli-
gence. Such entertainment is for the few
who want nothing better, and these were too
few to crowd the house even on the first
Saturday night of the present production.
The mounting and acting of George Mar-
low’s shows will attract the larger and less
unenlightened public when they are associ-
ated with better-class material, and the
world is aware of the improvement. Under
existing conditions, the co. and the scenic
artists cannot count for anything to speak
of. Hugh Buckler, coming in fancy convict-
costume to a police station, where he is tried
for wilful murder and sentenced to penal
servitude for manslaughter, is the limit of
absurdity. A street fight between Miss Har-
vey and Miss Mortyne (the. latter of whom
spends most of her stage time in drunken
assault and battery) is a revolting farce.
Fortunately, all the dramas on the Marlow
list are not like this. “The. King’s
Romance,” now in rehearsal, is said to be
one of the best.
** $ *
The gentle boobs of Battlesburg continue
to be taken down by design and uplifted by
accident. They certainly don’t deserve their
uplifting. The community, ranging from
Ediie Lamb to Judge Lampton, that could
shut its eyes to the transparent wiles of
Wallingford and gather confidence from the
comic-relief antics of his pal Blackie Daw,
should have been fleeced, skinned and quar-
tered without the option of a fluke. In the
face of this criminal libel on Yankee uncute-
ness,' nobody should complain that the ex-
portation of “On Our Selection” will be a
bad advertisement for Australia. Dave and
Dad and Sarah strike one as being intellec-
tual giants compared with Eddie Lamb and
the older members of the Universal Covered
•Carpet Tack Co. There have been some
-changes in the boobocracy of Battlesburg
since “Wallingford” came to Melbourne
Royal. Beatrice Holloway’s promotion to
•the part of type-writing girl, in place of the
invalided Miss Cohan, has brought Enid
Bennett into the shoes of the verdant young
creature who plights her troth to Blackie.
Also, a new boob has taken over the ’bus-
driver’s job from Fred Cambourne.
This is the third or fourth week of The
Span of Life,” at the King’s, and still that
hardy melodrama is waiting for its notice to
quit. The camel of the desert, and the
Arabs who yell at the bidding of Dunstan
the Deceiver get through their nightly duties
in the smoothest way possible; but the
human bridge has episodes of unwonted lum-
piness. Then the lady who isn’t. Miss
Duggan finds it hard to keep her footing on
the curved spine of the middleman. One
night last week she seemed in a fair way to
wobble off into the chasin; so the curtain
came down suddenly and hid her agitation.
*** * ?
Gregan McMahon is staging Shaw’s “Man
and Superman,” at his next Repertory
Theatre innings in Melbourne. The mysti-
cal third act doesn’t matter, for it is never
played in either professional or amateur
productions. The first, second and fourth
acts give the whole story consecutively, and
the introduction of the essential motor-car
is the only serious difficulty the manager has
to deal with. “Man and Superman” will be
played on the 6th and 7th December, at the
Athenaeum Hall, and a revival of “The
Pigeon” is to happen on the 7th, with Shaw’s
“Dark Lady of the Sonnets” as curtain-
raiser or afterpiece. At Christmas time the
Repertory Co. will get a holiday trip to
Tasmania, thanks to Edward Branscombe.
Branscombe, who has the theatres, and is
taking all the fisk, has engaged McMahon
and the whole co. to show' for three weeks
in Hobart, and one week in Launceston.
They take six plays, “Chains.” “The
Pigeon,” “Man and Superman,” “The Prodi-
gal’s Return,” “Two Mr. Wetherbys,” and
“John Gabriel Borkman.” When they are
through with that lot, Tassy will reckon
itself the headquarters of intellectual drama.
** * *
The Chapman-Alexander mission company
left Melbourne for W.A. last week, amidst
the muffled groans of the guarantors. The
Australian tour has resulted in a loss of
£5OO thus far, and unless W.A. makes up
the deficit, these entrepreneurs will trouble
no more about this country’s immortal soul.
One of them told his audience at Ballarat
not .to expect smother visit from him. He
has no intention of running the co. to poor
business on his own account; and it is cer-
tain that the guarantors will not re-engage
him at enormous expense.
* * * *
Hugh Mcßickards is making a praise-
worthy effort to popularise the one-act play.
There is no reason why the manufacture of
potted dramas should not in time become a
flourishing Australian industry. Meanwhile,
the imported sample, “A Curate’s Misadven-
ture,” put on at the Opera House on Satur-
day by the Page Comedy Co., is not a bad
thing of its class. A lady who races as
“Mr. Id.” advertises for a trainer, while
about the same time Mrs. H. next door is
pining for a tutor for the young Aitches.
Of course the reverend tutor happens upon
the racing Aspirate, and is amazed at the
announcement that she has 12 she wants
trained, and is expecting three or
four more next week. If “Mr. H.”
has not yet fixed upon her racing
colors, • this journal v would suggest blue,
with purple spots. Fanny Powers,
who is soon to exchange the glare of the
footlights for the- glow of the domestic
hearth, has returned to give the boys a final
treat, and on Saturday they signified their
gratitude in the usual way. Florence
Baines. Taylor and Arnold, and the Max
Frqnklin Troupe, are among others who are
keeping the- wolf from the Mclnsplosh door-
mat.
Last Saturday, West, of Melbourne, shoved
into notice-a three-act drama called “A Cruel
Fate,” which contained a lady who looked
like an ddition-de-luxe of Monna Lisa, and
fooled with bloques when the lights were
low. In accordance with the rules of the
dramatic game, her promiscuous giddiness
led to trouble; and towards the finale she
dropped opt of the picture with an ugly-
looking carver sticking in her bust. There
was an uhpleasant mediaeval aspect about
the conclusion of the lady; still she deserved
something for making flirtation a business
and “sweating” herself at the occupation.
There is humor in “The Beauty Parlor of
Stone Gulch”; and “The Convalescent” is
a bright narrative of a man whose bump of
magnanimity develops from the size of a
pimple to the significance of a peanut.
** * *
The talk of the congregation at the P’ran
Lyric (Vic.) last week was mostly about
“Saved,” the tale of a lady who is prevented
from becoming the victim of an unseemly
passion by the masterly cleverness of her
darling che-ild. “Only an Outcast,” which
also ran, was a yarn of burglary and heroic
self-sacrifice, with a cast including a squire,
a butler, crusted old port, and all the appur-
tenances necessary to a picture of English
country life. “A War-Time Romance” and
“A Pueblo Legend” were Amurlcan films of
sentiment and excitement; while the best
comedy on the bill was “Mr. Grouch at the
Seaside,” displaying sidelights on the life
of a jealous man.
* * *
At the King’s, in Adelaide, Paul
Pedrini, making his first appearance
in Australia, puts up a clever “Ris-
ley” show. All liis work is done
with the feet; as he lies on his back, he
juggles with just about anything, from a
postage-stamp to a cannon. The Obracs
give another satisfying turn, mixing fun
and agility. At the Tivoli, Claire Romaine,
the cheeky boy-impersonator, is immensely
popular, even though she dragoons audiences,
after the style of a Yankee evangelist, into
chorus-singing. “All married ladies who
love their husbands sing this time. Come on
all the three of you!” Cliinko is a mar-
vellous young juggler; in some of his quick
and agile work he really recalls the great
man on whom his stage-name seems to be
unwisely modelled. La Freya has just
started some beautiful artistic poses. Allen
Doone is still going strong at the Royal.
In “Molly Bawn” he introduces his Robert
Emmett oration. And his days he spends in
swift motor-car flights over Adelaide’s
plains and hills. West’s pictures, Wonder-
graph, Empire, Pav. and Central are nearly
all offering stronv drama —generally well
acted by named artists, French or Danish,
or American, but never Australian or Eng-
lish. These pictures they mix with the open-
ing of the local bowling club, etc. Tugs-of-
war for a Mount Lyell fund have been filling
the Exhibition, and the Dandies, clean and
clever, have reached the dignity of being
fined for overcrowding.
AT POVERTY POINT.
In the half a dozen pages given to Henry Irving
in the new vol. of the “Dictionary of National Bio-
graphy,” credit is duly given to that old-tirpe favor-
ite Australian actor, William Hoskins for
his early recognition of young Irving’s
latent talent and for securing him his first
engagement at the Lyceum. Sunderland.
He received no salary at first, but got
255. a week later on. Nothing, however,
of his later career is told that wasn’t
well known already.
From London: Melba filled the Albert Hall on
Saturday afternoon with a huge and cheering crowd,
which welcomed her warmly after the year’s so;ourn
in “the bush.” She sang nothing new, but trilled
the old favorites to.the general delight. “The bush
has not hurt her singing apparatus. Indeed, the
Telegraph says her voice is a lot better than when
Charles Albert as Count
Max Cliguot.
its critic last heard
her. Some sublime
idiot, at the end
of her first song,
sent up a dummy
kangaroo. When
she came out for
her encore, Melba
caught sight o f
the apparition,
looked startled,
and hesitated for
a moment. Then
she resolved t o
face the embarrass-
ing situation, pre-
tended not to hear
tne tittering o f
the audience, and
sang her extra
number by the side
of the inconvenient
'beast. When she
retired the kan-
gar o o still re-
mained, nobody,
apparently, know-
ing what to do
with it. Burke
came out to do his
song, but, catch-
ing sight of the
“old man,” beat a
hasty retreat. Then
a liveried menial
advanced and
shunted the kan-
garoo down a
staircase, while
the gallery im-
plored him to “take if’ to the Zoo.”
“Hermes”: The new regulations governing the ex-
hibition of moving pictures in N.S.W. prohibit the
showing of films representing scenes suggestive of
“immorality or indecency, executions, murders, or
other revolting scenes... .bushranging, robberies, or
other acts of lawlessness.” It is almost impossible to
give a show which will not bump this regulation
somewhere. If it were applied to acted plays, there
would not be one theatre left in Sydney, and every
grand opera would be prohibited work. . Consider
Samson and Delilah, for example. The finest film
ever exhibited in Australia was “La Tosca,” which
contains a suggestion of immorality. In fact,
Scarpia is immorality incarnate; also, there is a
murder, when Scarpia meets his just reward; and
an execution, when the hero is shot on the ramparts ;
and a suicide, when the heroine hurls herself over
the battlement. One of the cleverest of films was that
showing the battle between the trypansomes and the
white corpuscles in the blood of a rat infected with
sleeping sickness ; but it was as revolting as it was
educative and instructive. People who go to see
picture-shows want Romance, and Romance is largely
Attempted Robbery of the Other Fellow’s .Girl, which
is suggestive of lawlessness and dishonorable conduct.
Practically all historical drama is shut out by the
new regulations, and the picture business limited to
industrial scenes, landscape and sporting scenes. It
is too sweeping altogether.
“M.M.”: The new censorship of moving picture
films in N. S. Wales appears as if it might justify
all the protest that is being made about it by
those who run the shows. The head and front of its
offending is that it places in the hands of the
policeman the power to inflict a great deal of
annoyance on the proprietors oh picture theatres.
No one who knows anything of tne police will deny
that they possess many virtues, such as patience,
well-developed feet and superb dignity, but no one
would ever accuse them as a body of possessing
either the requisite knowledge or taste to decide on
the fitness or otherwise of a picture film for public
screening. The screw and prospects of promotion of
a constable do not attract men with more than the
most rudimentary education, and the training
given inside the force is all against such a know-
ledge as is required for film censorship. Take it for
all in all, censorship of sermons by the employees
of the municipal council, or of leading articles by
boxing referees, would be just about as satisfactory.
The policeman isn’t the person for the job, censor-
ship isn’t urgently required, the public is the best
judge of its own entertainment, and the whole
business is a piece of cringing to the hysteria of a
few disgruntled faddists with the Wowser taint in
their whiskers.
“0.K.”: Melbourne Gaiety, which formerly started
its scale of prices at a modest “thrum,” has doubled
the tariff on the strength of a new and tasteful out-
fit. The new Gaiety is a bright and clean little hall
with a vastly improved vaudeville show. John
Fuller. father of proprietor Ben Fuller, was
a feature of the re-opening programme a
few weeks back. Age cannot wither his sweet
tenor warble. Mellifluous tenors have come
and gone since Fuller came into the business, but he
Sallies in our Alley just as he did many years ago.
The fact is, he’s an artist of the school that old Sims
Reeves founded ; and Art is long.
“Haresfoot”: Apropos the expected explosion of
Irish wrath over “The Playboy of the West.” The
thin-skin is evinced in a resolution passed by the
Melbourne Gaelic Society, to the effect that some
characters in Allen Doone’s plays were objectionable,
notwithstanding that Doone is Irish through and
through, and that Redmond and Donovan, the Irish
envoys, sucked in his pieces with great delight. 1
have a sneaking idea that “The Playboy of the
West” is a rattling good drama, only objected to bv
such purists as the Melb. Gaelic Society. They ought
to learn from the good humor of the Jews over
Dicey Morris, Melter Moss and so forth. Indeed,
when the first dramatic performance was given in
Jerusalem a few months ago, the Hebrew audience
enjoyed even “The Merchant of Venice.”
R., E. O’Connor, who died this week, was
one <sf the three draftsmen of the Australian
Constitution. When the Convention met in
Adelaide, it promptly showed its distrust of
Reid, not merely by choosing Barton as its
“NIGHT-BIRDS," AT HER
MAJESTY'S ,
MELBOURNE.
Edmund Sherras as the tired Prince.
leader, but by keeping him off even the'
drafting committee. For that important;
job Barton chose his colleagues—-John
Downer, K.C., of Adelaide, and O’Connor —
and the Convention accepted the nomina-
tions with scarcely a question. O’Connor,
the youngest of the three —he was two years
Barton’s junior—is the first to go.
The late Justice R. E. O’Connor had a
partly-French origin. His grandfather was
General O’Connor, of, the Grand Army of
France, a Franco-Irishman of the MacMahon
type. He went with Idoche’s expedition to
Ireland and stayed there. O’Connor’s charm
of manner was extraordinary, and it stood
him in good stead when he became leader of
the Barton Government in the Senate. As
Sydney Telegraph put it: —
Roughly, the constitution of the Rouse presented
an almost equal balance of Freetraders and Protec-
tionists, and there was a definite majority against
him on many important items of Government policy.
Yet he never suffered any sejrious defeats, and in con-
nection with the first Customs tariff he had extra-
ordinary and quite unexpected success.
Certainly, he was a born Parliamentarian,
and had a useful stock of wisdom and com-
mon sense; but these qualities would have
availed him little had he lacked his excep-
tionally attractive personality. It used to
be said that members voted for measures not
half so much because they approved of them
as because they hated to displease O’Connor.
It is a quaint commentary on our system of
party Government that though, in the words,
of a paper which had little use for his politi-
cal views, his speeches were “loaded with
wisdom of a very practical and convincing
kind,” and though “he might have been wel-
comed as Prime Minister of the Common-
wealth,” he could never get elected for a
N. S. Wales seat. He had a poor platform
manner—having nothing of the mountebank
or mummer in his composition—and he would
not play the game in the way the Party
bosses demanded.
THE GENTEEL SUPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wanted, 80 men of gentlemanly appearance, must
be tall, as supernumeraries. Apply, Blank Theatre,
10 o’clock to-day.— Advt.
For gentlemen the adverts, call
To act upon the stage as supers,
They must be elegant and tall
To fill the eye as British troopers,
Or pose wjth proper social touches
When swanking gaily with the Duchess.
Ths management has urgent need
Of eighty such at highest wages,
That’s how the little adverts, read.
But what of blokes the boss engages?
I sei'k through all the leading houses
Whereat the super gay carouses,
And gentlemanly’s not the fit
And proper word in this connection.
He is not tall, he isn’t “It,”
Consorting with a “class” collection.
In truth, the tall and slender eighty
Are much too lean when not too weighty.
They stand against the scenic walls,
Bow-legged, in-chested, shambling dummies;
Their weird vacuity appals;
They look like resurrected mummies
Parading for some trifling payment
In stale, misfitting, modern raiment.
I have a strong belief, in fact,
That genteel pros., supremely varnished,
Who heroes and fine villains act,
—lnsist on supers wry and tarnished,
That contrast with the wilted section
May set off their divine perfection.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


5/6
I
TUNIC SHIRT
of Best FRENCH CAMBRIC
The popular tunic style, with soft centre pleat
and stiff cuffs. Made of French Cambric, a
quality simply the very best —identical with that
used in Shirts being sold at S/G and 10./G each.
In light grounds, with neat stripes of Black,
Bed, Grey, and Heliotrope; also in darker
grounds of Heliotrope, Blue, Grey, and Green,
with various stripes. In sizes from 14 to 174
inches collar.
An excellent shirt for practical, every-day wear
also a fine sporting or holiday shirt.
f
Prices: 5/6 each, or 3 for 16/-
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE.
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ml
3R
WIIUh.^V
MOBILOIL
No one Lubricating Oil is best for all Cars. Gargoyle Mobiloil
gives you a grade for each type of motor. Use the grade
shown in our complete recommendations. Mailed on request.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
New Zealand Chambers, George St., Sydney.
SOCIETY
This paper has always had a fancy for a
church on wheels, wherefore it rejoices to
know that the Rev. G. J. Mackay has just
presented the Victorian Baptist Union with
a scheme for a movable tabernacle of ortho-
dox architecture, to be drawn about by
horses for the furtherance of bush-mission
work. Our preference, we admit, is for a
motor chapel on pneumatic tyres. No doubt
that will come in time, and we shall see a
thoroughly up-to-date automobile mission-
house going licketty-split across this young
•country, hot on the heels of the Devil.
Meanwhile we confess that we are just a
little hurt that our valuable pioneering
■efforts in the cause of chapels on castors
were not recognised by the Baptist Union.
It was the least the pirate might have done.
TWO ITEMS THAT WORRY.
THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS: “Ah! flattened
out by high rents , dear meat , etc. , I pre-
sume?”
NEW SPOOK: “No, sir! Merely an argument
with a Sydney tram."
“San Dido”: Strange people are made
..Taypees in Westralia. Went up country to
:a farming centre a while ago to defend in a
.sly-grog case. Two J’s.lh arrived on time,
and the court waited for the third to drive
in. Wanting to return by the midday train,
I asked the officer-in-charge if lie would
object to the two hearing the case. He
looked sad and said: “We’re waiting for
the penman. Neither of these two can
write.”
From an Adelaide critic: —
S.A. Society of Arts has for years been getting
together an inter-State show of pictures annually, to
give the Adelaide Art Gallery a chance of spending
a few hundreds in purchases—which it generally
does, a strong Australian room in the Gallery being
the result. The 15th “Federal” exhibition keeps up
the average, without showing any special distinction.
It is full of good landscapes, and figures not nearly
so good. Of anything bold, of compositions histori-
cal, or social, or legendary, there is hardly a sign.
Taking what there is, without mourning over what
there isn’t, one finds the late Ford Paterson with a
large Gippsland scene, faint and wan in the mist.
F. McCubbin goes to the Bush, too, for an evening
scene of rich subdued color; also he has a really
brilliant portrait of himself. Louis McCubbin' make's
a first appearance here, palpably under the influence
of Turner, with his reds and yellows and explosive
cotton-wool clouds. Not comfortable pictures to
“live with,” but welcome as showing a bolt out of
the beaten track. Delafeld Cook is another Vic-
torian of the faint-and-wan order; but Shearsby
glitters, with a striking land-and-blue-sea-piece from
Sandringham. Then Ambrose Patterson (whom
Melba claims as her discovery) hits one hard with a
Brussels boulevard under snow. It is a little in Will
Ashton’s style—or one of his styles—but less careful.
A kind of glorified scene-painting, if you like, but
effective. Sydney men are less frequent. Lister
Lister is sound with a river and a coast, and Wolinski
has a sordid, but truthful, coffee-shOp scene—one of
the rare instances of figure-composition in the show.
The Adelaide men are not obtrusive. Power is away,
painting the dogs and horses of wealthy Englishmen ;
If ay ley Lever sends out a few trifles from Cornwall;
and Hans Heysen, though on the spot, is busy with
commissions. Already he has founded a “school,”
and gum-trees, more or less like his, are seen on all
sides. Also, there is an Ashton school of seascapes,
James the father and William the son leading it
with their own works, allied, yet distinct. James
Scott, once of Maoriland and Sydney, and now of
Adelaide, has some single figures, more ambitious
than successful. Australia’s great need, to judge
from all that Adelaide ever sees, is more life-school
practice. Of the sound and enjoyable there are
many: John White, Edward Davies, Collins, Barnes
(the coming man), and Rose Lowcay. But,
strangely, the clever Hambidge sisters are little
represented.
The S.A. Gallery has bought McCubbin’s self-
portrait and Ambrose Patterson’s water-scene in Brus-
sels ; and, from Adelaide artists, a full-length por-
trait by May Grigg, and a misty English field by
Rose Lowcay. It also wants a James Ashton ocean
picture, but has run up against its own rule that no
artist shall have more than three paintings in the
Gallery. Probably an earlier work will make wav
for this one.
Another ease where silence would have
been "diamonds. A resident of an up-coun-
try Victorian town complained to the local
hospital committee that his father-in-law’s
death had not been promptly reported to the
family, and that the deceased would have
been “buried in a pauper’s grave” if his re-
latives had not accidentally learned of their
dear kinsman’s departure. The burial of
father-in-law in a pauper’s grave ‘"would
have greatly upset” them all, and the
thought of the blow that never befell them
was very hard to bear. The family tears
were still sizzling when the callous hospital
people dropped in an iceberg. They hadn’t
reported their • patient’s decease to his rela-
tives, they said, because they didn’t know
he . had any* none having been known to
visit him or contribute anything to his sup-
port during the 18 months of his illness !
* * * *
Gaud Mayor Glarke, the Sydney street-
cleaning enthusiast, and Railway Commis-
sioner Johnson should get together and de-
vise some legend for the littersome tram
ticket other than the present
“Please destroy on Alight-
ing.” The careful visitor,
being unable to . either sink
or burn the document, trans-
lates the notice into “Tear
into small pieces and scatter
to the four winds.” So he
innocently strews trouble
round, and, if he is unlucky,
does it in front of one of the
Gaud Mayor’s six patrolmen
costs him a morn-
ing, some unpleasant public-
ity, and half a crown or
more. In the present state
of the city by-laws, the tram-
tickets are almost as provo-
cative as if they bore the re-
quest, “On alighting, please
spit on the footpath and kick
a policeman.” What ousrht
to replace it The Bulletin
confesses it doesn’t know —
unless it be “Please swallow
the darned thing.” The
only danger is that that might mean litter-
ing the town with corpses, and some corpses
are more objectionable than used tram
tickets.
* * * *
“Sapphire”: In Constantinople stands
the famous church of S. Sophia. When the
Turks took the city in 1453 the mosaics and
pictures which adorned the building were
not destroyed, but covered up, and they
may still gladden the hearts of the devout.
In the church were 101 doors, one of which
led to a secret room. The priests entered
this _ chamber when the city fell, and, ac-
cording to Greek tradition, are still waiting
there alive, but doubtless somewhat fati-
gued. One hundred doors have been found,
but the hundred-and-first is still in safe
hiding somewhere, waiting patiently for the
restoration of the city to more-or-less Chris-
tian rule.
NO LUCK AT ALL.
TOBY (to the snubbed one):
"What did she say ,
Bunny?”
BUNNY: "She said I wuz too small for a sweetheart , ’n when I'd be big
enough I'd be too old."
“Skirlaugh”: The case (B. 7/11/T2) of
the Lismore Hindoos who cremated a body
there recently is merely the exception which
proves the rule. I have witnessed several
coolie burials in Australia, and the proceed-
ings have been very simple in each case. A
shallow hole about 3ft. x 4ft. is dug, and
into this the body, after being divested of
all jewellery, is thrust. The authorities
now insist on lime being placed in the grave ;
but most of it is purloined-by the mourners
to mix with their chewing tobacco. The
idea that the coolie is a tidy person with
his dead won’t stand looking at without a
handkerchief to the nose.
THE GENTLE INQUIRY.
“Ah! Portrait of my best patron."
"Still a patron?”
Melbourne Fever Hospital is a storm-
centre owing to an allegation that some of
the doctors who have the run of the pl6.ce
have been taking liberties with the bodies
of patients who have died there. It .is for-
bidden for doctors to make a post-mortem
examination of any corpse without the chn-
sent of the friends ; but somebody suddenly
heaved into circulation a general statement
that unsanctioned. post-mortems were the
rule. An inquiry of course followed, and
some startling statements are being made.
Whatever the final result may be, one thing
is. already established, and that is that the
management of hospitals by honorary com-
mittees is a wretchedly inefficient system.
The committee of this institution, which is
more or less on its trial, could not find time
to attend the inquiry. As one of the mem-
bers explained, they had their business to
attend to. Which hit the nail right oh the
head. First, private business; after that,
public business, the latter (time permitting)
being given the fag-end of a number of more
or less mediocre intellects.
“Hardaport”: The time is mellow for a
N. S. Wales Government to compel the
crowds of tugs that swarm in Port Jackson
to line up for inspection and license. A
few days ago two of them collided, fortu-
nately without serious consequence. One of
them was filled with workmen, and if the
planking had been stove in a bit more, any
of them could have had my share of the
proceedings. The ordinary ferry has to
obtain and hold a certificate of seaworthi-
ness ; but by a loophole or chasm in the
law, the workmen who are conveyed to and
fro by an employer in his own tug, tub,
tank or colander have no protection that
way. The carrying capacity is limited only
by the number of men to be transported,
and as far as the law is concerned not even
the postal address of a lifebuoy need be
put aboard. The tug can sink, blow-up, or
burst with impunity, and nobody cares a
cuss except the woman and the kids wait-
ing for father to come home. _ I hate to men-
tion a little thing like this, particularly
when employers have more important mat-
ters to think of; but somebody has to do it,
and I’m anxious to get it done while I’ve
time. I may be drowned on the way to the
docks to-morrow.
THE ACCURSED MEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was being recognised more and more that flesh
food was more impure than vegetarian food. The
person who never ate meat had never been known to
be a drunkard!, and a drunkard had never been known
to be a vegetarian. —Report of W.C.T.U. Convention
(Melbourne).
For years and years the frenzied soul
Has raised himself upon a cask
To give the Demon Drink his dole
Of frantic stoush ; but now we ask
That he will turn his righteous heat
Upon the wicked things we eat,
And take a turn at outing meat.
Poor Mr. Bung has had enough.
From here to elsewhere he’s been cursed ;
And all the while it’s not his stuff
That’s driving man from bad to worst.
The steak it is that blights, not swill;
Not beer, but beef, has ruined Bill.
In fact, ’tis sausages that kill!
Cold tongue, and fish, and pickled feet,
These gnaw the morals out of us.
’Tis tripe and such infernal meat
Should raise the Rechabitish cuss.
Were there no pork there’d be no port;
No chicken, no champagne. In short,
The Butcher Fiend is grim and swart!
Pigshead, not hogshead, spells despair ;
The foe is cutlets, never hops.
Who takes the pledge henceforth will swear
He’ll not taste, touch, or handle chops.
And good teetotal people must
Combine with fevered zeal to bust
That dreadful Beef and Mutton Trust.
JCTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, .Sydney, isi
the proper place to go if you want the best ‘of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the'
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to.
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Half the
Trouble
Mrs. L. Whitney , of Enmore, Sydney ,
writes
“ Washing isn’t half the
trouble it used to be now I
use Sunlight Soap. I don’t
have to boil the clothes at
all, yet they look whiter and
newer than if I boiled them
for hours with the old-
fashioned kind of soap.”
“ And what is more, Sun-
light Soap doesn’t crinkle
and chap my hands.”
GOOD
LAUNDRY SOAP
Beautiful Finger Nails.
Would you like to have your nails possess
that pink, shiny, shelly appearance that is
so attractive ?
If so, use
De Leon’s
Nail Polishing Powder.
A dainty toilet specially obtainable in 1/6
boxes from Washington H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co., all Chemists, and
the proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,
Melbourne.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO , Melbourne,
for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
True South American
Panamas, 18/6 and 21/-
The illustration shows one of our newest Panama
styles, in which the flexible, adaptable brim, evenly
colored, well-woven plait and shapely crowns, are
features which will commend it particularly to men
both in town and country.
These hats are negligee in appearance, the crowns
being so blocked that thev are readily adaptable to
suit the wearers. They will be found extremely light
in weight and comfortable in fitting—thus being,
without doubt, the ideal Panamas for Summer Wear;
2Jin. to 3iin. brims.
Please state width preferred and size when ordering.
Prices 18/6 and 21/-, Postage 6d. extra.
New Catalogue posted on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fd
From the Argus :—-
WANTED, kind bachelor lend two V.R.C.
Tickets (ladies’), for Saturday. Prompt return.
P.O., St. Kilda.
Now, what does “prompt return” mean?
That curious N.S.W. production, The
Land, learned a thing or two from George
Reid. One of that nobleman’s dodges was
to appoint a commission to investigate his
finances ; and when it reported that it had
discovered a fake and a swindle, he calmly
declared that the committee had vindicated
his wonderful policy, knowing that the pub-
lic wouldn’t wade through the dreary mass
to find out the truth for itself. The Land
recently determined to remove the stigma
of child slavery from the dairy farmers, and
in the same way requested the Department
of Public Instruction to supply >evidence
of child slavery. The Department for-
EDUCATED.
THE PRESS: “ And we understand you are a
self-taught , as well as a self-made , man?”
THE PERSONAGE: “I ham , sir. At 21 I
knew nothink. Then I set to work, and
at 22 I’d taught me self all I knew."
warded stacks of it, whereupon the amazing
paper, after publishing a crowd of cases,
calmly assured its readers that only indivi-
dual instances of cruelty and child-slavery
were proved. All cases of child or any other
slavery are, of course, individual. The
trouble about the dairying industry is that
its individual cases are so numerous.
“C.E.”: The National Parliament voted
£BO,OOO for the preparation and equipment
of Western Port (Vic.), and the money is
being industriously spent. The Institute of
Civil Engineers had a look the other week,
shoved round by Superintendent Fanstone.
Admiral Henderson’s recommendation has
been adopted, and a great scheme moves
forward. As sketched, there is to be pro-
vision for training, officering and housing
2000 naval recruits. This will be the Aus-
tralian Training Station; Sydney is ear-
marked as the chief repairing depot, and
Cockburn Sound (Westralia) for building
battleships. (Did you speak?) “Eventu-
ally” (good word, that!) Western Port is
to be a complete naval dockyard, with par-
ade grounds, basins, berthage, victualling
departments and storeyards, ammunition
stores, locating dock, and schools for all re-
quirements. There is railway communica-
tion with Melbourne (48 miles), and a deep
water channel for the largest warships
right up to the unruffled Hanns Inlet,
where the dockyard will be.
The track of the backblocks teacher has
always been fairly spiky; but if Fitzpatrick,
M.L.A., is right, the crown of prickly pear
must be awarded to one who was recently
ordered to leave Crookwell (N.S.W.), and
take charge of the school at Coffee Hill.
When he arrived at the Hill, he looked round
for the usual building with an Empire Day
bragstaff in front. He couldn’t see it. So
he asked the Oldest Inhabitant, and stood by
respectfully while the Oldest took down the
shutters of his memory. At last a gleam
of recollection shone in the old man’s eye.
Oh, yes, he remembered the school quite well.
It had been sold to a man called Brown or
White, or maybe it was Green. This Green
(or it might have been Black, now he came
to think of it)had pulled it down and carted
the timber to Cave Creek, 20 miles away.
Carmichael, Minister for Public Instruction,
at first denied the humorous story; but on
Fitzpatrick returning to the charge, he col-
lapsed into his official shell, and is now
strongly suspected of making further in-
quiries. Meantime, this much seems cer-
tain : the teacher who had been sent to Coffee
Hill has been moved on to some place where
he can find a school.
* * * »
The Oldest Inhabitant sticks a pin into a
bladder: —
Apropos the sin of turning’ Svdney Government
House to any other use on account of the sentiment
attaching to it. There is far more of the vague
substance hanging to the old house at Parramatta.
The building there was one of those designed by
Lieutenant Watts, and was completed about 1818-19.
Macquarie was the first to occupy
it. Brisbane, Darling, Bourke,
Gipps, Fitzroy an4 Denison all
blade a home of it. It is a fine
sample of the better class of dwell
ihgs in Australia 90 years ago.
The walls are 3ft. thick, the rooms
lofty arid tlie ventilation perfect.
Underneath there are most capaci-
ous cellars. Bins for wines are
built in many of the excavations;
in some of them may still be
seen the huge “horses,”' made of
logs, to support the barrels. The
courtyard is paved with five layers
of brick. The dining-room is still
—or lately was—very much as in
Macquarie’s time. The ballroom
looks, small nowadays. At the
rear were guard-room and offices,
and some distance further up the
hill was the bathroom. There was
a pump at the foot of the hill,
and water was forced up from the
river into a tank on top of the
bathhouse, whence pipes were laid
on to supply the house. Close to
the bath were the stables. Such,
anyhow, was the condition of the
historic house when, a little while
ago, the King’s School authorities
got it and converted it into a
junior school and dormitory. At
that house Governor Brisbane
erected his observatory, and,
Within a few yards stood the Wool-
pack Inn, built in Macquarie’s
time—the house where the his-
toric Emancipists’ banquet was
given to Governor Brisbane on the
eve of his departure from the
colony, in December, 1825. In
this house the wife of Governor
Bourke died, and in view of its
windows the wife of Governor
Fitzroy was killed. If you want “sentiment” you’ll get
it at this old Government House, yet the “loyalists” of
the McMillan type evidently didn’t think there was
any “outrage” in letting the place for years as a
hash-house, and novy as a school dormitory. You
see, there was nothing to be gained politically by
raising the “outrage” cry before. Now any stick
will do to beat the Labor dog with.
* * * *
“Kidette”: Is Defence Minister Pearce
doing the square thing with his kid army?
Each cadet has to put in for the year four
whole-day, 12 half-day and 24 night drills.
The whole-day drills fall on a public holi-
day generally, and as the kid doesn’t want
to miss his holiday, he dodges drill for that
day. He can make good by doing some half-
day or night drills instead. The rifle ranges
are in most cases some miles from town, so
the musketry practice is held on the whole-
days. As a consequence, many go through
the year with no shooting at all. This may
result in the infants feeling a bayonet some
day if they can’t make their bullets find
the enemy first—which is why I ask whether
Pearce is doing the square thing? Inci-
dentally, the Turks have decided in future
to encourage rifle-sliooting. I’m afraid it’s
a bit late —in their case.
Justus Schreiber, of Bendigo, is a much
astonished man these days. In May last he
got a divorce from his wife on the grounds
of desertion ; but before the decree was made
absolute, the lady, who had gone to Wes-
tralia, came back, interviewed somebody,
and upset everything by bringing about the
Attorney-General’s intervention. It seems
that after proceedings had been started
husband and wife met, stayed at the same
hotel, and, according to the case for the
Attorney-General, came to an honorable un-
derstanding. Justus was to give his ex-
beloved £llO, and she was to go to Wes-*
tralia and not oppose the petition. She
went to Westralia; but, through some over-
THE LAST HOPE.
BOOZER (on first cadging visit to a newspaper
office): “Financial Editor! Strike me,
this is the first bloke in the office who
doesn't say he's broke, and ’e’s got his
door locked."
sight, mental abstraction, or shortness of
breath, Justus forwarded only £75 —and the
cat came back. Asked why she intervened,
she said it was because her husband gave
untruthful evidence about her, saying she
was a drunkard and would not stay in the
home he provided for her. She objected to
such statements, and was there to clear her
character. When a man starts out to get
a divorce by collusion, he requivjes the ser-
vices of a really brilliant storji-writer as
well as a lawyer. His evidence should be a
glorification of his departed spouse. Had
Justus gone into the box and declared that
his Ethel Bertha was a handsome woman,
as bright intellectually as she was physically
and morally beautiful, but afflicted with a
strange craving for roaming round the world,
having descended from a long line of roving
ancestors —had he put it that way he might
to-day have been a free man. But one can
never tell. Bertha’s soul might then have gone
out to the darling who had said such sweet
things about her—things no other man was
likely to say about her owing to lack of
opportunity—and she would have come back
just the same, only in a different frame of
mind. Once a woman gets her teeth e into a
man she never reallv likes letting go.
“Lantana”: Victoria’s old Government
House —Balmerino House it was called —
was auctioned at Melbourne a few days ago
for a mere £42. And at the very hour this
thing was being done hundreds of scalding
“loyalists” were seething fiery denunciations
against a Labor Government which had the
beastly audacity to ask for rent for the
building occupied by Gov.-General Denman
wheu in Sydney. A whole Government
House with its sentiment, its memories of
loyalty and champagne! and Gorsave and
hiccups sold in the market for 40 common
quid ! _ Incidentally, the place was built in
1854, its first tenant being Governor Hoth-
am. I don’t know what the purchaser pro-
poses to do with his purchase, but, so that
the old place may feel at home, I hope he
intends to keep fowls in it. For there is
not a great deal of difference between Gov-
ernors and fowls. Feathers and chortling
are characteristics of both.
The increase of house rents is having a
remarkable effect on matrimonial matters.
In a recent breach of promise case the aunt
of the girl said the arrangements for the
marriage had advanced even to the point of
“finding the boarders.” It was explained
that as the hanpy pair must live in a house
several sizes too large for their income, the
boarders to occupy the unnecessary rooms
were of as much importance as the ring or
the wedding garment. And much more
likely, by the way, to provide work for the
divorce court presently.
“Kodak”: The Universal Ad-
jective so beloved of battle-his-
torians is a fine, full-bodied
word which lends flavor to the
baldest sentence; but some
people overwork it terribly.
Feemer is one of those who
should be prosecuted for sweat-
ing it. He contrives to get
along without it when at home,
for he has a great regard for
his quiet, religious wife. I
know he has a great regard for
her, because, the other evening,
I overheard him talking to a
close friend in the homing,tram.
This was how Feemer put it:
“It’s not a fair thing to leave a
(universal adjective) woman
alone all the (adjective) night.
I used to stay at home when
the kids were young just to
keep her company. But they
don’t go to bed early now, and
she doesn’t care a (adjective)
bit if I stay out all the (col-
ored) night. , Last night I
wanted to go to the (as Usual)
lodge ; but the kids were going
up to the < same old word) pic-
ture show, so I offered to stay
at home. But, Lord bless yer,
she wouldn’t have it! ‘No.
Jack,’ she says, ‘you go, and
don’t worry about me. I won’t
be nervous, because I’ve got
some (customary adjective )
sewing to do.’ ” Right "there I
decided that Feemer was over-
doing it.
“George Street”: Sydney
tramway system is such a won-
derful affair that it seems
almost superfluous to throw an-
other brick at it, but the absur-
dity of the plan by which trams
from the populous suburbs about
Darlinghurst are run to a ter-
minus at Erskine-street calls
for the hurling of sorhething
injurious. From William-street to Pitt-
street the cars are packed to their last
limit; from George-street to Erskiiie-street
they travel almost empty. Perhaps that
doesn’t affect the tramway revenue; never-
theless, it seems a plain fact that the run-
ning of empty cars in a crowded city is a
proof of managerial incapacity. If four-
fifths of the cars turned the corner and con-
cluded their journey at Circular Quay, they
would run full to the last jolt.
GAINING EXPERIENCE.
“I'm going down to Manly to learn swimming
this summer."
“I thought Jack taught you last year.”
“So he did. But that's all over. I'm not en-
gaged to him now."
THE REFORMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One probable reason for the increase of thefts is
Che fact that crime is so leniently treated, both by
the public and the Judges. The friendly “cat” no
longer purrs along the backs of robbers.
—Parson Spurr ( Melb .).
On Sunday morn and Sunday night
I preach the gospel of the Meek
Who taught us when the wicked smite
To smile and turn the other cheek ;
On week days earnestly I toil
To finish my invention cute:
With dynamo and thrilling coil
To fashion for the sinner’s back
A rake, a sword, a fire, a rack —
My patent castigating brute.
“Forgive! They know not what they do,”
My Master said, and that is well
To warm a stale address or two ;
But I prefer the brimstone smell.
For putting down the sins of men
I’ve little faith in text or creed.
I’d tie the devils up, and then
With fiery tooth and raking claw
I’d purr their bodies rough and raw,
And make their purple shoulders bleed.
If leathern cats with tails to match,
Which shred the wretches’ backs, are good,
Much better is a beast to scratch
As my electric whipper would.
It’s armed with cunning flails of steel,
With tiny teeth it stabs and hacks,
On many a little whirling wheel,
With keen barbs set and cutters neat;
No cat —a tiger mad for meat,
With tiny teeth it stabs and hacks.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


rpf^<3~/A
\ a «a \
\ oA ft.
\c^ 9 vvcTo^l
*°r (
\ V*
The Department has been informed that many
teachers in the Ballarat district are unable to i
swim. and. now that the teaching of swimming.
Is part- of the State school curriculum, it is neces- t
sary that teachers themselves should be pro-
ficient iri the art.—News item.
hoo uf>sla/F~Dust
J 'fealedourMdboOrrjedJ*'
* Bwt- if~m«s t“
\ |\(oW is /^Jor.
, —v iKe "boys A re
Here >ye nv® Tr°
€.%b«Kf'sWi<v)rn«i's sti’bMla<+ine T
_w|M
vrtftry /,,
-• / U
(V/.8. -n,cy W c M
slaved J^ ||j|
3^on r^ter*
VM^Orr?
it "W/*
Qortcerrj >
■^Kei-
T)|A\lr/l(H| r^£ ;
-Heap
in liKc.) ;
ll,e ' ‘S eactfrrs. yo«r
j, .J 1b niffy /
m y Wt ? first" jbJT^ie^iJb
tit w« . I m shnhKino
John. LooK 2st my book I S,* or? -^ 5
almost 'too | or ’
Mr. Murray is proud bf tho fact
that the population of the Victorian
gaols is decreasing.—“ Age.”
/ ISe Merry Burglar:- We too, JOIII7 "
it tfefe^ ? 27r£r^bo s A ?”
yo« f>«J ir.n I fayfentt Ky oVee-fToos
Arc purely FusionaJ JoKooßTjuT
OLD HATS, NEW BROOMS, etc.


The Household Disinfectant-
Carbolacene
Cleanses and disinfects
in one act.
In the bath and for washing the
hair.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging carpets, ete. Removes
dirt, prevents disease.
A wonderful healer of cuts and
sores and skin eruptions.
In the siek room. Instantly des-
troys all germs.
For Washing Animals. Destroys
all Vermin.
USED BY ALL HOSPITALS
If not obtainable at your Chemist or Storekeeper, send for trial
pint bottle—l/3 Post Free to any address.
SYDNEY: BRISBANE: MELBOURNE:
Arthur Muston a Sons. Moylan a Chancellor. Mitchell a Bellair
gdf
Leave the office with a headache and go home?
Don’t do it —take Stearns’ Headache Cure before you
leave, and you will arrive home in a pleasant mood.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [e
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE KNOWLEDGE THAT COMES
WITH AGE.
“I dunno what my wife'll say to me.”
"Cheer up, oI'f’la! When y' been married 's
long as me you will.”
“Silas Snell” : He was down for the Cup.
He came from Boowee, was 25 years of age, and this
was his first trip to the city. In fact, he had not
previously visited centres of commerce more popu-
lous than Boowee and Birdinalp. He was surprised
at Melbourne in a slow sort of way, and spent most
of his spare time leaning on the Town Hall, watch-
ing men and events. His engaging candor amused
the people at the hotel where he was staying, but
his habit of getting up when others were just going
to bed occasioned some inconvenience. Said he:
“This Melbin’s a orl-ri-i-ight sort o’ place, but,
cri-i-ipes, wot I can’t make out is what everybody is
doin’. When a bloke gets up in the mor-r-rnin’ the
people are in the streets; they’re in the streets just
the same when a bloke goes to b-e-e-ed; and all
da-ay long they’re in the streets. Where are they
goin’ all the ti-i-me? That’s all very well, yeh
kno-o-w, mooehin’ round the town ; but who does the
milkin’ ?”
“Eddyson”: The man in the two-horse
waggon was nodding on his seat as the neddics jogged
lazily in a cloud of their own making along the
dusty Little River road. At a spot about two miles
from the pile bridge, Shannon was diverted from his
day-dreams by echoes of an intemperate human argu-
ment rising above the jangle of the waggon. Pull-
ing up, he investigated, and discovered something
like a fight going on across a grass paddock in the
direction of a staring, white-washed farm-house.
Shannon dismounted, and strolled across the pad-
dock with that air of drifting concern which a
total stranger assumes in approaching the other fel-
low’s fight. Coming closer, the traveller observed
that the contestants were a man and a woman.
Nearer still, Shannon discovered that the woman was
a large, tough type, badly tangled in a barbed wire
fence. Most of her outer garments were ensnared be-
yond saving, and the prisoner was utterly helpless
under the castigation that a small, leathery man
with a face like a parched pippin was administering
with a waist belt. It was the vehement protests of
the tethered dame that had awakened Shannon. She
was apparently under the stress of a profound emo-
tion, and was telling the small brown man those
things about himself which a husband and a father
does not care to hear ventilated before strangers.
The small man was sitting on a stone. He was com-
paratively self-contained. When the woman’s yells
flagged, he heartened her on by slapping her bare
calves and arms with his belt. All he said before
administering the reproof was: “Well, Milly, what’s
it goin’ t’ be?” Milly retorted tnat he was a hog
and a dog, with lingual gargoyles and frills of im-
polite verbiage, and threatened torture and lingering
death to the stunted male when conditions were
altered, and she could resume her customary sway
in the old home. “Very well, Milly,” said the casti-
gator, and he belted her again. Pausing to fill his
pipe, he observed Shannon, and nodded calmly.
When he had cut his tobacco, and Milly’s eloquence
had ceased blowing a gale, he introduced us: “Mrs.
Wagstaff, Mister.” When he had filled his pipe he
added: “I’m Wagstaff.” He lit his pipe, and shook
his belt again. “Well, Milly,” he said, “what’s it
t’ be?” Milly’s retort was scandalous. Wagstaff
flapped her with the belt. Pausing again to expec-
torate, he said to Shannon, nodding sideways towards
his victim: “See, the Missus was chasin’ me with a
hoe, when she got herself hooked on the wires, and
I’m wantin’ t’ persuade her to agree t’ be a more
reasonable kind iv partner fer the future.” “I’ll
tear the pig’s ears off him when I get outer this!”
said Mrs. Wagstaff. “No, Milly, don’t say that,”
said Wagstaff gently, and he used his belt with in-
creased force. Then he smoked for two minutes
while his wife raved to Heaven. “Well, Milly, old
girl, what’s it t’ be?” said Wagstaff. Shannon
ventured to interfere. “I think I’d let her go now,”
he said. “Would you?” retorted Wagstaff. “You
wouldn’t. If you had a wife like this you wouldn’t
miss no opportunity nor take no chances.” And
Wagstaff slapped his Missus again. you’re
right,” said Shannon, and went his way. When he
looked back, driving down the dusty road to Little
River, Mrs. Wagstaff was still roaring, and Wag-
staff was still sitting on the stone, smoking and
casually putting the case to Milly with his belt.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The lawyer vine takes the
place in N.Q. of bullock-hide and fencing wire in
N.S.W., S.A. and Victoria. It is used extensively
by the white, and to Binghi it is indispensable.
Whether he proposes to climb a 70ft. pine or a 20ft.
cocoanut palm, Binghi cuts a strong length of the
vine that will just reach around the tree; then he
grasps an end tightly in each hand, and walks up
the tree by his big toes, every now and then jerking
his hand-gripped vine higher. When building his
gunyah, Binghi cuts a couple of dozen 10ft. lengths
of the mature vine (stout cane), sticks both ends in
the ground and thus makes an arch, into which he
roughly plaits other canes. A few palm branches
are casually thrown over the wicker-work basket, a
hole poked through for a door, and, inside, Binghi
defies wind, rain and debil.
* » * *
“Tiaki”: I admire the self-assured way
in which “Te Kuri” (B. 24/10/’l2) shoulders his
way into “this dog controversy.” It isn’t “faintly
possible that kuri was derived from the attempt to
pronounce the English word” (presumably cur). I
thought that I had explained to “Tumumu” that
kuri, in its general sense, means quadruped. Also,
“kararehe” means dog. If Henare, who had his dog
even in Hawaiiki before he berthed aboard the fast
sailing canoe Arawa, bound for Maoriland, imitated
“cur” with “kuri,” will “Te Kuri” tell me what Eng-
lish word he imitated with “kararehe?” Also, it
isn’t faintly possible that Henare picked up his
ejaculation “ara” from some Irish jarvey who used
“arrah” to his cab-horse; neither is he copying the
white man when he calls his dad “papa.” That
word is his own. He is not drawing on the white
man’s vocabulary when he says “ngau” (which
means to gnaw). Also, “ringa” (hand) was not
filched from the fact that Henare had seen a hand
used to ring a bell —or a fowl’s neck. There cer-
tainly is a story to the effect that a Maori, strange
to a certain district, asked a grumbling bulloekv
the name of a certain hill. Bullocky replied,
“Blanked if I know.” Since that time Henare has
always referred to that mound as “Puke-ti-whai-no.”
Puke means hill. Similarly, “heketere” does not
mean secretary. “Hekeretere” is the word. The
word shilling is not pronounced “hiringi,” nor is it
spelt so on the court forms (as per writ against
“Te Kuri” attached, fining him two cases of beer
for ignorance of his subject, interpretation fees in-
cluded). It is pronounced as spelt, “hereni.” Also,
does “T.K.” mean to say that Henare waited in
M.L. for hundreds of years before he had enough
intelligence to give names to the different points
of interest in this loan land of the South Pacific?
Go to 1
NOT LOST, BUT GONE BEFORE.
AMATEUR SPORT (after some hours unsuccessful shooting): "What has become of the—
aw—dog?”
WEARY KEEPER: “The dawg? Oh, yer pilled him two hours ago.”
“Marloo” : Either the person who directs
the agricultural column of a certain metro-
politan weekly has had his walking appara-
tus pulled, or he is using the backbone of
the country as a butt for an outsize in jokes.
Recently he advised the farmer of a “new and
effective method” of eradicating stumps. I had
the great displeasure of witnessing a trial of the
method a few days ago, and I reckon I’m lucky to
be alive to tell the tale. Working according to
directions, Durrum bored a hole in the sawn-off
tree, uncorked two bottles, which contained nitric
and sulphuric acid respectively, poured the con-
tents into the hole, and belted in a hardwood plug.
He then remarked that in six weeks the deadly
AN EYE FOR WEIGHT.
SQUTTER: “Hey, Mister, what's on here?"
P ARSON: “This, sir, is a social tea.”
S QUATTER: “Judging by the condition on 'em
I should tall it a beef tea.”
acids would reduce the stump to such a state that
it could be kicked to pieces. But just here the
acids exploded with such effect that Durrum fell
backwards off the tree-butt, while a portion of his
face-herbage raced into the clouds. Have concluded
that the agricultural expert has confused his plan
for the destruction of stumps with some experiments
for the annihilation of airships. I’m sending you
Durrum’s opinion in a fire-proof tank.
“Gouger” : The Queensland scrubs are in-
fested just now with that irritating pest, the “red
itch.” Have seen desperate men scratch their flesh
until the blood oozed. Close investigation in such
cases shows hundreds of minute crimson specks.
Each speck is a tiny tick, and when an odd hundred
or two get up the leg of a man’s pants he will sit
down for hours to dig out the almost invisible devils
rather than keep them for company. Turps and
vaseline mixed is a good smothering cure; but on
tender parts the sting of the turps makes a man say
things that should be whispered into an iron tank at
the bottom of a gully.
* * * *
“Vagabond” : It’s all very well for all these
bushy “Abos” to keep slinging off at the immigrant
idiot, and his throw-the-cow-to-milk-her perform-
ances. But, all the same, there are
times and places where the bushiest
of ’em would be made to look
sillier at what they consider their
own special jobs than the immi-
grantest immigrant that ever im-
migranted. Imagine an Australian
crack shearer landing by some odd
chance on the Shetland Islands.
(He might freeze to death, or step
off the edge, before he’d time to
look for a job, but suppose he
didn’t.) Picture a cocky farmer
there asking him if he could tackle
a job to get the wool off a score or
two of sheep. Can’t you see that
ringer chuck a chest and brag that
it’ll just warm him and give him
an appetite for breakfast, to strip
200 or 300 while the porridge-billy
is being boiled. And what would
he say—oh, what would he say—
when he found that the sheep were
not to be shorn, but that they were
to be PLUCKED ? Plucked like a
pullet—the wool pulled out with
the hands. All the same, that is
how the wool is harvested in the
Shetlands. The sheep are allowed
to run till the warm weather has
loosened the coat—or p’raps I
ought to say till the Arctic blizzard
weather is over and allows the
sheep to exist without his winter
overcoat. Usually the women do
the “shearing,” and they hold the
sheep down, get a grip of a hand-
ful of the wool and tug gently at
it. If it comes out they take an-
other handful. If it hangs on and
threatens to bring a foot of skin vtith
it, that handful is left to loosen.
up later on, and another portion of the coat is tried.
Sometimes on the hills you’ll see sheep with one side
plucked bare, while the other has long festoons of
wool hanging to it. Can’t explain why one side
should part up easier than t’other, but it’s so. And,
finally, Shetland wool has a reputation for quality
way up as far as it can be without being toe
lonely.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He came to us from Biliouspill,
A Gippsland centre where the cow
Works over all her awful will.
Jim was her slave. I see him now,
With bended back and slouching gait,
A hide tanned like a rusted rail,
And legs bowed to accommodate
The everlasting milking pail.
He’d come to see the races run,
\nd back a horse from Biliouspill.
He told of doughty deeds he’d done,
And wondrous feats of milking skill.
We came home late that night, and Jim
Had gone to bed some time before.
We sat to supper by the dim,
Rank kerosene an hour or more.
Then Jim came, yawning; took a seat;
Next paused our racket to condemn;
Then fell upon the bread and meat.
This was at ten to two, a.m.
Ten minutes Jim in silence fed,
Then looked out on the morning drear,
And yawned again, and sadly said:
“By cripes, you breakfast early here!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
From 13 - per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert everv
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. UIIE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SKIN DISEASES,
Including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains,
Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
H !!!
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart. Perth, Rockhampton.
•M LEMOr
ONI
m
PUREST
STRONGEST - E>f
v v ■*
otemoj
FUNCTIONAL LIVER TROUBLES are for the
most part the outcome of too little exercise and
too good living. The simplest and best of all reme-
dies is a wineglassful of “HUNYADI JANOS”
natural aperient water, taken before breakfast every
second or third morning.*
u
iu^-.
~;y
Foggitt, Jones'
Jellied Pigs’ Feet
make a delightful luncheon dish.
They are packed in tins ready for
service. For those who like some,
thing appetizing they are really
unsurpassed. Vour grocer has
them—ask him for a tin or two.
“Malcolm”: Following up “Mallara-
poonie’s” treatise on the memory of the camel, I’ll
tell you a true story which, if it does not prove that
the beast of the desert has a memory, will amply
demonstrate that he can bear a grudge with the
worst of us. A teamster in the employ of Hender-
son and Macgregor, at Malcolm (W.A.), had given
a bull-camel the father of a hiding one afternoon.
Towards evening a couple of the teamster’s mates
took the camel a good three miles out into the
mulga, hobbled it closely and left it there for the
night. Hours afterwards the sleeping camp was
suddenly terrified by awful cries for help coming
from under one of the waggons. We rushed to the
spot, and found that the camel had dragged itself
back to camp, pulled the man who had cruelly ill-
used it from under his waggon, and was tossing
him as a terrier does a squealing rat. By the time
we had beaten the enraged brute off we expected to
find our mate dead, but things were not so bad as
that. He merely had two broken legs and the flesh
on several parts of the body torn from the bones.
Twelve months’ hospital and very careful attention
enabled him to dodge the undertaker.
* * * *
“Flinderino” : Re crocodiles and feathered
foods. I was navigating a flatty up one of the
numerous creeks that empty into the Cairns Inlet,
North Queensland. My mate drew attention to a
diminutive crocodile that was sunning itself on the
roots of a mangrove. The infant was less than 18in.
long—not much bigger than a full-grown Johnnie-
Jumper. Althoug’h we pelted it with oyster shells
it didn’t shift —not until I almost hit it with an
oar. Coming down the creek an hour later we again
saw the juvenile ’dile swimming across the creek,
and it had a bird in its jaws. My pal let fly with
the rifle, but all we got was a few feathers. Some
years ago an old woman who ferried passengers
across the Barron River at the Strathford crossing
told me that her ducklings had been disappearing in
a mysterious way. She suspected Hop Ivwong Ivee and
Co., whose banana plantation was in the neighbor-
hood, and she informed the police to that effect.
But one day she happened to be watching a gosling
that was sporting in the stream, and presently there
was just a gentle swirl and eddy and no gosling,
though the river remained. The ’dile didn’t take
that. A poultry farmer of my acquaintance, whose
selection was near the mouth of the Russell River,
sometimes caught juvenile crocodiles in a wooden
drain on his farm. The channel was about 100yds.
long, and ran from the back of the house to. the
river. The young crocs used to sneak up the drain
and lay in wait for the innocent ducklings that
bathed in the gutter. Sometimes the drain was a
misfit. There is an old armored crocodile that lives
on the coast near Cape Grafton, close to the Yarra-
bah Aboriginal Mission Station. This ancient shell-
back was quite grown up when Abel Tasman cruised
thereabouts in his dreadnought. It is probably the
oldest inhabitant of Queensland, and its back is
covered with a thick deposit of oysters. The mis-
sion blacks say they have seen old oysterbaek catch
kingfishers and other birds. The crocogator would
be lying motionless on the sandbank and apparently
soundly snoozing. A couple of bright-colored king-
fishers would be perched on its back, preening their
feathers. Some more birds would join in and start '
skylarking around the monster. Suddenly the big
tail would lash out, one swing to the right and one
to the left. There would be few unbroken bones in
the bird that collided with the flying tree of meat.
Old armor-clad would gather up the tit-bits and take
them to a place of safety to ripen.
McNorth”: One method of discerning
the approach of spring in Torres Strait is to watch
the mainland Binghi’s bingey. When the “winter”
TROUBLE AHEAD.
AUSTRALIAN SCOUNT: “By Cripes! Ij old
Wilson sees them Jap s fright’ n’ his cows
there’ll be a row all right.”
has given things best for the year, the luscious wild
fruit, known as wongai, comes into bearing, and
Binghi’s bread-basket blooms accordingly. All he
has to do is to send the missus up the trees, pick
up the fruit, and sit and eat till sleep cuts appetite
short. When he awakes the lady does some mo>
climbing and the gent, some more eating—and sleep-
ing. After a few days of this, our dark relation be-
comes too sleepy to eat, and his equator assumes
the proportions of a camel’s hump. In a week or
so he turns on one side and grunts a request for
more fruit, and the old order is repeated till the
bare trees tell the nigger to search elsewhere for his
provender.
“Konini”: I enter the following for the
Uncontrollable Fury Stakes. It occurred at Milton
(South Island of M.L.), and was briefed thus:—
The evidence fcr the prosecution was to the effect
that the bullock was exhausted and lay down by the
roadside, while being driven from Akatore to Milton,
that defendant broke its horns, and broke its tail
off, also that he dragged it to some tussocks and set
fire to it while it was alive.
The magistrate fined the demented savage £5, and
went so far as to say that if he could have been
absolutely certain that the roasting was commenced
before the mutilated animal was dead, the penalty
might have been even more. Judging by appear-
ances, it might have been £5 Os. 2£d.
ANOTHER RACIAL CRIME.
OVERSEER: “What’s tip, Jacky I”
JACKY: “That one plurry arf-carsk been kickit this pfella!”
“Eddyson”: A tragedy of Bull crossing,
now 30 years old. A small bark hut on the side of
a moonlit hill, with a bark door, and a bark chim-
ney. Just beyond the spare trees; the bush there has
been pushed back to the brow of the hill. Below, a
thin, scattered township of iron and bark, with a
battery drumming somewhere in the distance. ' A
woman comes stumbling along the tree line, her
dark hair falling loosely about her, the front of her
white night-dress stained black with the blood oozing
from a wound in her breast. She stag-
gers a few steps at a time, and pauses
to fight for breath. She falls often, and
makes a brave attempt to continue the
journey on her knees. It is two o’clock.
The men off night shift are all a-bed ;
there is none to see, no one to lend a
helping hand. She reaches the hut door
at length, pulls the string that liberates
the latch, and falls into the darkness
within. Three minutes she lies still on
the floor, and then, lifting herself on her
hands, calls faintly : “Tom ! Tom ! He’s
shot me, Tom! Tom! Tom! Tom!
Dan’s shot me. He found out, and he
shot me. Tom!” There is no movement
on the bunk, where, in a tumble of blan-
kets and an old, torn ’possum rug, a man
is sleeping. The woman calls agaiif, but
her voice is like the thin complaining of
a dying child, and cannot be heard. She
creeps to the bunk, pulls herself to her feet, and
feels for Tom’s face. She cannot shake him into
wakefulness. Finding the matches by the bedside,
she makes feeble efforts to strike a light. When she
succeeds, her quavering hand holds the light over
Tom Walsh’s stark, white face. Tom is dead. Dan
had been there before her.
“Briefless”: Wouldn’t advise anyone to
try eating fresh-\yater turtle (tortoise). It is
sudden death on fowls —that I know by experience—
and as Ilaflz or Abdul Hamid, or someone hath it,
“What ducks cannot digest, that let the stomach of
man shun.” True, there is a market for these rep-
tiles among the Chinese. But there is no evidence
that the Mongol eats them. In fact, since he still
remains alive in large numbers, the testimony is all
the other way.
* * # •
“Mopoke” : Can any of the scientists who
disport themselves over the Abo. pages tell me how
long a water-lizard (not to be confused with his
first cousin Frill Neck) can stay under water?
Recently saw one flop into a pool and remain under
the surface for two hours 55 minutes. At the time
of my departure, judging by the indifferent ex-
pression on his face (which, by the way, is not
unlike Joe Chamberlain’s), he was in for the day.
“Giddap” : The world is full of Mystery—
fairly crawling with it. I was digging out rabbits
the other day—a favorite pastime in my part of the
world—and came upon a tunnel 40 ft. long, the
diameter of which varied from six to 10 inches.
Although it was freshly made, there was not a
shovelful of dirt at the mouth. What do they do
with the dirt? Eat it or what? Another problem
that occurs to me is: What is the greatest depth to
which rabbits will burrow? In sandy ground, in
the Rochester (Vic.) district, I and a mate at-
tempted to call on Bunny at his apartments in the
basement, and I give you my word we had to rig a
windlass when we were half —but, there, you won’t
believe me.
‘Sr” : Those Abo-liars who have been try-
ing to close on the fiercest wind stakes wouldn’t
know a decent blow if they met one. At Bridge-
water (Southern Tasmania), what we would call an
ordinary puff of wind will take the gold stopping
out of your teeth. Most of the men of the district
are bald, and the lamp posts are built underground.
All beer is frozen. If served in liquid form the wind
would blow it to Gehenna. In the summer a decent
gale will blow meat.
“Sir Octopus”: This argument concern-
ing the facial architecture of my family satisfies me
that herds of people who describe the octopus in
great detail have never seen , one. The best de-
scription I’ve met is by Victor Hugo, a man who
knew his subject. Said he:—
It (the octopus) looks like a bundle of rags, and
resembles in shape a closed umbrella without i
handle. This misshapen mass advances towards you
slowly; suddenly it opens ; eight long tentacles ex-
tend from around a face with two dull glassy eyes.
• . . .It is a spider in its shape. . . .It is like a sensi-
tive plant.... English mariners call them devil-fish
and blood-suckers. In the Channel Islands they are
spoken of as picuvre... .It has two large, hut in-
distinct eyes, resembling the color of the sea. When
the picuvre is in pursuit of prey, or lying in wait,
it grows smaller, reduces itself as it were, and is
scarcely discernible in the half light beneath the
sea. . . .A lump of slime that has an instinct. . . .The
picuvre is a hypocrite.... its approach is heralded
by no sound.... It has neither bone, flesh or blood.
.... There is one orifice in the centre of its ten-
tacles. Is it a mouth or vent? The same open-
ing serves both purposes. It is the entrance and
the exit.
Now, will “Reka,” “A.N.,” and “N. or M.” get back
to their hay ?
“Wandi” : When you have sampled many
ways and means of getting elsewhere in the great
spaces of the interior, including rides on donkey-back
and camel-back, in shanghais, sulkies and waggon-
ettes, in mail coaches, carts and bullock-drays, per
boot and per bike, you can appreciate a railway car
much more than when you come off a sea voyage,
or have been used to motoring on civilised roads. It
is the most satisfactory way of travelling when you
have to cover long distances —but as a means of
seeing the country it is a dead failure. Most over-
sea visitors, whose object is a book on Australia,
stick to the comfortable railroad, which accounts for
the preponderance of false impressions. The main
scenery on a railway line is embankments, inter-
spersed with tunnels and long lines of heavy fences,
the bleached rails whereof invite you to try Killem’s
pills, and to drink Hogg’s whisky. From the seat of a
vehicle you have a broad panorama spread around
you most of the time. On horseback you get in
closer touch with it. Travelling on a bike you see
little but the track in front of you ; like the donkey,
the wheel requires too much attention. The camel
affords you a fine, lofty view—well shaken as you
take it. Perched among the elaborate trappings with
which the Centralian fits his riding camel, and en-
joying a fragrant cheroot, you might imagine your-
self an Asiatic potentate, especially when you find a
little place called Jericho on your northern track.
But the best way of all to see the country, and to
absorb the scenery, and all the local features and
peculiarities, and to learn the habits and character of
the inhabitants, is per boot. There is no one living
who knows Australia more intimately than the swag-
man.
# # * *■
“Yarrum” : “Talk about horse sense !” said
Casey. “Dog sense licks it to a frazzle. Once, at
Waratah (N.S.W.), I lived next door to a Scotch
collie. One morning I went out to the dividing
fence, and emptied some meat into a tin the brute
used to feed out of. He looked his thanks at me.
Next morning I heard a banging against the back
door, and, when I opened it, there he wag, with his
battered tin in his mouth, and a supplicating look
about his countenance. I contributed a couple of
chops. After that he used to bail me up with his
tin wherever he saw me, and I had to clear out to
the Sydney side of Newcastle to get shut of him.
Last time I met him was in Hunter-street. He
knew me at once, and tears of annoyance fairly
coursed down his jowl. You see, he hadn’t his tin
with him.”
A COMPLICATION.
ONE-TIME FRIEND ( anxiously): “ Well, I
s’pose we’d better get along.”
THE THIRSTY ONE (hopefully): “A long
what?”
“W’lang” : Corio is both Italian and Aus-
tralian aboriginal, says a writer (B. 31/10/’l2). Well,
Ballarat is Gaelic as well as Australian. In both
cases it carries an “a” more than now commonly
used, and means the same, practically, in each in-
stance. In Gaelic the meaning is “The meeting of
the waters,” and in abo. “A good camping place.”
MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world has changed a mighty piece
Since breezes used to blow , '
Across the pigs, and calves, and geese,
And through ,my sprouting mo.;
Since Mary used to coyly smile
At me beside the fire,
What time I used, with youthful guile,
To dodge her father’s ire.
The pigs have long since turned to pork;
The calves are mostly cows;
The geese have vanished—on a fork.
And what of Mary’s vows?
She married long ago, I’m told
By chaps who came from there,
. A butcher who was fat and old,
And innocent of hair.
The horses Mary used to ride
(She took a dainty seat!)
Most un-po-et-i-cally ‘ died
Of not enough to eat. 1
The book of verses that I wrote
To Mary long ago
Has shed its leaves' to gaily float
On all the winds that blow, i !•■■■'
The ribbons that I gave (ah! dregs!)
With many raptures, then,
I’m told are tied around the legs
Of some old ducky hen.
The log whereon we used to sit
And share our joy and grief
Was info pig-sty palings ■ split
By him who murders beef.
And that old stump, where every night
We met at nine o’clock
Our young affections to requite,
I? now a butcher’s block.
Thus has Romance got stained with grease
Since breezes used to blow
Across the pigs, and calves, and geese
When I was Mary’s beau.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


THE BULL IN McGOWEN’S CHINA SHOP.


DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Flatulence, Heart-
burn, Acidity of Stomach, and all Stomach Troubles.
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
Nervous and run-down women are greatly benefited
by Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract. It never
fails to restore the lost energy and vitality necessary
to women.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
PAHI HOTELKEEPER BAD WITH COLIC.
Mr. Joseph Ryan, hotelkeeper of Pahi (N.Z.), was
very bad with colic, and tried many remedies, with-
out results. Then the Honorable Mrs. Scotland ad-
vised his wife to give him Chamberlain’s Colic 3nd
Diarrhoea Remedy. He says: “I was sceptical and
refused to take it. I reckoned such things were no
good. At last I got so bad that my wife prevailed
upon me to try it. After two doses I was right, and
have been so ever since. I was in a bad way, I can
tell you. but now f swear by Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy, and always keep it handy.”*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A TIMELY VISIT.
"But do you think the Japs will weally come
to Austwalia? ”
“No. Not once they’ve seen Mr. Wade!"
Heard his final “stop,” W. D. Cruick-
shank, for many years chief marine sur-
veyor to N.S.W.'Government, and Board of
Trade Examiner for Engineers. Cruick-
shank was known as the father of marine-
engineer surveying in the Ma State, and
his work on boiler-construction is a text-
book all over Australia; also, his remarks
on engineers’ examinations are still studied,
though 20 years old, while “Cruickshank’s
Questions” continue to be crammed down
the valves of the budding marine engineer.
On his retirement in 1900 he was appointed
employers’ representative to the N.S.W.
Arbitration Court as then constructed, but
was knocked over by a paralytic stroke soon
Ritorwards.
Four years or so ago Edward Officer—one
of the Officers of a Lower Darling squattage
—held in Melbourne an exhibition of his
paintings, which failed to attract any special
attention. He has spent the intervening
time in European study, and now again
stands ready to receive the brick of criti-
cism and the red wafer of admiration at
Melbourne Athenaeum. A critic might be
excused for imagining the SO pictures to be
the work of two artists. Officer has achieved
a certain impressionistic prettiness in his
paintings of scenes in Normandy and Brit-
tany ; on the other hand, the Australian
landscape labelled “Relentless Summer” is
full of stony realism. In his larger Aus-
tralian works he succeeds in producing
the idea of limitless plains, by filling up two-
thirds or more of his canvas with sky ; and
in at least one effort, “The Woolshed,” he
has harnessed the Australian sunlight to his
paint waggon, and driven it into the picture
without upsetting the vehicle. Some of the
seascapes are good, but conventional. Others
are merely conventional.
BARTON, GRIFFITH AND O'CONNOR, OF THE AUSTRALIAN HIGH COURT.
Amongst the guests at Bathurst (N.S.W.)
during that town’s jubilee the other day was
Mrs. Turpin, a daughter of G. W. Evans,
the surveyor who laid out the first 'road
from the Nepean to the Macquarie, and who
also discovered the Lachlan —the Governor
of the day was Lachlan Macquarie. Mr.
Evans, in the mid-thirties, kept a book-store
in Bridge-street, Sydney. He died near
Ilobart in 1552.
Mrs. Howarth, who died last week at
Leichhardt (N.S.W.), had some sort of a
distinction: she belonged to the most-
drowned family in Australia. Five of her
brothers went down in the H.M.S. Black
Prince during the Crimean War, and a
sixth went to the bottom in a West India-
man. Mrs. Howarth’s first husband, named
Fearnside, just escaped the family He
was in the Royal Engineers, and came to
Tasmania in the Lady Montague in 1852
with convicts. Instead of returning, he de-
cided to settle down there. So the Lady
Monty left Hobart without him —and wasn’t
seen again. The eldest son joined the navy,
and afteT having been wounded in the Ash-
antee War, also joined Davy Jones. There
are seven children living, 39 grandchildren
and 10 great-grandchildren; so there is still
plenty of material for the old curse to work
on.
Some capital will be returning to the
country shortly as a result of the Austra-
lian Labor Government’s “mad experimental
legislation.” William Cooper, described bv
Debrett as Baronet, of Woollahra, is to
arrive and reside permanently here as a pro-
test against the Fisher Ministry’s scoun-
drelly doings. He settled his property some
time ago so as to leave his family a certain
considerable amount and himself and his
wife. a matter of £12,000 per annum. But
his income is almost entirely derived from
Woollahra and other Sydney suburban
house property, the taxation on which, with
the absentee impost super-added, runs into
about £BOOO a year. No self-respecting
baronet can exist on £4OOO a year in Eng-
land, so the old gentleman has decided to
attempt the feat of battling along in these
uncivilised parts on £lOO or so a week. If
he succeeds it will be yet another* tribute to
that indomitable British pluck which has
enabled the Flag of Empire—and so forth
and so on. The preliminary effort will pro-
bably be made in the house of the Herbert
Allen family—a villa residence at Double
Bay. The homing exile is a shade over 60.
He married a Hill, of Sydney (two of her
sisters reside in that city already), and he
has a son and heir.
Dunn, Labor M.L.A. for Mudgee (N.S.W.),
whose dramatic resignation some months
ago struck the Parliamentary machine in
the solar plexus, assisted at a different sort
of ceremony last week, when his parents
celebrated their golden wedding. Dunn,
sen., has been 60 years in Australia, and
the effects of the enervating climate, and
the loneliness of the vast spaces, and the
dreariness of the bush, and all the other
devils that haunt us. were clearly shown
when the family handed up the golden-
wedding gift. It was a saddle !
Archbishop Carr mourns his most liberal
layman, Tom Verga, the printer. Verga
only had a small-looking business —originally
Stubbs and Verga, in Little Collins-street—
yet, in the course of years, he spent £12,000
on St. John’s, Clifton Hill, and, dying, he
leaves it property valued at £4OOO. When
Mr. and Mrs. Verga started their benefac-
tions, St. John’s was a dismal ruin. Now
it is a thing of beauty, and the home of a
real live church, under the Rev. McCarthy,
the Archbishop’s Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer.
When Ferrer, who stood for secular edu-
cation, was shot at Barcelona, the Spanish
Premier Canalejas was promised a sudden
ending. Since then the clouds had cleared,
and the Premier was so satisfied with the
general calm that he used to walk the streets
of Madrid quite unattended. Last week he
paid for his misplaced confidence with his
life. Considering his environment, Canale-
jas was a very advanced man, though he
represented peaceful evolution as opposed
to sudden revolution. Spain’s tr< ,:ble is
that there is no large man visible ~o take
his place; and Spain wants a large man
very badly.
Poor John Murray is in dreadful trouble
over something he said at the Mayor of
Melbourne’s dinner. In his efforts to be
humorous where women are concerned, John
Weary always combines the playfulness of
the bear with the adroitness of the china-
shop bull. This time he out-Murrayed Mur-
ray. Talking of the “Queen City of the
South,” he looked at the array of expen-
sively-dressed women in the Town Hall bal-
conies—women who had come prepared to
hear themselves described as guardian angels
of. the feast, or words to that effect —and
said in his loud, ponderous tones: “Mel-
bourne, unlike the ladies, grows more beau-
tiful as she becomes older.” Whereupon
350 women of uncertain age muttered
‘ Beast!” and 550 elderly feeders remarked
that the speaker, with one little syllable, had
turned a pat of butter into a dose of physic.
Martin, the biggest Chief Justice
N. S. Wales has had :
The largest monument in the old R.C. cemetery
at Parramatta is over the remains of John Mar-
tin, of Fermoy, Ireland, who died in 1861, aged 75
years, and Mary, his wife, who died in 1876, aged 81
years. They were the parents of Chief Justice James
Martin. When Mrs. Martin died, the ‘‘Chief” jour-
neyed to Parramatta to personally see to the pre-
parations. He found the vault filled with water.
Stepping across the road he purchased buckets, etc.,
at a store, and employed a couple of men to bale out,
while he chatted with the oldest inhabitants. When
there was no water left for the buckets to work on,
James Martin had them filled with beer for the bene-
fit of the hangers-round. The “Chief” and his wife
lie in an Italian marble vault above ground, on the
cliffs by the sea at Waverley Cemetery. The wife
selected the spot, and had the monument built. The
‘Chief’s” body had been in the vault of the Longs
at Randwick ; but the wife had it removed, deciding
that, if somewhat separated in life, they should be
at least united in death.
. Hal Gye is now represented in the smok-
ing-room of the Yorick Club, London, by a
caricature in color of John Coates, the
somewhat horse-like tenor of the Quinlan
Opera Co. Coates, as Lohengrin, was done
to the order of Mr. Edgar Carter, of Golds-
brough, Mort and Co., who is a member of
the Yorick, and has two brothers of some
note in Cockney bohemian circles. One is
a well-known actor, the other is art critic
and editor of “The Year’s Art.” Alexander
Watson had the drawing when he left Mel-
bourne for London a few weeks ago, and
undertook to deliver it safely. Watson, by
the way, bought a libellous caricature of
himself from Gye, and appeared to be
tickled to death” by it. Just now the
artist is meditating over a commission from
Margaret Cooper, who wants a caricature
portrait which will “be not quite so horrid”
as the one drawn for The Bulletin. The
lady’s sense of humor will permit horridness
—in moderation.
A FAILING.
“And how do you like the new bishop?"
“ Ah, dear brother, a most worthy man; but
he gets so awfully angry when he loses at
cards."
Pymble, on the North Shore (Sydney)
railway, is having a new Anglican church
dedicated to St. Swithin, and the parishioners
are asking the Archbishop who this saint
was, and how he gained canonisation. There
is no other church in Australia named after
him, they discover. The Archbishop tells
them, and in return they might tell him, if
they know, who Jt'ymbie was. Bill was his
front name, and SO years or thereabouts ago
he kept a little, lonely, wayside pub in tne
district. It can hardly be said to have
kept him, because he had to add fruit-
growing and wood-carting, in order to knock
out a living.
"Tiny” Wilson, the detective, has just
died, in Melbourne. He came in the second
Victorian flight, working with Commissioner
O’Callaghan, Brown, Christie, Coleman,
Hartley, Jennings, Lomax, Mackey, Mahony,
Nixon, Ward, and the O’Donnells. With
the first flight were Eason, Black and “old
Jack” Williams. They had desperate crim-
inality to deal with, and were up to it. Ever
since Black’s day there has been a sighing
that the men are not what they were. Yet
such as Berliner and Wilson were smart
enough. Wilson did brilliant things; never-
theless from the front line he subsided into
mere Customs work, preceding Christie.
After that he went to the Railways, while
little lynx Lomax, at the Post Office, was
presently succeeded by O’Callaghan’s keenly
efficient partner, Nixon. All through, the
Melbourne practice seems to be to apply the
first-class men to the second-class work.
T. A. DIBBS,
45 years General
Manager of the
Commercial
Bank of Sydney.
Died last week, aged 76, Samuel Clift, a
native of East Maitland (N.S.W.), and a
very “solid” citizen of those parts. The
Clift family owned for many years the
cattle run known as Breeza, at one time
considered to be about the world’s end.
Later on, the discovery of coal in the Clift
properties put much coin in the family’s
pocket. Samuel had an occasional thirst
for public life; but he wasn’t the sort to
make a popular politician.
MRS. ONSLOW’S REVENGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With a wife’s indignation Mrs. Onslow spoke her
mind about the man who had caused her husband,
the member for Waverley, to be ejected from the
Legislative Assembly Chamber. “I don’t think,”
she said, in addressing a gathering of women Liber-
als, “that Mr. Willis is worth reading about. I
don’t know why he should occupy the best sheet
of the morning papers. I always turn that sheet
over when I see a reference made to Mr. Willis, and
I miss other matter that is good in consequence.”
—Sydney D.T., 15/11/’l2.
Oh, my dear!
Did you hear
Mrs. Onslow speak of Willis? So impressive! So
Now what
Is that word? You know the one, dear!... .Never
mind now, I’m too hot—
After hearing how he treated her. dear husband. ’Pon
my word
It’s disgraceful! Yes, disgraceful! Really, dear,
I never heard
Such a story of disloyalty, ungratefulness and spite!
If they put That Man in prison it would only serve
him right!
And to think, my dear, he's sitting in the House as
large as life,
Saying things to - Mr. Onslow that offend his poor,
dear wife!
And of course, my dear, the Onslows —well, good
gracious, who is he
To dictate to any member of that splendid family?
Why it’s awful —simply awful! That Man Willis
has no right
To correct dear Colonel Onslow, who is polished and
polite!
After all, what is the Speaker? Almost anyone, it’s
clear,
If he likes can be a Speaker. Oh, it’s very simple,
dear!
Why, the very poorest Creature in the House can
wear a wig
And dictate to all his betters, if he does not care a
fig
For Tradition, Rank and Breeding ! Any Horror can
do that!
Hut he cannot be an Onslow! That is what they’re
raging at!
That, my dear’s the only reason for these vulgar
shouts and hoots—•
They are conscious they’re not worthy to black
Colonel Onslow’s boots!
So they simply try and crush him with the help of
What’s-His-Name.
But, my dear, that brave man sits there with his
heart and soul aflame!
And why does he? He’s an Onslow and a Liberal,
my dear !
And, though in most dreadful danger, scorns to
show a sign of fear.
And she will not read her paper!—hardly glances at
a line,
Just because it mentions Willis! Don’t you think
that’s really fine?
It is more, my dear! It’s queenly ! It just shows
how Onslows can
Calmly crush a horrid upstart! Oh, I wouldn’t be
That Man!
Just imagine, dear, your feelings if you heard your
very name
Spoilt dear Mrs. Onslow’s paper! Why, you'd simply
die of shame.
So you can’t tell me this Willis, heartless as he
seems to be,
Is unruffled by her action ! It must hurt him fright-
fully!
If it’s true he doesn’t worry and refuses to be
blamed.
Well, it’s what one might expect, dear, and he ought
to be ashamed !
N.S.W.
MARION O’HEAVENS.


Wim
mm^m
m
§§iS
m
vim
H
aw
if
.■
apipv:
v9%sV • ‘ >
§tf|t i
t >. a;
IP
■ 7
isvX- .<■_■:
; 3»
C>*
■XXX 1.,
-
, r - ’ /• ('
. ••
I
US
. 7 : ’ • ' ■ 7.
■
V7 ; 7 : • •
TSa
• -
K
'j: i.,«, ‘. .. ;:. 1
•
- 7
sia
®!7 r I 1 I
; '
z
'? ' ' :- -v 7-'. v-' r '' '■■ '• -
.: v
m? ' s *' •
s
. ‘ 7 f 'i ", ' '
m
-. 7775: v7> Hi
7>: -
f s*.* :>• ■• * ■ ' „ ».
" . . :.■ .• * ' •
7, ~ , , ■ .
-
;‘' ' , •• • .*
. ' '7•. ,• ’ '... .
> •* 7-- ' •■•• •
•'/ ' • . •
* •{•’* , Li. <
; ■
77,..
#
if
sms
if?
■
MW- '
' - "W&M
. -i
' - ,
- '
.. . ~-y. . ;r . V >'
' ‘ • .* * ,«•
■ ■
' -• • '
btMs
■
■ V.
r"
V
*, 1, -,v
V,
• .X.
• ••.Xfv
■
. 1 :
•?1 '
ft-.W
;
: 'M- :
• V } '"‘ • :
■ - -' •
‘ ':• ' • /. .
V
.
./• ’;
- ■
- X
S > *.r^V^
'4;
A * 7
#l"'
. ■ ■. • i •,-■•
V > ‘
«'.vdv A-V. ,
.
.. ' 7 ■
'Cv ; ::
• • ,
■ ‘ •» • • '■ .'■■
xv;
77 y
■ ; ..
: - ; /:.." -
.. - ....
*v
■ Vh
. -7
v? - f ;
• /
7 i ,
i
••>. ‘v« ' *
;; A*'
X V.
,7** 7 -,',.7.
'■' w •' ' 7 ’ •
, *7,;, "
, • ■ .' i• {
’ - ;»'S 7
•>\"777 <
"■■7, .- .
M i'.7- '7. 7 7'. *';•
"1
mm i
*•>'>? -7
■; sm
gm
■/
sa
iff!*)
mm 7;
STSSI
V-7 > ■ i:
m
■■: i , t
A?
2^
1)
'<.c
Co
vv-‘
V - ' - r* •■ *'
v- ■*
, r.VJ Ca* -vt> ’
V-A < - <?£fTT*pgJb y > ;,7 ' ' •
Ikt
■ % ’■yv'wi a.
w
Wt
wm
* 1 iy*» •
. ~
:v^4* : 7
•7,
K
-•. ■(.
m
m
. •
t ;■
Sk«
gfd
yjlUjUf
uuncityv tfuz
e^tce
t
(xyccunt
sux
Taf caste
st!AortXyfl
(/o&ue
J^nxrKe
d>
TtcrtA
xmw


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS S CO.. Newcastle-on-Tyne,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank :
Profits on
Net Repurchase
Business of Old Written Re-
June, Profits. Deposits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1899.. £15,411 £21,032 Nil £6,582 £67,124
1900.. 38,465 8,678 2J p.c. =£13,486 —100,7 s
1901.. 41,907 579 3£ ~ „ 18,880 124,387
1902.. 49,329 4,929 4 ~ „ 21,578 157,067
1903.. 40,806 1,828 4 ~ ~ 21,578 178,123
1904.. 45,585 1,273 4 ~ ~ 21,578 203,403
1905.. 48,348 1,527 4 „„ 21,578 85,991 145,709
1906.. 48,667 1,797 4J „ „ 24,275 8,990 162,908
1907.. 58,324 659 5 ~ ~ 26,972 8,750 186,169
1908.. 61,784 599 5 ~ ~ 26,972 19,590 201,990
1909.. 62,194 937 6 ~ ~ 32,366 9,928 222,827
1910.. 71,878 1,211 6 ~ ~ 32,366 22,000 241,550
1911.. 76,180 711 7 „ „ 37,761 21,500 259,180
1912.. 93,381 1,413 8 „ „ 43,155 14,000 296,819
There is one column there which suggests that traces
of an old trouble still remain on the premises.
This trouble was born with the boom of the early
’9o’s —the same sort of curse as the McGowen Gov-
ernment has been trying to fasten on to N. S. Wales
lately. When borrowing stopped and the lenders
wanted their money back, this bank had to admit
that it couldn’t pay. Feeling rather ashamed of
itself, it offered 4 p.c. on one-half and 41 p.c. on
the other half of the old debt (deposits, etc.). As
things turned out, the offer was too generous, and
a less stringent arrangement had to be made. This
revision practically meant that the bank should pay
3 p.c. instead of 41 p.c. on that half, the extra 11
p.c. being only payable when profits would stand it.
But the old creditors drove a pretty hard bargain.
In return for the just-mentioned concession the bank
must put £15,000 a year to reserves, to be avail-
able for paying interest; and one-fourth of the pro-
fit after various appropriations have been made
must go to repurchase deferred stock, which is the
least-well secured section of the old debt. For 1911
the profit put aside in accordance with this ar-
rangement was £12,587, with which £14,000 (face
value) of the deferred stock was purchased. (That
explains the £1413 profit on repurchase shown for
the past year.) This debt of £14,000 was can-
celled ; and to square the accounts a corresponding
amount is now written off Premises account. It is
for practical purposes the same as adding that
much to the reserves.
The next table shows what has happened to various
sections of the old debt since the last arrangement:
1896. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Debenture stock £983,547 £983,547 £983,547 £983,547
Terminable re-
ceipts .. 891,454 Nil Nil Nil
Pref. insc. stock 889,419 889,419 859.419 889,419
Deferred stock.. 808,758 759,500 748,000 734,000
£3,573,178 £2,632,466 £2,620,966 £2,606,966
Profits, it will be seen, from the first table, have
mounted very rapidly; and that is largely due to
the fact that times have been getting good, and
that this bank has had the use of a very large amount
of money at a fixed rate of interest. The old debt,
as shown above, is £2,606,966; the new debt (de-
posits, etc.), is £6,535,377 ; total £9,142,343. If,
as the result of a brisk demand for money or other
causes, the bank averages but an extra i p.c. on this
amount, it means an extra £22,856 of profit. A
very little change thus makes a big difference in
this bank’s profits. It is a beautiful position to be
in when things are booming. But when things are
slumping, and bad debts are being made, the risk
is unpleasantly big. For it has to be remembered
that the paid capital is only £539,438 ; and that
and the comparatively small reserves have, of
course, to' stand the whole racket, since depositors
and other creditors will want their capital and their
interest no matter what happens to the assets.
The accounts now on the table closed on June 30,
and there was a lot better feeling in Australia at
that date than there is at the present. Still, even
so, the E.S. and A. shows an unusual gain in de-
posits for the year—£6l2,9s4. Of this amount
£372,618 was lent out. Apropos the silly whimper
of some of the boomster-Laborites that the banks
are locking up the money just for spite, it will be
seen from the next table that during the past year
this concern let out considerably more than it ac-
cepted on fixed deposit. That is to say, it lent a
good deal of the current-account money—money
which is liable to be called for at any moment: —
Liabilities.
1911. 1912.
Notes .. .. £13,086 £5.007 Dec. £8,079
Bills, etc 518,256 548,787 Inc. 30,531
Old debt .. .. 2,620,966 2,606,966 Dec. 14,000
Deposits at interest 3,091,929 3,409,907 Inc. 317,978
Free deposits .. 2,276,700 2,571,676 Inc. 294,976
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 3,257,752 3,556,713 Tnc. 298,961
Advances.. .. 5,802,464 6,175,082 Inc. 372,618
Premises.. .. 316,200 294,961 Dec. 21,239
In spite of the pretty large growth of advances dur-
ing the year, the cash position is quite good. The
new debt is £6,535,377; and the liquid assets are
£3,556,713, or no less than 54 p.c. of those liabili-
ties. The new depositors’ position is, indeed, bet-
tered by the existence of the old debt. That debt
is represented by assets of one sort and another;
and the current business is a first charge on all the
assets. From the shareholders’ point of view, the
old debt adds to the nrofits when profits are on tap,
and to the losses when things go wrong. It swings
the pendulum farther in either case.
* * * *
The Savings Bank of Victoria; —
Ex- Written Re-
June, Earninsrs. Interest. penses. Off. serves.
1903.. £326,999 £216,503 £49,618 £19,913 £215,636
1904.. 347,955 265,616 49,445 19,039 229,491
1905.. 368,285 273,646 50,535 32,279 241,316
1906.. 388,279 287,686 51,636 14,046 276,227
1907.. 417,984 310,935 55,400 15,886 311,990
1908.. 456,727 332,951 58,069 16,355 361,342
1909.. 485,424 365,188 59,924 9,703 411,951
1910.. 538,697 • 413,733 64,499 38.111 434,305
1911.. 591,359 468,251 71,528 17,257 468,658
1912.. 664,493 543,242 88,870 10,866 490,173
This is one of the State concerns which have taken
off their coats and invited the Commonwealth to
come on. The following shows what this bank does
with the money, and incidentally explains what’s the
matter: —•
1902. 1912.
Government loans ..£1,589,992 £10,912,813
Treasury deposits . . 3,595,418 659,169
Advances Department .. 970,859 1,311,750
Mortgages.. .. .. 1,2273,935 2,056,460
'City and Board of Works 486,724 1,228,760
Fixed deposits .. .. 1,662,327 3,513,115
Premises.. .. .. 136,000 250,000
Foreclosed properties .. 290,349 21,611
•Other assets .. .. 353,971 211,871
£10,309,575 £20,165,549
Thus, more than half the total amount of the de-
posits, etc., has been loaned to the State Govern-
ment. In the past 10 years the deposits, etc., have
increased by £9,855,974 ; and no less than
£6,386,572 of that money has been borrowed by
the State. No wonder the State Governments hang
on to this easy Cohen like grim Death. It is the
only Cohen from whom they can borrow practically
without asking his leave. Combining Government
stock and debentures with other loans, either guar-
anteed by the State or raised by some public author-
ity (such as the Melbourne Board of Works), it will
be found that 70 p.c. of the entire assets are repre-
sented by those items.
The next list shows the growth of deposits:—
1901 .. .. £9,662,006 1907 .. ..£12,792,590
1902 .. .. 10,131,604 1908 .. .. 13,428,676
1903 .. .. 10,341,857 1909 .. .. 14,101,710
1904 . . . . 10,582,808 1910 . . . . 15,417,888
1905 .. .. 10,896,741 1911 .. .. 17,274,424
1906 . . . . 11,764,179 1912 . . . . 19,662,466
The bank has been allowing p.c. on deposits up
to £lOO and 3 p.c. on anything in excess of £lOO
up to £250. That limit, which had been unaltered
for 32 years, was shot up to £350 on the appear-
ance of the Commonwealth Bank. The rate actually
averaged by depositors was £2 19s. Bd. (nearly).
' This bank consists really of two departments—the
Savings Bank proper (to which these figures refer)
and the Credit Foncier, or Advances to Settlers De-
partment. The latter raises money by issuing de-
bentures ; what the public does not take the Savings
Bank absorbs. Of £2,322,242 outstanding on June
30, the department owed the public £976,092 and
the Savings Bank £1,346,150. In regard to neither
this nor any other part of the business is a large
profit aimed at; it is enough if the margin makes a
respectable addition to the reserves, which are being
built up to meet contingencies. So far as one can
see, these risks are not heavy. Indeed, they are not
as heavy as they should be, because the bank lends
such a ridiculously small amount on mortgage—to
assist people to build homes of their own and for
similar good purposes.
* * * *
The National Insurance Company of
New Zealand, Ltd. (Dunedin, Maoriland) :
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £26,388 12£ p.c. =£12,255 £lOOO £13,133 £128,814
1901.. 24,600 12$ „ „ 12,255 12,345 141,159
Premiums on new shares .. 2,029 143,188
1902.. 32,436 12$ p.c. = 12,500 19,936 163,124
1903.. 27,622 15 „ „ 15,000 12,622 175,746
1904.. 38,414 15 „ „ 15,000 23,414 199,160
1905.. 26,009 15 „,, 15,000 552 10,457 209,617
1906.. 43,626 15 „ „ 15,000 28,626 238,243
1907.. 26,096 15 „ „ 15,000 11,096 249,339
1908.. 30,591 15 „ „ 15,000 15,591 264,930
1909.. 33,666 15 „ „ 15,000 3234 15,432 280,362
1910.. 40,036 17$ „,, 17,500 22,536 302,898
1911.. 38,390 20 „,, 20,000 18,390 321,288
1912.. 43,412 25 ~ „ 25,000 18,412 339,700
Last year showed a bigger profit than any that
went before; but the directors voted £5OOO to an
officers’ superannuation and provident fund, and this
slice has been carved off the joint. Even then there
is only one previous year which shows up better.
The next table explains most of this affluence: —•
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £82,935 £49,052 £26,560' 59‘2 p.c. 32-0 p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 99,950 53‘8 ~ 29‘4 ~
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54'8 „ 33'8 ~
1908.. 313,171 59,504 39,483 52‘6 „ 34’9 ~
1909.. 119,146 60,201 42,645 50’5 „ 35’8 ~
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47'8 „ 349 ~
1911.. 135,138 67,656 47,586 50'0 ~ 35 "2 „
1912.. 141,308 63,081 49,888 44‘6 „ 35-3 „
Thus, a substantial increase in premiums has been
got without any increase in the expense rate worth
mentioning; and the loss rate has been extraor-
dinarily favorable. At least £9OOO less than the
average has been called for in claims—which, of
course, means that that amount has been added on
to the profit. And this current year will probably
be good, especially in Maoriland. The anti-Laborite
Massey certainly finds it just as hard to get money
as the Laborite McGowen does on this side; but
Maoriland has had a good season all round, includ-
ing a good lambing; and, with high prices ruling
for all its products, its prospects are excellent. And
when prospects are excellent, insurance losses are
notoriously small, as a rule.
The capital is £lOO,OOO, in 200.000 shares paid
to 10s. There is a liability of £9 10s. per share —-
quite enough to suggest unpleasant things to the ner-
vous shareholder when the fire-bell wakes him at
3 a.m. Still the reserves are coming along nicely
to safeguard him, though £60,000 of them are not
of the very best character. That amount stands to
the credit of the Reinsurance Fund; or, put in an-
other way, it is the estimated total of unearned
premiums—the amount required to cover unexpired
risks. Capital and reserves (along with a few
liabilities) are represented this way:—
Loans on mortgage . . . . £283,996
Debentures . . .. . . 107,300
Freeholds . . . . . . . . 9,800
Deposits and other assets (mostly
liquid) 76,022
“Debentures” is too vague. The rest look all right,
assuming (which this paper does with difficulty) that
mortgages are a desirable security for a fire office.
The interest earnings are certainly admirable. Last
year they were £20,070, or over 20 p.c. on the
capital; so that in order to pay even a 25 p.c. div.
it wasn’t necessary for the directors to take as much
as £5OOO out of the underwriting profit: all the
rest went to strengthen the co.’s position, and make
it dead-surer than ever that the policy-holder won’t
find the till empty, though an extra-sized disaster
should get in just ahead of him.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance
Co. (Melbourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves serves.
1900.. £36,184 8 p.c. =£3.000 £2OOO £11,184 £39,747
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 27,247
1901.. 27,789 8 p.c. = 4,000 23,789 51,036
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 38,536
1902.. 25,059 8 p.c.= 5.000 20,059 58,595
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 46, 095
1903.. 27,453 Sp.c.= 6,000 21,453 67,548
£25,000 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 42,548
1904.. 36,579 Bp.e.= 8,000 28,579 71,127
1905.. 26,069 12 „ ~ 12,000 14,069 85,196
1906.. 45,586 20$ ~ ~ 20,500 25,356 110,582
1907.. 31,572 20$ ~ „ 20,500 11,072 121,654
1908.. 35,413 20$ ~ „ 20,500 14,913 136,567
1909.. 37,960 21 „,, 21,000 16,960 153,52' 7
1910.. 52,500 21 ~ „ 21,000 31,500 185,027
£lOO,OOO Reserves transferred to Capital.. 85,027
1911.. 49,022 12 p.c. = 24,001 25,021 110,048
1912.. 42,123 12 „ „ 24,001 18,122 128,170
That 12 p.c. div. is a lot better than it looks in
the last line. You need to read the other lines,
“Such-and-such Reserves transferred to Capital.” In
1900 the paid capital was £37,500. It is now
£200,000, though the shareholders haven’t put a
penny more into the business. On the £37,500 paid
in 1900, the present div. is, therefore, 64 p.c., in-
stead of 12 p.c. A co. is quite entitled to do this
sort of thing. Within certain limits it is even
justified in doing it. If a co. made £50,000 profit,
nobody would throw a brick, supposing it divided
£35,000. And having divided the £35,000, no-
body would be entitled to throw the brick if it pre-
sently got in £20,000 more capital, assuming that
it wanted the money. There is no essential dif-
ference between that process and the capitalisation
of reserves. In the one case you divide the profits
and then call them in again ; in the other you don’t
let them out of your custody—you transfer them to
capital straight away. No doubt this system of
capitalising profits often has a bad smell about it
somewhere. But it can be perfectly legitimate.
In this case there seem to have been two main
purposes—(l) to wipe out an unpleasant liability on
the shares, and (2) to make the dividend look less
offensively big. It would certainly have been a safer
and more proper thing at one time if a little capital
had been got from the shareholders, because the
business grew so fast that the risks were out of all
proportion to the funds. Still the co. pulled through,
though even now it is in no extra-strong position.
Its net premiums last year were £200,694; its
capital and reserves are £328,175. Funds are, there-
fore, equal to 163 p.c. of the year’s premiums; and
though that indicates average strength, it doesn’t
put it in the front rank of Australasian offices, from
this one point of view. From other points of view
there is no question about where it stands. But its
business has grown, and still grows so fast (and
business means, of course, risks) that it needs to
also make its reserves grew fast. And that can only
be done by keeping a tight rein on dividends.
Other details of the Colonial Mutual :
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47‘9 p.c. 39‘6 p.c.
1900.. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51’5 ~ 33‘7 ~
1905.. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45‘0 ~ 40‘8 ~
1908.. 156,769 69,321 62,038 44‘2 ~ 39'6 „
1909.. 162,386 67,700 66,012 41-7 „ 40’7 „
1910.. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37‘3 „ 39-3 ~
1911.. 193,294 77,035 78,220 39‘8 ~ 40’4 „
1912.. 200,694 88,193 81,460 43’9 ~ 40'5 „
It promised to be a rotten year for Australian fire
offices ; but things improved, and the results are far
better than was at one time expected. Still, they
don’t compare well with those of the previous two
years ; and the outlook isn’t charming. It never is
for a fire and marine insurance office when stocks
are hard to shift and other slumpy conditions pre-
vail. Only one other point calls for notice. “In-
terest, fees, etc.,” brought in £13,082. That means
only 54 p.c. of the dividend. The underwriting
profit had to supply the rest. The dividend is too
big ; anyway, it takes too much of the underwriting
profit to pay it. But if the reserves are not grow-
ing as quickly as they should, what there is of them
is very good ; for no word of complaint can be made
about the quality of the assets, on the whole.
The Farmers’ Co-operative Associa-
tion op Canterbury (M.L.) :
Unex-
plained
Addi-
, . Writ- tions
Visible ten tu Ke . Re .
May, Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves, serves
1901.. £14,169 9| p.c. = i 5799 £6,207£258 £843£33 11 9
1902.. 8,091 9 „ „ 6859 5,188 1535 777 29 398
1903.. 16,632 9£ „ ~ 6185 7,240 466 250 32 389
1904.. 13,747 9 ~ ~ 5868 6,788 154 S 31'932
July,
1905.. 22,539 BJ,, ~ 6560 11,039 590 93 36 375
1906.. 22,035 10 ~ ~ 6606 10,148 949 113 40’520
1907.. 27,031 10 ~ ~ 7126 11,867 621 1,299 49’ 536
1908.. 26,759 9 „ „ 9250 11,825 1364 11,297 65U53
New share premiums, £233 . 65 356
Total Div.
and Bonus.
1909.. 32,592 j {j gjf j-28,124 1863 - 67,991
New share premiums, £167 .. .. 68 158
1910.. 38,366-j jj P;«-' }31,974 868 - 73J552
New share premiums, £2852 .. . 76 534
1911.. 47,8711 } 36,642 2094 85,669
New share premiums, £7277 .. .. 92,946
1912.. 49,608 P- c - } ? 1684 - ?
When these accounts come up for their post-mortem
it is always the same. The operator has either to
make a wild guess at figures, or hold them over for
12 months. And even at the end of 12 months he
can’t fill in the blanks satisfactorily. Twelve months
ago appropriations were reported:—6 p.c. on
pref. capital; 9J p.c. on ordinary capital (there
was no telling how many months some of this capital
had been paid up) ; 4i p.c. bonus on shareholders’ pur-
chases of merchandise; and a refund of 30 p.c. of
certain commissions. It was impossible to figure
the items out; and all the directors do now is to'
lump the lot together. The same this year: certain
appropriations are made—practically the'Same aS last
year, except that the ordinary shareholders get 1 p.c.
less but not for 12 months will it be known what
amount has been absorbed. The management gives
an assurance that the balance at profit and loss is
sufficient to meet the appropriations; that being so,
the reserves will probably work out at about
£93,000.
In 10 years the co.’s principal figures have moved
this way:—
Liabilities.
1901. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Capital . . £60,988 £227,721 £239,272 £308,382
Deposits . . 74,199 183,901 208,423 206,391
Other liabilities 81,611 142,166 192,556 213,390
Assets.
Advances . . 99,523 238,110 285,456 302,806
Stock .. .. 81,066 151,631 173,701 175,207
Freeholds, etc. 33,824 87,274 112.146 120,908
Book debts . . 30,883 103,497 123,630 171,861
Cash .. .. 11,947 62,231 52,139 74,844
This shows swift going. In 1901 the co. owed
£155,810 ; the debt is now £419,781. Meantime,
however, the shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves) have increased from £94,110 to (say)
£401,382 ; so, other things being equal, the de-
positors and other creditors are far better pro-
tected now than they were 11 years ago. The share-
holders’ future depends almost entirely upon the
management. There is no doubt about the latter’s
tremendous energy and enthusiasm; and, so far as
one can judge, there doesn’t seem much doubt that
it adds prudence to its other virtues. The thing
rests on a good basis, anyhow. There probably isn’t
anybody who stands to gain more from co-operation
than the farmer. He is rooked in a wholesale manner
—often because he hasn’t had a business training;
sometimes because he lives away out, and isn’t in
touch with the markets or with others in his own
bus ness; very often because he can’t pav till he
realises his next harvest, and is therefore at the
shark’s mercy. The real, live, economically-managed
co-operative concern which comes to his rescue conse-
quently deserves to be a success. And seeing that
this co.’s turnover has grown from £15.234 in 1882
to £2,961,688 in 1911, it looks as though it is
getting what it deserves.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken Hill
Mines: —
Loss. Dividend. Written Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1905.. £523 Nil £20,290
(£50,000 new capital issued ; deficit written off.)
Profit.
Mar., 1906.. 2,939 Nil £5,000 2,061
Loss.
Sept., 1906.. 3,065 Nil 5,126
Mar., 1907.. 3,039 Nil 7,208 15,373
Profit.
Sept., 1907.. 17,726 Nil 7,891 5,538
Mar., 1908.. 7,376 Nil 7,629- 5,791
Sept., 1908.. 12,418 Nil 7,263 636
Reserves
Mar., 1909.. 11,024 Nil 3,618 6,770
Sept., 1909..' 16,821 Nil 7,589 16,002
Mar., 1910.. 20,357 Nil 7,840 28,519
Sept., 1910.. 7,620 £9,000 8,098 19,041
Mar., 1911.. 34,094 18,000 7,987 27,148
Sept., 1911.. 37,174 18,000 12,308 34,014
Mar., 1912.. 16,391 .9,000 5,281 36,124
Reserves wiped out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912.. 36,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Six months ago this paper repeated what it had
said many times previously—that the position was
far less satisfactory than the accounts suggested. A
profit of £16,391, a dividend of £9OOO and reserves
of £36,124 didn’t look like trouble; yet within
two or three months the directors were driven to a
reconstruction of which many of the shareholders
don t know much. There were 180,000 shares in the
010. co. paid to £1; there are 180,000 shares
in the new eo., but they carry a liability of 75., not-
withstanding that one call has already been made.
The man who dabbles in mining has an idea that
when his £1 shares are 20s. paid there’s an end to
his troubles. No more calls can be made, anyhow.
It is quite true; but it doesn’t take much ingenuity
to sell out to a new co., wind up the old one, and
thus dragoon the shareholder into a new liability.
Of course, a great improvement in the mine was
contemporaneous with the reconstruction. This invari-
ably happens. Often, no doubt, the improvement is
real enough ; it is the hook on which the call for
more capital is hung. There was an improvement in
this case. The ore hadn’t been so much dipping out
of the mine as making a bee-line across the border.
This body began to turn downwards a little, which
means that the ore will remain in the mine a while
longer than had been expected. But how much the
change is worth it is impossible to say.
Most ridiculous ore estimates have been put forward
from this mine. New estimates, it is alleged, “show
that there are 263,000 tons available for stoping.”
That ought to mean close-up £200,000 of profit if
the stuff were as good as that (say) of the Sulphide
Corporation and the costs as low. But the man who
goes nap on that assumption is very liable to be
cleaned out. In the 18 months up to March, 1912,
the mine was drawn upon to the extent of verv
nearly 200,000 tons of ore. All that the share-
holders got was £45,000, and the liquid assets were
less at the end of that period than at the beginning.
Certainly some plant was provided. But on this
co.’s ore, there never will be a time (certainly not
until much more is known about the treatment of
sulphides) when money will not have to be spent on
plant.
The directors, knowing that their own ore would
last them only a couple of years or so, decided to go
into the business of buying and treating ore and
products. _ It was to finance purchases that the re-
construction became imperative. There may be
money in it, or there may not. The co. has never
made such a success of its own surface operations as
to justify us in being sanguine. Meantime the co.
owes £73,520, much of it borrowed on usurious
terms, and much of it repayable very soon. The
litigation in which the) co. is now engaged will not
help matters. Equity proceedings are never cheap,
and the present trouble promises to be less cheap
than usual.
* * * *
Anderson’s Tanneries, Limited, has been
registered in Sydney, with a nominal capital of
£75,000, to take over the old-established tannery
business of Anderson and Anderson, Botany. The
new co. has Rowland J. Anderson as chairman of
the Board; R. J. Carter is tannery manager. The
business is now confined to the production of sole
leather, but will be extended to include the manu-
facture of belting and other leathers.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction and Junction North
are bringing an old row to an issue, having now a
little money to play with. Incidentally, an important
point should be settled. Under the N.S.W. law one
mine is entitled to ventilation through another mine;
the inspectors can even order a connection to be
made with another mine ! s workings for the purposes'
of ventilation and escape. The Junction North has
only one shaft; and, it is alleged (and it isn’t likely
that this will .be disputed), it uses that shaft as a
downcast, which means that, partly by mechanical
means, it turns all its foul air (if it has any) into
the Junction. The point is whether a co. is en-
titled to use any mechanical means to pass its foul
air on to a neighbor. It is entitled to “ventilation”
through a neighbor’s workings. The courts will have
to say what “ventilation” means. The matter has
been pending, for 12 months or so, and settlement
has been found hopeless. .J. R. Edwards has been
advising the Junction North; W. A. Freeman the
Junction. Th£ case will come on next week.
*
Great Qobar, during the last three months,
treated 109(862 tons of ore for 1893 tons blister cop-
per,. containing, approximately, 10,800 oz. gold and
60,3930 z. silver. These products are valued at
£206,342, and expenditure is reckoned at £123,980.
For the previous three months 100,345 tons were
smelted for 2058 tons blister copper, carrying
14,3970 z. gold and 72,1560 z. silver. The grade "dur-
ing the September quarter fell off considerably;
although more ore was treated, the yield of blister
declined 165 tons. The gross profit "for six months
has been estimated at £150,000. Debenture-holders
claim a large share of this; still there is a better
prospect of a dividend than for years past. A good
many thousands of tons of copper have been taken
out since the last div. was paid in 1907. The yields
run: 1906-7, 6115 tons.; 1907-8, 4726 tons; 1908-9
5472 tons; 1909-11 (18 months), 9652 tons.
Re the Ardlethan (N.S.W.) tinfield and
the Carpathia (B. 7/11/ , 12). Logan Jack inspected
the latter last month. He found a bunch of ore ex-
posed 100 ft. long by 20ft. broad. He could not say
how deep it was; but assuming that it would go
down only 10ft., there would be 2500 tons of ore.
Allowing one-half to be mullock, and the other half
worth 33.3 p.c. tin, the value would be £93,750.
‘There is,” said Dr. Jack, “margin enough for profit
even if experience should prove the uncertain factors
in the calculation—viz., depth and grade—to have
been greatly over-estimated.” He concluded:
‘Although little work has been done on it, and there-
fore no estimate of its value can be made with anv
degree of confidence, in my opinion the new-born
Carpathia promises to become a great mine.” That
is one opinion. The other opinion, expressed by The
Bulletin, is that,_ “after the large quantity of tin
still lying _ around is gathered up, the owners will
have to bring themselves down to common earth and
get to work on a narrow lode of probably very
medium value.” Time only can tell which is right.
Meantime there is no difference of opinion as to the
richness of the ore in sight.
* * * *
The copper smelters of Australia are
having’ a bad time just now. The average politician
reckons that with copper at its present price, the
smelters must be making a fortune. Not so. The
smelter has to pay the high price for the metal,
consequently he requires more capital to carry the
same tonnage. His metallurgical losses are pretty
near a constant in percentage, so with high-price
metal he has high-value metallurgical losses. Con-
trary to the experience of the past, present high
price of metals has not induced greater production
amongst the smaller fry. With the relatively high
wages, and relatively high cost of coal and coke, the
local smelter is an easy prey to the foreigner. Dur-
mg the past fortnight a further 30 hands were
knocked off at the E. and A. Copper Co.’s works at
Newcastle. Before the foreign ore buyer got to work
m Australia, the E. and A. Co.’s works kept a dozen
furnaces going. Now they cannot keep one in blast.
Jhe end of Australian copper smelting is fast ap-
proaching under existing conditions ; and when that
happens the present Federal Government will cer-
tainly be hauled over the coals by some of its own
supporters for allowing an industry, essential to the
national life, to be knocked out without extending
to it even the shadow of protection.
* * * *
Harden (N.S.W.) is being given a chance
to sa ye its bacon. Boring has been commenced from
the shaft where the No. 6 level would be if it were
worth driving. Unfortunately, where first pierced,
the reef hasn t improved upon its bad behavior at
the level above. Other bores will be put in ; and if
they don t strike any better hick the rest of the
operations at Harden will consist of cleaning things
up in preparation for the funeral.


The Pacific Cable Board
(01 which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
US.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams. 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
Em
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction, should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be mor>
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and sav
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa, it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices”*
• * * *
If your Pipe has to be carried a long distance
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the pipe to use. Its
lightness makes it easy to handle at all points,
freight charges are light, and transport offers no
difficulties. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, N.S.W.; and Footscray Vic.*
» * * *
It is of vital importance that all electrical installa-
tions be properly equipped with the most reliable fuses
and switches obtainable. The “D. & S.” are stand-
ards throughout the Commonwealth, and the sole
agents are Haes and Eggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence
Street, Sydney. See p. 3.* #
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 356 George Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney.* U
* * * *
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
pipes for the new O’Shannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£lOO,OOO. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
* * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Coi.uison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
Patents —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (BY exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information tree.*
* * * y *
Maoriland has given birth to some re-
markably virile financial institutions. The outside
world knows a few of them; but, from its very
nature, one of the most virile of the lot is less
familiar outside the Dominion. This is the N.Z.
Farmers’ Co-operative Association of Canterbury,
Ltd., which, from very small beginnings 30 years
ago, has now a volume of business exceeding
£ 3,000,000 a year.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The jays who are always wanting to have
a bit of a flutter in the mining market thought tn y
saw a great chance lately. There was the isroKe
Hill Junction, a mine, they told themselves, on the
main lode, alongside big dividend-payers ; yet share
were going for a few shillings. They ran the market
up, got infatuated, and in scores of cases woman t
take their profit. Now, when the market sags, they
write to the papers about the absurdity of it, ana
actually get some of their letters printed. One
“Shareholder” figured it out the other day that the
reserves (worth in the mine at least 18s. to 2us. per
ton) couldn’t be put down at less than £650,000,
and a few extras brought the total to £750,000,
vet the market valued the whole thing at £ IOO, UUU.
And the market is most likely right. The Junction
has been the rogue mine of the Barrier for nearly 25
years. Eighteen years ago it looked as though it
would go on coining money. Then the bottom
dropped out of it suddenly, the sky-rocketty divi-
dends stopped, and there has been nothing but re-
constructions and calls ever since. The Junction can
no more be likened to the B. H. South or the B. H.
North, or the other big Broken Hill mines than a
dog’s leg can be likened to a yard-stick. The Junc-
tion is at an elbow of the lode. There is no regu-
larity, no continuity thereabouts. Occasional rich
bodies occur —and disappear. The stuff is difficult
and costly to get out; and usually it is difficult and
costly to treat. J. C. Moulden tried his teeth on it
years ago. He has since proved himself a ratthng
good man ; but it was too hard a nut for him. Not
that it may not pay a dividend. It may pay naif a
dozen. But the div. or two are pretty certain to be
followed by calls and reconstruction. It is a
“stringer,” and no man who wants good sleep should
have it on his mind.
* * * *
Morning Star, Magnet (W.A.), has given
things best. For some time it has not made ends meet;
and as there are no signs of improvement, mining
and milling operations have ceased. In a recent re-
port reserves were given at 20,950 tons of 445. 6d.
ore ; but, as usual, mill returns have not come up
to the estimate. As a last resource the co. told the
Government that unless it guaranteed to make good
any loss up to £250 a month, the show would be
closed down and 50-odd, mostly married, men thrown
out of work. The audacity of the proposal nearly
staggered Scaddan and Co.
* * * *
Of the May Queen, beyond Wiluna
(W.A.), which a venturesome English co. was re-
cently induced to take on, a Government field geolo-
gist speaks thus: “Most of the work done is along
a series of quartz lenses which have been exploited
by means of shafts, costeens, pot-holes and open cuts.
... .In nearly all the shafts and in many of the open
cuts, pot-holes, etc., these lenses pinch out at depths
ranging from a few feet to 60ft. from the surface...
So far little endeavor has been made to ascertain
whether the quartz makes again at a lower depth.
In some cases sinking has been continued a few
feet beyond where the pinching'Occurs, but the coun-
try rock is hard and expensive to work. . . .With
further sinking there is a probability of the down-
ward continuation of the quartz being picked up,
especially the main lens.” Fortified with this ray
of hope, the co. hangs on.
Gwalia South held a semi-final meeting
at Kalgoorlie the other day, when the liquidator in-
timated that £18,859 had been returned, to share-
holders and £574 debited to expenses. A credit
balance of £1877 remains, and the chairman opined
that after allowing for all remaining liabilities
there would be a further distribution of at least 44d.
per share. A final meeting will be held shortly.
The Melbourne-controlled Augusta Co.
(W.A.) hopes to get its mill going within the next
week or two. Meantime ore supplies are being
broken from the Nos. 2 and 4 levels, where, as this
paper has said already, the shoot is short and not
of the class that a co. with tens of thousands of
shares is likely to thrive on.
*-■***
Apparently the Nor’-West Syndicate knows
a bit about the art of window-dressing. Telegrams
have passed between the manager and the Melbourne
directors concerning the great value of the co.’s
Pilbarra (W.A.) show, and the opinion that it will
yet prove to be one of the biggest mines in the
West has been put into print. Values are stated
to range from 12 to 23 p.c. copper and ldwt. to
21dwt. gold for a width of 20ft., while gold, silver
and copper galore are alleged to have been got from
ore taken from 320 acres of ground adjoining.
Shares have soared, the creation of several thousand
more has been decided on, and all is merry and
bright. But there is this to be said: the ore in the
far-distant locality where the co. has taken root, in-
variably occurs in short shoots, which, although at
times high in gold, copper and other values, are not
to be relied on. Some independent report on the
property is, therefore, wanted before the public can
with safety take a risk.
* * #
Sweet William Consolidated has sunk 100 ft.
on its Paynes’ Find (W.A.) show, and all hands and
the cook are now gouging out 1000 tons, estimated
to return from 20dwt. to 30dwt. Nothing is said
about the look of the reef in the bottom; but as
appearances are against the field being permanent at
depth, the co. probably considers that it would be
better to wait a while before expressing an opinion.
Meantime it has £9OO cash and the return from the
ore awaiting treatment.
Local enthusiasts have formed a no-lia-
bility co. to bore Frasers’ line of reef at Southern
Cross, and are getting substantial State assistance.
Some time ago 8., M. and Co. spent some thousands of
pounds in putting down a series of drill holes in
Frasers’ main workings, but as assays were poor they
rubbed the mine off their list of options. Seeing
that the show is on a field notorious for disappoint-
ments, the syndicate is commended for its pluck.
Bullrush (W.A.) has completed the pur-
chase of the Royal Standard at Yuin, and is now put-
ting the finishing touches to the mill on the Kyarra
leases, Meekatharra, in which it holds practically a
controlling interest. In a burst of optimism last
July, the managing director reckoned the “potential
value of the Bullrush holding” in these two shows
at 15s. 6d. per share. But the market hasn’t swal-
lowed this estimate so far.
* * * *
A peculiar case cropped up at the
Warden’s Court at Bonnievale (W.A.), the other
day, when a party of tributors applied for an order
to compel the Westralia and East Extension Co. to
remove its plant, consisting of 60 head of stamps,
Berdan plans, etc. Tributors claimed that the plant
was on the hanging-wall side, and liable to crush in
on the workings; also, that it was in the way of
their sinking a shaft to work the reef they were on.
The co. pleaded that it had no use for the plant
elsewhere at the present time, hut was iooking rou
Mines Inspector Crabb reported that there was no
danger of a crush, and the Warden (after he had
examined the mine in company with the inspector
and the petitioners) decided to endorse the inspectors
recommendation, which was that the co. g .
till February, 1914, to remove the plant. Judging
by the result of the last crushing, the tnbutors
won’t be there by that date. * #
Great Fitzroy (Q.) has made a 6d. call
to pay some of the expenses at its new undertaking
in Papua. Later on, if the Laloki mme turns out a
big thing, it will require a railway. The idea is
to build the line to Sapphire Creek, so that it may
serve some coffee and hemp plantations, but tne
copper country up the range from the Port is the
main attraction. Most of the shows in this belt
have an oxidised capping, with rich makes of ore
near the surface. So far there doesnt appear to be
any big copper mine thereabouts to blend with the
pyritic ore from the Laloki. Assays show that the
average metal values are low, with high sulphur
and iron contents. # #
The 520-share co. which has been work-
ing the Tommy Burns tin mine (N.Q.), has just
scissored itself up into 52,000 shares. The co.
hasn’t been doing anything gorgeous of late, and
shares haven’t been easily pushed along. Hence, no
doubt, the scissoring. But the South is taking a
long time to forget what happened in connection with
that other N.Q. tin proposition,* the Vulcan.*
For the half-year Mills’ United, Charters
Towers, crushed 10,388 tons for £33,388, at the rate
of £3 3s. lid. per ton. There has been a shrinkage
in ore reserves, and the last crushing reported—7B2
tons for '£l993—shows that the crushing stuff is
not getting any richer. The co. is hi a strong
position financially ; it has cash balances of £35,259,
besides its interest in the Burdekin mill, valued at
£9186. Last year’s profit amounted to £9392.
With these resources it is possible that a dividend
may be paid before the end of the year, particularly
if there is a lucky development in No. 15.
The sale of 50.000 shares has given
Hampden Cloncurry more financial stability, and the
co. intends to push on with the development of its
mines, which are widely scattered. The Answer, re-
cently secured under option, is only 12 miles S.E. of
Mount Elliott. Before the big rise in copper Elliott
collared the Hampden Consols; now Hampden
snatches the Answer from under Elliott’s nose. Also,
Hampden directors are considering the purchase of
the MacGregor, seven miles further out. _ Neither of
these mines can be considered high-grade in the Clon-
curry sense, but with a railway they may make a
profit—some day. It will, it is said, take two years
to complete the Mount Cuthbert line (two sections) ;
and judging by that, the MacGregor line is a long
way 'off. * # .
Golden Age, Bendigo, isn’t full of the
precious metal yet, though it has three chances.
There seems to be a dread suspicion somewhere that
the local sharebroking element doesn’t want to hustle
things up at the Johnson’s shaft, though the press is
forcing matters in that direction. If this is the
case, Bendigo is only killing itself in the eyes of the
outsider, because, having three points of attack,
Golden Age has more attention and a better chance
than most of the shows of the field. It has the hope
of getting gold from the same make the Pike is
working on; then there is the Derby line and the
Golden Gully line. Still Golden Age seems to be
typical of modern Bendigo, which makes a grab for
the local threepenny-bit, and misses the outsider’s
nimble ninepence.
* * * *
Central Cathcart (Vic.) has been the
stable tip of the alluvial crowd for the past half-
year. Last week the stock showed that it wasn tas
firm on its foundations as it might be. The hint of
this came from the Cathcart camp rather than from
the Central itself. Up the lead towards the Cathcart,
the co. has had a long drive, and it was a monte, if
good gold was got there, that shares would buck.
But the good gold has not materialised. So far
drives to the south-west across the lead have shown
wash of more or less low quality. Hence the gentle
scuttle which has scraped 10s. a share off the bar-
nacles that are clinging to the Central bottom. Of
course a poor strike up the lead towards the Cath-
cart boundary is a double-barrelled gun. If it hits
Centrals hard, Cathcarts must be hit harder. So, with
the banks sitting tight, and the need for a “bear
deal to help some of the “bulls” in the Langi Logan
stocks, the outlook for Central Cathcart isn t full
of inspiration.
* * * *
Briseis (Tas.) is working up to expecta-
tions. In London scrip has been tipped for good
quarterly divs. during 1913. Everything depends, of
course, on the Ringarooma driblet. Lindesay Clarke
keeps up his output of 45 tons a month from
the Krushka flat with such regularity as to suggest
that he always has a bit on the floor with which to
keep the curl in his auburn moustache.
* * * *
As the result of a ballot, the Hercules
(Tas.) will be managed somewhat differently. There
are now five directors, with Bowes Kelly at the helm.
The extraction of zinc from slag containing up to
20 p.c. zinc has become tempting with spelter at £26
per ton. But it isn’t as easy as losing money. As
with all zinc products, only a proportion of the
metal would be recoverable. Take a 20 p.c. zinc
slag to start with. Allow 75 p.c. recovery, and
calculate the value of the 15 units of spelter at £2O
per ton. The return spells £3 per ton of slag. It
would be quite easy to use up that much in labor,
fuel and other expenses.
* * * *
Student: (1) The yarn that the Mount
Lyell Co. trafficked in its own shares is pretty sure
to be a lie. (2) Can’t advise re market operations.
Another Australian co. to probe the Malay
Peninsula for tin was registered in Sydney last week
—the Austral-Malay Tin Trust, Ltd: This is the out-
come of one of H. E. Pratten’s visits to those parts.
(Tin and jam seem to run together. It was the
Jones jam people who promoted, the Tongkah, which
was first named the IXL—the trade name of Jones s
jams. Pratten got interested in the business when
he was a partner in Taylor’s jam factory.) This
trust is formed to take over the options secured by
Pratten on behalf of the Malaysia syndicate—a small
concern in 15 shares of £lOO each. The syndicate
gets 15,000 shares paid to 12s. and the public pays
for 5000. Of five areas under offer the most im-
portant appears to be one of 400 acres or so in
Taiping. The greater part of this has been bored,
and the results show i.4lb. of tin per yard. The
ground is also said to be very suitable for bucket
dredging. Horton, a Sydney engineer of high stand-
ing, is on his way north now, in company with
Pratten; and if there isn’t any fly waiting for them
to fish out of the ointment, there is a lot of money
in the proposition.
* * * *
Tongkah Compound is the choicest titbit
that Australia has got hold of for many a day. Not
a good round of beef; for, on present showing, the
thing can’t last more than about three or four
years further, and it has been going only one. While
it lasts, however, and while the tin market booms,
there is about 16s. of profit in about every £1 worth of
tin recovered. It takes £6OOO to pay a 2s. div., and on
recent figures almost that much can be paid regularly.
The co. has a fine dredge, and it naturally wants to
get work for it to do when the present area is ex-
hausted. The co. has considered two or three offers,
and has done a lot of test boring. One option has
been turned down definitely; another, over a block
of 30 acres, will no doubt be exercised if a transfer
can be got. The money for this ground is already in
hand. It isn’t expected that there will be very fat
dividends in the new area; but it will at any rate
keep the dredge profitably employed for (say) three
years after the end comes at the wonderful Com-
pound patch.
* * * *
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances.' W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
The conditions under which Maoriland farmers and
settlers struggled 30 years ago, or niorc were rTiQst
unsatisfactory. The trade was mostly in the hands of
large and small district storekeepers, many of whom
were grasping in their methods. Stores, etc.,
supplied at exceedingly high rates, and, on the other
hand, the produce—chiefly butter, cheese and gra
which they received from the farmers in exchange,
by way of payment on the barter principle, was
allowed for at minimum prices. From 4d. to oct. tor
butter was considered a good price, and sometimes
settlers had to be content with a great deal less. As
far as wheat and oats were concerned, the rates were
usually fixed by the merchants and storekeepers, and
there was practically no option on the growers part
but to accept the rate offered and look pleasant. As
a rule, accounts were squared off at harvest time,
and those who were not lucky enough to be able to
“clean the slate,” arranged for the balance by a
promissory note or some other form of collateral
security. Very questionable practices were also in-
dulged' in by many of the traders in those times.
Seeds were both expensive and unreliable; and
wherever there was a chance to get rich by giving
the farmer poor value, it seems to have been taken.
It was in 1881 that the prospectus of the co. was
issued —a modest prospectus, yet stating clearly and
forcibly the advantages to be gained from co-operative
effort. The interests of the primary producer were
to be served by:—
“Offering facilities to the farmer for the storage
and shipment of his produce to the Home or other
markets, and the appointment of agents in different
localities for the furtherance of this object. The
grading and classification of shipments of produce
in order to facilitate their sale at the most advan-
tageous prices. . .
“Effecting advances to members on any securities,
real and personal.
“Acting as general merchants in procuring for sale
to the shareholders, cornsacks, woolpacks, agricul-
tural implements, seeds and other articles.
“Undertaking the indenting of goods, and acting as
agents generally in all branches of business for the
shareholders.
“Conducting the sales of the society on a cash
“The benefits derivable from the Association will
be confined to shareholders.”
Private Enterprise mostly laughed at the idea:
“It is a very small affair. And it will soon burst,
in any case, as most of the farmers are under the
thumb of their local merchant.” It was true enough
in many cases that the farmer was under the mer-
chant’s thumb. But since that meant that the
farmer was being squeezed in a very painful manner,
the oromoters decided that the co. must live. They
decided not to risk the future by biting off more
than they could chew in the present. There was no
money for stocks at the start; so the directors
simply made arrangements to buy the best stuff at
the best price, and the members got the advantage of
this wholesale dealing. They liked it so much that
others came in. Stores came next. Then a London
buying and selling agent was appointed; then one
in Sydney; then agencies were established through-
out Maoriland, wherever there seemed good chances
of getting an outlet for the members’ produce.
The business, thus established, grew, until the co.
now ranks as the largest organisation of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere. It began with a staff of two —a
secretary and a boy. To-day the permanent staff num-
bers 650. The freehold stores and offices in Cashel-
street (Christchurch) erected in 1882, occupied a
frontage on Cashel-street and Bedford-row of 66ft.
These premises have been steadily extended, until
now they occupy a frontage of 327 ft. on Cashel-street,
264 ft. on Madras-street, and 457 ft. on Bedford-row,
representing a total floor space of 135,744 superficial
feet. In these premises nearly 400 employees supply
shareholders and others with their requirements
from the retail departments, which stock almost
every conceivable article.
The activities of the co. have been extended fur-
ther and further as the years have sped by. There
is a Live Stock department, another devoted to Land
and Estates, another to motor-cars; the co. has its
bacon factory, its twine works, its manure works;
it lays itself out to supply farmers with every agri-
cultural implement. Or, rather, farmers are laying
themselves out to supply themselves with every im-
plement. For the co-operative character of the
undertaking is never lost sight of. The object is to
let the farmer keep in his own pocket the thumping
profit which otherwise would go to the middleman.
The Association also does a very considerable
financial business. Members’ surplus moneys are re-
ceived on deposit at satisfactory rates of interest,
and advances are made to assist farmers in acquiring
and stocking suitable properties. Some thousands of
current accounts, chiefly with farmers, are in opera-
tion upon banking principles at the Christchurch
house and the branches.
The fact that the turnover is now over £3,000,000
per annum is proof enough that this great co-opera-
tive association is widely appreciated. Yet the man-
agement believes that it is still not appreciated as
widely as it should be. The younger members do
not realise the bitterness of the struggles of the
pioneers of the movement; and thousands of others
do not realise what a potent factor the co. has been
in bringing about the present improved conditions by
which the whole producing industry benefits. But
the propaganda goes on. Year by year the advan-
tages of co-operation become obvious to a wider circle
of producers. And the wider the circle the greater
the advantages. For 1911 the co. paid in dividends
and bonuses to shareholders no less than £36,642.
Every penny earned belongs to the co-operating
shareholders, who are the farmers and graziers them-
selves. They get their work done well and cheaply,
in the first place; then, whatever profit remains,
comes back to them. Some, of course, is retained
to strengthen the business—-to ensure a still better
service in the future. There may be farmers and
graziers in Maoriland for whom the co. can do no-
thing. But no farmer or grazier can afford to lazily
assume that it is so. He ought at the least to com-
municate with the co., and put the matter beyond
doubt. And those who handle the products of the
land are also very probably missing something if
they have not made themselves familiar with what
this great and rapidly-growing institution can offer
them.
The financial position of the co. is now unassail-
able. The shareholders’ capital has been gradually
increased, until there is £308,382 in the business.
In addition, the reserve fund, made partly out of the
business and partly out of share premiums, exceeds
£90,000. As money has been needed to extend
operations, shareholders who have risen to affluence
through the operations of the co. have left sums on
fixed deposit. What they think of the co.’s stability
(and they have the best of inside information) may be
judged by the fact that of £206,391 of fixed de-
posits, no less than £118,453 is fixed for five years.
This money and some other smaller amounts find
profitable use in the business. As already men-
tioned, large stocks are carried ; but, in addition,
the financing of customers calls for a good deal of
capital. Thus, “Advances against stock, grain, etc.,
and produce shipped,” amounted on July 31 last
to £302,806. In the days before this co. brought
the advantages of co-operation to the farmer, the
latter, instead of getting an advance in this way,
frequently had to put himself at the mercy of some
trader, who bled him white. Now he can deal with
a company which has exactly the same interests as
he has himself —a company which to all intents and
purposes is himself.*


w.
S 3
HEERINGI
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. IBJB.
Well-Dressed Hair.
The art of dressing the hair beautifully in
the present styles is an important question
m Milady s toilet.
THE LADIES’ HAIRDRESSING ROOMS
at FARMERS’
are ideal for the woman who values Nature’s
endowments. They are handsomely furnished
and fully equipped with all the most up-to-
? a^i a P^ lances ’ anc * include sections devoted
to Shampooing, Singeing, Scalp and Face
Massage, Manicuring, Chiropody, etc. Each
of these sections is supervised by an expert,
assisted by a skilled and experienced staff.
Hairdressing appointments for social func-
tions can be made by telephone or letter.
65 T and Ph 6°c neS: Central, 72 > 279 < 2659 ’ City,
ENTRANCE FROM NEW MILLINERY SALON: |
THIRD FLOOR, PITT STREET. |
FARMER’S —SYDNEY
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 18, 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
The “Twilight House” League is prepar-
ing for a meeting at the Town Hall on Nov-
ember 28. Sydney’s little Mayoress has lent
her official nest for the occasion. A large,
typewritten sheet containing the skeleton
outline of the proposed home was pushed my
way the other morning. It glides over the
same old sea of trouble, the cheap-and-nasty
lodging-house. The Twilight League is up
against one of the most tearful problems of
the day. How can the elderly educated
woman, Who is past work (usually she’s a
broken-down teacher) find a decent shelter
at a moderate price? Hostels in Germany
and other low-wage countries —England, for
instance —have a fair chance of meeting the
trouble half-way. I think there used to be a
dreary place of sorts called “Home for De-
cayed Gentlewomen” somewhere on the edge
of one of London’s cheaper suburbs. A
Twilight Home sounds easier to live in, but
the price of a roof at the present moment
throws a steep wall across the track of the
league. Still, the object is well worth a good
hard struggle to climb the obstacle.
Cronulla made elaborate preparations to
sun itself in the vice-regal smile on Satur-
day afternoon. Every stitch of available
bunting had been dragged into the open air,
and most of it fluttered across the street
that faces the Pacific surf. On one side is
the local church, with a very early Norman
tower and a bell that has to work overtime
to get the tripper out of the breakers. On
the other is the original School of Arts, an
unlovely weatherboard barn. Beside it is a
half-grown brick building, the new School
of Arts whereon Governor Chelmsford laid
a slab of marble.
. When the Chelmsford car stirred the dust
in front of the dais, Downes, M.L.A., hurried
forward to greet it. Hard on his heels was
W. Hyndman, who is something in the
shire council. He gripped the usual volume
ot illuminated welcome, and handed it over
to his Ex. It was followed by a decorative
trowel from the School of Arts committee.
A contingent of fine strapping cadets lined
the road, and a few irresponsible little Boy
Shouts got in the way.
Lady Chelmsford, with Jove’s thunder on
her brow, frowned on the proceedings from
a patch of carpet on the dais. A few of the
local nobility and gentry, who had rushed
the glory of sitting near the vice-regal hat,
gradually edged to the lee side of her
Haughtiness, and looked as cheerful as if an
ants’ nest had found them. The small bonny
boy who was lifted over the collars of the
crowd to hand the inevitable bouquet (which
happened to be a basket) retired from the
Presence with a whipped expression. The
basket rolled over on the carpet, and might
have stayed there if a male infant Thesiger
hadn’t picked it up and stood it on its right
end at the feet of his haughty mamma.
Something had gone wrong with the vice-
regal works.
The dust of pre-election battle is begin-
ning to fall on suburban tea-cakes. Mrs.
Macarthur Onslow is already praying aloud
to the “Liberal” gods to swoop down and
save us. If the lady would urge her party
to put Brains into the House, it might be
awkward for many of the sitting “Liberal”
members, but it would be more to the point.
After they had been informed by Mrs. Ons-
low that she was the mother of three chil-
dren, and proud of it (presumably as a
reason tor voting for “sober Liberals,”
though the argument is somewhat obscure),
the Kose Bay ladies retreated in good order
on the Teapot.
Kirkby Lunn’s farewell to Sydney came
along when the tired tail of the concert sea-
son was almost at rest. But this singer and
her song would be welcome in any kind of
weather. Saturday night’s programme was
one of the best the velvet voice has exploited
in this town. German lilts, which she sang
with all her soul and breathing apparatus,
notably the compositions of Brahms and
Franz, were gems of vocal art. Her inter-
pretation of Liddle’s much-hacked “Abide
With Me” was even more: it stood a mile
° r , so above anything attempted here since
Ada Grossley sang it, with the organ, in the
same place. The Lunn voice needs no wind
instrument to support its firm, round notes,
other than the wind pipes under the satin
corsage. She looks the successful singer.
Sleek dark locks pushed into soft curls all
over hei cranium, and a wine-colored gown
that shimmered under a tunic of transparent
glitter, lifted her into the A 1 class on Satur-
day night.
Pianist William Murdoch, with the Lunn
concert co., smites the keyboard in the sweat
ot his brow. He is so tormented in agitato
moments by a loose lock of hair that waggles
on his perspiring forehead that he might
exorcise it, to his own comfort, with any
sharp weapon he can find on the premises.
His touch is firm and sure, with no inter-
ludes of bang. Murdoch is particularly
handy with his fingers, in the tricky music
of Liszt and Debussy. As an accompanist
however, he has a few points to pick up from
Laurance Phillip, who alwavs keeps the piano
subordinate to the voice. The very youthful-
looking Andre de Ribaupierre is a pleasing
fiddler, with the bloom of young enthusiasm
on his sunburnt cheek.
The Shakspeare memorial committee is
getting into its ter-centenary stride. Last
week’s meeting in the Town Hall produced
a flood of suggestions which were dammed
by the president of the hour, Chief Justice
Cullen. He treated the arguments like pri-
soners in the dock, and administered the last
rites of the law with impartial justice. The
proposed statue stood firm, though Judge
Backhouse tried to annihilate it —“and
smiled and smiled, and murdered while
he smiled.” Eadith Walker the Wealthy
wants a clean city before a Shakspeare
marble is given a chance to look down upon
the local Judge Backhouse de-
mands good drying weather, and lamented
the misfortune of a statue doomed to
stand in a deluge of rain without an um-
brella. The City Council -might take the
hint and supply Captain Cook’s effigy with
goloshes and a gamp. After picturing the
miseries of Captain Cook standing in Hyde
Park and looking for Australia in all
weathers, the cherubic Backhouse had to
scurry away; and the 17 or thereabouts who
were, left behind voted solid for a statue.
Talking of Cook’s statue, Sydney Daily
Telegraph published a picture of it the
other day under the heading, “The Man Who
Put Australia on the Map.” That is the
second time within 12 months the same
paper has made an estimable navigator
appear guilty of false pretences.
Governor Chelmsford will hold the fort at
another Shakspeare greeting this week. For
this outbreak there will be a specially-
selected assortment of brains from the
Teachers Training College. Fort-street
school and one or two other founts of learn-
ing have been asked to ransack their prem-
ises for youngsters who prefer Shakspeare
to green apples and marbles.
it . T^ e ?, e ’ s . a whiff of Buckingham Palace in
the following advt.:—
Mrs. T. H. Kelly requires the following servants
to enter for duties... .Will interview applicants, etc.
Then the list of minions required is men-
tioned. Poor, plain Mrs. Jones, Brown or
Robinson, who has wanted only one Maria
Ann . for uncounted months, has got past
mentioning her sorrows in print, and meekly
implores haughty maidens who interview her
in various registry offices to give the place a
trial. Generally she implores in vain. A
vice-royal tone about this advt. has made
Darling Point sit up very firmly and watch
results. If you happen to require the earth,
or the fulness thereof, or a stack of ser-
vants, it may make for success to say so
straight off.
rr' M l r A Justic . e Isaacs has been sitting in the
High Court in Sydney, with his daughter on
the lower perch as Judge’s Associate. The
dour legal crowd smiled visibly, if not
audibly, the other day when Portia tripped
into court in her gown, with the Eternal
h emimne s peggy-bag dangling in front of
it. But what is a woman to do when for-
getful Fashion doesn’t provide her clothes
with a pocket?
A fashionable film of Limerick lace floated
over the satin shimmer of the bridal robe
by Miss Beth Weedon, of Hunter’s
Hill. The groom was Dr. W. Martin, who
belongs to a Goulburn family. Four brides-
maidens followed the turtle-doves to the
altar rails. Sweet peas, which are prevalent
at these affairs, being as much the fashion
of the moment as the formerly-snubbed red
geranium, were sprinkled through the bridal
bouquets. A strong contingent of the Pill
and Porous-Plaster brigade attended the
orange-blossoming.
The Women’s Handicrafts Society had a
good show in St.. James’s Hall last week.
Leather work, China painting, wood-carving
and needle-work are the main planks of
this youthful society’s bold bid for cash.
Mary Makinson carves the Queensland
black-bean timber (a wood much in request
for the Dryberra capital just now) till it
bursts into bud all over. Ella Richards,
strong in the knack of firing the crockery
she paints; Miss Bozon, another China-
painter; and Mrs. Munday and her pottery
were stalled side by side. Cleone Cracknell’s
enamel work —I fancy she caught her trick
ot color and design in Paris—leaps to the
front in every local show. A Madson blouse
is a dream of fine stitches of eye-aching
craftsmanship, embroidered with fairy-films
of_ lattice-insertion. Leather, handled with
skill by Mrs. Sanson, breaks out in bush-
scenery Miss Bamberger is another leather-
lady who gets good effects in repousse work.
Maisie Edwards, just emerging from the
flapper age, though the pigtail remains,
showed the best stencil design at the
Women’s Handicrafts. The original, some
member of the large bush-lily family, was
painted by Mrs. Ellis Rowan, and is shrined
at the Technical College. The girl, with
a good notion of form and color, adapted the
bloom, and dragged it into a suitable shape
tor a big table-cover. As stencilling of the
average quality is one of the minor crimes
of the century, the success of this effort is
worth three cheers. Emily Leist, a sister of
red Leist, finds an outlet for her artistic
bumps m beaten copper and other Arts, and
Crafts work. She sticks to Australian sub-
jects for her designs, and is getting consider-
ably in front of the ruck.
Strathfield recently blazed with revelry
in the form of the afternoon bun, accom-
panied by musical items. Mrs. A. G. Ral-
ston gave two tea-spreads, and trimmed
them both with harmony. In spite of search-
ing inquiries, suburban dames who were
bidden to the 50-guest frivol, can’t find out
whether they were amongst the social goats,
while the sheep browsed at the other bun-
and-song affair. Most likely the lamb
munched cream puffs side by side with the
kid, and Mamma Mutton bleated with
pleasing condescension in the ear of Mrs.
William Goat. The splitting of social
straws, which suburbia evolves out of its
own imagination, is fiercely reminiscent of
Dickens’s skit on Dockyard Society.
An exhausted concert season will fall
down dead after the Phil., the Oswald Ander-
son song recital, and Mirrie Solomon’s even-
ing with her own compositions. Next month,
I suppose, the average concert manager will
take up his residence in the surf, and only
the wail of the breaking-up school-fiddle
will be heard in the land.
H. N. Southwell has been presented with
a very fat and solid silver-topped inkpot
from the organisers of the recent School of
Industry entertainment. It was tied up
with white satin ribbon, and adds one more
to the large and growing family of presenta-
tion inkpots which pursue Southwell re-
lentlessly. . Mrs. Ashton, Mrs. Garland and
Miss Cecilia Stephen affixed their signa-
tures to the card introducing the gift, which
looks like the grandfather of all other ink-
pots.
Mrs. Arthur Styan, who used to be the
long and handsome Clarice Masters, of Mel-
bourne, sat for Florence Rodway’s study of
a profile. It was called “The Cameo,” and
exhibited at the recent women painters’
show. Mrs. R. M. Sly bought it.
The Faithfull family (N.S.W.) have
acquired another golden streak in their cash-
box. The late Edgar R. Deane, once upon
a time of Springfield, in the Goulburn dis-
trict, recently passed out in the South of
England. His will appoints Dr. Faithfull,
of Sydney, “sole executor and trustee” of his
estate. This cuts out at £26,000 or so, and
is to be divided in equal slices amongst
every member of the Faithfull tribe who
happens to be above the earth at the pre-
sent time. To them that hath shall be
given, and from them that can’t spare even
a bootlace, that little is likely to be bor-
rowed.
One toiler named Walker, who lives up
Cowra way, seems to be the kind of brother
every sister would like to order for herself.
He won the diamond tiara in the recent Eight-
Hour art-union racket, and the sister will
have the right to wear it, or sell it, or hide
it away in a stocking, or bury it in a bank
vault. If Mr. J. W. Walker doesn’t sud-
denly repent, he means to give the bauble,
said to be worth £750, to the sister who
keeps house for him and brother No. 2.
Brothers who don’t want to pass the dia-
monds to someone else’s sister ought one
day to be preserved in Mr. Holman’s Gov-
ernment House museum of curios.
Minister Carmichael wasn’t swift enough
to catch the main body of the ex-residence
of Governors in Macquarie-street. But he
is reported to have snatched the old stables
for the Conservatorium that he has been
dreaming about through the winter nights.
A Sydney-sider meandering through the
Cup riots happened to see the two musical
Dearns, the clever little Lottie and her slim,
willowy sister. They were both feeling
mighty homesick, and were hugging then-
grief on board an outward-bound German
boat, then alongside a Melbourne wharf.
There is some use, by the way, for the
stacks of gold keys a Minister for Anything
accumulates during his term of oflice. Lottie
Dearn’s farewell tears, after trickling down
her cheek, splashed on an uncommon brooch
made out of a gold Yale key. “It looked as
if it had once torn open some official latch
to the tune of popping corks,” says Miss
Port Jackson, who claims to be an observant
minx.
Rosina Buckmann was one of John McCor-
mack’s concert aviary that recently toured
Ireland and the English provinces.
The Sydney Philharmonic Society wrestles
with the music of “Samson and Delilah” on
November 28. Etta Gibson, who used to
sing in the Carl Rosa opera co., will make
her first appearance here, as Delilah.
Samson (Walter Whyte) wears his hair
short and takes no risks. Andrew Black
has the billet of High Priest. The same old
Town Hall is the place.
The Archibald Firths, who are honey-
mooning in these parts, are like to skip off
to England early in the coming year. He
is a Yorkshireman, and she is a daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. Miles, of Rydalmere, who
are very keen about Culture, with the
largest C the linotype can spare. It is still
mentioned by those who were at the wed-
ding that the lace on the bridal gown cost
at least £75 and a possible elevenpence-three-
farthings.
The South Sydney Hospital is promoting
a charity fete to be held in the Town Hall
from December 4 to 11. The hospital is a
young and poor relation of the richer shel-
ters for the sick in this town. It examines
the broken bones and other misfortunes of
Waterloo, Redfern and Botany to the best
of its limited financial ability. Secretary
Cobham Stewart, who used to sad the
stormy brine in the Powerful, is burning
the midnight gas in search of new notions
for the f6te.
“Rosna” sends a line from London:
The J. 0. Williamsons have arrived, and for the
moment are down in the south of France. Mrs J C
goes off this week to look at the Italian Lakes climb
St. Peter s, glance at Milan, sail over Venice anti
walk round a few other places.
~ Tll e Maoriland Chief Justice’s dame is whirling
through hincheons, teas and other compliments, with
frightful rapidity, on the eve of her departure. Mrs
Stout has an energetic finger in innumerable Aus-
tralasian pies on this side; she is, in particular
President of the Women Voters’ Association, and in-
cidentally, is a charming woman with precious little
nonsense about her, and a better advertisement for
our hemisphere, therefore, than those Sassietv ner-
Engliah* 0 C ° me here with a desire to be considered so
The other day Helena Rubinstein Titus stopned
amassing millions just long enough to buy a castle in
wiueu’ f" ly Jt i was , reall y a P a bice in Scheveningen,
which formerly belonged to Queen Wilhelmina of
Holland. Mr. and Mrs. Titus and the babes use the
new possession as a summer cottage. All of whieh
goes to show that it pays better to tend the com-
plexion of lovely woman than to write sonnets to
her eyebrows. The Tituses are now at Richmond
looking for another house, or castle, or moated kennel
or something. c ultl
~S y d ney bride and ’groom hurried to
Melbourne for the honeymoon about three
weeks before the Cup met the second Flood.
But the moon was mostly measles, which
the bride carelessly caught soon after the
trousseau had been unfurled in a fashion-
able hotel. So she had to be bundled off to
a hospital, while he drifted round for 10
days or so, reflecting that the moon was
merely green cheese. Then the measles
which were slight, fled, and the bride sped
back, to be told that she hadn’t done her
three weeks’ solitary confinement, which are
the lot of measles here below. A smart tav-
ern doesn’t take many risks, so the front
door closed with a polite bang. Back went
the bride to her hospital, and the ’groom
sauntered through a desert of Horse at
Flemington. Whether Mrs. Bride slipped
out to join him disguised under a large
macintosh, no Cupper has been mean enough
to tell. &
Pale, lemon-colored kid gloves are appar-
ently the thing for young bloods on and off
the stage. The beauteous Higginson, the
Kings Messenger in the present brisk sur-
vival of “The Quaker Girl,’’ is delicately
striped as to his waistcoat, and raw mustard
as to his gloves, when he bounds into the
first act. I notice a larger infusion of milk-
ana-water in his once ardent stage love
scenes. It is much too soon for Higginson
to lean back and contemplate dipping into
ink with reminiscences, such as “Girls Who
Admired Me,” or something of the kind.
Limerick lace drapes the bridal plumage of
every girl who has Right-minded parents this
season. One father of six daughters re-
cently asked the third bride from his hearth
whether one consignment wouldn’t do the
lot. He was severely reminded by mamma
that trousseaux were not his business till the
bills came in.
George Upward, the sculling enthusiast,
who is mostly in Sydney when he isn’t work-
ing for his soup as clerk of the Senate in
Melbourne, is more or less laid up with ill-
health just now. Which is extra-bad luck,
for he but recently returned to Australia
after accompanying the rowing team across
the globe The Upward who scene-paints
tor J.C.W., Ltd., is a son of this sporting
Upward, by the way.
A well-known Federal politician asked a
Sydney man to give him a tip for the recent
Steeplechase at Flemington. “Why not put
your cash on Statecraft?” said the hurried
acquaintance by way of cracking a small
joke. The advice was taken seriously, and
the cash went the way most cash goes at a
race meeting, for Statecraft had the bad
luck to fall at the first fence.
Jack London and his wife are camped for
a time on their own ranch, Glen Ellen,
County Sonoma (U.S.). Pianist Laurence
Godfrey Smith, of this town, was staying
with the roving pair when the last mail left
b risco. A postcard shows a large area of
foliage on the banks of Wild Water, Wake-
Robin Lodge _ (isn’t this descriptive place-
painting?), with an informative scribble in
the corner. “Here the ‘Sea Wolf’ was
written. ’ The author didn’t have to balance
the ink-pot on his knee, though, for a camp
table occupies the middle of the view.
Angus and Robertson publish “Stories of
Old Sydney,” by Charles Bertie, of the
Mitchell Library; illustrations by Syd-
ne.y Ure Smith. The windmills and
crinolines, which belonged to the same
period, make a . breezy duet through
many pages of briskly written letterpress,
ihe crinoline waggles in front of most of
the elderly buildings, and looks as if a full-
grown north-easter was whistling through
its frills, while the lady inside was admiring
the harbor from the edge of Dawes Point.
How these huge wire cages came out from
England, in the first blush of the 19th cen-
tury, and whether heavyweight wharf lump-
ers were employed to jump on, them before
they were squeezed into the ship’s hold,
Bertie does not say.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORLAN.


“B. & B.”—The Cycle of
Greatest Popularity.
This fact is significant: —More riders in Australia own
“B & B.” Cycles than any other single make. Just
think —we have sold over ten thousand machines, and
every purchaser says they are unsurpassed at any price
for easy-running, riding comfort, and lightness.
Every machine is built by expert mechanics, who receive the
highest wages. The materials are the best weldless steel-tubing
and B.S.A. and British parts. Finish is three coats of stove
enamel in any preferred color, and nickel parts heavily plated
on copper. Prices from £B/10/- to £lB. Call and see models
or write for free Illustrated Catalogue—an interesting book
giving illustrations and full descriptions of every model we
make.
Proof of “B. & B.” Superiority.
“In 1900 I purchased one of your bicycles
in W. Australia, where, in four years, I
covered some 12,528 miles. I took it with
me to S. Australia, where it did 36 trips
from Hahndorf to Adelaide, 18 miles each
way. I recommend these machines before
any I know.”
Mr. A. MOSER, Hahndorf.
“My ‘B. & B.’ machine has been of splen-
did service, running well all the time over
some very rough, rocky and broken country,
and in all weathers. It looks, and is, as
good as new.”
Mr. W. W. KING, Arcadia.
“The ‘B. & B.’ Cycle I purchased about 18
months ago has given every satisfaction. I
have travelled 4000 miles on it, and, as I
weigh 14st. and always carry a heavy load, I
consider this a splendid record. The bike is
as good as new.”
Mr. E. J. BOWMAN, Moree.
“I have travelled over all sorts of roads,
both rough and smooth, but the bike is as
good as when it first came out of the shop.
I recommend the ‘B. & B.’ Cycle to all people
who have to ride on country roads.”
Mr. HANSLOW, Cudgebegong.
BENNETT & BARRELL, LTD..
“Largest Cycle Building House in the State,”
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
SKs
HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
LIMITED
JEWELLERS.
THE VERY NEWEST DESIGNS IN
Enamel and Gem Set Ornaments
Mounted in Platinum
NOW SHOWING.
Sapphire and Diamond 3-Stone Ring,
£6/S/-
fdg
df
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS BOOKLET
sent Post Free to any address
on application, contains over
300 illustrations.
INSPECTION CORDIALLY
INVITED.
SELECTIONS OF THE NEWEST
GOODS SENT ON APPROVAL.
Fine Diamond Cluster Rings
from £l2 and Upwards.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 and 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
Y
'A
w ■* /%,JL
p>
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
“BIND AW ALLA.”
By THOS. B. SPENCER.
(Author of “How McDougall Topped the Score,” “Mrs. McSweenev ” “Spring
Cleaning,” etc.)
With a Frontispiece by Percy Spence.
Crown Bvo. 296 pages. Price 1/- Post Free 1/1.
The genial author of McDougall ’ and “Mrs. McSweeney” gave it as his
opinion that “Bindawalla” was the best book he ever wrote. He nursed it for
years, polishing, here, altering there, until he was quite satisfied that, as a story
ot bush life, both from the humorous and the dramatic side, it was good and
faithful work.
Those who have become acquainted with Mr. Spencer’s other books should
certainly read his last; they will be amply repaid.
This is the largest book ever issued by the Bookstall Co.—a compliment to
the author and a decided advantage to the reader.
Norman Lindsay’s Book
l/<
The Cleverest Book Ever
Published in Australia.
Post Free, 1/1.
l/<
Mr. Norman Lindsay is the most brilliant and versatile of Aus-
tralia’s illustrators. He has made NORMAN LINDSAY’S BOOK with
his whole heart, and with all his celebrated artistic skill.
BRIGHT HUMOR. LIVELY LETTERPRESS,
The kind of stories everybody likes to read, by
EDWARD DYSON
MONTAGUE GROAER
C. J. DENNIS
“KODAK”
GRANVILLE SEDLEY
and NORMAN LINDSAY himself.
SEVENTY DRAWINGS BY NORMAN LINDSAY,
Giving every phase of the wonderful versatility of the work of
Australia’s foremost black and white artist.
NOW ON SALE BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 Georgre Street, Sydney; and all Booksellers.
M
mmmmm
"»S
tfH®
*.,*\ N
si*f?,
4vy^
/*?&* ~ -£ :
3 p 1 -
k-y\i\
m*
y
__%gg^:/
- <T',
J /
=•716
O l ®
>s^7\\
«r
/
SS®
<5
»
Dewars Imperial
»»


SMART FOOTWEAR STYLES
FOR MEN at FARMER’S.
Stylish, durable, and, most important of all, per-
fect-fitting, therefore comfortable.—These are the
much looked for boot features which are embodied in
Farmer’s Matchless Footwear.
The boot pictured is a true representative of
Farmer’s Sterling Values. It is a man’s “Footform”
Derby lace boot, and is in soft black “vici” kid, with
flexible welted soles. We stock these boots in sizes
ranging from s’s to 10’s, at the following prices:—
Per
Pair.
161$, 21|- 8 251-
I WE PAY THE CARRIAGE on Men’s I
[ Footwear to Any Part of Australia, j
FARMER’S
gdf
g
SYDNEY.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
Handsome light and airy rooms ; every
possible convenience.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
G. LOOSEN, General Manager.
THE ROYAL ROAD
TO HEALTH
IS FOUND BY
CLEMENTS
TONIC
The Rev. J. Hosking, D.D., Minis-
ter of the Congregational Mission
Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne, writes: —
“/ suffered from Nervous Pros-
tration, Insomnia and Nervous
Headaches. One bottle of
Clements Tonic put me right, and
was worth its weight in gold!”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 18, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Saturday’s march of 18,000 cadets was
the most striking spectacle Melbourne has
had since it rocked the cradle of the |Com-
monwealth. Many of the warriors were
almost eclipsed by their hats; but the
100,000 or so able-bodied lookers-on seemed
tremendously pleased with the military
baby-show. Though the jaunty-looking
youngsters stepped out briskly to the music,
the procession was about an hour and a
quarter passing the saluting point. Shortly
before the head of the long, brown column
reached the top of Collins-street, G.-G. Den-
man, Governor Fuller and a number of med-
alled and mounted uniforms took up their
positions in front of the crowded steps of
Federal Parliament House. Lady Denman,
Lady Fuller and several vice-regal guests sat
in open landaus well back from the heels of
the war horses, watching and listening to
the tramp-tramp of young feet, and shud-
dering, maybe, at the bayonets that shone
like slanting rain above the ranks. Prime
Minister Fisher and Defence Minister
Pearce were among the thoughtful Parlia-
mentarians who watched the pageant of
youth go by. All these youngsters are
proudly written of as “men” in the parade
reports, though a fearful proportion of them
seem to be little more than two short legs
and a large piece of felt. But for the chin-
strap, I am sure a lot of them would fall
out of their hats and be arrested by kindly
policemen as neglected children.
G.-G. Denman rounded up a picture party,
at the Majestic Theatre, to watch the
screened ghost of himself turn the first sod of
the Transcontinental. Little Thomas and
Judith eagerly watched their shadowy pa
get out of a train and stand in the wind
shaking hands with a number of dumb
strangers. Then they saw him lacerate the
face of the patient earth with a shovel, and
trundle a common barrow along a plank,
while the wind plucked hilariously at his
coat-tails. After he had trundled his noise-
less barrow back, they witnessed the presen-
tation of a small gold shovel, amid a great
amount of soundless enthusiasm.
As soon as the race-time revels were over,
the Denman lady, accompanied by the Bart-
telot pair and Major Quilter, set out on a
riding tour to Walhalla, the mining town
that runs for two miles alongside the great
hills. The going is rough thereabouts; but
her Ex. and the Barttelot dame lare good
enough riders to rather enjoy that sort of
thing. The party camped and took pot-luck
during their travels.
The Denmans’ dance raised quite a breeze
amongst Federal Laborites when Prime Min-
ister Fisher, in his private room, hinted at
adjournment. The party considered that its
labors in the House should not be inter-
rupted by a frivol given primarily for the
Most Expensive. But Fisher had promised
his wife that they would go; and at last
persuaded his people to shut up shop. All
his Ministers, except O’Malley and P.M.G.
Frazer (otherwise engaged in hospital), put
in an appearance with their womenfolk.
Mayoress Hennessy, gowned in shot silk
and brocaded extras, made an impressive
hostess at the Town Hall last week, when
she entertained the members of the Congress
of the Council of Women, now pervading
this city. About 500 members of the
C.N.C.W.V. (stop here for refreshments)
turned up to shake the hand of the new
civic hostess. Running fights are now pro-
ceeding amongst the various female leagues;
so the average visitor found it safer to in-
dulge in gritty, non-committal small-talk
than to wade in with political maxims and
moral reflections, the air being more or less
electric. The reception, which was purely
social, began at the head of the stairs in the
blue-and-gold suite of rooms —a restful place
full of cushioned corners and shadows. The
guests spread out like grazing sheep through
the corridors, and drifted by degrees into the
big council room, where food was available.
Gaud Mayor Hennessy, brisk and alert, per-
vaded the party, and exhibited an excellent
afternoon-tea manner. The Very Best
People panted up the marble stairs in a
continuous stream all the afternoon, and,
once fairly inside, attentive maids skimmed
towards them with plates of strawberries
for their refreshment. In the big hall,
organist Price played through a special pro-
gramme on the big instrument that has
never been degraded with a monkey on a
chain.
More than one Excellency turned out for
the Fred Paynes’ Cup-week dance at Mari-
timo. Carpets were laid on the wet lawns
among the dripping rhododendrons, and the
only complaint was lodged next day by the
stipendiary carpet-cleaner. Mrs. Fred Payne,
one of the smartest frockers in the social
firing line, received the guests at the stair-
head among heaps of azaleas. She was
gowned in many silken layers of petunia
color, and flowers smothered every part of
the house, even unto the pink parasols that
kept the champagne’s head cool in the supper
room.
The aged Baroness de Pury died the other
day at Yerinburg, in the hills near Lilydale,
where she had been rusticating and growing
roses since the death of her husband. She
left two sons, the elder of whom is encum-
bered with the title dropped by his late
father. The Baron dodges about this coun-
try disguised as plain “Mister.”
Burnham, the long, lean Denham aide who
wields a magic golf stick, is a good sport.
Said that the little G.-G. really dragged him
from India for his play. The talented young
man is fearfully wealthy, and is closely re-
lated to a brewery, about the best sort of
relation one could possibly have about the
premises. Help Nutting has a father who
bottles things to drink; and big Major Quil-
ter is the son of the late baronet Cuthbert
Quilter, whose name in England spelt “tele-
phone” in letters of gold.
Mrs. Norman Bayles gave a strawberry
tea at the Botanic Gardens one morning
in Cup week, and got damp, dejected
weather for her reward. A carefully-
selected bunch of Toorakians huddled under
the verandahs of the kiosk, sadly absorb-
ing refreshments, and envying the waterproof
swans gliding on the lake. Mrs. Kathleen
Watson-Dearden was luckier, and scored a
sunny day for her grill party, when she
lunched a select few and showed them the
azaleas. Mrs. Guilfoyle, wife of the late
curator, every year gave an azalea party
just when the blooms were at their best.
The flowers crush and crowd together down
a lawn border, and a fine cluster of cherry
color overhangs the lake, which faithfully
reflects it.
A most exclusive male club is said to have
blackballed a candidate who lately came to
be a husband and a squatter in our midst.
His rejection by these superior clubites is a
mystery to most people, for the bride-to-be
is one of the very smartest society misses,
and her chosen was regarded as being Good
Enough. When the result came out, the
new Australian had hardly breath to call a
cab to convey his luggage to a more hospit-
able abode ; for, as an hon. member, he had
been camping on the premises.
A Sydney girl who drives her own car,
and brought it to Melbourne for race time,
was held up by the Law, which ass insisted
that she should qualify for her license locally
by taking the usual policeman for the usual
drive round town. She agreed, and
the Department, to her surprise, sup-
plied a plainclothes man for the plea-
sant job. In Sydney, it appears, the
official observer takes his seat in uniform,
as though he had the candidate in custody.
It. attracts attention, of course, but spiteful
friends can’t go round saying that Blanche'
was seen driving round town with such a
badly-dressed man.
“Rubber” Edwards and his wife cut out
the rush of Cup-week in Melbourne to motor
in Tasmania. The big grey car has been
making even the much-petrolled Apple
Island stare. The Edwards family run
three private cars —one for papa, one for
mamma, and another for the baby Ed-
wardses and nursie. But the big grey is
their particular joy. It is Australian-made
in every detail, and its timbers were grown
on the soil. As big as a house, it takes two
flunkies to uphold its dignity and minister
suitably to the comfort of the fair-haired
Lady of the Car, who completes the vision.
The dancing man having practically van-
ished from the ballrooms of the earth, the
dancing boy is doing his feeble best to fill
the other’s pumps. One hospitable matron
lately raked the ’Varsity for a squad of stu-
dents for her dance. She was regretfully
told that the coming examinations stood in
the way ; Then she despairfully applied to
a dominie friend for a list of newly-emanci-
pated scholars, and managed in that way
to secure a number of well-grown infants.
It was a sight to see these dear little men
make their entrance on the eventful night
rigged out in the dinner jacket of youth.
What else can be done I don’t know —unless
the Boy Scouts are called out.
The Hordern bridal car has departed and
left a blank in this city. The travelling
showcase was enamelled dove grey, and com-
pletely glassed in, with grey linen blinds on
silver rollers, for the exclusion of daylight
and prying glances. The impressive vehicle
turned up with the dignity and regularity of
a mailboat, to take its place in the four
o’clock tea line in Collins-street.
Mrs. Pinschoffs reception, at Studley Tark,
was blessed with a day of blue- and gold. It
was mainly a gathering of musical souls.
Kirkby Lunn, dressed in chalky white, looked
in. Willie Murdoch, who accompanied her,
wore his most soulful expression. A bunch
of fresh young voices, cultivated in the Pins-
chof reserve, caused a tuneful diversion, and
daughter Carmen Harris’s best top-note rose
to the occasion. Mrs. Albert Miller and
Mrs. Hodges were on hand. Dame Best,
whose twins were on view outside, wore a
gratified expression and some nice clothes.
Mrs. Merrill was garbed quaintly in a black-
and-gold zebra outfit. Elizabeth and Louise
Pinschof made themselves useful by calling
out the names of the guests as the motors
flashed up to the gate.
Miss Pope, of Sydney, and her sister
petrolled off home last week, by way of the
dusty Sydney-road. The two girls motored
over to the Cup by themselves ; and though
a breakdown made them miss the big race,
they had the satisfaction of parading their
new clothes on Oaks and Steeplechase days,
When most of the Cup finery was looking
very tired.
The Harry Emmertons, who have tennis
champion Norman Brookes for son-in-law,
filled the family residence with flowers for
their annual Cup revel. Mamma, expen-
ively upholstered in putty-hued satin, was
assisted by daughter Mabel, wearing a bil-
lowy garment like an evening cloud. A
good musical programme was much dis-
turbed by Toorak chatterers. An imported
fiddler struggled hard against the shrill
crescendo of talk, and Maggie Sterling and
daughter Mary lifted up their voices in
song. The Grey-Egerton dame, in a florid
frock with pamers thereto, loudly bewailed
the behavior of her native climate, which
had sadly disappointed her British baronet,
and almost decided him to ask for a Royal
Commission. Norman Bayles, Dame Cres-
well, the Russell Clarkes, the Power family
and a Higgins host gave the music a sym-
pathetic hearing.
A girl who married into the squattocracy
from a smart chiffon store has been enjoying
herself thoroughly during the Cup revels.
The local peerage resents her presence with
sniffs and other evidences of high birth. She
gets back this way. While watching the
sweep of frocks over a ballroom floor, a
neighboring matron murmured enviously:
“What a lovely gown Mrs. Yeridear has
on !” The bride smiled a Mona Lisa smile.
“Yes,” she says. “But whenever we sent her
a hat, the special messenger boy was told to
hold the box until he got the money. Poor
child ! he generally had to put resin on his
hands in order to stick to it!”
Mrs. Langlands Jack, who has the habit
of annually transplanting a small member of
the family to learn English, hurried back to
Melbourne in time to air some fine clothes at
the Cup. Though the home is now depleted
of small fry through the transplanting
habit above mentioned, mother’s occupation
as a tripper is not finished, a yearly voyage
still being necessary in order that the
youngsters may not lack supervision and
companionship during the holidays. Isn’t
it strange that, though we import headmast-
ers from England, there is no tuition worth
tuppence in Australia?
Cricketer Ilazlitt is returning this week to
Australia with his wife and baby daughter,
Peggy. Grandmamma Summerhayes is wait-
ing to welcome them and borrow Peggy from
her young mother, who is a daughter of E.
H. Major, of the J. C. Williamson staff.
By the way, Gertrude Summerhayes, back
in Melbourne after an exhaustive tour of
Queensland and N.S.W., is booked for an-
other northern trip next winter, with harpist
Walter Barker. Barker’s hereditary touch
on the strings sounds ever like a gentle
satire on his family name. His father was
minstrel at the Court of “the Old Queen.”
Patrons of the Savoy trembled in their
private supper rooms, one night last week,
and let the devilled oysters get cold. A fire
had got loose a few doors away, and threat-
ened to wipe up the vicinity. Flames licked
greedily out across the street, and it only
wanted a puff of wind from the wrong quar-
ter to make the blaze of a century. Richard-
son’s Cafe, alongside, began to disgorge
excited humans in evening undress, and the
alarm at last reached the Savoy. Out came
the supperers pell mell. In the confusion, a
prominent citizen was discovered gallantly
escorting the wife of somebody else. A num-
ber of less important citizens were not so
much discovered.
The battling Swastika Club is defunct;
but some of the old members are working
over the remains and trying to make a Vic-
toria Club for Women rise from its ashes.
Mrs. Staughton will be at the head of the
new organisation, and Mrs. Davidson and
Mrs. Barlow will be first and second mates.
The opening of the new Club will happen
on Thursday, in the old Swastika rooms.
The indefatigable Mrs. Rumor is tacking
orange blossoms over the names of a
wealthy political widower and a mischievous
young Australienne who has just returned
from a trip to England.
Barrister Ah Ket and Miss Bullock, of
Kew, were married on Saturday last, by
Methodist minister Flockhart, in the church
where the Australian girl had sat piously
every Sunday from her early pigtail days.
Mr. Chia and his bride-elect, Ume Russell,
were among the guests, and there was a
large Mongolian round-up at the station to
wave the departing pair good-bye. Ah Ket
is taking his wife to China for a trip. He
has been selected by the Chinese merchants
here to represent Victoria at a conference
of oversea delegates which is to meet the
National Parliament of the new Republic.
After the business is over, the little Kew
girl will tour as much of China as it may
be thought desirable to show her ; and will
then return to Melbourne. Mrs. Bullock
wept over her departing daughter from the
depths of a becoming bonnet.
Mr. and Mrs. Kirkby (he supplies Aus-
tralian-bred horses for military needs in
India) got back from their travels in time
to motor out to Flemington. They are stay-
ing at the George, waiting for tenants to quit
their fine Toorak house. Joyful friends gave
them a welcome-home dinner after the
Steeplechase.
Stanley Halkyard, one of the clever South
Yarra brothers who have captured over
£l3OO in scholarships, is off to fill the aching
voids of Hobart. Before leaving for his new
dentist’s shop, he wedded Cora Doris, of
the Wrigley clan, and took her to Sydney
for a honeymoon. Uncle Captain Black
came over from the Flyspeck to play the part
of father at the St. Paul’s altar rails, the
rightful person being absent in Queensland
on a health trip. Mrs. Wrigley breakfasted
the party at Paris Cafe.
Guests have discovered the perpetual-
motion secret of the Fairbairns’ race-week
dance. The expensive and beautiful hop,
which went gaily until the milk-o’s yell was
heard without, was kept going by fresh re-
lays of musicians. When one band was done
up, another lot slipped into place behind the
potted palms, and scraped and twanged vig-
orously while the off shift crept away to
pour beer down the cornet and feed the
violin on bread and cheese.
Mrs. Kirkby Lunn, saying good-bye at a
matinee at the Town Hall, wore a frock of
blue brocade, with golden iris embroidered
over its expansive front breadth, and blue
veiling dimming the general effect. She
curtseyed reverently to a vice-regal lady
hidden under an ostrich wing or two, and
just bowed to that part of the audience
which spread its race-time chiffons in the re-
served seats. Her dem'ure salutations never
seem to extend further than the front
benches. There is none of the expansive
Clara Butt smile and the scattered kisses
which made the large contralto so popular
with the crowd.
Percy Hunter, of N.S.W. Immigration
Bureau and the earth generally, is one of
those who suggest the establishment of a
tourist bureau in London for the Australian
education of the moneyed classes. These
people are possessed of libraries of ignor-
ance concerning this wide country, and the
consequence is that they have to discover it
for themselves, or curse it at long-range on
the strength of the slanders retailed by trav-
elling liars and fools. And the number of
liars and fools that are loose and ready to
talk or write is tremendous.
Mrs. Rumor asserts that one of the Very
Best spinsters contemplates following up
amateur stage successes by facing the foot-
lights in England. Wearied of the social
treadmill as worked in Melbourne, she will
hide her attractions behind the wigs and
bonnets of elderly characters whenever she
can get the chance. She has no ambition
to sweep the boards as Juliet or Rosalind.
She is simply mad to act for acting’s sake.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Federal Exhibition of the Society of Arts was
opened on Thursday evening with a conversazione—a
favorite weapon or tool for such enterprises. Mr.
John White, president of the society, conversed with
each guest separately, and then there was music, and
conversation became general. The only silent
moments of a thoroughly pleasant and chatty even-
ing were during supper.
A.D.C. Walker arrived on Thursday. He is a
Grenadier Guardsman —which means, my dear,
amongst other things, that he has the right to wear
an immense busby on his head and a red and blue
ribbon on his straw hat. And his front name is
Cecil. What could one wish for more?
Will Ashton is off to England shortly. The con-
trollers of the Art Gallery have asked him to mark
and inwardly digest the appearance of similar struc-
tures in foreign parts.
At a meeting of the Public Library Board, on
Friday, W. J. Sowden, of the Register, was re-
elected president. This has happened to him four
times running, and < the Prophets only know when it
is going to stop.
Adelaide is threatened with a whisky-and-soda
strike. The hotels talk of charging 9d. for the
hitherto-sixpenny drink, whereupon the man who
wants whisky will probably fill up with water in-
stead of carbonic acid gas, and the factories—which
have increased and multiplied of late—will be left to
cater for the soft-drinks trade.
Headmaster Chippie, of Prince Alfred College, is
leaving at the ehd of 1914. By that time he will
have been in charge for 39 years, have added £40,000
worth of buildings to the establishment, and
whacked about a million small boys. A fine record.
The Tourist Bureau has built an Alpine tea-chalet
at Waterfall Gully. The Governor opened it prac-
tically single-handed on Saturday. So much for
the sneering traitors who argue that the imported
State Governor arrangement is of no value to the
people. The only help he got was from Commissioner
of Crown Lands Young, ex-Commissioner Crawford
Vaughan and a few others.
On the same day the Marryatville bowling club
was similarly treated. Mayor and Mayoress Prosser
acted as host and hostess—it is a confirmed habit
of theirs. But they say definitely that this is their
last year of civic greatness.
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis are going to Melbourne, he
having been appointed one of the stipendiary stewards
of the racing clubs in Victoria. The Stock Exchange
farewelled him affectionately on Tuesday morning.
He was one of the original 50 members, and has been
chairman of its club since that infant was born.
The Dick Hawkers are back from the Cup. Miss
Hilda Fisher is staying on in Melbourne for the
tennis tournaments, and her brother, Guy Fisher,
has gone over for the same strenuous festivities.
Mr. Frank Toms, of Kapunda, has been seriously
ill of pneumonia, but is reported better.
The Adelaide Polo Club is training hard, and, in
the intervals, seething with excitement. The G-G
and his horsey collection of A.D.C.’s will be here be-
fore Christmas, and will play against an Adelaide
polo club team and one representing the associated
clubs. The matches will be on December 19 and 21.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


s C, #«*•
X:
,
IP
mm
itisiEs
Isf;
MsKsftwl
mm
.
-
■ '•
V.-. ' ■ : : ;
Pfgsq fßj, 'P ?■■ *
i'll
u J®
.
m
:. fS
■' ’
iSi
imi!
.
m
m
■
mm
■as*..
*
SKI
s
SARTO is made from the best Jamaica. Sarsaparilla Root witb special flavorings, the recipe for
which is Held by Schweppes Ltd. exclusively. Sarto is a refreshing beverage, and being a blood
purifier Has most excellent tonic properties. It is greatly improved by a slice of fresh lemon.
Head Office: 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
tt\e World.
SCHWEPPES’ LEMON SQUASH
MADE FROM FRESH LEMONS.
WHEN ORDERING FRUIT JUICE CORDIALS SEE THAT YOU GET “SCHWEPPES.”
SCHWEPPES LIMITED, Purveyors by Special Appointment to His Majesty tbe King.


NOTE-WE PAY POSTAGE.
Two NEW
in mxtutes Shapes
r r
fdg
Price 1 0/6
Colors j
SAGE, FAWN, GREY.
Peppers Limited,
167 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and effec-
tual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which act in
a wonderfully speedy mannelTTlive them a trial.
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
With the single exception of Mr. H. G. Wells, Mr.
Arnold Bennett stands head and shoulders above all
the younger generation of/English novelists and he
has recently added tosthis) distinction that of being
a highly successful pThywright. Beginning in the
rank and file of journalism, Mr. Arnold Bennett be-
came editor of a ladies’ paper, in which capacity he
professes to have gained his knowledge of feminine
character. It is also said that in early days he had
no love for literature, but was an incessant reader
of the novels of-Ouida. Mr. Arnold Bennett is a
strenuous and systematic worker, and, like most
people who flo/V' great deal of brain work, he de-
rived considerable benefit from the occasional use
of the wel 1 -taowp,tonic food, Sanatogen. “The tonic
effect of Sanatogen on me,” he writes, “is simply
wonderful.”*
BABY JUST LOVES IT.
“When my little son shows the first sign of cold
I always give him Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and
he is soon right again,’’ writes Mrs. J. F. Mitchell,
104 Rundle Street, Kent Town, Adelaide (S.A.). “In
fact I would not be without a bottle of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy in the house. It is splendid for
colds and croup, and baby just loves it.”*
SAVE STOCK and MONEY
fdg
by castrating
with the im-
proved instru-
ment—
DENVER’S
EMASCULATOR.
Its pri n ci pi e
absolutely pre-
vents loss of
stock through hemorrhage.
Write for
it to-day.
45-
PERFECT FOR HORSES, BULLS or RAMS.
Improved Mouth Gags, Cutters,
Drenching Bits, Rasps, Ball Guns, etc.
Write for Price List.
DENYER BROS.,
281 George Street (opp.
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the indignant comments of the Tory
press on the amended Referendum questions,
one may assume that the Fusion party has
abandoned all hope of getting the Labor
party out. The object of the Referendum,
as the Argus, for example, professes to see
it, is “to arm the Caucus” with further
powers to ruin the country. The proposed
alterations in the Constitution will enable
the Federal Government to do this, that and
the other misdeed, and the Government will
always be the Caucus. The possibility of
the Deacook party obtaining permission to
do good is not even suggested. Which seems
to be a straight Tory tip for the next Fed-
eral elections, not to mention all the elec-
tions thereafter.
UNNATURAL HISTORY.
GRAFTON.—The pumpkin beetle is creating great
havoc. —News item.
The pumpkin beetle by no means confines it-
self to pumpkins. It has been known to swallow
match Jactories and other flourishing industries.
It is attracted by a spineless tariff. —Agricul-
TRUAL EDITOR.
“Nulla” : The N.S.W. Government’s plat-
form has been denuded of the plank dealing
with the abolition of imported State Gov-
ernors. It has also lost the timber dealing
with the limitation of borrowing; likewise
the fragment which stands for the abolition
of the Upper House. In fact, is the dashed
thing a platform or a step-ladder nowadays?
“Homo” : Have no desire to throw a brick
at the modus opcrandi of the Maternity
grant, but there seems to be something lack-
ing. The claimant has to make a solemn
declaration that she is not an Asiatic, or an
Aboriginality, or other such contraband
goods; but the absence of any query as to
the brand of male partner involved natur-
ally stirs me up to reflect on a possible
piebald aspect of the transaction. White
motherhood does not necessarily prevent a
White Australia being streaked and mottled
with nigger and Chow, in a manner opposed
to the settled policy of the Commonwealth.
“Dismal Dick” Butler, S. Australian Min-
ister of Woi’ks, now calls himself “Cheerful
Richard,” in explanation of his lavish pro-
posals of water schemes that will not return
i per cent., and railways which the authori-
ties prophesy will result in heavy annual
losses. By way of change, 85-year-old Bur-
goyne last week referred to him as “Reckless
Richard.” But, whatever they call him, he
is as “touchy” as .ever; and should he ever
become Premier there would be a civil war
in a week.
The Balkan eruption and the consequent
rejoicings, arguments and threats over the
captured seaports start the casual philo-
sopher wondering whether N. S. Wales
would have valued Twofold Bay if that pos-
session had been gained at the end of the
bayonet, or whether Victoria would have put
its helmet on a rifle barrel and cheered if
Portland had only been won at the cost of
thousands of lives and millions of money.
The delight of these bottled-up Europeans at
gaining an outlet for trade is rather amaz-
ing to the Small Australian, who has been
hard put to it of recent years to keep his
closed ports corked up with newspapers.
Some people would gladly make the Allies
a present of the unused harbors, if those
anxieties could be separated from Australia
and towed over the horizon.
Some notion of the cost of Parliamentary
trimmings in the land of the Ancient Bri-
ton can be obtained from Speaker Willis’s
statement that 49 rooms are set apart for
the Speaker of the Commons and 24 for
the Sergeant-at-Arms. Yet, in that wonder-
ful home of Party Government and general
muddle, there is insufficient accommodation
for the members within the chamber itself.
Also, in parts of London there are half a
dozen families —families which in their
miserable way help to support Mr. Speaker
and his flummery—who make shift with a
single room. There is plenty of tragedy
mixed with Bull’s comedy of government.
Premier McGowen (N.S.W.) says that
when the name of Sir Gerald Strickland was
submitted, the Ministry approved at once.
McGowen seems to have a shocking memory.
He and his Ministry are pledged to carry
out the Labor platform and crystallise it
into legal enactment. One of the planks
of the platform is the abolition of State
Governors. The retirement of Chelmsford
gave the Labor Ministry an excellent oppor-
tunity to stand solidly on this plank and in-
timate to the Imperial authority that it
need not go to the trouble of hunting up a
successor to Chelmsford, as the State Chief
Justice would apply the rubber stamp for a
few extra bob per week. But the amazing
Ministry clean forgot the Labor policy it
was sent into power to give effect to, in its
appalling eagerness to have an imported
Governor of its very own on the premises.
The absurdity of Party Government was
recently instanced when J. Vigor Brown
rose in Maoriland Parliament and asked
whether a motion of his which had been for
some time on the order
paper would be allowed to
come on. Massey, the Pre-
mier, replied that he could
not allow the matter to be
discussed unless it had the
endorsement of the leader of
the Opposition. Vigor
Brown replied that his
trouble was that he didn’t
know who was the leader,
and couldn’t find anything
that looked like one. The
only way out of the difficulty
would appear to be for each
man opposed to the Massey
crowd to constitute himself
a party, and solemnly inform
the Premier that he had
been elected leader of it. By way of
precedent, Massey may recall that he him-
self once led a party which consisted mostly
of Massey and some empty benches.
Melbourne Age ties a bow on the tail of
the Sosh tiger :
For good or ill, we have irretrievably committed
ourselves to the principle of exclusive State owner-
ship and control of railway undertakings. There are
critics to be found who hold that we have acted
foolishly; but the vast bulk of the population is
firmly convinced that we never acted more wisely
that when we chose our course and burnt our boats
against retreat. And we have the best of reasons,
both social and economic, for so believing.
In fact, the Age might have added, it has
the best of reasons for admitting that the
tiger’s skin, which it formerly helped to
fasten on to Socialism, was a menn decep-
tion to hide a domesticated and highly-
esteemed animal, so tame that it will browse
out of the hand.
The Bendigo (Vic.) Methodist Council is
doing a characteristic rail-straddle. In
Synod the other day it passed a motion
“recognising that it is the duty of the Gov-
ernment to defend the Commonwealth, but
profoundly regretting that boys are com-
pelled to attend drill.” The Bulletin
would go so far as to second the motion if
the Synod would propose to profoundly regret
that only boys are compelled to attend drill.
In the absence of anything so definite, it
looks as though the Methodist Synod expects
Fisher to defend Australia by throwing two
Hallelujahs and one Amen at the advancing
foe.
Party Government reaches about the high-
watermark of insanity. The other day in
England Asquith’s crowd was defeated on
a snap vote on a clause of the Home Rule
Bill. The Conservative Opposition instantly
broke into yells of “Resign ! Resign!” and
the House was actually adjourned in order
that the Ministry might consider the grave
constitutional crisis. It didn’t resign; but
the mere fact that it thought of letting all
the big legislation it has in hand go over-
board because a few of its supporters were
for a moment asleep, or tired, or drunk, or
something is an indication of the mad way
in which the party game is played.
Premier Watt finds his Country Roads
Bill hard to travel. It was a well-meaning
measure calculated to improve the existing
highways of Victoria and create new ones
where they would do most good. But the
Country Party couldn’t sit still and see
£2,000,000 of money spent in road-making
under a non-political Board. McLeod, Pea-
cock and other representatives of Victoria’s
selfish, short-sighted shireocracy therefore
joined with the Labor party and carried
a proposal to change the Board of independ-
ents into a trio of public servants, who will
have the “confidence” of the shire councils.
The Minister of Lands put it that “an in-
dependent Board was desirable; otherwise
there would be appeals to the Minister five
times out of six, and the Minister would be
forced to decide without personal knowledge
of the facts.” He might as well have ad-
mitted candidly that he would be button-
holed all the time by country members. The
log-rollers carried the amendment by 31 to
22, and the Country Roads Bill is in a fair
way to be a failure if Watt doesn’t
abandon it altogether.
UNSEEMLY ANTICS.
This unfortunate state of affairs has caused great
concern to Liberals everywhere. . . .There is a small
section who have even been encouraging the Labor
party. -ARGUIS.
“’ Ere , you in front! Just stop and behave
like th' right-thinkin' Tory party I meant
yer I' be !”
George Greid favors “Pacifica” as the
name for Australia’s Federal capital.
“Pacifica” means peaceful. Our Pie Com-
missioner no doubt thought it meant piece-
ful.
Fitchett, Snowball, Worrall and some
other persons have been doing a huge anti-
Ilome Rule wowse in Melbourne, and cab-
ling “home” to Edward Carson about it.
Orangeism is a strange business. In Ire-
land it is mostly drum-and-fife bands with
unlimited drunk; in Australia it links up
loyalty (to anything but the Common-
wealth) with all the choice elements of ad-
vanced Wowserism. The Orangeman reel-
ing home full of bad whisky and enthusiasm
in County Down or Antrim would hardly
recognise Brother Worrall as the right brand
of Paptist-baiter; but as long as the sec-
tarian business can be kept going in a
country like this, which has no use for it,
anti-Home Rule is a good enough cry when
anti-Mixed Bathing for the moment palls.
The satisfaction of Federal Ministers
over the present condition of Australian
defence is one disquieting fact in connection
with the business. Last week 17,000
paraded in Melbourne, and Prime Minister
Fisher, looking at the raw files as they
sauntered past, declared them equal tf- the
troops of any country. This, on the face of
it, is plain blither; and the man who can
persuade himself that our kid army Is all
that it should be is capable of holding the
view (1) that our mixed railway ""gauges
are all right; (2) that the quickest method
of getting to the Northern Territory is by
walking; (3) that speed is not an essential
of modern warfare, and (4) thayt*nothing
in particular is likely to happen ‘when an
enemy lands on Australian shores." If An-
drew Fisher doesn’t believe these*things he
acts as if he did believe them, and they are
quite in line with the thing-he-said about
that portion of the defence force which he
saw. ...
Part of John Bull’s army went out for an
airing the other day. To prevent it getting
lost, or bushed, or fogged, or bogged with
plunder, or otherwise incommoded, the War
Office thoughtfully provided the officers with
maps. According to these maps the country
was open fields, giving plenty of room for
Balaclava charges. In reality it was occu-
pied by a new suburban town of about 7000
people. All that was the matter was that
the maps were a few years out of date.
THE MISSING INGREDIENT.
The Minister for Home Affairs has promised to
submit to the House a list of suggested names for
the Federal capital.
KINK: “ This is the site, brother. The next
thing is the christening .”
AUSTRALIA: “ Christening? Where you going
to get the water from? ”
The Fatman’s press has
often been horrified at “the
inhumanity of the Labor
unions in denying the right
of the non-unionist to live.”
They haven’t, of course,
done anything of the sort;
they have merely denied
themselves the doubtful
pleasure of working with
the non-unionist. Now it
transpires that the exceed-
ingly Fat gas co. of Mel-
bourne does not take any
coal from the Browns, of
Newcastle, because the ship-
ping-coal combine won’t let
it; also, the Vic. Railway
Commissioners take no coal
from the same Browns be-
cause they (the Commis-
sioners) were told that if
they took any from the
Browns the combine
wouldn’t be suppliers at any price. When
a combine does this sort of thing it is “busi-
ness” ; when a labor union does the same
thing it is “inhumanity.”
Westralia, by knocking £lOOO off the vote
to be spent on Government House, has
struck the first serious blow against the ex-
pensive uselessness of State Governors.
The Labor party out of power has no use
for these ornamental persons, but the men
who take office in Labor Ministries quickly
weaken on the proposal to abolish them. In
Westralia the Scaddan Government has,
however, been defeated by its own sup-
porters at a time when there were not
enough Tories on the premises to help the
Labor Ministers through.
“George Bltiegum”:—
For N.S.W. to spend money sending a Minister to
London to help T. A. Coghlan float a loan is a
wasteful and ridiculous excess. The business can be
done by cable more easily and with less friction.
The fact is that one stockbroking firm of under-
writers, R. Nivison and Co., acts for India, Canada and
, the six Australian States; and the floating or con-
version of any of these loans remains with “Bobby”
Nivison. If terms are right and the market favor-
able, Nivison can - underwrite anything he undertakes.
If they are not, well, he won’t, and a whole team of
Cabinet Ministers could not persuade him to. _ All
such loans are gradually peddled by the underwriters,
for the public very rarely applies for the lot.
Considering that nearly all the row in the
N.S.W. Assembly has been staged by men
like Wood, Perry, Fitzpatrick and Levy, and
that their sole grievance has been a Speaker
who insists on order, the attempt to fasten
on to the Labor Government the “degrada-
tion of Parliament” is scarcely playing even
the' miserable Party game according to the
rules. When Mrs. Onslow addresses .Liberal
women, and tells them of the disgrace of
Parliament, she should in decency add that
her husband’s political friends are the worst
offenders, and that their own husbands’
language isn’t always fit for —well, say, Mrs.
Onslow’s hearing.
STONEWALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The stonewall which started in the House of Re-
presentatives, over the Estimates, on Wednesday
night, came to an end at four o’clock on Friday
afternoon.— Political news item.
The last suburban trains have gone. There are no
trams in any street."
Past dark and shuttered shops slow cabs roll wearily.
Cab horses' feet
Ring treble knells upon the stones, and heavy wheels
a chorus growl.
The city, like a brooding monk, dreams sombrely
in Night’s dark cowl.
The last, lone drunk, his crayfish gone, resigned and
sodden waits arrest;
Road mud upon his coat-tails dries, and crumbs and
beer-stains deck his vest.
The fretting world is stopped awhile. There comes
no clank of market carts
That roll before the haggard dawn with earth-cold
greens to early marts.
All, all is done. The planet rolls as silently as any
star;
But lighted lamps before the House show where
the Chronic Talkers are.
But what they do is neither work nor play. "Sou
could not class as sin
The endless fuss and noise they make their mad-
men’s victories to win.
’Tis something quite apart from Life, and yet is not
to Death allied,
That keeps them gabbling through the night while
flows and ebbs the careless tide.
The clock to them no warning gives that Earth will
yet of them be rid ;
They hear not through its heartless tick the clods
upon their coffin lid;
But, careless of the race of Time, they talk as if the
stars stood still
To hear their babble, and the sun was halted like a
squad at drill.
The unsolved problems Yesterday laid down at their
accursed door
Lie rotting—and To-morrow speeds towards them
with a hundred more!
The curse of Party Government holds them eternally
in thrall.
A Nation’s way is stopped; Fate only steps across
their mean stonewall.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


Xv
tSWSBSSSS^^SiSSSSSSS««SB^SSSf^^WSSSSSS^^^SSSS^BSSSS^Si!SS^^i
1
i^xj:*: : : : :;::::;:::%:::*:*:;::::::::::Xft%;:j^^
vrrry.• '•■•
•Xv.
• ..v.v • • • • •.■
xxixws
Lil''Q>M»ni^i7T7Trr7-|
111
LLI 1 1
THE LIPP PIANO is made tinder strict supervision
in one of the leading piano factories in the world.
Shilled artisans of proven ability in the piano maker’s
art alone are employed, and they have at their dis-
posal the cream of world’s materials. These masters
in piano building turn out an instrument perfect in
every detail, and by reason of its superb construction,
the LIPP PIANO will last you for a lifetime, giving
positive satisfaction. WE ARE SOLE AGENTS
FOR THE GENUINE LIPP PIANO, and we can
confidently recommend it to those requiring a thoroughly
reliable piano.
The Lipp Piano
won its way
because of real merit.
Genuine merit alone gained for the LIPP PIANO
the great reputation it so fully enjoys—won for it the
unstinted praise and admiration of the greatest
musicians and pianists of to-day.
Our large and well-appointed Show Rooms are open for your inspection at any
time. Please call in to-day and inspect the GLORIOUS LIPP PIANO.
Ask at the same time for particulars of our full guarantee and our easy terms
which make the purchase of a LIPP quite easy for you.
If unable to call, write for our Piano Catalogue and Price List —they are post free.
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
And at
NEWCASTLE, LISMORE,
BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA.
..... :~rj !
; I s
it
m
si
V : .
m
“An’ I’ve lefl-ma siller
inmabreehs!"
'tffcTS ON’s
N?IO
MAY »r-
-£D WITHIN
fdg
Nmmm
0
1
Hi
mt
m
:
7}
:
■
I il
mm
I mm. '
p
HY
s
f
Cameras & Photo Supplies
386 George St. Sydney
j9/ri/-jcfies m Ev£sf State .
&m/
A Christinas Gift That Will Please
A CAMERA.
Harringtons’ New Catalogue
has 150 of the Best Makes
Illustrated and Described.
IT IS FREE.
SEND NOW.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S only one BEST Biograph. AVe can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
F CHARLES FAWELL BATH HEYES,
Contractor, last heard of in Sydney, will
communicate with the undersigned, he will
hear of something to his advantage. Hamil-
ton, Wynne and Riddell, 421 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Aged Lady derived great Benefit from
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment
for Rheumatism.
The powerful, penetrating qualities of
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment act-
ing through the skin on the delicate nerves
and muscles was never more forcibly illus-
trated than in a letter from a lady describ-
ing the great benefit her aged mother had
received from its use, for Rheumatic Pains.
Miss A. Mantle, of Eastern Terrace, Queens-
town, Otago, N.Z., writes: —-
“I have pleasure in stating that my
mother (Mrs. Mantle) has received great
benefit from your very valuable Liniment for
Rheumatism, after trying many others, and
receiving more pain than benefit in the last
40 years. It is the only one that has really
done good, and she is now telling it to
everyone she meets. My mother has suffered
much for many years, being now 74 years of
age, and is in better health than I have seen
her for years, for which I have to give you
many thanks, and hope to see Comstock’s
Nerve and Bone Liniment continue in its
good work.”
To be obtained from all Chemists and
Stores, or will be sent post paid on receipt
of price, 2s. 6d. per bottle, by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney.*
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, Ist November, 1912.
NAVAL FORCES OF THE COM-
MONWEALTH.
Appointment of Assistant Overseer
(temporary), to supervise Dredger
Construction.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified and desirous of ap-
pointment as Assistant Overseer (tempor-
ary) to supervise dredger construction for a
period of not less than twelve months.
Salary will be based upon applicants’ ex-
perience and credentials, but will not exceed
£3OO per annum.
Applicants must have had practical ex-
perience in the construction of dredgers.
Full particulars regarding the above ap-
pointment may be obtained on application
to the Navy Office, Melbourne, and at the
Naval Staff Offices, Sydney, Brisbane,
Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Applications must reach the Naval Secre-
tary, Navy Office, Melbourne, not later than
25th November, 1912.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary, Department of Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 12th November, 1912.
Appointment of Assistant Examiners of
Stores and Equipment, Grade 11, at
Headquarters, Melbourne.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for and desirous of ap-
pointment as Assistant Examiners, Grade
11, for soft goods, military uniforms, includ-
ing hats, caps, badges, etc. (four vacancies).
Salary, £156 per annum.
Application forms and full particulars
may be obtained on application to the Secre-
tary, Department of Defence, Melbourne, or
, to the Commandant, Military District Head-
quarters, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
Applications must reach the Secretary,
Department of Defence, Melbourne, not later
than 14th December, 1912.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
w
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
yji IV
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Looking Backward” : In 1870, Craig, the
owner Of Nimblefoot, a rank outsider for the Mel-
bourne Cup, dreamt that he saw the horse win, the
jockey having a black crepe band on his arm. He
instructed an agent to back Nimblefoot to win
£lO,OOO. Nimblefoot won. Craig died on the same
day, knowing nothing of his victory. Among the
minor bets made bv Craig was one with Slack, a well-
known bookie, who laid him £lOOO to eight nobblers of
brandy against a double with Crovdon, who was
favorite for an Oaks Day race. Croydon won, and
Slack paid the debt to Craig’s widow. Nimblefoot’s
victory in the Cup was the closest on record. He beat
Lapdog by a nose. There are turfites living to-day
to whom Craig related his dream, though he kept his
big bet dark. ♦ * *
Almissa, who won the Moonee Valley and
Williamstown Cups, is a good advt. for the Australian
climate. In England he was a broken-winded horse
—a “roarer,” and a bad one at that. The voyage
out improved him, and a year or two completed the
cure. Almissa these times appears to be longer
winded than the average gee. He breathed himself
into fifth place for the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
John “Baron,” ruminating over Duke
Foote’s victory in last year’s Williamstown Cup
race, remarked to a pressman that he could never
understand how his horse had been beaten for the
Melbourne Cup six days previously. Well, the handi-
cappers, who saw the horse win the Williamstown
Cup, after failing badly in the two miles race,
classed him as a non-stayer, seemingly. Anyway,
last year he was given 7st. 71b. for the Melbourne
Cup, and they did not add to his weight this year,
notwithstanding his win at Williamstown (11 fur-
longs). Mr. “Baron” Brown talks of Melbourne
Cups as though they are bound to be within the
compass of any horse that runs brilliantly over a
mile and a half. As yet, there has been no proof
that Duke Foote can stay the extra half-mile. He
looked likely to do it on his Metropolitan perform-
ance ; but lie isn’t the first Metropolitan winner that
has been afterwards beaten by the runner-up in a
longer race.
* * * *
Whereas Duke Foote, all going well with
him, will be raced again in the autumn, the chances
are that Uncle Sam will be out of training for nine
months or so. There’s a lot of room for improve-
ment in the big son of United States, if his nervous
disposition will give him a chance to settle down
into a sedate five-year-old. For all his resolute
manner of finishing a race, Uncle Sam is an easily
disconcerted animal. A bump puts him into diffi-
culties and throws him into a sweat. A very heavy
bump knocks him over, almost, for he has no
notion of righting himself. In the Caulfield Cup,
where he was ridden wide, Uncle escaped with one
moderate bump. In the Melbourne Cup he was
bumped a lot in the first half of the race, and in
the C. B. Fisher Plate he got worse still, and was
nearly down.
* » * *
“Pick”: Newspaper reports of the flutter
for the Melbourne Cup say that Piastre was hurried
along in front “without a whip,” and that among the
less speedy gee-gees “whips flew like flails.” In a
subsequent interview a favorite’s rider is alleged to
have owned up that he “rode with the whip, but
nothing would stir him.” In other words, no amount
of savagery vented upon the exhausted brute could
make him win against fleeter opponents. The read-
ing made me sad. Also, it made me tired when I
remembered that at Sydney the previous week a carter
was fined £3 and costs for working a horse with a
sore shoulder. If racing clubs were civilised, or
even if they had half the love for the horse that
they pretend to have, they would everlastingly bar
the whip from the course.
* * * *
Eudorus was the urduckiest of the im-
ported gees (bar Eye-glass, now thoroughly Aus-
tralianised) that ran at the Spring meetings. Hal-
lowmas won a couple of races at Randwick and a
couple of thousand pounds for his second in the Mel-
bourne Cup. Almissa won a pair of Cups. Sand-
bath got home once. But Eudorus, though often near
a victory, was never near enough. This aged im-
portation seemed to have a great chance for the
Williamstown Cup after running Cider to a head in
the scramble for the C. B. Fisher Plate; but it
transpired that he cracked a heel whilst chasing
Cider, which accounted for his absence from the
Williamstown event. Eudorus was improving all the
time at Caulfield and Flemington meetings, and if
he stands up to his work he should win a good race
presently.
* * * *
News comes that Carbine has retired from
the stud, having reached his 28th year. He will still
have his home at Welbeck Abbey, where his Grace
of Portland leads the simple life on rare occasions.
* * * *
The Flemington Stewards’ leniency in the
Shanahan case was followed by unsatisfactory riding
at Caulfield a week later, when in the Armadale Cup
C. Andrews, on Magas, crowded Sampson, on Mousme,
out of first or second place in the run home. This
time the stewards pushed the offending moke out
among the “also rans.” Mousme took second place
and its gilt. Then the stewards considered Andrews,
and that crack light-weight found the tariff had
risen since Flemington. He got “three months,”
and will, therefore, not be available for further en-
gagements till the Y.A.T.C. Autumn Meeting. That’s
the way to meet that sort of thing. Keep trebling
the penalties. Like other people, a jockey is amen-
able to the reasoning of his money-bags. #
The Tote again! Last week, at Belmont
Park, Westralia, Misfire, winner of the last race,
paid £lO6 13s. for a 10s. ticket. The best the
bookmakers were offering was £2O to one.
* * * *
AtLismore (N.S.W.) last week the jockeys
went on strike, but were persuaded by the stipendiary
steward to go on and leave their grievances to be
adjusted later. The trouble was that under the old
scale they received £3 for a winning mount and
£1 for a losing ride. The new scale gives them
10s. all round, and 5 per cent, of the stakes for
winning. As the average country race is under £3O,
it is small wonder they struck. The wonder is they
didn’t kick with both feet.
* * * *
Cue (W.A.) put up a record of a sort at
its recent race meeting. In the amateur-rider event,
all the jockeys declared 4st. overweight!
Talking of stipendiary stewards and their
shortcomings, it is argued by onlookers who saw
most of the game that Cider was bumped out of a
victory in the V.R.C. Derby. The plucky little gee
came back to scale with one shoulder badly barked
where the rails had rubbed, and had Agar Wynne
lodged a protest the wound would have been pretty
strong evidence of interference. But the lawyer took
his grievance philosophically and declined to squeak.
There was never a more stirring boxing
match in the world than the one between Herbert
McCoy and Hock Keys, at the Stadium, on Saturday
night! As long as the Mclntosh can stage “fights”
like that, men will call him blessed, and when he has
gone they will engrave tablets of brass to his memory.
The feature of the fight was the series of wild rallies
in which Keys cut loose, and with amazing energy
slapped and banged and bashed and uppercut and
walloped and jabbed McCoy, till that distracted per-
son’s face became a grinning mask of dazed and
frightened humanity. It was terrific ; nothing ap-
proaching it has ever been seen in the Stadium before.
McCoy fought back desperately, but was out-punched
and bewildered, and would have been outed but for
Keys’s inability to land a really heavy blow. On
the other hand, the plucky, clever Melbourne boxer
over and over again disconcerted Keys’s splendid
attacks. He paid much attention to the Sydney
boxer’s body, but had no hope of making any im-
pression there —Keys covered it with his glove, fore-
arms and elbows. His iaw was also invulnerable —•
he guarded it beautifully, although in doing so he
left his cheek undefended, and McCoy managed to
lay it open. If Keys could have jambed his wallops
home , with the same steam as McCoy, then _ McCoy
had gone to bed in ribbons. Keys’s attack failed for
sheer lack of hitting power ; but he was the attacking
party all the time ; and although his attack failed to
out McCoy, or even mark him, he scored the points
all the same. In this case this writer is a voice cry-
ing in the wilderness; but the truth is mighty and
must get out. In his opinion Keys won the fight,
though McCoy got the verdict. Of course, it all
depends on how one judges points in a boxing match.
It is, however, obvious that a man can be only cer-
tain of winning at the Stadium by knocking the other
fellow right out. Keys couldn’t do it because he
hadn’t the strength, and McCov couldn’t do it because
ho hadn’t the skill. Yet McCoy got the verdict.
The scribe relieves his feelings by remarking “Rab-
bits !”
* * * *
Bing-side bawler to Hock Keys on Satur-
day night: “ ’lt ’im in the belly. Hock; ’e don’ like
’em there!” It was a high, shrill voice. Back came
the answer in a deep bass: “Who th’ ’ell does?” Fur-
ther altercation was drowned by a mighty smack, as
Keys sprang in and did it. The fairest and most
warlike picture in the Australian ring is the coming
of McCov from his corner, after a rest, to take his
gruel. The worse the precedmg _ round, the fairer
and more bravely he comes. He is a game fighter.
» * * *
Johnson’s ( life these days seems to consist
of being run ' in on some fresh charge and being
promptly bailed out by his mother and others. One
admirer who wished to go bail for him inadvertently
represented that the property of a relative was his
own; so, while Johnson is at large, his would-be
bondsman is doing time for making a false declara-
tion. A nigger “down South.” who had been playing
similar pranks was riddled last week, and Johnson
is wondering, no doubt, what sort of thanksgiving he
ought to render his Obi, or Ju-Ju, or Joss, that he
wasn’t down South when his particular storm blew
suddenlv out of the peaceful sky.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The recent fight between
Paul Til and Frank O’Grady, in this town, was dead
against all The Bulletin has said lately about the
French method being pretty but ineffective. Til was
ineffective all right, but that was just because
O’Gradv was pretty. Til appeared to have a contract
to shift huge" chunks of atmosphere anywhere round
the other man’s head; and he worked hard at it.
Meanwhile. O’Grady worked hard at him. It was a
most gentlemanly affair, with smiles and hand-
shakes, and each man helping the other up when
necessary ; but this does not mean that it wasn’t a
good, willing go. It went the whole 20 rounds, and
O’Grady won comfortably on points. He did it with
his head and his' feet—-particularly the feet.
The news that Hugbie Mebegan, Austra-
lian light-weight champion, is to box Freddy Welsh,
light-weight champion of England, for a purse of
£lOOO, at London National Sporting Club, is an
amazing item. The National Sporting Club is about
the most parsimonious of promoters; and it is almost
a certainty that this wild extravagance will cause
somebody connected with the club to take a blue fit.
In addition to the £lOOO put up by the reckless
club, there is to be a side wager of £lOOO. This
will be easily Mehegan’s star stunt to date; and the
fact that he "should put it up at the National Sport-
ing Club shows that the impossible is not always
unachievable.
* * * *
Healy and Boardman have got back to
Australia after a string of swimming successes in
Europe. One or other won international scratch
races in England, Scotland, Ireland, France, Bel-
gium and Italy. Healy tells interviewers that the
lengthy Kanamouki from Hawaii seems to owe his
terrific turn of speed over a short distance to un-
usually big feet, which he “manipulates like pro-
pellers, and stirs the water behind in much the same
way as a steamer fitted with twin screws.” Healy
is confident that Australian swimmers would do
better at the Olympic games if Europe were not so
keen on fresh water. With its lack of buoyancy, the
Australian crawl is done after about 200 metres,
and then the old trudgeon-stroke holds sway.
“Snell” : “They may be great people, these
Yanks,” is the conclusion to a recent Bulletin par.
that might have been written by Jove; “but they
are precious poor sportsmen.” On this point the
opinion of W. Murray, the Vic. champion ped. just
back from Olympia, via Stockholm, should have some
value. He went to the games strongly prejudiced
against the Yanks; he came away convinced that
there is only one greater bogey than the allegations
against American sportsmanship, and that is the
tradition about British fair play. The Americans, he
says, are keen, enthusiastic, and well organised.
They are in to win, but there was not a dirty trait
in any feature of their work in the Olympic games.
All the unsportsmanlike conduct before, during and
after the international tournaments was English, bar-
ring one little guttural growling from Australians.
If Britishers did not so persistently befoul the other
fellow, their own fairness might appear to be in
need of sand soap.
* * * *
The long-drawn-out match between N.S.W.
Slid Westralian cricket teams came to its much-
deferred end on Monday, when Ma won by 155 runs.
Westralia started well, hitting up 318 to Ma’s 305.
Ma then got "oing again, and, with eight wickets
down for 375, declared the innings closed. This left
Westralia with 363 between it and victory; and as
the team accumulated only 207, it lost by the above-
mentioned 155. #
The voice of one of the Westralian cricket-
ers was heard complaining in Sydney’s marble halls
that the team had been badly slighted and meanly
handled. It had expected to be taken round and
given a good time, whereas it had been treated
worse than the Canadian cadets. When teams went
to the West, they fed ’em up, took ’em round,
tickled their ears and filled their pockets with
smokes, he hinted. At time of writing no reply had
been made. If one ever is made it will be to the
effect that the N.S.W. Cricket Assoc, used to do
that sort of thing also, with the result that the
money intended to foster cricket was spent in riotous
living. Experience of many teams has taught the
Sydney authorities that it is best to take cricket
seriously. Men come here to play cricket —not to
have their stomachs knocked for six with goldtop,
pate de foie-gras and other wild batsmen. And if
cricket, like love, isn’t enough, they should stay at
home.
* * * *
W. P. McElhone’s idea of giving Victor
Trumper a benefit received a sudden bump, ap-
parently ; and that vigorous and war-like personage
is going about wearing a hurt expression. For some
reason or another, “Fighting Mac” had set his
heart on Trumper having that benefit, probably to
demonstrate (1) that the fierce battle he waged
against the Sorry Six was not tinged with personal
feeling; and (2) that in spite of all differences he
has a genuine admiration for the once-mighty bats-
man. What went wrong is a mystery ; but the bene-
fit is alleged to be off. It’s safe to bet that the
old rancor between the ones who were taken and
the others who were left is at the bottom of it.
Either the Sorry Six wouldn’t play the team to save
its life, let alone to give Victor T. a purse, or the
team said it would sooner use the bat on the Sorry
Six than on the ball.
* * * *
If ever there was a batsman’s day it was
Saturday in Sydney. Yet not a single century
appeared in the whole metropolis. It was the ball
that did the coruscating. Hordern, of North Syd-
ney, smashed up no less than nine Gordon wickets
for 53, five of them clean bowled; Tierney, of
Middle Harbor, took three of Sydney’s for 16 ; Stack,
of University, took four of Central Cumberland’s
for 10; Dupain, of Burwood, five of Bal-
main’s for 35; Randell, of Middle Harbor,
six for 41, to the woe of Sydney. The high-
est score of the day was the 86 of Hodgkin-
son, of Sydney. Poidevin, of North Sydney, carric 1
his bat for 70; Lowe, of Middle Harbor, smacked
73. Below these were only mediocrity and diluted
failure. It was the end of the fourth round, and
North Sydney dished Gordon by 123 runs. Univer-
sity made a holy show of Central Cumberland by an
innings and 142 runs.. K Uni. smacked 250, and Cen-
tral Cumberland replied with only 86 and 21. Great
was the rout thereof. Waverley overthrew Redfern
by seven wickets and two runs; Petersham climbed
out on top of Glebe with 59 to spare on the first
innings; Balmain gave Burwood a decisive dishing,
153 on the first innings; and Sydney slammed
Middle Harbor with 65 to spare on the first effort.
Owing to the heavy downpour on Friday
Melbourne’s Saturday cricket consisted of a solemn
procession of batsmen to and from the pitches. Here
and there a lusty youth, with a quick eye and hand,
put up a respectable score, but the bowlers had the
thick end of the stick, though few of them handled
it deftly. Of the smiters, Owen made 72 for Roy,
Ryder 45 for ’Wood, and old, reliable Peter McAlis-
ter 81 for East. Of the trundlers, Anderson, of
’Varsity, took three for 26, and Morsehead and
McLean, of Carlton, six for 47 and three for 22 re-
spectively. The others failed to grasp the nettle of
opportunity by the forelock. Of the 10 teams play-
ing, onlv South and Northcote failed to shape de-
cently, and what will happen to them depends
mainly on next Saturday’s weather. Scores: Cote,
72 v. Carlton’s 86 for five wickets; South, 116 for
nine wickets (declared) v. University’s 44 for three;
’Roy, 185 for six (declared) v. St. Hilda, 30; East,
204 for three v. North, and ’Wood 132 for six (de-
clared) v. Essendon 27 for nine wickets.
* * * *
Consider the deadliness of this season’s
cricket-ball, as delivered by the subtle wizardry of
H. V. Hordern. That professor of the occult has
bowled for North Svdney in three of the four matches
played to date, and this is the way of it: Eight for
132 • nine for 80 ; 14 for 69 =3l for 281 ; average,
906 No less than 14 of his victims have been
clean bowled, and of the rest, such as were not
caught off pussy strokes, forced on them by the little
red jeering devil in the leather, were lured into
picturesque attitudes in front of the sticks with dis-
astrous results. North Sydney, in consequence, heads
the competition list with nine points; last year s
premier club (University) and Waverley follow.
Next Saturday University and North_ Sydney _ meet,
and wide as the metropolis is the interest in the
clash of the black art of Hordern and the mighty
smiting of Barbour, Willcocks, Tozer, McElhone and
Co. Uni. should also have the services of Roy Min-
nett, just returned in the pink of condition. Can
the wizard hold his one-magian team up against that
crowd? # #
“Sport and Pastime in Australia,” by Gor-
don Inglis, published by Methuen and Co., of London
(from George Robertson and Co.), is a book that no
good Australian should be without. It is beautifully
printed, charmingly illustrated; and (best of all)
brightly written. It is excellently indexed, too, and
thereby establishes its place as a valuable sporting
reference book. Also, it is up to date tells, for
example, how in 1912 Savonara became a Sydney
yacht, and that Mr. Hordern’s Kangaroo is the cham-
pion motor-boat of the continent. Another book of
the same series is “The Complete Swimmer,” by
Frank Sachs. It deals exhaustively with its subject,
but is more instructive than historical, although very
complete yarns are given about some mighty am-
phibians. #
Tasmanian cyclist A. F. Grenda is on the
war-path in the United States, and has announced
his intention of representing the Kangaroo in the
next N.Y. six days’ race, with, probably, E. A. Pye
for a team mate. After that he will pass over to
gay Paris for a couple of months, and then hie back
to'the U.S.A. after the elusive dollar. So, presum-
ably, one will have to write him down as “ex-
Australian” after this. One of the interesting fix-
tures at the meeting at Newark, at which Grenda
has been cutting a very respectable figure, was a
race between the world’s professional champion, F.
L. Kramer, and the world’s amateur boss, Donald
McDougall. The distance was half a mile, and the
race limited to three heats. Kramer won the first
two the first by a length, the second by half a
wheel; and both are said to have been done in rather
slow time. There’s too much finesse about the
modern sprint cycle race. They ought to be set
going after a pacer, and made to take a flying
start when the judge thinks they are really in full
flight. # # # #
The N. S. Wales team of bowlers which
has been roaming through Britannia’s realm is now
spreading itself over the Ma State. It seems to have
been an amazing team. Among other things, it
a cted as an immigration agent, and turned the faces
0 f 50 waitresses this way. They were not too lucky
(the bowlers, not the girls) in their British cam-
paign from a playing point of view, but they kept
up Australia’s name as good, sports. There is a
whisper that the trip cost altogether £21,000.
What a time they must have had!
. * * *
The Australian bowlers are getting ready
for a big kick-up at Melbourne next month. Each
State is to send a team to Willie Watt’s capital,
and when they are all gathered together a regular
trundling Armageddon will transpire, in which
champions will encounter champions in five rounds
of matches The grand finale will be a £2O single
and a £4 0 rink; and, after that, wassail and more
wassail. Bowlers are great on wassail.
* * * *
The. newest athletic bird swooping on Aus
traha is a full-feathered Amurkan baseball team
with a crowd of barrackers, hangers-on and tripper
m its wake. The rabble is due in the early pari
of December, and if it sticks to the programme will
rage through this devoted land for a period of three
mon #
- . , Tl
fcydney swimmer A. \V. Barry is early
on the warpath, and the records are already in sight,
A week ago he streaked through 110 yards of sun-
light and green liquid in 64 l-ssec.—just on the
verge of a world’s record. On Saturday last he glode
through 66 yards of the hydrosphere in 34 l-ssec.,
which, though it doesn’t count as a record, is the
fastest time for the distance in Australia. Barry
is a hefty lad of 20.


BE A GOOD BOXER-
A Man of Courage and Skill.
m
i
i
1
i
1
i
1
i
I
1
1
I
1
I
i
i
l
I
i
1
1
I
1
i
i
1
1
i
1
1
i
1
I
1
1
A knowledge of Boxing is no load to carry.
But a WANT of the knowledge is likely to
turn out a very heavy load one day. Learn-
ing to be a skilful Boxer is fine sport. There’s
no other pastime so interesting—none so
healthful —none so useful. You can readily
become proficient in all the most serviceable
hits and stops. And, what is more, you can
learn in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
POST
My methods are as thorough as is possible
—everything is as plain as plain can be.
The instruction is simple and efficient. It
will teach you to be a hard-hitting Boxer,
with an excellent defence. You will be
taught how to compel your adversary to
leave openings. You’ll cultivate the habit of
keeping yourself “covered” at all times.
Here is what one pupil reported:—
I had a spar with a rhap here the other night. He lost his head-piece, and went for
me like a good one. It was good practice for me while it lasted, but that was not for long.
—J. 0., Tenterfield, N.S.W.”
jfou re missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t you better write for further particulars as regards
.ees, etc. Ask for a copy of my interesting Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly send
threepence in stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
114 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
p? OBERT GRAYSON (otherwise Frederick Wilson
, , or Gregory), formerly of Manchester, England,
and last heard of in Sydney about 10 years ago, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, communicate with
Executor,” c/o Gordon and Gotch, Sydney. Some-
thing to his advantage.
GEORGE KENNY, late of
* Darriville, and son of George Kenny,
Solicitor, Dublin, last heard of in Walhalla,
write brother John, Leongatha, Victoria.
ELSWORTH, HARRY A.
LATE of Brisbane, and formerly of Bal-
larat. Left Brisbane 1910. Heard of
at Bourke (N.S.W.) December, 1911. Sup-
posed to be at Roma or Charlesville districts
with bore contractor early 1912. Write at
once. MOST IMPORTANT. Or anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communi-
cate with FRED ELSWORTH, c/o Burton
and Co., Ltd., Auctioneers, Toowoomba
( Q- ) •
BROWN. —Information is required as to
GEORGE KENNY BROWN, who
formerly lived at the Crescent, Clontarf,
Dublin, Ireland, was afterwards in the Cape
Mounted Police, and later in Australia.
Reply to ARTHUR GEORGE JOYCE,
Solicitor, 121 Stephens Green W., Dublin,
Ireland.
ESTATE OF SARAH HOGAN, Deceased.
TV] OTICE is hereby given to JOHN
' ™ HOGAN the husband of SARAH
HOGAN who died at the Glebe on the 21st
April, 1900, that he must come in and prove
his identity before the undersigned within
three months from date hereof otherwise an
application will be made to the Court for an
order declaring that the said John Hogan
shall be presumed to have pre-deceased the
said deceased and to distribute her Estate
amongst her next of kin.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates,
Queen’s Square, Sydney.
11th November, 1912.
Makel
your
own
Cigarette
It is
twice
AC
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BBST and PWBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. 2 55* George Sf Sydney
Another Triumph for
“SheirSpirit
in Automobile Club Hill-Climbing Test*
held at National Park,
October 19, 1912.
RESULT:
CLASS “A”—
Ist on “SHELL.”
3rd on “SHELL.”
CLASS “B”
Ist on “SHELL.”
2nd on “SHELL.”
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR THUMPER & DODCE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
the “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
VictorTrumper& Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsand Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards, Wicket-keeping Caunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be p jsted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
d
gfd
How to Train Animals
A Yaluable Book “by an Experienced
Aninjal Trainer. Tails how to teach your
Horse to follow you, stand without hold-
ing, sit up, lie down, stand erect, waits,
Ac.; your Dog to leap, walk erect, dance,
skip rope, sit up. lie down, stand on his
head, Ac. It also describes the training cf
elephants, lions, tigers, monkeys,mice and
many other animals and birds of all kinds.
Numerous illustrations. Only EIGHT
PENCE, posted anywhere. TH E UN lON
CO., 299 Elizabeth Street., Melbourne
gfd
THE REMEDY
for Piles must not be a palliative, but an effective curing agent that
will clear the trouble absolutely and entirely from the system by natural
methods.
Such a remedy is Murphy’s Pile Pills, which act as a healing balm to
the irritated membranes, give new life to the deadened blood vessels,
cleanse the system of all impurities, and cause the ulcerous condition to
pass away. The immediate result of their use is to relieve congestion,,
diminish swelling, and banish the awful sense of itching.
Murphy’s Pile Pills are sold everywhere at 3/- per box, post free. Iff
unobtainable locally, order direct from the Sole Proprietors: ANDREW
MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
nr
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
I
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
rsm
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
COMFORTABLE HIGH-GRADE
w SHOES FOR MEN !
Rigney Shoes are made from the most care-
fully selected leather over anatomical lasts,
which provide a perfect fit all over, with-
out any pinching—comfort for the toes, com-
fort everywhere.
And Rigney Shoes are as high grade and
stylish as they are comfortable.
The Shoe illustrated is a Rigney Special—an
exact reproduction of the up-to-date, made-
to-order styles; can be supplied in all
leathers —black or tan.
Price 18.6 to 25,
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for a Copy of our Catalogue.
1
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Hxclusive High=Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DUN LOP
TENNIS BALLS
p
swe
■
m
•fIV'.I
tSS’ 'u ''C^
. iwia
FOR
QUALITY
&
PRICE
Obtainable
AH
Stores
“Hamer” : The linotyper who was rescued
from the fire which occurred at the offices
of the Australian Christian World
(Sydney) came from Victoria, where he
liad been badly burned in a fire which de-
stroyed his home and killed his grand-
mother. Some brands of accidents seem to
pursue certain people. No doubt the man
who meets with tram accidents may merely
have a talent for falling off those jugger-
nauts, or getting in front of them; but in
nearly every railway, shipping or mining
. r. a . . . ...
disaster, fire, flood or explosion, it is re-
corded that several of the victims or the
survivors had been in some or several similar
accidents. It seems as if a man who once
gets blown up T -'tkes a habit of it. Thus
you may remember that one of the passen-
gers on the Elingamit.e had been at sea only
three times, and had been in three wrecks,
I myself know of one Sydney-sider who is
the boat swamps, or the stoke-hole falls on
him—or something. There are, of course,
all-round men in the accident line—people
eat poisoned fish one day, and fall
down stairs the next; but usually you 11
fi nc ] t b e man w h o starts in any particular
line of accident sticks to it.


]
BEST
NATURAL
jv
APERIENT
WATER
g
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fdg
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD.,* LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
fd
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 12th November, 1912.
MURRUMBIDGEE IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT.
YANCO LAND DISTRICT.
138 FARMS (YANCO, No. 1)
WILL BECOME AVAILABLE 25th NOVEMBER, 1912.
89 FARMS (MIRROOL, No. 1)
WILL BECOME AVAILABLE, 9th DECEMBER, 1912.
CONFLICTING APPLICATIONS lodged for the 138 FARMS, from 25th to 30th
NOVEMBER, will be treated as simultaneous, and those for the 89 FARMS,
lodged from 9th to 14th DECEMBER, 1912, will be treated as simultaneous.
Full particulars published in Government Gazettes of 30th October and 13th
NOVEMBER, 1912. Lithographs, application forms, etc., may be obtained at the
Immigration and Tourist Bureau, Sydney; Information Bureau, Lands Department,
Sydney; and the Crown Land Agent of Yanco, at Leeton, or any Crown Land Agent
throughout the State. ARTHUR J. HARE,
5.E.6. Under Secretary.
SpSS?sm™ r “TURF MEN and MEMORIES ■ for 25 Years. **
CAREERS OF POPULAR JOCKEYS, OWNERS AND TRAINERS.
INTERESTING STORIES AND ANECDOTES. HOW WINNERS ARE MADE.
FIGHTS AGAINST LONG ODDS. CONTAINS PLATES OF CUP WINNERS, ETC.
Price 6d. Now Ready. Just What is Wanted. 200 Pages. Price 6d.
Unlike anything hitherto published. All Lovers of Sport Should Read It.
6cl. Obtainable at all News Agencies and Bookstalls. od.
Or Posted from the Office of “The Herald” and “Weekly Times”
Limited, 162 Flinders Street, Melbourne, for in Stamps.
<»
\3A
o
%
Sm
'W§
m.
m
v
¥-*
CP
0
*£ P
ts>
£
(0
%
.
o
off
■
fd
U
iO4
<!, '
.
S t/?
r x
rxa
si
AV
j
.
//
as
e
“Miles”: Re motor cyclists as an armed
force. An able article by “Critical” in the
Military Journal deals with the matter
and disposes of it in this way: “Their only
claim to usefulness is their mobility, which
they don’t possess, because it is impossible
to move along a road at 15 or 20 miles an
hour without scouting to front and flanks
when in contact with the enemy, and this
requires a network of good roads to allow
touch to be maintained.” It is a fair sum-
mary of the case. Cyclists are tied to roads
and have no show with troops not tied to
roads. Suppose the head of the cyclist force
to be attacked. The leading half would ex-
tend and leave their cycles to be wheeled by
the rear half over any sort of country the
occasion furnished. Think of the condition
of men wheeling two motor-cycles about
after a firing line, dodging from cover to
cover. If ambushed on a road, the head of
the column would probably be wiped out
before the rear half (two miles behind
nearly) knew what the disthrbance was
about. Then think of a body of cyclists in
a retreat —the rush for bikes, the confusion,
delay and inevitable disorganisation. Of
course no one disputes their value in the
Signal service; but for general purposes
they are as valueless as the officers who
discarded them decided that they were in
the S’Afric-an unpleasantness.
“Harrison O.”: A fresh attempt is to be
made to wax the crimson thread of kinship
by endeavoring to arrange for a uniform
pronunciation of the tongue that Marie
Corelli speaks. An Imperial Conference of
teachers held recently in the F“g was filled
with horror and dismay at the lack of uni-
formity. So the League of Empire (God
bless it!) has decided to establish a .central
bureau for the interchange of teachers from
all parts of the Empire. Interesting results
are expected from this brilliant scheme. For
one thing, Australian teachers who have
spent a year at a school in Yorkshire or the
Isle of Man will, when they return, be much
in demand at the houses of the Best People
—and even of merely Business People. I
shall take some lessons in “conversation”
myself. Recently I had to interview a
couple of more or less distinguished visitors
to these parts, one a Russian and the other
an Englishman. The vile English of the
Russian was quite intelligible to one who
has all his life been used to hearing the lan-
guage spoken incorrectly; but the cultured
English of the Englishman was almost illeg-
ible, even when examined through a mag-
nifying glass. I dared not use more than
about a quarter of my notes lest I should
report him as expressing himself against
the Maternity Bonus when, as a matter of
fact, he had merely observed that Collins-
street was the finest thoroughfare in the
world, only it was a pity Australian girls
had such large feet. Furthermore, I have
noted that whereas our courts generally
manage to get along without an interpreter
when the accused is a Chow, they are fre-
quently absolutely befogged when the man
in the dock is a newly-arrived immigrant.
This, of course, is because our uncultivated
colonial ears cannot understand correct
English when they hear it. Having regard
to these facts, I call for three cheers for the
League of Empire.
There is joy on the Northern (N.S.W.)
Rivers over the shindy between two or three
doctors at Casino, on the Richmond, and the
local hospital committee. The medicoes
kicked off by advertising in the Express -
To give our old patients of the benefit societies
an opportunity of retaining us as formerly, we are
ready to prepare lists on a private contract, which
can be arranged by calling on any one of us.
Quarter to commence at any time.
Then the Casino un-Friendly Societies blew
into print with this gust:—•
To give our old doctors an opportunity of living,
we are ready to allow them Bd. per week as assistants
to Dr. Philip De Luca, the new lodge doctor. Child-
ishness not considered. Engagement to commence
at any time.
After that the air was full of language that
looked like chain lightning.
“Scotia” holds out hope for Tasmania: —
If a recent report, that “true salmon” have been
taken in Tasmanian rivers this season, is right, the
fortune at that wilting little island is made. It will
get rich quickly, or, at any rate, parts of it .will,
uespice its Upper House, its dreadful legislators, and
its own Toryism and stupidity. The salmon, the
mighty sporting fish which leaves the sea and climbs
up fresh-water rivers during the summer months,
brings wealth wherever it goes_, nowadays. The ease
of the Mandal River, near Christiansand, in Norway,
is one among many that have come under the writer’s
notice. Fifteen years ago the banks of the Mandal
were inhabited by stone-broke farmers. The town at
the mouth of the stream was quite dead, except for
a little shipping and timber business. Then some
London sporting estate agents discovered that the
salmon fishing was good thereabouts. They leased
the whole river, from the mouth to the fosse, or
waterfall, beyond which the fish couldn’t pass. The
farmers got the most generous terms for the fishing
rights on their properties. It was only stipulated
that they shouldn’t fish for salmon themselves, and
to that bargain they most honorably adhered. They
put their rods, night-lines, etc., aside, and, when-
ever they wanted a salmon thereafter, they got it
by means of dynamite. This, however, by the way.
Wealthy tourists, with retinues of servants, began to
arrive. They thought nothing of paying from five
to 10 guineas a week for the use of a sizeable farm-
house. Also, they bought unlimited supplies of
produce, and worried little about the price. The
stores and hotels started to look up ; and Mandal is
now affluent. There are millions of tourists’ sover-
eigns for Tasmania if it is really able to provide
salmon in fishable rivers. What with its superb
climate, its beauty, and the fact that salmon, if they
do it all there, should do amazingly well, the little
place ought to allure anglers from all over the
world. Attempts to acclimatise salmon in the Com-
monwealth have failed, not because there are no
rivers big enough or cold enough for them, but
because there is, apparently, no deep-sea resort
handy where they may recuperate and get back their
color and condition. (The salmon is, of course, a
sea fish pure and simple. It only comes to the
rivers for breeding purposes.) Millions of fry have
been liberated in Australia at various times. They
did well till instinct led them to the oc“an. After
that they were never seen again. If Tassy has a
marine hospital or rest-cure establishment for salmon
more or less at its gates, it will be of more value to
the island than several gold mines.
“H.”: Apropos the mystery of what a
Sydney man should do with his used tram-
ticket, seeing that the city authorities won’t
let him throw it in the street. His miseries
are nothing compared with the conductor’s,
The other day as I left the car I gave in
my penny. The official tore off a ticket,
“I don’t want it!” I said. “Say,” he
gasped, “see me through. If I throw it in
the street I’ll be lumbered, an’ the car held
up—he’s got his eye on me” (pointing to an
fjeriy awl khaki).
c kuck it on the floor of the car I’ll he ae-
cused by the pimp in' the smoking compart-
ment of putting it there to pick up again as
soon as he s off the car. Take it, for
ss . e • took it, and put it with
*99 others in my coat pocket.


jjjjjj
: : ; v :■/
Bffi
mm
■i
m
U
ff
■ym
u
**B3
m
m
-fn_
7S
m
\
m
m
-iU
0
„• ,A
■;§m .in.—■■ .^ommm
mm mr m L-iIM-M -f—- —-1
r 1
11
# .
Mi
The Home of the
Country Visitor.
THE HOTEL ARCADIA has been called “Th(
Home of the Country Visitor” by reason of its
comfort and convenience to the many sights of tht
City.
Right in the City s heart in Pitt Street, between Ivins
and Market Streets, it presents an imposing appear-
ance. Seven floors—lso Bedrooms, Drawing and Re-
ception Rooms, Commodious Dining Rooms, airy bal-
conies, Electric Light and Hot Water day and night,
modern Sanitary Conveniences, beautiful furnishings.
per week
8/-
tariff.
Double Rooms, full board, two guests. . From £5 per week
Single Rooms, full board, one guest
T . . From £2/10/-
Inclusive terms, by the day
Double Room and Breakfast, two guests—
, , ~ From £3/6/-
Bouble Room and Breakfast, two guests. . .10/-
Single Room and Breakfast, one guest. . . 33/-
Single Room and Breakfas one guest 5/.
Breakfast, 1/6; Luncheon, 1/6; Dinner,
per week
per day
per week
per day
3/-
The HOTEL ARCADIA possesses the
Host Up=to=date Bottle Department
in the State.
Leading Brands only are stocked, which may be pur-
chased through the Civil Service Stores, Pitt Street.
Postal Orders for Wines or Spirits sent direct to the
Civil Service Stores for the Hotel Arcadia, will receive
prompt, careful attention.
THE HOTEL ARCADIA,
PITT and CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.


Mother’s best friend
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Experience, the mother of wisdom, has
proved that of all the thousands of
remedies for childhood weaknesses and
ailments, there is none to equal
SCOTT’S Emulsion, Tfmse are ex-
amples of thousands of letters received
from mothers :
COUGH BANISHED
“My daughter had a very obstinate
cough ; was unable to retain food and
had become weak and thin. After the
first bottle of Scott’s Emulsion she made
splendid progress, and now, thanks to
' Scott’s ; she is a fine, healthy child. ”
Mrs. Gibson, 16, Mitchell Street, Glebe,
Sydney, N. S. W. 23.6.11.
A NEW CHILD
" My baby boy was so delicate, I doubted
whether I should be able to rear him.
Now, through taking Scott’s Emulsion,
he is a new child, full of life and vigour,
and his health and condition are truly
remarkable.” Mrs. K . M. Bullock, 158,
Dowling Street, Sydney, N.S. W. 4.8.11.
A MOTHER’S REGRET
“My son George was always susceptible
to chest colds. He obtained relief from
the first dose of SCOTT’S Emulsion. I
regret I did not try Scott’s Emidsion
years ago; I would have saved a lot of
suffering and anxiety. ” Mrs. L. Langford,
22, Walter Street, Paddington, Sydney,
N.S.W. 4.8.11.
This Trade Mark is your guarantee
of SCOTT quality, purity
and strength. Imitations
do not bear this
mark.
It must
be Scott’s
Emulsion
afifl must
bear this
Trade Mark.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Ansemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard, No. S Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane ; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street, East Auckland.
Serial No. 810.-—Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
gfd
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
r Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
r and Auburn
r Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
A CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
Not a drop of alcohol in
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. This
makes it especially desira-
ble for children. Brings
color to the face. Gives
strength, energy.
The Queen of Table Waters
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
- > '' $
* 0
: . ■. :; : •
fMvmi
Tools
In Engineers' Tools and Requirements we don't stock the
patterns used by the late George Stephenson.
The Stock is brought right into line with the date on this paper.
Besides Engineers' Tools we are recognised as the house for a
full line of Plumbers' Modern Requisites.
We are Manufacturers and Importers of Engineers' Steam
Brass Work and Boiler Mountings.
SPECIALITIES:
STOCKS AND DIES ALL SIZES AND MAKES
EXTENSION FRAME HACK SAWS.
TWIST DRILLS. LATHES.
PIPE AND TUBE OF ALL KINDS.
JOHN HANKS 8 SON PROPTY. LTD.,
Plumbers and Engineers’ Supply House,
324 PITT ST.,
Liverpool St., SYDNEY.
near
A FEW PRICES FROM OUR LISTS
0
2
12
5.8.8. L. Choke £1
5.8.8. L. Choke ejector £1
S 8.8. L. “Long Distance’’ .. ..£1
I. HOLLIS £3 17
Crossbolt, £4 15 to.. ..£5 5
Hammerless £l2 10
BONEHILL, £3 0
Crossbolt £4 0
CASHMORE, £5 12/6 •• --£6 6
GREENER, hammerless pigeon £l2 0
BOSWELL, hammerless cross-
bolt, £2O £22 10
BOSWELL, best finish.. .. ..£25 0
“A.P.” Guaranteed Guns, from £6 6/,
£7 7/, £8 8/, to £3O. Legally-
signed Guarantee.
RIFLES.
Bavard, .22 Automatic Rifles, 21 /!
Stevens’s, from 10/6, 15/, 25/; Visible
Loading Repeaters, 35/; Remington Ilarn-
mcrless Repeaters, “cleaned from the
breech,” shoots .22 short, long and long
rifle, 42/6.
SECONDHAND GUNS.
Taken in part payment for “A.P.” Guns:—
Purdey £4O 0 0
Leige Hammerless £8 0 O
Greener Hammer £lO 0 0
Reilly Hammer £ 9 0 0
Hollis Hammer, £5 £3 0 0
Keep Hammer £1 10 0
Hughes Hammer 10 0
Hollowav Hammer £5 10 0
Biggest Selectisn of
WINCHESTERS
in Australia, including a number fitted
with Special Sights, which add greatly to
accuracy and have helped to make these
rifles famous. 50 Different Models to choose
from.
AUTO. PISTOLS.
20 Different Kinds, including the World-
famous Browning.
Prices. —Reform, 25/; Bayard, 45/;
Steyer, 45/; Browning, from 60/; Mauser,
70/, ana so on, through a big range of
Colt, Webley, Savage, and every known
maker.
SHOT GUN CARTRIDGES.
from 0/ per 100, smokeless, chilled shot;
500 for 37/6; special loads to order. Ask
for price list.
REPAIRS GUARANTEED.
Bring your repairs and talk with our
ENGLISH EXPERT GUN MAKER—face to
face.
ALCOCK& PIERCE,
SlB LITTLE COLLINS-STREET.
MELBOURNE.
‘THe Money
Maker.”
PH!B1
gmrnMintm
4M
«
SPECIALISTS
We Specialise in All Departments of our Business.
In Cinematographs we only offer THE BEST.
The Kelvin Engine and
The Empire Biograph
“The Combination that Ensures Success.”
These Plants are Portable and their
praises are proclaimed by all users.
We Can Supply Complete Outfits,
including Limelight Plant, at
£45
Send for our FREE CATALOGUE and MAKE
MONEY WITH MOVING PICTURES.
WE CAN ADVISE YOU IN ALL BRANCHES
OF THE BUSINESS.
JERDAN’S,
Opticians, Electricians,
Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
V ccoria : 236 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shave Yourself! Use a “ PLUM ” Razor.
We Guarantee Every “Plum'
We Sell for Two Years.
You can’t do better, because a better Razor isn’t made. Its
keen, delicately-tempered edge assures at all times a close,
clean, velvety shave. We use the Plum Razor in our Hair-
dressing Saloons, and undertake to keep the one we sell you
in tip-top order for two years, free of charge. Send to-day.
Price 10/6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 6/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 6/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
P.G.: There are 110 parodies of Brack-
en's verse, nearly all horrible. The one you quote
! seems particularly horrible. Glad to say we don t
know it. Life has been quite full enough of weari-
ness without that Kola: If you are- in for a
microscopical writing contest, you’ve got on to the
wrong address. Forward 10s. 6d. for wear and tear
of office eyes A.D.: It has a sincere ring, but is
an octave or so below concert pitch... .G.S.: Too
amateurish Harold: A verse or so by way of
warning:—-
MOONLIGHT AND THE MURRAY.
When the stars put on their dresses
Of twinkling diamond light
And the snow clouds comb their tresses
In the Moon-glass of the night,
Then the trees and banks are softened
With the moonlight’s dignity;
While all things harsh are coffined
Where the River dreams to sea.
.... D. 8.: You rush the Trinity round at an ex-
cessive speed. .. .S. King: Seems to have been thrown
together. Natural consequence is that it is thrown
out Zutski: All fail more or less gracefully....
Bellerive: A little of Henley’s London: —
Over the residents of Coster Alley
Did rest A gloomy pall,
Alas the captain of the costers
Had passed beyond recall;
While the bells were merrily chiming
On glorious Christmas day
The doleful undertakers called
To bear his corpse away
The costers loved their captain
As a mother loves a son,
He was honest and straightforward
Though fond of beer and fun.
Tim’s soul has gone to glory
Groaned his broken-hearted sal,
When the costers sadly clustered
Around the coffin of their pal.
. ...A.C.M.: Graceful, but too slight.... Lapp: It
isn’t suitable, and there will be no dividend. Don’t
send any more. . . .E.M.W.: Sorry, but it doesn’t get
there. .. .W.H.W.: No.... Hilda T.: A neat failure.
....Fiji Nephew: Rather a dull chronicle.... Green-
hide Bill: More tedious than a sermon.... Star: At
first we thought “Fatally Soaked” would be a good
title. Then we had an idea of labelling it “Found
Drowned.” The final decision was:— ,
ALAS!
O There on the table
Is a photo, of Mable
The dearest and sweetest of girls,
’Twas taken long years ago
Drink to her (Here’s a go)
Drink to her dear little curls.
I remember one day
In the warm month of May
She and I went a-walking together,
O How blue was the sky
And How happy was I
And our hearts were as light as a feather.
But there came a sad shock
Yes! a terrible knock
In another man’s arms I once found her,
She became the man’s wife
Led a terrible life
And one day in the river they found her.
....Amikus: Called in the office bailiff and ejected
your poem. .. . C.R.W.: You have our sympathy;
but if we dealt with all the cases where folks with
“encumbrances” are booted out of their jobs by the
people whose favorite topic is the infamy of Mal-
thusianism and the tragedy of the falling birthrate,
we should burst financially and die. .. .Sheila Mac:
Sketch poor; par. a ehestunt. Cut out and post
your contribution to the accountant, with date and
page, and payment will follow. . . .Fargone: Lot of
promise in it. Keep going... .Constant R.: Take
your word for it that the late Dr. Keenan was never
an R.C. priest, having failed to complete his course
of training. .. .One That Has Been There: Tell us
first—what is your interest in the field ?...:. E.
Temple: Returned 8/11/’l2 T.H.P.: Nothing
wrong with the metre, and the rhymes are irreproach-
able. Put the ideas are worn into ruts, and the
language is stodgy. ..A. Grecian: Give it half a chance
and the linotype can do 10 times worse than that.
You know the yarn of the battle-scarred hero who,
on arrival, was paragraphed as Colonel Jones, the
battle-scared veteran. Jones was angry and called
for a correction. He got it next day. With its
natural cussedness the linotype this time made him
the bottle-scarred veteran. .. .R.: Not this time, but
there’s strength in .it, and we’d like to hear from
you again Cane Slogger: Hesitate to give an
opinion without definite figures to go on, and they
are not available. Still, don’t believe it is anything
like 50 per cent. But that’s not the point, anyhow.
The important thing is this: Notwithstanding the in-
creased cost of living, the working population has
been able to earn so much more that the Savings
Bank deposits have approximately doubled in 10
years. In 1901-2 the Commonwealth total was
£33,028,429; in 1910-11 it was £59,393,682
Ad. R.: Your two Australians shake hands too often
and their habit of walking about arm in arm is
annoying... .Bushman: Poem jolts heavily... .T.S.:
No print value. ... Geo. H.: Your letter: “Sir, —
Will you kindly insert the enclosed lines in your
publication when convenient.—Yours faithfully, Geo.
II.” Your lines:—
Be something grander than you ever knew
And walk the quiet way.
Be something brighter, let your gladsome face
Reflect sunshine each day.
Be something noble, let your heart extend
Its pearls, if but a few.
Be brave, Be Kind, be just, ,
Be something grander than you ever knew.
.... L.C.: Paste them reverently in the album....
S.G.: Idea is very slight, and you haven’t enough
skill to work it up... .C.H.H.: Nicely typed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
J.M.P.: The other sketch had no stamp attached
for return.
“Tiaki’s” belated send-off - : —
Years ago, before a land tax had put Capital to
flight, a vessel got caught on that part of Maoriland
which Tamati Tohunga calls “the fish-hook of Maui,”
known to the white man as Cape Kidnappers. The
crew was added to Henare’s larder, and among the
spoil seized was a barrel of gunpowder, at the time
unknown in those parts. Chief Torima informed
his people that it was “korau” (turnip) seed, and
would provif' them with that vegetable for ever.
He immediately ordered his vassals to clean the
ground for planting, and used up all his spare time
invoking the vegetable joss Tahu. Then Rawhiti
happened along and explained that the black seed
was put inside a hollow iron stick, a round hard
substance rammed on the top of that, and, being
fired, the round, hard substance was blurted forth
amid lightning and thunder. Torima was much
impressed, and offered Rawhiti a greenstone mere
and two or three of the show girls of the pa for the
firearm. That gentleman returned per hoof in a
few months’ time with an implement he called a
“ngutu-parera” (duck’s beak), which is Henare’s
name for a flintlock musket. He fed it with the
turnip seed, which he called “paura,” topped it up
with a bullet and fired at a rata tree. Torima dug
the bullet out of the tree with his greenstone axe
and said, “Blime, this is orlright. Bring me six
more and I’ll give you much greenstone and lady.”
The six “duck’s beaks” duly arrived, much to the
joy of Torima, and the terror and depopulation of
the nearest hostile provinces. But Torima had not
heard that famous military maxim, “Keep your pow-
der dry.” His arsenal leaked and his powder became
damp. He had almost succeeded in drying some of
it in a large frying-pan over the cookhouse fire when
he was suddenly called away to attend a tangi. Un-
fortunately, it was his own tangi.


The Message of Sanatogen
No preparation of its kird has ever achieved such
a reputation as Sanatogen.
Many causes have contributed to this unpre-
cedented result.
Pre-eminent among them is the constant prescrip-
tion of Sanatogen by the medical profession which,
as a body, has awarded it the highest praise. More
than fifteen thousand doctors have written in the
most enthusiastic terms to describe the benefits they
have obtained from the use of the preparation
which The Medical Press and Circular states “has
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundred-fold.”
Everyone knows now that it gives
To the Sick —Health
It does this by its power of revitalising the
nervous, vascular, muscular, and digestive systems,
which it rapidly restores from a condition of depression
to one of normal action. By virtue of its composition
—pure milk casein in chemical combination with
organic phosphorus, an essential constituent of the
brain and nervous system —it feeds the brain and
nerves, it improves the condition of the blood, it helps
the stomach to digest other food, and it thereby develops
and strengthens the muscles. In this way it gives
To the Weak —Strength
and that delightful feeling of returning vitality which
tells the sufferer that he has conquered the disease
which had conquered him, and is once more on the
road to health, and the possibility of taking up his
life again where he had laid it down.
Sanatogen, however, does even more than this.
It has its message for those whom disease has not
touched. Everyone is capable of increased vitality and
vigour. By feeding the vital centres Sanatogen gives
To the Healthy—Vigour
so that work becomes a pleasure, toil becomes enjoy-
ment, and the whole system takes on a feeling of
•uoyawey, alertness and energy which is as delightful
as it is unusual.
Sanatogen’s merits have not only been eulogised
by the medical press, and by the medical profession,
but have also been endorsed by hundreds of the besv
known men and women who have testified to the
cures it has wrought in their cases.
Sanatogen may be obtained from all chemists.
Write to-day for free descriptive booklet by Dr.
Andrew Wilson. Please mention this paper, and
address:
Messrs. A. WULFING 8 CO.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
'
m
m
-Nl
'S, >.•
\ ? V fS- ’ **'
- MosSm ‘
f . ■
wmmm
tiHHINflh
\
, - , - K &MW? ' 1
; ■'
■■■ . ■* . '■ &. ,
fci mßmmimk ■ iSp#
■ ■V: . :■ -
. *,..
I *4 -l ?vtu m&mßmGk
-a , , jIL
»\% f gUs * n ' «
i44f jf_j V W*
*'. f i H
i-4 W MgMHe# ■ ds
Scrubbing tbe surface of the teeth
with powders or pastes does not thoroughly
cleanse them; it leaves their condition, and that
of the mouth, unimproved.
What the teeth and mouth need is Odol,
which antiseptically purifies the mouth, and
cleanses every part of all the teeth —not
merely where they show.
Being antiseptic, Octal arrests dental decay, and
being liquid, it penetrates even the minutest cracks
and crevices in and between the teeth, and by a
remarkable property, peculiar to Odol alone, it
permeates the gums and mucous membrane, freeing the
whole mouth from all harmful germs, and keeping
it free and fresh and wholesome, and the breath
delightfully fragrant for hours afterwards .


A. SAUNDERS’
YULETIDE GIFTS.
15/0
Nickel SHAVING STAND, polished, comprising
Opal-lined Bowl, Shaving Brush, and hot water
Mug.
1-Day TIMEPIECE, Oak Case
Conner Mounts, reliable Time-
keeper,
15/6-
Morocco MOTOR BAG, heavy Nickel
frame, leather lining, 2 centre di-
visions.
25/-
Field or OPERA GLASS, by Cha-
millard or Lernaire; sharp, clear de-
finition. Complete with Leather Case
and sling.
Nickel TOILET SET, comprising Bevelled Mirror,
Hair and Cloth Brushes, in Empire design.
15/6
Bronze ORNA-
MENT, on Blacl'
Pedestal, height
14 inches.
15/-
HAIR BRUSH, real
Ebony, Silver mounted,
Silver drawn bristles.
wz
A.SAUKDII&
C(i
MJUJIMK®
AUUnDtIQ
14
ri«T
We Have Very Carefully Prepared a Beautiful
Xmas Gift Booklet.
Will You Send For a Copy? It’s Free, and is Full of
Delightful and Practical Suggestions for
Xmas and the New Year.
£3/10/-
Gent’s TRAVELLING CASE, polished Leather,
quality fittings, solid Nickel-Silver Mounts.
best
All
u
vs
1/6-
Pocket COMPASS,
solid Brass or
Nickel Case, paper
Dial, ljin, If in.,
1/9
4/6-
Gent’s Nickel-mounted,
Military HAIR BRUSH,
richly embossed, fine
bristles.
17/6.
Gent’s Ebony BRUSH
SET, comprising
Hair and Cloth
Brush, Mirror, and
Comb, finest bristles,
in Morocco Case.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
GOODS
BUT
CLOCKS.
7/tt.
ASH TRAY and TRUMP MARKER, heavily Nickel-
plated.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
HOODS
BUT
pLOCKS.
10/6 •
Powerful 3-Draw Brass Telescope, 14in extended, sin closed, contained in Tan Leather Case.
15/6.
Bronze ORNA-
MENT, on Black
Pedestal, height-
-14 inches.
Nickel HAIR BRUSH,
richly embossed, Em-
pire design, Silver
drawn bristles.
8/6.
INKSTAND,
Crystal Glass Bottle and base, heavy
Nickel Mounts.
SEWING COMPANION, containing
7 useful articles, Bone Handles, Vel-
vet lined Case.
MANICURE SET, containing 9 useful
articles, in Xylonite, complete in Silk-
lined Case.
PIPE RACK, to hold 3 Pipes, polished
Nickel (Pipes not included), 8/6; Do. to
hold 5 Pipes, 12/6.
25/-
Gent’s COMPANION, comprising 2 finest
iiazors and Manicure Set, complete in
Case.
Sheffield
Leather
ADNDERS
Sydney's leading jeweller
807- 817
GEORGE ST.
Opp. RAILWAY STN„
SYDNEY
N. S. W.


THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
LmoJsSchebkr Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving:.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Ag:ents for Australia.
m
%
ILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/-
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller."
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
g
The
Modern
illuminant
Atmoslite Air-gas is
the modern illuminant.
It is white and bril-
liant, yet soft to the
eyes; costs surpris-
ingly little, and is
safe and hygienic.
Post-card brings
full information and
literature of Atmoslite
Automatic system.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
New EDISON
RECORDS.
Summer nights afford delightful oppor-
tunity for Edison Phonograph entertain-
ment, as this peerless instrument can be
set going on the lawn, the verandah, the
launch, row-boat, or at the picnic;
wherever the mood seizes you or your
fancy dictates.
In the list of New Records for Decem-
ber are many numbers that will appeal to
you—humorous songs, ballads, instrumen-
tal and band selections, all by the popu-
lar Edison artists, and produced in the
inimitable Edison way.
Go to-day and hear the New Records.
If you do not know the address of the
local dealer, write to us and we will tell
you ; and also send latest lists of Phono-
graphs and Records.
SPECIAL LIST OF EDISON RECORDS
SUITABLE FOR CHRISTMAS, SENT
'FREE ON REQUEST.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
fdg
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for
Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, 1/- and 2/6.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410).
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable:—
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
«»
99
ttm
sns.
m
Aa23
SOCKS, STOCKINGS
AND UNDERWEAR.
The all-Australasian-wool wear a* soft
as silk. And unshrinkable, too !
Every man, woman and child should wear 28© • Why ? Because
It is the most economical, the most hea'thy, and offers the best value
of any wear there is. is manufactured by a special process
which makes it as soft as silk, just as comfortable to wear, yet it wears
infinitely longer. is mace of pure Australasian wool and there
is not a bit of cotton in its manufacture, and it is guaranteed not to shrink. x
"CaMnl Socks. Stockinfis Sc Underwear (or men. ladies andchildren.
In all prices. Jason-mad* J erseysfor cmldren are splendid
wear Of Men s Outntters Drapers and Mores If your dealer does v
not stock •‘Jason" ne can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In ease of difficulty write for "Jason" booklet and ...vg.;!'.;}'
_ name of nearest agent to —
v ::/.-;.;.. Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester. ~>:;
ijV.yV.V/jlrji-.tv.-..,, Kngrland. ~.,• • i/;
fd
To
S’? Ant
rmrBNT
t*
SAF£ rY
r .e-riLLI?L
An Onoto is a Real Xmas Gift
This Christmas don’t give useless presents, however pretty
they may look. Give something that will be appreciated
and used by all who receive it —an Onoto Self-filling Safety
Fountain Pen. The Onoto fills itself in a flash from any
ink supply—cannot leak—and cleans itself in filling. The
ink flow can be regulated to suit your style of writing. It
never scratches, never splutters —and may we repeat it,
never leaks.
Can you give a better present ? Can you think of anything else that will
be used every day for a lifetime than this British-made fountain pen? The
Onoto is sold in a neat green box—easy and safe to post—by all stationers,
jewellers, and stores, price 12/—< and upwards. More elaborate models in
silver and gold for presentation purposes may be obtained at prices up to £6.
Booklet free on application to—
Thos. De La Hue & Co , Ltd.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
Onoto
Self-Filling- -
Safety Fountain
Pen
IMPORTANT.— For those who require a larger pen with a very flexible nib,
a special model—the new G, has been put on the market. It is exceptional
V value lor the money. Try this new Gat your stationers.
Ask your stationer for Onoto Ink—best for foun ain and all other pens
3839
fl
i
M
V.
m
a
m
K
“The World-wide Whiskey.”
BURKES
★ ★★ IRISH
WHISKEY
Distinguished by its Delicacy of Flavour.
Lightness and Digestibility.
Exquisitely Mellow.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
DUBLIN.
Capital £1,100,000. Estd. 1849
Important Cattle Sale
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, 24th and
25th APRIL, 1913.
BUSHY PARK STUD HEREFORDS,
KAI IWI, WANGANUI,
NEW ZEALAND.
THIS FINE HERD was founded apv,.
Mr. James Stuckey’s renowned TE
RANGITUMAU HERD. It has even been
still further improved from time to time by
importations from the best strains of Great
Britain. Its present owner. MR. FRANK
MOORE, can confidently claim that it is un-
rivalled in the Australasian Colonies for
EVENNESS OF TYPE, CONSTITUTION,
EARLY MATURITY, and GRAND RICH
DARK COLOR.
Owing to the expiry of certain Leases, the
whole of these FAMOUS CATTLE are to
be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION on 24th and
25th APRIL, 1913,
ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT RESERVE.
The Sale is a Genuine Clearing One.
The BUSHY PARK HERD includes, ap-
proximately:—
101 COWS, now in calf, and which will be
again in calf. From these are expected
about forty-five Heifer Calves this
season.
29 HEIFERS, two-years-old. They will be
in calf at time of sale.
23 HEIFERS, yearlings.
5 COWS, old, in calf.
These latter are the only OLD cows in
the lot. The foregoing constitute an aggre-
gate of
203 FEMALE STUD HEREFORD
CATTLE.
To this total must be added a
LARGE NUMBER OF STUD BULLS,
of different ages. The majority of these
will be rising two years at time of sale.
Then there will also be sold 45 BULL
CALVES.
These - MAGNIFICENT CATTLE are
practically all eligible for entry in the
ENGLISH HERD BOOK, and they will
be in splendid condition when sold.
The Sale of the BUSHY PARK STUD
HEREFORDS is a unique opportunity for
New Zealand breeders to improve their
Herds, or for Australian and South Ameri-
can buyers to introduce a new strain of
blood.
In the conduct of the Sale there will act
in conjunction—
MURRAY, ROBERTS AND CO., LTD.,
FREEMAN R. JACKSON AND CO.,
WILLIAMS AND KETTLE. LTD.,
Auctioneers.
Cablegrams of inquiry can be addressed:
“Pinfire,” Wellington, New Zealand.
CobberMoulh Organs
i . » nsspnciEß
ah— r—i f« rw a”? fgUEafri
No. I.—The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ... 3/“
No. 2. —The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 2/“
No. 3. —The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
No. 4. —The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/”
Sold by all Stores.
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A. E. Beal, East St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Qu<fcen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, I,aunceston;
G. W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne;
Optical & Photo Supplies Co.,
Hay St., Perth.
/
THE
WORLD’S
BEST l>
CREAM
SEPARA*
l -TOR
The keen farmer judges by results
Here is a
Proposition
The Melotte
Separator is
placed on the
market at a cost
slightly above
that of the
average cream
separator.
The
Result
The Melotte
has the largest
sale in the
British Empire,
and an annually
increasing one.
The
Conclusion
If the price
is above the
average, the de-
sign, materials,
workmanship,
and construc-
tion, must be
incalculably
above the aver-
age; otherwise
this enormous
sale would be
impossible.
The
Secret
lies inthefactthat
once installed,
the Melotte
produces an
increased yield
of the best
cream and butter
throughout a
lifetime of con-
stant use with
practically no
further outlay
I for upkeep.
MELOTTE
SEPARATOR SALES Co. L td
BRISTOL, ENGLAND. '
Sole
Agents
in
New South Wales : W. S. Friend &Co Sydney.
Queensland : Clark & Fauset, Brisbane.
Victoria : T. Robinson & Co., Propy.,Ltd.,
Melbourne.


NEW SEAM SANITARY GAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objectionable Fluxes.
tr OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
by a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
u AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN ACENCY: G. CUELPA di L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
[ Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
f Sick Headache, G-iddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
| Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
lnvaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
I Residents in Tropical Climates.
' Eno'S ‘FRUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
i by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
I stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventeu a serious illness.
i CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that It is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SA LT,’
, otherwise you have the stncerest form of flattery —IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. London,
1 S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fanev. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks!
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
The Gillette Safety Razor gives
you the smoothest, easiest and
most comfortable shave.
The velvety-smooth touch of the Gillette is the last
word in shaving comfort. Users of old-style razors
can hardly appreciate what a great advance
the Gillette Safety Razor has made
scientific shaving.
Its simple adjustment, enabling a coarse beard to be ,
shaved as easily as the finest growth , or a tender chin
to be shaved without -the least irritation , has brought
easy and comfortable self-shaving within the reach of every man.
There is nothing to learn before you can use the
Gillette —no stropping or honing. It is ready
for use the moment you pick it up.
Buy a Gillette for yourself. It means
a liletime of shaving comfort.
Why not begin now ?
Gillette Combination Set
m
r/
C
n
X
/
V
llUlllllllltlllllllll
"Well! isn't that
fine. Never thought
it was so simple.
It’s really no
trouble at all to
shave with the
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
gfd
BRITISH MADE. SOLD EVERYWHERE,
This illustration
shows the Gillette
r Combination Set. con-,
sisting of Gillette Razor
and 12 blades (24 cut-
ting edges), stick of
Gillette shaving soap and
brush, in velvet - lined
morocco case. There are also
Gillette Standard Sets
and Po:ket Ed tions.
Write for
Illustrated
B o okle t
“ Hints on Shaving ” and “ The Razor’s
Edge and How it Shaves,” sent post
free. Mention this paper.
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., 40-44, Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Works : Leicester, England.
NEW SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The report of Mr. Hay, the English expert ap-
pointed by the Government to report upon the best
means of dealing with the traffic problem in Sydney,
was laid upon the table of the Legislative Assembly.
At the outset of his report Mr. Hay says: (Usual
mass of expensive remarks.) —Daily paper.
Gome, let us to the North Shore bridge!
It stands up high and wide;
From it a boat looks like a midge
Adrift upon the tide:
And the trams sweep downward from the ridge
Across its spans to glide.
The topmasts of the passing ships
Pass underneath our feet;
The sea wind’s salt upon our lips;
The view, girls say, is “sweet” ;
Yet about us are the cracking whips
And noises of the street.
That noble platform hung in air
Revives our civic pride;
Distinguished strangers stand and stare
In manner dignified ;
But they could not match it anywhere,
Not even if they tried.
Now let us take the Underground
As far as Bondi beach ;
Just at the Quay our train is found—
The station soon we reach.
Yes, our traffic management is sound ;
The whole world we can teach.
The city street above our train
Is thronged, but not too full;
And folk no longer fight to gain
The cars that buck and pull
In the swarming, crooked traffic drain
Planned by the early bull.
The station up at Wynyard Square
Is where the trains set down
The business folk who used to swear
Some distance out of town,
And exhume an extra penny fare
To ride in tramcars brown.
These fine improvements you and I
Will view with pride some day ;
Just now they’re castles in the sky—
We’ve other bills to pay.
When the clouds on Cohen’s brow roll by
We’ll think again of Hay.
N.S.W.
FOE.
“Armes”: After his visit to the Sultan,
the German Emperor recommended a first-
rate man to organise the Turkish army.
This was Goltz, whose fame as a strategist
is world wide. His work doesn’t seem to
have helped things to any sky-scraping ex-
tent. But it has been often so. Colley, of
Majuba-disaster fame, had a huge reputa-
tion, and wrote the principal war articles
for the Encyclopaedia Britannica ; but
in actual strife his record is simply bad.
Moltke, a Dane who had transferred his
services to Prussia, once reorganised the
Turkish army, and actually led Ottoman
forces in Asia Minor. His operations were
not successful, but he caught the Prussian
eye more than ever. Considering the
amount of outside help and advice it has
had, the Turkish military establishment
ought to have been the thing it wa: sup-
posed to be, but isn’t.
Recently some Melbourne friends of the
late 1 red R. Norton, the ornate advertise-
ment canvasser, decided to place a marble
counterpane on bis little bed in Ivew Ceme-
tery. Now, the late Fred B. was nothing if
not convivial. He had graduated from the
English music-hall stage to the Melbourne
advt. market, and conviviality, tempered by
strict attention to business, was his habit
home time previous to his death he re-
marked that the last words of Omar Khay-
yam s Rubaiyat *Turn down an empty
glass 7~ Wo P ld go suitably on his tombstone,
iherefore it was proposed by his memorial
committee that Fred B. should be finally
disposed of with the apt quotation. But the
Ivew Cemetery trustees wouldn’t sanction
Turn down an empty glass.” They con-
sidered it disrespectful to the adjacent dead,
or insufficiently gravelike, or insulting to the
Holy Order of Rechabites, or something.
JLliey compromised, however, by permitting
the penultimate verse of Omar to be in-
scribed on the slab :
Yon rising Moon that looks for us again, '
How oft hereafter will she wax and wane;
How oft hereafter rising look for us
1 hrough this same Garden—and for one in vain!
It takes cemetery trustees to feel the poetry
of the suggestion that Fred B. Norton used
to pass, moonlight nights with his
friends in the Garden of Corruption
at Kew. But perhaps those trustees
had something buzzing in their heads.
The great mausoleum on the right as
you enter the cemetery gates is the residence
of the late David Syme, of the Age, built in
the Egyptian style and worthy of a Pharaoh.
Near by is a tall monument to the memory
of the late Halfey, who fattened 'on the
advts. of the local Herald, which lie owned,
more or less. Nothing that smacks of fri-
volity appears on their tombstones; so, per-
haps, the trustees have an idea that it
would be unseemly for an advt. canvasser
to be mentioned in connection with liquid
refreshment.
“N. or M.”: Tasmania’s King Island—
famed for fat cattle and that explosive little
news sheet, The King Island Register—
wants to change owners and be hitched up
with Victoria. Geographically, it is a little
nearer the mainland (50 miles from Cane
Otway, as against 60 from Cape Grim) ;
but that isn’t much of a reason for bump-
ing into various awkward clauses of the
Commonwealth Constitution. The island,
which takes its name from Governor Gidley
King, had once a close shave of conducting
its affairs under an alien flag. English and
French were running each other pretty
close in this part of the world in 1801, and
Commander Black, . of the Harbinger,
hoisted the Union Jack on the island in the
face of an exasperated French expedition
that had also just landed. Afterwards it
became a pretty good place to keep clear
of. Bands of outlaws refuged there, and
the rocky coast crunched many a ship that
had been lured out of her course by false
lights. And things were bad enough even
without false lights. Between 1835 and
1877 there were 21 wrecks—principally on
the West Coast. Prominent in the cata-
logue was the loss of the female-convict
ship Neva, in 1835, though more tragic was
the later wreck of the Cataraque, which
went down with 414 souls on board.


REMINGTON
UMC
'22 Cal. Repeating Rifle.
For almost 100 years the name
REMINGTON on Military and
Sporting rifles and shotguns has
been a guarantee of highest
quality.
REMINGTON
UMC
The latest product from this factory even excels the high standard
maintained in the past. The Remington-UMC small-bore rifle has many
new and important features. No other rifle on the market has all of
these: —
HAMMERLESS. —No exposed hammer to catch on fence or tree
branch.
SOLID BREECH.—Eliminates the danger of blow-backs, prevents dirt,
rain, etc., reaching the mechanism. A solid wall of steel between
the cartridge and the shooter’s eyes.
SIDE EJECTION.—The empty shell thrown downward from the side,
away from the line of vision and the shooter’s face.
REPEATING. Makes possible a number of shots in rapid succession
without loss of aim. Takes .22 short, long or long-rifle cartridges
without adjustment.
SAFETY DEVICE.—Locks the mechanism and prevents accidental
discharge when carrying, but ready in an instant for firing when
required.
SIMPLE METHOD OF DETACHING BARREL AND RE-ASSEM-
BLING. No tools needed.
CLEANING FROM THE BREECH.—The breech-block quickly and
easily removed for cleaning barrel from breech.
ACTION.—Smooth, swift and certain.
These features, the beauty of lines and balance, high-grade of
materials used and most skilful and experienced workmanship, place
the Remington-UMC Rifle in a class by itself.
See it—compare it with others—then decide
For Sale by Leading: Dealers Everywhere.
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FI^EE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
ASK YOUR WIFE
Being charged with the duty of assuring the maximum of comfort, at the
least possible expense, she appreciates the advantages of a perfect lighting
system, which is absolutely safe and clean.
SHE KNOWS
that the installation of a gas service means the saving of an untold amount of
work and worry, and, more than anyone else, realises the benefits of having
a gas stove and bath-heater always readv to help her through the continuous
round of household duties.
The Immense Saving Effected by
QUIRK’S AIR GAS
is alone a very important factor, for it is far cheaper than any known lighting
agent, while —being non-explosive and non-poisonous—there is no need to be
constantly on one’s guard against accidents.
THE SIMPLICITY IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MACHINE
assures reliability, and obviates the necessity of any skilled attendance.
The Company send their own Experts to install the system, and no payment
is asked until the Customer gives his certificate as to satisfactory service.
A BOON TO HOTEL PROPRIETORS and those in charge of premises
conducted for the accommodation of the Public, which patronises
those who study its comfort.
Directors :
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8.-, M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Limited,
117 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
gfd
(Do You Long for a Full Moustache?
Do you know why
So-and-so sot that
coveted billet? Be-
yond doubt YOU
have as much abil-
ity as he has —but
he probably “looked” the part better —had a full, manly moustache, which
gives an air of command.
LET CAPILLARINE HELP YOU!
It is the acknowledged moustache grower, with a 25 Years’ reputation.
Simply cannot fail —test it! Price 10/6 Jar, Post Free Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER (worn at night) shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price Fist.
Craig & AitKen,
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
J 3498. —-Best quality Silver-plated
Afternoon Tea Spoons,
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED.
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
Our FINE ARTISTIC SILVERWARE is distinguished by rich
design aided by skilled and experienced workmanship .
“ First Cost Prices' ’ bring these
the scope of a moderate income.
beautiful and useful goods well within
No. 300 A Butter
Knife, Jam Spoon, Pickle Fork,
Sugar Spoon and Tongs, in Case,
JBB2. —Best quality Silver-plated and Mother
o’ Pearl Butter Knife and Jam Spoon, in
Morocco Case,
14/0.
G 3942. —Solid Silver Sugar
Basin and Tong's, in Mor-
occo Case,
30/-
J3o7o.—Six Best quality Silver-plated
Cake i' orks, wiui Cake Server,
E946.—Solid Silver Shell
Design Butter Dish and
Knife, in Best quality
Morocco Case,
25-
ST EWART OAWso* 4ca '
LONDON
E 3682. —Best quality Silver-Plated Pie Servers,
in Morocco Case,
J 1723.-
-Best auality Silver-plated Butter
Knife and Jam Spoons,
21/-
ik
:4
Bs273.—Finest quality Silver-plated Cake Knife and Fork, in Morocco Case.
320.
082 G.—Box of 6 Best o’iality Silver-plated
Afternoon Tea Spoons,
5/0.
with Tongs, 7/6.
OTHER STEWART DAWSON ESTABLISHMENTS: Helbourne, Brisbane, Perth} Auckland, Wellington,
Christchurch, Dunedin, Hatton Garden, E.C , and Regent Street, W. London.


GIRL LAGER
You should be interested in good
Lager only. “Girl” Brand is
THE FINEST BEER IMPORTED
g
THE
BURBERRY
TOPCOAT.
, yvEATHcnprrocF wthout weight
PROTECTIVE WITHOUT HEAT.
Woven and proofed to afford better protection against rain
and all forms of damp; greater comfort and more lasting,
service than any others.
Healthy and Rubberless, Its generous cut affords freedom for
movement on foot or In the saddle.
UNLINED, 80/- LINED WOOL, 105/-
Cimified
BRISBANE
IN
BANANA LAND
A DEFINITION.
“He is what you'd call a financial pessimist."
“ What's that? ”
“ He's frightened to look cheerful for fear people
will want to borrow money from him."
“Don Q.” : Bananaland’s Railway Depart-
ment, which boasts that it holds the world’s
record in the matter of immunity from loss
of life in railway accidents, was “rattled”
by a recent smash at Redbank, when a goods
train went up in splinters. Fortunately no
lives were lost. The disquieting circum-
stance was that the goods special, which
smashed into a standing train, was running
just ahead—some 20 odd minutes —of the
Sydney mail. Had the positions been re-
versed, the mail, which runs through Red-
bank at 45 miles an hour, would have piled
up its remains. Railway men pooh-pooh the
idea of any accident happening to the Syd-
ney express, alleging that extra precautions
are taken to clear the road for it; but the
ugly fact is that the block system broke
down on this occasion. As a matter of fact,
for 18 months the block system between
Brisbane and Ipswich has been constantly
hung up or otherwise maltreated ; and there
seems to have been considerable commotion
in the Department in consequence. A week
after the smash the Railway Commissioner
shuffled the staff of traffic managers. The
Southern Division man was transferred to
Townsville, and the Townsville man came
south. Perhaps to make the change look
less significant, McGrath (Central Division)
was transferred to the Downs, and. the
Downs man was sent to Rockhampton.
A Ballade of Bills.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In glad, mad rags did we race away,
Never a care in our souls had we ;
And never a thought of the price we’d pay—
Those were the Bays of the Foaming
Spree.
N ow\ when the dregs of the feast we dree
And sit forlorn in the shivering skin,
Where, oh where, shall the naked flee?
These are the Bays when the Bills come in.
Our nights were lit by a gladsome rav.
Our songs we sang with a drunkard’s
glee ;
And some were giddy and all were gay—
Those 'were the Bays of the Foaming
Spree.
“Care be damned!” was our maxim free;
“End is none to our Uncle’s tin !”
Now he clamors from Oversea—•
These are the Bays when the Bills come in.
And so we frolicked it all the May,
Tripped it merrily round the tree,
And swilled the bowl to a tippler’s lay—
Those were the Bays of the Foaming
Spree,
Now right sorry and sore we be,
Sore and sick as a curdled sin;
Begging grace of the Mortgagee—
These are the Bays when the Bills come in!
Envoi.
Brethren, list to a broken plea—
Just a trifle of ale or gin
Give us, pray, of your oharitee—
These are the Bays when the Bills come
in !
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 16, 1912.
My Dear Tiiahgomindah,—
The vice-royal Macgregor, who has been
acting as a sort of publicity agent for
George V. and his bigger half by distribut-
ing their photographs amongst the State
schools, much in the same way as circus
bills are occasionally handed round to the
children, took spell-oh to-day, and appeared
before the multitude at the Hospital sports.
Next week he will take another well-earned
rest from the slog of his daily work, and pro-
ceed to the Downs, where he will study the
simple.life of the perspiring harvester. It
must be fully a fortnight since his Ex. had
a week off.
The holy war of extinction proclaimed by
the Women’s Club against the mosquito is
being waged with vigor. On Thursday,
Health Commissioner Ellcington lectured the
club on the life, habits and quickest methods
of killing the insect; and since then resolute
females have been kerosening tanks, bath-
ing pools and other nurseries of the pest
with encouraging impartiality. It was news
to learn from the lecturer that only lady
mosquitoes bite, although that hard-hearted
animal, man, will no doubt say he is not
the least surprised to hear it.
Miss Astronomer Proctor spoke familiarly
of other worlds than ours to a packed and
perspiring Albert Hall audience on Wednes-
day evening. The building would have burst
asunder had another seeker after knowledge
been admitted, and much good money was
tearfully turned away from the door. The
star lady will endeavor to coax it to the
Palace Gardens, which is an open-air show,
on November 25.
Conductor Leonard Francis put the Lied-
ertafel through its paces on Wednesday night
with good results, the influence of new blood
being plainly noticeable in the choruses and
orchestral work. Mrs. Kitty Wagner Clarke,
in cinnamon satin with an overdress of blue
ninon, was the head-line vocalist, but none
of the songs she chose suited her usually-
pleasing voice.
On Monday morning a confused chatter-
ing in the vicinity of the Town Hall indi-
cated that several womenites were holding a
Wattle Day League meeting. Each com-
mittee lady conversed at high pressure with
her neighbor, and the result was more nerve-
racking than I could set down without the
aid of profane language. As far as I could
gather, the principal business was the ad-
journment for lunch. Anyhow, it was the
most interesting.
A section of Brisbane’s more flighty sex
is working for the establishment of a
Women’s Residential College in connection
with the University.
The Society .of Artists had a very good
show last week. President Colclough and
young Stanhope Hobday (who has inherited
much of his father’s genius) were two of the
most prolific exhibitors. Oscar Fristrom
showed several pictures, of which the most
striking was a very large nymph surrounded
by a very small forest. The veteran, how-
ever sent along some life-like portraits,
which make up for the nymph person.
Tattersall’s races to-day were tame to the
verge of dullness. Of the usual race-goers,
only Mrs. Jack Thomson, well-gowned as
usual, Mrs. Ned Tully, in biscuit and saxe
blue, and Mrs. Stanley Chapman in grey,
were noticed. The wind and the heat, or
both, no doubt accounted for the absence of
other chronic racecoursers.
The weddings of the week involved little
Doris Sellars, of South Brisbane, and
Leonard Lee, of Toowoomba; and Miss
McAllister, daughter of late schoolmaster
McAllister, decided to risk it with a young
Englishman named Smart.
Yours in the languor of early summer,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
.The Q.M.E. Co.’s Ross Island (Towns-
Y ille ) meatworks reckon that they have
J us t Put U P an Australian record. Alto-
aether, 80,295 cattle were tinned or frozen
for ex P° rt during the season. Which, no
dou kt, is one reason why Australia has been
Paying lOd. per lb. for steak,
Bluff old E. B. Forrest, addressing his
testimonialisers, recently remarked: “He
had never aspired fig be a leader, but he had
invariably'' followed a leader—sometimes a
good one, sometimes a bad one.” Forrest,
although a tough old Tory, lias always been
a straightforward politician. Nevertheless,
he mouthed the party gospel in all its in-
herent viciousness ! Follow any lead, good
or bad, so long as you stick to the party,
Governor Macgregor, opening the new hos-
pital at Kilcoy, was escorted by 100 local
boys and girls mounted on ponies. The
Chieftain remarked on the novelty of the
proceeding, and said that the only thing like
it in his experience was a Central African
deputation of some thousands of Arabs, fan-
tastically dressed and mounted, who came
out to get an interpretation of Adverse of
the Koran. Macgregor declined to interpret,
which was a pity. Gordon of Khartoum
would have done so promptly, and gained
huge kudos as a prophet.
Dredged from the Statistician’s report for
1911, just issued :
Gold mined, 386,1G40z., valued at £1,640,323
the least since 1887. In 1910, it was 441,4000 z.,
valued at £1,874,955. Value of silver raised,
£56,305 —lowest figures since 1900. Value of cop-
per, £1,151,351 —the record. The nearest to it
was £1,028,179, in 1907. Tin gathered was valued
at £307,817 (£243,271 in 1910). The wheat
crop was 285,109 bushels (the lowest since 1902, and
737,264 bushels less than 1910) ; maize, 3,637,562
bushels (832,744 less than the previous year) ; sugar
made, 173,296 tons (37,460 tons less than 1910) ;
tobacco, 476,5321 b. (72,6141 b. behind 1910) ;
bananas, 1,151,516 bunches (it was 1,121,075 in
1910) ; sheep totalled 20,740,981, being an in-
crease of 409,143 over the flocks of 1910 ; cattle.
5,073,201 (58,498 less) ; horses, '618,954 (25,141
more). The wool produced was 142.382.2691 b. (in
1910 it was 139,250,8021 b. ; and 129,668,2981 b. in
1909).
IN THE COW
COUN TRY.
THE BLOKE ON THE
F ENCE: “Tom Pul-
len's missus's got
’nother boy.”
THE COW COCKY:
"Blarst'er! I ’spose
he won’t sell me
them poddy heifers
now. They'll just he cornin’
on by the time the kid kin milk.”
“We have got to retrench all round. Make
no mistake about it.” — Forsyth , M.L.A.,
Queensland's leading financial authority (or
thereabouts).
According to Queensland’s Chief Protec-
tor of Aborigines, our black brothers at
Lloyds Bay have one beautiful custom. On
the death of a buck his widow must not talk
till her hair has been cut off. The cutting
is often postponed for quite a long time!
The Denham Government’s new Liquor
Bill proposes to allow “ bona-fide lodgers to
have liquor with their midday meals on
Christmas Eve.” But why not, also, some
hair of the dog with afternoon tea, or a
dochan-dorris in the breakfast cup. Every
tipple helps—to win the brewery vote.
Filed his petition in insolvency the other
day, in Townsville, P. F. llanran, Philp’s
one-time colleague. Hanran was probably
the most silent man who ever sat in the Q.
Assembly, and was also one of the most
open-handed business men in Northern Aus-
tralia. His financial fall will waken keen
regret in the hearts of scores whom his liber-
ality helped in time of trouble. t
“Kuscobin”: One of these days we’ll have
a big wreck on the Australian coast, and
the inquest will disclose that no wireless
messages got through. But will it disclose
why? The fact is that our biggest coasters
fitted with wireless carry only one operator,
whose salary is generally 30s. a week and
keep. And talking of wireless. One of the
men on a mammoth coaster told me that he
and two others in the service had compared
figures, and found that Commonwealth ex-
pert Balsillie’s estimate that 90 per cent,
of messaged were of the “love and kisses”
variety, was a wild exaggeration. They
found quite GO per cent, were about the
time of the boat’s arrival, weather, etc.
That’s a nasty one for Cupid !
“I.B.”: Re “Vigilans’s” par. (B.
14/11/T2) about “dummy” auctioneers in
Melbourne. A case arising out of this kind
of conspiracy has just run into its second
week in Brisbane. The person charged was
acquitted, out in the evidence some startling
admissions were made. One witness ad-
mitted that he had come up from Sydney,
where “practices as alleged in this case were
the x-ule.” “If you happen to be asked in
Sydney if such auctions prevail in Bris-
bane, you can say most emphatically they
do not,” was the Chief Justice’s comment
on this. “Puffers” and “rammers” were
two classes of gentry much discussed during
the trial —they were admitted to be big fac-
tors in securing bids.
Population or Invasion—Which?
Peter Airey (formerly Treasurer up North)
writes from Brisbane:—
E. J. Brady remarks (B. 31/10/’l2) that “between
the man who wants to flood the country with cheap
whn J;.-mK° f r iU f d the short-sighted Labor partisan
who wants to stop immigration for fear of flooding
of%hf Po ’ h6re \lv n ° difference-—both are enemief
t * he Commonwealth.” One is glad to see a man
of Bradys calibre preaching a sound Australian gos-
w ’*i5 SpeC m lly - when one realises that not only the
Northern Territory, but two-thirds of Queensland is
simply yawning for population —or invasion There
is a general loose impression among Southerners that
Queensland is doing big things in the way of
peopling the North; but most of the new arrivals
settle in the South of Queensland, and decline to.
leave it. Here are some paralysing figures on the
way we are covering tropical Queensland with Euro-
pean settlers. Take the Central district for a start,
j’} l ® ® rea of this province (official figures) is
148,652 square miles. In the census of 1901 the
population was given as 64,840, and 10 years later
the census return had mounted to 74,669. So in 10
years Centralia had actually added 9829 persons to
lt; s numbers, an increase of less than a thousand pa-
annum for a country nearly the size of France. But
the figures for Northern Queensland are more
astounding still. N.Q. has an area of 310,495 square
J" 1991 h P“ed a population of 112,567
souls, while in 1911 it numbered 127,708 persons—
an increase in 10 years of 9141, or at the rate,,
therefore, of 914 per annum. If we keep on at this
terrific rate it will take (roughly) about 1000 years
before we get a million people i-nto Northern Queens-
hTonntenutol^™ 6 Jap £ r his , Asiatic brother will
be content to give us a thousand vears of grace, but
it seems much more likely that by that time we
?r all be alluding to that tropical region as New
Nagasaki, and calling cheerfully “Banzai” on the
Mikado’s birthday. Fancy putting three people per
ann ' ,m to every 1000 square miles into a land half
g S® 'Sfthf E ?®8
e -Y e . on a wasted country ! Opr “nominated” system
of immigration has this grave defect: the nominees
all want to settle and get jobs (nearly always in
town > °f course) close to the relatives or friends who
nominated them—a tendency which leads, naturally,
to the dumping of imported humans into the already
thickly populated centres. The condition not only of
?- ut a / so ,? f Northern Queensland, is
a ., sending invitation to the alien; and if the fer-
tility, climate and magnificent salubriousness of the'
j atter country were only better known, it would not
wait for visitors, hostile or otherwise. The nre-
sent Queensland Government (to do it justice) has
Tm?xwl d u in iT ligTat i° ri - th . e , I , ast few
n ’ • V he North hardly participates at all in this
human influx, unless the importation of one or two
individuals per annum for every 1000 square mile”
can be called a serious attempt at populating a
country.
Bananaland’s latest railway addendum is:
a dining car, for use in the wilds of Central l
Queensland, iron, Emerald to
wllere at piesent it is almost impossible to-
get so much as a drink from an old water-
bag.
The eighth issue of Australia To-Day, just out,,
reaches the highest point of excellence since The
Australasian Traveller commenced to publish am
annual. J. Le Gay Brereton contributes a set of !
verses on Australia’s heritage ; James Bryce puts-'
the view of a British ambassador on the Common-
wealth; W. H. Kelly, M.H.R., L. A. B. Wade, Johm
Am, Jullus and £ u ’ id J - Gordon,
ar ® other well-known contributors. The illustrationsi
and statistical information are alone worth the pur-
chase money. p
Australasian Motor Cycle Record On Fridav
November 1, at the Amateur Sports Ground, Mel-
bourne, Mr. J. Booth, riding a 34 h.p. Motor-Cycle,
succeeded in establishing a new Australasian Record
a fi “Ss records b? 1 mfle^ThfHll
hour’s run was accomplished without a stop, and the
rider was checked and timed by the officials of the
Victorian Motor-Cycle Club. It was Mr. Booth’s
® rst real experience of the B.S.A. Motor-Cycle, and
tWimfr very ,^ e t rly p ,£
h?m go™H out 6 traCk Would have let


; •
"
IMK
lliii
liPiiiiliiili
1
\
J
s
€
r
■
■
‘-Tfie *lyre With
<he BIG NAME
& Big Mileage
mtk
1
m
swji
M
m
m


Shipping;.
Pm and Qrn
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS.
CONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 11l
William Street.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBODRNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Svdnet.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
gank of |]orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp Sc Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: 11. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business,
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Sir William P. Manning, Ivt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Make Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales Sc Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act ISO 3.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All neiv business since 1898 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2
years and over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance
Co-
ld.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
171 IRE. ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
- PENS ATT ON. PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at, Lowest Rates.
Shipping:-
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECICE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
TITOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of [)euj Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
i'P 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Gieat Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fdg
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
December 18.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail early
February.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and AFRIO to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. . . 110 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Acents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
s.s. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACK AY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port I’irie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD.,
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to three months, and
costing £5 to £25.
dfg
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve Fund ....
Reserve Liability -
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Ivt.,
Established 1817.
DIRECTORS:
WALES.
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
Richard Binnie, Esq.
£8,085,000
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
The lion. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, lvt.,. M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office-George St., Sydney, London Office-29 Threadneedie St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 6, AFestern Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 67,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiiek, Esq .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. KaTeu, M.L.C. •• Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onsloxv Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley. W. 11. PINHEY,
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; lion. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State ,of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).- 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man. :E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budgre Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual pfe
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumtilated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The "Pearl of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any point in
the UNITED STATES or CANADA.
ROUND THE WORLD TOURS,
First and Second Class.
ROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning
from Vancouver via Honolulu, Suva anc 1
Auckland, or via the Orient.
STEAMERS SAIL—
MOANA, AORANGI, TAHITI,
NOV. 30. DEC. 28, JAN. 25.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Uiimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH. & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
T.S.S. Warilda (7713 tons),
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, November
23, carrying Ist and
2nd Saloon and Steer-
age Passengers. Also
December 21.
BKISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 23.
S.S. Marloo, Nov. 30.
S.S. Wollowra, Dec. 7.
Saloon Passage I lckets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can bo
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CAN ADI AN -AU STR ALI AN R.M. LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
* Displacement tons —Niagara, 20,000; Makura, 12,200
Zealandia, Marama, 10,500.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. - T. PRISKE, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
BRISBANE .. .. sth DECEMBER
SYDNEY 11th DECEMBER
MELBOURNE .. .. 17th DECEMBER
ADELAIDE .. .. 24th DECEMBER
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. ~ £4O to £45. £l6/16/-to £lB/18/-
(4-berth.) (2-berth.)
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE, leaving Sydney 22nd December.
T.S.S. SUFFOLK, leaving Sydney, 21st January.
ALL FITTED WITH WIRELESS.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to —•
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Melbourne
and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
TEN DAYS TO LONDON
FROM SAN FRANCISCO.
Sydney to San Francisco in 19 Days.
Via Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu. Saves 3000
miles ocean travel. Includes: South Sea Islands,
Yosemite Valley, Rocky Mountains, Grand Canyon,
Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS.
ROUND WORLD TICKETS issued to return by
all Suez and Cape Lines. Round Pacific Tickets,
Covering China, Japan, America, and Islands, at
Low Rates. For Rates of Passage and Freight apply
OCEANIC STEAM SHIP CO.,
44 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel., 2282 City.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
McLucas Gold Mines
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL £lO,OOO in 40,000 Shares of ss.
each, of which 8000 Shares are Fully Paid
Up and 32,000 Shares are Contributing, pay-
able 6d. per Share on Application, the bal-
ance of 4s. Gd. is payable by way of calls as
may be required, but not to exceed Two
Pence per Share per month.
McLUCAS GOLD MINES (locally
known as Blackfellow Reef) are situated at
the head of Pikes Creek, 25 miles N.W. from
Dalveen Railway Station, containing 20
acres leasehold. Crushings have given as
high as Boz. per ton, with an average of
3oz. Bdwt. for 200 tons. This is
verified by recent Assays giving Boz. Sdwt.
per ton. About 3000 tons mixed quartz have
been raised and stacked at the mine. A
Report and Survey, by Mr. F. W. Thomson.
Mining Surveyor and Engineer, is attached
to the Prospectus obtainable from members
of Stock Exchanges, or E. Steele, Secretary
nro tem., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. The
Provisional Directors are: Messrs. D.
Sheahan, Sen., Stanthorpe ; and G. Critten-
den, R, Rosenstengel, J. Sunderland, IT. C.
Pointer and G. Feldmann, of Toowoomba.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted fre j, fid. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.


'EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
SJSfITISIL
UMML
Unique Situation —overlooking the
charming park-like Russell Square,
surroundings quiet and secluded,
yet within easy access of West End
and City shopping centres and all
, principal London attractions.
Dainty yet substantial cuisine.
Bedrooms sunny, airy and delight-
fully furn i s h ed. Apartments,
Suites, Winter Carden and general
appointments unsurpassed for re-
finement and comfort. Moderate
Tariff. Special terms to families
and visitors making a prolonged
stay.
Telegrams : Hotel Russell, London.
of
Drawee Line
at the
link Bottle
It’s
the one
thing which
links thousands
Good Folk to
the Middle Ages. Get
Watermans
(Ideal)
FountaSriPen
and show your appreciation of the age
in which you live. Over 20,000,000
Waterman’s Ideals m use, and upwards
ot a million purchased every year. Nibs
to suit all hands ; every pen guaranteed.
In 4 Styles—Regular and Self-rilling.
12/6 and upwards; Safety and Pump-
Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stalioners or Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HAROTIVIUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
df
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
it.
&mm j'
F.WOLFFASOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE k
BERLIN ft LONDON g*/
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.
Commonwealth
gdf
Bank of Australia.
GENERAL BACKING DEPARTMENT.
BRANCHES WILL BE OPENED AT AN EARLY DATE IN Sydney,
Melbourne Brisbane. Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, also Canberra
(Federal Capital) and in London,, for the transaction of General Banking
business. SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
AGENCIES NOW OPEN AT LOCAL POST OFFICES throughout
Victoria, Queensland, and Northern Territory.
AGENCIES WILL BE OPENEiD IN ALL THE OTHER STATES OF
THE COMMONWEALTH, including PAPUA, in January, 1913.
Deposits received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three per cent, per annum on all deposits up to £3OO.
December, 1912. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting'Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Brancn Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
THE FIRST OPEN-AIR
ROOF GARDEN
in the Commonwealth of Australia has now been opened by
MR. G. MATOOREKOS,
Proprietor of the well-known Cafe, 68 and 70 Swanston Street, and Queen’s
Walk, near Collins Street, Melbourne,
For Afternoon Tea, Dinner and Supper.
Q. MATOOREKOS, Proprietor.
Lime -Irui t Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice'
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTSERRAT la sold by all leading Storekeepers.
gfd
'W-
VAREXO
UNIVERSAL
DROPPERS
(Patented)
are not weakened by holes or slots.
THEY WILL NOT SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to —
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Cr. LEICESTER & QUEENSBERRY STREETS, CARLTON, MELBOURNE,
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
I
HORSE 8 CATTLE
DRENCHING BIT.
Sharpe’s, English Pattern.
Nickel-plated, with light detachable funnel having
lid to top and stop cock at base ; stout leather bridle,
cotton rope.
Improved mouthpiece ; as diagram.
POST FREE 18/0 Anywhere.
Other kinds at 7/3 & 16/= post free.
WRITE FOR VET AND KNIFE LIST.
Advice Free by our
Veterinary Surgeon.
SHARPE & SHARPE,
18 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY, N.S.W
••• ■ ■•'
, ■ : .
2m ■■'*&&
"■"m \‘. =*i
- -
i ,„-. : "i
---¥‘
g
fdg
The “RINGER”^
DOMINION
AGCORDEON
For the Dance, the
Picnic, and the Camp,
the “Ringer” Model
IS THE ONE
The brass trumpets of the “Ringer’*
are a feature found in no other, and
they help to give jt that wonderful tone
that has made it such a favorite
The “Ringer” as illustrated 23/-
~ ~ with Steel Reeds 28/-
~ larger model 29/-
~ larger model Steel Reeds
in wood case with lock 45/-
Ask for our illustrated catalogue of Dom-
inion Accordeons, and name of nearest
agent.
JACKSON & MACDONALD, i
Ik. DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Summer
Suits.
We are showing;
a very tasteful
range of Suitings
for this Summer,
and in cases
where customers
cannot call in,
will post samples
on application.
fdg
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
Tailors and Costumers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite “Evening News.”)
UHGLfIIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
OOUIUL'S REOISTKR to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, &c Ac., price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
QOUCAL&CO., 151 STRAND, LONDON, ENGLAND.
(Kutahliuhnl nvrr 60 Venrs-)
Box 1281, G.P.0., SIDNEY.
Wi@ h
W. c-


THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
I'he severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by aIT Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. tid.
fd
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
pyj
Each Capsule bears the name
Amusements.
Theatre koy a e, Sydney.
Direction: J. C. WTLLTAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
MAGNIFICENTLY PRESENTED.
A SERIES OF BEAUTIFUL STAGE PICTURES, AND
A DRAMATIC STORY OF UNFLAGGING
EXCITEMENT.
B E N H U R.
THE WONDER SPECTACLE OF THE CENTURY.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
FULL OF MERRIMENT AND LIFE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50,
THE CHAMPAGNE OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
Sparkling, Effervescent, Refreshing.
THE QUAKER GIRL.
SEE THE NEW FEATURE, JU-NO KATA.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
HE Australian Magazine—THE DONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
It you
fel\CoStO
Young trees to
plant or any
earth boring to
do, you will find the
IWAN POST HOLE DIGGER
ttie greatest of all earth
boring tools. It cuts
the hole just the size
for the post, in a frac-
tion of the time taken
with bar and spade, and
no time is lost ram-
ming. Works in all
conditions and kinds of
soil —not rock. On a
fencing job 120 ten-inch holes can
be easily bored in a day, or 200
smaller sizes. By extending the
pipe bar the IWAN POST HOLE DIGGER
bores down to 35 feet. Empties
with a shake; is built rigid —stays
rigid—has no adjustable parts to
wobble about or stick.
You Need the Iwan!
3456 7 89 10 12 Min.
7/. 7/- 7/. 7/- 7,6 8 6 9/6 10/- 27/- 34'.
Here’s a fine
Sawbench
for £l2/10/-
Soon cuts a big stack of firewood,
and allows you to get on with other
jobs, which you couldn’t do if you had
to peg away all day with a crosscut
saw. By saving time you save money.
The Saw Bench soon pays for itself.
Lots of other sawing jobs, besides
firewood, can be undertaken too. This
is an up-to-date bench, and quite the
best value on the market.
Travelling Table is made from angle
and sheet iron. Cannot shrink. Can
neither tilt nor cant when placing
heavy logs on the bench.
The trouble with ordinary benches —
that of wood-stays shrinking—has
been overcome .by providing heavy
bracings, which can be taken up if
required.
For all-round work on Farm and Sta-
tion, and for Firewood Merchants this
Saw Bench has no equal.
£l2/10/- Includes 30=inch
English Saw.
Ripping Attachment, 30/- extra.
We sell High-Grade Tools and Appliances for every conceivable
use. Whatever Tools you require, write and get acquainted with
the kind we sell—and the Money-Saving Prices.
c
“ Machinery and Tool Merchants,”
554-00 and 582-88 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Palace theatre, Sydney.
Lessees: TALBOT LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
AN INSTANTANEOUS and UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
A WOMAN OF IMPULSE.
THE STRONGEST PLAY OF THE YEAR.
A Profound Impression created by
MADGE MCINTOSH as LADY LANGFORD.
PRICES : 4/-, 2/6 & I/- Plans at Paling’s.
National amphitheatre, sydney.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
LES RINCHS, Lady and Gent, Daring, Beautiful,
Wonderful, Humorous, Novel.
JOE HURLEY, in Impersonations & “ One Man Drama.”
THE DELROYS, Jugglers, Hoop Rollers, etc.
THE GRESHAM FOUR, Sydney’s Best Quartette.
ROY RENE, Australia’s Yiddish Boy.
MAUD FANNING, the Versatile Coon Impersonator.
ARTHUR ELLIOTT, the Lively Acrobatic Comedian.
Adel phi theatre. Sydney.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF AT CRIPPLE CREEK
MORE ENGLISH DRAMATIC SUCCESS.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
For the First Time in Australasia.
The Coal Mine Sensation Drama, entitled
WHAT WOMEN WILL DO FOR LOVE.
Prices : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/- Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JH E LYCEUM. SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
LACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN'S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
RICKARDS’ TIV O L I THE A T It IS.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
COUNT MCDONALD.
THE RALLIS & WILSON TRIO, in Screaming Burlesque.
WILL WHITBURN, in Dry Humor and Quaint Oddities.
NELLA WEBB, the Incomparable American Diseuse.
BURNS & BENTLEY. CLAUDE LE PLASTRIER.
DE BIERE, a Delightful Entertainment of all thar is
Fascinating in Magic. VAUDE & VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —45., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s &Theatre.
r\ P E R A HOUSE, M E L IS O U It N IS.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
THE THREE SISTERS MACARTE, presenting their
Spectacular Soena, “ The Landof the Lotus.”
MISS FLORENCE BAINES, the Lancashire Comedienne.
PAGE COMEDY CO. in “A Curate’s Misadventure.”
THE MAX FRANKLIN TROUPE, Wonderful
European Acrobats.
FANNY POWERS, the Dainty Mimetic Artist.
TAYLOR & ARNOLD, Rag-time Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
■J" HEATKE KOYAL, MELBOCBNJJ.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
First Production of
GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD
Presented by a Brilliant Band of Comedians.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELIIODKNK,
* Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
Reappearance of
W. ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in
THE SPAN OE LtEE
(By arrangement with Bland Holt).
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
P
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
, in
The Sensational London Success,
THE GIRL WITHOUT A HOME.
Prices 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
FOR THE FIRST TIME HERE.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in
NIGHTBIRDS.
Adapted by Gladys Unger from Strauss’s
“ Die Fledermaus.”
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
PRINCESS COURT, ROCKHAMPTON, NIGHTLY.
Direction amaegamated pictures
etd.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace,
THE MAJI STIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock,
3d., (id. and ]/-
EVENING PRICES : 2/-, 1/6,1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH BROS.’ GREATEST SHOW ON
EARTH.
4 SHOWS COMBINED 4.
CIRCUS, menagerie
AUSTRALIAN AND AMERICAN
WILD WEST SHOWS.
GENUINE AMERICAN COWBOYS.
COWGIRLS AND MEXICANS
Competing in Exciting Contests against the Very Best of
Australian Stockmen and Rough-riders.
Circus Replete with Entire New Company, including
HILLARY LONG, the Upside-down Phenomenon.
The Combined Show has just completed
TRIUMPHANTLY SUCCESSFUL SEASONS IN
ADELAIDE AND MELBOURNE,
and is now on its Annual Tour of New Zealand prior to
its invasion of Sydney in all Glorious Splendor and
Opulent Vastness.
AUSTRALIA’S REAL REPRESENTATIVE SHOW
Whose home is Australia, established in Sydney in 1880,
and travelled the world from 1892 to 1900
THROUGH EVERY LAND AND CLIME,
Leaving everywhere a name a credit to Australia and
Australians, and now
INTRODUCING TO AUSTRALIA ANNUALLY
STRANGE WILD ANIMALS AND THE LATEST
NOVELTIES AND WONDERS FROM ALL PARTS
OF THE KNOWN GLOBE.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
%A#EST’S PALACE. MELBOURNE.
the bestWDSI S PIC 1 DUES, the best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the AVorld.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vie.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCi I KSTItA. (I<l. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
What You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have something- to
say worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”—William Ewart Gladstone.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
The Stage a Speciality.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the College or. by letter.
of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset
r 554 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd.
BALANCE SHEET
(IN LONDON AND AUSTRALIA, JUNE 30, 1912).
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-43,155 Shares at £25 per share
£ s. d.
1,078,875 0 0
Paid-up Capital—
-43,155 Shares (£l2 10s. per
Share) .. . . .. . . 539,437 10
Reserve Fund .. •• • • 230,000 0
Perpetual Stocks —
Debenture Stock £983,547 0 0
Preferred Inscribed
Deposit Stock 889,419 0 0
Deferred Inscribed
Deposit Stock 734,000 0 0
2,606,966 0
Deposits at Interest. . . . . . 3,409,907 2
(Including Government Balances.)
'Current Accounts .. .. .. 2,571,676 0
Notes in Circulation . . . . 5,007 0
Bills Payable and other Liabilities. . 548,787 1
Profit and Loss—
Balance at Credit of this Account
0
0
0
4
8
0
8
114,973 19 6
ASSETS.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Cash and Bullion. . 1,320,953 19 2
Cash at Bankers and
at Short Notice 484,228 14 1
1,805,182 13 3
Investments.. .. .. .. 150,000 0 0
(British Government Securities.)
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit . . . . . . . . 1,577,015 14 10
Advances and Other Assets.. . . 6,175,081 11 11
After making provision for bad
debts and contingencies.
Security for Note Issue . . ■ . 24,513 18 3
(Colonial Government Securities.)
Bank Premises and Furniture .. 294,960 15 11
£10,026,754 14 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT,
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1912.
£ s. d.
To Expenses of Management in Lon-
don and Australia, including
Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
Note Tax, Income Tax, etc. . . 138,709 15 1
~ Reserve Fund . . . . . . 15,000 0 0
~ Balance . . • • • • 114,973 19 6
£268,683 14 7
£ s. d.
31,593 18 2
By Balance brought forward from
last year
~ Profit, after deducting interest
on Perpetual Stocks, together
with rebate on bills current,
and making provision for bad
debts and contingencies .. 237,089 16 5
£268,683 14 7
Deducting expenses of management, the profits for the year,
forward, as shown by the Profit and Loss Statement, amount to
and after providing for interest upon the Perpetual Stocks
and placing to the credit of Reserve Fund
there remains a credit balance of . .
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows: —
To Reserve Fund, additional, raising it to £250,000
To the payment of an 8 per cent. Dividend to the Shareholders, free
of" Income Tax i .. .. .. •• •• •• ••
To the purchase and cancellation of Deferred Inscribed Deposit Stock
in accordance with the Articles of Association
To the Officers’ Guarantee and Provident Fund
together with the
£99,041 17 11
15,000 0 0
£20,000 0 0
43,155 0 0
Balance brought
. £229,015 17 5
114,041 17 11
114,973 19 6
14,385
5,000
82,540 0 0
leaving a balance to be carried forward of.. •. . •• , y.. , •*, f 3 ?’* 3 5 * 9 w
The sum of £12,586 17s. 6d. set aside last year in accordance with the Articles of Association lias
been appropriated to the purchase of £14,000 Deferred Inscribed Deposit Stock, which has been cancelled
and the amount passed, as before, to the credit of Bank Premises.
O. J. HJiiGAN,
JAMES JACKSON, \ Directors.
W. G. ELDER,
J. PATERSON, Secretary.
I, "j- Dir
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We report to the Shareholders that we have obtained all the information and explanations we have
required, and that we have examined this Balance-Sheet and Profit and Loss Account, which we fin
framed in accordance with the Returns and Estimates of value received from Australia and the Books oi
the Bank in London ; and we are of opinion that, on the basis thereof, this Balance-Sheet is properp
drawn up, so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company s affairs, according
best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the Books of the Company.
TURQUAND, YOUNGS & CO.,
London, October 7, 1912.
Auditors.


Solomon
Solution
For Horses and Cattle
HEALS QUICKLY
"Yannathan, S. Gippsland.
“A fistulous swelling on my Horse
was reduced in about a week, after
using SOLOMON SOLUTION three
times only. A lot of discharge came
away and the wound healed quick-
ly. Now one cannot see it was
ever there.
“Since then I had a Cow badly
gored on the flank. In a few days
swelled about twice the size of a
man’s fist. I used SOLOMON
SOLUTION just twice and it healed
rapidly.”
(Signed) John MCKay.
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists, Stores
and Saddlers everywhere, or post free
for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne
L.R.W.
m
Fop Household
Use.—To use it is
the best, most simple
and most comfortable
way of ironing. Inde-
pendent of stove and
gas, it can be used any-
where. Non - inflam-
mable fuel without
noxious fumes. No
risk from fire;
healthier and safer
than any other iron.
For light work and
l travelling only. The
•’“DALLINETTE,” a
smaller “ Dalli.” For
general household
work use the “ Dalli.”
Women of all Nations use
ihtDalli
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by Anthony Hordern &■ Sons, Sydney.
F. Lasseter &■ Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Beware of worthless imitations.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING (IN INK)
by using your own Letter Paper,
Invoices, etc., with this Copying-
book. You simply insert your
Letter paper (as illustrated) then
write: and the act of writing pro-
duces a perfect letter and a per-
fect copy in the book. There is
no sign of your having taken a
Copy : no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either
200 letters size 10 by 8 in., or4oo
size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 re-
spectively, price SI- post free,
cash with order. Special Dainty
Octavo Book, making 200 copies, for 31- P. 0., or double capacity
for 913. Sample of the wonderful Zanetic Ink Paper -which
makes the copy. free, if stamped addressed envelope sent to
S.B.ZANETOC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
3LL3NV7
gfdgfdfdgfd
fdgfdgfdg fd
g
"COLCRYST
9 9 IS
USEFUL
fdg
fd
By purifying the blood, GOL.CRYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GOLCKVST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Free sample
sent by proprietors, Kocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTS W. A., Neale, Con-
stable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,”
Adelaide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney. [2
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Diflienlty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT A Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
T'HE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
1 HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6<l.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Holds the World’s Record for Largest Bonuses.
All participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department previous to 31st December next will share
All parucipau g p in the oagh Bonus for the current -"ear.
nacD itnnim divided for the year 1911. . . • • • £888,911
representing SB.» % of the total premiums received
l.i 3SSS&S
imsaiagf“ ta "
BICHARD TEECE.IfiV, F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary^
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Manufacturers
Take Your Pencil and Figure it Out
mm
'
am
vm
mrnm
Is Your NET PROFIT what it should be ?
YEARLY BUSINESS EXPENSE
Rent, per year ... £
Salaries of Employees £
Horses, Waggons and
Upkeep £
Insurance £
Light £
Heat £
Advertising £
Sundry Expenses ... £
Total Yearly Expenses £
Gross Amount of Busi-
ness for Year ... £
YEARLY VOLUME OF BUSINESS
Gross Percentage of
Profits £
Gross Profits £
Deduct Total Yearly...
Expense £
Net Profit £
This Net Profit is what you
should get.
If you are not getting it, then
losses are occurring in the hand-
ling of your money and accounts.
An improved National Cash Register will stop these losses and
enable you to get the profit from your business you should.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET THAT TELLS HOW.
The National Gash Register Co. of Australasia Ltd.
335 Pitt Street, Sydney
343 Queen Street, Brisbane
281 Murray Street, Perth
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide
Macquarie Street, Hobart
TO SAY THE LEAST, when the food particles
ZIZZZ are brushed from the
teeth their opportunity for mischief ends. But
that opportunity becomes slight indeed when the
teeth receive a regular antiseptic cleansing with
Sold by
local Chemists
and Stores.
mi
©
Made by
F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad lanks, etc,
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile-
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restore'
hearing no matter how old you are. No mystery of
secrecy about it \ we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them—the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason-, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds. , • , ~ a ■,
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
1 The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend - - -
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
le&st danger.
The price" is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. AVe do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
<?<?
w
00
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name *
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
M.B.FOSTERS
BUGLE
gfd
BRAND
Utm
CELEBRATED FOR ITS
CHAMPAGNE.
CONDITION and
BRILLIANCY.
HIMROD'S
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits ne
received from HIMROD S ASTHMA
POWDER, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever,
Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
I
ASTHMA POWDER,
ARE YOU A SUFFERER FROM
GOUT
or
Rheumatism?
Professor Berscham's Gout and Rheumatic
Cachets in boxes of I doz. 2S. 6d., 2 doz., 4s.
Incomparable, Alleviating and Harmless.
A trial box will prove efficacy. Posted to any
address in the Commonwealth.
Box No. 931, G.P.0., Melbourne. Vic.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
|*~“PERNIX” carbide.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.


Baby Dreadful Sufferer. Could Not
Keep Him from Scratching. Every
Joint Affected. Used CuticuraSoap
and Ointment and He Is Well,
"Enclosed find my son’s photo and I feel
by writing these few lines to you I am only
doing my duty, as my son was a dreadful
sufferer from eczema. At
the age of two weeks he
began to get covered with
red spots on his legs and
groins, which mother
thought was red gum or
thrush- but day by day
it grew worse until every
joint and crevice were
affected and baby started
screaming for hours day
and night, such a thing
as sleep was out of the
question. I took him to
two of Sydney’s leading doctors; one said it
was one of the worst cases he had seen, the
other did not think it so serious; one ordered
ointment for rubbing in, the other a dusting
powder. I followed their prescriptions for
over four months and still baby kept getting
worse. I could not keep him from scratching
so great was his agony.
“When he was five months old I tried the
Cuticura Remedies and I am very thankful to
say my baby is to-day free from all his suffer-
ing. His groins were bleeding when I started
and other parts affected were the lower part
of his body, under the knees, arms, in arm
joints, eyebrows and neck; but after twice
using Cuticura Ointment I began to see a
difference and by the time I had used one
tin, along with the bathing with Cuticura
Soap, baby was nearly cured. I still kept on
using the Cuticura Soap and Ointment, and
now, thank goodness, he is quite well and,
although he is now ten months old. has not
had any further return of the trouble."
(Signed) Mrs. G. Martin, 2 Knight St.,
Erskineville, Sydney, N.S.W., Mar. 31, 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world, but a liberal sample ot
Cuticura Ointment, with a 32-page book on
the care and treatment of the skin and hair
will be sent free on application to R. Town#
■k Co., Dept. 12K, Sydney, N. S.JW.
g
iS's
’W
An Interesting:
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, wherens the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
Is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
The Army of
Constipation
Is Growing Smaller Every Day.
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS are
responsible—they not
only give relief—
they permanently
cure Constipation.
Millions use
them for
Biliousness,
fdg
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Indigestion, Sick Headache, Sallow Skin,
SHALL PILL, SMALL DOSE, SMALL PRICE.
GENUINE must bear Signature
Marvellous
By Great German Scientist.
MO MORE DANGEROUS MOSQUITO BITES.
After one application of “MOSQUITOLINE” no mosquito or other insect will trouble you. Protected
by this wonderful liquid, you can even sleep in the open without a net. Mosquitoes will shun you as
you would shun the plague. Quite agreeable to human beings, but obnoxious to all insects.
THE DISCOVERY.
The world owes much to the
researches of that well-known
scientist —Dr. Gunther, who
has for many years labored
in Central Africa and India
in order to discover a potent
compound that will combat
the deadly Mosquito. At last
these years of effort have been
crowned with success, and he
has produced a very pungent,
although pleasant, liquid that
repels Mosquitoes and other
insects as though they had
been shot from a gun. This
liquid he has named “MOS-
QUITOLINE.” It is quite
harmless to human beings
and animals, but insects can-
not live near it.
FOE TO INSECTS.
MOSQUITOLINE not only re-
pels the attacks of mosqui-
toes, but gives absolute pro-
tection against stings and
bites of Wasps, Ants, Gnats,
Bugs, Fleas and Flies. After
one application you will be
completely immune from the
attention of these pests.
DR. PAUL GUNTHER
DANCER OF BITES.
It is common knowledge that
mosquitoes carry such death-
dealing germs as Malaria,
Marsh Fever and Ague, and
every*.time they bite there ia
the possibility of infection,
which may lead to serious
illness. MOSQUITOLINE will
protect - you from the ravages
;>f disease, even though you
sleep without nets in the
worst malarial districts.
LIFE WORTH LIVING.
With the discovery of MOS-
QUITOLINE, life is now pos-
sible in all parts of the
world where mosquitoes pre-
viously held complete sway.
One can now sleep in the
open without stuffy nets or
curtains, and during the day
attend to work —even though
the region is swarming with
insect life. MOSQUITOLINE
is positively invaluable where
insects have been wont to
make life unbearable.
HOW TO OBTAIN A SUPPLY.
MOSQUITOLINE is sold in bottles at 3/6 each, three bottles, fcr 9/6, or six bottles for 18/-,
nostao’e free and car. only be obtained from the Sole Agents it can not be obtained else-
where. Special rates will be quoted for Hospitals and Public Institutions. Send Postal Note for
supply required to
Frederick Bateman Company,
Desk 1, 107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
have a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very beat that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers,
THE
GIFT
TO
GIVE
SWA
SXfity
Choose a “Swan” Fount Pen for all your friends this Xmas. Choose a
“Swan” because of its usefulness, its perfect working and its long life.
Unlike most gifts, a “Swan” will be as good in years to come as it is when
new, and will always be an ever-present reminder of the giver.
Prices are the
usual Gift
prices.
Sold by All Stationers and Jewellers.
CATALOGUES SENT FREE.
MABIE, TODD CO., Manufacturers, London.
Australasian Branch (Wholesale only), J. A. BURKE,
15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
fd
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6.
gd
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
\
2V
Wicrr-. rOA
•*!'
ix
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
€J For use during illness and con-
valescence.
C[ For weakly and overgrowing
children.
€| As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
• r
•i• x •
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
Food I
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
BENGER’S POOD LTD., Otter Works, MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND.
Finger’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc. everywhere.
BIOSV
The Inky Way.
* * *
“ Old Bill” Warman. allegedly Australia’s most
patriarchal printer, died the other day. Of his 84
years he had spent 69 at the compositor’s case After
his apprenticeship Warman went to Melbourne
Argus, afterwards migrated to the Empire, and next
drifted to the goldfields, where he got into a strike
mess and occupied Darlinghurst for a week. Coming
out he went to the Sydney Herald, and stayed
under Fairfax for a time. That demoralised him,
and he took a pub ; but coming to himself again he
went to the Bananaland Government Printing Office,
and with one or two brief breaks, remained there
ever after, serving under every Government Prmtei
that Queensland has had.
• * * *
“Looking Backward”: “Oldest Inhabitant (B.
24/10’12) is right about Barrington having no claim
to the authorship of the prologue concerning the true
patriots who left their country for their country s
good. It is a question whether Barrington ever
wrote anything. It is probable that piratical pub-
lishers used his name for sensational stuff scrambled
together by ill-educated literary hacks. A Mel-
bourne collector has one specimen which, so far as
I know, is unique in Australia. It is entitled Bio-
graphical Annals of Suicide, or Horrors of Self
Murder, whether impelled by Love, Penury,
Depravity, Melancholy, Bigotry, Remorse or
J ealousy- calculated to deter even the most Wretched
from this Horrible Crime, and enable them to Bear
vvith Fortitude the Ills of This Life by a comparative
y-few of the Miseries of some of their Fellow Crea-
tures; by George Barrington.” This book sets forth
that “the Demon of Suicide has spread its baneful
contagion as far as the inhospitable shores of N
Holland.” The writer describes his love for Anaboo,
the daughter of Parronnan, “an inferior chief.
She saved his life when he was attacked by a wile
dog, but instantly “disappeared with incredible
swiftness.” Nevertheless she fell m _ love with a
newly-married convict. The latter remained true to his
wife and two children, and Anaboo, in despair, Anns
herself over a precipice. She pitched upon a -minted
projection and died in horrible agony. Barrington if
it was Barrington, draws a beautiful moral as to the
miserv which attends sinful love. Harking back to
the Prologue, Alfred Lee, who found the evidence
against Barrington in the shape of Susannah Watts s
collection, discovered also a slight clue to the per
petrator. In the margin of the page on which it
appeared was a note in pencil: By II. Carter. A
study of periodical literature of the day might
reveal something else written by this unknown
gentleman. I have sought, but have sought it vainly.
It is really worth looking for.
“Downward L.”: While we’re discussing short-
hand, I’d like to sidle in the remark that Pitmanites
are very bigoted. One system is as good as another
in the hands of a capable man. The Gregg system
is running Pitman pretty close in America. Sloan-
Duployan, Script, Taylor and Pearman are used by,
some of the best writers in the London courts, and
at Westminster. Pitman’s system, theoretically, very
frequently clashes, and even the most experienced
users of it have to be continually on their
guard A careful outline differentiation diametri-
cally opposed to the rules in the text-book, essen-
tial to accurate reporting at high speed. rheoreti
cally, both Taylor and Gurney are simpler than
Pitman; but in actual practice their devotees have
to bullock harder than Pitmanites to get the stuff
down ; once down, however, it is easily read. George
Walpole, official writer to the Central Criminal
Court, London, for many years a top-notch Pitman
writer, discarded that system/for one of his own,
whereby he links the principal vowels on to his
outline's without lifting the pen, so as to mnxe the
reading-over easier. One of the best wnteis x have
ever worked with is old “Dad Macartney, of Free-
man’s Journal (Dublin), who, m his youth, re-
ported Daniel O’Connell, so he is no chicken. He
was official writer to the Commission on Irish Rail-
ways, 1906-1909. I assisted him in Dublin, and
had many opportunities of observing what a skilful
and accurate note-taker he was; he wrote Haidings
system. The advantage of Pitman is that the notes
of expert writers can be read fluently and accurately
by any writer steeped in the system. Not one of the
note-takers on the House of Commons Committee
staff (and they are nearly all Pitmanites) reads his
own notes; each man has a reader. They get along
all right, though Parliamentary Committee work is
very fast.
* * * *
The endowed municipal newspaper is a fact at
Los Angeles. The Municipal News of that U.S.
city is a weekly, but hopes to become a daily. It
receives a yearly subsidy from the city of over
£7000. Its job is to give accurately the news
concerning the city’s business, and the arguments,
fairly and fully, of the contending sides. Each
political party polling three per cent, of the vote of
the city has the right to use one column in each
issue, free of charge, for the purpose of setting
forth its views on public questions. The governing
committee of each party selects its own editor, to
edit its column, and the matter he hands in for
publication is free from any censorship except that
such matter must be lawful for publication. The
mayor and any member of the council may each
have the use of half a column in any issue. The
paper is under the control of the Municipal News-
paper Commission, composed of three citizens, _ who
serve without pay. The commissioners are appointed
by the mayor and council. The ordinance creating
the newspaper was passed by a direct poll ot the
voters.
A PROSAIC IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A strike of musterers occurred recently during
shearing time on a Darling River station. The men
wanted 375. 6d. per week and keep, but the manager
refused the request, and informed them that if they
were not satisfied with 30s. per' week they could
hand their saddles in, which 15 promptly did.
—News item.
We’re tired of reading of romance,
And sweetly-lilted pomes,
Composed by bards who ne’er by chance
Forsake their cosy homes.
We’ve read of riders in the morn
Who race across the plains,
And put the flying birds to scorn
With loosely-dangling reins.
And we’ve been told in many a rhyme
How grand it is to ride
From break o’ day till blanket-time
Across the paddocks wide;
To watch the brown bush spiders spin
Their webs from bloom to bloom —
And we were told it were a sin
Unless we gave them room.
’Twas quite romantic, too, to swing
Amongst the sylvan elves;
To hark to Pan, and try to sing
His ragtime tune ourselves.
’Twas quite inspiring; yet, somehow,
No matter how we thrilled,
Our stomachs (be prosaic now!)
Were never really filled!
And now we’ve come to realise
That though they deck with gauds
The morn, the spiders, and the skies,
Those poet chaps are frauds.
The rising sun may be a joy,
The morning incense sweet
But, hang it! even beauties cloy
Unless they’re good to eat!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


Skin Deep Beanty.
12
11
\\\CERso4£
CROWN
10
s
It is not always the best looking watch
that gives the greatest satisfaction. A
smart looking case does not necessarily
mean Timekeeping Quality. Accuracy and
reliability of movement or works, and the
reputation of its makers should have first
consideration.
The discriminating buyer has a way of
looking deeper than the outward finish of a
watch. He is not misled merely by pretty
outward appearance.
Over 25,000,000 discriminating Buyers in
England, America, Canada, Germany,
and South Africa, and in almost all
parts of the Globe, have tried and tested
Ingersoll Watches
and have found them exactly as represented by the maters. The most
practical, economical and perfect watch that money will buy- Now, tor
the first time, we are able to offer Australia this wonderful scientific
production, so if you are ready for a cheap watch and believe that 6/6
entitles you to a reliable timekeeper, be sure to ask for an Ingersoll, ana
look for the name on dial, and guarantee in back of case. They are
there for YOUR protection.
CROWN 6/6, ECLIPSE 8/6, JUNIOR 10/6, MIDGET 10/6.
The jewelled Trenton Watches are as eminent in quality and economy as the
Ingersoll s and range in price from 30 1- upwards. If you cannot obtain an Ingersoll
ot Trenton Watch locally, do not accept a substitute, but write us for name of
nearest dealer.
aeaier.
ROBT. H. INGERSOLL & BRO., Makers,
73 LYork Street, SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A * PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
R-C-H “Twenty-Five”
EQUIPMENT.
WHEELBASE —110 inches.
MOTOR —Long-stroke ; 4 cylinders cast en bloc;
3£-ineh bore, 5-inch stroke. Two-bearing
crank shaft. Timing gears and valves en-
closed. Three-point suspension.
STEERING—RIGHT SIDE. Irreversible worm
gear, 16-inch steering wheel. Throttle con-
trol on stering column.
CONTROL—CENTRE LEVER operated through
H-plate, integral with universal joint hous-
ing just below. Hand-lever emergency
brake at driver’s left. Foot accelerator in
connection with hand throttle.
SPRING’S—Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full ellip-
tic and mounted on swivel seats.
FRAME-—Pressed steel channel.
AXLES —Front, I-beam, dropTforged; rear 1 ,
semi-floating type.
TRANSMISSION —3 speeds forward and reverse;
sliding gear, selective type.
CONSTRUCTION —Drop-forgings wherever prac-
ticable ; chrome nickel steel used throughout
all shafts and gears in the transmission and
.rear axle; high carbon manganese steel in
•' all parts requiring special stiffness.
BODY—FuII 5-passenger English type; extra
i ‘wide seats.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Non-Skid Tyres—32 x3| inch.
12-inch “Hall” Bullet electric headlights, double
parabolic lens.
6-inch “Hall” Bullet electric side lights, with
parabolic lens.
“Exide” 100 ampere-hour electric battery.
Bosch Magneto.
Warner Autometer.
Demountable Rims.
Extra rim and holders.
Tally-ho horn.
Jiffy curtains —Up or down instantaneously.
Top and top cover.
Windshield
Rear view mirror.
Tool-kit. jack, tyre repair kit, pump.
Robe rail.
2-Seater, £236
5-Seater, £295
ONE of the best proofs of R-C-H
value is the number of buyers
who heretofore have been
driving cars costing from to
And there’s a good reason for it.. You
get in the It-C-H the utmost in comfort,
in looks and in strength. You get power
sufficient to take you and your family
wherever you want to go, and faster
than you’ll ever want to drive. You get
an economy of operation impossible in
the high-priced car. You get complete
equipment of the best quality. And you
save from £lOO to £2OO.
The easiest way to prove these things
is to let us demonstrate the R-C-H to
you. We’ll do it whenever you’re ready.
And we’re perfectly willing to abide by
your judgment.
Correspondence invited from
responsible dealers in any
vacant territory.
R=C=H CORPORATION, Export Department,
170 LYCASTE STREET, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
CABLE ADRRESS : “ ROBCHCORP DETROITMICH.” CABLE CODES: Western Union, Lieber a,
A 1, and ABC 4th and sth editions, 2 in 1 code condenser.
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO., LTD.,
180-190 Exhibition St., Melbourne,
Agents for Australia and Tasmania.
BOWEN & TAYLOR, Ltd., 253-259 Elizabeth St., Sydney, Sub-agents for New South Wales.
FOSTER & WELLS, Davey St., Hobart, Sub-agents for Tasmania.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., Hay St., Perth, Sub-agents for West Australia.
At the Races.
Virginia
CIGARETTES
Favourites on the race course are often
disappointing, but the high distinctive
qualities of “ Winfred ”
Cigarettes make them the
never failing favourites
among the elite every-
where.
gfd
10
6d.
1 /-
Cigarettes are obtainable of all Leading
Tobacconists, Clubs, Hotels, Stores, etc.,
throughout New Zealand
Sole Manufacturers of Winfred
Cigarettes:
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.,
Britain's Greatest High-class
Cigarette Factory,
LONDON, Eng.
BRAINS!—BRAINS
We are not advertising Butchers’ Sundries, but refer specially to the
human commodity (which is sometimes conspicuous by its absence
when a deal of importance has to be considered). MARSHALL’S
STEAM ENGINES are so well and favorably known that
“ BRAINS ARE NOT REQUIRED
to select “THE WORLD’S BEST STEAM ENGINE.”
LIGHT AND HEAVY PATTERN TRACTIONS.
OIL TRACTORS, using Kerosene
or Benzine as fuel, and suitable
for general farm work.
MARSHALL’S PORTABLES, 2 to
40 h.p., 120 to ISO lb. working
pressure.
Horizontal FIXED ENGINE.
Also, VERTICAL, STATIONARY.
Vertical and Colonial Type
BOILERS, 2 to 12 h.p.
Very Easy Terms.
■Catalogues on Application.
M
COINING MONEY!
Positively the Quickest Money-maker on Earth is
THE “BIG CHIEF’’ OIL ENGINE
m
Starts instantaneously—Stops when re-
quired. No expense whatever when
engine is idle. What a contrast to or-
dinary “Farm horse” power. Don’t
forget, horses want feeding “all the
time.” Fitted with Wizard Magneto,
Extended Crank Shaft, Double Fly-
wheels. All latest up-to-date improve-
ments. Terms so easy that everyone
requiring power may become the owner
of a First-Class Engine in a few months.
Discount for Cash. Write for Cata-
logues. Best value in the world.
R. L.
SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney


GUN*S
of Quality
and Stability.
as
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS' “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar actiorl, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding looks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2§in. cartridges, weight from 7jlb. to 741 b. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol grip, walnut stock.
DELIVERED, *0 OCT.
m.
a ■
C. H. Crawford's D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-. or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about ;of 16-gauge, about 6ilb. ; M .
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED, QCim
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
All kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
g
fdg
fd
Send for our Price List of
Quns, Rifles and Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end ; weight-12-gauge, about 71b.; 16-gauge, about 6|lb. Delivered £3115/-
Wa
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. CUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FREE
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
The BEST HOUSE for all SHOOTING REQUISITES,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches:
City, Suburbs & Newcastle,
FARMERS AND SETTLERS. ARE YOU READY?
The Season is ciose at hand for a
RICH HARVEST! Get your harness
ready NOW to avoid LOSS by
DELAY in CARTING!
DEAL DIRECT WITH THE MAKERS
—and write TO-DAY for our new
Illustrated Book —
“ Everything for the Horse.”
Post Free from—
Edward Butler 8 Sons Limited
257 George Street, Sydney.
Also at
BRISBANE and WARWICK, QUEENSLAND.
i:
i
■ -
JUST WHAT YOD WANT.
BREECHINGS.
Black or Brown.
No. 1 30/-
Handsewn, 351-
No. 2 27/6
Handsewn, 32/6
(For heavy farm work.)
No. 3—Special Value
for light carting .. 20/-
SADDLES.
Black or Brown.
No. 4—A Quality .. 32/6
B Quality .. 351-
Nos. 5 i A Quality 27/6
and 6f B Quality .. 301-
No. 7—A Quality 20/-
B Quality .. 22/6
gfd
ELECTRIC
£££3o2
Beat“BULLS-EYE" ELECTRIC POCKET LAMP
wirit fatal unproved cell. PRICE 5/-, posf free anywhere. Press the
button and a hrillianrtighl fa immediately obtained. Fits hand and pocket.
Extra cells, 1/9; post free. Send postal note (mentioning this paper) to:
STAR NOVELTY C0.,229 Collins St.,Melbourne
GUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Galls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliotr. Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing- Chemist, ADELAIDE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOP/EDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners
that win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will
supply the art. It considers the whole subject from
the time you meet until you two are one. Valuable
chapters about dress, personal appearance and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of
curious love letters & FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits
in prose and poetry that you can find daily use for#
2/6 posted will bring the book, and incidentally, hap-
one y° u love * ANGLO-AMERICAN
PUB. CO., Waterloo Ch’mb’s, Geo-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Sd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llandybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, ll s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
gfd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR •• PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
IW BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted,., Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |SF~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the la
posted. Nkw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
Is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid’
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \est Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread. and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus. leather
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is ‘’d Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com!
plete), is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY


I-
A
v m
-
&
Miss Ivy
Schilling
Swears
by...
REXONA.
Amongst the most sensational star items ever seen on the Australian
stage are the aerobatic dances by Miss Ivy Schilling, including the
“Danse du Vaurien,” with Mr. Fred Leslie, in “Our Miss Gibbs’’: the
“Danse de Champagne,” with Mr. Leslie Holland, in “The Quaker Girl”;
also “Ju-no Kata,” with Mr. Fred Leslie, in the revival of “The Quaker
Girl,” now appearing at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney.
While touring with the “Jack and Jill” Pantomime, Miss Schilling
won the Maskelyne and Devant Prize for Beauty at Christchurch (N.Z.)
—a valuable gold watch and chain, which she wears daily.
Miss Ivy Schilling is the winner of West’s Pictures Surf Sirens’ Com-
petition, in which close on 100,000 votes were recorded. Her figure is a
perfect model of athletic symmetry and grace. To preserve its litheness,
its vigor and its strength, she uses REXONA.
This is what the admired acrobatic actress says:—
Theatre Royal, Sydney,
Manager, Rexona, Sydney. March 11, 1911.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in recommending your Rexona, for
I have been using it constantly for some time. As a rub-down after
acrobatic dancing, and as a magical reviver to strained muscles, I have
found it excellent. After surfing it is invaluable as a protection against
sunburn and freckles. It is a wonderful healer, and I always keep a tin
of it handy.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) IVY SCHILLING.
REXONA is a Reliable Remedy for all Eruptions and Irritations of the
Skin, Eczema, Pimples, Sores, Chilblains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, Scalds, Bad Legs, Stings of Insects, and all kinds of
Inflammation. REXONA is sold only in triangular pots at 1/6, and in
larger pots, containing nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-. All Chemists
and Stores will supply it, or it will be sent post free upon receipt of the
price upon application to “ REXONA,” Box 974, C.P.0., Sydney.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
DemonstratorAgentsWanted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating on ordinary-
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin. Alcohol, Benzine, I listillate, Naptha
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out-
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse Gears, Sizes 2-h.p. to ioo-h.p. One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE.
Write for our proposition to agents and users of power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
■
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills (Q. Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning *>/* Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY’S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago* sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy#
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Swearing Skipper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THROUGH the dark that wrapped the
city came the whistle of a train,
And' it sounded like a syren....l
could smell the salt again ;
And I saw the waters darken where the sun
had lately kist,
And I heard the dear old skipper swearing
softly in the mist —
“Bally barges!”
(And a barge slipped dowm beside us and
the skipper shook his fist.)
“Bally barges!” Nothing moving in the
words you’d think, and yet
In the wind across the house-roofs I could
feel my eyes grow wet,
And I seemed to see the rigging, sharp
against the mist and clear,
And the dear old swearing skipper—he’s
been dead this seven year—-
Bally barges!
(And the city stretched beneath me seemed
so infinitely drear.)
And I turned my # eyes unto the sea, and then
I turned away,
For I knew the ship I dreamed of wasn’t
lying in the bay,
And that whistle cut the silence, sharp and
resonant and clear....
And I felt the lift of waters, and a voice
said in my ear—
“Bally barges!”
(And.... 1 saw the swearing skipper who’s
been dead this seven year.)
VICTORIA.
PARTRICIA MURCHISON.
John Pascoe Fawkner.
A FOOTNOTE TO AUSTRALIAN HISTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE day is the 19th October, 1899. I
turn up in a thick volume the page
bearing the day and the month, and I
note at a glance all remarkable or sugges-
tive Australian happenings which have
fallen on this “notch in the year’s calendar
stick,” since Phillip landed his first precious
consignment. And a name once of weight
and always of interest projects itself from
the chronicle, and reminds me:—
On the 19th October, 1803, John Pascoe
Fawkner landed on the shores of Port
Phillip, a lad of 11 years of age; and on the
20th October, 1868, the 76th anniversary of
the birth of that singular being, I, a lad
of 13, was taken by my father “to pay my
respects” to him, at his residence in Colling-
wood, Melbourne. The old man was holding
a sort of levee; and was reminiscent to the
point of garrulity. The whole affair bored
me terribly. I was the only youngster in a
crowd of mature and grey-bearded men; and
my presence was a source of discomfort to
everyone in the room with one exception—
old Fawkner himself. For the old man was
the freest of free talkers. Life had for him
no secrets, and youth no reticence to be re-
spected or sensibilities to be shocked. Men
and women alike were to him nothing more
than women to Odo of Cluny: “sacks of
dung.”
With the narrow vision and uncompromis-
ing canon of youth, I could not see what
there was in that dreadful old vulgarian to
respect, still less to honor. History was a
matter of kings, and kings’ mistresses, and
battles, and difficult-to-remember dates. I
had no sense then that in that bent form,
spare of flesh in body and face, with longish
grey hair covered with velvet skull cap, with
cheeks and lips and brow of corrugated
parchment, there was a Maker of History.
“Come here, sonny,” he said, and pulled me
forward. “Governor Collins did that to me
the day I landed from the Calcutta —that
was 65 years yesterday.” There was life in
the old dog yet, and the pinch hurt. I didn’t
realise that that tweak on the ear links me
to the beginning of things Australian, for
was not Collins Phillips’s secretary, and was
present when Australia was born?
* * * *
And the tweak given, the remembrance of
Collins stirred up currents of such malo-
dorous recollections that some of the other
sinners present, case-hardened though they
were by “good stories” in military mess and
club smoking-room, blushed, I dare swear.
Could I have been hurried out of the room
without offence to the veteran, I should have
been given wings. But there was fire still
in the old man’s eye, and virility in his
curious croak, and besides an interruption
might have set him on some other track —on
the ancient Fawkner-Batman feud, for in-
stance. And the queer stories, and the
shrewd comments, and the bitter invectives
were to all his hearers but myself History—
and Life!
* * * *
Beyond the sentence above quoted, and
one other I remember nothing of the ipsis-
sima verba of the talk. But that Collins
was a vile man, and John Batman viler,
and Governor Arthur the vilest of all man-
kind, I remember distinctly. Joseph Tice
Gellibrand was also wicked, and so was sur-
veyor J. H. Wedge, In fact, anyone who
had come into personal conflict with Fawk-
ner was beyond redemption. Nevertheless,
the world was not all bad. He had good
words for Woodruffe, captain of the Cal-
cutta, Sir Alfred Stephen, and for the
Hentys. Yet I learnt in later years that
Sir Alfred’s two prominent measures, those
affecting the Van Diemen’s Land titles and
newspapers, had all but ruined Fawkner.
Twenty years after that day in ’6B, I
ascertained that a very full account of the
old man’s talk had been written out by my
father. From that MS., with an occasional
reference to other credited sources of infor-
mation, has been compiled the following
note. Something of the virus of Fawkner’s
hatreds has been extracted, and such of his
assertions as cannot be verified, or have not,
at least, a strong substratum of probability
are omitted. The residuum is both history
and matter for history, and only a small
portion of it is available in printed form.
Hence this article.
* * * *
The expedition which was to found the
new colony in the south of the continent
voyaged in two vessels —the Calcutta and the
Ocean. Boy as Fawkner was, his surround-
ings were such that the coarser facts of life
were forced into his knowledge on the
vnvave out. His father, mother, sister and
himself were on board the Calcutta-—a one-
time Indiaman of 1200 tons, which had been
bought by the Admiralty. On the same
vessel went the Governor and stall, includ-
ing the chaplain. “Fairly at sea, every
official, high and low,” said Fawkner, set
all morality at defiance.” Governor Collins
bad left a wife and daughters in England
when he went out with Phillip in _ 1788.
Going out in command in 1803, he did the
same thing —for better reason. He had a
“wife” and family in Sydney; and before
the Calcutta had lost sight of the white
cliffs he had pardoned a prisoner, and taken
the prisoner’s wife —one of 15 married
women who had permission to accompany
their convict husbands —to his embraces.
* * * *
The liaison lasted for some months after
the arrival of the expedition at the Derwent.
Collins, holding that Port Phillip was un-
suitable for the new colony, transferred
ships, men and stores to the site of Hobart
Town in 1804. Then another new charmer
captivated his Honor, and he returned his
erstwhile inamorata to her proper allegi-
ance. He had barely settled down to his
readjusted household arrangements, when
the lady whom Fawkner called his Sydney
“wife” sent him a present in the shape of a
son, aged 12, and a daughter, aged 10! For-
tunately she did not go herself. She had
solaced herself with Crossley, the notorious
convict solicitor —the gentleman who had
got into trouble through swearing that life
was in a certain testator’s body when, he
made his writ. So it was. A live fly had
been inserted in the mouth of the dead man,
while Crossley traced the dead man’s name
with the pen held in the dead fingers.^
Lieutenant Bowen, with a company from
Sydney, had founded the Derwent settle-
ment in August, 1803. As was characteris-
tic of the ruling powers that came out from
England in these days, he attached to his
company (and himself) a young woman,
the wife of a Sydney convict, but the daugh-
ter of a free settler. In a letter still extant,
his Honor Lieutenant-Governor Collins
complained to the Governor in Sydney of the
“ill example set by Lieutenant Bowen.”
Collins was a humorist. Fawkner knew of
Lieutenant Bowen’s affair, but did not
know of this letter —and it is a pity he did
not.
On the way out the Calcutta called at
Capetown, then in possession of the Dutch.
News of the outbreak of war reached the
authorities while the Calcutta was Avater- j
ing, and the Dutch “Admiral of the Port” j
called on the captain (Woodruffe) to sur-
render the vessel and crew. The ship had
originally been fitted with 50 guns, but these
were for the most part in the hold. Wood-
ruffe, with Cohins’s sanction, invited _ as
many of the male convicts as cared to join
in the defence of the ship, and sent a reply to
the Dutchman to “come and take the ship.”
The admiral did not accept the challenge,
giving as his reason that his country would
have to keep the prisoners, and he did not
wish to be overrun by English convicts.
“Bobby,” the captain of the expedition,
was not irreproachable, in his relations with
the weaker sex, and Fawkner stated the fact
with quite surprising emphasis. “Everybody
knew, even us younkers, that the Governor
made the parson take up with Mrs. P., and,
therefore, it was no use anyone grumbling
when he put the Avoman to hear the chil-
dren the catechism. A marine’s wife told
the woman she ‘could read her child the
Commandments as well as another Ayoman
who broke everyone of ’em herself,’ and
Mrs. P. did her best to get the marine court-
martialled. She failed in that, and then
one day, when the parson was sitting as a
magistrate, she laid a false charge against
the other woman. The parson had to dis-
miss it, and then Mrs. P. said right out
before everyone: ‘Oh, I suppose you want
her for your doxy, do you? Are you tired
of me?’ And the parson did not do more
than grin.”
“Collins was a d —d fool, and worse, I
heard my father,” so Fawkner continued,
“say that it was well known before the
landing took place that he would never stay
there, because he was to get 500 guineas
from the Ocean’s owners if he abandoned
the first place he stopped at. So he would
not give Port Phillip a fair trial. He would
not consent to have the country properly
examined for wood and water. He had to
bring timber for sawing 14 or 16 miles, and
to get water Ave had to sink casks perfor-
ated with holes into the sand just beyond
high-water mark, so the water we got was
brackish. A prisoner who had escaped re-
turned, and told the Governor that he had
discovered a river. This must have been the
Yarra. But Collins did no more than pun-
ish the man for bolting.
“No, Collins never intended to stay at the
first place. To gain delay, he sent a crew
in an open six-oared boat to examine the
Tamar River —Port Dalrymple it was
called —in the north of Tasmania. They
reported badly, and then Governor Collins
decided on the Derwent, and engaged the
Ocean at per month to take everybody and
everything across. Five months the ship
took to make two trips across Bass Straits.
* * * -K-
-“When Collins died, Lieutenant Lord, next
in command, locked Government Cottage
doors and allowed no one in except one or
two of his personal friends. He spent the
time in burning nearly all the Government
papers and records. A year or two later he
blossomed into a great landed proprietor.
He had dozens of Collins’s grants in his i
own name and the names of his immediate |
friends and creatures. There Avere no books
to show whether Collins had granted ’em or
not. The books had gone up in thick smoke
through the Cottage chimneys.” Fawkner
said “chim’leys.”
“What about Buckley? Well, he bolted
from us in 1803, and 32 years after the
great ruffian —he was always a savage—was
found with the blacks. He was a scoundrel.
A black named Durrinart was friendly with
one of my party in 1835, and told him that
a large number of the blacks were gathered
for the purpose of murdering all the whites.
Buckley said if he could he would spear
Durrinart for giving us the information.
* * * *
“But, I haven’t done with Collins. He
spent, or cost, the British Government for
that expedition at least £150,000, but he
could not found a settlement, but I founded
a colony without costing the Government
one penny. You Melbourne people have
(Continued on next page.)


RUNNING ULCERS
Whole Leg a Swollen Mass of Inflammation—Bedridden for Months
together—Hospital & every description of treatment completely fails
Zam-Buk effects the most Remarkable Triumph of
Skin-growing and Disease-dispelling ever recorded.
As a triumph of skin-healing and disease-
dispelling, the victory by Zam-Buk in the case of
Mrs. S. Clifford, of 67 Gold Street, Collingwood, Mel-
bourne, is without parallel. This lady
says“ While going upstairs I slipped
and scraped the skin off one of my legs. I
neglected to give the wound any special
attention, and simply hound it up, thinking
it would he all right; hut instead of getting
better, the leg gradually grew worse, and
at the end of three months it had developed
alarming symptoms. The wound dis-
charged and presented the appearance of a
running ulcer, the pain being almost un-
bearable. I thought blood-poisoning had
set in.
The climax came one night, when my leg got so
bad and presented such serious indications, that I
made up my mind to go into the hospital tht next
morning. I did so, and there I was a patient, un-
dergoing continuous treatment, for eighteen
months. The doctors scraped the bone in the leg,
and the agony afterwards was indescribable.
“ In the hospital the doctors applied hot fomen-
tations and ointments to draw out the inflammation and
reduce the fearful swelling; but their efforts were
powerless to do me any good. At last my leg got so bad
that I had to become a resident in the hospital, where
the doctors applied hot fomentations to the wound every
hour incessantly for two days.
“ Then the doctors resolved to graft some skin over
the wound. They did so, but the ‘ graft ’ remained on
only two or three days, when it came away and a fresh
wound broke out and formed an outlet near the ankle-
bone, increasing tenfold my already overflowing cup of
misery.
" I was an inmate of the hospital for a month. I then
left that institution for home, and thankful I was to do so.
• “A was in tlie de P ths of tlie direst despair when my mother happened to be talking to a
neighbor about me one day, and telling her how I was suffering. She immediately asked mother
if I had tried Zam Buk, and so great was her faith in it that she strongly advised mother to get
a supply, and let me try it on my leg.
“So mother, fortunately, followed her kindly advice, and procured a pot of Zam-Buk. I
applied a dressing, and under the wonderful influence of Zam-Buk the pain ceased almost im-
mediately, the inflammation and swelling subsided, and I could actually feel the soothing powers
of Zam-Buk at work. With a joyful heart I continued with the treatment of Zam-Buk, and applied a
dressing every two or three hours, each application bringing additional relief. After a week of
the wound on the ankle had healed completely.
“ wa s a harder fight with the larger wound, however, but I knew that my case was a bad
one, and I kept on and persevered with Zam-Buk. The big ulcerated hole began to contract, the
bottom of the wound looked healthier in every way, and at the end of six weeks Zam-Buk had
completed its miraculous work, and the wound was healed right up with clean, new, healthy skin.”
pp^
Wk
MRS. S. CLIFFORD.
u
NATURE’S OWN ANTISEPTIC . H£ Al^
It remained for Zam-
Buk to restore Mrs.
Clifford s diseased limb
to soundness and health.
Zam-Buk is a natural
skin healer and disease
dispeller. 1/6 and 3/0
per pot everywhere.
L-l.
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
7fo
",
m
m
m
S
IT
, -I
'Z'
,'^V
,\
f
/
- % :\
As a child Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy cured my coughs and colds
and I have always used it for my children. When Chamberlain’s Tablets
were placed on the market I felt confident that they would do all that was
claimed for them, for I knew that the manufacturers would not risk the
reputation of their Cough Remedy by putting out an inferior line. The
first time I had need of such a medicine I tried Chamberlain’s Tablets and
found them a perfect laxative. Since then I have used them for different
members of my family for indigestion, biliousness, constipation and sick
headache and have found them to be in every way just as good as
Chamberlain s Cough Remedy ; and I know of no higher praise to give
them than that. Chamberlain’s Tablets are a mild and gentle laxative and
we use nothing else in our family. I have found them to be quite as
safe and effective for children as for the grown up members of my family.”
Mrs. Mary Samurpson, Parramatta Rd., Leichhardt, N.S.W.
named your fashionable street after the
rogue who failed because he was a Gover-
nor ; but you are too damned ungrateful to
name one after me—who made the colony.”
I believe to this day, Fawkner’s name is un-
commemorated by any street in Melbourne
proper.
Then came the opening of the flood-gates.
The interminable Batinan-Fawkner contro-
versy as to who founded Victoria and Mel-
bourne once more lashed the old man into
rage.
“Batman stole his idea from me. It was
in March, 1835, I began to prepare to settle
Port Phillip, but I had gathered all the
explorers’ reports, from the men who used
to get mimosa bark at Western Port, from
sealers and whalers at Henty’s on the wes-
tern coast. I knew all that was to be
known. I ordered Underwood, my Launces-
ton broker, to get me a schooner to take a
party across, and all things for a new settle-
ment of free men, away from the hellish
despotism of Governor Arthur. J. A.
Brown, of Launceston, had a schooner trad-
ing between Launceston and Sydney. This
was the Enterprise of 55 tons, and t bought
her. But Brown’s Sydney agent had con-
tracted for coal trips between Newcastle
and Sydney, and I could not get possession
till July 18, 1835. And so Batman with
his party got off first in the Rebecca—and
took with him the rotten deed.” (This is the
famous “Dutigalla” treaty, prepared by J.
T. Gellibrand, ex-Attorney-General of
V.D.L. The original is in the Melbourne
Public Library, and a copy is in the Bri-
tish Museum. There is a curious history of
this document yet to be written.) “It was
as rotten as Batman himself.” (There is a
disagreeable story, unfortunately too well
authenticated, which will explain this allu-
sion ; Fawkner’s explanation was simply un-
quotable.) “He was to become the largest
landed proprietor in the world and to hold
a million acres.
“I got the Enterprise off by the 25th
July, thus loading and sailing down the
Tamar in a week. On the 27th I put out
from Georgetown, but had to put back owing
to foul weather in two days. I was too ill
to go on, and on 30th August I gave full in-
structions to Lancey, first and foremost of
which was to find a permanent river.
“My instructions were acted upon by
Lancey. After making Western Port they
stayed a short time, and left on the 14th
August. They entered Port Phillip on the
15th, and on the 28th they moored in the
Yarra. Batman’s representative, Wedge,
the surveyor, with a lie in his mouth, had
been trying for days to find our party, and
appeared on the scene with some of Bat-
man’s blacks several hours after Lancey,
carrying out his instructions, had marked
out 60 acres, or six lots of 10 acres each.
My party, I say, founded Melbourne, though
I did not get over first trip. Within a
month from the date of my landing I had a
four-roomed weather-boarded house built and
fitted up, and that was the first house fit to
be called a house in Port Phillip.”
* * * *
So Fawkner! And now from an unques-
tioned source the real reason why Fawkner
did not go by the Enterprise in her first
trip. The fact has never been published be-
fore. Fawkner was not the man to publish
it, nor was the gentleman who was the other
principal in the matter. Fawkner, great as
was his due of merit, ever claimed more
than his due, the other man ever less.
* * * *
It was bruited abroad in Launceston that
Fawkner, who had realised everything in
the shape of property that he could, did not
intend to return. He was leaving the town
heavily in debt, not merely for the expedi-
tion’s account, but with respect to previ-
ously-incurred liabilities. An association
consisting of six persons, of whom Fawkner
was chief, was responsible to Underwood for
the Enterprise. He had paid for stores in
part and his co-adventurers in part, but the
whole affair was a jumble of finance. Drop-
ping down the Tamar to the locality now
known as Stephenson’s Bend, the Enter-
prise anchored for a night. Here she was
boarded by a sheriff’s underling represent-
ing a whole group of creditors. There were
at first threats on Fawkner’s part of throw-
ing overboard, but Lancey, bluff but cool-
headed, pointed out that it was not certain
whether Governor Arthur’s authority aid not
cross Bass Straits, and whether the King’s
writ could not run to the proposed settle-
ment. Fawkner remarked that the people
in a place made the law, and if the King’s
writ ran in Port Phillip, it would only be
with the consent of the people there when
the settlement was established. Hunter, the
skipper of the schooner, then declined to up
anchor until the dispute was legally ended.
“He had to work within the law,” he said.
Fawkner then agreed to go to Launceston
and make adjustment of claims, but the only
adjustment he found possible was that the
vessel should not leave till he paid heavy
sums due, unless lie wanted to stay behind.
The former demand could not be met, so he
was perforce obliged to accept the latter.
He had, however, sent some horses to the
mouth of the Tamar, and desired to go down
with the vessel to see them shipped, and to
see her fairly away. Consent was not pro-
curable to the latter proposal until a bond
was entered into by Mr. John Cape, a well-
known merchant of Launceston and brother
of the distinguished schoolmaster William
Timothy Cape, for Mr. Fawkner’s return.
Mr. Cape, although not directly interested
in the adventure, was a creditor, but not a
pressing one, as he had faith in both Fawk-
ner and the scheme. Upon the Cape bond
the recalcitrants were temporarily satisfied.
* * * *
Fawkner, once at George Town, “forgot
the tenor of the bond.” At all events lie
said so later—he said he thought his pro-
mise, and therefore the essence of Mr. Cape’s
bond, was to return to Launceston from Port
Phillip by the return trip of the schooner.
But the fact is as stated, and proof is
afforded by the further fact that Captain
Lancey, on discovering, as he must have
done from Fawkner and from no one else,
the truth of the case, when the Enterprise
was already at sea for a day, insisted upon
the vessel’s return. Then eventuated Fawk-
ner’s most opportune sea-sickness.
Had Lancey and Hunter not been firm
and Cape generous somebody else would
have founded Melbourne and created the
“Empire of Victoria,” as old John Pascoe
Fawkner was not infrequently in the habit
of calling the province he helped to settle.
And had that somebody else been associated
with the ruling oligarchy in London, or Ho-
bart Town, or Sydney, as seemed at one
time imminent, Melbourne would have been
cursed for generations by being surrounded
by huge aggregations of estates virtually
controlled by one conscienceless corporation.
W.
Told at Vila.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
captain and I sat smoking together
I on the deck of his schooner, which
was lying at anchor in Port Vila.
The Capital city of the New Hebrides, with
its two stately stores, roofed with glittering
galvanised iron, and its hotel and its copra
sheds, stretched for many a dizzy yard along
the beach in front of us. Three figures,
dressed in white suits and wearing large
straw hats, moved slowly down the beach
from'the right, and disappeared in the door-
way of the principal store.
“The British section of the business popu-
lation of Vila is taking its forenoon drink,”
explained the captain. “The French crowd
patronises’ the hotel.”
A number of natives were carrying sacks
of copra to a launch that lay alongside the
rubble pier. Several passengers on board a
steamer that flew the house flag of Burns,
Philp and Co. stood with their heads rest-
ing on their arms, and their arms resting on
the steamer’s rail, gazing meditatively shore-
ward. It was a busy and animated scene.
I said so to the captain. He laughed and
remarked that 1 had come to Vila at a busy
time.
“There’s no life, no fun, in these cut-and-
dried hucksterers here. All the starch in’
them is in their collars. I’ve seen more real
fun in a little out-of-the-way port in New
Britain in one week than you’d see here in a
twelvemonth. But that was long ago. A
different sort of men have come down to the
Islands of late years. Well, every dog has
his day, they say. You see that topsail-
schooner lying over there?”
I nodded. ;
“She could tell you some curious yarns if
her old timbers could talk. I was mate of
her once. We were lying at Matupi, in
New Britain. Finlay, an old New Guinea
trader in pearl-shell, beche-de-mer and- —and
other things, was also there. He had sold
his own schooner to another trader, a Ger-
man, and intended to leave the Islands for
good and settle down in Australia as a Re-
spectable Family Man and Law Abiding
Citizen, and all that sort of holy mullock.
He was just about as fit for the part as a
turtle is for walking the tight-rope, but he
had paid for a passage with us, and we said
nothing to discourage him. Anyhow, as he
was worth about £3OOO besides what the
German gave him for the schooner he had
a right to please himself.”
“What sort of a man was he, Captain?”
“Tough, rough, nuggety sort of man with
a hairy chest, and a lot of good nature and
bad language. About 40 years of age, and
strong as a steam-winch. Before we left
Matupi he started on a spree with our Old
Man, Captain Reele, and a trader called
Thorsen, who was also a passenger. Finlay
said it was to be his last spree. It was,
too.”
The captain sighed, and opened a bottle
of lager;
“No reason why we shouldn’t have a
drink, however,” he remarked, filling a
couple of glasses.
“They drank night and day. Three such
champions at the game I never saw before,
and never hope to see again in these poor
temperance-ridden times. Finlay was a Won-
der, and Thorsen was a Terror; but our Old
Man could see them both under the table and
still come up smiling in a spotless white suit,
and with his hair nicely brushed, and his
beard trimmed. He was a picture to look
at —clean-built, six feet high, with a pro-
minent nose and large blue eyes. Just the
sort of man that some lady novelists I’ve
read would choose for a hero. A devil with
the women, too, I believe —white women. I
mean, of course. A white man doesn’t need
much beauty to be a Don Juan in the
Islands —if he likes to take risks.
“Thorsen was another splendid figure of a
mail. _ He was a Norwegian, and was one of
the picked crew that was sent to Chicago at
the time of the Exhibition, with the Viking
ship that was over a thousand years old. A
first-class seaman, and a beautiful performer
on the violin.
“One night I went down below and found
Finlay sitting on a locker with his face and
hands and shirt covered with blood. He had
fallen down and struck his head on the
corner of a box. Thorsen was lying under
the table, dead to the world. But the Old
Man was still sitting erect in his chair with
an empty glass in his hand, and a cold cigar
in his mouth. He was fast asleep. And all
the time the volcano that hangs over Matupi
was smoking like the mouth of . Hell. I
wasn’t very religious, but I can tell you it
made me think of the Last Judgment.
“There happened to be a doctor ashore at
Matupi, and he came aboard and stitched up
Finlay’s head, and told him if he wanted to
keep on drinking he would have to stop
living. Perhaps I’ve got it wrong, but it
sounded something like that. Finlay was
pretty scared, and said he would never touch
another drop. All the liquor on board was
finished, anyhow—as far as we knew at the
time. We made sail that day, and the Old
Man navigated the hooker like an angel.
Then, as bad luck would have it, one of the
hands found a cask of rum stowed away
under some of the cargo in the hold. The
Old Man and Thorsen started in drinking
a | ain - “d, though they tried to keep him
ott it, Finlay insisted on joining them. They
got worse than ever, and one night Thorsen
played the violin down to one string, like
1 aganim, and then said that nobody should
play on it again, and smashed it over Fin-
lay s head. We buried Finlay at Dobo, in
New Guinea. His money went to his rela-
tives in Australia. They sent for his re-
mains, and I had them dug up and brought
them back —packed in a gin-case.”
“And the others?”
“Captain Reele began to have bad luck,
aud lost billet after-billet. He died of drink
at feamarai. Thorsen is still pottering about
New Gumea in a little derelict schooner
like the ghost of the man lie used to be.
we must a U go some day.”
another bo?tt? r ' n ' ark ,hC CaPtai “ opeae ' i
V. J. D.


W estmg'house
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
gfd
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing wit: unre
vliable and inefficient vaporisers.
S~lt is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the' supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FCI,I, PARTICULARS FROM
The Westfnghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE- STREET, CONCOiiD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
The Experience of Half a Century
IS EMBODIED IN
Englebert’s Lubricating Oils.
Sole Agents—
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. LtT, 189 s c Y B r N e E "“ St
was
;
4ss
@8
If you require a
Simple, Economical,
Reliable and Moder-
ately-priced Car, it
will pay you to
investigate the
METZ 22-h.p.
Friction Drive,
4-cyl., Water-cooled
Roadster.
£175 Nett.
THE SiM PLE CAR
FOR THE COUNTRY .
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycles.
Twin-cyl., 7 h.p., Free Engine
Two-Speed Gear.
The Waver ley
THE DOCTOR'S
IDEAL CAR.
British built, 4-cyl.,
J2/J4 h.p., Bosch
Magneto, Zenith
Car b u retter, 9ft.
Wheel Base,
£330.
Sole Agents
-MOWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street,
SYDNEY. [2
write for full particulars to
E C O N O MY
TIERINC MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor —Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The “Goodail ” Machinery
The “All Cood” Machinery
There’s satisfaction in dealing with a firm that safeguards your interests like
we do.
We’ll please you so much on your first deal that permanent patronage is sure
to result. That’s what we want.
Now, what are your requirements? We can supply:—
CIRCULAR SAWS
BAND SAWS
LOG BAND MILLS
SPINDLE MOULDERS
TENONERS
DOVE TAILERS
SANDERS
HIGH SPEED LATHES
DRILLING MACHINES
HACK SAW MACHINES
SHAPING MACHINES
PUNCHING MACHINES
SHEARING MACHINES
BLOWERS
MORSE TWIST DRILLS
MILLING CUTTERS
GEAR CUTTERS
REAMERS
SLOTTING CUTTERS
TAPS AND DIES
You’ll like our methods. Why not get acquainted with them this week?
Payments by Cash or Terms.
T. M. GOODALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
QMiyMl
-
» . *
1
•• ;*'Ai/ #
Q3OVON3
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
* FRED. McWILLIAM. Manager
g
81
Mu:*
SYD
RICHMOND
'm
YORK
£
KENT
DOVER
BUTE
The
COMPLETE
Rexophone
Catalogue
Fully describes these and other Models
Ask for a Copy. We post it FREE
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
DEPT. B, DRUITT STREET. SYDNEY.
I
3 Sets Bell-Metal. Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
MUSiC, as you like it,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
fdg
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 1
Complete colorec
11 6, 15/6, 27 6, 37/6.
illustrated Catalogue Free.
ALLAN & CO. p "» U, L
SOLE AGENTS
276-8 Collin# St., Melboume. Bendigo and Geelong


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MAChT LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. fin and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC MOTORS
for MINES, FACTORIES and PRINTING WORKS.
CHEAPEST POWER SYSTEM KNOWN.
Full particulars on application to Australian Agency:
K.
37-43 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
[6
Fireproof Buildings of
I 1 lbro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitabie for Dwe.h„ gS) Theatre,, Ha..,,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is l.w ‘ v , . .
three-fourths the quid’? I. ~o nl- v r^"\ re about
v.. ~h. antll J 0f studding and labor for a
Trvw lm b “ ,ld "*KofFibro. C ement.
„.. L r° K AT ™E saving that is made.
i <ro f is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Ashes* os.
F,RE ' HEAT » ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plas er.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole Importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
** TANGYE ”
Portable Type Oil Engine.
I
cl =
“TANQYE ”
Suction Gas Producer Plant
’I
m
SH*
EM
■ ■
Smm
** CLAYTON and
SHUTTLEWORTH "
Portable Steam Engine.
DALGETY’S
Machinery Department
SYDNEY: Miller’s Point
MELBOURNE : a’Beckett Street
and at
BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON,
TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE
and FREMANTLE.
i<
Oil and Benzine Engines, Gas
Engines and Suction Gas Plants,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Irrrga-
tfOfl Plants and PUMPS of all descriptions.
GAN E
M
MILKING MACHINES. All the
leading Dairvfarmers are installing
the “ GANE.” It is a highly fin-
ished machine wonderful Labor Savor.
“CLAYTON g SHUTTLEWORTH”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines,
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps, etc.
THE
HE
MACHINES
tt^ s I
LTD
k
CO
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMERICAN High Duty
Lathes.
Tool Room Lathes.
Geared Head Lathes.
Upright Radia! & Sensi-
tive Drilling Machines)
Planers, Shapers.
MILWAUKEE Millers.
fdg
df
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR
GARAGES OR
EQUIPMENTS FOR
SHOPS.
aK’t:
J -1r*> -
1 m
3$
■v
■ ’ r'
aMMg[
' V * ‘ t''
•51
W
■ . ''
5 M
?*Y»
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores, Farms and'townships,
Tb« “PE LAITTE”
AIR-<SAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest IHuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE,
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railwav
Commissioners of N.S.W. and Victoria. Thousands
jdready in use in Country Uouses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating:.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large
Machines supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Aoetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
i
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd .
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFRTH
St. George’s Terrace, * *'*'***•
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
Country House and Station
Electric Lighting
Plants.
-Shearing
Sheer merit, economical upkeep and fine cutting qualities
have won for the “Lister” top place among Sheep Shearing
Machines.
It is now generally recognised as the Best Machine on the
Market.
But to be convinced you must know more about it. Write
for Catalogue. All parts interchangeable with the Wolseley.
Agents
DAfiOAR GEDVE &C?sydmiy
«SF
VoMmug
pfRENCH’s
it pATEHr .
PROCESS
H
m
f /•
m
j
m
•'S
£ w
-•-
RABBIT DESTRUCTION by Ffrench’s Patent Process
Is an undoubted success, and is adopted by the leading
squatting companies and squatters;
Is especially successful on river banks.
Kills to furthest dead-end.
FUMES FIVE TIMES HEAVIER THAN AIR-^ I
Write for full particulars to SOLE MANUFACTURERS-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD
City Office : Equitable Building. Sydney.
Works : 10 George Street, Camperdown.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
