

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R. G. &Z CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
The DISCRIMINATING WORKING MAN
who would have a truly helpful loan to tide him over his present financial embarrassment, is assured of the lowest interest in
Australia, and the easiest of the easy terms when he seeks our aid. Our reputation for straightforward, above-board tran-
sactions to large and small borrowers is known everywhere. We lend from £5 upon Furniture (without removal), Jewellery,
Deeds of Land, Interests under Wills, etc., promptly.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. 81. Co. Limited Heal off &Jt L a ?,'i r f a «i5!J“L 74 ' Sy<l " ey
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
155 George Street West, Sydney
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
u
KJ
lams S,™!Whisky
HOBA.R.T,
—-
[jadleys Qrient jjote!.
PIO N E E ”D
LEATHER BELTING *V
GUAUAN.TKKD
J. C. Ludowici & Son , Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
—=>\
Take it back,"
I must have—
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
i
hgf
FIRE
RESISTING
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
Ji
HANSENS
h
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
With
PALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
TH E SILVE R TO W N RUB B E R C 27 9 Geo r g e Street, Syd ne y.
f
fgh
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY
■ • :
--ir"
is
v./ : ; . . .. ■ ■.' •: ',.' : ,
. V ' V- '• ' ' :tr\« >' t■ • »«‘
WHITE MALTHOID.
Asbestos Coated (Pabco).
WHITE MALTHOJD stands unrivalled for artistic
effect. It harmonises with the most artistic architectural
designing, as will be seen in the present illustration.
The natural ivory tint is very effective, but, to suit
individual tastes, it may be tinted green or terra-cotta.
WHITE MAI/niOID, while reducing materially the
Summer temperature, is yet cosy and warm to live under
in Winter, being absolutely wind and weatherproof.
TH 1C I’AHA'FKINE PAINT 00., CHALLIS HOUSE, MAKTIX PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
fgh
s .v. o.
Moved to
352 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. have removed to 352 Kent Street (near
King Street), Sydney.
The premises are more commodious and central, making
it easier to cope with the steady increase of business.
jMaflMuei l ' l
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT STREET
(near King Street), SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA
H ELI DON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., SvHnnv, and Hedfern
The Bulletin
Vol. 33.—N0. 1709.]
[Thursday, November 14, 1912.
■Rpo-isteied at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE AUSTRALIAN BOOK-BUYER.
A Monthly Journal of Book News and Reviews.
With Bright, Chatty Notes on the Books of the Month • , , ,
throughout, including many Photographs of Favorite Writers Rooks and Authors. Illustrated
ISSUED MONTHLY- SENT POST FHFF iik
Ckrishaas Issue sent free to any address as SpecimJncZT
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD . 238 Pi„ streot , Syd „„ y
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
C. The Bron-
chial Tubes
of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of
one of the
Lungs
fit
CAUTION.—The large sale for
“Eumenthol JUJUBES” has led to a
number of imitations being manufac-
tured under the name of menthol and
other jujubes. It is important, there-
fore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes,
■ and be told they are “just as good” as
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This
proves that these imitations and sub-
stitutes have no reputation of their
own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes.,
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins 1/6.
Hewlett
The Red Page
The manner is still the dignity of
the writing, the Meredittnan pose, but Mau-
rice Hewlett, in his latest novel, Mrs. Lance-
lot (Macmillan), is undeniably getting
middle-aged. He still retains his romantic
attitude toward woman; he can still wor-
ship on his knees ; but beside such a living-
woman as the Marjorie of 11. G. Wells,
Mrs. Lancelot seems a pale abstraction,
strangely strayed from Open Country. The
robust, passionate women he can pictur-
esquely draw, but apparently he has out-
grown his medievalism, and now we have
his cold analysis of more modern passion*-
less ladies. The story introduces us to a
cold fish, the husband of Mrs. Lancelot,
whose ambitions lead him to countenance
the conquest his wife makes of a great duke,
apparently drawn from the Duke of Welling-
ton —the plot is laid in the time of the
Reform Bill in England. The husband prac-
tically sells, her beauty to the duke in re-
turn for political office; but the main
assumption, and rather an incredible one,
Hewlett makes in this “comedy of assump-
tions” is that the duke respected the chas-
tity of liis Egeria; and that, in fact, the
notorious connection, flaunted in the face of
the public, between the duke and the lady
was innocent. It is true that the duke tried
to make it otherwise ; but Mrs. Lancelot’s
innocence disarmed her , gross lover. Indeed,
when an impetuous poet cast eyes on the
lady, and won her love with a swift Hewlet-
tian ardor, the duke himself, seeing no chance
of his own success, helped the lover to his
feast. The husband, in this strange quar-
tette, is pictured for us as revering his curi-
ous benefactor, the duke, and learning, in
his cold-blooded way, to love his lost lady.
All very clever and strange, but built on
assumptions that hardly convince. Yet Hew-
lett tries hard to beguile us, and almost
beguiles. Thus, lie tells us of his duke: —■
He was a joyless man as well as a grief-
less man—bleakly in the mean; a cold-
blooded man; with sentiment instead of
emotion, and appetite instead of pas-
sion. ...A strange personality—as strange,
as any other human crea-
ture in this world, but no stranger. If one
single man among the millions of us knew
in and out one single other man, he would
find that he was not the unique phenomenon
he had always supposed himselL We are
all odd fishes, I believe; and that’s why we
shall never be Socialists. Our nature is in
the way.
And the husband is Similarly apologised
for:—-
He was a morbid man, a sensitive man,
but a _ just one. He could not deny to
himself that he had desired this friendship,
and had done his best to procure it—for his
own ends. He had hoped that Georgiana
would attract the duke, had invited it. Now
that it was done, how could he, in common
justice, blame her or her lover? He knew
that he could not. Lover as he was, he
must go on loving, and see his beloved give
herself to his patron. He could be nothing
but agonised—but he could not cease loving
either of the guilty ones He had been
betrayed by the two persons whom he loved
best in the world—and yet he went on loving
them both. Was ever such a position held
by a man of honor before?
And if you want Charles “to the life,” so
Hewlett assumes, hear the duke’s opinion
of him : :
“lie’ll never talk, for fear of letting him-
self know wliat he thinks of himself.”
And, to show the absolute cleavage there
exists between two foremost novelists like
Wells and Hewlett, let us consider their re-
spective attitudes toward the sexes. W T e
know, from Marriage, that Wells believes
that the woman demands too much of the
man; but from the mouth of Hewlett’s
second self, the romantic poet of this tale,
we have the direct negative:—
“Pray, is a career the prerogative of the
male? May it not be that your business
should be to serve her, rather? Not only is
it possible, but I tell you that it is certain.
She has the plain right to be served by any
man who has the grace to see that she is a
vase of piety, a fountain of honor and truth.
....You are a woman-user What busi-
ness had you to be dull with so lovely a
being at your side? You love! Do you
know what love is? Do you know that it is
a high ecstasy of wonder and service?”
So it is no wonder that the book ends
with the lover’s great cry: “By God, by
God, my Saint, I shall love you on my
knees!”
There you have the romantic attitude in
fiction—a little out-of-date, is it not? But
Hewlett is Hewlett—a feast of fine writing,
but, alack, with the fiery inspiration, the
impetuous elan, a little sobered by middle-
age.
♦*- :
Of immediate interest to Australasians in
the September number of The Round Table,
the quarterly half-crown Imperial review, are
the articles dealing with the necessity for
an understanding on the part of Britain
ihat the enemy of Australia is not Germany,
but Japan, and pointing out that the
acquirement by Germany of colonies would
act as a safety-valve to the otherwise in-
evitable British-German tension. Other
valuable articles deal with the Labor move-
nent in Australia, Closer Relations Between
Maoriland and the Commonwealth, and the
position of India and the Empire. For an
authoritative summing up of the questions
agitating the Empire The Round Table is
to be commended.
Everywoman, According to Wells
In Marriage, 11. G. Wells puts Woman
into lier pigeonhole, first in a men’s discus-
sion, then the wife to her husband, and
finally the husband to his wife: —
“Women,” Sir Roderick Dover said, “are
inferior.... to begin with, they're several
inches shorter, ' several pounds lighter;
they’ve less physical strength in' foot-
pounds.”
“More endurance,” said Buzard.
“Less sensitiveness merely. All those are
demonstrable things—amenable to figures
and apparatus. Then they stand nervous
tensions worse, the breakimr-point comes
sooner. They have weaker inhibitions, and
inhibition is the test of a creature’s position
in the mental scale.”
Buzard glanced at their moral qualities.
“More moral 1” cried Dover, “more self-
restraint ! Not a bit of iff! Their desires
and passions are weaker even than their
controls; that’s all. Weaken restraints), and
they show their quality. A drunken woman
is far worse than a drunken man. And as
for their biological significance”-
“They are the species,” said Buzard, “and
we are the accidents.”
“They are the stolon and we are the
individualised branches. They are the stem
and we are the fruits. Surely it’s better to
exist than just transmit existence. And
that’s a woman’s business, though we’ve
fooled and petted most of ’em into forget-
ting it.”
He proceeded to an attack on the intel-
lectual quality of woman. He scoffed at the
woman artist, at feminine research, at what
he called the joke of feminine philosophy.
“It isn’t a matter of education or oppor-
tunity, or simply that they’re of inferior
capacity; it lies deeper than that. They
don’t want to do these things. Thev’re
different.”
“Precisely,” ejaculated Buzard, as if he
claimed a score.
“They don’t care for these things. They
don’t care for art or philosophy, or litera-
ture or anything except the things that touch
them directly. That’s their peculiar differ-
ence. Hunger they understand, and com-
fort, and personal vanity and desire, furs
and chocolate and husbands, and the ex-
treme importance conferred upon them by
haying babies at infrequent intervals. But
philosophy or beauty for its own sake, or
dreams! Lord! no! The Mahometans
know they haven’t souls, and they say it.
We know, and keep it up that they have. . . .
No woman ever painted for the love of
painting, or sang for the sounds she made,
or philosophised for the sake of wisdom as
men do”
Buzard intervened with instances. “Madame
Curie,” clamored Buzard.
“There was Curie,” said Dover. “No
woman alone has done such things. I don’t
say women aren’t clever,” he insisted.
“They’re too clever. Give them a man’s
track or a man’s intention, marked and de-
fined, they’ll ape him to the lifd”
Buzard renewed his protests, and was un-
derstood to say that women had to care for
something greater titan art or philosophy.
They were custodians of life, the future of
the race— —• ,
"And tliaffs my crowning disappoint-
ment,” . cried _ Dover. “If there was one
thing in which you might think women
would show a sense of some divine nurpose
in life, it is in the matter off children—and
they show about as much care in That
matter, oh!—as rabbits. Yes, rabbits!
Look at the things a nice girl will marry !
Look at the men’s children she will consent
to bring into the world. Cheerfully!
Proudly! For the sake of the home and the
clothes. Nasty little beasts they’ll breed
without turning a hair. All about us we
see girls and women marrying ugly men,
dull and stupid men, ill-tempered, dyspep-
tic wrecks, sickly young fools, human rats !”
. “If ever we get a decent care for Eugenics
it will come from men.” said a white-faced
little man beside Trafford, in the confiden-
tial tone of one who tells a secret....
“Don’t w-e know,” Dover said, “we’ve got
to manage and control ’em —-just as we’ve
got to keep ’em and stand the racket of their
misbehavior? Doesn’t something tell us all
that if we let a woman loose with our
honor and trust, some other man will get
hold of. her? We’ve tried it long enough
now, this theory that a. woman’s a partner
and an equal; and does it work ? A woman’s
a prize, a possession, a responsibility, some-
thing to take care of and be careful about.
....You advanced chaps seem to want to
have the women take care of you. You
seem always to want to force decisions on
them, make them. answerable for things that
you ought to decide and answer f0r....8ut
they’re not helps—that’s a dream—they’re’
distractions, gratifications, anxieties, dan-
gers, undertakings ”
Buzard got in his one effective blow at
tins point. “That’s why you’ve never mar-
ried. Sir Roderick?” he threw out.
m man was checked for a moment.
I r afford wondered what memory lit that
instant s pause. “I’ve had my science,”
said Dover.
The wife to her husband '
“What are we women—half savages, half
pets, unemployed things of greed and desire
and suddenly we want all the rights and
respect of 50u15!....1t isn’t that we can
make you or guide you—l’m not pretending
to be an inspiration—but—but we can re-
lease you. We needn’t press upon you: we
can save you from the instincts and pas-
sions that try to waste you altogether on us.
....Were the responsible sex. And we’ve
forgotten it. We think we’ve done a won-
dei it we ve borne men into the world and
smiled a little, but indeed we’ve cot to bear
them all our lives. A woman has to be
steadier than a man and more self-sacrifi-
cing than a man, because when she plunges
she does more harm than a man. And what
does she achieve if she does plunge? No-
thing—nothing worth counting. Dresses
and carpets and hangings and pjfetty ar-
rangements, excitements and satisfactions
and competition and more excitements. We
can’t do things. We don’t bring things off!
And you, you Monster, you Dream! You
want to stick your hand out of all that is
and make something that isn’t, begin to be!
That’s the man....l’ve found my place.
I’ve been making my master my servant.
We women —we’ve been looting all the good
things in the world and helping nothing.
I’ve been making you fetch and carry for
me, love me, dress me, keep me and my
children, minister to my vanities and
greeds.”
J*
And the husband :
“And the women—dressing ! Perpetually
dressing. You, Marjorie—you’ve done no-
thing but dress since we married. No, let
me abuse you, dear ! You dress your minds
a little to talk amusingly, you spread your
minds out to backgrounds, to households,
picturesque and delightful gardens, nurser-
ies. Think of our tremendously cherished
and educated children! And when they
grow up, what have we got for them ? A feast
of futility... .And we’ve got to stop this
Jackdaw buying of yours, my dear, which is
the essence of all that is wrong with the
world, this snatching at everything, which
loses everything worth having in life....
You’re going to be a non-shopping woman
now. You’ve to come out of Bond-street,
you and your kind, like Israel leaving the
Egyptian flesh-pots.”
The Human Machine
A useful description of the working of the
machinery that we call our bodies is given
by Arthur Keith in The Human Body (The
Home University Library, Williams and
Norgate, Is.)- Man is one of the three
families of that group of mammals termed
the higher primates. The central family is
represented by the great anthropoids ; man
on the one 'side and the gibbon on the other
represent the two other families. All three
families arose from a common ancestral
Stock; but while the gibbon has clung to the
ancestral form, man lias progressively and
aberrantly evolved into his present position.
The great anthropoids, represented by the
gorilla, have kept in the middle course, and
with their coming extinction there will be
a wide gap between us and our nearest liv-
ing allies. The only two mammals that carry
their bodies in a peculiar way both reside in
Australia: the kangaroo and man. The
author shows the magnitude of the changes
implied by this remarkable manner of walk-
ing, which involved a complete revolution
in the organisation of the body. “There is
not a bone, muscle, joint or organ in the
whole human body but must have undergone
a change during the evolution of our pos-
ture.”
Some curious facts are brought to our
attention in this well-written book. Thus,
the face, from an anatomist’s point of view,
is realty part of the apparatus of mastica-
tion. It is an acddent, as it were, that the face
has to accommodate the eyes and the nose.
The facial part of the head is a bony scaf-
folding for the upper and lower jaw, on
which the teeth are set. .. .Legislation in
favor of woman can give the sexes equal op-
portunities of life, but it cannot blot out the
structural differences between man and
woman, for these have taken geological
epochs to produce. There is no possibility
of civilisation in time producing a structural
equality in the two sexes. . . .But for the dis-
covery of America and Australia the long-
headed type of skull (common to the Eng-
lishman), as opposed to the round-headed
type that prevails in Europe, would have
been but sparsely represented in the modern
world. The long-headed type of skull is the
most ancient. . . .With reference to color of
skiu, the evidence points to the stock from
which human races have arisen as having
brown pigmented skins —practically the
color of the Australian aborigines. These
have so many primitive features in the struc-
ture of their bodies that it is also possible
that their skin-color is likewise primitive.
The very black African and the very fair
European races may represent comparatively
recent products in the evolution of modern
races.... The long fingers and slender hand,
so prized as aristocratic, are really a rever-
sion to the hand of the gibbon... .And so on.
The author has some strong words to say
about the physical culture gentlemen who
aim at producing a voluminous chest and a
Herculean musculature. Such an over-de-
velopment, he says, is always bought at a
price. “The lungs are really delicate and
complex structures, and the fact cannot be
over-emphasised that they can be injured by
over-expansion quite as readily as by com-
pression of the chest. So far as concerns
the form of the chest, our ideal must not be
the prominent expanded type so often por-
trayed on the posters of the professors of
physical culture.”
The book is a plainly-written history of
the development of the machine about which
the average man knows practically less than
he does about a bicycle.
4.
A quite ladylike novel is Blinds Down
(Bell, per Sydney Book Club), by Horace
A. Vachell, author of The Hill. There is
nothing to offend the flapper in this quiet
chronicle of a dull English town; and the
symbolism of the house which always kept
its blinds down on the side that looked on a
slum is obvious to the most feminine intel-
ligence. The story of the mother whose
education in this genteel house led her to
wreck her life is paralleled by the story of
her daughter, similarly educated, but saved
by her mother’s experience from her mother’s
mistake; but the analogy is so close that
there is little interest in the end of the tale.
Just the sort of .anaemic, worthy novel that is
ordered in immense quantities by the cir-
culating libraries.
More Verses by James Stephens
Wind and Tree.
A woman is a branchy tree
And man d singing wind,
And from her branches carelessly
He takes wliat he can find:
Then man and wind go far away
While winter comes with loneliness
With cold and rain and slow decay ’
On woman and on tree till they
Droop down unto the ground and be
A withered woman, a withered tree ■
While wind and man woo undismayed
Another tree, another maid.
Mac Diioefl.
I saw them, all,
I could have laughed out loud
To see them at their capers;
That serious, solenimfooted, weiylity
crowd J
Of angels, or say resurrected drapers:
Mach with a, thin flame swinging round his
head.
With lilting wings and eyes of holy dread
And curving ears strained for the great
foot-fall,
And 'not a thought of sin.. ..
I don't know how I kept the laughter in.
For I was there,
Unknown, unguessed at, snug
In a rose-tree's branchy spurt,
With two weeks' tvliisker blackening lua
to lug, J
With tattered breeks and only-half a shirt
Swollen • fit to burst with laughter at the
sight
Of those dull angels drooping left and
right
Along the towering throne, each in a scare
To hear Ills foot advance
Huge from the cloud behind, all in a
trance.
And suddenly,
As silent as a ghost,
I jumped out from the bush,
Went scooting through the glaring, nerve-
less host .
All petrified, all gaping in a hush:
Game to the throne and, nimble as a rat.
Hopped up it, squatted close, and there I
sat,
Squirming with, laughter till I had to cm,
To see Him standing there
Frozen with all His angels in a stare!
He raised His hand.
His hand! 'Tints like a sky!
Gripped me in half a finger,
Flipped me round and sent me spinning
high
Through the hot planets: faith, I didn't
linger
To scratch myself, and then adown I sped
Scraping old moons and twisting heels and
head
A chuckle in the void till.. . .here I stand
As naked as a brick,
I’ll sing the Peeler and the Goat in half a
tick.
Nora Criona.
I have looked him round and looked him
through, • '
Know everything that he will do
In such a case, and such a case.
And when a frown comes on his face
I dream of it, and when a smile
I trace its sources in a while.
He cannot do a thing but I
Peep and find the reason why,
Because I love him, and I seek,
Every evening in the week,
To peep behind his frowning eye
With little query, little pry.
A nd make him, if a woman can,
Happier than any man.
Yesterday he gripped her tight,.
And cut her throat —and serve her right!
From “The Hill of Vision,” by James
Stephens (Maunsel, Dublin).
♦
Designed and executed in Australia, the
pouter calendars for ly.Us—six character-
istic boater drawings of Australian types,
ranging from an Australian native bear
(who turns out to bA i youthful black gin,
suitably unclothed) to a fine drawing of a
shearer, should have a good sale. They are
obtainable at Dymock’s, Sydney (Is. eachl


nee
m.
m
m
&
•9,
r
3
a
c
t
o
551
ll'n
IN'
4580
256
355
Anthony Horderns’
for EVERYTHING.
THE reason for the popularity of ANTHONY
HORDERN S’ NEW PALACE EMPORIUM is
not far to seek. Gathered in the Fifty De-
partments under one roof are the fruits of Forest
and Farm, Mine and Mill, all converted into forms
of use and beauty by the labor and genius of man.
The world has been searched for all that ministers
to the physical and mental uplift of society, and,
far and away the best value in the land is assured by
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Departmental PRICE
LISTS place the vast resources of AUSTRALIA’S
MAMMOTH STORE at the command of EVERY-
ONE IN AUSTRALIA. Write for copies of anything
you want (posted free on request) and reap the
full benefit of our unique system of Spot Cash
Trading.
Summer Fashion Book Post Free.
CUSTOMERS ORDERING BY POST are treated in
the same way as THOSE BUYING at the COUNTER,
’he same prices are charged, selections are made
.rom the same stocks, and everything sent to the
country is carefully packed by experienced men.
Summer Coats & Costumes
No. 4380.—Useful Coat, f-length, in Smoke Grey
Sicilian ; has Panel back, single fronts ; the revers,
collar, cuirs and pockets finished Black and White
Stripe '/ilk and Gun Metal buttons 27/6
Hat 16/6
No. 256.—Useful Motor or Driving Coat, of Natural
Linen Crash, f-length, full loose back, Raglan sleeves,
storm collar, buttons high at neck 27/6
Hat 15/6
No. 351.—Smart Navy Sicilian Coat, f-length, new
straight cut back, pointed collar at back, revers and
cuffs, finished Silk strappings with Navy and Gold
braid; also in Black, trimmed all 81ack.... 29/6
Hat 15/6
No. 338.—Sicilian Dust Coat, 1-length, straight full
back and deep Cape collar, revers and cuffs trimmed
Fancy Military Braid; in Black or Navy.. 35/6
Hat 30/-
No. 5016 — Tussore Silk Robe Costume, prettily
trimmed White Lace Net, fine tucks, pipings of Pale
Blue Satin and Satin buttons. S.W., W., and Out-
sizes 29/6. Hat 21/-
No. 5096. — C0at and Skirt Costume, very smart, of
Natural Tussore Silk, effectively relieved pip-
ings of Nut Brown Satin; improved Panel Skirt.
S.W., W., and Outsizes.... 49/6. Hat.. 30/-
No. 238/1. — Attractive Robe Costume, of Silk and
Wool Eolienne, in soft new shades of Powder Blue,
Mineral Grey and Nut Brown, prettily embroidered
with fine Silk Embossing to match. S.W., W., and
Outsizes 35/ - Hat. ... 22/6
No. 2305. — R0be Costume, stylishly designed in Nat-
ural Tussore Silk; the Bodice has loose Basque, open
at sides and relieved with pipings and buttons of
Grey and White Stripe. S.W., W., and Out-
sizes 37/6. Hat... 16/6
&
m
%
*■
a
m
VST
X
<•
ij2|l
m
i
£
*z
I
&
■*'l
III!
1
e36/i
srr lllj
5016
U
cti- , v . v
l l'
"jkprdernf^
'5096 2305
Famous Low Pmces
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


"The Lancet” on
Virginia
CIGARETTES
*Tliey are leaf and nothing but leaf, uninjured or soiled
by mechanical treatment. The specimens analysed show
that due hygienic precautions are observed during
their manufacture.”
The perfect hygienic conditions
under which they are made, and the
sublime quality of the tobacco used
make them the most healthy
a '%
or
smoking that men can enjoy
10 20
6d. 1 /-
\YIhJfREB"
Cigarettes are obtainable at all Leading
Tobacconists, Hotels, Clubs, etc., throughout
Australia.
Sole Manufacturers of Winfred Cigarettes:
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.,
Britain's Greatest High-class
Cigarette Factory,
LONDON, Eng.
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
:
•v.
' —T l
■
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
... i/l )ori switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
oh: the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
ot electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
N.S.W. Agents—
W. G. WATSON & CO. LIMITED,
171 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MARVELLOUS RESULTS
m
are everywhere obtained with
THE BIG CHIEF
OIL ENGINES
which are the highest-gradc American pro-
duction on the market.
They are easy to start, and will keep on
running (providing they are properly oiled)
until you require to stop. The equipment
is complete in every detail, and includes
Wizard Magneto, Double Flywheels and
Muffler.
Being hopper cooled, no troubles need be
feared from leaky tanks.
If you wish to provide yourself with a reliable motive power, send us your
inquiry. We will give you expert advice by return mail —positively gratis.
All sizes Engines, 2 to 12 8.H.P., using Benzine or Kerosene as Fuel.
Cash or Easy Terms. Catalogues t ree.
MARSHALL Steam Engines
0
DURING the past 60 years Messrs.
MARSHALL, SONS & CO. have made
and sold more Steam Engines and
Boilers than any other firm in the
world.
We have one MARSHALL EN-
GINE in New South Wales which has
been in continuous use in a Sawmill
for 07 years. Numbers of Marshall
PORTABLES have been working from
40 to 50 years, and still give the ut-
most satisfaction.
It’s no use Looking for Something Better. IT’S NOT MADE.
Single Cylinder and Compound TRACTION ENGINES, specially built for
Australia.
PORTABLES, 2 to 35 H.P., 12 0-15 01b. working pressure.
Horizontal and Vertical STATIONARY ENGINES, all sizes.
VERTICAL BOILERS, 2 to 12 H.P., 1001 b. working pressure.
COLONIAL TYPE BOILERS.
SPECIAL ENGINE OILS, PACKING, BELTING, &c.
Catalogues Free. Cash or Easy Terms.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ricardo”: The estimated cost of electrifying the
Melbourne railways is £2,750,000, spread over seven
years; and engineer Merz and his associates receive
a tremendous 5 per cent, of it. First returns
should come in in 1915, and show £20,000 saved,
on present-traffic basis. With an increase of traffic
the saving just leaps along. In 1908 Melbourne
railways carried 39 millions of passengers; in 1912,
90 millions. Still, it is boom time, and there may
be a slump. At present Flinders-street station is
alleged to have more passenger traffic than any other
in the world. Once or twice a day, during busiest
hours, the trains cannot find seating accommodation
for more than 70 per cent, of the passengers. There
is a limit to the number of trains that can be run
safely, or even with moderate safety. The demand,
under the present system,- cannot be met without the
lines being triplicated or even quadruplicated. Elec-
trification provides higher speed, more capacity,
greater punctuality, reduction of dirt, noise, smell
and smoke, improved lighting, elimination of heavy
running, and reduction of wear and tear during times
of slack traffic. And all this it is proposed to accom-
plish by means of cheap brown coal, which is of no
use for steam purposes under present conditions, and
very little use for anything else.
“Silas Snell”: I think the Tatt.’s sweep-winner
lie is the most popular and persistent perjury in
Australia. Every second man you meet at this season
of the year is out to advertise Tatt.’s, with a cir-
cumstantial yarn about a bloke who has just landed
£6OOO in a sweep. I had to run an alleged winner
to earth the other day. I found him officiating as
guardian of the bone-heap at. a city butchery. Our
elevating conversation ran this way: “Is this story
about the Tattersall’s sweep true?” “Well, in a
sorter way it is.” “And did you go and take your
father out of the Benevolent Asylum, as they say ?”
“No, that ain’t true. See, I ain’t got an old man.”
“Was it your uncle, then?” “No; ain’t got no uncle
neither that 1 know of.” “Perhaps it was your
mother?” “No; I never took no one out. o’ the
asylum.” “Oh! And you are keeping on at your job
here after making such a haul?” “1 ain’t made any
haul!” “But you won the sweep?” “No, I didn’t.
I had two tickets, though, and one of ’em was only
two off a prize.” And that’s all there was to it.
“The Ratcatcher's Daughter”: The hardest-wood
scuffle broke out again the other day, this time on
the floor of Australia’s House of Reps. The question
was whether karri or jarrah was more suitable for
sleepers in the construction of the Kalgoorlie-Port
Augusta railway. The Australian Government de-
cided in favor of karri, and the ensuing disturbance
was described bv King O'Malley as “the last stand
of monopoly’s defenders in the' House” —said mono-
poly being the Jarrah Co. of Westralia. King-0
quoted the official report of Millar’s Karri and Jarrah
Forests, Ltd., London, as follows: “This famous
timber (karri) is not only tne best for street paving,
but it.leaves its competitors—stone, asphalt and pine
—far behind.” Petsche, formerly city engineer of
Paris, in a publication of his, stated that karri was
the third hardest wood in the world. He placed the
iron-wood of Borneo first; liem, second ; karri, third ;
teak, fourth; and jarrah, fifth. The Sovereign also
quoted Nisbet Blair, a London engineer, as stating
that in the Strand (London), yellow deal had worn
down 4Jin. in 12 months. This was replaced by
jarrah, which wore 2Jin. in three years, or Jin. per
annum, and. later, by karri, which wore at the rate
of l-sth inch per annum. The King may be wrong :
but for once in a way he has got a heap of solid
evidence at the back of his throne.
“Prickly Pear”: Prime Minister Fisher has a
chance of taking a .fall out of prickly pear. Most
people know a variety of things that could be made
from the curse which has spread over 20 or 30 mil-
lions of acres in Queensland, but the majority of
these things could only be evolved, extracted or
otherwise produced at a loss. Most likely alcohol
could be derived at a profit. The world has just now
a tremendous appetite for alcohol, not merely to make
its head go round, but it turns it’s wheels as well. The
quantity available from ordinary sources is not likely
to meet the growing demand, and the possibilities of
prickly pear in this direction should be thoroughly
tested. A bonus offered bv the Federal Government
for the first quarter of a million gallons, to be fol-
lowed up with a duty which would be really pro-
tective, should start the new industry on a satis-
factory basis. Prickly pear grubbing concessions
could be granted to manufacturers on condition that
the vegetable was removed root and all, and thus em-
ployment might be found for hundreds of men at an
occupation which was directly preparing the way for
closer settlement and primary industry, while adding
to the manufacturing wealth of the country.
“Vigilans”: In one business block in Melbourne
there are four “dummy” auctioneers. They all sell
the same class of shoddy and have the same “gee-
ers.” During a holiday week this class of rascal does
roaring business. These auction rooms are the
spieler's haven of rest. The runners-up or “gee-ers”
are all well-known confidence and three-card men.
One shop employs five, all of whom may be seen
on the racecourse with their implements of trade
whenever fools and horses are gathered together. In
the bogus auction rooms they act the parts of jewel-
lers and dealers, and keep a look out for mugs who
are fleeced for the auctioneer, and later on skinned
for the crook’s own benefit, if their hides are worth
the trouble. The confiding bushfellow is their most
frequent Victim. The Argus recently published an
article dealing with this variety of hawk, and a tide
of letters poured in from people who had suffered.
A week or so back, the writer spent half an hour in
a den where a wall notice says impudently, “Loafers
Please Loaf Outside.” While the seller of shoddy
was spinning his usual yarn some rash listener in-
terrupted with, “Have you any ‘gee-ers’ here?” “Go
and have another beer!” yelled Brum angrily. But,
before he could act on the advice, three crooks
grabbed him by the scruff of the neck and propelled
him swiftly to the beerless gutter. The Bourke-
street police are very tired these times, and the
swindling fraternity congregate round these haunts
unmolested. In fact, Bourke-street is 'pretty well
blocked with birds of prey. I understand the asinine
Law has not the right clause, or something, where-
with to squelch them. So they flourish like the
national debt, and O’Callaghan’s exhausted serfs drift
harmlessly by, day-dreaming about that totally inade-
quate 6d.. the Government lately added to their wages.
WASTE MATERIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The milking machine will eventually be as in-
fluential in the dairying industry as the cream separa-
tor, and it will not be possible for any dairy farmer
to carry on with hand-milking.
—Victorian expert's opinion.
The farmer stands his cows in rows
Along the milking sheds,
Applies the nozzle ami the hose
To browns and whites and reds.
Each can is in its place below
The unexpectant cow.
He tweaks the lever round, just so,
And turns the tap, and lets her go,
And scores of streams begin to flow.
Observant stranger, that is how the work of milking's
managed now!
But is the dairy farmer glad?
His calculating eye
Is fixed on space, his brow is sad,
For in their beds they lie,
llis kiddies eight. The clock strikes six;
A sigh his breast expands.
He’s in a most perplexing fix.
You see, they are no use ; his chicks
Are eating much, and earning nix.
Those children, as the matter stands', are simply
thrown upon his hands!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


m
¥. r
i-li l IiLC tui
i i
S
WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
m
wc
LUDBROOK’S STORB
Wonthaggi,
Victoria.
SIR JOHN MADDEN
“ Yamala,”
Prankston, Vic,
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels &. Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF X£STIMONIALA'.
28 Hunter Street, Sydney,
_ , November 28, 1911.
Dear Sira, —
I am writing to let you know how pleased I am with the Aerogen Gas Machine which
you installed at my home, ‘ Clydesdale,” about three months ago. Everything has been
most satisfactory, the machine proving very simple to work, and also very economical.
Ihe light is excellent, both for ordinary use in the house, and for the billiard table. I
will be only too glad to personally recommend it to anyone.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) GEORGE G. KISS.
“Yamala,” Frankston,
Dear Sirs, — January 3, 1911.
I send you herewith my cheque for the Aerogen Machine which you supplied to me, as
per your account enclosed.
The light is perfect, and the installation the simplest possible and most convenient.
We find that anyone can manage it with care and complete safety, and it has brought a very
definite joy to my house here in the complete banishment of the kerosene lamps. Our
servants are content, and the cost seems likely to be much lessened.
With many thanks, Very truly yours, (Sgd.) JOHN MADDEN.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH: ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA : A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
f'Ringing for More!}
ti t_a >■ i
M
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years ’ success . J
//////////
<<3X>
-CC
28*
■e*
«QX>
1 1 ii »..
5“ $9 o fcTii
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
] THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 gets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, post free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Mclb.
THE BEST STORIES written jin Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month.. Price Sixpence.
Cobber Mouth Organs
‘r--ilr-3e=ir2E=«r2EE2l^E3
~ r—t r-s t—t errs m t~t ea r—, r~r rT—< -
1. —The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ... 3/“
2. The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 2/"
3. —The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
4. — The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/-
Sold by all Stores, /
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A. IJ. Beal, East St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, Launceston;
G. W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne;
Optical & Photo Supplies Co.,
Hay St., Perth.
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. The National Monthly.
LONE
Price. 6d.
SdWfld
Manufactured by GWYNNES LTD., LONDON.
High Efficiency Centrifugal Pumps for All Purposes.
GWYNNES LTD. have had over fifty years’ practical experience as Hydraulic Engineers, during which period they have supplied Centrifugal
Pumping Machinery to discharge 80,000,000 gallons (equal to 363,636 cubic metres) per minute, which is equal to the discharge of 363 rivers as
large as the Thames,'or 72 rivers as large as the Nile.
Included in these Plants will be found the most important, durable, economical and successful Pumping Installations in the world.
g
.
Fig:- 602.
We stock these in all sizes, from lin. to 12in.,
with either single or double standards.
This
MOTOR-DRIVEN PRESSURE PUMP, to lift 600 gallons, against
a head of 800 feet.
is the Type of Pump we are supplying for the Broken Hill Water Supply.
PRICES AND QUALITY ARE RIGHT. Send for Cat .^ eu
full particulars from
HAES & EGGERS LTD.
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE WORLD 1
STEVENS
FAVORITE No. 17.
hg
hgf
Furnished with Automatic Ejector in 22 calibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For -22 Long Rifle, '25 Stevens and "32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibre you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS are the “ Bull’s Eye” Kind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., apply to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [2
awmm
=ss
STONEHENGE
suggests vast strength
and, solidity, qualities
which have been evinced
in a remarkable degree
in the Tyres manu-
factured by The Avon
India Rubber Co., Ltd.,
and which explain the
origin of the Avon
trade mark.
Their great factory at Melksham, near
Stonehenge, in Wiltshire, England, is
unexcelled throughout the world for
modernity and perfection of equipment,
and every tyre produced is an embodi-
ment of the finest skill and experience
applied to the highest grades of material
AVON TYRES
The British tyres that rule the road and give sound service longest.
HT7
AVON /
Trade Mark.
Other
Specialities
of this Firm
include :
Mechanical Rubber
for Railways.
Avon Buffer and Draw-
bar Springs, Brake
Materials, Body
Fittings, Valves, Hose
etc., specially adapted
for use in the tropics.
Contractors to the
principal State Rail-
ways.
Cycle and Motor
Cycle Tyres.
With special rubber
treads in several
grades, made specially
to withstand the effects
of hot olimates.
For Motor Cycle Covers.
Clinched-on. A special
combination of Rubber
and Steel Studs placed
alternately round the
tread. Hexagon
rubber-studded, round
rubber - studded and
fluted patterns. Thick
tough treads and extra
strong casings.
Solid Tyres for Motors, Sc.
Avon Band Tyres for
passenger 'busses and
other heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on sections
from 2j-in. to 5-in.,
suitable for the lighter
type of motor vehicles
up to a-ton vans. Solid
tyres for Carriages,
Cabs, Rickshas, &c.
Golf Balls.
Made up on a special
centre which forms the
nucleus for the winding
of Para tape. This
arrangement produces
a ball which flies very
true and is especially
suitable for expert
players.
Avon Ball, 2/■ each.
Nova Ball, 1/3 each.
AVON INDIA RUBBER CO., LTD.,
= MELKS HAM, ENGLAND. =
Branches at London, Bristol, Birmingham. Manchester and Glasgow.
Cable Codes: " A.B.C. sth Edition ” and “ Western Union.*' Stockist:
_ H. C. PANNIFAX, Melbourne.
GUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula <>r Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
.leaving' an}’ blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German, Italian, Spanish, 1/7
each language; Speeches and Toasts for all occasions, 1/1; Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of Vital Power,
5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweet-
hearts for Lives, 5/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illustrated,
7d. ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Book of Love Letters, 1/-; How tc
Woo and Win, 1/1; Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets,
1/1 5 Minstrel Show, 1/1; Eight Popular Farces, 1/1 ; Sixteen Amusing
Farces 1/1; Thirteen One-Act Farces, 1/1 ; Twenty Humorous Dialogues,
1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ; “How Old Mose Counted the Eggs’’ and
Jl, 6 Other Humorous Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations,
1/1; How Sockery Set a Hen” and other Comic Recitations, 1/1;
I'amous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conundrums and Riddles, 1/1;
"ft of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and Clairvoyance,
1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach Animal
1 neks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1;
Hf- t 1 aulkner s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, d/6; New 1912 edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New Tricks with Cards, 1/-;
House Painting, Paperhanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/1; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, i/8 ; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor,
1/-; Lovers Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-.
I#" AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
31 FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Holds the World’s Record for Largest Bonuses.
All participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department previous to 31st December next will share
in the Cash Bonus for the current, '-ear.
Cash Bonus divided for the year 1911. . . . . . £888,911
representing 38.9 % of the total premiums received during the year.
Total Cash Bonuses distributed . . . . . . £16,853,102
Paid to members or their beneficiaries . . . . £35,262.848
Insure at once and so participate in the profits of this purely Mutual Institution.
Pull information obtainable at the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office, or ftdfM
any Agent of the Society. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR,
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and, Actuary , H. W. APPERLY, Secretary ,
NO MORE BOSH FIRES
183*6
THE Bryant, May, Bell & Co.
Safety Wax Vestas are a
new departure in Match
making, as they perfectly com-
bine the advantages of both
wax and ordinary wood safety
matches. They withstand the
hottest climate —give a strong
light—strike only on the box—
and are absolutely “safety” in
every respect.
Obtainable at all
Stores throughout
Australia .
STRIKE ONLY ON M BOX
MARK
Elade in
England
Underwear
MARK
sava x
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
Live in a pure atmosphere
Avoid the risk of fever and disease by keeping
all drains, sinks, w.c.’s, etc., thoroughly disinfected.
Remember that infectious diseases arise from pollu-
tion and filth. With Izal you can destroy infectious
germs instantly, or prevent them getting lodgment
in your home. Flush all drams and sinks with Izal
regularly. Use in water for washing floors, etc.
Mixes equally well with salt,
brackish, or fresh water.
45*
ft!
hgf
The guaranteed disinfectant
of unrivalled strength
is the pioneer modern high-power
germicide. Officially adopted
throughout the British Empire.
Write for Free Booklet, “Practical
Disinfection.”
Agents:
T. K. STEANES,
37-43 Pitt St., Sydney.
One gallon makes 400 gallons
of efficient disinfecting fluid.
' I!
i
9 i!
/ (:
!> i!
I Hi
1


TiredO
Tired •
■ ll^
Tired at night? Tired in the
morning? Tired all the time?
And sleep does not refresh
you? Nor rest bring you
comfort? Then something
is wrong. You need a tonic,
and a medicine that will puri-
fy your blood. Here it is—
Ayers
Keep your bowels regular. Have
at least one free movement each
day. Ayer’s Pills will promptly cor-
rect any tendency to constipation.
Dose, just one pill, only one. Con-
sult your doctor about this.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AYER 6c CO..
Dowell. Maes., XT* S. A.
NTJ
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877|
She'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurlei.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
11l OM smc« 1506.
h
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free-or write
S- GREEN. 210. Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes
(GBD)
Pipes
No. 914.
TO BE BOUGHT FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
INSIST ON
GETTING
<§sn)
o 4
&
s>
<o
f
I
OUR
PIPES
DEFY ALU
IMITATORS
THERE ARE
TWO THINGS
THEY CAN T
PRODUCE
(1) OUR QUALITY
(2) OUR SHAPE.
WE CAN PROVE ALL WE ADVERTISE.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER FROM
GOUT Rheumatism?
Professor Berscham’s Gout and Rheumatic
Cachets in boxes of l doz. 2S. 6d . 2 doz., 4s.
Incomparable, Alleviating and Harmless.
A trial box will prove efficacy. Posted to any
address in the Commonwealth
• Box No. <)3t, G P.O . Melbourne. Vic.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
ELM
Rio
Be»t“BULLS-EYE" ELECTRIC POCKET LAMP
with latest improved cell. PRICE 5/-, post free anywhere. Press the
button and a brilliant light is immediately obtained. Fits hand and pocket.
Extra cells, 1/9; post free. Send postal note (mentioning this paper) to:
STAR NOVELTY C0.,229 Collins St,Melbourne
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS_
£
rjunws
'S?BS
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as you write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying
The letter is posted and the book
put away. 400 Octavo (Bin. by 5)
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
in N.S.C./200, .Post Free for 3/9.
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S C./400, Post Free, for 5/-.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.o. 3/. Post
Free: or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetic Pens, 3d. doz., 2/- gross. Zanetlo Writing Paper, size
8x 5, II- pkt., 10 x 8,2/- Sample o£ the Zanetic Ink paper
produces this result, Free, if stamped envelope to
$. B, ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road, LEICESTER, England.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAnv ladv can cure the most violent drunkard -secretly—at home. GOEDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WEIGH
YOUR FIGURE
WHAT YOU SHOULD. |
Wr,
TOO THIN
WOMEN.
If you are flat-
chested, thin,
run down and
scraggly—even if you never had a
nicely-rounded bosom, Dr. Fal-
liere’s Flesh-Food will build you
up and develop your figure. Does
your mirror mock you ? Flesh-
Food will remove the faults in
your figure by rounding out and
developing the deficient places.
Put up in Tablet form, it is easy
to use and pleasant to take, and,
if desired, may be taken secretly.
Taken under our directions, it
will work wonders for your ap-
pearance. Thousands of grateful
women fully endorse it.
In many cases bust measure-
ments have been increased _ by
over ten inches, and the weight
over five pounds weekly. Other
cases have shown an increase in
weight of even a pound a day.
The average bust increase desired
is about six inches, and is readily
accomplished. Results invariably guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to
the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable
figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to
attenuated women.
TOO FAT
PEOPLE.
Excess fat in-
jures your
health, impedes
your movements, and makes you
the butt of your unfeeling nor-
mal-weight friends. People who
have been fat, and are now re-
duced to normal, think other
fat people ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat in-
jure your health and endanger
your existence, it absolutely
destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Whv do
you stay fat? “FATCURE’
positively removes excess fat,
and will restore your spoiled
figure to decent and pleasing
proportions, and is always a
sure and lasting cure for obesity
and corpulency. A few doses
improves your breathing won-
derfully. and the course of treat-
ment will cure you.
It is the onlv successful, and.
fgh
at the same time, harmless, fat-reducer that
has ever been discovered. Its efficacy has been
undeniably demonstrated in thousands of suc-
cessfully treated cases. It is totally and abso-
lutely non-poisonous, and can in no wise work
any injury to the general health; though it
often reduces excess weight by as much as a
pound a day. You should try it at once.
“ ' IVg SUPPLY FREE A SAMPLE OF EITHER “FLESH-FOOD” or “ FATCURE.”
Send 2d. stamp, and sav which remedy you want, and we will send a free sample, also free book,
“BUST” to thin Deople, “OBESITY” to fat ones. Be sure to say which sample you want. JNo
matter where vou live we can treat you succcssf Uv by post. Confidential. Write or call to-day.
THE WATWORTH FALLIERE ASSN., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney. [A iBO7
ar
Now is the best
time to paint —
Wi
and Berger’s Paints are the best to use.
They not only look better but wear longer
than any others, so you save money by putting
off the day of re-painting. There is a
special Berger Paint for every surface—your
painter will recommend the most suitable —-
and the local Berger Agent
will give you free colour
cards of
A
On sale throughout the CommonueaFth..
For name of Focal agent send a post card to
W Lewis Berger & Sons (Australia) Ltd-,
Vi. |«, YOUNC STREET, SYDNEY
g
Tobacco
Kills!
ĝ
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.’
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR COb CO.,
Dept. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
MILNERS’ SAfES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISB'ANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, e/o Sydney Agents.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but onO
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for no ore?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Big Stocktaking Sale.
GREAT REDUCTION IN PRICES.
D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock, 12-gauge. Usual price, £3/17/6.
SALE PRICE, £2/17/6. COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAI/.
Special D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, fitted with
Greener patent crossbolt, top lever, automatic
patent safety treble grip. Usual price, £9.
REDUCED TO £7. COMPLETE WITH
CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
5.8.8. L. Gun, with top lever, choke bore, nicely
figured walnut stock, pistol grip. Usual price,
£2. SALE PRICE, 25/- COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
Special D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun, with bar and rebound-
ing lock snan action, left barrel full choke, right
modified, nicely figured walnut stock, hammers
below line of sight, fitted with Greener patent
crossbolt. Usual price, £6. SALE PRICE,
£4/4/- COMPLETE WITH CLEANING AP-
PARATUS. TRIAL. „ „ , , , ,
Mauser Principle Rifles, to kill at 200 yards, to take
22 long and 22 short cartridges. Usual price,
£l/1/-. SALE PRICE, 15/-
All orders for Guns or Rifles delivered CARRIAGE
PAID to an' address in the Commonwealth.
SEND FOR OUR SPECIAL PRICE LIST.
Small Arms Co.,
IMPORTERS,
242*244 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THF, Australian Magazine—THlS
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Retrospect.
Have you ever come to Sydney Town, your
heart brimful of glee.
In the Springtime of the Year.
With its heat and dust and glamor. Oh . its
very dear to me,
Inexpressibly dear!
Have you ever risked your life
’Mid the traffic’s din and strife,
IHlled with fear?
Have you ever seen the Harbor when the
sun is going down
On a Summer’s evening bright.
When the boats are sailing homewards, out-
stretched wings of white and brown,
Bathed in light?
Have you heard the seagull s call,
From the white stone garden wall
Seen their flight?
Have you ever gone a-surfing on a sultry
Summer day
With a dainty little maid?
In a neat Canadian costume, waging war
against the spray,
Unfraid?
Luxuriating in the brine
With the glass at 99
In the shade?
Have you seen the ships departing from a
corner of the Quay
With a smile to hide the tears?
Have you felt that heartsick longing for
your Own Countree
After half a score of years?
Through the churning of the screw,
’Mid the gleam of red and blue,
Heard the cheers?
Oh! hasten down to Sydney Town, you have
been long away !
Come to greet the glad New Year!
With its merry Christmas shopping, it is
always bright end gay
And immeasurably dear!
You will always find a friend
With a welcome to extend
Waiting here!
N.S.W.
ISOBEL RENTOUL.
The Kiss of Spring.
My lover kissed me on tlie lips,
A hearty kiss and free,
And dancing to my finger tips
The warm blood leaped in me.
We rode together down the way
Through paths of shade and light,
And all the dimples of the day
With bird and bloom were bright.
My lover laughed in merry sport.
Oh, it was good to ride
Where blossoms held their noonday court
And earth and sky were wide.
And it was good to feel and know
How strong he was and fair,
Who half one golden hour ago
Had kissed me unaware.
The Spring was at its highest flood,
The world was all a song,
It was the music of my blood
That beat so sweet and strong.
The wild bird carolled in the tree,
It carols gaily still,
And Summer has a kiss for me
Since young Spring worked his will.
Still at the changing of the year
The warm, soft airs aflow
Kiss me, like love, as in the dear
Dead Spring of long ago.
N.S.W.
PEARL SMITH.
Eugenics Up to Date.
No one should be allowed to marry who cannot
show a clean bill of health.
—Latest eugenic dictum.
I’d waited lons for Mary, but her foolish
doting mother
For long refused my offer, and advised me
seek another.
And, when the mother yielded, the Panjan-
drum said the pharynx
Of Mary was defective, and she’d trouble in
her larynx.
I then laid siege to Jessie, who was debonair
and faddy,
And when I’d won her over I’d a battle with
her daddy;
But when she sought her “stifficate” (as
only just and right is),
The College would not issue, for she’d chronic
tonsilitis.
A peach (I thought) without a speck was
pretty little Polly;
Her smile was all enchantment and her
laugh was always jolly;
But her they sternly did taboo—because, be-
neath her roses,
A hint they did discover of the fell tubercu-
losis.
I wooed the haughty Winifred until she did
surrender.
And showed beneath her scornful guise there
beat a bosom tender:
But then the College did decree: “No man
shall ever marry her,
We find when she was twenty-three she was
a typhoid carrier.”
And when, at last, I’d run —I think —
through quite a baker’s dozen,
My choice, at length, despairing fell on Kate,
my gentle cousin;
But having found her free of plague and
gout and meningitis,
They put the damsel out of court for old ap-
pendicitis.
Yet finally I found a maid who calm and
smiling passed them —
Her build was firm; her health superb—and
so the College classed them;
But, when I went to get my girl and proudly
take her home again,
I found Myself disqualified, and started off
to roam again.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


EXCELLENT EVERY-DAY GOWNS
Cool, Comfortable and
Becoming:.
Useful Wrapper, in Print;
collar edged i'r.ll. In navy, but-
cher blue or light colors 5/11
Serviceable Robe, in Print,
trimming white pipings. Plain
navy or butcher, or spotted navy
and butcher blue: In all sizes,
7/«
Maid’s Tussore Silk Robe,
strappings on bodice, piped white,
and finished small buttons. Skirt
panelled, welted seams. 42, 45,
48, 51 inch . 16/11
Neat White Muslin Robe,
embroidery panel down front
bodice and skirt, and fine tucking.
All sizes . ..., 10/6
KimOllO, in Paislct Sateen,
edged band plain Sateen. In
amethyst, sky, pink, brown, and
eau-de-nil. Also, in Crppe, plain,
with white border, amethyst, sky,
grey, saxe ...., 10/6
Carriage Paid all
over Australia.
Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd Central Square,
Opp. Railway Station,
SYDNEY.
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POURRI
For Pipe Smokers—POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Blend of Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
Postage 4d. ext ra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers—POT POURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH—SO for 4/6, postage 4d. extra; 100 for 9/», postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA —100 for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/-, postage 1/6 extra.
Send for my Illustrated Catalogue, post free.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
■a®
m
■^u€&
Ll t*
y» wy
■;*#:
S 3
•>^:a
Sg3gg
WCJ/IDERLtCH
tv CEILI/ICS »•,
Have them Specified in YOUR Contract.
You will find them in all Modern Homes.
lOOK through those new houses in the planning of which most thought has
been employed, and you will find in almost all the Wunderlich Metal
installation. For Wunderlich Ceilings and Wall Linings are the invariable
specification of the architect who seeks for his client the utmost in
permanence and decorative effect. j
WUNDERLICH
Ceilings and Wall Lining's
are Attractive in Design, Economical —to Buy, to Freight
and to Fix Catalogue Post Free.
Wunderlich Metal Manufactures include Metal Roofing, Dormers and Mansard Windows,
Ridges and Finials, Metal Shop Fronts, Verandahs and Awnings, Exterior Linings, etc.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
Hobart, Launceston ; and Wellington, N.Z.
The Unvarying: Charm of
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
has won the steadfast adherence of the Con-
noisseur. They are absolutely uniform in
flavor, delicacy and subtle attractiveness.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN and VIRGINIAN.
Many grades—neatly and cleanly packed.
Your Tobacconist stocks them.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., "ftrSJSKr
Men of every rank smoke
ABDULLAS!
HALLEY Motor Lorries
ARE EASY TO CONTROL.
The “Halley” is cheaper to run per mile than liorse-teams. And
when it is not working it costs no money, and needs the slightest amount
of looking after. And, being from three to four times as fast, it brings
the markets nearer. The roughest roads and most hilly country offer
no impediment to the Halley’s progress. It is constructed by a specialist
in industrial motors, to withstand the hardest conditions and severest
usage. ■
The “Halley” is simple in construction. Anyone soon learns the
way to handle this lorry. The majority of “Halleys” in use are being
controlled by former drivers of horse teams. This fact makes it parti-
cularly valuable to dwellers remote from mechanical assistance.
The Special Award and Gold and Silver Medals of the Eoyal Auto-
mobile Club, for Simplicity, Accessibility and Freedom from Break-
down, have been awarded the “Halley.”
ANY TYPE OF BODY FITTED.
To Carry from 15cwt. to 6 Tons.
DALGETY <& CO. Ltd.
Motor Garage: 136=138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—150. 1709.
THURSDAY, N OYEMBER 14, 1912.
Puiui Ou.
IN THE VALLEY OF DEAD NATIONS.
The over-peopled country, like Englaad. mat lms to look abroad for. is a calamity. But so, also, is the grently under-peopled one that has to look abroad for def[?]-B. 31/9/12.
JOHN BULL: "How did I get here? Shortage of provisions, young man. Both my allies and enemies suddenly decided they wanted all their
food for themselves, and—well, I never bothered much about home production. What sent you here?”
THE LITTLE CHAP: “I depended on YOU! An’ you suddenly decided you required all your armaments for your own defence, an-well, I'd
never bothered much about home defence preparations!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
I’rinted and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosinan, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBiSCIiIBERiS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£lOO
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly . . .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct lo The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” »*
the proper superscription for “copy.’’ Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
Tfie Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence'’ col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clivpings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn — : will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., liil Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and. I) Streets. San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenelian, 585
— 29tli Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey, World’s
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco; Queen City
News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Hong
Fong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland.
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 1/16 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6’gin. x H/in., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British Neiv Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands. 10<>z. Id.: United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Sioz. to
10oz., Sid.: 10oz. to 120 z.. 3d.; elsewhere, J/OZ., Id.,
and id." each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14, M>l2.
HOW OF ARMAGEDDON?
Last week Dr. Long, Bishop of Bathurst
(N.S.W.), voiced the sentiments of the aver-
age casual Australian, in regard to the war
in the Balkans. “I hope,” he said jauntily,
“that the other nations of Europe will be
good enough sports to stand outside and let
them have it out” —an aspiration which was
loudly applauded. One would think from
the cheery, impersonal tone of this pro-
nouncement that Australians, along with
Britishers in general, stood in no peril from
the trouble that is raging on the other side of
the earth. To persons like the Bishop, it
appears in the light of a sort of test match,
or row between alien schoolboys. In point
of fact, as an outcome of this disturbance,
Australia may quite soon be experiencing
those horrors which, hitherto, it has only
read about. The unspeakable person in the
scarlet fez is evidently licked to a standstill.
Hilmi Pasha, Turkish Ambassador at
Vienna, declared, as far back as Thursday
last, that the position of his country was
“hopeless.” At the time of writing. Con-
stantinople—that mighty and most desirable
citadel, whose sphere of influence extends
from the Adriatic to the Persian Gulf, and
from the Danube to the Eastern Mediter-
ranean —appears to be on the verge of capitu-
lating to the enemy. In any event, before
these lines are printed, the Powers may have
landed troops there to preserve order, a pro-
visional military Government may have been
established, and the Turk may be a cipher
in the city that has been the capital of his
Empire for four and a half centuries. What
if, in his humiliation and despair he crossed
over the Bosphorus, bag and baggage, and
abandoned Europe? He could take no more
dreadful revenge on the Powers which have
stood off and watched his agonies in more or
less approving silence. A general conflagra-
tion, a species of European Armageddon,
would be inevitable. It is questionable
whether it isn’t inevitable anyhow. Each
of the great nations is yearning for Constan-
tinople, and none can afford to let the other
have it. The conflict of interests is appar-
ent to anyone who glances at a European
railway map. Germany is vitally interested
in strengthening its position in Asia MinTir,
where it already has concessions to build
the Euphrates Valley railway. Nothing on
earth could more advantage it in this respect
than the possession of the great city on the
Bosphorus. Constantinople would give Rus-
sia an exit to the Mediterranean, a boon it
has been expressly denied for generations.
Russia is in a position to make a powerful
bid for this priceless asset. There is the
French alliance, and there is the fact that
the Serbs and Bulgarians have traditional
and historical racial and religious sympathies
with the Bear Empire. Bulgaria badly
wants an outlet to the ocean on the iEgean
and since neither the Greeks, nor Roumania
(the reputed possessor, by the way, of one of
the most formidable armies of its size in
Europe), nor indeed any of the Balkan na-
tions, would endure the handing over of the
prize to Bulgaria, the latter race of useful
fighters might throw in its lot with Russia
in return for a nnrt. Servia, according to a
cable message which appeared on Monday
last, is clamoring for a port on the Adriatic.
But, apart from the fact that Italy requires
the whole of the Albanian coast. Austria,
one-third of whose people are dissatisfied
Slavs, must risk all rather than submit to
a step which would inevitably lead up to
the establishment of the racial magnet of a
Pan-Slav Empire on its borders. Britain,
so long as it aspires to occupy Egypt, cannot
allow any naval Power to hold Constanti-
nople ; and without a doubt, to avert such a
menace to its interests, it would fight to the
death.
* * * *
A recent message that the Belgian army is
mobilising is full of significance. It means
that the cockpit of Europe sees trouble
ahead. And whatever great Powers fly at
each other’s throats, Britain must immedi-
ately be involved. Assume that either
Russia on the one hand, or Germany on
the other, seizes the splendid booty which
the valor and genius of the Balkans people
has laid at the world’s feet, in a manner of
speaking. War would follow automatically
between Russia and its ally France, on one
side, and Germany on the other, Germany
being aided possibly by Roumania. Britain,
France and Russia are bound by treaty to
preserve the inviolability of Belgium. But
Germany’s road to France and to the
mouth of the Scheldt lies through Belgium.
Treaties apart, it would be as much as
Britain’s national existence was worth to
suffer Germany to gain a footing anywhere
adjacent to the mouth of the Rhine—that is
to say, in a position from which it would
be able to menace, perhaps to command, the
North Sea. It is well known that last July,
at the time of the war scare. Britain was
fully prepared to land its expeditionary force
on the North Coast of France, with the
object of preventing any attack on
Belgium. That landing would occur
inevitably, within a very few days
of the beginning of hostilities between
those Powers which are most likely
to clash in the rush for the Turkish spoil.
In that case, the British Empire would be
at war. not with a few unclothed niggers,
rot with a tiny nation of farmers, but with
the carefully-trained and organised armies
of a combination of huge fighting nations.
* * * *
A question which should be approached in
this country in a spirit of deadly serious-
ness is: Where and how, in that event,
would Australia stand? From the moment
that friendly relations ceased, the Com-
monwealth would be as open to attack as the
county of Kent. An elementary rule of war-
fare lays it down that a policy of aggression
is the best means of defence. How of our
destroyers? Are they prepared, at short
notice, to go out and intercept and seize
foreign merchantmen, to repel the attacks
of foreign war vessels, and in general to
perform the duties which they were built
for? Have cruising districts been mapped out?
Are there coaling stations and oil depots
along the coast, with adequate supplies? And
are our vessels equipped, as regards ammuni-
tion, stores, and so on, for a prolonged
period of trouble? And then there is the
vital problem of our land forces. That we
have a Military Board the whole world
knows. Evidence of its activity is continu-
ally forthcoming, in the form of new designs
in puttees, and fresh ideas in feathers and
gold lace and the like. But as to whether
there exists anywhere a busy, far-seeing and
capable General Staff —the sort of body
whose existence made Japan what it is, and
whose absence has just made Turkey what
it is—no evidence is forthcoming. Sup-
posing it were necessary suddenly to call
out 20,000, or even 10,000, men, for the
purposes of local defence. Has anyone in
authority fixed upon the places at, which
they would be enrolled ? Is there, in the
whole of the Commonwealth, the cadre , as
it is called, or skeleton, of any single regi-
ment? That is to say, are there men who
know where to put their hands, within a
week or a month or - two months, on all the
boots, uniforms, rifles, socks, ammunition,
scarves, cooking utensils, bedding, hats,
water bottles and similar oddments essen-
tial to a regiment that is embarking on
active service? Have arrangements been
made lor the feeding of large bodies of
men, and for the care of the sick and
wounded? Could the authorities ship 5000
troops, within a brief space of time, from
Melbourne to (say) Port Darwin? Or
2000? Or 1000? In fact, have any trans-
port plans whatever been worked out?
It may be that Australia stands on velvet
in the matter of the provision that has been
made by its military heads against hostile
invasion. On the other hand, things may
be all the other way. If they are, there is
nothing surer than that a ghastly experi-
ence awaits it, if not at once, then, inevita-
bly, a little later on. Turkey’s present plight
affords a hideous example of the criminal
folly of not worrying. One of the reasons
why the Ottoman was annihilated at Kirk-
Ivilisse would seem to be that, before en-
gaging his ruthless foe, he had not fed for
three days, no one having troubled to make
proper commissariat arrangements. Wounded
Turks have been dying like flies for weeks
because no provision was made by their
Government to give them medical help. The
clothes and boots of the Turk are in a par-
lous state, for the reason that no one has
taken the trouble to look to these things.
In short, he who for generations bore the
name of the world’s greatest fighting
man owes the loss of his European Empire
and the trailing of his proud reputation in
the mud of defeat, mainly to villainous care-
lessness and lack of foresight on the part of
those whose job it was to organise his army
as a serious fighting machine. There may
be no such carelessness in the Common-
wealth. But if there is, then those respon-
sible for it are the wickedest of traitors.
This country is one of the most glittering
prizes of any white men’s war. Under ex-
isting conditions, it might be called on to
defend its national life within a week or
less. It can do so, provided its forces, small
as they are, are properly organised and
equipped. Are they? It is a question De-
fence Minister Pearce might have to
answer with fearful suddenness.
THE AGE OF REASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Victorian State Executive recently ordered
the flogging of a sex-maniac, who is under sentence
of imprisonment for life.
Whene’er I read some savage tale
Of punishment devised
By tyrants in an olden day,
When serfs were victimised,
I reverently tell myself
“Thank God, we're civilised !”
Thank God, those idols, grimmer far
Than gods of wood or stone,
Unthinking Hate and brute Revenge,
With all the seeds they’ve sown,
Are cast to earth, and Reason sits
With Mercy on the throne.
Calm Reason sits upon the throne
And fashions righteous laws,
And in our blessed Age of Light
It ever bids us pause
And, ere we plan the remedy,
Unearth the Primal Cause.
It seeks not, in a brutish rage,
To flog the witless fool;
The rack, the pillory are gone,
The witches’ ducking stool ;
And Reason builds no gallows for
Heredity’s poor tool.
“Reform lies not in punishment!”
So saith the modern sage.
“No remedy for evil holds
Blind Hate or savage Rage.
The whipping-post, tllfi darkened cell
Are of a darker age.”
So Reason saith ; so Mercy saith ;
And, having said, withdraw.
(O brothers, in this Noble Age
That there should be a flaw!)
And to the vacant throne there steps
The thing men call the Law.
The Law devised by kings long-dead
And superstitious priests,
Whose code considered but revenge,
With bloody rites and feasts —
The ancient Law, bequeathed by men
Scarce risen from the beasts.
But e’en before such kings and priests
Infested our poor earth,
Long ages ere some bleeding wretch
Excited their loud mirth.
A thing, half man, with crooked brain,
It chanced, was given birth.
And lo! this thing begat him sons,
And their sons sons again,
And on and on. till sturdier .
And cleaner grew tfie strain,
Till in the breed, for many an age,
The taint had dormant lain.
For countless ages it. mayhap,
The fatal taint had missed.
Till, in our day, a babe was born
With some strange mental twist,
A thing for all men’s, sympathy—
A foredoomed atavist.
And that he sinned against our code
And harmed a fellow-man
(Lord knows what Nature is about
To work on such a plan !)
Lo. be is seized on by the Law
And placed beneath the ban !
And what has Reason now to say,
Chief of our modern gods?
And Mercy? “Keep the man apart,
But harm not such noor clods?”
“Nay,” saith the Law, “we’ll truss him
up
And scourge his back with reds !’
And so they take the last poor son
Of all that tainted host.
And try to exorcise the taint
There at the wliinping-post.
This is the Age of Reason, friends !
It is our proudest boast.
And what of those great men on hieii
Who said this thing should be?
Wliat of the Law’s high officers
Who voiced the brute decree?
Shall such ones not become the mark
For scornful obloquy?
Nav, gentle brothers, blame them not-
Blame is the whip of fools —
For here again we mark in them
Heredity’s poor tools.
The eld rings with their sires’ demand,
Calling for ducking stools.
And so. when all is said and done,
We end whero we began.
We must leave Nature to proceed
With her age-honored plan.
E’en I who speak may be t'>e son
Of some strange-fashioned man.
Because he had a twisted form
A man of old was slain :
They flog him in our Age of Light
For his poor twisted brain;
And, ’spite my words, the chances are
They’ll do the same again.
Still, when I read some savage tale
Of punishment devised
By tyrants of an olden day,
When serfs were victimised.
I feel it in my heart to say : —■
“Thank Gon, we're civilised !”
VICTORIA.
DEN.
THE PARTY COMBINE IN RESTRAINT
OF DOING THINGS.
The secretary of the Watchmakers and
Jewellers’ Employees’ Union in Sydney re-
cently complained that in his city one of the
big manufacturers had discharged 30 hands.
Pressed for an explanation, the vice-presi-
dent of the Manufacturers’ Association said
that while his own firm was still reasonably
busy, the importations of foreign goods had
increased. What is true of this one trade is
true of many. Wage increases without in-
creased Protection can only result in driving
work to the countries where work is done
more cheaply, thus throwing the men locally
engaged in that industry into the ranks of
unskilled labor, or forcing them to join the
army of post-leaners and odd-jobbers.
* * * *
Australia always needs a high tariff, but
its present need is much more urgent than
usual. The signs of coming slump are as
plainly marked as the face of a White Hope
after meeting the powers of darkness. Two
big southern factories have already closed,
and more are likely to follow. Importations
are enormous, and the existing Protection is
about as effective as a string of Chinese
crackers would be against a Bulgarian
bayonet charge. Yet nothing is done, and
the tariff-sinkers of both political parties
seem to regard the situation with compla-
cency. Loss of work for Australian hands
means lack of bread for Australian mouths;
yet the men whose first business it should
be to set the crooked matter straight act as
if the thing had less interest for them than
the defeat of the favorite for the Melbourne
Cup, or the question whether a Minister’s
pals should have first claim to employment
on public works. And all this apathy in
face of a gigantic public danger exists in
spite of the fact that the Federal Parliament
has an unquestioned majority in favor of
out-and-out Protection. If the free vote of
the members of the Australian Parliament
could be taken on the question to-morrow,
the adequate Protection for Australian in-
dustries which is needed might become Aus-
tralian law before a week was over, the
growing evil might be checked, and Austra-
lian workers might have secured to them the
right to work and live which is fast slipping
from them. A majority of the people of
Australia are in favor of such Protection,
a majority of their representatives in Par-
liament are in favor of it, the exigencies of
the hour loudly demand it, and yet matters
drift from bad to worse, and nothing at all
is done. Why? Because the curse of Party
Government has us in its thrall, and the
free voice of the people and their represen-
tatives is smothered under the weight of an
absurd and obsolete system. Fxsiiek, the
Protectionist, must yield in matters of
highest principle and urgent reform to
Hughes, the Freetrader, so that he may
have the latter’s support against Deakin,
the Protectionist, who is leagued with Cook,
the Freetrader. Australia may stand still,
or go to the dogs or the devil in
order that the game may be played in the
orthodox way, and a Party, which means
nothing either good or useful, held together
to further defeat the popular will.
■K * * *
Nero, fiddling amid the Roman blaze, had
at least the excuse that he was an artist
and producing suitable music to accompany
the crackling of the flames; but Fisher,
hopeless and helpless in the midst of the
ruin his fiscal sinking is bringing about, has
no such excuse to offer. Party politics, as
played by the leading professionals in the
game, is a fairly remunerative branch of
sport which can provide gentle exercise and
simple luxuries for a few; but the Protec-
tion which the present crisis calls for, but
which party politics prevents, means work
for thousands of Australians, which means
food and shelter and clothing for tens of
thousands of Australians. It will be a dis-
astrous thing for the Labor party if the
people of the Commonwealth should be
driven to take note of the fact that Labor
may be as much the foe of labor as anti-
Labor, or Toryism, or any old thing which
wears the brand of popular contempt and
derision.
Party Government is no fixed and neces-
sary feature of our system of politics. There
is a perfectly simple means of escape from
the tangle which is holding back Australian
effort and preventing reform. Party as it
exists is as much a combine in restraint of
progressive legislation as any Beef or Oil
Trust can be a combine in restraint of trade.
The introduction of a sane system of elec-
tive Ministries would at a single sweep wipe
out the present party lines for ever. Poli-
ticians would still, of course, continue to
form into parties with regard to certain
measures and views, but such combinations
would readjust themselves with every new
proposal brought before Parliament, and no
member would be called upon to vote against
the thing he believed in. To-day’s allies
would be to-morrow’s opponents, and legis-
lation would be passed, not by weight of
party influence., but by force of actual
thought and opinion. Were such a system
in existence in Australia our present tariff
wall would be built up to an effective height
with ordinary business-like promptitude.
But Party Government goes on its lumber-
ing way. irresponsible in its methods as the
rule of Sultan or Czar, doing in six sessions
what should be done in six weeks, and leav-
ing a thousand things undone, because to
attempt them would mean the breaking up
of the party itself. And still the people en-
dure it, and look up hopefully to men of
tied hands and stultified aspirations who
still boast that they are leaders in the fight
for progress! Sometimes luck helps the
nation forward a few steps, sometimes ill-
luck hurls it back, sometimes some of the
people starve, and often most of them suffer
unnecessary hardships. But always the Fat
Man laughs; for Party Government is his
best friend, and he knows it.


Xo Agents:
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1912
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations by “Hop,” Alf Vincent,
Norman Lindsay and all the leading represen-
tative artists, will be the finest Black and
White Work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the National humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the
annual reflection of the life and thoughts of our
country, and therefore, useful as well as inter-
esting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates,
but, in consequence of the heavy outlay on this
Special Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 16th NOVEMBER to en-
sure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maori land, 7d-;
Foreign Addresses, 9cL
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fiscalism and the U.S. Presidential
Election.
For the first time in 20 years a democrat
is President of the United States, and the
Australian Freetrade press is elated. Syd-
ney Telegraph supplies a fair type of the
general volume of comment: —
While we believe that the selection of the Demo-
crat is by far the best the United States could make
for itself, it is beyond doubt that it means more to
the world outside than the choice of either of the
other candidates would have meant, owing to the
Democrats being pledged to fiscal reform in the
shape of a tariff for revenue only.
This recalls 1892, when Grover Cleveland
had been elected President on the Democra-
tic ticket. He was suspected of Freetrade
leanings, and with a good deal of reason,
having been the author of a spirited attack
on the system whereunder about two-thirds
of the revenue of his uative land was de-
rived from import duties. Australian Free-
traders whooped joyously, under the de-
lusion that in the land of the _ screaming
eagle they had found a champion and a
priceless advt. for their creed. Infuriated
with this idea, George Reid and Edward
Pulsford called a public meeting for the
purpose of expressing gratification at the
honor done to their supposed fiscal ally. It
was a tremendous success. Reid, who had
hitherto opposed Federation “because it
meant Protection,” and who as a result had
narrowly missed losing his seat in East
Sydney, seized on the triumph of Cleve-
land as an excuse to perform an adroit
somersault. He announced that the spec-
tacle of a great country like America throw-
ing off the incubus Protection had heart-
ened him. What America had done Aus-
tralia could do. He no longer felt afraid
of Federation. The thought of one sober
man keeping house with five drunkards had
ceased to appal him. (Deafening ap-
plause.) In collaboration witli Pulsford
he sent a lengthy cable to Cleveland con-
gratulating him on his victory “in the name
of Freetrade.” Cleveland did not so much
as acknowledge the congratulations. He
did not dare. Neither then, nor now, nor
during any of the years intervening, lias it
been possible for a man to live politically
at the top of the tree in the U.S. with the
stigma of Freetrader on him. America
starkly refrained from throwing off the in-
cubus Protection. Years passed, and Reid
himself—the man who had only agreed to
Federation because he meant to convert all
Australia to Freetrade —began to _ glimpse
the light of the Inevitable. Coalescing with
Protectionists, he sank the fiscal issue.
These ancient facts are recalled lest pre-
sent-day Freetraders, if such there are,
should be deluded into acts of foolishness.
America is not going to adopt a tariff for
revenue only, any more than Germany pro-
poses to disarm or Britain to scrap its navy.
For months past Wilson has been repudi-
ating his alleged revenue-tariff predilections.
Here is what he said at Hartford, Connec-
ticut (25/9/T2) :
Do you suppose half the population of the United
States is going to destroy the very foundations of
our economic life by. running amok among* tariff
schedules ?
That is not our programme, and anybody who
says it is simply does not understand the situation
in the United States at all.
There should be no fear of the FREETRADE
BUGABOO, because the Democrats do not propose
to revise the tariff in any other way than will con-
serve the real business interests of the country.
We propose to revise those schedules which give
unfair private advantage to certain interests without
affecting business which is sound and legitimate, and
which we all wish to see promoted.
Neither I nor the Democratic party stand for Free-
trade.
The Freetrader who would claim the pos-
sessor of those sentiments as an ally is
almost too much of the cheerful optimist 10
be at large.
-
Where the Chronic Jester is Out
of Place.
Melbourne Age remarked in its report of
some recent proceedings in the Australian
Parliament
For upwards of an hour there was debate, most
of it of a bantering kind, on the sum of £3OO set
aside for members’ “writing paper and envelopes.”
It could veraciously make the same com-
ment on about 50 per cent, of the “business”
that is undertaken in this and the other
Legislatures of Australia. Our multitudin-
ous Parliaments labor under the heavy han-
dicap of a glut of wags, real and bogus, in-
tentional and otherwise. The national
pastime of leg-pulling finds its fullest and
freest opportunity in these resorts. There
are legislators in every House of the
Commonwealth whose whole reputations
stand broad-based on a knack of insulting
interjection or repartee, and a capacity for
making their duller associates appear idiotic
and confused. Bloggs, M.P., is returned
regularly for the great and influential con-
stituency of Blight. His party papers and
organisations take him seriously, at any rate
at election times. Yet it is impossible for
his warmest admirers to point to any stage
of his long and strenuous career whereat
he evolved one new and useful idea and
brought it to fruition; or to indicate five
lines of criticism which were in any way
helpful. Long, senseless and irrelevant
questions, framed palpably to raise a pass-
ing laugh; crude personalities of the sort
that the festive bagman frafficks in when in
his cups; ponderous allusions, archly de-
livered, to the enemy’s alleged moral and
other lapses—with these and similar im-
becilities the time which the country pays
for in hard-borrowed cash is frittered away.
The electors have got so habituated to the
practice of regarding their Parliaments as
freakish variety shows, where everything,
from general assault and battery to the
spectacle of an ex-Minister rolling on the
floor amid a cluster of policemen, appears
more or less appropriate, that they can see
nothing reprehensible in the antics of the
legislative humorist. And yet, more especi-
ally in the National House, where there is
not a moment to spare for frivolling, this
type of merry-maker is almost a public
curse. His efforts at wit would not be en-
dured for two minutes in the Board room
of an ordinary business concern. Why they
should be allowed to hamper the business
of a Commonwealth is one of the Party
Government system’s eternal mysteries.
The Law’s Delays.
A Melbourne paper wrote the other day of
the ‘"monstrous fees” and the ‘‘artificial
methods of piling up costs” by which the
“bleeding of litigants” was carried out in
the United Kingdom. It concluded:
In the English courts the “cost of production,
represented by the expense of securing finality m any
dispute of importance, is certainly high enough to
warn thousands of the public that it is better to
bear with tiieir grievances in silence than to run
the risk of being ruined by an attempt to reach the
founts of justice.
But why mention England when the posi-
tion of Australia is far worse V Despite the
smug assumption of probity which is. the
badge of the whole legal tribe, barrister
and attorney alike, a big section of the pub-
lic is agreed, as the outcome of bitter ex-
perience, that the majority of our men of
law are incomparably more predatory than
the members of those professions which lay
no particular claim to saintliness —doctors,
architects and surveyors, for example. The
profitable operation of bleeding the moneyed
litigant may be witnessed almost any _ day
during term time. It is not done, figuratively
speaking, with a scalpel or other fine wea-
pon, but with the axe. When both parties to a
suit sit behind satisfactory banking accounts,
the Law is, indeed, seen in all its pomp and
majesty. It becomes absolutely imperial in
its disregard' of sordid expense. Demurrers,
objections, interlocutory applications, appli-
cations for postponement, and for the taking
of evidence on commission in any old
region from Greenland to Peru are
hurled round by the dozen. Point after fine
legal point is taken on either side and argued
with splendid assiduity. Nothing of real
value accrues from these operations in 999
cases out of a thousand. But they afford
both Bench and Bar a certain amount of
mild intellectual exercise, and they indicate
energy and keen enthusiasm on the part of
counsel. And they keep the profitable game
of litigation going to the satisfaction of all
hands excepting those who are paying for it.
As a result of the advice on evidence —
which is not tendered till an exact under-
standing has been arrived at in regard to
just how much evidence the litigant’s pocket,
is capable of enduring—the precincts of the
court swarm with nervous, shifty-eyed wit-
nesses at so much per head for expenses,
alcohol and so on. Within the Temple of
Justice the merry jest, the diverting anec-
dote and the futile and irrelevant personal
reminiscence are bandied to and fro. Occa-
sionally there is a burst of bogus fury from
one side or the other, but for the most part
all is frank harmony and profit-sharing
among the legal brethren. The responsibility
for this scandalous state of affairs rests
primarily on the Judge who puts up with it.
If every Judge made a point of rigidly bar-
ring jokes, stories grave and gay, and puns;
if he closed down on every scrap of obviously
useless evidence, and sternly rebuked the
professional gentleman or spieler who was
guilty of foisting it on the Court; if he
declined to hear prolonged argument on
purely academic objections and points of
law; and if he devised some means of pun-
ishing the frequent type of barrister who
takes his fee and then omits to turn up at
the hearing and earn it, the business of the
Court would be vastly expedited. Australia
is really much worse off than England as
regards the difficulty of “securing finality in
any legal dispute of importance.” It is
notorious that many jury cases which in
London would be disposed of in a day are
liable, in Melbourne or Sydney, to take any-
thing up to a week. It is largely a matter
of weak Judges. A dreadful curse is the
weak Judge.
—_.—
A City of Rags.
The suggestion of the Parliamentary select
committee which has just reported on the
increase in Sydney house rents, that canvas
dwellings should be erected at places like
Daceyville and Centennial Park to house
the surplus population, has a fine flavor
about it. No doubt a well-pitched tent is
in every way superior to a hovel in a brick
terrace; but the proposal is not made with
a view to improving the public health. It
is made because under existing conditions
the average wage-earner cannot get a house
at a price he can afford to pay. The
natural increase, immigration and the influx
of people from the depopulated rural areas
have worked, as they were expected to work,
right into the hands of the' Sydney land-
lord, who draws upon the people’s earnings
to the last penny and still can keep his
houses full. The committee recommends
cheaper suburban railways, advances by the
Government Savings Bank to artisans for
the erection of dwellings, and the throwing
open of Crown lands in the suburbs for
building purposes ; but it fails to suggest that
the first and foremost step towards a per-
manent improvement of conditions is the
.carrying out of the policy of decentralisa-
tion" to which the Government is solemnly
pledged. Were the tents to be pitched at
Twofold Bay, Port Jervis or other harbors
along the coast, and if railways were being
rushed to them with all decent speed, the
idea might be one full of cheer. It might
be taken as indicating that the McGowen
Ministry had suddenly awakened to the
fact that it had been unjust to its suppor-
ters. and was now in desperate need of re-
pentance in hessian and cinders, or other
substances suitable to a state of sincere
contrition. Unfortunately the notion of
housing the people under temporary shel-
ters is advanced merely with the idea of
making the congestion of Sydney appear a
little less serious and postponing the day of
reckoning. Babylon was built of bricks,
Athens largely of marble, Memphis of gran-
ite. It remains for a N.S.W. Labor Minis-
try to have the glory of constructing a city
of rags.
University Reform.
“Fitzwilliam,” in reply to the N.S.W.
Minister for Education :
Mr. Carmichael spreads himself (B. 7/11/’l2)
on the subject of the University Bill. The article
contains no more than the usual amount of drivel,
and, though it dodges most of the specific objections
to the Bill, is perhaps worthy of an answer.
The existing Senate has done good work. The
number of undergraduates is now three times as
great as it was 13 years ago ; and though mere size
is no gauge of efficiency, this tends to show that
the increase of the University is more than keeping
pace with that of the State. And Sydney lawyers
and doctors and engineers can at least hold their
own in any part of the world they have yet pene-
trated to. I speak subject to correction; but I
think Dr. Cole is a member of the teaching staff at
Harvard, and Elliott Smith Professor of Anatomy
at Manchester. And the Judges both of the High
and Supreme Courts represent Sydney fairly well.
However, most human institutions are susceptible
of improvement, and the majority of University men
are in favor, probably, of a wider franchise and
a shorter tenure for the Senate. Moreover, there can
be no very strong objection to direct departmental
representation, in view of the fact that the Govern-
ment supplies a large proportion of the funds. But I
find it difficult to see how the introduction of two
Parliamentary representatives could help matters
much. 1 am aware that during the discussion in
the Council some gentleman interjected that if a
man was fit for Parliament he was fit for the
Senate. To which I reply—Maybe. It is even pos-
sible that the University Senate might occasionally
be enlivened by a deftly-flung water-bottle.
I note that the Government has abandoned the
proposal for municipal representation—a clause
which probably sneaked in from one of the British
University Acts. - The omission is a good one. Ido
not know what the standard of municipal intelli-
gence may be in Britain. I do know what it is in
N.S.W., where the average alderman is incapable of
managing a Sunday-school picnic.
But the main point in Mr. Carmichael s letter is
the proposed abolition of fees. This is an eminently
sane idea; but if Mr. Carmichael thinks that the
“working-man’s son” will benefit tuppence by it, he
is mistaken, that’s all. As he points out, the pro-
vision already made for poor men by bursaries and
remission of fees is not fully availed of, but he
apparently thinks that if the same prmcple is
applied to the bread-and-butter faculties, it will
have the desired effect. The offer of a free Univer-
sity education to everybody who applies is very
like the offer of a motor-ear on the same terms—a
poor man couldn’t afford the luxury. It isn t the
cost of preparation for a profession that hurts 5
is the five or more unproductive years that are
spent in training, and the other five years or fifty-
that must be endured bv a professional man without
means or influence before he earns even a living
wage. Take the Bar. If a poor man has sufficient
pluck or luck to save up (say) .-€250 to keep him-
self during his five years’ studentship, which is
hardly an extravagant amount, he would have an
infinitely better chance of getting his money back
by spending it all in Tatt.’s. Success in Tatt. s is
luck; success at the Bar is a miracle. The other
professions are not quite so bad. in their results,
though the time for preparation is as long or longer.
A doctor can probably make a fair income from the
jump, but it takes him nearly seven years to qualifv,
counting the necessary hospital experience. It’s no
use saying that a system of evening lectures would
give the necessary chance. To qualify for a pro-
fession nowadays requires steady work both day
and night. An engineer has the same long training,
but he has the advantage when he gets through
of being sure of a job—in another country. In
this continent the Government is the biggest em-
ployer of engineers, and the wages it pays are about
25 per cent, or thereabouts of what are offered in
almost any other part of the world. And it seepis
insane, somehow, to spend good money m breeding
experts for foreign countries where the value of our
engineers is known. ... «
No, the poor man’s son who worries about a profes-
sion is a fool. I don’t mean a common fool, but a
fool of the hero sort. Professional prizes are good,
but scarce. The initial risk is a big one, and for
the average man impossible, as it involves at least five
unproductive years. And failure, the failure of an
prinon f ed mnn, is Tl<klps. Tho man who has
enough to take the chances, takes them; and the
extra £l5O or so for fees, spread over five years,
does not deter him, and their abolition wont en-
courage him, because he doesn’t want encouragement.
♦
The Majesty of the Law and the Mercy
of Holman.
A batch of papers recently laid on the
table of N.S.W. Assembly, and issued by the
Government Printer last week, dragged
from the grave of the Past the case of Alice
Wilkins, a 12-year-old Burwood girl who
in November 19, 1911, smote another eight-
year-old child. When the case came before
the court the prosecution was represented
by a solicitor; the defence was conducted by
the father of the accused, who was too poor
to fee a Blue Pointer, M. PI. Fitzhardinge,
D.S.M., was on the Bench; and haying
decided against the side without any legal as-
sistance, he dealt out a fine of £1 and costs
£1 145.. with the alternative of 14 days
hard labor — lb days’ hard labor for a little
12-year-old girl! Probably M. H. Pitz-
hardinge, D.S.M., thought the child s
father would scrape up the fine somehow,
and let her go. But the father couldn t. He
had a family of five to support on a daily
wage of 7s. 9d.; and at the time it was a
very afflicted family. The eldest child was
an epileptic, another was in a plaster ot
Paris mould owing to some injury; and a
third, a voung baby, was ill. Owing to
financial stress, the mother had to leave
these sick children and go out working to
assist her husband to make ends meet.
Under the circumstances, the father peti-
tioned Holman to remit the savage ciltei-
native and treat the child as a first offender,
and by remitting her to his care, save her
the horror of 14 days’ hard labor. Holman
refused (and will probably sweat blood tor
it before he is through) ; so, after some
delav. the 12-year-old girl was arrested, de-
tained in the cells at Burwood and then
sent to Darlinghurst Police Station to be
taken to the Women’s Penitentiary at Long
Bay. And to Long Bay she would have
gone, but the police rebelled at having to do
such barbarous work, and, opening a sub-
scription list among themselves, collected
enough to pay fine and costs, and sent the
child home. What some member should
now do is call for a list of the penalties im-
posed by M. H. Fitzhardinge, D.S.M., for
assault, battery, wife-beating and stealing,
and see how his treatment of this child
compares with that he deals out to seasoned
sluggers and .offenders against property. And
another might move for a return of penal-
ties remitted by Attorney-General Holman,
and see how they compare with his helpless-
ness to save this little girl from gaol.
— — ♦
A PHIAL of vitriol strays in from the N. Ter-
ritory : ... , ,
Talk of the pride of birth, the sickening hauteur
of Royal Courts and the intolerant swank of Jeames
Yellowplush ! None of these objectionable things
is in it with the antics of some of the drab little
officials whom the Fisher Administration has re-
cently despatched to these parts. We can swallow
an “Excellency,” and a “Suite” and an imitation
Government House atmosphere—a sort of simulacrum
of a shadow as it were. But what think you mf
this? A Pine Creek woman took her seat, the other
day ' in a first-class “ladies only” compartment of
the Darwin to Pine Creek train. She had three
children with her, and one of them was a baby, and
ailing at that. Also, she had paid her fare. Along
came the wife of a high official (not the official,
mark you, but his wife —a person of no authority
or status whatever), and had the Pine Creeker and
infants bundled out, and into the only other first-
class compartment in the tram —which was, inci-
dentally, a smoker crowded with men. Nor is this
the first occurrence of the kind. A few weeks earlier
a girl was similarly requested to spend a hot day
in a carriage filled with men and smoke, or miss the
train. And, as an example of how catching this
disease is, a day or so later the wife of one of
.Toslah Thomas’s new officials inflicted herself on
the occupants of the smoker, because “she wasn’t
o-oing to travel in the same compartment as the wife
of one of her husband’s men —the idea of such people
travelling first-class!” (N.B. —“Such people” travel
first-class up here not because they enioy paying more
money, but because the second-class cars are for
many Vea e ons unendurable to white women.) ,r h"
sort of official that is needed in a sparsely settled
region like this is one who is enpugh of a man of
the world to be quite onsnobbish, ami who displays
horse-sense in his social dealings with those
whom he meets. The manners and customs of such
a one are, as a rule, automatically reflected in his
family; if they aren’t, he usually has a few de-
cisive remarks to make on the subject. It is a
thousand pities that the Fisher Government couldn’t
see its way to supply us with a few Panjandrums of
this description. For one thir.g, it would have made
for peace and harmony, than which nothing is more
essential to a small community. As it isn’t so, I
hereby move that Josiah Thomas immediately pro-
vide a State car for the use of his more specta-
cular officials. Otherwise an enraged citizen, whose
wife has been insulted and done out of that which
she has duly paid for, will be arising shortly and
rudely pushing someone of prominence through the
nearest window.
■
To the mere private citizen, accustomed to
decide between breakfast time and the
boarding of his morning train whether he
will buy laee-up boots or tan shoes, the
question of the uniform railway gauge for
Australia has already passed far be-
yond the stage of argument. But
politicians can’t and don’t do things
in the sudden way in which Mary
buys soap or Tom books seats for the play.
After years of discussion and argument, re-
presentative engineers of the States and
Commonwealth are going to meet together
and discuss and argue some more about the
right gauge. After that there will probably
be a period of rest, during which the en-
gineers’ conclusions will be allowed to ripen,
or simmer, or something, and then the thing
will probably be pigeon-holed or forgotten
until there is a change of Ministries all
round, whereupon the matter will be re-
awakened, and some other engineers will be
called together to discuss and argue some
m6re. Yet the business is urgent. Day by
day and week by week Australian young-
sters are being trained to meet a possible
foe, and the bald fact stands that the Com-
monwealth hasn’t got the machinery to take
them with speed and effectiveness to face
that enemy if he should arrive. What is
wanted at the present moment is not a con-
ference of engineers to decide what should
be done, but an emphatic statement on the
oart of all the Premiers concerned that the
thing which they all know should be done
is going to be begun next week. Even the
farcical conference which is to be held
might be tolerated if it meant getting
straight to business ; but the trouble is that
such a conference is merely a_ cog in the
great wheel of shirk, and that its sole pur-
pose is to provide excuse for further de-
lays, and reason for vexatious talk about
State rights and parish grievances. Mean-
while the other chap is sharpening his gun
and putting nails in his marching boots.
- ♦
George D. Meudell, from the housetop—
Iceberg Irvine, M.H.R., born in Dundalk, Ireland
—alleged to be a most distressful country—lately
told a mothers’ meeting of the Australian Women’s
National Dorcas Society that Australians suffered
from moral anosmia, and were always looking for a
post, preferably a Government one, to lean against.
That’s a slander which is likely to cost Irvine his
seat next election. For what are the facts ? AVe
Australians are the hardest-working, most skilful,
most intelligent, best made in bone and blood, richest
and most charming people in the world. Ive
travelled 400,Q00 miles in 38 countries, and have
seen all the other peoples and tribes, even Jack
Johnson’s, in their own cities and jungles. Our' men
and women physically are the peers af every other
race, excepting, perhaps, the Norwegians and Swedes.
The prettiest women in the world come from Odessa,
Stockholm and Hobart, in that order, lhe. finest
men come from the llawkesbury River (N.S.W.*),
Christiania (Norwav), and the valley of the South
j.y-k (Scotland). And here follows the* record of
what our fathers and ourselves have done in the
newest, as ft is the oldest and the best country on
earth. The Sydney peopl# have created out of
nothing, which Robert Inqersoll once described as
most unpromising raw material, the strongest private
bank and the most successful mutual life assurance
office in the world. In 50 years they’*; made Sydney
the sixth shipping port for tannage in the greatest
Empire this civilisation bus so far seen. It is
also nearly Dm most beautiful city an earth, bar
ebec and Edinburgh. In 50 years Australia has
produced £.7.50,000,000 of minerals, and by its
gold output, from 1852 to 1872, Australia created
the British Ennrre! It was neither steam, nor Free-
trade, nor Manchester, nor Nelson, nor even, a com-
bination of them, that made Britain Great. It was
good Australian gold. Without Australian gold
to form the basis of her credit, Great Britain would
to-day be a decent little place busy catching and
salting herrings, making a little lace (a trick learnt
from the Huguenots), brewing dashed (rood beer and
stout, because of good local water, and making and
coloring burnous, handkerchiefs, and cummerbunds
for all the colored peoples living within coo-ee of
the Equator. Without our Australian gold, London
could never have become the chief moneylender,
pawnbroker, and, therefore, shipping nation of the
globe For ships were needed to carry' the lent goods
—not gold, mark you—to all the other countries
under Britain’s commercial suzerainty, by reason of
our gold. Australia has the most bank deposits, the
most savings bank depos ts, the best birthrate, the
lowest deatbiate, the finest hind laws, the biggest
wool output and the finest wheat in the world. Aus-
tralia also uroduees the best horses, cattle, meat,
butter, rabhits, copper, sugar and fruits known
to Europe’s merchants. Australia has the greatest
silver mine, the best copper mine, the richest gold
mine and the largest tin mine, as well as the
biggest coalfield, in one spot, on earth.. Our import
and export trade is the largest per head, and so is
our local shipping. Epidemic disease is the smallest,
crime statistics the lowest, milk supply and food the
purest, deaths under 12 months the fewest, and old
age pensions at 10s. a week the highest known to


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OE THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . .and . . .
" MACKIE'S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
f" Estab". 1768
Estab. 1742
Time is the stuff that life is made of—
Don’t waste it in mere picture shows where comfort and ele-
gance are entirely lacking; instead,
Enjoy life in our luxurious theatres
built especially for public convenience, safety, and health.
Melba and Britannia, Melbourne.
Crystal Palace, Lyric, Colonial, Empress,
Sydney.
The Empress, Wellington, New Zealand.
r WHERE 1
EVERYBODY
V COES J
humanity. We get more sun warmth and good
weather than any place outside Southern Europe, and
our population weighs more and measures more than
any other people. Also, Commonwealth figures show
the average property of each adult to be £744, or a
total of about £1,725,000,000, for a population of
say) 4,650,000. Lean up against a post, do we,
and need to be Powellised, do we? Thank' God,
we’ll never be Irvinised to keep us cold, stagnant
and frozen. We have produced world-beaters in
almost every line of human activity. Iceberg Irvine
has bumped into his Titanic this trip, and with what
folly! P.S. —I’m sorry I ever formed the Kyabram
League.
A punter contrasts the ways of the Chil-
dren of Israel with those of the Tote :■ —-
The recent improvements at Flemington show
the urgent need for that greatest improve-
ment of all—the Tote. Though the paddock
betting ring has been enlarged, on Cup Day
it was such a seething mass of pushing
backers, that Patrick Moses couldn’t hold out his
fist for the cash of eager punters without encountering
the fingers of a brother Ikey. Women are not al-
lowed to bet in Victoria: but even if they were,
none would dare venture into that mass. On the
Hill a worse pandemonium reigned. The brethren
bad been shifted from their old positions in front of
the Hill Stand to the western slope. This slope
is as steep, and on Derby and Cup Days it was as
slippery, as the road to Gehenna. Also it was as
crowded as that unquiet place is supposed to be.
O’Joshua stood it on Saturday, and got wet and
muddy, and angry; but on Tuesday he defied the
authorities and went where the spirit moved him.
Some of him returned to the old spot, and stayed
there; more of him developed an unseemly habit of
wandering all over the place, so that a man who
backed a winner with some Coiien near the scratch-
ing board might, when he went to collect the cash,
discover him in the middle of the picnic ground—or
he might not. In fact, he might not discover him
at all. Of course, all these Abrahams are regis-
tered and guaranteed, and application at the V.R.C.
office next day would ensure payment of the wager ;
but that was no good to the man who wanted to put
some of his winnings on a prad for the next race.
Also, everybody doesn’t know of this arrangement,
and if Everybody did, it might not suit him to
chase round town after a few shillings. Anyhow, a
number of people were earnestly seeking the elusive
Israelite after the Cup and other races, and many
are still seeking him. Now the Tote doesn’t take
all this space or cause all this bother. It is simply
a number of small windows in a wall, with certain
numbers overhead and telephone wires la d on. Also,
the Tote doesn’t wander about to the annoyance of
successful backers. And it always pays out all it
lakes in, less the usual 10 per cent. Moses doesn’t.
Died last week at Waverley, aged 75,
Obed West, second son of the late Obed and
grandson of Thomas West, who came to
Sydney in 1800. Obed was born in Pitt
Row —now Pitt-street—in 1807, on the spot
where Iloffnung’s Buildings now stand. In
1804 a grant of 75 acres was made to
Thomas West, and the estate, which he
named Barcom Glen, stretched from Oxford-
street to Rushcutter Bay. Thomas estab-
lished a flourmill there, and most of the
Scarce inhabitants of that nart also drew
their water supply from it—for a considera-
tion. Tom’s son, Obed 1., was the winner of
the first gold medal awarded for rifle-shoot-
ing in the colony.
A curious cable appeared in Sydney Sun
one night last week. It was to the effect
that Australian circles in London under-
stood that W. M. Hughes might be appointed
Chairman of the Inter-State Commission, at
£3OOO per annum for seven years. It looks
like the champion case of political kite-flying.
Evidently the brilliant, tricky Hughes is
looking for a comfortable rlace to land when
the time comes to get out. In some respects
it is bad news for Australia; because, though
Hughes is very often wrong, he supplies
more brains to the Federal Labor party
than any other man in it. A party with a
big leader could well do without Hughes’s
trickiness; but unfortunately the Labor
party hasn’t got a big leader.
“Bobstay”: Good old mouldy British
Board of Trade again! The immigrant
steamer Irishman has just arrived at Ade-
laide with a virulent outbreak of measles
among the children. There were 50 infected ;
six had died and several others were landed
at Adelaide in a serious condition. The
Irishman was built for a cargo and cattle
ship, but as “anything is good enough for
immigrants,” the Board of Trade made no
bones about pouching its fee and issuing a
certificate which enabled the ship to herd
human passengers aboard. Other vessels
have reached Australia with the Board of
(Trade certificate, much to the astonishment
of local authorities, but the Irishman, with
its tlirown-together accommodation ’tween
decks (even the hospital was there!) and
its load of stricken children, about takes the
cake. In fact, it takes the whole visible
flour supply.
“The Press Joint”: Holman is a glutton
for work. Here is a list of Bills (most of
them at the second reading stage) which he
has at present before the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment :—-
Early Closing and Saturday Half-holiday, Vine and
Vegetation Diseases and Fruit Pests, Pastures Pro-
tection, Coroners, Parliamentary . Privileges, Coal
Mines Regulation, Mines Inspection, Scaffolding and
Lifts, Factories and Shops. Miners Accident Relief,
Friendly Societies, Liquor. Banks and Bank Holidays,
Public Works, Water, District Courts, Inebriates,
Gaming and Betting, Dentists, Claims Against the
Government and Crown Suits, Careless Use of Fire,
Medical Practitioners, Government Railways, Jury,
Defamation, Small Debts Recovery, Companies, Su-
preme Court 'Procedure, Public Trustee, Marriage, and
Inter-State Maintenance Orders.
It is a remarkable procession, and gives an
idea of the value Holman is to the Cabinet.
In fact, I have heard whispers that he is
the Cabinet.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Ben Hur.”
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Palace “A Woman of Impulse.”
Criterion “The Gambler's Sweetheart.”
Adklphi “ At Cripple Creek.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum ipeneer’s Pictures.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial Continuous Pictures.
Empress Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palai ::. . . . Continuous Pictures, etc.
Glaciarium | ... ~ n . ,
Olympia } Wests Pictures -
Eden Gardens, Manly.. The Dandies. •
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .... “ Nightbirds.”
Princess’s “The Girl,Without a Home.”
King’s “ The Span of Life.”
Royal “ Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Opera House Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
VVnmis’ Park Wirtiis’ Circus.
Arcadia, St. Hilda ... The Dandies.
♦
Bloodshed and devastation raging in the
Balkans, and “The Quaker Girl” worthily
upholding the principles of the Society of
Friends at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) ! There
is an impressive sermon herein if one of
the brethren who make a trade of drawing
moral lessons could but be turned on to the
job. Who ever heard of a Bulgarian
Quaker Girl? No-one! Like every other
peace-propagandist, the Quaker is the pro-
duct of lands which have not felt the prod
of a hostile bayonet for generations. It
would go far to discount the Bulgar’s de-
light at his victory over the hated Turk did
be but realise all he loses in never hav-
ing any chance to know people like
CAUSE AND EFFECT AT THE
TIVOLI (SYDNE Y).
“The Village Blacksmith.”
Blanche Browne and Bertie Wright—repre-
sentative Quakers of the best and brightest
sort. It might also depress him if he appre-
ciated the tragedy of his lot in never being
likely to encounter such charming and tal-
ented folks as Grace Palotta, Jessie Lonnen
and Ivy Schilling—typical members of a
high-class Quaker set. But would it induce
him to turn anti-militarist, even if the full
gloom of his situation were brought home
to him ? When he thinks of the number of
times he has been massacred, perhaps it
wouldn’t.
** * *
“Ben Hur,” having got his sky-pilot’s cer-
tificate of merit, has pasted the valuable
document on his advertising chariot, and
announces for the benefit of parties of school
children that he is now prepared to race
and make love in a high-toned way at re-
duced rates for matinges. The Theatre
Royal’s educational syllabus will probably
be arranged like this :
2 —-Ancient History of the Hurs, with Sidelights
Mrs. liur
2.15 — Demonstration of Galley-slaving and Life-
saving Mr. Ben Hur
2.30 —Logic and Household Economy. .Mr. Simonides
2.45 —Singing and Marching. .. .Respectable Pagans
3.lo—Singlet Dancing and Abandon. ... Staff Hussies
3.2o—Goings-on, Ashore and Afloat
Miss Iras and Mr. Hur
3.40 Betting in all its Branches
Mr. Sanballet and Assistants
3.50 —Chariot Racing
Messrs. Hur, Messala and Alsoran
4.15 — Quarantine Practice Mrs. and Miss Hur
4.40 Choir Practice
s.s—Miracle Working ?
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Chorister
References are kindly permitted to the Revs.
Blank Dash and Dash Blank.
** * * *
Randolph Bedford will pluck his “Unseen
Eye” from the Sydney Palace to-morrow
night, and the cavity will be filled on Satur-
day evening by a “Woman of Impulse.” As
per announcement, “the scene of this im-
pressive play is laid in London, and the
characters are types to be found in the high-
est social and diplomatic circles.” Leaders of
Australian diplomatic circles like Peter
Bowling, Harry Coyne (of Brisbane), the
Colonial Sugar Co., and a few others are
cordially invited to attend and give their
brother and sister strategists the glad hand.
“Struck Oil,” the moral melodrama, will
make way at the Sydney Criterion on Sat-
urday for “The Gambler’s Sweetheart,”
whose morals are not announced.
Cripple Creek, which was to have been
drained off from the Adelphi to-morrow
night, has been given seven days’ grace, and
will trickle till the end of next week. Then,
like the Cotter, it will dry up and blow
away.
When Jansen did the egg and bag trick it
was appreciated ; the edge was showing signs
of wear when Margo did it at the Tivoli;
and it had developed into a nuisance by the
time De Bierre came along to the same hall,
and repeated it without anv appreciable
change. But De Bierre has one or two
tricks that haven’t been seen here for at
least two years. With the help of a handy
screen and a ’‘double,” he manages to bring
out some illusions at which the pop-eyed
marvel. The tied-thumb trick and the sculp-
turing illusion are especially clever; so this
paper, while not wildly enthusiastic, doesn’t
quarrel with the management for spilling
much ink over De XXX. Nella Webb,
Mozetto (last lap), D’Arc’s Marionettes
and Marini are still on the paysheet. Next
Saturday, Will Whitburn, the Rallis and
the Wilson trio will join them.
The delay of the English mail upset the
Sydney picture shows on Monday; but they
were able to carry on with their reserve
stock. At the Crystal Palace, the attrac-
tion is “Volto,” who is claimed to be a
human storage-battery, and when he is fully
charged, say with 60,000 volts., he invites
the public to light its cigar on his ear or
his necktie. “Volto” will carry on his pre-
carious job until further notice.
** * *
Hedley and Bartlett lead the van at the
National Amphitheatre. They are Musical
Mokes, which, on the authority of the in-
valuble Webster, signifies persons who play
on several instruments. T ; hey also sing
several songs and earn several cheers. Maud
Faning is back, likewise Gus Harris. What
a duet this clarion-voiced pair could render
if they agreed to combine ! Violet Black
is still doing well, and the Elliott sisters
and Boy Rene remain on the bill.
* * * *
“Nightbirds” has been drawing the festive
racegoer to Her Majesty’s (Melb.) in large
quantities. Altogether this Strauss opera is
a joyous affair; even the bored young noble-
man and the stout prison governor do not
ask to be taken seriously. When this paper
last looked in on “Nightbirds,” Charles
Albert was the Count wlioy would a-wooing
go, and he seemed less droll, but a more suit-
able husband for Flo Young than ex-Count
Cannot. Mention of Miss Young moves this
“And Then I Tickled Her Instep.”
journal to exhort the lingering diner-out to
arrive at the theatre before 8.10, at which
time Flo changes into her pink dressing-
gown, in full view of the limelight man. The
approval with which this incident is received
suggests that a dress-clianging ballet would
prove a welcome circumstance in these
nights of popular education. And a stock-
ing-changing chorus would probably cause
the whole of the ground floor to be reserved
for six weeks in advance.
Wallingford, at the Royal, is getting-rich-
quicker than the local punter has a chance
of doing on the odds offered by Sandy
McCohen. The thin story of the beautifully-
tailored Fiji uncle, who rose to higher things
on stepping-stones of his dead honesty, is
helped along by brisk acting, and the play
keeps a fairly tight grip upon the attention
of the audience until the unnecessary last
act, when the _ dull platitude that turneth
away interest is exploited with irritating
persistence. After three acts devoted to the
glorification of crookedness, a fourth, urging
that honesty pays the best dividends, merely
because a couple of “crooks?’ have come by
comparatively lronest wealth through an ac-
cident of commerce, is a Chadbandish ex-
crescence. It is g sop to conventional mor-
ality, on a par with the beautifully moral
teaching hf “Camille,” to the effect that the
broad path leadeth to consumption. During
the week Miss Josephine Cohan, the expert
typiste, who operates her machine with three
fingers, was out of the cast, and her place
was taken by Beatrice Holloway.
Society will Sin no more at the Princess’s
after Friday night. That is to say, it will
not sin any more on Drury Lane lines,
which are so foreign to Marlow-drama that
these latter-day patrons of the house in
Spring-street have not warmed to the story
of Lady Marion and the diamond ta-ra-ra.
Popular-priced opinion is favorable, as a
rule, to any drama that hinges on a woman’s
honor; but when that honor is preserved
from calumny by being passed along in a
cardboard box to the keeping of a mild
young man who disappears under unaccount-
able circumstances, even the honor of the
leading lady loses the amphitheatre’s in-
terest. So “The Sins of Society” is about
to be withdrawn. On Saturday the same co.
will present “The Girl Without a Home,”
billed as another of Mrs. Morton Powell’s
sensational successes.
At the King’s they are reviving “The
Span of Life” until further notice, and the
rolling ocean continues to roll against the
Collin Rocks where the lighthouse warns
the villain’s heavily-insured vessel of its
imminent peril. As a matter of fact, the
light in the turret has gone out for want
of oil, and the villain, after putting two
bullets into Cyril Mackay’s seat of indiges-
tion, hopes to be present at a shipwreck;
but Mackay somehow contrives to ring a
bell and hang out a danger signal, whereby
the marine disaster is averted. After which,
the whole of the Anderson co. migrates to
Africa for a time, and the villain fails in
some more endeavors. His only notable
success is the poisoning of a bunch of grapes
with a hypodermic syringe. This appears
to send him to the gallows on a charge of
murder with malice aforethought. Mean-
while, three acrobats have furnished the
drama with its title by forming the boneless
bridge that leads to the restoration of the
missing papers.
Margaret Cooper’s stay at the Athemeuin
Hall concludes on Saturday. Till the end of
this month the saucy songstress will flit
around Victoria, ere proceeding to the
West, and departing thence for S’Africa.
Margaret’s entertainment, apart from her
own particular part of it, is brighter than
it was aforetime, and Melbourne will miss
the pungent little lady when she’s gone.
There are no material changes in this
week’s bill at the Melbourne Opera House,
the arrival of Marie Quintrell, a soprano
balladist, having failed to cause anything
in the nature of a furore. Miss Florence
Baines, songangag artist, still occupies the
most prominent place on the menu, which
also mentions Taylor and Arnold, the white
hopes of the ragtime profession; the Max
Franklin acrobats, who inspire unenthusias-
tic respect, and the Macarte Sisters, Cale-
donian geishas, or something of the kind.
There is as yet no mentiofi of the last nights
of the Three Keltons, biit their end will
surely come. No matter how good or other-
wise a turn may be, its end must come. The
grass witheretli; the moving finger writes;
and even the sun and moon shall pass away.
Wirths’ Circus is only remaining in Mel-
bourne until Saturday. Then the elephants,
bears and lions, and the fat cowboys with
the King O’Malley hats, and the galaxy of
star performers headed by the upside-down
man will go touring as before. One of the
ilump cowboys was recently fined for break-
ing a cow’s horn, but Hilary Hong has not
thusfar been called to account for his persist-
ent attempts to dislocate his unprecedented
neck. Anyway, it is his own neck.
“ The Sculptor's Dream.”
When Tiie Bulletin visited Melbourne
Majestic last week, Red Fox, the poacher,
was spending some crowded moments with
a donah to the right of him, a donah to the
left of him, and large and breathless keepers
foaming curses in his rear. Between the
women and the keepers, Red Fox gets more
excitement _ than he needs, and in the last
few flicks is downed and outed by the men,
while his best-beloved Lizzie becomes a lone
and splendid corpse. A more tedious drama
was “The Change of Spirit,” showing the
reforming influence of love on a hard-faced
burglar; and “Barriers Burned Away” was
a budget of views illustrating how a Yankee
blizzard became the reconciling influence in
a separated family. Like other picture
houses, this week the Majestic is filming
“The Balkan Blaze,” wherein is featured
the preliminary movements of Abdul the
Dashed.
“The Prison Ship,” which was shown at
Spencer’s Melbourne house last week, bore
reference to a period when the Amurkan
rose up with a gun and a few bars of
“Yankee Doodle,” and chased Britain’s
somewhat-German soldiers over the edge of
the map. The blessings of Spencer’s public
fall on this film, which besides dash also
supplies gentle love-making with a maiden
named Ruth. The second favorite was
“With the Enemy’s Help,” a tale of claim-
jumping with a background of rugged Amur-


COULDN’T GET lIIS BREATH.
“My little son occasionally gets so bad with croup
that he cannot get his breath,” says Mrs. N. P.
Lewis, Mile End, Adelaide (S.A.). “I just follow
the directions on the Aiottle of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, and he is soon completely cured. I never
to bed without a bottle of it in the house, for I
never know when my little son will be attacked
with this most dreadful complaint. I always feel
safe with Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy by me.”*
Burroughs, Wellcome and Co. have issued their
“Wellcome Photo. Exposure Record and Diary.” for
1913. In 280 pages is packed just about all the
amateur wants to know, as well as a diary for ex-
posure notes. The only secret not divulged is how to
supply photos, to everybody who wants “just one”
without going insolvent. Price is Is. 3d., and the
book is small enough for the pocket.*
810-SHOWMEN!
T~ HERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
Xo Agents:
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1912
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations by “Hop,” Alf Vincent,
Norman Lindsay and all the leading represen-
tative artists, will be the finest Black and
White Work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the National humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the
annual reflection of the life and thoughts of our
country, and therefore useful as well as inter-
esting.
Ayents will be supplied at the usual rates,
but, in consequence of the heavy outlay on this
Special Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS EOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 16th NOVEMBER to en-
sure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign Addressee, 9d.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT A\D KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE 'ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’ Phone No. 330 Central.
Skttlkmbnts Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
kan scenery. “Lucile,” a U.S. setting of
Owen Meredith’s yarn, supplied length
without much strength; and the “comics”
ranged from the mild frivolity of “Tommy’s
Flight” to the inoffensive absurdity of “Molly
Learns to Mote.”
“GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD, ”
AT MELB.
ROYAL.
One of the Boohs.
Harry Corson Clarke as
“Blackie” Daw.
Claire Romaine lias arrived at Adelaide
Tivoli. She is a daughter of Edward Solo-
mon, the composer, and is a sort of good-
looking Nellie Earren. As a “male imper-
sonator” she prefers the sac suit and the
boyish air, and mostly presents the preco-
cious type for whom any immature house-
maid is an object of swift pursuit. “I
haven’t told my mother yet,” is the burden
of his song, or “If you can’t have a
cuddle at 17, I’d like to know when you
can.” The lady gets the last ounce out of
her material; and the loud chuckles of the
citizen who has had two drinks at the inter-
val seem to show that he gets even more
than that. At the King’s is “La France.”
She is a slim and pretty Australian girl
who has colored lantern-effects thrown at
her, whereby she appears to have a mer-
maid’s tale, or butterfly’s wings, or to be
standing outside a church robed in furs. The
effects are clever, and the turn is highly
popular; also, it is entirely (and to some
people unexpectedly) Proper.
* * * *
Other Adelaide shows are unusually
numerous. Branscombe’s “Dandies” got a
welcome-back from an Exhibition simply
packed; they have since got out into the
open air, where they rightly belong. At
Henley Beach are “Arcadians,” in the open,
too. Fasola and his miracles are having a
short stay at the Exhibition, and just oppo-
site the Wondergraph pictures have taken
up their summer pitch. This leaves the
Town Hall free, and concert-givers have
rushed it —Glee Club, Bach Society and
others to follow. At the Royal is an Irish
boom, with Allen Doone and Miss Edna
Keeley expounding a gentle, genial Hiber-
nian doctrine that takes no account of Red-
mond and O’Brien factions. Business is
very brisk. .
Major Crouch wrote in the S. M. Herald
last week: —
One of the things which interested me was to
learn that the Japanese War Office regularly receives
eight , of the leading Australian papers, and that all
references to the defence matters of the Common-
wealth are systematically filed. I thought I knew
a little about our navy, but the amount of intimate
information which 1 heard in Japan about our
naval preparations from English-speaking Japanese
was an eye-opener. "
Such sidelights make the Peace Society more
optimistic than usual, fill the anti-militarist
with confidence, and satisfy Bruce Smith
that our splendid ally has no more idea of
forcibly adopting Australia that he has of
burgling the planet Jupiter.
Sydney Daily Telegraph last week ad-
vanced the amazing theory that a Senate
which does not represent State Frights has
failed in its mission and might as well be
wiped out. If the people who elect the Sen-
ate choose men who are opposed to State
Frights, that makes no difference —the fact
that they belong to the Senate which was
created to represent the States makes it im-
perative that they should voice the views of
the anti-Eederal State Governments. It never
occurs to the Telegraph to upend the
thing, and demand that the State Govern-
ments should carry into effect the views of
the wholly-elected Senators.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“J.F.H.” (London): William Moore has not yet
“placed” any of the plays of the Melbourne drama-
tists, but he has done something—he has got the
opinions of some of the leading dramatic critics.
Spence, of the Westminster, devotes a column to
their consideration. The ablest of them is, he says,
Louis Esson’s “Dead Timber,” expressing with vigor
a farmer’s struggle for existence in the Gippsland
bush. It is “vivid and dramatic,” and likely to
affect an audience deeply. “The Woman Tamer,” a
story of Melbourne push society, employs a vocabu-
lary that baffles Spence, but he is clearly of the
opinion that Esson is a “skilful dramatist with ideas
of his own.” Of Moore’s “Tea-Room Girl” he
says: “This is a clever and rather curious experi-
ment.” Spence concludes with the hope that “some
London manager will make an experiment with these
works, or some of them.” He adds: “Though of
small and not quite startling quality, they show
much ability, and prove that Australia will soon to a
great extent free herself from the bondage of the
British touring system, and develop the dramatic
gifts of her children.”
“Screen” : One swallow does not make summer, but
one bush rainbird may indicate a deluge. The
first advt. of the auctioning of’a picture show has
just appeared *in Melbourne. Biographs may be a
joy for ever, but this does not preclude a slump.
Melbourne city has nine every-night picture shows;
the suburbs have 13 very big ones, with a host of
occasional and out-of-doors. All this is a prodigious
strain even for a Capua like Melbourne, taking
account of theatres, half a dozen shows on St. Kilda
beach, etc. As for pictures, a leading manager tells
me that all the combined energies of the providores
cannot furnish Australia with more than a dozen
first-rate pictures every week.
‘^Adelaide”: The par. (B. 31/10/’l2) about Wybert
Reeve’s stage history omits the item in which he
himself took most pride. He was offered the lead
in something good at Manchester, but did not find
it convenient, having more attractive offers else-
where. “There’s a young Irving who could do it,”
he said to the management. “Give him a chance.”
So Henry had his chance, and climbed straight up
from that moment. Wybert himself stood still; but
the more Irving soared above him the more pleasure
he took in the memory of that incident.
“Snell”: I never had any particular respect for
elocution in the home, and on the boards it is a most
unfortunate gift the moment the actor gets down to
actual men and manners. Erie Moxon was dealt
great praise for his elocution in “Ben Ilur,” and
certainly was unobiecfionably theatrical as the ex-
tremely stagey B. Hur. But when he attempted to
play the work-a-day hero in a typical melodrama of
our time, the effect produced was a dream of a very
efficient young curate trying to apply his pulpit at-
titudes and accents to the business of selling whelks.
The beauteous Miss Ethel Warwick, who was in
Australia a while ago, has lately been running a
London theatre with a revival of “Zaza”—which is a /
mighty strong play as long as the heroine remains
giddy, and deplorably weak when she turns good, in
the English translation. Alas! it is the fate of all
English versions of French plays to be Wowserised
in the last act.
The wife of Wallace, the composer, was a Miss
Kelly, of Dublin. She accompanied him to Sydney,
where they separated. They did not meet again,
although she lived on until 1900. A few years be-
fore she died there was a London benefit for her,
under Cardinal Vaughan’s patronage. There was one
son of this marriage; he died in the Charterhouse.
In later years Wallace supplied the provisions for
another lady’s house. They had two sons, both of
whom suicided in America. This is the lady referred
to in some biogranhies as Mrs. Wallace, who was
with the composer when he died in the Pyrenees. 1 *
REALISM AT ANY COST.
Persuading the “Ben Hur” camel to kneel.
(The said ca[?] is about the only individual
these days that really does not believe he pos-
sesses histrionic ability.)
“Vaudevillain”: Mclntosh, the new director of the
Eickards circuit, states that De Biere, the magician
engaged from London Empire, receives £145 a week
on the voyage and £290 a week while showing.
About a thou, will be paid out before De Biere be-
gins to flow. Cissy Loftus will be paid (if Me is
not bearing false witness) £3OO a week. Warm,
very warm, as Billy Elton used to say. Cis will
show eight times a week, 15 minutes each appear-
ance, a total of two hours’ work at £2 10s. a
minute. I am faintly sceptical whether De Biere
and Loftus will turn over a divvy for Mcßickards,
but the advt. is worth the .loss of a few sovs. Most
managers, by the way, are accused of multiplying
their figures when they talk of their artists’ salaries;
but Mclnsplosh says he doesn’t know the multiplica-
tion table, and isn’t going to learn.
There has been organised in Sydney a vocal co. of
a type numerous and popular in England, and in
Europe generally; but almost unknown in Aus-
tralia, namely, a professional quartette open to sing
at functions where jollity and chortling are com-
bined with “good taste” and “culchaw.” This new
band of vocal buccaneers has styled itself “The Har-
monists,” and comprises Percy Coward, alto ; Charles
Wright, tenor ; Charles Larsen, baritone; and Harold
Widdop, basso. They have hung out a shingle at.
Nicholson’s, and in announcing serenading as a
specialty, hint that there is no reason why the mid*,
night warble beneath the twinkling stars should be'
confined to Spain and Italy.
“Screen”: A fourth good picture theatre is opened’
with excellent prospects on the south side of Princes;
Bridge (Melbourne). This is the Snowden, facing
Snowden Gardens. The history of shows on the south
side began with Cooper and Bailey. Then followed
Chiarini, Cole, Wijspn and Fillis. Fillis was the
first to build in iron, a device afterwards followed
by the Fitzgeralds. Next Wirths got the site and
constructed Olympia for their circus, and when that
odorous joy had departed, West took the house over.
Later on the circus brethren built the Hippodrome,
whereupon West built his own theatre, Spencer took
Olympia and Taits showed in the Glaciarium. These
three big places are still going strong, notwithstand-
ing that the Majestic is flickering over the river in
Flind»rs-street, while the city is infested with strenu-
ous rivals.
Interviewed by N.Y. Times, Oscar Hammerstein
allows that he produced Lord Howard de Walden’s
puerile “The Children of Don,” at London Opera
House, because the noble author made it worth
while to the extent of £20,000. This relieves the
newspapers’ puzzlement as to why the awful stuff
was produced at all. As the Howard de Waldens
own 292 acres of London, the £20,000 is a mere
“petty cash” item to thp titled librettist.
The long-threatened All Irish show, which starts in
Melbourne early next month, includes a consignment
of the Ould Sod. A lot of earth from each of the
four provinces of the distressful country arrived by
mail steamer the other day, and this is to be worked
into the programme of the picture, song and story
entertainment aforesaid. Cinematograph illustra-
tions of “Ireland To-day” are only part of the appeal.
Colored slide pictures will be used as a setting to the
incidental ballads; also various “exhibits” are to
figure in the proceedings. The circular that was
issued from Dublin some time back promised a show
that should interest even the public outside the
radius of Irish national feeling, and the circular,
seemingly, was more truthful that most publications
of its kind.
From London: “Find the Woman” (which is “The
Third Degree” re-named) has had its 100th perform-
ance, and is going strong. So is “Bunty Pulls the
Strings,” nearly 600 not out, and giving nine per-
formances every week. A music-hall is giving a
comedy, including cycling and boxing turns, played
entirely by educated cocks and hens. Another runs
in some pictures of a recent Melbourne beauty com-
petition, and (in natural colors) of surf-bathing at
Manly. And the Hippodrome has been chosen for the
first production in England of a new opera by Leon-
cavallo, composer of “Pagliacci.” This is the day of
the “Hall.” Drury Lane is going to celebrate its
centenary; it was re-built (after being burnt down)
in 1812. H. B. Irving, who is playing there, as No-
body in “Everywoman,” is to have an Irving Theatre
of his own. How is this for a strenuous Shaks-
pearian week, by Benson and Co. ? Monday, “The
Merchant” ; Tuesday, “Antony and Cleopatra” ; Wed-
nesday, “As You Like It” and “The Merry Wives” ;
Thursday, “Antony” ; Friday, “The Rivals” ; Satur-
day, “The Merchant” and “Hamlet.” But what was
“The Rivals” doing in that galley?
“Deadhead” : I do not think that Randolph Bedford
can be responsible for all of “The Unseen Eye,” as
produced at the Sydney Palace. The frequent ex-
planatory soliloquies and the impassioned utterances
of most of the characters are so utterly unßedfordian
that I can only assume Randolph wrote a drama
and an unscrupulous management “meloed” it. All
the same, Bedford needs some cross-examination.
Why did he make Lucy a cripple? Her misfortune
does not forward the action of the play one bit.
Why does he let Eliza (the slavey) make Mabel
Haughton (the heroine) look like a back number?
The dictograph is a Stone Age affair, built on the
lines of an ex-Q; een of Spain’s musical-box, without
stops. A man o! John Proctor’s stamp ought to have
kicked the larynx out of it as soon as it started
babbling—but maybe the management wouldn’t let
him. The same management sent a policeman on
night duty in a helmet and a stand-up collar ! Also,
who engaged a “tec.” who, when he arrives at a sus-
pect’s house in the middle of the night and hammers
impatiently on the door, forgets to look through the
clear glass sidelights, although a full view could be
had in a brjghtiy-lit room of incriminating papers
being burned? The fatuously honest lydy, selling
matches at 2 a.m., belongs to “The Lights of Lon-
don” and other imported dramas. I hope Randolph
has written the next piece, “A Woman of Impulse,”
on his pat. If he hasn’t, I’ll forward a few more
brief remarks.
“Genung”: Hal Gye’s “The Stage Miracle” (B.
17/10/’l2) reminds me of my second job. The first
was in a bank. This lasted one day. It was not my
fault it only lasted one day. It
was my ignorance. How was I
to know they counted the money
every afternoon? The second job
was a series of Biblical tableaux
in connection with the Y.M.C.A.
in Bendilarat. My job was pull-
ing up and letting down the cur-
tain. It was the only paid job
in the show. That’s why I took
it. One tableau represented
“David and Absalom.” It was
well got up. The background
and properties were most effect-
ive. A grey-bearded, atmor-cla -1
David was bending mournfully
over the corpse of long-haired
Absalom. Then someone elocuted
“The Death of Absalom.” He
did it so well that when I let
down “the rag” a great sigh of
sympathy went up from the big
crowd of Wowsers—Holy Joes,
we called them in those days. I
gave one look to the stage, and
then silently and swiftly ran the
curtain up again. What the
audience saw now Was good King
David with his white beard twist-
ed round behind his back, having
a scientific spar with an exceed-
ingly healthy Absalom arrayed in
short shirt and cycling knickers.
They sparred on, unconscious of
their audience till the roar of in-
sulted Wowserdom nearly lifted
the roof. Blasphemy, they called
it. I just dropped the ropes and ran. ’ Didn’t wait
tor a week s notice. Didn’t wait for back pay
Didn t wait for nothing.
“One Who Pays”: As a supporter of both Church
and stage, f raise my protest against a crowd of
Sydney parsons being dragged as deadheads to see
Ben Hur, m order that they may discover how it
advances the church and stage entente. Both' Like
the Sign of the Cross,” “Barabbas” and “Joseph in
Canaan Ben Hur” is all right as a spectacle; but
if the clergy want to be of any use to the stage, let
them support good healthy plays, like “Hypocrites ”
‘ Diana of Dobsons” and the “Third Floor Back!”
And above all let them avoid the dead-head abomina-
tion and pay their way.
“Circle”: During Act 3, “Ben Hur” becomes a
forest of ladies’ legs, and the stage is tenanted by
wild females arrayed only in singlets, tights and
leopard skins, who clash cymbals, leap about with
what the daily paper young man calls abandon, and
rush off to shrill music—also abandoned. During
Act 4, there is a tigerish love scene between
Iras, the shameless Egyptian lady, and the fearfully
emotional Ben ; in fact, things are so warm on the
ferry boat that old Simonides shudders and hurries
his young daughter away. Yet, at the invitation of
the .1. C. Williamson management, these terrible
spectacles were witnessed last week by a whole train-
load of parsons; and when one of them came before
the curtain and uttered words of praise, his brother
saints made no protest. Why? Evidently because
there is a miracle in Act 6, and because the wicked
lose every coin through backing the wrong team in
the chariot race of Act 5. The betting, too, is not
done per medium of the unsanctified totalisator, but
by good old Ikey Moses.
The mixture of kinematograph with ordinary
stagework is an idea with great possibilities. At
the Scala (London), a new “Mephisto” drama un-
folds the story of Wine, and Woman, and Gold
There are hardly any players, except Old Nick, a
Spirit of Good, who finally routs him, Old Harry, and
some dancers. The rest is done per film —the Derby,
Monte Carlo, a burning house, and so on. The same
idea has been largely used in Paris to show lurid
situations of farce-comedy which are thought a little
strong even for the French stage. (Seeing them at
second-hand is supposed not to count, somehow.)
And now Beerbohm Tree introduces a few feet of
film into his new Drake play to show the capture of
a Spanish galleon.
The Princess’s Theatre, in London, where Wilson
Barrett made a fortune with the original production
of “Silver King,” is to be pulled down, together with
some adjoining premises. A £400,000 hotel will be
built on the site.
“The Chee-ild” : I note that more than one aspir-
ing playwright testifies that he has been told by
Australian managers that there is no demand for the
one-act 7 lay. This statement seems to call for con-
tradiction with both feet. Observe the sort of run we
get for our money. For six bright shillings we view
a thin comedy lasting a little over two hours, and
then we are turned into the street an hour and three-
quarters before the pubs close. Take “Alias Jimmy
Valentine” for a specimen. Essentially a one-act
play, it is attenuated into three or four acts by the
introduction of the irrelevant gaoler, the German
lock inventor, and the sentimental female prison re-
formers ; yet it is all comfortably over (with the
assistance of three intervals) by 10.15 p.m. Would
that be accepted in Europe or America as a fair
evening’s entertainment for six bob? Why should we
not expect what they get elsewhere —a bright curtain-
raiser? The cold truth is that there is no market
for the one-act play, because the Australian managers
won’t make one. The need for it is there all right,
but until the public yells for the thing the manage-
ments won’t make the change.
As might have been expected, Mrs. Brown-Potter,
having announced her conversion to Theosophy, has
started lecturing a la Annie Besant. She made, her
debut at the fashionable Ritz Hotel in Piccadilly,
London. Dressed in flowing Asiatic garb, standing on
a raised platform surrounded by colored lights, and
with a towering palm tree on each side, the con-
verted Cora prattled for an hour or so about the
teachings of some superhuman beings who minister
in a “temple situated among the topmost snow-capped
peaks of the Himalayas.”
The English Church Congress has been discussing
the “amusements of the people.” Speakers were
practically unanimous that there had been a vast
change for the better in theatres and music-halls dur-
ing recent years, wherefore nowadays “indiscriminate
and wholesale condemnation of theatres and music-
halls by the clergy was as ill-advised as it was
unjust.”
‘“The Oldest”: Miss Marion Dunn, of “Get-Rich-
Quick Wallingford,” is not the only lady of the third
generation on the Australian stage. Miss Beatrice
Holloway’s grandfather, Mr. Deorwyn, was an actor
in Melbourne in the early G. V. Brooke era. And,
of course, everybody knows that Miss Beatrice’s
father and mother were both in the profession.
(Continued on page 30.)
“0.K.,” concerning certain gassy water :
Hepburn (Vic.) has found its famous mineral
water which was lost, and the residents of that pic-
turesque district are making some sort of com-
bined effort to safeguard its valuable possession
from the machinations of Private Enterprise. The
spring, which was discovered by the Daylesford gold-
rushers nearly 50 years ago, fell, in course of time,
into the power of a syndicate, which 15 months
back got permission from the fatuous Daylesford
council to stop the water for two or three days
whilst some mysterious “improvements” were being
effected. When these things had been done, and
the stopper was withdrawn, something had happened.
The water came from the old outlet almost as freely
as before, but the gas had all gone. Hepburn
looked for the bubbles of reputation in its precious
fluid, and found them not. Whilst the anxious resi-
dents were waiting for the gas to return, the water
flowed away, seemingly, in quest of the gas. Then
came the assumption that the bonedryness of the
spring was due to the operations at the North
Frenchman mine, not far away. And, seeing that
the North Frenchman hadn’t found a reef, the syn-
dicate Consented to close the mine in consideration
of a £5OO grant from the Government. But the
closing down of the mine had no effect on the
gone-dry spring; and Hepburn was losing all hope
when somebody made the joyous discovery that a
previously neglected spring, at some distance from
the main outlet, was giving 100 gallons an hour.
So water from the new supply is being led along to
the springhouse and the baths beyond, and if there is
any to spare from those purposes, the syndicate can
come in and get it—which is a good deal less, of
course, than the syndicate, being a shindykit, asked
for.
From the peaceful Loddon
The Loddon River (Vic.) horror is giving the
dairy settlers of the north a few things to think
about. It shows them, for example, that the plaster-
ing of a house with Scripture texts isn’t much of a
protection against the owner's homicidal mania. The
overwrought maniac in this case rose up in the
middle of the night, brained his wife and four
children and then filled himself fatally with lead.
Here was a man who, in spite of a family taint,
could clearly have lived a decent and tolerably happy
life if the prevalent earth-hunger of the Northern dis-
trict had not got hold of him. The fiendish massacre
he committed, almost without parallel among Aus-
tralian domestic tragedies, is directly traceable to.
the fact that he grabbed at 320 acres of agricul-
tural land with barely capital enough to cultivate
40. To meet the eternal demand of the money-
lender, he worked (often with his lantern) from,
three o’clock in the morning to past 11 o’clock
each night; and his drudge of a wife did much the
same. He would work as a navvy on a road con-
tract for eight hours each day, then return to work
nearly all night on his farm —not for his living,
note; but in order that he might own for all time
this slice of the earth. Flesh and blood couldn’t
stand it. Influenza attacked him, and let loose
various devils; and they did the rest.


SIMPLEX SAFETY RAZOR
RESHARPENER—I2/6
Yes! a few turns of this ingenious invention will
resharpen any make of Safety Razor Blade as good
as new. If your Razor happens to be a Gilette,
Autostrap, Simplex, Gem, Junior, Ever Ready,
Ender, Odell, Star —in fact any make of safety
Razor —this is just the thing you need. No skill
required. By fixing the Blade in the Holder and
giving the handle a few turns, a perfect shaving edge is restored to any dull blade.
The “Simplex”- will eventually save you pounds; your dull blades can be re-
sharpened in this way again and again. It is Nickel polished framework through-
out —very strongly constructed —and will last for years.
Is supplied with a dressing for the two rollers. Post Free.
Price
126
Does It”
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
m
mm
tk ’
Kugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.’’
Free r ample ser t on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmanh's Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/G per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
«.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUQELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14=16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY ; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Society
AT THE G.P.O.
HE (trying to do a mash): “ Er—excuse me,
are you answering a matrimonial adver
tisement? ”
SHE (waiting for a friend): “Well, hardly.
But I did advertise for a puppy.”
The enterprising Australian youth! The
day after a cable message was published
stating that letters containing money had
been abstracted from letter-pillars by means
of bird-lime, this ingenuous inquiry written
in a boyish hand was received by an Ade-
laide daily newspaper: “If you plese, how
do you make bird-lime?”
The Vie. Executive seems to have gone
over the legal odds in sentencing a wretched
sexual maniac and a small-sized burglar to
three floggings apiece, in addition to im-
prisonment for life. The second and third
whippings were to have been served out at
six months’ intervals, but the Law seemingly
doesn’t permit of prisoners being kept in
painful expectation for a whole year. So
the culprits will be belted only once.
* * * *
“10-2-4” discovers an heroic soul: —
Governor Strickland will find at least one warm
admirer when he arrives in N. S. Wales, namely,
myself. My enthusiasm is based on a hint dropped
by Henley, M.L.A., the other night. Said he of the
defective aspirate:—
“I have met and travelled with Sir Gerald Strick-
land, on board the Orontes, four years ago, when I
was returning from England, and he was on his way
to Tasmania. He is of a retiring disposition, and
did not mix much -with the passengers.”
A trifling remark to the uninitiated, possibly ; but to
those who are accustomed to go down to the sea in
mail ships, full of significance. I know those strong,
scark souls who do not mix much with the passen-
gers. I likewise know the frenzy of hate which
burns in the bosoms of the Henleys of this world
in regard to them. Henley, if one can get any sort
of a line by his performances in the Assembly and
elsewhere, is a member of that loathly class —the
Passengers who are Determined to Make Things Go
with a Swing. With fancy’s eye I can see the dread-
ful, well-meaning little man hurrying round tne
Orontes, in his bowler hat, black tail coat, chest-
protector tie and sand-shoes, littering the entire ves-
sel with aspirates in the attempt to get people who
only want to be left alone to play bull board, quoits
(plain and bucket), and other tiresome and asinine
games; join in the sweep on the ship’s run ; sing,
recite, conjure, or perform some similar debasing
act at the forthcoming concert ; participate in a
g'ame of animal grab in the music saloon; choose a
fancy costume at the barber’s shop—preferably one
with a false nose, or kindred comic effect in it —
for the fancy-dress ball; be one of the jury at a
mock trial, and by various other devices cause wide-
spread fury and boredom. One after the other,
passengers turn weakly from those pursuits which
really appeal to them, and consent, with some
muddled idea that it is all for the public good, to
join in revels which they abhor. Suddenly Henley
comes to Strickland. He probably addresses the
potentate ingratiatingly as “Me Lord,” if not “Yer
Grace.” In vain. Strickland will have none of
him. Perhaps he merely goes on reading while
Henley shuffles foolishly before him. A still more
splendid vision is that of Strickland rising menac-
ingly and threatening to kick Henley, in the event
of that legislator persisting in his importunities.
Henley retires in disorder to the smoking-room
where his confederates lurk. The story of Strick-
land’s intolerable hauteur is told. Amidst a cease-
less crash of falling “h’s,” such conduct is con-
demned as unmanly, un-British, and calculated to
sap the foundations of Empire. In a little while
the schemes to render the passengers jolly and soci-
able are embarked on once more. Strickland con-
tinues to read placidly. The passengers who are
being “amused” by Henley and his colleagues watch
the recalcitrant, enviously, admiringly. They would
give anything to follow Strickland’s lead, but lack
the nerve. That has always been my trouble. But
it does not debar me from depositing my meed of
homage at the feet of a braver and more resolute
spirit—if indeed a spirit has feet.
“Squills” : The action brought
against the British Medical
Association by a Consumption
Curemonger is an interesting
exposure of the fallibility of
the Faculty. Apart from a
question re the correctness of
the analysis published in the
Association’s book of revela-
tions, there was a conflict of
medical opinion as to the
effects of the “quack” cure.
Several doctors gave it credit
for being beneficial, or even ab-
solutely curative; others said
it was injurious to the patients
they had known of. Possibly
both sides were right. Seeing
that oualified men often admit
the failure of their experi-
mental physic, by changing
the prescription when the
patient gets worse, an unquali-
fied man can’t be expected to
get always the same results
with his one prescription. A
consumptive may be benefited
by a mixture that serves his
lungs, provided that his kidneys
or liver are not diseased. An-
other consumptive dies from
the ill effects of the same stuff
on his Bright’s disease, or
what not. There are risks in
all desperate treatments. What
is a cure under certain condi-
tions is a kill when the condi-
tions are quite otherwise. And
the most learned practitioners
are sometimes blind to the
otherwiseness of the condi-
tions. In which onse they invent a
new medical name for the fatal blunder, and
certify that the patient died of it in a proper
manner.
* * * *
Melbourne Argus touched the limit of
daily Jeames-journalism last week in pub-
lishing a photo (12 x 7) of the vice-regals at
a State Government House garden party. It
was a lovely picture of the Fullers and their
guests seated in the foreground, with seven
aides and abettors standing behind. Snob-
ocracy gloats over photos of this sort. They
serve as object-lessons in class distinction in
the upperest circles. Also they draw public
attention to the importance of spats. And
every Tory newspaper ought to insist upon
the importance of spats.
DOING GOOD BUSINESS.
MANAGER : “Call the fool off! Does he want
to be killed?”
POLONIUS : “Not him! Why, with vegetables
at the present prices, he’s COINING money!”
Prom the Oldest Inhabitant’s grandpa:—
The first census taken in Melbourne was on May
30, 1836, by Captain Stewart, P.M. The tally was
177 ; only 35 were females.
The city was first known by the native name of
Narr’n. Altered afterwards to Bearbran. This name
didn’t last long. AVhen Hoddle came in ’37 he
wanted the town to be christened Glenelg. Batman,
the first settler, wanted it called Batmania. Gov-
ernor Bourke arrived in March, ’37 ; he objected, to
the first name because he hated Glenelg, then Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, and to the second be-
cause of the last two syllables. He went for safety,
and fixed it at Melbourne. Melbourne was Prime
Minister of England.
Hoddle then planned the city. Between the big
streets he placed narrow lanes to serve the out-
houses. Hence Little Collins, Little Flinders, Lil
Buk, etc.
The first pub was just behind where the Custom
House stands—Johnny Fawkner’s. Johnny’s father had
been sent out in 1802 for buying stolen jewellery,
and Johnny himself was, in 1814, publicly flogged
before his father’s house for helping some convicts
to escape. His pub was the hub for many yearsi He
also ran a circulating library and a newspaper. Be-
sides, he was sawyer, farmer, hotelkeeper, bush
lawyer, land jobber, member of Parliament and corpse.
He kept a good pub. Rum was rum in those days.
The Westralian Government a while ago
bought a steamer to bring out population
for its empty wastes; and arrangements
were made whereby it was claimed that a
first saloon passage would be provided for
£3O. The ship has now arrived; and ac-
cording to the yarns of passengers, what
was provided was a blend of Tophet and
Chaos. Fourteen letters have dropped in
up to the time of writing alleging that the
lavatory arrangements were bad, or that the
water was rusty, or if it wasn’t rusty that
it was brackish ; that hot baths were unob-
tainable in cold weather, and cold baths
unobtainable in hot; that stewards were so
grimy that they couldn’t be distinguished
from firemen; that the cabins were dirty,
the bread bad, the dishes often unwiped,
and ice, cake, fruit, tea and coffee always
scarce. In addition, the electric light seems
to have had a playful habit of going out,
and the wireless plant frequently refused
duty. Also, the fish was decayed, the meat
tainted, and the butter rancid, while the
cheese was adorned with thumbprints like
the library of a criminal department. It is
a stirring record of what General Muddle
can do when the old gentleman really tries :
and even if half the 14 correspondents’
statements are blotted out as the work of
fevered heads, hungry stomachs and en-
raged imaginations, there is enough left over
to make a pretty substantial indictment of
the people who had charge of the under-
taking.
From a man with
a memory:—
Apropos “Old St.
James’s” (B. 24/10/’l2) :
Fifty years ago the
only church in Mel-
bourne with a peal of
bells was old St.
James’s, and it also
had an organised com-
pany of bell-ringers.
William Barton, an
old London showman,
kept an hotel on the
opposite corner (Ohan-
cerv-lane and William-
street), and on prac-
tice nights he used to
send the ringers a buc-
ket of beer. His son
mostly carried the
beer, and I carried the
pint-pots. One night,
on our way to the bel-
fry, we encountered
the verger. He was
horrified at the idea of
“bringing beer into the
sacred edifice.” What
would .Mr. Beecher (the
rector) say? We had
to take that beer back,
but the ringers got
the ; >’ pint all the
sain e. Just before
Barry Sullivan, then
lessee of the Theatre
Royal, produced
“Faust,” he strode in-
to Barton’s one day,
and, in the usual de-
liberate tones, asked
where he could find the
captain of the bell-
ringers. Barton sent
a messenger off for the
captain, who was 'em-
ployed in the Loco. De-
partment of the Rail-
ways. Bill Chrisfield
—he was the captain
—tpld the actor-mana-
ger that to get a set
of bell-ringers for the
show was as easy as
falling off a log—if
Mr. Sullivan would
provide the bells.
Within five minutes
Sullivan had stalked
down Little Collins-
street to James
McEwan’s, where the
captain selected the ironmongery, and rehearsals were
commenced. “Faust” was produced and proved a
big success, Sullivan being Mephistopheles. It ran
for 24 weeks, a remarkable thing for those times.
A Newtown (Sydney) female has origi-
nated a new and terrifying method of dis-
posing of the unwanted infant. Walking up
to a house where a window ticket an-
nounced that there were rooms to let, she
took an apartment and deposited the child
on the bed; then she went out and never
came back any more. Certainly it is a much
more humane method than that by which the
Wowser and the Liberal Union female en-
courage unfortunate girls to dispose of their
progeny. But it has the disadvantage of ex-
posing the “dropper” to the risk of early
identification. Besides, the rooms-to-let
duchess mostly wants money in advance.
So, one way and another, the new method
isn’t likely to be very popular.
* * * *
The Presbyterian Messenger (Vic.)
spoke of those people who cried out against
the abominable idea of inflicting three
floggings on Moore, the man sen-
tenced to life-long imprisonment without
a hope, as “drivelling moral degenerates,”
talkers of “sentimental rubbish.” “God Al-
mighty gives the magistrate a sword, not
a painted lath,” continued the Christian
brother. “There are people so hardened to all
ethical considerations that society can only
impress them through their skins.” Just so. It
reminds us that the Presbyterian Messen-
ger recently printed a picture of Christ with
a palm leaf in His hand. Now, flogging being
a godly thing (“God Almighty puts a sword
into the magistrate’s hand”) , The Bulletin
cordially invites its saintly contemporary to
print a companion picture showing Christ
with a cat-o’-nine-tails in His hand.
NOTHING DOING.
“Pick up anything at the races to-day?”
“No; had my wife with me.”
ON THE DISGUSTING PEACE AT PARKES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Parkes, Thursday.—A public meeting, which was
called with tire object of protesting against the evic-
tion of the Governor-General, was held last night, and
was attended by about 20 persons. It was decided
to postpone the gathering until November 18, and
a committee was appointed to draft motions and
arrange speeches. — Sydney Sun. 7/11/’l2.
There’s a fearful lack of uproar in the neighborhood
of Parkes;
There’s a dearth of indignation and a scarcity of
barks ;
There’s no groaning,
And no moaning ;
There’s no discontent at all ;
But a rotten,
God-forgotten
Peace envelopes like a pall.
All the happy country township ambles gaily, on its
way,
And no deaf’ning howls of anguish mar the long and
happy diy.
But that soon will be adjusted, and the streets with
rebels thronged,
If they’ll only come and listen when we tell them
we’ve been wronged.
'Tis a weakness most depressing of the countryman
who stares—-
This indifference to the city and its glorious affairs.
When we’re slighted,
Unexcited
Ho still goes about his jobs;
While we’re railing
And bewailing,
He will not assist with sobs —
Or at least he won’t assist us till we show him why
he should,
For he’s dreadfully self-centred and his heart is made
of wood.
Still we’re hoping to inflame him ’gainst the boorish
Labor narks.
And our hearts will thrill with gladness when there's
grief and rage in Parkes.
N.SAV.
A GOVERNMENT HOUSE VISIROR FOR 30 YEARS.


Best thing
to whiten
the clothes
Mrs. E. Field, of Newtown, Sydney,
writes :
“ Sunlight Soap is the best
I can get for whitening the
clothes. My doctor told me
I was to use no other soap
than ‘Sunlight’ as it is a
true skin purifier.”
GOOD
SUhlichT
LAUNDRY SOAP
Beautiful Finger Nails.
Would you like to have your nails possess
that pink, shiny, shelly appearance that is
so attractive ?
If so, use
De Leon’s
Nail Polishing Powder.
A dainty toilet specially obtainable in 1/6
boxes from Washington H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co., all Chemists, and
the proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,
Melbourne.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO , Melbourne.
for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
Wilds Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
An Appropriate SOFT HAT
For Present Wear 12/6
h
Adaptable to any shape the wearer de-
sires—in colors which harmonise with
the suitings now worn —this smooth-
finished Pelt Hat will appeal to men who
like something particularly smart and
suitable for Summer wear.
They are obtainable in the new Grey,
Slate and Dark Fawn Colors, with con-
trasting bands 2in. wide.
The brims have turned edges 2|in in
width.
Please state shade and size desired when
ordering.
Our new Catalogue, containing over 200
illustrations of men’s wear, will be posted
on request.
“Men’s Outfitters,’
PEAPES & CO. LTD,,
309=311 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
SHE: “Goins to wear
THAT , are you! You DO seem to love old
clothes!”
HE: “Yes, you love new ones .”
That great educational medium, (he S. M.
Herald, announced the other day that one
of the recent Turco-Bulgarian scrimmages
was “waged with great animosity.” The
Bulletin always feared that a little bad
feeling might creep in before the business
was ended.
“Melb”: The Grange, the historic man-
sion of boomster Fink, on the corner of St.
Ivilda-road and Domain-road, lias just been
knocked down. Last year the place was
half burned, and the property was after-
wards bought by the Victorian Govern-
ment to square off the Domain. A splendid
view over park lands to Hobson's Bay is
thus opened up. Of course, the chunk now
restored to the public should never have been
alienated. Fitzgibbon, who fought hard against
every proposed theft from the people’s
lands, used to tell how he rode with Governor
Latrobe round the Melbourne reserves, and
how proud Latrobe was of having provided
such lungs for the future city. Pretty well
all of them have since been truncated, and
some must yet be repurchased at great cost.
A very gradual lady is Mrs. A. M. Walsh,
who for 12 years did the washing for the
Supreme and County Courts at Ballarat.
During that time the lady omitted to send
in a bill; and wh'fen the Crown Law De-
partment got one for £5B 2s. 5d.. it kicked
like the ass the Law is supposed to be.
Mrs. Walsh’s position in matrimony was
that of the wife of the court crier—a gentle-
man who some time ago gave up his job.
and, like royalty, was succeeded by his son.
Mrs. Walsh, following suit, gave up the
washing of the court towels, and proceeded
to square things up in a business-like way
by forwarding a bill. Then started a tre-
mendous row. The Crown Law Depart-
ment thought Mrs. Walsh ought to apply
to her husband for payment, holding that it
was part of his duties to supply clean towels
and other official linen. Mrs. Walsh entered
a demurrer; after which the secretary made
a number of futile trips to Ballarat to effect
a settlement. How much these trips added
to the bill it is hard to say; but, anyhow,
the Department eventually parted up
£lB 6s. by instalments, and the very gradual
Mrs. Walsh, who is still stonily obdurate, is
considering further action, while the whole
force of the Department is mobilising to
meet madame’s onslaught.
“Karee”: “Buttonstiek,” “Machete,” “Pot-
ash Bromide,” et tutti quanti (in a Dago
way of speaking) are all off the track in
their vaporings anent
the uses and useless-
nesses of war-bikes
against cavalry. They
all seem to fora t that
the war-cycle used by
the Germans, French,
Dago, Austrian and
Belgian armies, and
used with success, is
the Martineau tyne,
a collapsible, alumin-
ium affair of the light-
est weight. With such
a. machine there is no
need, as suggested by
“Buttonstiek,” for the
cyclist to drop “his
mount under cover”
before crawling to a
position. He merely
folds the bike, wheel
touching wheel, hoists
it flat on his knap-
sack, and crawls to
bis post. When serv-
ing in the French
cavalry I many a
time had to charge a
square of bicycle
corps with their
mounts on their shoul-
ders, and I witnessed
many spirited bayonet
charges carried
through in spite of
the added weight of
the wheel; for the
French infantryman
lias to charge, fully
equipped, with haver-
sack, knapsack, am-
munition. etc., on his
]) ati e n t shoulders,
being taught to de-
pend not on the army waggons for supplies,
but on liis own carrying capacity.
One day last month a motor-car dashed
into a squad of cadets who were being
drilled at Clifton Hill (Melb.) and injured
one of them. The driver did not stop to see
what damage he had done, or find out if it
was necessary to rush the injured boy to a
hospital or a doctor. He simply went like
Jehu, furiously, and for the time being got
right away. But the police, in a spasm of
wakefulness, succeeded in tracking him
down. Haled before the Bench on three
charges, he was hit with fines amounting in
all to £l2, with 15s. costs. Part of his
offence was that he had no license —which
was probably why he did not stop. But the
practice of making a bolt for safety, under
any circumstances whatever, requires to be
severely discouraged. The average man
who runs a car can easily find £5, the sum
which this young ruffian was called upon to
pay for. bolting. Three months without the
option is the deterrent required-—partly in
the interests of motorists themselves, who
otherwise may find an enraged public taking
drastic reprisals.
Said Prof. Anderson Stuart (Svdney)
the other day: “We must: strengthen the
hands of the British Medical Association In-
enrolling every man —by persuasion, bv
conviction, or, failing both, by force.'”
Whereat there was applause, though if the
same sort of thing had been said in the
case of plasterers, carpenters or hod-car-
riers, there would have been merely a howl
of disapproval, coupled with a demand for
the immediate arrest of somebody.
BASE INGRATITODE.
OWNER (whose horse has just run second):
“What kind of a blanky horseman do you.
call yourself?”
JOCKEY (in disgust): “Well, strike me fat.
some of you chaps is never satisfied.
Didn't I beat seven of 'em !”
A malicious Fate has been working over-
time in Adelaide. (1) An old well, sunk
half a century back, was boarded over and
forgotten. In time an hotel was built over
it. In the course of years the boards rotted.
A cook arrived, who was a heavyweight; she
happened to step fair in the middle of the
old well, and went down to her death. (2)
A long plank, being planed, bent and broke,
and the splinters flew. One of them sought
out the foreman of the shed, over 20ft.
away. It happened (a) to strike him on
the head, (6) to come end-on, (c) to
pierce his brain. (3) An hotel servant
(Grand Central) rang for the lift —auto-
matic. There happened to be a hole in the
glass of the doorway. He put his head
through to watch it come up; it happened
to be coming down, instead. He made the
third corpse.
Last week Sydney specialised in fire
thrills. An 80-foot ladder from the Circu-
lar Quay station was reared like a wine-
soaked mantis in front of a tall fire, when
there was a sound like a shot, and the
crowd drew deep breaths for the two hel-
meted figures clinging high up on the frac-
tured thing. But, instead of collapsing
with the men, the great ladder swayed over
and rested wearily against the burning
building, and so the pair crept back to
ea-rth. Next night, a policeman had come
to the door of the_ Clarence-street station to
get a breath of air, or arrest attention, or
something, when a high, far cry of “Fire!”
was wafted to him. The hail came from a
man clinging to the dark ledge of a three-
storey window four doors away. The con-
stable yelled to him to hang on while he
rang for the brigade, which promptly trundled
along with its big ladder, and thus brought
the dazed and choking refugee down to the
street. While on night work he had been
trapped by a fire, which started in the base-
ment and blocked both the goods-life shaft and
stairway. A rope ladder (kept, presum-
ably, for such emergencies) was found- by
the desperate man to be stuck in its box.
So he tried the window ledge, and won by a
brief minute or so. If lie had been on the
thirteenth floor of a skyscraper he couldn’t
have been picked like a wingless fly off the
outside wall. Skyscraper enthusiasts, of
course, argue that all decent ’scrapers are
fireproof, like the Devil and other great in-
stitutions. But even the ’scraper seems to
burn well when it gets a start, and there is
no proof that the Devil wasn’t consumed
hundreds of years ago.
Hear Bulletin : The N.S.W. Parliamen-
tary measure-drafters are the deadliest of
copyists or plagiarists of foreign statutes.
Save in regard to Arbitration law, where
they couldn’t find anything to steal from,
they are like the Jap and Chinese tailors
when given a suit of clothes to
imitate, copying everything down to
the patch, believing that to be an
essential part of the garment or a
charm to circumvent,
devils. For instance,
Carmichael’s Univer-
sity Bill has a device
giving representation
on the Senate to coun-
try mayors and shire
presidents. This was.
a slavish Chinese copy
of the representation
given on College Man-
agement Committees,
to the council of such
a city as Birming-
ham. There the coun-
cil has representation
on the Gram m a r
School, University,
Blue Coat School,
etc. In Nottingham
the council runs the
college. In Britain
public education is a
municipa 1, not a
State, function, as it
is with us, and there
is a special rate raised
in Britain for the
municipal sc h o ols.
Hence, it is natural
there to give repre-
sentation to the coun-
ty and city councils
upon the governing
bodies of the institu-
tion which deal with
higher education in
the city. In Aus-
tralia, on the other
hand, shires and mun-
icipalities have no-
lliing to do with this
business of education :
yet the blundering,
blindly - following
draftsman has dropped!
in the English provision just as though the'
two cases were analogous.—Yours, Matric..
A terrible thing happened at a meeting-
of the Northcote (Melb.) Council, the other-
evening. The council has a “Socialistic’”
member who was advocating day labor
when the Mayor ruled him out of order.
The disrespectful Socialist moved that the
Mayor’s ruling be disagreed with, and made
remarks derogatory to the chair, where-
upon the mayor desired him to sit down.
He refused to sit down, so the Mayor said:
“There is only one course left me to adopt.
(Pause.) I name councillor McDonell.”
The council was naturally too broken-up to
proceed any further. Nobody, however,
seems to know what happened, to the un-
happy victim. What does happen to a
town councillor when he is named by the
Mayor ?
A SUGGESTION FROM THE PARK.
In view of the frequent complaints concerning
the inadequate provision of receptacles for waste
paper , the Domain unemployed might be given
an opportunity to be useful as well as beautiful .
A SCORCHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIB.]
90.4—Record in the City.—Hottest Day since
Last Summer.—Welcome Southerly Change.
—Newspaper Headlines.
No breezes stirred ; the polished sea was grey ;
But in the morning silences I heard
A bird —
Some tiny feathered thing which seemed to say
In nervous chirps, “There will be hell to-day!”
The sky was slightly hazed. (It always is
When something diabolical is due).
It flew
That tiny bird away in one wild whiz.
(The tiny prophet knew his humble biz.)
The hot North-easter, like a furnace blast,
Rushed from the region Arthur, M.L.A.,
(Hooray !)
Insists on representing, first and last,
As Liberal. From there it travelled fast.
It leapt the Harbor, and, in robes of dust,
Arrayed the fainting city to the south.
Each mouth
Was dry as any oven, until thrust
With fervor through the long beer’s snowy crust.
The wind flew by at forty knots or so;
The hours stood still (or so at least it seemed),
Men dreamed,
And tried to work, o’er hot desks crouching low,
For Takerndown, O’Swindle, Bust and Co.
“At 3.ls”—when all were nicely done—
“ The wind veered round.” How sweet and cool
it sounds!
Like hounds,
Mad hounds unleashed, that fiercely spring and run,
The Pole-struck winds came back chock full of fufi.
The temperature fell like some mean cur
Kicked from a stairhead by a scornful god
Steel-shod.
The cool breaths passing made the forests stir
And cooled hot whiskers, feathers, grass and fur.
As tired housefathers dimmed the white-hot gas,
And on cane lounges sprawled in garments white
Bediglit,
They gazed aloft and saw a berg-lilce mass—
The white moon floating in Night's brimming glass.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


Wyrtrre- M H R °£
-tire ?ir "W! € y
myKcf tye Bulle'iirr
'no+fnO 2k
fren?icr W^i^
•fo Fnol«\<id jp
dv*-KdOr|^e
Vic lov . recKonj
"+ , i^Wtn«^S
i$ jMyt - -$e
Word .
Tio- it
op
A«Ain (
Dr. Wilbur Chapman ami Mr.
Alexander were welcomed back to
Melbourne last night by a great bod>
of members of the Christian Endea-
vor Union in the Exhibition Building.
The choir, under Mr. Alexanders
leadership, sang some of its «n»fter
pieces, including "Thy God Keign-
eth.”—News item.
/n|o Ife.
Comb «
m p a T if ' fewelti
A t r lea,s+' v/e 'believe.
he d,a.
by'ttje ( sb be dun'trp
'■fortifc o]pev) ba^N'r^vSC^ 05 '* •
In accordance with a suggestion made
by London Headquarters, the Boy Scouts
of Australia have agreed to subscribe to
a wedding presentation fund in connec-
tion with the marriage of the Chief
Scout, Baden Powell. The amount is
iiroited to one penny a scout.
—News item.
Iremier —D&m few c\j\c\<kns 111 Qe.f' bufoj* ■tt/af lof~t)efore
y{yrib&- 3hes been o« tfem for montt^
J.Mwr&y '. ltfe ase of lier sif"<f days a,
weeK . lii, . 5W5 overwot-Ked.
!> Civilian Boy'.— £|oin' |
ib give (JVn!
lye aonT wv>i no weddm’
Howab^v/j-«
|>ev>v>ottj o'lolliejf
N/Tiie rfihher:-
VI stou+THHe
ide*!'
The campaign against the candida-
ture of Mr. Samuel Mauger for the Sen-
ate has taken a .fresh turn. The allied
People’s Party and Women’s National
league have hit upon a last desperate
expedient. It is that the final selection
of the Liberal Senate candidates shall
be handed over to a tribunal to be ap-
pointed by the entire Liberal Parlia-
mentary party—News item.
"iVe
%c W.q.T. U. Delegate
As SjttVaAKve. Sy.
? fooh \
eAy//*
*lbe .C°ttser/atfTve Free-Ti
Section of Vic
steps Secure. %e. of S^wj-M^ug^
It Is the duty of one of the mem-
bers of the W'.C'.T. I', to visit licensed
premises. The lady charged with
that duty confessed at. the conference
that her work had not been success-
ful. She asked to be relieved, and
recommended that her successor
should be a young woman—“lf pos-
sible," she added, attractive as a
barmaid.”—News item.
MAINLY MELBOURNE.


Carbolacene
Blocßettes
Ptirify and Sanitise the Air
. T
'■ :->.y'
.
m
IS
: V S '
LAST FOR MONTHS
REQUIRE NO ATTENTION
For use in Rooms and all places where
a Fragrant, Sanitized and Pure
Atmosphere is desired.
In
Cages
2/6
SOLD EVERYWHERE
2/-
Without
' Cages
They slowly evaporate and give off an active and delightfully pleasing vapour
W on L Iy S ? LE ARTHUR MUSTON & SONS, 17 Bridge St., Sydney
SPARKLETS
fASodfa-Tbunfain
[ on a Tea-fop/
ĥ
Wanted m every
home in Australia
“ SPARKLETS M —Because
they will make delicious cool
and sparkling drinks in the
hot Summer days - pure,
fresh and ready instantly.
Order a Sparklet Syphon
from your storekeeper
to-day, and your home
will be happier all the
Summer.
C. SYPHONS, 6/6 ea. C. BULBS, 2/3 do*.
B. SYPHONS, 4/- ea; B. BULBS, 1/6 doz.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE AVENGING HYPHEN.
STATION OWNER ( engaging new mar-
ried couple): “Any encumbrance?"
CLAUDE WHITEHALL-SMITH (just off the boat): “Only a hyphen, I assuah you!"
“Warrumbueca” : The Adelaide horsehair
who advocated co-operation amongst farmers, in the
ownership of agricultural implements (B. 10/10/’l2)
has evidently about as much knowledge of coi kying
, , ~ , «...,, , .. ,
as that contributor “Agncola,” who alleged that
farmers burned wheat stubble for the fun of seeing
a blaze. It is true that a farmer who knows his
games uses, say, his plough “only about once a year,”
but the “once” is all the year round. His cultivator
.... ... . ~ . . , ,
likewise. All crops m one district are ready for the
reaper and binder on practically the one day, and cocky
rushes the machine into the paddock, so as to get as
much cut as possible while the crop is just in that
condition to make the best hay. Every day that it
stands after that condition has been reached is
detrimental, so far as hay-making is concerned In
the same way, if. the crops are allowed to stand for
gram, all in a given district ripen at the same time
LfTT Wl , gr expedition, as thun-
2™? Vf T dB n T „ V llke *
S“ e . t 0 all ™ the I thoUght , s t 0 dwell °n the
efforts of four or five cockles who are joint owners
in a reaper-and-binder, struggling in an atmosphere
of whiskers and profanity, for the right to secure
a little hay before the sun ripens the growing crop
into hard straw, or for the right to garner in some
wheat before the seed is entirely thrashed out by the
sportive winds. It is because he is unable to pur-
chase the necessary implements of his craft that the
mortgage-burdened cocky so often goes under. The
modern farmer wants his own implements, and lots
of them, and the off-chance of using a jointly-owned
piece of harvesting machinery is no better to him
than a ticket in Tatt.’s, or an interest in the Resur-
rection.
Australia is always discovering some new
and wonderful creature, or traces of him. The 10ft.
hairy man has left his awful footprints on the Ma
State’s mud, and the kangaroo-tiger or paddy-
melon-leopard has given glimpses of himself v, hile
skimming lightly over six-wire fences, with a bullock
or a jackeroo or something tucked safely under his
arm. Now arrives the fire-moth, which, if it multi-
plies, will drive capital out of the country worse
than Six Hatters. One blew along to a N.S.W. town-
ship last week, and when a lady lit a candle in her
bedroom, the creature flew into the flame, caught
fire, whirled himself into the bed-curtains, set fire
to them, then dropped on to the quilt and com-
mitted arson there as well. After that he whirled
round generally, and had a first-class conflagration
going before anybody could ring up for the police
or some other sort of trap. Two little children sleep-
ing in the room were rescued with difficulty by the
scared and horrified mother. If this 'type of bug
becomes numerous, curtains and quilts will require
to be of asbestos. All moths dash into a light; but
this particular one seems, to be unusually strong and
large, and to have the power of bouncing round
while he is still alight. The insurance companies
may presently have to combine in self-defence, and
offer valuable rewards for scalps.
“Yarrum”: These Norwegian whalers are
playing havoc among the whales between Botany
and Twofold Bays. Recently, on a Sunday morning,
I saw one shot off Pt. Bass; and the critter was
secured and lashed fast to the side of the steamer
within the hour. The boat then sped southward, and,
two miles further on, right off the Kiama Blowhole,
another aquatic mammal was shot and lashed along
the port side of the vessel. The two monsters, one
a Rorqual or black whale, 94ft. long, were taken on
to Jervis Bay, where, at time of writing, there are
no less than 10 ashore, to be tried out. Three
large whales, fastened together, have been lying
upon the beach at Shellharbor for a fortnight, with-
out being called for, and, as they are getting a bit
high—and a high whale is a fearsome thing—the
townspeople have thought of calling a thanksgiving
service, or something. Many of the townsmen are of
opinion that it would be cheaper, and not half so
nasty, to shift the town. The skipper of the Camp-
bell says each insect is worth “all out £600.” The
Norwegians use every part of the whale except the
spout.
“Pick”: The knock-out to “Bromide.”
“Jimmie Pannikin” and other upholders of the bike-
in-war idea, comes from the cycle trade itself. Any
dealer in jiggers will explain that, notwithstanding
the great decrease in prices, their output has slumped
horribly, and that it is almost impossible to place a
bike except in country parts where the roads are
smooth and level. The push-and-burst-yourself ma-
chine is now a back number, and every unfortunate
who has pedalled far, either for business or pleasure,
can understand why. It is murderous toil even on
good roads, and utter madness when attempted across
country. The shearers referred to by “Pannikin”
adopted the jigger because on many stations they
were charged a heavy agistment fee for their horses ;
but they always travelled the roads—-and the closing
of roads is a painfully frequent occurrence in war
time. Even there the sheep barbers did more leading
and cursing than riding. Generally after a season’s
trial of plugging they returned thankfully to horse-
flesh.
THE FINISHING TOUCH.
“You think I look very nice, Mary?”
“My word, missus. You bin put it nose longa pflour bag?"
“Tiaki” : The remarks of “Tumumu” (•]'».
10/10/’l2) re the sick-soil belt, revive some vege-
table memories. In many parts of the Rickettv Isles,
and at certain seasons, cattle and sheep get on the
jag from a too free indulgence in either rangiora
(Brachyglottis rangiora ) or tutu (Coriaria rusci-
folia). The effects are similar to those felt by a man
who has swallowed a gallon of beer after eating a
pound of baking-powder, only more so. The animals
(especially horses) become as corpulent as a repre-
sentative Mr. Fat, assume a very knowing look, and
neigh out all sorts of roysterous challenges before
proceeding to do steeplechases and hurdle-jumps that
a champion would tremble at. If discovered in time
the drunken patient is (1) put through his paces until
he sweats off the effects, or (2) his head is well
smoked until he “coughs it up,” or (3) incisions are
made for blood-letting, which, it is claimed, is a
sure cure. I have heard some bushmen assert that
a last resource is to bore holes in the animal’s hide
and let the wind out. Henare makes a physic out of
a flax root and salt, which he administers to his
steed when “tutued.” Curiously enough tutu leaves
are among the cures used by the Maori for dysen-
tery. The berries (which are small and black) may
be sucked, and a delicious juice extracted. But he
who swallows the small stones attends his own
funeral. The same unprofitable experience falls to
the person who eats honey poisoned by the fool-bee’s
industry amongst the rangiora.
* * * »
“Te Babarantiko,” press agent for the
octopus: Much has been written about the pursuit
of human beings by the octopus, but, as a matter of
fact, the poor brute is more often the hunted than
the hunter. When the young ’pus is not long out of
the egg, and is from half a dozen to a dozen inches
long, it is no bad experience to hunt him by torch-
light, in the shallow water on the outer edge of the
coral reef, when he comes out for food and recreation.
All you see in the blaze of the palm-leaf torch
waved by the native above your head, is the lit-up
circle of water. As you peer into the liquid you
see a small, shapeless lump of jelly. The nigger
makes a grab at it, tranquilly bites it to death,
and slides it into the basket. In the season thousands
of the young innocents are spread out on mats in
the native villages to be sun-cured. When the ’pus
is a size larger, the old men catch him swimming
along the edge of the reef. Some training is needed
to tell his abode among the innumerable holes and
cracks. Nai Akaba taught me that if I saw a few
pebbles and broken bits of coral in a hole, there
surely was a devil-fish in it. We set to work to dis-
lodge one with an iron bar, and after I got a good
hold of the fiend, or whatever it is, he came with
long arms twisting and writhing, and, with a curious
sucking sensation fastened on my arms and hands.
Nai Akaba laid hold of him and bit him just below the
bulb-shaped head. The dark-brown sepia gushed out
over his face, arms and hands, streaming down his
chest, coloring him a dull, dark brown. The twisting
tentacles relaxed; the octopus was dead. One great
’pus was so securely housed we failed to dislodge him.
We could touch him with our fingers, but could get
no. grip. Stepping back, we waited and kept quiet,
Nai Akaba with iron bar poised. Slowly a shadowy
form arose. Then Nai Akaba hurled the bar. The
’pus dropped back, but a moment too late: the iron
had pierced the head, nailing him to the coral
rock, and he was without difficulty hauled out, bitten
to death, and turned inside out.
“Reka” : Last week a half-caste postman
came down our street, and before a large house with
an imposing Maori name he smote his thigh and
chortled loud and long. I inquired the reason of
his mirth. He pointed to the name on the gate.
“Pain in the stomach,” he said, briefly. Recovering
a little he became communicative. “There’s a house
in the next road called Boiled Eel, and one up in
Ponsonbv named Old Woman.” Heard a complaint
myself recently from a suburbanite, who called his
place a Maori name which meant “Rest awhile,” or
“Come-and-have-a-drink,” or something equally cheer-
ful. He thought it pleasant to live in a place with
a good homely title, until wandering Maoris read
the sign and began to take the place at its word. As
he couldn’t very well support the whole population,
he painted out the name, and is now looking for
something that means “Go to Tophet,” or “Beware
of several devils.”
AT THE EURRA (S.A.).
The local cab proprietor’s idea of justice not
tempered with mercy.
“Stingaree”: The Queensland ’gator or
croc, has only one friend—the white crane. Have
often crept towards a sleeping saurian, with murder
in my hand, but just at the moment when I was
within range a crane has raised himself into the
air with a shriek, and the croc., thus notified of
danger, has swerved and plunged into the water.
Wherever there is a ’gator haunt there will also
he found white cranes. Another species of the
bird, I’m told, does sentry duty for the Egyptian
croc., in a similar manner.
“WOT’S UP ’ERE?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We had dinner at about 12 o’clock, and felt all
right after it, and played several games. About 1.30
p.m. one of the ladies complained of feeling sick, but
we didn’t think it was anything serious. Then sud-
denly four of them collapsed. That was about 3.30.
Soon there were 14 of them bad. I administered an
emetic of salt water. It was not long before we had
a big crowd round us, and it took two constables all
their time to keep the people back. —Sydney ptomaine
picnicker’s account of the usual summer trayedy.
“Stan’ back there! Mind yer toes!!”
“Orright! Don’t lose yer ’ead !
Wot’s up in ’ere? ’Oo knows?”
“ ’Oo sez there was two dead?”
Upon the velvet grass,
Beside the scornful sea,
They shoved and tried to pass
To view the tragedy.
No more with woodland love
They helped old Time to fly,
Giving for slaps a shove,
And now and then a sigh.
But arms round waistlines wound,
And full of calm delight,
Surveyed with joy profound
The unexpected sight.
They caught the wild “Wot’s up?”
Of those that pushed and shoved.
(On tragedy to sup
Much more than love they loved.)
To very few Pate gives
Joy’s overflowing cup;
The plain bloke while he lives
Must shove and cry, “Wot’s up?”
N.S.W.
KODAK.
SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bright, bright the sun burns up the road. How faint
the wild hops smell!
The. brown cups of boronia blooms with sickly spices
swell.
Spring’s bosom, beating up the wind, has swept the
morning sweet;
Last night between the ringbarked trees I heard
your horse’s feet;
I did not know those hoofs would strike across my
heart to-day,
Now guess how little time it takes to kiss and to
betray.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Headache every now and then? Carry
Headache Cure—-asy to carry, easy to take,
the head in a few minutes.*
Steams’
Clears
Hunyadi
Janos |
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
Bottled at the Spring’s
Used the World over i
Drink on arising a wineglassful for J
INDIGESTION and 1
BILIOUSNESS
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
In a recent publication upon the Panama Canal
the author avers that “Economy” has been the watch-
word of all employed, and that this has been respon-
sible for the splendid success achieved. Canals are
not the only ulaces where economy should be prac-
tised. In the home, on the farm, in fact everywhere,
labor-saving appliances should be extensively em-
ployed. Phillips Ormonde & Co., Consulting Engi-
neers, Patent Attorneys and Trade Mark Agents, 264-
268 Flinders Street, Melbourne.*
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS «& WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
INTEREST AWAKENED.
Interest awakened everywhere in the marvellous
cures of Guts, Burns and Wounds with Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment. Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable
everywhere.*
- ~ ¥
Veal and Tongue
Pate
Is made for those who want
something with which to make
good “ meaty ” sandwiches. It
Is quite as tasty as the famous
Ham Pate, though It costs a
little less.
Ask your grocer for a tin or
two. Each tin holds a quarter
of a pound.
FOCCITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
“Swaddie”: “Binghi” put it luminously
(albeit he may have earned disqualification under
the strict letter of the Lindley Murray rules) as he
picked* himself up, after having been flung yards
high, and then kicked hard by the infuriated steed
he had been essaying to tame: —“Dead! No fear,,
boss! Plenty plurry horses never killed me before!”
IN TOPHET. THE BIRD-NESTER.
“Barcoo Billy”: Noticed recently an ar-
ticle in a magazine, referring to the absolute disap-
pearance of Leichhardt’s expedition, and re-
marking that it is surprising that some
trace was not found of the live stock (horses,
cattle and goats) which accompanied it into
Central Queensland. Evidently the writer of that
article has never been on the Upper Barcoo, or he
would not complain of the scarcity of goats. The
early pioneers found them in large numbers, and
now they infest the landscape. Likewise, in the
ranges on Enniskillen, mobs of clhanskin qattle and
horses, have been running for years past, and for
these even the earliest settlers cannot accotint. Owing
to the nature of the country they are generally un-
molested, and continue to roam at their own free
will. But goats! In spite of periodical killing-off,
many of the Central towns reek of "oat. ProbaMv
.Tericho, on the Jordan (C.Q.), holds the record.
Like the original Jericho, it is a fragrant place.
“J.W.C.” : This is the plain, unvarnished
lie about Danny, the rousey at The Fair Cow, Woolan-
grabbit. In a fit of good feeling towards humanity
he hurled himself into the adjacent river, but was
saved from a timely death by the local John Hop.
Danny was locked up for the night, and next morning
was discharged by the Beak, with a warning not
to do it again. An hour later, Danny was mopping
up our sympathy in the bar. “Gorstruth,” he com-
plained, “them police blokes are the (unspecified)
limit. They’re inhuman (etc.) swine. Look at
me. After they locked me up last night they ' it
me in me wet duds fer four hours. Gorstruth (and
various other things), a bloke might have caught his
death of cold.”
IN A SAFE PLACE.
UNCLR BILL (as the top rail suddenly comes
down with him): “ Ho! it's all very fine
ter you ter laugh. You're all right up there
on the bloomin' orse!"
“Reka” : According to Dr. Roinare, M.L.
Minister for Native Affairs, the pure-bred Maori bids
fair to soon be as. extinct as the moa. So rare is
he . that the Doctor asserts he can count the few re-
maining on the fingers of one
hand. The distinction of being a
Maori is. now much coveted, and
when entering the children at the
, Government colleges the parents
scorn the “Quarter,” “Half” and
“Three-quarter” columns, and
make every effort to get the
children classed as “Maori.” The
teachers are not over strict, and
classify by color rather than by
ancestry. Eketere, very black-
haired and . brown-eyed, chanced
along ,the other day, and was, on
her own statement, entered as
“Maori.” Later came Riria,
equally dark, and by choice
“Maori” also. The third arrival
from the same household was
Anihi, fair-skinned, blue-eyed,
with a cloud of fluffy yellow hair,
who wept bitterly when an as-
tounded teacher declined to mark
her as a Maori, and hastened to
adjust the rest of the family.
Golden-hair’s mother called to
protest, but admitted that the
children were quarter-castes. This
mix-up is not infrequent in such
cases, where the brown strain is
running out, and blue or grey eyes
are as common as brown. Yellow
hair is not uncommon even among
the older Maoris, who attribute it
to inter-marriage with the red-haired race they claim
to have wiped out on their arrival here.
* * * *
“Culex” : “E.S.S.” displays much ignor-
ance about ducks (mountainous and perfumed) when
he affirms (B. 10/10/’l2) that they are purely orna-
mental, and no better to eat than soap. The moun-
tain duck of my acquaintance on the salt lakes round
Esperanee (W.A.), when handled by a judicious chef,
needs no sauce to make him go. Have, also tried the
musk or beralla, and admit that he is somewhat
tough; but when he has been deprived of his as-
bestos hide, and treated firmly, he is as tender as a
spring flapper. Moreover, the musk doesn’t fight over
his fancy feeding ground. I have seen him associate
almost to the verge of familiarity with members of
the teal and other tribes. I allow that “E.S.S.”
knows a lot about ducks; so do I. But mine wear
their own feathers.
“Eucalyptus Ernie”: Consider the quan-
dong. This fruit is of the gayest red color imagin-
able, and its beauty must be designed to tempt
some bird or beast to eat it. The trees never seem
to grow in clumps, but are found scattered through
the bush. Nor are young trees found sprouting
where the fruit falls from the old ones. All this
points to the idea that the seed —a good, solid one
it is, too—needs to pass through the alimentary
canal of some animal before it can germinate. Now,
the birds of the bush are too small; brother kangaroo
surely must be acquitted; and we are left face to
face with the question: Do gohannas swallow quan-
dongs ?
"Pick”: Re the 7ft. high monstrosity, with
grey hair and a face like a baboon, and feet which
resemble those of Jack Johnson, as they would be if
the latter had a couple of immense hands superim-
posed in the section where the toes are—the night-
mare vision which- several prominent citizens of
Monaro have seen, and the hoof-marlcs whereof have
been submitted, in the form of plaster casts, to Pro-
fessor Dav’d. Far be it from me to cast aspersions
on a promising marrow-freeze, but I recall that, in
the Gundary Hills, between Goulburn and Marulan,
some years ago,' a . vast hairy figure, with a bellow
like a fog-horn, frequently put to headlong flight
’possum shooters and other nightly wayfarers. It
has not appeared, curiously enough, since an illicit
distillery was closed down in those parts. Also, in
the Jingera country, the breaking up of a cattle-
duffing syndicate was coincident with the disappear-
ance of a gigantic man-beast, with fur and a deafen-
ing howl and other grisly' appurtenances. I under-
stand that there is an industry near Thoko that would
be all the better, finane'ally and otherwise, for a
wild man or two —the sort of horror that keeps
prying law-abiders at home o’ nights. But, as afore-
said, the last thing I would care to do would be to
shed cold water on any little excitement that is cal-
culated to cheer the dull round of the baclcblocker.
* * * *
“Sr’s” blood-curdling yarn :
. Old Kelly, next door, goes in for pigeon homing,
The practice, as far as I can make out, is for all
those having pigeons to pay some bloke’s fare into
the country, where he lets the birds adrift. Then,
as each bird gets home to the family loft, the pro-
prietor seizes his fowl and bolts to the winning-post,
being allowed 14sec. for each 100 yards he lives from
the judge’s box,. Last Saturday afternoon Kelly and
his missus had some dispute about the absence of
Kelly’s week’s screw. Mrs. Kelly called Kelly to
order by throwing half the kitchen crockery at him,
and Kelly locked her in the bedroom and poured
scalding language through the keyhole. To the ac-
companiment of Mrs. K.’s hysterical yells, our street
gathered round, and the interfering neighbor
street has an interfering neighbor) sent for the
police. The John arrived when all the trouble was
over and peace had obtained once more in Kelly’s
house. The interfering neighbor, however, inferred
from the silence that Kelly had murdered his. wife.
Just then out dashed Kelly with a woman’s head or
something under his coat, and we all fell over one
another to get out of the murderer’s way. Off sailed
Kelly with the John and a bodyguard after him. At
the corner the interfering neighbor, the John and 14
heavy men fell on Kelly and sat on his chest. I
came along just ip time to hear Kelly finish his
speech: “An’ now, .you blanky blanks, see what you’ve
done! I’ve lost two blanky quid.” His mad dash
was for the judge’s box with his homing pigeon.
* * * *
“McLevy”: I demand some information.
Up in Queensland shearers invoke Providence for
rain, when it is a fair thing for a holiday, thus:
“Send it down, Hughie.” Thought it was purely
local until I happened on Manly Beach the other
day, when a storm-cloud banked up and a sun-
browning nude arose and remarked to the sky,
“What’s the game, Hughie?” Does any Abo-liar
know the origin of the term ? I believe the Queens-
land black’s word for cloud is something like
“ugon,” and the shearers and surf-bathers may have
misapplied it to the man behind the gun. If that
is not the explanation, what in fury is?”
“A. Ivito”: I have discovered a substi-
tute for the juice of the cow, and at one fell swish
propose to remove the curse of dairying from Aus-
tralia’s children. The cow cocky and his slaving
family will be a thing of the past when I get going,
and the animal that is emptied into a bucket twice
a day will become a mere provider of meat and
leather. It was a sailor at Port Melbourne who told
me about whale’s milk. He had been a whaler, and
knew what he was talking about. The fish juice,
he said, was exceedingly rich —no better butter or
cheese could be desired. Asked how these Straw-
berries and Polevs of the sea were to be leg-roped
and bailed, he said that they were fonder of music
than were snakes, and if a boy played a mouth organ
they would simply roll over and expose their flowing
udders. The rest was easy.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Am prepared to back the centi-
pedes of Queensland to outpoint the centipedes of
any other Australian State. There are three species ;
at least, there are three I wot of. All Outback
residents know the Sin. yellow crawler whose bite
induces the same frame of mind as you instantly
fall into when you tread barefoot on the camp-fire.
Nc. 2 fiend is 4in. or sin. long. He has a caress that
is a cross between boiling neuralgia and a vision of
the Spanisli Inquisition. The third specimen is 2in. long,
and wears a black and red jersey. His contribution to a
Pleasant Sunday Afternoon feels something like
swallowing a pint of molten grindstone. The pain
of the bite may last for weeks, and the only cure I
know is not to let the animal, or whatever it is,
bite you.
* * * *
“Campflow” shakes up his weight of
years to remember infantile pranks in the Sydney of
long ago: “I left Sydney as a toddler in the ’so’s,
and returned to it as a raw bush youngster in ’63,
taking up my abode with a McKenzie family in
Kent-street South. Went out with Tom McK., aged
14, the first evening of my stay. He told me I must
be ’nishiated before I would be allowed to play
with the push, but, on further consideration, added
that as I was only a little chap, he might get them
to let me off. ‘I can punch the captain, anyway,’ he
said, and that made me feel good in his company.
It happened that there was another candidate for
admission to the craft that evening—a big, soft
youth from Windsor. It was decided on the vote of
the push that he was large enough to stand a double
share of ’nishiation, and so admit us both. He was
soon introduced to the smellful mystery of King of
the Golden Sword, nearty drowned as King of the
Honey Bees, and chased home amid shrieks of mirth
and derision. After that we played ‘Tallyho’ over
and around the graves of the burial-ground, which
occupied the site of the present Town Hall. A low
wall, surmounted by iron railings, enclosed the place
of tombs, and there was a regular boys’ track
through it from Bathurst-street to Druitt-street. I
remember my final run home that night along
Gieorge-street and down Hell Fire-lane. We banged
at all the doors as we passed, and as I brought up
the rear of the hunt, it was my fortune to get the
tail-end of a string of purple language, accompanied
by something much harder. Said something sent me
several yards without using my feet, and rubbed off
some skin and buttons from my front aspect. I
didn’t stay to gather up the lost articles, but col-
lected what was left intact of me, and sprinted my
best for safety. I wonder where that lane was. It
must have been somewhere near Bathurst-street, and
there should be older Sydney boys than I who can
still remember it.”
GROSS EXIRAVAGANCE.
IRATE PROPRIETOR (to star chef): “There is
no kerosene for da lamps! Maladetta!!
You take too much for your salads.”
“Wandi” : The other day a Pummy Grant
(assisted immigrant) was handed a bridle and told
to catch a horse that was feeding in a small square.
Pummy sneaked up behind the quadruped and clutched
him by the tail to prevent him running away.
Luckily he was a children’s pet, and therefore used
to all manner of indignities. However, Pummy re-
turned in a few minutes without him, whistling un-
concernedly. “Where’s the horse?” his employer
demanded. “Oh, I want another bridle,” said
Pummy. “What’s the matter with that one?” “It
won’t fit by quite two inches. The horse’s head’s
too long.” After a brief but rousing interval, Pummy
was enlightened as to what the buckles on the cheek
straps were for. The mxt day he was told to grease
the buggy. As he was a long while over this job
the boss went to see what he was doing. What he
saw struck him speechless for a moment or two. Then
he spoke to Pummy in a manner that astonished him.
He had greased the whole of the vehicle, including
the seat and cushions.
JIMMYJAMBEROO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the past few weeks, the Government Botani-
cal Collector, Mr. J. L. Boorman, has been engaged
collecting specimens of botanical interest in the
Paroo and adjacent districts. He travelled 400 miles,
and made a very comprehensive collection of the
various grasses, fruit and timbers of these parts.
—.4 Bourlce (iV.S.IF.) newspaper item.
And what about the fantods by the Darling’s outer
hanks ?
And the fishes" that are fished for by the hatters and
the cranks?
The jim-jams and deliriums that mercilessly gloat
Before the stony cheque-man’s eyes, and frizzle in his
throat?
What have our friends the horrors done that they
should be ignored
By those scientific searchers, with their coils of
crimson cord ?
From Bourke to Ilungerford, and on to Barringun
and hack,
Are animals that never lived on any other track.
And, bundled all together, what a mixture they
would make! —
The red, and blue, and emerald, and ev’ry kind of
snake;
The centipedes that stand upon their rearmost legs
and talk ;
And those unprecedented worms that fly instead of
walk.
The tall tarantulas that take a fearful furlong stride ;
The lizards that the spiders ev’ry midnight mount
and ride ;
The frogs that stand upon their heads and hideously
croak
A sadder song than any sung by Lawson or by Boake.
Mosquitoes, too, that change to flames as soon as it
is dark ;
The crows that eat the swollen tongue—and quark,
and quark, and quark;
And that queer, gibb’ring ghost that comes, when
night begins to fall,
With icy feet and burning breath —the grimmest ghost
of all!
Who cares for fruit, and grass, and wood?—-ive see
them every day !
The things we really want to see are, those that
went astray
What time the Ark of long ago was resting in the
mud,
And Noah’s eyes were blinded by the scudding of a
scud.
And out beyond the Back o’ Bourke those curious
creatures be—
A weird and unexampled sort of mad menagerie !
They twist and turn ; they freeze and burn ; they roar
as lions do.
In ev’ry shape and size and tint—at Jimmyja'mberoo.
FANTOD LAND.
R. J. CASSIDY.


The new Presicle nt of the U.S.
and his Palicy
IS T
w
STo^y,
c,/\ nr
THE U.S. PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
Professor Woodrow Wilson, the President-Elect of the U.S., announces that he doesn’t stand for Freetrade. All the same, he will
probably try to find out how much clipping the Bird will stand.


FOUND CURE AT LAST.
Ernest Edridge, Halifax Street, Nelson (N.Z.),
says: “All my life I have suffered more or less from
constipation, but am pleased to state that since I
started taking Chamberlain’s Tablets I have found
them to always give me immediate relief, and I can
thoroughly recommend them to anyone suffering from
a like complaint.”*
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
Biliousness and all irregularities of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system as is the case with most medi-
cines used for these troubles. Price, lOid. and Is. 6d.
Obtainable everywhere.*
Brain and body fatigue are quickly relieved by a
dose of Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract. It adds
tone to the system and puts you where you belong.*
GAELI C
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
gfh
For*
DURABILITY.
WHEN
YOU GET
CLEMENTS
TONIC
YOU GET HEALTH TOO.
Nurse Catherine Routing, of
Brunswick, Victoria, writes :
“Fourteen years ago as a nurse
I first used Clements Tonic, and I
have prescribed it times out of
number. I have seen people bless
the day they heard of it.”
ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES SELL IT.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE NATIONAL DRINK.
“How did you come out on the Cup? ”
“ Oh, with just enough to buy a bottle of lysol.”
Until the Baby Bonus came into force the
other day a Stawell (Vic.) farmer never
realised how many people are born before
their time. He has 25 children=(nowadays)
£125.
Died at Port Adelaide, in comfortable
retirement, John Alexander Walker, for-
merly _ well known in Maoriland and Aus-
tralasian waters as master mariner—of the
barques Fleur de Maurice, County of Ayr
and Dunblane. The veteran was 70, which
is young as things go in South Aus.
Exit, at 77, T. J. C. Hantke, one of South
Aus. s many valuable German citizens. lie
landed 60 years ago with much less than a
million in his Rocket, and at the end of 30
years he had not got even half a million.
Drought was the cause. Pie was a squatter
in those days. For the last 30 years he had
been making a pile in the paint-paper-and-
window-glass firm of PI. L. Vosz. The vet-
eran was the father of Miss Ethel Hantke,
the singer.
With the Office Duke’s compliments:—
A trade journal, Fairplay, publishes a yarn that
Mr. Rowland Ferrars Pickering, “for many years
‘Nemo’ of Sydney Mail, and whose father founded
Bell s Life in Sydney', has by the death of an inter-
mediate, become next in line for the title of Earl
Ferrars and the £62,000 per annum that the estates
yield. The present earl is 65 years of age, and his
heir, according to my “Burke,” is an architect,
Walter Knight Shirley (family name of Ferrers), of
Victoria-road, Kensington. One Earl Ferrers was
hanged at Tyburn for the murder of his steward in
1760, a rope of silk being used on the occasion. So
much for the earl. Rowley Pickering’s father did not
found Bell's Life in Sydney. It was founded in
1845 by one Joseph Roberts, of Burwood, whose
widow sold to Charles Hamilton Nichols in 1849.
Nichols took George Ferrers Pickering into partner-
ship- , The widow Roberts afterwards became the
vvife of Sir John Lackey, M.L.C. Pickering was mar-
ried to a sister of Eyre Goulburn Ellis, the solicitor
and partner in the old-time firm of Ellis and Makin-
son. He sat in the fifth N.S.W. Parliament, re-
presenting the northern goldfields. He was a good
sport, a _ thorough aristocrat—which was probably
why in his old age he looked upon the wine He is
understood to have died in Fiji. Rowley Pick the
son, was left a fortune by lawyer Ellis, who never
married.
A seismograph placed in the neighborhood
of the late King Edward’s grave would pro-
bably record movements in the coffin. The
corpse must be quite dizzy from turning in
its grave. The memoir by Sydney Lee in
the supplement of “The Dictionary of Nat-
ional Biography” attacked the elaborate pre-
sence that Edward was a “peace-maker.”
Now, in the Fortnightly, Edward Legge
retorts. When the butcher of Servia was
trying to get the Powers to recognise his
murder of Alexander aud Draga as an act
of mere absent-mindedness, Edward refused
on behalf of England. “My job,” he practi-
cally told the ambassadors, “is to be King.
Alexander’s job was also to be King. As
you see, we belonged to the same guild. I
cannot be indifferent to the assassination of
a member of my profession, or. if you like,
a member of my guild. We should be
obliged to shut up our businesses if we, the
kings, considered the assassination of kings
as of no consequence at all.” Edward was a
good trade-unionist. Legge states that
Edward was primarily a business man, a
royal merchant, acting as his own commer-
cial traveller, and “booking orders” right
and left, on his journeys. He disliked the
Kaiser. ; “The personal relations of King
and Kaiser lapsed into comparative calm
only when they were apart from each other.
....The restlessness, the eccentricitv and
the unaccountability of the nephew were a
constant source of irritation to the long-
suffering uncle.” The squabbles are interest-
ing reading.
The Royds, whose homestead is down
Braidwood way (N.S.W.), have a unique
collection of turf trophies won by horses
bred by themselves. Amongst them is a
cup known as the First Australian Prize,
won by Rob Roy, on Hyde Park (Sydney)
racecourse in 1819. The winner was
owned by the grandfather of the late E. M.
Royds, of Balladabra, near Braidwood. The
cup is of silver, and bears this inscription:
“Fortitudine et celeritate,
Pledge from this Cup, the First Australian Prize;
May each revolving year the races bring,
That training horses from these sports may rise.
Health to the patron. Long live the King!
Sydney, May 31, 1819.
Given by the inhabitants to the proprietors
of the winning horse.”
The “poetry” is supposed to be from the
pen of an accomplished rogue, Michael
Massey Robinson. This Robinson, who may
be considered Australia’s pioneer poet, was
an attorney in good practice, transported in
1798 for “an attack on Mr. Oldham.” the
“attack” being merely a threatening letter.
Robinson came out in the ship Barwell in
a special cabin. The same vessel brought
Judge-Advocate Dore, and the pair chummed
on _ the voyage. Dore, glad to have the
assistance of such a lawyer, spoke well of
him to Governor Hunter, who immediately
granted Robinson local emancipation, and
appointed him clerk-associate to the Judge-
Advocate. When Macquarie assumed office
in 1810 he gave him another lift by making
him chief clerk in the Secretary’s office, a
post of some importance.
GEORGE T.
CLARKE ,
Mayor of Sydney.
B. L. Farjeon, the one-time compositor
on Melbourne Argus, w T ho went to England
and for 30 years was a machine for turning
out melodramatic yarns, has a son and
daughter coming to the front in London —
former as musical composer, latter as song-
writer. Their mother was a daughter of
Joe Jefferson, the famous American actor
and creator of Rip Van Winkle.
THE GLAMOR OF THE STAGE.
Ihe matinGe of “Ben Hur” was largely attended
by ministers of religion. During the intervals after-
noon tea was served to the visitors. The Rev. F B
Cowling came before the curtain after the chariot
race, and, on behalf of the clergy, stated that he
wished to say how grateful they all were for a
thoroughly enjoyable afternoon’s entertainment.
He: ‘■‘■Haw! I believe the parsons got quite
excited during the chariot race this ajter-
noon.’’
She: “How absurd! Why , it wasn’t half as
• jolly as the Cup!”
William Brown, of Newcastle (N.S.W.),
owner of Melbourne Cup winner Piastre, is
brother of John Brown, owner of Duke
Foote. The course of brotherly love has
not run smoothly between John and Wil-
liam. Their rivalry extended to the race-
course, and William was credited with being
more than anxious that his moke should
make an unholy show of John’s Duke Foote.
Anyway, that is how Newcastle explains
things, but as Newcastle made a pot on
I lastre, Newcastle may be merely talking
through the neck of its gold-top bottle.
The King of the Loyalty Islands, Jacob
William Watriama, is in Melbourne begging
the Prime Minister to take over his islands
and himself. Jacob would much rather be
annexed by Johnnie Bull than by Jean
Crapaud, because Johnnie always has a nice
kindly face. . Jacob says the French Nickel
L°- is bringing Japanese soldiers into New
Caledonia as miners, and they are overrun-
ning the place. This wise brown king fur-
ther thinks the Japs, are looking for Aus-
tralia first, and will swallow him after; so
he proposes that Australia should swallow
him and defend him against the Japs, by-
and-bye.
As soon as a Decent Guy gets on top in
the United States, the press, or his section
of it, sets to work deliberately to convert
him into a Great Man. Woodrow Wilson,
President-elect of the Republic, is now un-
dergoing the process. Already he is a
gigantic figure ; but he is going to be more
magnificent later on, when the painters and
decorators have got their hands in. Some
extracts from a recent article, by C. R.
Macaulay, indicate how the job is being
done: — •
The slight stoop into which he invariablv falls,
when standing or sitting, is not that which comes
from the weight of years. It is a scholastic stoop
—the stoop of the scholar and the thinker. .. .The
posture was well exemplified in the immortal Abra-
ham Lmeoln. .Napoleon had it, as did Frederick
the Great ' and Caesar—three indomitable warriors.
After, that burst, one hardly notices that
Voltaire and Thomas Carlyle are also
rushed into Wilson’s company. Again:—
His eyes are worthy of careful study. They are
fathoms deep, keen and penetrating, but withal
kindly to a degree. They utterly controvert the
popular impression that their owner is cold, un-
sympathetic, and not easily approachable.
Here we witness the installation of the
Great Man’s 40-h.p. heart. The Yankee writer
wandered reverefttly round the immortal.
When I was a boy,” he said, “I had a pas-
sionate fondness for the navy. My great
desire was to enlist in the service and become
a sailor By way of contrast (and this is
probably the one true thing in the whole
boiling), it is mentioned that he loves non-
use rhymes like the “Purple Cow” and
the Walrus and the Carpenter.” When
it became plain that he was the coming
figurehead, 200 or 2000 reporters came and
camped on his lawn to study him closely and
make him Great. Who couldn’t be great
with the help of 20,000 reporters?
Last year Thomas Ralph, an exceedingly
popular young man of Ararat (Vic.), was
by an accident discovered to be a masquer-
ading girl named Annie Read. Tiring of
the notoriety her prank had brought her,
she donned skirts and faded away in the
distance. Some little time ago Thomas Rus-
sell appeared in Invercargill (M.ij.), and
became intensely popular among the young
men. But the popu-
larity was suddenly
blasted by a breath of
suspicion. Russell
took sudden fright, and
ago in faded out of
sight in the direction
of Dunedin. In that
city of True Blue
Scotchbyterianism a
similar “joke” took on
the mantle of Tragedy.
A fellow boarder wan-
dered into “Tom Par-
ker’s” bedroom to see
why that popular
young man had not
come down to tea.
Thomas was on the
bed, but did not reply
when spoken to, so the
fellow-boarder struck
a light, and then
reeled. For on the bed
lay “Thomas Parker,”
quite unconscious, and
beside the unconscious
form a little baby girl,
newly born, but cold
and dead. “Thomas
Parker” was in a bad
way, and before mid-
night she, too, was
dead.
“Chasuble”: A thing or two more about
the late eminent Rev. Treacy, founder and
head of the Christian Brothers order in
Australia (B. 7/11/’l2). Born in Tip-
perary, he became a pupil of the Christian
Brothers there. The school was under Bro-
ther Larkin, who had unsuccessfully tried
to found the brotherhood in Sydney. In due
time Treacy entered the order. About 1867,
Archbishop Goold, of Melbourne, sent to the
Superior-General for brothers. The N.S.W.
failure blocked this, until Goold appealed to
the Pope, whose influence caused Bros.
Treacy, Bodkin, Lynch and Nolan to be sent
to Melbourne. Treacy was in charge. They
began at St. Francis’s in 1869 with 200
boys, O’Shanassy was enthusiastic for
them; also Plunkett, of N.S.W., then in
Melbourne. He was determined on extension
to Sydney. A Melbourne meeting put £llOO
in Treacy’s hands. He diligently canvassed
for more, and soon bought from Benjamin
Benjamin, for £3OOO, the splendid little half-
acre in Victoria Parade, on which the Chris-
tian Brothers’ School was built —largely by
indefatigable travel and art union. Treacy’s
other monuments comprise colleges at
Nudgee (Q.), Adelaide and Perth, and the
Novitiate at Strathfield (N.S.W.).
B. K. WISE , K.C.
Cornthwaite Rason,
sometime Premier,
and af terwa rds
Agent - General of
Westralia, lias been
dribbling th r ougli
London Bankruptcy
Court. When his
term as Agent-Gen-
eral came to a close,
he had a bank bal-
ance of £4OO. He
had “financially as-
sisted, and had since
continued to help,
two Westral ian
friends, and by do-
ing so had incurred
a loss of £2OOO,
through bill tran-
sactions and money
lent.” After ceasing
to be Agent-General,
Rason became a gui-
nea-pig, among his
cos. being the Aus-
tralian Bovril Es-
tates, Ltd. The
guinea - pigging
brought him in £l2OO a year, but that
wasn’t nearly enough to keep the pot
boiling.
THE LIBERAL HANDSHAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When we shake hands with a Laborit'e, he (’ops
not know that we are feel ins’ his hand to ascertain
whether he is telling the truth or not about his
past life. —Bruce Smith in the Reps.
We clasp their base-born hands with zest;
Their vulgar breasts expand with joy ;
Consuming pride is manifest
Upon their faces. ’Twoukl annoy
The Socialistic dogs to know
The reason why We treat them so.
They think We take their grimy paws
Within Our manicured hands,
And oscillate the same because
We like the owners. How it brands
These Labor upstarts, near and far,
For the conceited hounds they are!
Do Royal Dukes demean themselves
So low as to consort with hinds ?
Does he who loafs with him who delves
Associate? Do master-minds
Collogue with fools for preference?
No! No! The thing's not common-fcense.
And so with Us. Although We seem
Consumed with warmth and love, no less;
Although Our hand-grips fairly teem
With what might pass for friendliness,
’Tis but a fraudulent pretence—-
Each “shake’s” a hunt for Evidence.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


/
1
HE
-
■SB
m
it
x x
m
k
mm
m
Mm
a
m
IS
s:
n
tr M
A
//Mmh
m
if®
at
Only Six Weeks to Christmas!
YES, it’s only six weeks to Christmas. We are already very busy on Christmas orders,
although we keep twelve cutters constantly going. You should get your Christmas
Suit in hand at once, and you can rely on our guarantee to give you the utmost satis-
faction in finish, wear, quality and comfort. We have the most complete range of all kinds
of Summer-time Suitings.
We quote the Austral to measure, 635., 705., 755.; the Austral Special (hand-made),
845., 905., 955., 105 s. and 115 s. Drop in on us during the week. If you cannot call, a
postcard will bring you self-measurement form and patterns, also General Catalogue of 120
pages of everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear. All orders carriage paid in Australia.
GOWING BROS.,
486, 488 & 490 George Street; and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Six weeks to Christmas, six weeks to go,
To the happy holidays, men and maidens know.
Think about your present, think about your dress,
Think about your Christmas fete, and its happiness.
Six weeks to Christmas, only six I vow,
Six weeks will quickly pass, give your orders now.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SISKOL" ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd .
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.
465 Collins St., Melbourne •
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney) :
Reserves
(not in-
cluding
£500,000
Depre-
To Re- ciation
Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
Sept., 1904.. £105,111 10 p.C. = £104,608 £503 £423,416
Mar., 1905.. 155,322 15 ~ 164,705 414,033
Sept., 1905.. 112,343 10 ~ ~ 109,965 2.378 416,411
Mar., 1900.. 112,042 10 ~ ~ 110,000 2,042 418,453
Sept.., 1906.. 111,679 10 ~ ~ 110,000 1,679 420,132
Mar., 1907.. 110, 527 10 ~ ~ 110,000 827 420,959
Sept., 1907.. 118,057 10 ~ ~ 110,000 8,057 429,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised .. 354,016
Mar., 1908.. 134,782 10p.c.= 124,037 10,745 364,761
Sept., 1908.. 146,493 10 ~ ~ 124,885 21,608 386,369
£350,000 of reserves capitalised .. 36,369
Mar., 1909.. 162,632 10p.c.= 142,500 20,132 56,501
Sept., 1909.. 168,881 10 „ „ 142,500 26,381 82,882
Mar., 1910.. 175,590 1.0 ~ ~ 142,500 33,090 115,972
Sept., 1910.. 196,714 10 ~ ~ 142,500 54,214 170,186
£150,000 of reserves capitalised .. 20,186
Mar., 1911.. 207,428 10p.c.= 150,000 57,428 77,614
Sept., 1911.. 210,830 11 „ „ 165,000 45,830 123,444
Mar., 1912.. 225,601 12£ ~ ~ 187,500 35,101 161,545
Sept., 1912.. 229,629 12J ~ „ 187,500 42,129 203,674
How much more than £229,629 was made in the
half-year this paper doesn’t know. Anything more
that was made was put into plant or other pro-
perty, and the cost was written off, ostensibly against
the depreciation of other assets. Also, in connection
with the Sugar Commission, “our expenses, which
were considerable, have been written off.” Happy
co. would only pay the whole cost of most expensive
litigation and still show the biggest profit on re-
cord —a profit in excess of 15 p.c. upon the profusely-
watered capital! So far the co. has scored ; in fact,
it has got so into the habit of scoring that, when
there is any public outcry against it and its ways, it
usually says in effect —“Bah ! What do we care for
public outcries ! We make and distribute too much
profit, you think? Well, just to show how much we
care what you think, we’ll divide something extra
this time.” The management has repeatedly pursued
that policy of exasperation; and if it gets a hard
hit one of these days it will have only itself to
thank. They who live by the sword shall die by
the sword. And the investor who doesn’t remember
it is liable to be sorry.
Making the usual few moans at the half-yearly
meeting, chairman lvater, of the Sugar Co., said:
“The only other matter to which I need now allude
is the recent attack on the Gas Light Co. by the
Ministry of this State. The proposal to confiscate
a large part of the shareholders’ assets is one which
all interested in the business life of Australia should
bear in mind, especially when the vote for the
Referendum is to be taken next year.” Quite right.
The Referendum next year is to decide, among other
things, whether certain powers shall be taken from
the State and given to the Commonwealth. Evi-
dently Mr. Kater is now of the very proper opinion
that the Commonwealth should have these powers,
the State Government having proved itself not, in
his opinion, fit to be trusted. It is support for the
Referendum proposals from a quite unexpected quar-
ter. Still, The Bulletin can see that the State
Government has driven Mr. Kater to it.
* * * *
The Bank of Australasia :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Oct., 1903.. £151.598 12 p.c. = £96,000 £25,000£1,146,951
Apl., 1904.. 150,934 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,176,585
Oct., 1904.. 140,066 12 „ ~ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apl., 1905.. 136,153 12,, „ 96,000 10,000 1,237,104
Oct., 1905.. 137,451 12 ~ „ 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
Anl., 1906.. 137,795 12 „ ~ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oct., 1906.. 153,512 14 „ ~ 112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Ap1.,1907.. 227,463 14,, ~112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., 1907.. 188,750 14 „ ~112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Ap1.,1908.. 212,029 14 „ ~112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct., 1908.. 187,691 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl., 1909.. 174,111 14 „ ~112,000 12,000 1,676,906
0ct.,1909.. 177,566 14,, ~112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Apl., 1910.. 193,722 16 „ ~128,000 18,000 1,775,194
Oct., 1910.. 198,531 16,, ~ 128,000 20,000 1,825,725
Apl., 1911.. 198,460 16,, ~128,000 20,000 1,876,185
Oct., 1911.. 205,889 17 „ ~ 136,000 20,000 1,926,074
Apl., 1912.. 208,171 17,, ~136,000 20,000 1,978,245
The ’Asia has mana —which, so far as a bank is con-
cerned, means that when an Australian has no special
or personal reason for taking his business to any
bank in particular, the chances are he will turn into
one of three or four because he has a vague idea
that in some indefinite way they stand at the top
of the tree. Possibly a good deal of this feeling was
born at the time of the great burst, when the public
took note of the fact that the ’Asia, the Union and
the Wales pulled through. Certainly one or two
others didn’t keep anybody waiting on the door-mat
either; but, as subsequent events proved, those two
or three would have been better off if they had hung
things up for a while. Anyway, there is the fact:
the ’Asia has a fine connection, and apparently
doesn’t have to chase good business with a lasso.
It will be noticed that large sums are shown as
written off. These have been mainly in reduction
of the premises account, which stands now at an
utterly absurd £61,006. It is evidently intended to
write this asset down to nothing. Of course it is
really worth a great deal; for there are not only the
banking premises—there are large numbers of hired-
out offices as well. The difference between the book
value and the market value forms an internal re-
serve. In April, 1894, the premises were alleged to
be worth £444,102. Probably half a million or
thereabouts has been put into buildings, etc., since
then, and the market value of the whole lot may be
£750,000. If it is, the ’Asia is plainly £688,994
better off than it claims to be—that is to say, it is
better off by the difference between the true value
and the book value. When a bank adopts a policy
of hard writing down, and at one point where the
matter can be probed is stronger even than it ap-
pears to be on the surface, the public naturallv
takes most of the rest for granted. Hence, in part,
the mana before mentioned.
As the bank has large assets which it does not
show, its earnings in proportion to capital and visible
reserves combined are naturally very high:—
Profits in Proportion to Shareholders’ Funds.
Oct., 1907 £l2 9 sp.c. I Apl., 1910 £ll 12 lOp.c.
Apl., 1908 13 4 10 ~ . 1910 11 15 g
Oct., 1908 11 16 9 „ I Apl., 1911 11 11 B’’
Apl., 1909 10 15 10 ~ I Oct., 1911 11 16 11 „
Oct., 1909 10 16 9 „ I Apl., 1912 11 16 2 „
And this high rate of ean. is not accompanied
by excessive risks, the result of excessive liabilities:
it has a shade less than £6 of deposits, etc., for
every £1 of its own funds (capital and visible re-
serves). The principal movements in the past 12
months are set out next: —
April, ’ll. April, ’l2.
Notes .. £515,846 £210,441 Dec. £305,405
Bills, etc. . . 2,836,033 2,887,447 Inc. 51,414
Deposits . . 18,422,949 18,196,527 Dec. 226,422
Liquid Assets 9,433,218 7,882,299 Dec. 1,550,919
Advances . . 15,836,932 17,065,355 Inc. 1,228,423
Premises . . 108,863 61,006 Dee. 47,857
The bank has had heavy calls made upon it during
the year, and, in the absence of new deposit money,
its liquid assets have been cut into pretty deeply.
Nevertheless, at the end of April, 37 p.c. of the
liabilities were still represented by liquid assets,
which is a trifle better than the average holding,
though a good deal less than this bank has been sit-
ting behind lately—another proof of the fact that
even this exceptionally strong institution isn’t in a
position to make any large amount of advances at
present, and that the yarn about the banks hanging
on to vast sums of idle money is all rubbish.
* * * *
Vic. State Coal Mine (Wonthaggi)
This enterprise borrowed £150,000 from the
Treasury for a start, and by June 30 last owed the
State another £11,605; but meantime £7050 had
been paid back, leaving a net liability of £154,555.
Practically all the money was put into plant and
development. The land belonged to the State: it is
not valued at anything, and apparently is not ex-
pected to give any return. The profit shown for
the two years the mine has been worked is as fol-
lows :—-
Written
Z off for To Sink- Total
Depreciation, ing Fund. Profit.
1911 .. .. £17,052 £7,050 £24,102
1912 . . . . 1,892 7,942 9,834
Total .. £18,944 £14,992 £33,936
The actual depreciation during the past year was
estimated at £10,709 ; so, reckoning that as a fair
charge, there was an actual loss of £875 on the last
year’s operations. The poor result is due to labor
troubles —which, of course, should never have occurred
in State employ—insufficient capital expenditure,
etc.
An entirely wrong principle is adopted in connec-
tion with the sinking fund. The accumulation of
money, with the help of compound interest, is one
of the essential features of such a fund. In this
case the idea apparently is to use the money to pay
off debt. That sounds all right; but it isn’t. An
enterprise borrows say £150,000 to buy mine or
other machinery. A depreciation fund is established
to replace machinery as it is worn out. A sinking
fund is also established to pay off the debt. Now, it
is a fair thing, the machinery having cost £150,000,
to ask it to go on paying interest on £150,000.
There is no reason why in the second vear it should
pay interest on only £140,000. Yet that is all it is
asked to do if the sinking fund contribution is
used year by year to reduce the debt. If £7500 is
used to pay off debt year by year, obviously it will
take 20 years to wipe the thing out; whereas if the
sinking fund is accumulated at 4 p.c. compound in-
terest, it will take only 14 years and some months.
The plan adopted is the lazy way—the way of
shuffling out of a little bit of interest every year,
though the machinery (a renewal fund being pro-
vided) ought to be earning quite as much interes 4 '.
etc., in the 19th year as it was in the first year. Instead
of certifying such accounts as correct, it ; s time some
Auditor-General told the truth about them, and re-
norted that the alleged sinking fund was a sinking
fraud.
Finney, Isles and Co., Ltd., retail soft-
goods people chiefly, of Brisbane: —
Towards
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1904 .. £17,566
1905 .. £4,179 6 p.c. = £1,768 £2,411 15,155
1906 .. 5,323 6„ „ 1,909 3,414 11,741
1907 .. 9,457 6„ „ 2,189 7,268 4,473
R6S6rV6S.
1908 . . 12,767 6 „ „ 3,929 8,838 4,365
1909 .. 14,898 6 ~ „ 3.983 10 915 15,280
Provided for depreciation, £3000.. 12,280
1910 .. 11,694 6 p.c. = 4,037 7,657 19,937
1911 .. 19,863 8 „ „ 6,815 13,048 32,985
Premiums on new shares. . 4,062 37,047
1912 .. 16,856 8 p.c. = 13,057 3,799 40,846
There is a trifle to be shorn off the profits for the
past year and paid away in bonuses to employees.
The Bulletin won’t swear to the figures for previous
years, though any adjustments that might have to
be made would be immaterial. The trouble has been
that hitherto no printed balance-sheet had been
issued, and the information otherwise available was
fragmentary. The lack of information was due to
the peculiar circumstances under which the co. was
formed. There were three partners in the old firm
of Finney, Isles and Co. in its latter days—Tom
Finney and two juniors. The present co. was the out-
come of the struggle of the juniors to retain a hold on
a concern in which they had 5 tons llcwt. of faith.
To make matters as easy as possible the Queensland
Trustees, Finney’s executor, left close-on £50,000 in
the business, on certain conditions. They weren’t
bad conditions; still, the directors thought it well
to get their head out of this bail while the State was
affluent: hence the new canital issue (at 2s. pre-
mium) last year. The premium, less exes., is added
to the reserves.
Nearly £70,000 was thus got in, and less than
£25,000 was needed to remove the last of the Finney
plaster. The balance has gone partly into stock and
partly into still further additions to premises. This
shows the sprightly movement of this co. in detail :• —
1905. 1909. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Capital .. .. £29,462 £66,392 £67,293 £85,193 £151,993
Debt toFinnev’s 42,704 30,507 27,458 24,407
Other liabilities 60,962 111,674 133,795 126,898 128,798
Stock .. .. 60,878 82,106 89,119 106,601 136,940
Real property.. 7,665 58,266 84,332 87,671 109,078
Rook debts .. 25,550 43,876 45,122 51,631 54,874
Other assets .. 25,648 43,588 34,649 31,535 29,129
That is pretty swift going ; and if there are any old
stagers among the shareholders, they have probably
lost their breath long ago. The co. can’t, however,
be justly accused of over-trading. Seven years ago
its capital was less than one-half of its liabilities;
now the capital is nearly 20 p.c. greater than the
liabilities. And whereas there were less than no re-
serves seven years ago, there are very substantial
ones to-day. Of course, this all means that the
shareholders have put up a lot of money. But it also
means that the shareholder’s £1 hasn’t got to take
anything like the risk. it had to seven years ago. For
another thing, £97,572, or two-thirds of the capital,
is in freeholds, apart from fixtures, etc. No doubt
freehold values slump ; still, a block in the heart of
a city is more of a gilt-edged security than a con-
signment of chiffons. For which reason shareholders
have no right to expect that the present capital will
make profits at anything like the same rate as the
capital of a few years back. As to profit, by the
way, last year's figures were shrunk by the Badger
trouble. Queensland is a place very liable to trouble,
and trouble means erratic profits." Prior to the past
year things had been going with a quite unusual
swing: wherefore this paper isn’t at all convinced
that the profits of Queensland enterprises for those
years were normal. The energetic Finney-Isles man-
agement has, however, so many new agencies for
whinpiqg up profit that a receding tide probably
wouldn’t carry the figures very far from their recent
average.
-** * •
Harts, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney :■ —-
Written To Re- De-
Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, ficit.
Dec., 1909.. £11,700
Dec., 1910.. £5296 7p.c. = £2BOl £2OOO £495 11,205
Further goodwill items, £2s ! ' .. .. 11,455
June, 1911.. 4169 8 p.c. = 2000 1800 369 11,086
Dec., 1911.. 2625 8,, ~ 2000 200 425 10,661
June, 1912.. 4568 8 ~ ~ 2000 2000 56S 10,093
The public got its first small look into this business
in 1910, when printed accounts were issued for the
first time, the object being, admittedly, to encourage
the subscription of some outside money. At that
time the capital was £40,007 in £1 shares. The
other 9993 shares were then issued at par, the man-
aging director, Philip Hart, guaranteeing an aver-
age 7 p.c. div. up to the end of 1913, and backing
his guarantee by a deposit of 20,000 shares in the
co. The £11,700 deficit with which the table starts
was the amount paid (in shares, apparently) for
the goodwill of the business. That, of course, is a
paper asset pure and simple. There is another of
very much the same character —“Leases, £7000.”
There is, of course, nothing whatever to show for
that amount. The vendors, it seems, made contracts
with certain landlords, or certain other lessees who
had the right to sub-let; and those vendors think (or
thought in 1910) that they had got £7OOO the best of
the bargains—that is to say, that somebody else
would pay them £7OOO more than they paid them-
selves. Possibly. The Bulletin doesn’t know.
But it is a very doubtful asset, anyhow. Another
paper asset dropped into the accounts after the new
issue of shares, “Flotation exes., less £125 written
off, £125.” Subsequently this other £125 disap-
peared, and this paper has had to surmise that it
was written off out of profits. The large amounts
shown in the table as written off are to cover de-
preciation—a pretty large matter where cups and
saucers are concerned. This was the position as at
June 30:—
Stock, cash and book debts, less liabilities.. £4,573
Plant, furniture and machinery (less depre-
ciation reserves) . . . . . 21,019
Paper assets (goodwill and leases) . . . . 19,245
Leasehold improvements . . . . .. 8,769
Total assets .. .. .. ..£53,606
The assets in the first line are good, in the second
line fair; the others are doubtful. The position,
therefore, is not brilliant. Profits, certainly, have been
satisfactory enough, though a very great deal de-
pends upon whether the right amount has been writ-
ten off to cover smashes, chips and other deprecia-
tion.
* * * *
The Co-operative Assurance Co., Ltd.
(Sydney).—Registered in July, 1911, this co. began
business in October. The first year’s figures of an
insurance concern are generally pretty shuddersome,
and these don’t come to blows with the rule. Things
ran out like this :—-
Preliminary and extension exes. . . £4,654
Other expenses . . . . . . 11,971
Death claims . . . . . . 104
Total outgoings .. .. ..£16,729
Premiums . . . . . . . . £3SSO
Interest. . . . . . . . . . 861
Total income . . . . . . . . 4,441
Deficiency for the year . . . . £12,288
Add £3OOO, the book value of 6000 shares issued to
the promoters, and you have a present deficit of
£15,288. That is to say, of the capital of £38,894
the foregoing amount is not represented by assets
that are visible to anything except the eye of faith.
More than that, it has to be noted that the share-
holders’ capital has been earning interest; and
under ordinary circumstances the shareholders
would therefore want a dividend—that in-
terest, in short, with a little bit added for
luck. Also, claims are exceedingly small during
the first year or so of a co.’s operations, because all
policies are new, and a medical examination, while
it won’t protect a man against tuberculosis four or
five years afterwards, should at least save a society
from admitting a man who has the marks of early
death on him. So, one way and another, while it is
inevitable that an insurance office’s expenses during
the first year or two must be abnormally large, it
is equally clear that the outgoings in claims should
be abnormally miall. Things are not so altogether
one-sided as the conductors of young offices generally
try to make out.
“Preliminary and establishment exes.” are lumped
into one heap. This is objectionable. Prelim, exes.,
including the promoters’ £3OOO, ought to be one
item ; establishment exes., if included as an asset at
all (and it is a very poor asset), ought to be separ-
ated. Also, it is most undesirable that all general
exes. —directors’ fees, salaries, commissions, etc.—
should be bundled together. Not only shareholders,
but policy-holders as well, are entitled to know what
directors’ fees and medical-referee fees, for example,
run to. If this information isn’t given, intending
policy-holders can only assume that it isn’t satisfac-
tory enough to give ; and where there is even a doubt,
the intending policy-holder will unquestionably go
to one of the older and proved offices —provided, of
course, he regards insurance as an ordinary business
matter. Admittedly, there are thousands of people
who don’t.
The co. is in 500,000 shares, 128,240 of which have
been issued ; 16,035 of them are fully paid and the
balance are paid to 6s. At least, calls have been
made up to 6s. Policy-holders are entitled to regard
this money as a guarantee (as far as it will go) of
the satisfaction of all claims —that is to say, that
the widow will get paid when the policy-holder dies.
A purely mutual office, without share capital, cannot,
of course, offer any such guarantees. On the other
hand, the public has to remember that the investor
doesn’t risk his money for nothing, and is going to
presently share in the profits, if there are any. That
doesn’t necessarily mean, however, that policy-holders
will get smaller bonuses. The theory of the thing is
that, having a direct interest in making profits, the
shareholders will run the business on stricter prin-
ciples, and that the policy-holders will thereby gain
more than they lose through having to share profits.
The new office is pushing the idea of house-purchase
in conjunction with life assurance. It is new to
Australia, though it has been worked satisfactorily
elsewhere; and, given economical management, it
deserves encouragement here.
* * * *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) ;
Writ-
-0 ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Mar., 1995.. £8,053 10p.c. = £6,250 £3OOO £11,755
Sept., 1905.. 8,427 5,, „ 3,185 2000£3,242 14.997
Mar., 1906.. 3,528 5 „ „ 3,554 1000 13,971
Sept,., 1906.. 2,368 5 „ „ 3,750 12,589
Mar, 1907.. 6,666 5 „ ~ 3,750 2000 916 13,505
Sept., 1907.. 14,916 10,, „ 7,500 7000 416 13,921
Mar., 1908.. 19,782 10 ~ „ 7,500 6500 5,782 19,703
Sept., 1908.. 16,829 10,, „ 7,500 2500 6,829 26,532
Mar., 1909.. 9,510 10 ~ „ 7,500 2000 10 26,542
Sept., 1909.. 9,130 10 ~ „ 7,500 IC3O 26,542
Loss.
Mar., 1910.. 3073 Nil 23,469
Profits.
Sept., 1910.. 26,263 15 p.c. =11,250 4000 11,013 34,482
Mar., 1911.. 12,665 15 „ ~11,250 - 1,415 35,897
Sept., 1911 .. 12,281 10 ~ ~ 7,500 4,781 40,678
Mar., 1912.. 8,125 10 ~ ~ 7,500 3500 37,803
Sept., 1912.. 15,290 10,, ~ 7,500 3050 4,740 42,543
This co. owns the East Greta freehold and Stanford
Merthyr leasehold coal mines, and the fairly exten-
sive East Greta railway; and one way and another
it is on about as good a wicket as any mining con-
cern on the Newcastle and Maitland field. Of late
years it has wrapped up its figures in such a way
that very little good can be got out of them. What,
however, is known is that it was at one time (and
probablv still is) so conservatively managed that the
book value of the mining properties was written down
to almost nothing. Five years ago, before the smoth-
ering policy was introduced, the East Greta mine
stood in the accounts at only £10,499, and the Stan-
ford Merthyr at £9OO0 —figures which suggest that
the real reserves are a great deal more than they
are represented to be. Following the published
figures, here are the movements since 1907:
Sept., ’O7. Sept., ’l2.
Total liabilities ..£18,202 £58,817 Inc. £40,615
Assets.
Mines, plant, etc. .. 174,934 218,758 Inc. 43,824
Cash 513 Dee. 513
Sundry debtors, etc. .. 21,177 40,102 Inc. 18.925
But this paper won’t swear that a great deal more
than £43,824 has not been put into mines, plant,
etc. ; if it has been, it has been provided out of
profits, and written off, ostensibly against deprecia-
tion.
The Victorian Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne) :
Nominal
Julv, Loss. Reserves. July, Loss. Deficit.
1898 ..£7307 £8942 1905 .. £3120 £10,561
1899 . . 5649 3293 1906 . . 3033 13,594
1900 . . 3061 232 1907 . . 2941 16,535
1908 . . 8565 25,100
Deficit. 1909 . . 1385 26,485
1901 . . 2235 2003
1902.. 1585 3588 1910 .. 9913 36,398
1903 .. 1472 5060 1911.. 778 37,176
1904.. 2381 7441 1912.. 2793 39,969
This is another of the long-distance undertaking
establishments of Melbourne. The funeral of the
old boom has lasted for nearly 20 years, and the
turning of the last sod seems a long way off yet. It
was the old.trouble —not only was the shareholders’
money advanced on securities at ridiculously inflated
value's, but a big sum of deposit and other public
money went the same way. The values were so
inflated, in fact, that the time soon came when, in
order to make ends meet, the creditors had to forego
most of their interest. In 1894 they consented (it
was practically liooson’s choice) to take 24 n. 0.,
and, so far as this paper knows, that is the thin
skillv they have been feeding on ever since. The
Profit and Loss account doesn’t show the outgoings
in interest; the net interest earnings are shown —
presumably after deduction of interest paid. Last
year these earnings amounted to £6401, and after
paying for management and upkeep of property, etc.,
the society was £604 to the bad. In addition to
that there was the usual loss on properties sold;
that is to say, thev didn’t fetch what they stand at
in the books. This shows the progress of the
funeral: —•
1898. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Fixed deposits £251.1 55 £163,779 £154,295 £143,609
Mortgages . . 79,771 11,235 5,827 1,578
Other liabilities 8,279 5,252 5,466 5,016
Total debts . . 339,205 180,266 165,588 150,203
Advances . . 558,773 364,871 350,072 332,622
Payments in ar-
rear . . 19,734 10,234 9,729 8,996
Other assets .. 1,129 252 101 106
Total assets . . 579,636 375,357 359,902 341,724
Thus between 1898 and j•) 12—14 years —the liabili-
ties have been reduced from £339,205 to £150,203,
or by £189,002. Meantime the assets have been
reduced by £237,912. So it has taken £237,912
of assets (book value) to pay off £189,002 of debt;
and there still remains £150,203 of debt to pay off.
At that rate it will take approximately £190,000 of
assets (book value) to clear the remaining creditors
off the premises. The assets now stand at £341,724,
so on the foregoing reckoning there would be
£151,724 left for the shareholders; and on the values
realised during the past 14 years that lot should be
worth a trifle over £120,000. But this paper won’t
swear that the assets now in hand are worth as much
in the £ of their book values as the assets that have
gone. Recent realisations have certainly not been
up to the average, in spite of the booinsome condi-
tions of the past few years. Meantime, of course,
the shareholders are getting no interest; and the
£120,000, if it ever materialises, isn’t worth
£120,000 if it is only payable an indefinite number
of years hence. Already most of the weary share-
holders are 70 or thereabouts, and the prospect of
waiting an indefinite number of years doesn’t entice
them. Various hints have been given from time to
time that the management would be a bit more
popular if it let some daylight in, especially with
regard to the nature and real value of the remaining
assets; and there is some hone that, during the
coming year, a step, or two will be taken that wav.
There are 46,298 shares (paid to £5) in the con-
cern, and probably some of the people who own them
are still able to remember when the trifles were worth
£8 apiece.
A. H. Chambers has been moved up to
the job of chief inspector of the Union Bank, with
headquarters in Melbourne. The Union is, in some
ways, the most English bank in Australia ; it doesn’t
keep even a local director on the Commonwealth
premises. This means large responsibilities for the
inspectors and other senior officers; and the results
are the best proof that they have done their work
astonishingly well. Mr. Chambers’s beat has lately
covered N. S. Wales and Queensland, with head-
quarters in Sydney.
A heartening circular has been issued by
Australian Marine Fibres, Ltd. —the concern which
is dredging a partially-decayed seaweed from the
bed of Spencer’s Gulf (S.A.), and hopes to sell it
at great profit to foreign spinners. The plant, it is
said, is now in operation, sample bales of fibre have
been distributed, and a first consignment of 20
bales has been sent to London for auction. Opti-
mistic letters are published—the shareholders have
had nothing else to live on so far. Now comes the
test —what will the market really pay for the stuff?
The official talk of offers hitherto made appears to
have been all moonshine.
* * * *
Tingha Consolidated consists of a num-
ber of Stannifer and Copeton (N.S.W.) claims that
were tied up into a bundle and put under Mel-
bourne management six years ago. It has never
done much good for itself or anybody else; in fact,
the claims would probably have got along better as
they were. Now, however, the co. has got hold of
a new broom, and this general manager, Jas. Symes,
promises to atone for the lean years by a series of
fat ones. The directors bow down humbly and
worship the new god, and incidentally inform the
shareholders that they are not fit to hold their job a
day longer. For instance: “Another very important
matter initiated by the general manager is that of
providing adequate water for the plants. For the
first time in our history this problem has been fairly
faced, and is being solved.” Directors who, after
six years, admit that dreadful omission ought to be
too much ashamed of themselves to face the share-
holders without offering their resignations. Under
the new control they don’t think it too much to
expect a shilling div. on the 200,000 shares this
current year. Neither does The Bulletin ; only,
beforp making any prophecies, it would prefer to
see whether the new broom can sweep as well as talk.
» * » *
Prosuects in the Eleanora mine. Hillgrove
(N.S.W.), are on the improve, and if the N.E. end
of No. 8 level continues to show stone assaying over
loz. per ton for a width of 34in., the mine will be
anything but the rank duffer it was thought to be
when the New Hillgrove 00. gave it best. Still, the
Eleanora has been capricious in the past, and the
recovery of the gold has been difficult because of the
large quantity of base mineral in the stone. The
management, by the way, appears to have blind faith
in assays, for no trial crushings are reported from
development work.
* * * *
The old Sunny Corner (N.S.W.) is under
option to one of the Anglo-Australian lead-zinc treat-
ing cos., and, judging by other nibbles, business is
almost certain to follow.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Prop, is getting its
organisation ready for the new iron and steel busi-
ness at Newcastle. Gen.-manager Delprat will pro-
bably for the future have his headquarters in Mel-
bourne, as the place most convenient to the mine at


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & O Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th September, 1912 .. ..£9,672,366 8 0
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
CHARGES LOW. ABSOLUTE SECURITY.
EXPERT MANAGEMENT.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from 5 per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney;
McCLEWACO., Adelaide; MALLOCH BROS., Perth
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing’ the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Blei chert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction, should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all. smithing work high-class iron can be morj
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short whilb, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [I
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is till the watchword of the directors,
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
If vour Pipe has to be carried a long distance
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the pipe to use. Its
lightness makes it easy to handle at all points,
freight charges are light, and transport offers no
difficulties. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, N.S.W. ; and Footscray. Vic.*
* * * *
One of the many difficulties to be faced in mining
is the inrush of water when sinking, and unless you
have thoroughly reliable pumps you may as well shut
down. Haes and Eggers, Ltd., of 163 Clarence
Street, Sydney, have exactly what you want. Write
for catalogues. See page 3.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 386 George Street,
Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Bassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* [2
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Cot.lison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayeks, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbeuberu and Co.. 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
- * *
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.) , Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information tree.*
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Broken Hill, the lead and zinc works at Pirie, and
the ironworks at Newcastle. John Bristowe, the
mine accountant, will most likely be the financial
man at the new works. McMeekan, manager of the
co/s coke works at Bellambi, will be on hand during
the construction of the new plant.
* * * *
The mines at Bodangora (N.S.W.) are
wearing a careworn expression. The battery is run-
ning two shifts, with 15 head dropping. The Nos.
3 4 and 5 levels are apparently worked out, and
the ore in sight at the No. 6 (lowest) level will
last only a few weeks. So wild is the effort to keep
the mill running that the truckers are developing a
Donaldson stride. Simon Jenkin, who has put up
a big fight against overwhelming odds, begged to
be supplied with compressors and drills to get down
and open up levels, and keep development ahead.
The directors blew cold and supplied a boiler and a
splendid cement foundation, but nary a drill. In
disgust Jenkin threw in the sponge, and leaves this
month. Macintyre (erstwhile commander of the
same show when Peter Mannell owned it) picks up
the reins again. # *
Vegetable Creek, Emmaville (N.S.W.),
seems unable to bear the burden of the 25 p.c. royalty
which it carries. Although now and again affairs
look hopeful, a policy of vigorous development is
impossible, mainly because of the drain of this 2 o
p.c. of the proceeds. Chandler’s shaft has proved a
big disappointment, but the look of things at the
Rock shaft has improved somewhat. The lead should
be intersected at Allen’s shaft shortly after Christ-
mas, at a point where good tin was located by pre-
liminary prospecting. Altogether, the length of lead
opened "has been comparatively very small, though the
average results over the whole are fair; but until
more working faces are opened, so that the effect of
the blank areas can be counteracted, it seems that
the co. will have merely a hand-to-mouth existence,
with possibly an occasional threepenny call thrown
in to keep the pot boiling.
A small co., the Y Water Extended, has
been formed to prospect the deeper portion of the
Graveyard Deep Lead, Emmaville (N.S.W.). The
only cash payment is £lOO to the vendors. From
its situation at the lower end of the lead on which
the Y Water Tin Co. is working so successfully, and
from local geological indications, this property should
justify the good opinion held of it by those inter-
ested. Some work was done on the area (320 acres)
in the early da.ys of the field ; but although results
were encouraging, local lack of capital . prevented
further development. The present co. intends to
thoroughly prospect the area, and then, if results
warrant it, float into a larger co.
Pulganbar Quicksilver Co. (N.S.W.) re-
ports that it is making fair progress with the erec-
tion of a reducing plant, of which, by the way, no
description has yet been given, in California the
metallurgy of quicksilver has been greatly improved
in recent years, and the use of shaft furnaces
equipped with condensing chambers is now pretty
well universal, the old type of distilling plant being
used only for experimental work and for special
kinds of'ore. At the Pulganbar two levels at 70ft.
and 140 ft. have proved cinnabar, copper sulphides
and fahl ore; but the reports are destitute of
assays. The one thing the manager is quite confi-
dent about is the supply of ore, though what really
matters is the supply of metal in the ore.
Westralia’s mineral production to October
31: Gold, £109,384,240; copper, £1,067,660; tin,
£1,028,830; coal, £1,035,173; lead, £408,555;
silver, £277,688; sundry, £88,827.
Ten still-alive gold mines in Westralia
have produced between them £48,804,063. Of this
wealth Golden Horseshoe has turned out £8,381,153,
Great Boulder £8,196,867, Ivanhoe £7,020,255,
Boulder Perseverance £5,327,143, Associated
£3,274,927, Kalgurli £3,115,269, Great Fingall
£4,469,001, Sons of Gwalia £3,371,139, Lake View
Consols (now amalgamated with Hannans Star)
£4,286,605 and South Kalgurli £1,361,704.
* * * *
With its usual assurance, Murchison
Associated reports for the 13 months ended June that
the rich ore discovered on the surface of its hitherto
unprofitable Westralian property did not hold down.
As a result of recent work in other parts of the
show, a “considerable quantity” of payable stuff has
been exposed, and instructions have been given to
treat it and some old tailings on hand without dela'c
The heavy loss sustained at Bullfinch is deplored,
but the directors blame the other fellow. In this
case much of the blame is fastened on to the ex-
Premier of Westralia, Frank Wilson, because in a
burst of optimism at the opening of Parliament, he
said that the field bade fair to eclipse anything dis-
covered in the State. Surely, however, the Board, of
the Murchison Ass. did not part up before sending
an expert along to look into things. The co. now
depends mostly on rubber plantations in Ceylon.
These assets are declared to be sound, and available
funds are said to be sufficient to take the co. to the
dividend stage without-falling by-the way. *
Field-geologist Blatchford, who is cred-
ited in the West with knowing what he is talking
about, expresses his oninion of the Wodgina tin field
to this effect: (1) Numerous tin-bearing lodes of
commercial value exist in and about the field; (2)
with one exception, none of these lodes has been
proved deeper than 25ft. ; (3) the field has every
appearance of permanency ; (4) the one mine which
has been worked on a large scale has produced
£26,000 worth of tin; (5) as there is no encourage-
ment offered to prospect for low-grade ore, only
pockets of stone rich enough to treat by hand on the
spot are being sought after; (6) high transport
charges, absence of crushing facilities and scarcity
of water are hindering the development of the field.
He recommends the establishment of State-owned
and State-aided concentrating and crushing plants.
Filtration troubles and a temporary
shortage of water have for the time being upset
Associated Northern at Ora Banda (W.A.). No diffi-
culty is anticipated in righting things, though for
the present the tonnage will be a bit less than the
estimated capacity of the plant—which, by the way,
is 9000, and not 12,000 tons, as previously stated.
* * * *
Greenfinch (W.A.) struggles on. As a
result of the last half-year’s work the profit and loss
account was reduced by £1146. Still, all that
the co. owed on September 30 was £538,
against which there were cash assets totalling
£1251, machinery and stores £3155 (which must
be taken for what it is worth), and trifles (lease
option, etc.) £BOO. The co.’s purchase of the
optioned lease has been hung up owing to disputed
ownership, which the Westralian Courts are now about
to decide. Among other belongings which the co.
claims are 2300 tons of sands, of an estimated re-
coverable value of £l6OO, and 400 tons of sta
sulphide ore, worth about £3 per ton. Of oxidised
ore, about 400 tons are estimated to remain above
the 100 ft. level, and 1500 tons are expected to be
won above the No. 2 level. The reef is small and
the ground hard in the bottom, but so far values
have proved payable. The outlook, however, is not
yet such as to make the shares worth much, it worth
buying at all.
Bullrush (W.A.) has paid over the pur-
chase money for the Royal Standard at Yum, and
the task of proving the show to be as good as repre-
sented to shareholders has begun. In July last the
management “assumed” the monthly profit when
treatment was in full swing at £2200 per month,
or £26,400 per year—a profit which if capitalised
over a period of five years at 4 per cent, would
make a value equal to £105,600, or Is. 6d. per
share. Returns, however, haven’t so far come
within cooee of this. As regards the Kyarra, which
at the same time was estimated to add another 4s.
on to the potential value of Bullrushes, a report
has just come to hand that the mill is nearing
completion, and that crushing will start next month.
* * * *
During October, Mount Morgan secured
an average furnace extraction of 2.9 p.c. copper and
7.7Bdwt. gold from 29,316 tons ore. The 853 tons
of copper recovered at £6O is worth £51,180, and
the 11,4220 z. of gold, at 84s. per oz., is worth
£47,972; total, £99,152, or £3 7s. 7d. per ton of
ore. It is the best extraction of gold this year, and
suggests that the management is using more barren
ironstone, brought from near Kabra, in order to smelt
more silicious ore. Another move has been made to
obtain a supply of anthracite coal (80 p.c. carbon)
by taking an option over the Mammoth colliery. Pro-
duction at the big mine has been steadily improving
under the new conditions, and the output for five
months of the current half-year totals 4248 tons of
copper, containing 48,6650 z. gold. The recent average
return has been 2.9 p.c. copper, and if that average
is maintained it will require as much as 343,000 tons
of ore to produce 10,000 tons of copper. Luckily,
according to the latest estimate, there are 3,526,000
tons in reserve ; but the value of such a bulky propo-
sition is largely a guess. Also, with satisfactory
smelting practice, reserves are increased from 20
p.c. to 30 p.c. by the use of pvritic fluxes; and
counting these, the total is 4,231,200 tons.
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, was
£1728 to' the good for October. Four months have
given a profit of £4323 on working account. Un-
fortunately the co. was making losses before July,
so some time must elapse before the cumbersome
quarter-million concern recovers its leeway. For nine
months it crushed 26,200 tons for £48,008, which
is the largest quantity of stone from one mine on the
field. The worst feature is that the deepest, levels
have become lightly mineralised, and the sinking of
the shaft below No. 20 doesn’t hold out much pro-
mise, for the stone is white and poor.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, has
crushed 2618 tons of stone this year for £17,341, an
average of £6 12s. sd. per ton. Practically all the
profit, together with the proceeds of 25,000 new
shares at 75., has gone to purchase and erect the
new haulage plant and develop the mine. The half-
year closed with a small overdraft, and this, added
to the decline in the grade of stone, caused the
slump in shares. The last crushing of 558 tons re-
turned £6 os. 2d. per ton.
* * * *
Charters Towers has reason to remember
the Black Jack boom in the ’Bo’s. The records
show that 10,951 tons of stone were crushed for
19,2260 z. But the pay shoot was lost, and the
Peter and Jack has been trying for three years to
pick it up. The co. has been following a leader
branching off into the hanging wall, and latterly
has got from £4 to £5 per ton from it, though it
is still small. So far operations are in the develop-
ment stage, but there is quite enough exposed to
build a hope upon. The claim is six miles from the
Towers, and the optimists are already regarding it
as almost another Stockholm.
Mount Elliott (Q.) produced 607 tons
copper in October, following 630 tons in September,
680 tons in August and 718 tons in July. The
total for a run of four months has been 2640 tons
copper, 46700 z. gold, 49220 z. silver, from 22,511
tons of ore. The average extraction works out at
11.71 p.c. copper, 4.l4dwt. gold and 4.7dwt. silver.
Having rather a large number of prospecting ven-
tures in hand, it is not surprising that shares con-
tinue high. The market is always inclined to be
in a good humor with a concern paying big divi-
dends. The gamble is periodically refreshed by the
announcement that a new mine has been acquired
or that a strike of rich ore has been made. The
latest is a bore-hole development at the Native Com-
panion. Boring at an angle of 80deg., the drill
penetrated 16ft. of ore from 43ft. to 59ft. —and some
rich assays have been obtained. The value of this
lens of ore will be determined by a crosscut, for
the find isn’t far from the shaft. Previous bores
disclosed nothing of value. The locality is noted
for rich patches.
•** * *
According to official figures the Great
Fitzroy (Q.) is just about paying its way, if
copper realises the estimated value put upon it.
Last month revenue was estimated at £16,853, and
costs amounted to £15,376 —-to which must be
added management exes. During four months the
surplus on working account was £7060, from 650
tons of copper, 36330 z. gold and 11,0200 z. silver.
With copper selling at £BO, and with £2O per ton of
gold and silver in the red metal, conditions are
favorable; but costs swallow all the copper value
and half the precious metals. No wonder the Fitz-
roy is looking for something new. P. Osborne _is
superintending operations at the Laloki mine
(Papua). Assays run over 2 p.c. copper and 2dwt.
gold for a width of 40ft. The stuff is highly
pvritic.
The rich little St. Mungo (Q.) had an
October output of 156 tons, worth 23.2 p.c. of cop-
per. The Charters Towers shareholders are rejoicing
in a new make at the North No. 3 level; it has come
in at right angles to the contact lode. They are
only into it about 4ft., but at that point there is a
face showing 3-Jft. of clean ore. This is north of
any of the co.’s other workings.
* * * *
At Rossville (N.Q.) the tin-scratchers
are installing hydraulic plants, and between times
praying that the approaching rainy season will
hurry. Many of them will do well with plenty
of water, up-to-date appliances, and high prices.
Horton, from down South, has lately been boring
claims on Mount Hartley and Mount Romeo, with a
view to purchase; but so far the plant has not
proved any big-depth proposition, though it has
prodded some splendid surface shows. The best
show so far proved in the district is the Annan
River Co.’s, where one face runs to a depth of over
70ft. and carries good tin all through. The Home
Rule is working three shifts, but the last few
clean-ups have not been brilliant. This claim has
also been feeling the want of moisture, though its
water right is one of the best in the district. How-
ever, the annual thunderstorms have started, so it
should be wet enough presently.
Mine-engineer Horton has been looking out for a
decent tin proposition in the North; but he ap-
pears to have given the job best, believing that
very rarely does the North Queensland tin live
down. It was the Annam River Co. that took his
eye and led him to that district. During its life-
time (about seven years) this eo. has gradually
bought up claims and taken up leases until now it
is looking a pretty big thing. The highest price it
has yet given for a single claim was A6OOO for one
held by four men; and it looks like a good bar-
gain. Since the start, the co. has spent over
£16,000 cutting water races, etc. One race alone
cost over £lO,OOO, and covers a distance of seven
miles, part of it over fearfully rough mountain
gorges. Over 80,000 feet of cedar and kauri were
used up in this little job alone.
The once-famous Lode Hill has fallen on evil
days, and there is a struggle to maintain even the
present reduced output.
Prince Alfred tin mine (N.Q.) has lately
crushed at Gurrumbah 200 tons of ore for 26 tons
of concentrates worth £3OOO. This means a glit-
tering £l5 per ton of ore. But a lot of the gilt
is oft the gingerbread before the owners get it. lor
one thing, the ore has to be packed to the battery,
and the concentrates then have to be packed six
miles to rail. And, unless this shoot_ is different
from every other in North Queensland, it will prove
to be short. As to depth, it goes down 90ft. for
certain. The present co. gave Seaman, the former
owner, £4OOO in cash and £3OOO in shares for the
show. #
Blair Atliol (Q.) turned out 37,095 tons
of coal last half-year. After writing off deprecia-
tion and making what looks like a very fair expendi-
ture on renewals, a profit of £3937 was shown. As
a good deal of development work is still in progress,
it was, however, possible to pay only one 6d. div.
(£1875). By thus limiting divs., the financial posi-
tion has been kept quite satisfactory. There certainly
was an overdraft of £2444 on Sept. 30, and the co.
owed £2OO besides; but stores and book debts are
put down as worth £4423.
* * * *
The Pompeii (N.Q.), owned by the Irv-
inebank Co., was discovered in 1911, and a glance at
the monthly tin returns of this year show it to be
a consistent milker, often eclipsing the staid old
Vulcan. During September it gave 12 1 tons, worth
£1125 The Vulcan. during the same time treated
518 tons for £969. But what Pomp, will do when
it has been going as long as the Vulcan is quite
another matter.
It has cost £17,000 and 25 weary years
to drive a tunnel into the hills at the back of Bright
(Vic.), to pick up the old Oriental shoot of ore
that put many a bright sovereign into old J. A.
Wallace’s wide pockets. Most of the contributors
were a poor crowd that found halfpenny calls big
enough to wrestle with. Some stuck on and others
came in as the tired dropped out or as children were
born At last, when they had got half-way through
the mountain, the Mines Department had to deter-
mine whether the tunnel had dodged the shoot. A
fresh scheme of work was suggested, and driving has
gone on of late on a body of buck quartz picked up
in a crosscut to the south. Now a hymn of praise
is being sung because an enrichment is being proved
which dollies up to 12cwt. Bright patters out
that the 1500 ft. overhead is all virgin country, but
what is wanted is more driving and more capital to
bump up rises to see if the virgin ground carries the
precious metal. # #
Garden Gully United is the chap with the
big record at Bendigo. Like Johnson’s Reef, it struck
at last a bad attack of chills, and so it has been
standing neglected in the corner. During the latter
period it has been poking about m the hope of get-
ting better things at 1500 ft. in its main shaft, and
it has also found time to explore a formation,
which for some reason had dodged previous atten-
tion. Perhaps the richness of the big saddle over-
head was responsible for that neglect. Still, it is
rather choice to hear that a mere 2 ft. make of
stone, representing the new find, has impressed the
investors.” A good bit of prospecting will have to
be done between the mam and the south shafts to
see if this little stranger lives at that point. The
mine staff is, however, so certain of its presence that
thev count on a nice little run of divs. to swell the
mine’s big total. To leaven things up still more,
connection is being made with the Pandora workings
the idea being to chase after some allegedly good stuff
left by a tribute party. It isn t often that the Ben-
digonian, when on tribute, lets profits remain in the
face so it would be unwise to count on settling bets
from anything won from this part of the mine until
a new block has been opened up.
* * *
A piece of paper flutters out from the
Mount Jasper office. The co. holds a block of copper-
bearing country near the Hazelwood River (Tas.), as
well as the old Mount Stewart mine. Frank Powell
visited the claim and cold-watered the shows, especi-
ally turning the tap on to the new Jasper find.
S nee Powell’s inspection, the work done on the new
Jasper outcrop is said by the directors to indicate
that the best of mining experts can t see any further
into rock than any other man. Shafts, they say, have
given good copper prospects. Hence the circular and
hence the news that the co. is, in the near future
to despatch regular parcels of copper ore from the
lode. Unfortunately, the Board s diplomatic note
doesn’t mention the quantities to be shipped monthly.
With North Lyell shut up and Mount Balfour as
misty as the 'morning sun, something is certainly
needed to fill up the gaps in the copper record of
the State.
*** . .
Mount Lveil’s record is a brilliant one, for
shareholders have been paid £2,766,000 from prac-
tically two mines, whose total production has be®
120,000 tons of copper. The old co produced 48,000
tons copper, 4,120,0000 z. silver and 155,0000 z gold.
Taking gold at £4 and silver at 2s , the value m
these metals is £1,032,000. No wonder the old con-
cern gave big dividends, for its copper contained over
£2l worth of gold and silver per ton. In recent
years the copper grade has fallen, and to make mat-
ters worse the copper only contains about £l3 wortn
of precious metals. Still, for a period costs were
very low—almost the lowest in the world. And, in
spite of the cloud, the end isn’t here yet, though the
glory has departed. Notwithstanding the North Lyell
fire ’ which it is pretty certain now can only be con-
quered by flooding, two furnaces are smelting.
* * * *
During October the Australian-owned
Tongkah Harbor (Siam) produced 871 tons tin oxide
from 276,800 cubic yards of washdirt. The average
was 0 7061 b. per cubic yard. Tin oxide has been
realising high prices, but the stuff in Siam is sub-
ject to royalty. The washdirt is fully 25 p.c. less
in metal value than the previous half-year’s In that
term 1,778,5601 b. of oxide were got from 1,647,634
cubic yards. There may be other areas that will
average lib. per yard, but the rapid decline m the
value” of the dirt isn’t very comforting. When the
No 6 dredge is in commission, the total capacity
will be 4,000,000 cubic yards a year. The harbor
bottom may be able to supply that output and main-
tain a fib. grade; but even to this day there is no
certainty about the extent and value of the wash.
The success of the Tongkah has been re-
sponsible for many things, including the Hindu
Choung Co. This is a Burmese tin-dredging con-
cern which Melbourne people were induced to buy
early last year. The price was £65,000 in shares
and £2OOO in cash; and another £lOOO is to come
out of profits. The co. is in 108,090 shares, the
vendors’ lot fully paid, the others paid to 13s. As
usual there was much delay in getting a move on,
and the co. still has a swag of forfeited shares on
hand, the owners having got tired even before the
dredge made a start. The area is un-get-at-able; it is
30-odd miles from port, over a dreadful track, and
much of the plant had to be dragged over the
mountains by elephants. The co. has an area of
5 sq. miles under prospecting license; but s .° fal j
the ground has been worth only about one-third of
lib. per cubic yard, and that hasn’t paid working
exes, plus incidentals. The latter may ease off, and
the manager says he thinks the value will improve;
so there may be something to the good presently.
On present appearances, however, an absurd price
was paid for the property.
* * * *
Sanpliiretown (Q.) still occasionally does
something. The other day, James Peterson, a sap-
phire miner at the New Hush, got 210 oz. of sap-
phires and corundums from five loads of wash-dirt.
Nowadays the low-grade stone is also finding a
market, and is allegedly used for mechanical pur-
poses. Previously, this kind of gem was mainly un-
employed, and rarely found a new owner except
when the raw tourist poked into the field.
* * * *
J.H.R.: Can’t say; don’t know


Under
Royal
Varrant
CHAMPAGNE
To H.M.
Georg,;: V
CHAMPAGNE
OtorlcsHcidsie#
Heims
World
hg
Renowned
STUHR
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all Higrh-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
BUCHANAN’S
Black <& White
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 11, 1912.
My Dear Arini.—
A Sydney friend who pranced through
the recent frenzy of Horse week in Mel-
bourne, falls over all the best-natured ad-
jectives in her efforts to describe the Den-
mans’ Red Ball. About -uiOO souls and
bodies spent an hour or more creeping at
a snail’s pace through the gates of Govern-
ment House in car or humble hack-chariot.
Sydney women held their own in the fierce
competition of the frocks, ivrrs. Tony Hor-
dern, Mrs. Alf Turnbull, Mrs. Leonard
Dangar and Mrs. Harry Levy were in their
best. Mrs. Donald Macintyre’s diamond
crown and necklet were only second to the
blaze of diamonds worn by Lady Denman.
The Grey-Egerton lady was a good third
with her brow encased in a 10,000 candle-
power diamond illumination.
Sydney’s Gaud Mayor Clarke shook a
blithesome foot at the Red Ball, having
ventured forth with no municipal uphol-
stery to wear him down, as he did at the
Denmans’ last Rose Ball in this town.
Concerning the froth of rumor that bub-
bled round Lady Denman’s alleged edict
against the osprey, one trembling guest
cowered in the cloak room, afraid
to show her head because it had
an egret for its main theme. She
was severely warned by the usual know-
all acquaintance that ospreys . were for-
bidden fowl in the presence of her Ex.
A Sydney friend who observed the tragedy
that followed says that Samson losing his
locks to the shears of Delilah was a mere
circumstance to the execution of the osprey
tail with a borrowed pair of scissors. After
the sacrifice had left the lady with about a
foot less coiffure and a half-mourning expres-
sion, an attendant dashed forward to ex-
plain that the whole story of the osprey
edict was a plain, unvarnished lie, though
the G.-Generaless doesn’t wear the fluff
herself.
The sodden weather that chased the Cup
gown to a close hiding place under water-
proof armor, drove one dressy Sydney dame
to a state of mild dress-tremens before the
Denmans’ garden party. She registered a
solemn oath that come rain, hail or mud, she
would garden-party in fine-weather drapery.
When the early-mormng tea-cup jingled at
the lady’s door, she bounded to the window
and discovered that a Reckitt’s blue sky had
arrived overhead. In the sudden outpour-
ing of a grateful heart, she presented the
handmaiden with a tip so large that even
that experienced damsel is suspected of
having bitten it in private to test its worth.
Invitations have been posted for a farewell
hop in the vice-regal nest at Rose Bay. The
date is early next week—“or thereabouts,”
as Jessie Lonnen says. As the Chelmsford
luggage is not ready for the hold of an out-
going steamer by a long way, the State
Governor and his household are presumably
on the wing for their summer shelter at
Sutton Forest. When they make a per-
manent descent, the illuminated address and
the local cleric with a sob in his throat,
will be waiting on the wharf, or in some
adjacent barn.
How translucent the past often seems by
the light of the present! AVasn’t it a year
or 15 months ago that the Stricklands were
packed up for a determined departure to
London. The good-bye bun had been eaten
to its last crumb in W.A.—and then the bag-
gage was unstrapped again. It looks as if
the key lies in the surmise that Governor
Lhelmsford may have given notice as far
back as the middle of 1911, and that the
Stricklands got enough of a hint to take
their household gods out of brown paper and
remain on the premises.
Governors are moving round Australasia
like chess pawns. The knight Strickland
soon moves east, and when the time comes,
feir Harry Barron will sit in the vice-
regal chair at Perth. Barron seems to be
only just working into the charmed circle
ot professional Governors. He hadn’t even
rUled ,.i? ve ™ a tropic monsoon till he took
over the Tasmanian billet'. He is a gunner
by early training, and, oddly enough, he
mows Haifa (where he commanded the
R.A. from 1900 to 1909) as well as does
his predecessor at Perth. Since 1909 he
has been followed by the National Anthem
in the Apple Island.
Re the elderly rumor that something may
soon chsiocate the able Coghlan from his
rs.b.VV. Agent-Generalship in London, re-
™l d Pour out large jars full of
wrath. The Coghlan pair are said to run in
vneir official harness without a visible flaw.
hey are swift to give both hands to plain
h?™n Ti tMs s L de ‘ Mrs - Coghlan does
that t sha , re of . the work with a tact
s guashes the criticism even of her own
mf’i statistician Coghlan hasn’t paused in
ms labors to acquire his extra coat of society
witp l ?’ k Ut ke Pt on cramming himself
winch he scatters like explosive
honibs when irresponsible globe-trotters or
continent all Te\ lui - rl pel l ets of mnd at this
ner<s S' • If - h v V s , P llshed off his present
fammnio f IJ L hable to be thick witH loud
know frolr | 1 t , hos 1 e People in London who
know how well he has done his work
The white-cotton gloves of the Law, in all
its deep-blue majesty, are likely to clutch
the runaway husband with a firmer grip, if
the inter-State Maintenance Orders Bill be-
comes legal machinery in N.S.W. Attorney-
General Holman has planked this measure
down in the electric atmosphere of the As-
sembly. If a husband throws domestic
bricks at his wife, or gives her a black eye
in haste, he will have to pay for it with
steady maintenance, if the damages are laid
before a sympathetic court. With a reason-
able cause of complaint, any woman who
finds matrimony full of lurid language and
male fist, can apply for the custody of her
youngsters (under the age of 11) and get
a judicial separation with a satisfactory
crust.
Her Majesty’s Theatre has had its face
washed and garnished with fresh paint and
extras. If it is white—as in the dress-
ing-room, where you put the last dab of
powder on your nose —it is merely paint,
and smells as fresh as Tom Sawyer’s fence.
But where it is gold, it is gold leaf, and looks
like escaped bullion. Buff, brown, ivory and
gold, with white as a relief, give the theatre
a new and dashing appearance, and make it
look a satisfactory home for grand opera.
The seats are peacock-blue, and soft as the
nest of that showy fowl. The curtain,
which ought to have repeated the cheerful
blue of the seats, has digressed into pale-
brown plush, a color that never seems to go
with plush. But. in spite of that, the whole
place is so rejuvenated that it looks exactly
a fortnight old.
William Mcßae, who comes from North
Queensland to step into the shoes recently
worn by Denison Miller in the Bank of N. S.
Wales, is said to be a Personality of versa-
tile attainments. He’s a bachelor on the
sunny side of 50 —a good judge of a horse,
who owns a persuasive tongue, independent
means, a. profound knowledge of Shakspeare,
and a Bismarck chin. For four years past
he has been the big bank’s inspector in the
sun-kissed North; before that he was in
charge of the Fiji end of the same bank’s
affairs, and sat in the Legislative Council
of the tropic isle in his off time. I haven’t
heard whether he plays cricket better than
Trumper, or wishes to challenge Hop to a
tournament of bowls. These details may
drift in later on.
Talking of bank changes, Melbourne is to
get our Union Bank Chambers—not the big,
bright, freestone premises that overlook the
ancient and dingy S. M. Herald office, but
the head of the business in N. S. Wales, and
his wife. Mr. Chambers becomes the bank’s
chief inspector. He, too, gained much of his
bank experience in Queensland. His wife
was a Miss Ferguson, a daughter of John,
who was a Senator in Australia’s first Par-
liament. Also, more to the point, perhaps, so
far as his family’s comfort goes, the Hon.
John was in the original Mount Morgan syn-
dicate. I don’t think Mr. Chambers is
guilty of anything much except hard work
and a sunny disposition.
Squatter George Yivers, of Kings Plains
station (N.S.W.), hurried back from Europe
the other day. His business only holds him
here a few weeks, and includes a look at his
1!)12 wool clip. Later, he rushes off to Cairo,
where the pretty Mrs. George lingers by the
ancient Nile, in new Paquin frocks.
Miss Maud Watson, of this town, is stay-
ing with the Vivers lady till her tall wool-
pack steams back to her side.
Alfred Marks, a son of the late John
Marks, M.L.C., recently arrived here, after
an absence of many years from his native
State. His permanent roof is in England.
An only chick, a tall, slim girl of 16, is fin-
ishing her flapper days in a Swiss academy.
She is another Australian-born damsel who
threatens to be a beauty, and she is likely to
have her first grown-up waltz in Sydney.
Mrs. Hugh Ward, recently back from a
visit to U.S., hurried off to her native town,
Pittsburg, to be present at her father’s
birthday party. The blithe veteran cheer-
fully acknowledged 80 summers, but looked
up his birth certificate to make sure. He
found he was four years older than he meant
to be, but remained as young as he felt,
which was somewhere in the mellow sixties.
Mrs. Ward had a look-in at the leading
musical centres in U.S., and reports their
steady climb to a higher ledge. In the
teaching hives the best masters are snatched
from Europe’s chief fountains of harmony,
to rap the knuckles of Miss ’Murka if she
doesn’t smite the right notes first time of
guessing.
Prof. Macmillan Brown, of Maoriland,
recently sprang ashore here, after a
trip through the East —-which is north. He is
suave and dapper, and there is no trace of
the schoolmaster about his holiday remarks.
On the voyage from Java the learned
Brown occasionally dipped into the origin
of “classy” names that were getting their
sea-legs on board, and he generally effer-
vesced with joyous anecdotes. His hobby
is Polynesia and its coffee-colored races.
Fred Leist, Tom Roberts, Fullwood and
Arthur Streeton are included in the list of
oversea Australians who exhibit at the So-
ciety of Artists’ Show this year. Nov. 20
is the opening day.
Dorothea Baird, having wisely decided to
give up the stage, recently spoke about the
profession to the National Union of Women
Workers at Oxford. She hit one rather
elderly nail on the head by referring to the
stage as the only occupation that gives
women an equal opportunity with men. A
novel sells for the stuff that is in it; and the
fact that some of the financial plums of
recent literary competitions in London fell
into the feminine lap has missed the eye of
the H. B. Irving lady. Also, the woman
doctor is no longer penalised bv sex. At
least, half a dozen other occupations, once
regarded as a male monopoly, now lift up
the latch to the woman who. knocks long
and loud enough. But, after pecking thusfar
at Dorothea’s plumage, one gladly hands
her a posy for a sensible postscript about
Australia. “There is plenty of occupation
there; but teachers, typists and clerks are
not wanted so much as women who are well-
trained in domestic science.”-
Mrs. Claud McKay, who used to be Doro-
thy Sidney on the stage, is bubbling over
with impressions of life behind the scenes in
London. She recently returned to this town
after an IS months’ trip abroad. Her obser-
vations are worth noting, as the Sidney
family have been mumming since the frivo-
lous days of Charles 11. and his curly-
wigged Court. Mrs. McKay saw a large
gulf between the work of the actors of live
years ago and the affectations they cultivate
to-day. Mostly she blames the influence of
the dramatic schools and the “society”
actor or actress, an elegant clothes-peg
much seen in West End theatres.
“Australia is too young and fresh to
stand the style of players who now mono-
polise the cast of J. M. Barrie’s plays, for
instance. But the jaded West Ender sees some-
thin2', almost new in this pose of artificial
simplicity in its elderly stage favorites. A
rehearsal,” says Mrs. McKay, “of a Barrie
play is as full of this odd pose, which pre-
tends to be very young, as the public per-
formances. Between their cues the stars
lie about, or sit on the ground, as young-
sters might. The talk is all of ‘feeling’ and
‘atmosphere,’ and no one is surprised to see
an old-young actor strike his forehead with
one hand, and rush to the other side of the
stage to finish his lines. ‘I couldn’t feel it
over there! I must get into the atmosphere
further down the stage,’ is the usual ex-
planation.” The desire to feel a handy
weapon attacks the actor who is not of the
society-pet order so fiercely that he has to
bind himself over to keep the peace.
Mrs. Pitt, a_ Victorian writer of verse, is
paying a hurried visit to this town. Her
metre is full of sympathy for the man with
the hoe, and the woman who controls the
weekly wash, minds the baby, cooks the
food and darns the family socks at, or about,
the same time.
Nella Webb, now appearing with loud
applause at the Tivoli, will have given a
tea-party at the Australia before this reaches
you. The hostess requested “the pleasure
of your presence” on notepaper of unusual
decorative glare with a gold beast clawing
the air on a field of red sealing-wax.
Frances Hodgkins, a Maoriland girl who
has made her name easily recognisable in art
circles of France and Britain, dropped into
Australia from London a few days ago with
some samples. Miss Hodgkins gets the ar-
tistic sense from her father, who has left
proofs of his ability on the walls of both
Melbourne and Sydney Galleries. For the
past seven years she has been painting in
Paris, and has exhibited regularly at the
Salon and Royal Academy. About the end
of this month or the beginning of December
Melbourne folk will be given an opportunity
to judge the lady’s work for themselves.
In “The Quaker Girl” Grace Palotta
(Madame Blum) experiments with the
panier skirt in a silk garment shot with the
bloom of a purple plum. It is as near per-
fection as this baggy drape can get. Palotta
wears her clothes with an air (or a some-
thing) that the average woman can’t grow
in her wardrobe. Still. I noticeu that even
the Viennese actress came nearer to a
waddle in this gown than one believed pos-
sible to her. A slit of inserted lace at one
side of the skirt gave the shot
garment a tendency to sag in the front
breadth. This crime is common to the
hurried skirt of the mere toiler, but is
mostly foreign to the Palotta drapery. The
lady came into her own in the ball scene,
with a foot or so of black and white osprey
on her head, and a fairy film of white and
black gown into which, I presume, she had
been carefully poured by her dresser.
The Women’s Pioneer Club in Sydney was
founded by Miss Christine Spark with much
hard labor and a generous output of per-
sonal cash. So the club, which is nominally
founded on ancestral bones and other his-
toric dust, rose up last week to mark its
sense of hon. sec. Christine’s breathless
efforts to serve up a sound financial state-
ment. A bag with a snug lining of sove-
reigns, the whole surrounded by a glorified
tea-fight, was dedicated to the lady’s resolve
to hand over the hon. sec.’s quill. The Hope
Johnston Pioneer Club, which slams the
door on anyone who can’t swear to at least
one authentic early-Australian skeleton in
his family locker, was born after the lady
Pioneers were in full bloom. Hence the
female descendants of successful politicians,
squatters and other early birds who caught
the primeval worm in this State vrit their
teeth when they tack the prefix “women”
before their club-name.
The Overseas Club, of which Dr. Arthur
is president, met on Saturday evening to
discuss the question of finding a permanent
roof. Also, it looked into the inside of its
cashbox. This club consists of about 1800
members, so that it moves with more legs
than any centipede mentioned this side of the
Flood. Some of its members haven’t moved
so rapidly in the matter of paying up their
subscriptions, however. One daring spirit
suggested that Speaker Willis should be
resorted to as a possible president, if finances
and other nuisances didn’t improve. Amidst
a whirl of dissent, a still, calm voice (like
the voice of Conscience before it whoops
over the new hat you couldn’t afford)
pierced the argument with. a persistent:
“But you don’t know the kind of man he
really is! Willis is all right!’'
The recent scoop of the Sydney railway-
station thief, who got away with a Mosman
dame’s Cup luggage, ought to straighten up
a few loose methods in our cloak-room man-
agement. This baggage was sent in to al-
leged safe keeping in the morning. At three
o’clock in the afternoon it was signed for
by an audacious gent., who affixed his
signature to the necessary scroll as Dr.
Blank—the lady’s husband. Exit one of
the most extensive Cup wardrobes of the
week, with valuable peltry,_ for Melbourne’s
frequent November chill included in the
cargo. To atone for the heart-ach'" he
caused, the thief, if ever he should be caught,
ought to be condemned to wear four dif-
ferent race frocks every day for a week, each
frock to be hooked (by himself) up the back
with 90 hooks and several dozen dress clips.
A postcard of Ella Caspers, the Goul-
burn contralto, came to hand the other day.
It shows a plump profile, and is a cheery
revised edition of the delicate-looking Ella
who left these parts.
Manly is plotting the details of its Janu-
ary water-carnival, which is to spread over
a week from the 11th of that summery
month. Alderman R. B. Paterson is already
in the throes of profound thought over the
neck-to-knee surf events, the Venetian de-
corations, and the hire of every Manlv chair
that leans back on firm legs. Last year’s
splash only occupied most of one day, and
a slice of the subsequent starlight. Among
other attractions this year, the pride of the
marine village, the champion amateur band,
which knocked the wind out of all competi-
tors in a recent contest, will chase the fly-
ing hours with its brass instruments.
“Milestones,” the new play by Knoblanch
and Arnold Bennett, is going to give our
girls a treat in December, by bringing back
to Sydney the manly form and unrivalled
calves of Julius Knight. Its clothes will
drift from the flounces of the ’6o’s to the
present skimpy swathe of ninon. The play
is ingenious, yet easy to handle, from the
stage-carpenter’s point of view. Everything
occurs in one room, in three acts. As the
human Milestones pass through the adven-
tures that career round three generations of
flesh, they modernise in clothes and man-
ners. The room, also, works its way
from the heavy legs of mid-Victorian furni-
ture to the frivolous lounge that supports
the 20th century spine.
Avoca, once the Darling Point home-nest
of the Bowker family, is said to have
changed hands for about £4OOO. In view
of the drought in houses, the new owner
means to build a few in the Avoca grounds.
On Friday next, one end of the new
duplicate cable to Maoriland will be
officially dragged through a Bondi breaker,
in the presence of a large assembly of poli-
ticians and Important persons. The Sil-
vertown, a veteran cable craft, ought to
strike this coast to-day (Monday), after a
good-weather voyage from London via the
Cape. The new cable end is likely to be
met by a full-grown band, for the test
house at Bondi was built on land set apart
for a park, and it grew a bandstand before
a test house was raised there. When the
wire has been well and truly dragged ashore,
the Silvertown will head for Auckland. The
event at Bondi will be christened with
champagne at an official lunch.
The Women’s Handicrafts Show is torn
open this week by the Matthew Henry Ste-
phen lady. Mrs. Murray Prior and Miss
Bundock will hand the welcorfie bun to all
comers on November 14. The Cullen lady
now presides over the cogitations of this
society.
May Allah keep your Cup full of happi-
ness.—Yours,
VANDORIAN.
“G. 8.”: Permit me to arise and smite
Governor-General Denman on his bump of
vandalism. New South Wales waratahs
were used by the ton to deck his dancing
saloon on Cup night. The ordinary destruc-
tion of the bush glory is quite sufficient to
promise its early extinction, and the effects
of a senseless and wide-spread ravage will
be disastrous to next year’s blossoming. In-
deed, flower-trade experts fear that there
will be a paucity of waratah blossoms in
New South Wales for years to come. Action
had to be taken to check the danger to the
indigenous flora brought about by suburban
and country wild-flower shows, and when
vice-regality roots the waratah up in tons
to pleasure snobocracy for an hour or two I
desire to say that the time is ripe to express
disapproval to vice-regality with the most
effective, not to say violent, instrument on
the premises.


NBB
M
m
m
c^i
H
M
m
a igp 5
*
r
M
II
•■■■■;.
1
as
w'V
ft/ /
$3
rV/? I ?.'"'-.:
tiftp y..v
-•}¥•/. /V>3
tif&JS'Vs
m
m
iM
yt '
MB*
•s:
si
5T—
$ <’ : o .s';' S } ? # v I h
t ;•■ !a '■ . i! r \ ! , 4.V :? ift >i lif 5.1 Si 5 iSi !•
j , O f-VE
f
/rf.' ; . M All ■? 'U; ;| II !*; Hi f Mil. cl Il\ \ in UiMi lid
fi.i*' ■«§! iiiMf® ii as tlli-lffj S- Afi l||Hs'Sl|i^
HninTHl f!jAi;ii||Us|||||p
v-4 uAt W i f |! || fUj | j|
i ; > i *5 ? As'i l J i ! f : i ? si ' ' I
i
' • ’. I ■
?■ ■Aft ?
italic
f|!pr
s i. : |; v v
i ? ;
| 2 5
f A
fHI
? I A S
i(
Cobra,” Boot PolisK.
Chunder Log,
Of Akim Foo,
Buys a racehorse —
Something new.
Keep it dark and
Mum’s the word ! ”
“ Melbourne Cup, eh
“ So I’ve heard.”
Chunder thinks he
Can’t be beat,
H ighly bred and
Wondrous fleet.
Those who buy the
“COBRA” stuff
Stand in early
Right enough.
Chunder on the
Training track
Knows the horse
That you should back.
Watch this page and
You will know
How to place a
Pound or so.


NEW STYLES for MEN
at FARMER’S.
fhfg
Summer Tunic Shirts
Farmer’s Tunic Shirts are just what the well-
dressed man requires for Summer. They are
splendidly cut, from the best materials, are
very cool, thoroughly sewn and finished, and
true to size in every particular. The result is
perfect satisfaction and absolute comfort in
wear.
We stock everything for Men’s Wear, all
dependable qualities and sterling values.
Following we quote prices in Fancy Zephyr
Shirts:— p ri£es j 6 6/6 7/6 $/ ,j ejch
Men’s Mercery Section—Pitt Street Entrance.
CARMER’S Pay Carriage on MEN’S APPAREL to
* ANY PART OP AUSTRALIA.
FARMER’S
SYDNEY.
h
DUNLOP
CARDEN HOSE
Lasts for Years and
does not kink or burst
OBTAINABLE ALL BTORBKKEfSRB.
ACCEPT ONLY -DUNLOP- BRANDS.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. All BUtM and KJL
T n - • $
QfM W
vn
DUNLOP
GOLF BALLS
Al m GIVE JATDfACTION/
GOLFISTS say that the
“Dunlop s * plays longer
and better than any other
ball procurable .
Obtainable from all
PROFESSIONALS and
SPORTS DEPOTS at
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE UST.
PUHLOP RUBBER CO. j
Melbourne, Sydney.
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
Wellington, Christchurch
2'6
fgh
4
USE
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
It pays—their strength and quality
ensures a big mileage, and every
satisfaction
Obtainable all Garage#, but
see you pet "DUNLOPS."
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. All States and N.Z.
fgh
DUNLOP
MINING w-
ENGINEERING Goods
Stand alone for
Quality and Price.
EVERY CLASS OF RUBBER GOODS
STOCKED OR MADE TO ORDER.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
m m m
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne. Sydney.
Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane, Wellington, Christchurch^
Obtainable
all
Boot
.stor&3
Specify
"Dunlop_
Brand*
Dunlop Rubber Co.-all States & It?
Ensure
Easy A
Comfortable
WalKing.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 11, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The cat that has been half drowned is
chary of the water. Derby day having
proved a shower-bath, the social cats and
kittens looked at the watery Cup day sky
and decided, with bleak mee-yows, to cut
out the day’s strutting. The real sporting
woman who declines to be the slave of her
frocks went out early in last year’s coat
and skirt, and defied the heavens to do their
worst; but the mere clothes-carrier waited
slyly and hopefully until the time drew
near for the great gallop. The hoped-
for sunburst miraculously arrived, and the
clothes brigade rapidly made ready for the
gorgeous parade which was to enrage the
plainly-garbed females, and drive them into
the darkest corners of the grandstand. Just
after the Hurdle Race, motor after motor
rushed up to the terrace steps and deposited
birds of paradise—and of the other place.
Every butterfly vision was smiling mali-
ciously at her cleverness. But, as soon as
they had preened themselves a little, down
came the rain again, and the enraged strate-
gists had to charge desperately at the
already-packed stands and claw piteously
for shelter. It was a fearful trick for the
weather to play.
State Governor Fuller and his navy-blue
lady arrived early on the scene. Auntie
I’hipps, clad in black and with a saucy
feather in her hat, had all the sporting
Helps around her. At noon, the Denmans
trundled along in state, assisted by bewigged
servitors. Her Ex., wrapped in a wonder-
ful ermine coat, defied the weather with the
unconcern of a Persian kitten safe on a
drawing-room cushion. His Ex. was buried
in an overcoat with a huge astrachan collar.
The Bosanquet twins were in thick creamy
clothing. Miss Ogilvie looked over their
heads with her mischief-making grey eyes,
and showed a hat set at a cute angle. The
Chelmsford lady wore peacock-green velvet
patterns on her crepe-de-chine gown. Mrs.
Godley carried black raiment in a distin-
guished way. The various Helps were all
top-hatted, and shone like city pavements
on a wet evening.
Mayor Clarke, of Sydney, and Deputy
Town Clerk Layton joined the top-hat brigade
at the vice-regal box. Melbourne’s new Mayor
Hennessy was another who was glossy as
regards the hat; but ex-Gaud Davey re-
lapsed into soft headaear. Mrs. Davey, with
blue feathers rampant, gave a lunch party
under the vines. Mrs. Richard Casey, in
blue serge, talked cheerfully of her coming
trip to India. She is to stay with the Car-
michaels. Mrs. Pat Osborne, buried in a
fur coat, met most of her friends between
showers. She is shortly going to England
to visit sister Mrs. Vallange. Mrs. Tony
Hordern veiled a bird of paradise in her
hat, and wore green silk suitings. Mrs.
Peter Mitchell hid a satin suit under the
newest thing in fur capes, but showed a few
inches of black silk ankle. Her Cup frocks
are unwrapped dreams waiting for a suit-
able function and bright weather.
.Mrs. Willie Kelly looked like a neat mag-
pie with broad white marks on her sable
suit. Edwin Geach, of Sydney, enjoyed the
sport in a huge raincoat, then bolted to catch
the Adelaide express. The English tennis
champions paraded the latest cut in London
clothes. J. D. Williams bemoaned the
weather as loudly as any woman; it
prevented him wearing his Cup suit
made in America. I understand it is
a beautiful thing of checks, with swollen
or inflamed shoulders. Miss Williams and
Miss Bell left their race frocks unpacked,
and made two of the wise coat-and-skirt
army. Mrs. Bowes Kelly, with her own
hands, trimmed a wet-day hat in 10 minutes,
and left her elaborate feathered headgear in
its box. She was dressed nattily in blue
from top to toe.
The radiant weather of Steeplechase Day
hatched out joyous myriads of Flemington
butterflies. Every scrap of color that had
been packed away earlier in the week was
taken out and given a last glorious airing.
The rain had fled for good, leaving the
lawns and roses fresh and lovely beneath a
blue sky. Lunch parties were jolly affairs.
The Agar Wynnes, who had a Cider win
later in the day, included Milnes, Hills and
other Sydney people who had been good 1,0
them during the Randwick season. Mrs.
Geoff Syme, in an adorable rose-trimmed
hat, hostessed another gathering. The Grey-
Smiths and the Maddens chattered away over
a game pie; and “Dewar” Theil and his
brother, with their respective wives, urged
Melbourne friends to eat and drink. The
vice-regal box was packed with a choice
assortment of governing folk. (I am drag-
ging them in at the tail-end by way of
change.) Pretty girls hid themselves under
the new Quaker bonnets, which only give
a tantalising glimpse of the nape of the
collarless neck.
The Red Ball, with which the Denmans
celebrated the Cup, was attended by an
astonishingly big crowd. Either there are
more of the Best People in Melbourne this
year, or else the visitors’ list put on a
special train for the occasion. The ballroom
was packed. A quarter of the dancing space
was roped off for the Two-Steppers. It
irresistibly recalled the horse ring at an
agricultural show.
The slender Denman lady was gowned
angelically in clinging white satin. A lace
scarf, golden with age and fragile as a cob-
web, hung loosely round her shoulders, and
the diamond stars in her hair were about
777. The Fuller lady wore the blue of an
Australian summer sky. It was a flimsy
transparency that showed golden iris glit-
tering on the brocade. Miss Ogilvie, the
Sydney beauty-girl, was kept busy refusing
dances and sighing prettily over a filled card.
Bigjohn Forrest managed to crowd himself
into his Court uniform. The struggle is
obviously becoming desperate. Mrs. George
Chirnside looked like a grim fashion-plate
in pinkish purple. A trimly respectful
osprey stood at attention on the mathemati-
cal centre of her head. Daughter Audrey
whirled decorously under mamma’s eye.
Mrs. Stewart McArthur did her leopard
turn again in the lovely skin dress. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme pitted her brilliant com-
plexion against leaf-green chiffon brocade
and wore beautiful lace. Jewels are not
mentioned above a whisper in the G. Syme
household since the burglary, and the lady
wore only a quart of so of diamonds. One
woman looked as if she would be strangled
by her diamond collar before the evening’s
exertion was over. I don’t know if she
weathered the last dance, but she was bear-
ing up when I last saw her before supper.
Admiral Creswell wore an assortment of
decorations on his broad chest, and danced
all the evening. Would that there were
more sailors! Margaret Cooper, with hus-
band Humble-Crofts shadowing her devotedly,
blazed in a dress of many-colored tulles.
Purple and blue and red films hung over
gold satin lent the star a suitable mixed-
limelight effect. Mrs. Captain Waters, in
a zebra-striped dress, bemoaned the absence
of sister Mrs. Waugh, who was seriously
ill in Sydney.
The interior of Farlei.gh House was more
or less hidden behind cartloads of fruit and
flowers for Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn’s dance.
In the handy little corners there were ripe
cherries hanging overhead, and whilst the
man talked sentiment, the girl, as a rule,
munched the pretty means to indigestion.
The black-garbed hostess wore a satisfied
smile, whilst the two buds, Katherine Simp-
son and Hope Osborne, clung close to her,
and formed a white and lemon-colored re-
lief. Esther, the tawny-haired daughter of
the house, was encased in an Oriental dress,
in which green predominated. The Barttelot
dame brought Alicia and Beatrice Bosan-
quet. Mrs. Chauvel, in blue, was under the
care of her gorgeous colonel. Others who
gyrated, or sat and gossiped, were Mrs. Pat
Osborne,, the Hunter Landales, the Ronald
Murrays, the numerous Clarke clan, and a
trainload or so of the best Sydney people.
Thoughtful Mrs. Charles anticipated the
usual breakfast hour and fed the jaded
guests on bacon and eggs before day-dawn.
Polo made a tempestuous start on Wed-
nesday of last week. The Denman lady in-
vited motorists to make a party for the run-
out to Kooyong, and the Government House
drive was lined with a double row of cars
when she glided down to the gate in an open
machine. Trams and other contemptible
traffic stood still while an unbroken mile of
whirring cars sped across the tracks. Cham-
berlain Nevill balanced precariously on the
back of the vice-regal chariot, which also
contained the Barttelot dame. The G.-G.
himself had gone out earlier in the day, ac-
companied by Help Nutting. Quilter and
Barttelot were also on the scene early, and
struggled into weatherbeaten polo duds. The
rain was in close attendance; so frocky
spectators kept to their travelling shelters,
which formed a great circle round the play-
ing area, and looked like a row of opera
boxes. The mud flew merrily from the
ponies’ hoofs, and a camera girl snapped the
G.-G. as he strode to cover spattered from
white cap to boot-tip.
The Denman lady, in a brown rain-coat
and snug white hat, got away early to pre-
pare for the hostessing of a dinner and
dance. She backed her car out of the line,
and tried the nerves of several shovers by
just grazing their timbers. At last, after
ennobling a young oak tree by bumping it
with the back wheels, she whirred off home.
Two vice-regal garden parties rounded off
the lively week. The Fullers, getting in
early with their strawberry spree, drew Dust
and Sudden Rain in the great weather lot-
tery. Women and men rushed pell-mell for
shelter like disturbed rabbits and stampeded
poultry. But, huddle as they might, the
doors were opened only to a favored few.
Now the furious outsiders want to know
why they weren’t sheltered in the scullerv. or
somewhere. A number would have been
quite content to share the kennel with the
vice-regal dog until the storm was over.
The Denmans’ party was blessed bv a re-
spectful Providence with the first dry day of
the season, and the female guests put on
their very best garments and strutted de-
lightedly.
The Sydneysiders and Maorilanders chat-
tered about the. engagement of Miss Vida
Mills and Mr. Jim Burns. It is a maritime
contract, in a manner of speaking. She is
the. daughter of Mr. David Mills, of the
Union Steamship Co., and his father is
Colonel Burns, of Burns, Philp and Co.
He is in the ancestral business, and with
diligence, punctuality, despatch, the flight
of years and a few other things, should
succeed to the position now held by his
male parent.
The Australian Club Ball, on Friday
night, helped to bring the bewildering week
to a brilliant finish. The big marble stair-
case was canopied with red roses and shaded
with rose-pink lights. The wrap-muffled
women were drafted up strange back stairs,
and directed to their cloak-rooms ; then, hav-
ing powdered their noses, they were care-
fully marshalled and told to rejoin their
escorts by way of the centre staircase. It
was excellent stage management. The ball-
room was so crowded that the early dances
were just good-natured jostling. “At any
rate, no one can fall in this crush!” re-
marked one member philosophically. Presi-
dent “Jimmy” McLaughlin received the Gov-
ernment House people, and helped them take
supper. The Denman lady wore a startling
pearl and diamond tiara. Lady Fuller was
a dream of a fair woman in blue. Miss
Phipps' looked smart and sportful in black.
Aimee Clarke, wearing baby side-curls, was
quaintly pretty. Mamma Grey-Egerton was
nearly strangled in diamonds. Strangula-
tion by diamonds is one of the privileges of
the very rich. Miss Ogilvie was a vision in
lace. Little Miss Inglis-Hudson and Miss
Fuller, both of Sydney, were conspicuously
pretty in a roomful of beauty. Kathleen
McPherson-Knox was one of Melbourne’s
best representatives, and young Mrs. Geoff
Syme another.
Councillor D. Y. Hennessy was elevated
to the Mayoral rabbit-skin, and invested
with the city’s hereditary dust problem, last
Saturday. The reign commenced, as usual,
with a great deal of food and drink, and
about four columns of loose eloquence. Mrs.
Hennessy was permitted to invite lady
friends to gaze on the ruins of the banquet,
listen to the talk, and absorb music and
coffee. It sounds thoroughly depressing, but
some, at least, of the guests enjoyed it.
Our own Victor Hood is hurrying back to
the occasional sunshine of this land. He has
had secretarial jobs in most of the Australian
States, and is now to stand at the elbow of
Strickland, the new Ma State Excellency.
Private Secretary Vernon, the black-
haired, black-eyed prop of the Denman
household, is receiving congratulations on
his engagement to an English girl. He goes
off early in the coming year to claim her
and step into a comfortable official post
provided by the good British Government.
Coal baron William Brown, owner of
Piastre, was not at the club to receive the
Cup and congratulations, some important
lawsuit having drawn him away to Eng-
land. Friend Inglis spoke a few words on
behalf of the absent conqueror, who is a very
smart and well-liked man about town, a
great pal of Rupert Clarke’s, and a fine
matrimonial catch who gracefully avoids
being caught.
It is alleged that the coal-owning Browns
patched up their differences just before Mel-
bourne Cup. Both of them tipped Piastre
to win in the event of Duke Foote being
beaten, the only difference in the opinions
of the brethren being that one of them didn’t
think the Duke could lose.
Mrs. Consul Bouvet, a lady with a creamy
magnolia complexion and a fascinating
figure, managed to drift languidly back into
the social whirlpool half-way through Cup
week. She has been in a private hospital.
The Bullfinch Doolettes added to their
little pile by a £2OOO win with Maltravers,
on Oaks Day. Mrs. Doolette, garbed in
white, hurried round and arranged a small
impromptu dinner at the Savoy, where the
win was quietly champagned.
Mrs. Collins, of Auckland, one-time a
dashing McCarron maiden, of Melbourne,
has been carrying some of the smartest
dresses to social victory during the Cup-
ping. She has just returned from foreign
parts, and is well supplied with “dreams.”
Miss Brierley, who came to this country
under the wing of Mrs. Fink, joins in the
fun.
“Rosna” writes from London:—
Editha Le Hunte, for a long time S. Australia’s
only vice-regal chick, was married here the other
day to Godfrey Pease, lately private sec. to his
Excellency of the West Indies. Her father left
Trinidad to govern itself for a month, and came
over to give her away; and two of the, four brides-
maidens were imported from Adelaide for the occa-
sion. They were a Milne damsel and the Bakewells’
iolly daughter Valerie. It was an autumn-tinted
knotting. The bridesmaids were visions of maize-
color and roses, with mob cans and veils of golden
net. The pages were likewise golden clad; so was
the reception-room; so was the bride in her going-
away chiffons. She’s a fair-haired, pretty slin of a
girl, and well-adorned the white charmeuse wedding
robe, with its wealth of ancient lace. South Austra-
lian names were spread largely over the wedding
gifts, for the Le Iluntes have kept in touch with
the Slowly City to a degree precious rare among
ex-Exes.
Local dignitaries, political and otherwise,
looked as rigid as the waratahs upon the
walls when Chamberlain Nevill beckoned
the visiting Grey-Egerton dame into the
official lancers and left them out in the
cold. _ The Grey-Egerton baronet was not
on view; but his lady sparkled enough for
two, being like Bret Harte’s famous heroine,
“bediamonded out of all reason.” By the
way, tiaras were so frequent and free that
night as to be hardly impressive at all.
Writes my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Otranto brought us yet another cleric—the
Rev. H. R. Cavalier. He is under contract to per-
form—-I mean discourse —at the Anglican Cathedral.
The holy place has neither endowments nor pew-
rents, and so it has to rely on what the ungodly
vaudevillain terms, I believe, “the strength of its
Bill” to attract a congregation. Of course there
was no local talent available. There never is in
clerical affairs.
Dr. Holtze, of the Botanic Gardens, has been
in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, searching for
tips and things. As a critic he is wary. “All the
gardens of the other States,” says he, “are good—
in some way.” But on reading between the lines
it seems that the sloping lawns and the cool shadows
of the Melbourne Gardens have pleased him most.
Mrs. Prosser, who for five years has been Mayoress
of Norwood, was entertained at tea on Wednesday
by the feminine ratepayers (and non-ratepayers) of
Norwood. They also gave her a diamond ring. E. T.
Smith, who has himself been Mayor of Norwood more
than once, handed over the glittering goods, together
with the usual glittering remarks.
The Children’s Hospital is to be enlarged. Like
the rest of our private enterprise healing-establish-
ments, its financial position is none too good. The
£40,000 which the public has given to it in the
last 12 years has been mopped up like water.
At the beginning of the year Mr. John Warren
went out of politics for good. On Monday morning
he was presented with a portrait of himself, by
some of his constituents and his former colleagues.
He is 82, yet proposes shortly to undergo an opera-
tion for cataract. Such gameness merits not a single
portrait merely, but an entire picture gallery. The
Duncan knight made the presentation, and announced
that the portrait would exhibited in the Art
Gallery before being officially taken over to its
subject.
Mrs. Fearon gave a dance to about 70 young people
at Netherby on Wednesday evening.
The picture shows have removed themselves from
the Town Hall for the summer, and concert cos. and
choral societies are tumbling over one another to
secure dates. The Adelaide Choral Society led the
way with a good performance of “The Creation,” at
which Mr. Eugene Alderman’s orchestra scored a
win.
Scots gathered in force (and kilts) for the Hallow-
e’en celebrations. Mr. and Mrs. Wemyss and the
Peter Woods were the joint entertainers, but illness
kept Mr. Wemyss away. Bagpipes, supper, spor-
rans, Highland flings, brose, haggis, siller and other
Scottish luxuries were rife.
The South Australian Yacht Club struck bad
weather for its opening jollifications on Saturday.
The morning was a flood, and the afternoon a ty-
phoon. The seafarers were as cheery as was possible
in the disastrous circumstances.
The Glenelg Bowling Club declared itself open
for the season on the same awful day. The bowlers
were even merrier than the mariners. The bowler
has always to his hand a priceless prophylactic (in
divers brands) against the fury of the elements.
Mrs. Bob Rvmill has gone to Penola for the sum-
mer, and the Teesdale Smiths are installed at Mount
Lofty.
The first polo match of the season occurred at
Plvmpton on Saturday.
Guy Fawkes Dav bad one small resurrection, which
did the Children’s Hospital a bit of good. Small
convalescents stationed themselves at the dif-
ferent gates with “guys,” and begged for pennies—-
their cash value at the end of the morning was
£8 10s.
(Continued on page 36.)


/ . ;
gnottww •nw» , **|g H
&%$ aM s Ais,-3ivH s&s /
w* mt mm /A
* ihxvkv’h
; “3KS* "JJU M.' ifW* S*H
e* «»«fcr.»Mau
3d<I3MH3S
Ms
s&*
s ... 1.. •
-
»v
••* •
ft
si
m
..
m
r
#
V
Wr
ill
II
I" l :
IlMpI
SB
am
M
I*
1
V
H
if
r.
' .
*
fj,
m
■
iM
m
Tis M
m
i‘ A
IM
m
/
:
■■
■tP-M
'II
■
.
Made from Fresh Lemons.
Mixed with Schweppes* Soda Water or Lithia Water,
maKes a most Delightful and Refreshing DrinK.
Purveyors of Mineral Waters to His Majesty the King.
Head Office : 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World.
OXHVS
Tbe New Drink, bottled by SCHWEPPES*
LIMITED. Sarto is a most refreshing* drink,
and contains .most excellent tonic properties,
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.


ASK FOR
♦ ♦ ♦
FRANZ JOSEF
LAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HACKERBRAU
DARK LAGER.
NEURALGIC PAINS CURED.
“For seven years I suffered with neuralgia and
shooting pains in the head,” says Mrs. M. A. Crad-
ock, John Street, Salisbury (S.A.). “I tried many
things, but found nothing equal to Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm. 1 have recommended it to many, and
they have been relieved. It has also relieved my
son of these neuralgic pains.”*
The Australian Mutual Provident Society an-
nounces in our special columns that the next distri-
bution of the profits will be made as at 31st
December, 1912, when all participating policies issued
in the Ordinary Department previous to the close of
the current year, as well as those already on the
books, will participate in the Cash Bonus to be al-
lotted for this year. Since its inception the Society has
distributed among the members no less a sum than
£16,853,102 by of Cash Bonuses, while the
amount divided for the single year 1911 was
£888,911, the latter representing reversionary addi-
tions to policies of £1,550,000.*
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Ob-
tainable everywhere.*
SAVE STOCK and MONEY
gf
by castra ting
with the im-
proved instru-
ment —
DENVER’S
EMASCULATOR.
Its pri n c i pi e
absolutely pre-
vents loss of
Write for
it to-day.
45-
stock through hemorrhage.
PERFECT FOR lIORSES, BULLS or RAMS.
Improved Mouth Gags, Cutters,
Drenching Bits, Rasps, Ball Guns, etc.
Write for Price List.
DENYER BROS.,
281 George Street (opp.
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Victoria at present holds (on paper) the
world’s record for prevalence of lunacy.
“But,” says John Weary, in excusing him-
self for his somnolent disregard of the
matter, “there is nothing alarming when we
come to look into it. The number of insane
could be very materially reduced if we dealt
with the old people who are worn out in
mind, and often in body, as they would be
dealt with in any other country. In other
communities they would be placed in bene-
volent institutions, not in lunatic asylums.”
Exactly; and it was to carry out this dis-
cerning policy that an expert was imported
to Victoria some eight or 10 years ago. Also,
it is as head of the Lunacy Department that
Weary is paid a salary a good deal larger
than he earns. But, apnarently, there is
“nothing alarming” in the fact that the
things aren’t done which these gentlemen
are paid to do here as they are done else-
where.
The Commonwealth Government is guilty
of reckless finance, all right; but the reck-
lessness is rather in earning than in spend-
ing. The Customs and Excise revenue for
October was £1,402,241), or £327,297 more
than for October, 1911. For the four months
of this financial year the receipts have been
£5,422,372, or £740,202 more than for the
corresponding section of last year. Yet Fisher
estimated a decrease of £200,000 for the
year! Naturally a Treasurer likes to have a
buoyant revenue, but seeing that, as Cus-
toms revenue increases, employment de-
creases, that huge tariff revenue is pretty
bad business for the Commonwealth.
Fat hits his own friends sometimes. Those
energetic individuals who leased land at
Wonthaggi (Vic.) when the State coal mine
was opened, and built shops, offices, etc.,
thereon, in the expectation that the mine
would be worked to supply the State with
its own coal to the mine’s full capacity, are
now complaining of general deadness. In-
stead of being a thriving, increasing city,
the place is moribund—mainly because the
Fat Landlords last year refused to vote the
£lOO,OOO for developmental work that the
case called for. Still there are many degrees
of Fat, and it is less painful to squeeze the
comparatively little Fat of Wonthaggi than
the very bloated Fat who bosses the inter-
state coal and shipping business.
The Rev. M. J. O’Reilly, president of St.
Stanislaus College, Bathurst, complains that
the uniforms for which the cadets were
measured 12 and 18 months ago have not
yet come to hand, and meantime the boys
have increased so in stature that the old
measurements are useless. This seems to
be in line with a lot of things. The rail-
way to the N.T., for which Australia’s
measure has long been taken, will probably
be out of date before the first sod is turned.
The Australian citizen army will probably
be several sizes too small by the time it
arrives from the makers. Even Australia
itself, which Providence, or something,
measured to fit the aspirations of a great
white race, may be too cramped to afford a
hiding place for the remnant of that race
when the trouble arrives.
AN INDIGNATION MEETING.
The appointment of Labor adherents to various
offices by the Federal Ministry is highly discredit-
able.-“Liberal” comment.
FIRST LIBERAL : “Most unjust and reprehen-
sible, in my opinion .”
SECOND DITTO : “Most discreditable, sir. If
we hadn’t pushed your lad in when we
were in power , we wouldn’t have a ghost
of a chance now!”
“There is no measure of the value of work
except the old one ‘Get what you can !’ ” says
Judge Ileydon, of the N.S.W. Arbitration
Court. The Bulletin hears this with some
surprise. If Mr. Heydon planted a turnip
seed in his garden, and watered it, and other-
wise nurtured it, this paper had an idea that
Mr. Heydon would be entitled to the turnip.
It also has an idea that if some Ned Kelly
bushranged Hey don’s garden and got as
much of the turnip as he could, the Judge
would' at once jump to the conclusion that it
was a case for gaol.
Melbourne Age has come to the conclu-
sion that Victorian’s Legislative Council is
merely political cat’s-meat. Observe :
It is the self-appointed mission of the Council to
arrest progress in the interests of property. And
that it has done.... The national interest matters
nothing. The Leg. Council never troubles about the
national interest. We do not accuse the Council of
conscious wrong-doing. That would be unkind. It
acts wrongly, of course, but merely because it is in
a condition of intellectual and political decomposi-
tion.
Now, when does the Age propose to do any-
thing? When, for instance, does it intend to
give a hand to a party that will pledge itself
to shift this piece of intellectual and political
decomposition?
ON THE GOOD SHIP SCRAPS-AN.
PATCHES.
Renewed efforts are being made to consolidate
the Federal Liberal party inside and outside the
Federal Parliament. This afternoon Mr. Deakin was
approached by the Parliamentary party and re-
quested to adjust the situation, etc.— News item.
The Argits loathes and despises the
Labor party’s programme because “it glori-
fies sponging into a policy,” and “strikes at
the root of character” by wet-nursing and
coddling the people. Fat’s motives are
always excellent. What he
says is: “Leave me free to
sweat and rob the people
as the only reliable means
of improving their charac-
ters.” By the way, Victoria
pays about half a million
annually in pensions, prac-
tically all of it to ex-civil
servants of the “superior”
class. The Argus never
once denounces this as a
policy that glorifies spong-
ing, and never seems to have
suspected the smallest dan-
ger to the strength of char-
acter of the recipients.
The Rev. A. Isaacs sup-
porting a Melbourne Congre-
gational Union motion
against the Australian de-
fence laws, said: “Trust in
the Lord is all-sufficient.”
What evidence can the rev.
gent, produce? Has any
known nation since the days
of King Khammurabi, 2300
B.c. found trust in the Lord
sufficient? Meantime, while
Mr. Isaacs is producing the
proofs, he might tell us
whether he thinks trust in
the Lord would be sufficient
to protect his hen-roost
in a district where Chinese chicken-lifters
were particularly active.
“W.” : I propose that we call the capital
“King-dom Come” out of compliment
to the O’Malley and in reference to the
period when it is likely to be occupied.
UNDER A CLOUD.
The feature of the formal proceedings of the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly yesterday was the
shadow of the financial cloud.... The shadow deep-
ened during questions without notice, when the recent
dismissals of laborers were referred tor— Daily paper.
“Melb ” : Ex-President
Wrixon’s portrait has
been hung beside those
of Palmer, Mitchell,
Mcßain and Zeal in the
Vic. Legislative Council
corridor. Wrixon started
out well by marrying
Money Miller’s daughter,
though the estate did not
pan out so well as the
prattlers expected. There
are lots of people who
don’t aspire to be top-
notchers, and Wrixon was
one of them. There was
a time when he was the
only man in Vic. who
looked like being a Chief
Justice or a Premier, but
he didn’t reach out after
either job. There have
been others like him. Not
infrequently a Willie
Watt prefers to be
vizier to a Jack Murray,
and there is a character-
istic refusal of Deakin’s
on record. Once Victoria
looked round in despair
for anything that seemed
to have the marks of a
Premier a b.o u t it.
Deakin was in full view,
and the financial crisis
howled to him with all
the tongues of the lost in Cohenna.
Deakin side-stepped a tough proposition, and
George Turner, an almost unknown man,
bogged into the quagmire and won through—
a genuine man with just a little more stiffen-
ing of the spine than either Deakin or
Wrixon.
A vociferous section of his own party is
making discomfort for Beeby, Minister for
Labor (and a few other things) in N.S.W.
Beeby passed a pretty stringent anti-strike
law, which, of course, meant penalties for
breaches; and there _ are alleged Laborites
who reckon that it isn’t a Labor Govern-
ment’s job to penalise men for exercising
“the sacred right to strike.” If striking is
to be made illegal, penalties are inevitable;
so it simply amounts to this: Is the Labor
party going to rely on Arbitration and
reason, or on strikes and physical endurance
without regard to rights and wrongs? The
sooner the party quite makes up its official
mind about that, the sooner it will put either
Beeby or the sacred-right-to-strike people in
their proper place. Incidentally, it is just
as well to remember that the sacred right
to strike involves the sacred right to lock-
out ; and that may easily be a serious thing
for the workers when the slump gets a little
worse, and there are a few thousand unem-
ployed ready to do a turn for the Fat
employer.
The Massey Government (M.L.) is losing
no time in carrying out the “honorable
understanding” with its stout friends and
well-wishers. One of the most unpleasant
eyesores to those friends and well-wishers
has been the State Fire Insurance Dept.,
and how to wipe it out, in whole or
part, has been the cause of many a sleepless
night. The most profitable part of the
department’s business has been in conjunc-
tion with the Advances to Settlers’ Dept.;
each borrower was compelled to insure his
property in the State Fire office. That has
been altered now. Under Massey’s rule, the
regulation, which read: “You will require to
furnish State Fire insurance cover,” has
recently been replaced by this: “You will re-
quire to furnish a quarter-day insurance
policy, preferably effected with the State Fire
Office.” Now good old Pirate Enterprise is
preparing to show the Backbone the advan-
tages of his “solid” office as compared with
the State office which the Government itself
has weakened on.
W. Angliss, of the Melbourne
butchering trade, is snorting so
violently at the idea of such a
thing as a local Beef Trust
that people are wondering what
perturbs him. If the alleged
meat ring exists only in the
imagination of the Minister of
Agriculture and other people
who naturally know nothing of
what they talk about, why does
Angliss write half-column let-
ters to the Argus, protesting
against their ignorance? Why
worry? Surely a myth could
be left to explode of its own
gas.
“Mr. Ocky”: One of Vic-
toria’s crying needs is for a
Labor party leader who will
hustle things along a bit. Prin-
ter-politician Prendergast is be-
coming every day more impos-
sible, for he has developed an
inertia that would do credit to
a whole-hog Tory. That is to
say, he is inert in most of the
things that really matter, whilst
in the tiddly-winking concerns
he makes a most disproportion-
ate bid for cheap advertise-
ment. He helps to block some
of the good proposals made by
the Cabinet, mainly for the
reason that an absurd party
system encourages him to do
so, but lacks the energy to forcibly pro-
nounce his own best ideas at every oppor-
tunity. Watt may lose his office, but Mac-
kinnon or McLeod is much more likely to
acquire it than G. M. Prendergast.
THE STRENGTH TO BE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 heard the march of a Nation’s feet as Australia’s
pride went by,
And niv heart was thrilled with a stronger beat, and
a glad tear dimmed each eye;
For this was the dream of my younger days, my
vision of strength to be,
And my soul-chords sang like a harp of praise, with
an anthem brave and free !
As the Young Guard passed with a martial tread,
that challenged the base and mean,
I cried “All hail!” and I bared my head to Aus-
tralia’s war-machine.
And it seemed to me that the Nation’s soul rang
forth in a major key—
“We have turned our face to a nobler goal ; we are
marching, God, with Thee!”
Then planet and star and the farthest sun blazed out
in an echoing hymn—
“Ye have turned your backs on the creeds foredone,
and the erutch-faithed gospels dim!
Ye have raised the flag of a nation just—ye have
spurned with a strong man’s heel
This niddering crew with its feckless trust! Ye have
girded tempered steel!
Now this is the law of the ages all, that life for a
land begins
When it grasps the steel at the danger-call and turns
from its faithless sins!
And this is the law of our Captain, God, that only
the strong shall thrive —-
In the days when the bolts are lightning-shod, ye
shall save your land alive!”
Then the Nation’s voice, in a stronger key, pealed
forth to the farthest star —
“We have turned our face to our destiny from the
racecourse revel far!
We have gripped our Steel with a Strong Man’s trust
in the work that is ours to do—
We have faced our Task as a nation must, for the
girding-years be few.
We have wasted years of our grasping-time; with
fingers slackened and slow
We have toyed with life and its tasks sublime—hark
now how the bugles blow !
For this is the proof of our stronger zeal, and
trebled the proof shall be
When our ship-yards clamor with turret and keel, and
the rail joins with the sea!”
From planet and star and the farthest sun came
echoing forth “All hail!
And ye are the kith of the breed once spun from
each English shire and dale !
Yea, ye are the kin of the pauper breed that whines
at the name of steel.
Whilst your kinsmen cringe in the hour of need, ye
are arming the Commonweal!
Lo, this is the law of the ages all, that the seed
such Empires sow
Is reaped in tears when the bugles call and the
brazen trumpets blow!
Yea, this is the law of our Captain, God —that only
the Strong Lands thrive,
And only the weak shall kiss the rod and bow
’neath fetter and gyve! ”
I heard the drums of Australia beat. As they echo
. around this sphere; v
I would weave a psalm of my faith complete that
our crutch-faithed kin may hear!
I would hail my dream of the Younger Days, ere the
Prodigal’s course was run,
Ere this land had turned from its husk-strewn ways—
(l, too, was a Prodigal Son!)
Shall the Young Guard pass with its martial tread,
that challenges all things mean ?—-
Shall England hearken ?—her drums are dead, and
vain is her war-machine !
Has she turned her back on the noblest goal ? —is she
marching, God, with Thee?—
I only know that my Nation’s Soul is ‘endowed with
Thy strength to be!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


|| A New Grade of;:::J
Cheaper Petrol
.§ has been added to ourlisf of
High Grade Petroleum Spirits^
You have three grades; of
Spirits to cKpdse from :
" “ PrattV Yellow |
A : superfine odorless, light spirit
“ Pratt’s Rei UWS|
A high grade highly deodorised benzine of|||
111 l %' l
Pratt’s Ji
A -cheaper Spirit for business Cars or Motor •
Waggons. economical l^d.|. : ; :
per gallion cheaper.,:,.; j;; .: fif
&;&:i SSxSiSiiSSS jijipp;
If yoi|f||&age does not stock, order: direct
Vacuum Oil Co. PtyJ LtdL
hg
hg
fh
gfh
The "Lucky Owner”
—of a Lincoln Stuart Tailored Suit is the
Man who wins the Congratulations
(though they may be unspoken) of those
who know how ra're is really good Tailor-
ing—and who can appreciate the value
to a Man of True Clothing Perfection.
You can be a
“Lincoln-Stuart Tailored Man”
—You can be the Best-Dressed Man in your partic-
ular world—no matter in what distant portion of
the Commonwealth you are situated. Our Mail
Order Service gives to every Man in this Big Con-
tinent of ours ALL the Tailoring Benefits that
are usually regarded as being the special Perquisite
of the City Man.
PATTERNS POST FREE—
From 10,000 “Certified to Satisfy” all-wool Suit-
ings (Australian and British made) together with
a copy of our Mail-Order Catalog, Self-Measure-
ment Forms, Tapes etc. —Remember, there is no
Barrier of Cost—whatever figure is yours from
50s to 105 s
At that figure WE GUARANTEE SATISFAC-
TION —if we fail, we refund your money in full.
Could we offer more ? Write to-day.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd
Flinders Street, Melbourne,
“ Mail-Order Tailors— and Outfitters ”
Books for Designers.
AN craftsmen interested in artistic lettering
and decoration will find suggestions of the
utmost importance in these books.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS)
476 George Street, Sydney.
P&the’s Home
Cinematograph
List of Subjects Available for Sale or Exchange
and to Subscribers to the Circulating Library.
The list given is not complete. There are many other subjects, and the list
is being added to automatically by from 20 to 30 every month.
ALL PATHE HOME CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS ARE NON-INFLAMMABLE.
HISTORICAL.
Coronation of Napoleon I.
SCIENTIFIC.
Mediterranean Jelly Fisli.
Life and metamorphosis of the Dragon l-'ls
HUNTING. .
Hunting the Giraffe.
Boar Hunt.
Bear Hunt.
Walrus Hunt.
Whale Fishing.
Elephant Hunting for Ivory.
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
Japanese Types.
A Japanese Marriage.
Coppelia.
Italian Dances.
Head-dress of Historical Periods.
A Marriage in Brittany.
TRAVEL.
Niagara Falls.
The Ganges.
Through the Old Egyptian Temples.
Carnival at Nice.
A Crocodile Farm.
The Great Ice Sea.
Sea Effects at Monte Carlo.
Venice.
Rapids of the- River Magdapis.
BIBLICAL.
Moses Saved from the Write
The Prodigal Son.
FAIRY.
Fairy Spring.
Pierrot’s Nightmare.
Lightning Changes.
Magic Flowers.
The Golden Beetle.
Trip Round a Star.
Arabian Wizard.
COMIC.
Rest Impossible.
Modern Sculpture.
His First Cigar.
The Plank.
A Cure for Baldness.
The Conjurer.
Jim Out Hunting.
Tom Thumb, Flirt.
An Unskilful Skater.
A Victim of Hanging.
Max, Equilibrist.
The Haunted Hotel.
The Dancing Pig.
VARIETY.
Cat Studies.
Jiu-Jitsu.
Grecian Dance.
Japanese Equilibrists.
Owners of Machines who have not had information respecting Pathe’s Circu-
lating Library of Moving Picture Films, and Pathe’s Cinematograph Exchange,
should write for booklet giving full particulars.
Those desiring information respecting Pathe’s Home Cinematograph should
write at once for Booklet. This machine makes its own light, and can be used
anywhere, in town or country, without any risk whatever. The light costs nothing
and the films are absolutely non-inflammable.
PATHE FRERES,
27 ALLIANCE BUILDINGS,
48 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
TASMANIA: S. SPURLING & SON, 93 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
QUEENSLAND; BIRCH & CARROLL, Rothweil Chambers, Brisbane.
W.A.: THE OPTICAL & PHOTO SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and POST AT ONCE TO ANY OF THE ADDRESSES ABOVE.
PATIIE FRERES, J/8 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free catalogue of the Pathehome Cinematograph.
Fame
Address
Dept'. C 27.


THE CORRECTIVE PROPERTIES OF
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Many people have no hesitation in taking
a dozen bottles of medicine in liquid form
prescribed by a doctor, but view with' alarm
the suggestion to take a course of pills. This
D:
*ORS£&
DIRECTIONS
Uktiefart rt/irinf.
INDIAN ROOT
'PILLS *
misapprehension is no
doubt due to the im-
pression that pills are
merely purgatives,
which may be correct in
some instances. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, however, are not
merely purgatives, act-
ing upon the bowels
only, but contain more
important properties,
which correct all dis-
orders of the blood,
stomach, liver and kid-
neys, evidence of which
is not wanting. Thou-
sands of testimonials
sent us voluntarily and
gratuitously from all
parts of Australia ver-
ity our statements of what Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will do and are doing
every day. You will find neighbors, friends
and relatives everywhere who have been re-
stored to health and who can testify to the
marvellous blood-purifying and healing pro-
perties of these pills.
&
.'<■c*
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor -General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The unaccountably bad performance of
hot-pot Duke Foote in this year's Cup, which was
on all-fours with the unaccountably bad perform-
ance of hot-pot Trafalgar in last year’s Cup, may
prove the best thing that could happen for the
public. In backing the old-established favorite that
"must get there or thereabouts,” a lot of confiding
punters reckon that thev are at least assured of a
pleasant thrill for their money. They are not going
for a big win, but they are paying an extravagant
price, as it were, for the expectation of seeing their
gee in the front rank coming down the straight.
Last year it seemed impossible, bar accidents, that
Trafalgar could fail to make a bold show in the
Cup. He had won the Melbourne Stakes brilliantly,
and his staying power was proved ; nothing but his
heavy weight could stop him from winning, and the
weight wouldn’t tell until his backers had experi-
enced their thrill. This year, nothing could stop
Duke Foote, bar accidents, save a gradual failing
of his energy after he had gone more than 12 fur-
longs. Up to that distance he had been tested and
proved. Yet he ran exactly as Trafalgar ran last
year. He was never nearer the front than 7th, and
he finished 15th. The people who took 7 to 2 about
Trafalgar a year ago, and 6 to 4 about Duke Foote
last week, were not given a ghost of a winning
show for their gamble. The completeness of the
failure was equally unaccountable in both cases.
Moral: Don’t take a very short price about any-
thing for a Melbourne Cup.
Mr. “Baron” Brown made no pretence of re-
ceiving his defeat philosophically. To a reporter
who asked him what he thought of Duke Foote’s
backwardness, the owner would merely say: “I
wasn’t on lop of him. Ask the bov who was on
him.” From which it appears that “Baron” Brown
doesn’t admit the possibility of Duke Foote having
been beaten for want of stamina, or because he
wasn’t feeling well. Yet the fact remains that the
brilliant animal ran badly in last year’s Cup, but
was equal to winning the Williamstown Cup (11
furlongs) a few days later.
The notion that English-bred horses in Aus-
tralia are sprinters rather than stayers is _ a
popular delusion, considering that none of the im-
ported ones have been first-class or even second-
class performers in their own country, or have been
tested for stamina before being put to it on this
side. Their average form in two-mile races is good
enough. Yoyou, who ran second to M°rriwee, was
the first imported horse to go for a Melbourne Cup,
and if the race had been a week later, Yoyou
would certainly have won it. Comedy King was
imported as a youngster with his dam. Five English
horses ran in this year’s Cup, and three of them—
Hallowmas, Almissa and Eudorus —finished in the
first six. What the gees from the Cold Country
lack is sturdiness and amiability, as a rule. Two
notable specimens—Son of the Marsh and Sand-
bath —have been raced in winkers. The latter is,
apparently, a most sulky beast, though, like Hal-
lowmas, he managed to win the Waverley Handicap
(14 furlongs) at Rand wick. They ran Sandbath
without winkers for the Melbourne Cup this time,
and an hour before the race one of his caretakers
made frantic efforts to pour some Dutch courage
into him from a lemonade bottle. But it was a
waste of effort. And a lot of good brandy and
water, or whatever was in the bottle, got spilt
everywhere but into Sandbath’s mouth.
Leaving the favorite’s collapse out of the ques-
tion, there was satisfactory confirmation of “form
in the Melbourne Cup running. Piastre and Ladies
Man, the first and fourth, had run second and third
in the Metropolitan a month earlier, and the Met. of
late years has been a good race to draw inferences
from. In 1906, Poseidon ran second in the Met.
before winning Caulfield and Melbourne Cups. In
1907, Mooltan and Apologue ran first and second
for the Met. Apologue ran second in the Caulfield
Cup to stable companion Poseidon (winner for the
second time), and turned the tables on Mooltan in
the Melbourne Cup. Next year, Mooltan won the
Met. again, and Maranui was third. Maranui then
won the Caulfield Cup, and Mooltan finished fourth
(broken down) for the Melbourne Cup. In 1910,
Flavinius ran third for the Met. before winning
the Caulfield Cup, and last year Lady Medallist was
second in the Met. before winning the Caulfield
Cup. So in six years out of the last seven, the
second or third horse in the Met. has won one or
other of the subsequent Cups, and on one occasion
two of the placed horses in the Met. were placed in
the Melbourne Cup. This year the Met. form was
not represented in the Caulfield event.
Melbourne Cup race this year was some-
thing of a triumph for the touts, as it happened.
Pia- tre was credited with a “phenomenal” track gallop
of if miles, which was the more talked about because
fe' ' or none, of the other candidates had done any
\< :y severe work. Also, Matouree surprised the touts
P r his improved form at exercise, and for 12 furlongs
or thereabouts Matouree was one of the leading lot.
On the- other hand, the horse-watchers reported that
Duke Foote was not shaping like a Cup horse, and
that Uncle Sam showed signs of going off. To the
present writer’s way of thinking there was a distinct
disimprovement in the nervous chestnut. The Uncle
Sam who got badly jostled and somewhat cut about
in the Cup race was not the same lusty animal that
won at Caulfield. He showed the same pluck in his
finishing effort, but he had been slow in getting near
the fore, and there was a want of vim in the run that
placed him third, only a neck or so in front of
Ladies’ Man. A great battler on his day is Uncle
Sam, and not likely to be troubled by a bit of weight
in any company; but his very best days are not
often The chestnuts, as a rule, are not as tough
as the bays and browns. Look at the performances of
Malt King, the handsomest chestnut of them all ! A
champion at a mile and 10 furlongs, his periods of
mightiness have been fitful. And even Trafalgar was
inconsistent (though rarely out of the hunt) as com-
pared with Carbine and Poseidon.
An early fancy for tbe Melbourne Cup is
a vain thing. Trafalgar, the ill-fated favorite in
three previous years, and-a popular selection this time,
broke down three weeks before the race. The Paris-
ian also went amiss. Wilari broke a blood-vessel,
and dropped out of notice. Karnattan, who had been
saved for the Cup, broke his leg and was shot a week
before the race. And a lot of other early fancies
withered on the stem of hope. Then there was
Flavian, the second in both Cups last year. He had
grown into a noble-looking animal, and was said to
be “coming on nicely.” He continued to come on,
though not so nicely as was expected, until Derby
Day. Then he trod on a stone when returning to his
stable from the course, and hurt his heel. Scratched
the day before the Cup. And Lady Medallist. She
was said to be “in great buckle” up to the time of
starting for the Melbourne Stakes. After which it
was discovered that her awful failure was due to a
strained muscle or something. It might as easily
have been the lot of Piastre to kick a stone or strain
a muscle. Bookmakers look for these things to hap-
pen. Early punters forget that they have ever
occurred. ,
Melbourne Cup betting on the Hill at
Flemington was absolute robbery of that large sec-
tion of the puntocracy which goes to the races in a
picnickian spirit, and is most in need of the protec-
tion of the Tote, lor a long time before the start
for the Cup the books were filling their bags with
quids, ’arf-quids and dollars at the all-round market
price of six to four Duke Eoote, three to one Piastre,
three to one Uncle Sam, “10 to one bar three” and
“outsiders,” on a proportionate scale of wickedness.
Remarkable fact that only two of the
jockeys who weighed out for this year’s Cup had
previously ridden the winner of the big event.
“Bobby” Lewis was atop of The Victory in 1902;
McLachlan steered Prince Foote in 1909, and Comedy
King in 1910.
The last two days of the V.R.C. meeting
were largely devoted to reversals of form. For in-
stance, tne furious Sandbath, who had been always
at the heels of slower animals in the llotham Handi-
cap on Derby Day, sprinted away with the Veteran
Slakes on Oaks Day, and did the 12 furlongs in
2min. 34sec., winch is nearly a record for the 1 lem-
ington oval. Mountain Princess scored an actual
record for a mile al flemington, by capturing the
Linlithgow Stakes, in linin. 39sec., the ground being
sufficiently springy for the honest little mare. She and
Sylvander claimed big allowances, whereas Wolawa
a.id Burrawang were penalised 101 b., and the advan-
tage in the weights served the two handicap fliers
at the finish. * ' * *
In the Oaks race the improving Moe
fairly outstayed Perdita, and beat the Derby time
by 3sec., which suggests that the daughter of Wal-
lace and Moama is likely to be the best three-year-
old of the season when the autumn comes.
Saturday was Cider’s day for getting his
revenge on Wolawa, in a muddling contest for the
C. B. Fisher Plate. The betting on this w.f.a. event
was as unsatisfactory as the running of it. For a
while it seemed that Uncle Sam would start as
good a favorite as Eudorus, and a better favorite
than Piastre, on the reasonable assumption that
the big horse would carry 9st. more easily than anv
of them. Finally, the odds against Uncle lengthened
to fives, whilst Cider shortened to fours (two points
less than Wolawa’s price), Piastre and Eudorus being
the favorites. A field that included the winners of
Melbourne and Caulfield Cups, and the winner and
runner-up in the Derby, might have been expected to
put up a lively fight; but the pace from the start
was so slow that Uncle Sam had the lead forced upon
him, as it were. In the straight the field bunched
and the big horse never got a chance to make his
famous effort at the finish —if he was capable of it.
Cider got the run and pipped Eudorus on the post.
After the race, which was 16see. slower than the
Oaks, the appearance of Uncle Sam indicated that
he had been considerably buffeted, or was otherwise
upset.
* * * * ,
Duke Foote’s scratching for the C. B.
Fisher Plate, wherein it had been intended by his
owner that he should reassert himself, was practically
a confession by “Baron” Brown that his champion
was stale, and must have been going stale on the
previous Saturday, when he won the Melbourne
Stakes in the dirt, and trainer Barden reckoned it
bad policy to give the waning Duke a gallop on
Derby Day. But the owner would have his way,
and 'the Melbourne Cup fiasco didn’t immediately
convince him that his way had been wrong. How-
ever, between the Tuesday and the following Satur-
day the Duke went right off, and now he is to be
given a spell. It. doesn’t follow that the favorite
could have won Melbourne Cup had he been allowed
to miss his trying engagement on the wet Derby
Day. All the same, it seems certain that he would
have retained until the Tuesday some of the old
form which he finally exhausted on the Saturday in
the Melbourne Stakes. If his less remain true to
him, Duke Foote will bloom again anon. He is a
much hardier-looking customer than half the local
horses, or any of the imported stuff. #
“H.”: The one month of dismalification
imposed on jockey Shanahan, the rid ' of Piastre,
for interfering with Uncle Sam in the C. B. Fisher
Plate, was one of the displays which bring the
theoretics lly-good stipendiary steward system to
scorn. The five runners were well together inside
the distance, Uncle Sam on the rails, when Piastre
swung in. knocked the Caulfield Cup winner on to
his haunches, and injured one of his hind legs.
Cider and Eudorus rushed past, Cider winning by a
head. Wolawa was fourth. So Uncle Sam was
bumped from a winning position to last. And the
V.R.C. stewards, having found Shanahan guilty, hit
him with a penalty which will enable him to be in
the saddle at the very next meetings of any conse-
quence, viz., the A.J.C. and Tatt.’s summer fixture in
six weeks’ time. It was a splendid opportunity _ to
drive home a lesson that badly needs hammering in;
and it was thrown away.
* * * *
For the first time in the memory of the
oldest member, the Vic. Assembly met on Cup day.
True, the afternoon session was cut so. that members
might see the winning of the utensil; and for a
time there were doubts whether a quorum would be
got in the evening. But Labor reinforcements
dribbled in, and the situation was saved.
* * * *
The police report of Melbourne Cup day
makes pathetic reading: “Two hundred police pre-
sent—only three pockets picked.” Apparently Pat-
rick Iscariot had cleaned out the crowd.
* * * *
Adelaide Racing Club is generous enough
to congratulate Victoria on robbing it of E. W.
Ellis as stipendiary steward. The job is worth £750
per annum. # #
The Tote at Johannesburg, S’Africa, had
one of its frequent bursts of generosity the other day.
In the Galloway Plate a much-disliked outsider
romped home easily, and its six supporters on the
Tote were rewarded with £389 Bs. for a win and
£5B 16s. for a place. The trio who had backed the
quadruped for a straight-out victory included two
of Britain’s colored population. Even niggers enjoy
the blessing of the Tote, for which the Ikey-bossed
punters of N.S.W. and Vic. are sighing in vain.
As the N.S.W. Government has arrived at
that stage of the spendthrift’s progress where any
stone that may conceal a sovereign is worth turning
over, why doesn’t the McGowlman Ministry make
Levien’s Totalisator Bill a Government measure,
force it through, and get it going in time to scoop
in a few thousand pounds of revenue during the
Christmas horse carnival ? It is hard to say how much
money is spent in gambling during an A.J.C. week
at Rand wick; but as six days’ racing in Maori land
saw £243,417 go through the machine, it is fairly
safe to say that the punters of Randwick invest at
least £lOO,OOO on the usual four days’ meeting.
And £lOO,OOO put through the Tote, yielding 2$
per cent., would give the worried Treasurer Cann
£2500 for a Christmas box. #
The chief item of interest in the boxing
circle of Melbourne last week was the biffing of
Turner. Turner (13st. 41b.) was scrapping with
Walsh (12st. 31b.) at the Athletic Pavilion with
Fu 11a love, amateur middleweight and heavyweight
premier of for referee. Turner showed a
disposition to make it partly a wrestling bout and
partly a boxing contest, and the referee spoke to
him severely. In the fifth round he . was pulling
the men apart, when Turner “gave him wan” on
the neck. The referee immediately changed his name
to Fullafury, swung round and drove a straight
right on to Turner’s cheekbone. The fearsome
smash landed right and square, and sent Turner
spinning against the ropes with an opened cheek.
The referee, having settled that little matter,
pointed to Walsh as winner, and then left the ring
without as much as a look at the man he had prac-
tically slugged out. It was a beautiful wallop.
At the inquest on boxer McCarthy, who
died after his battle with feather-weight George
Taylor in Melbourne, it transpired that the pro-
moter did not have the boxers medically examined
before letting them enter the ring. Taylor was
arrested on a charge of feloniously slaying McCarthy,
but medical evidence proved that he had nothing to
do with the death of his late opponent, who
really came to a sudden end through high blood
pressure. Any violent exercise, such as chopping
wood for the missus, would have brought about the
climax, immediately the exertion passed a certain
point; and any medical examination worthy the
name would have disclosed the fact. The promoter
said he was under the impression it was optional
whether he had the boxers medically examined or
not: If it is optional, it ought not to be, not only
as regards boxing, but as to some other violent
sports as well. In bike racing compulsory examina-
tion is especially necessary, as one man coming down
on a crowded track through heart-failure may cause
death or injury to every man in the heat, while
in motor-bike contests the possibilities are very
gruesome. * * *
Some weeks ago, when bail was first
granted him, some of Johnson’s familiars advised
him to evanish, as the ’Murkans had determined to
get him out of the country or into the cells; but
Johnson decided he would stand his ground, as
leaving would entail losing his Caf6 de Champion, and
all the rest of it. Then when the police dropped on to
the trail of a secret harem, and scented some transac-
tions relating to the bringing of Belle Schreiber from
Pittsburg to Chicago, in 1910, to be a member of
that harem, Johnson opined that the time had come
to get out. But he had left it too late. Still, he
made a sort of effort, and when the police called he
was missing; but they ran him to earth in an ob-
scure part of the town,” hiding in a negro hotel,
and promptly arrested and handcuffed him. ■John-
son showed signs of weeping; and as it is saul the
Law proposed to charge him with eight offences in
connection with white women, he has something to.
weep about. Boiled down, the United States Federal
Law Department charges Johnson with being a
“wb-'te slaver” of a large and aggravated type. And
that’s just about the ugliest charge a nigger can
have brought against him in the U.S.A. It is tor-
tunate for Johnson he’s in Chicago— way down m
Tennessee he’d probably have gone up in smoke ere
this.
* * * *
Annarpntly we are in for a new way of
deciding fights in Sydney. The referee m the ring
controlled the fight on Saturday night, but when it
was over a Stadium officer walked to the judges and
obtained their written verdicts, and as they . were
apparently unanimous Hill was declared the winner.
Apparently the referee will only five his decision
now when the judges disagree. What a wily old
diplomat the Mclntosh is, to be sure! When the
press jumped on his referee, he promptly wrote to
that official, expressing his boundless confidence in
him, and assuring him of his undying support. And
before the staggered press got over the one on the
point thus administered he appoints two judges to
assist the overworked referee. Now, whose leg was
being pulled?
Crawford the cricketer is engaged to a
pretty girl in Adelaide, so Australia is likely to
keep him, notwithstanding that his quarrel with
Surrey county has been honorably patched up. Ail
the same, he ought not to be allowed to play in the
projected Trumper benefit match. It is sure to be
regarded as a trial of (strength between the Austra-
lian XI and the “Six,” and Crawford—who was not
eligible for selection in the former —would give a
fictitious appearance of strength to the latter.
*
The damp wickets in Sydney on Satur-
day were all in favor of the bowlers, who took deadly
advantage of the fact. G. C. Willcocks (105), of Uni-
versity, scored the only century. The next best was the
72 of J. Hodgkinson, of Sydney, who was still not
out when stumps were drawn, whacked off the Middle
Harbor bowling. Eric Barbour, of University,
smacked 50 off Central Cumberland, and there the
list of batting honors ended. F. Bowden, of Gordon,
took six for 22 and one for 20—a total of seven for 4-
for the afternoon—in the match with North Sydney.
Folkard, the reliable Balmaniac, felled six Burwood
wickets for 26 runs; Stack, of University, smashed
up six Central Cumberland sticks for 54 ; Dr. Hor-
dern, of North Svdney, bagged five Gordon batsmen for
16 • and A C. Rough, of Petersham, smoothed five
Glebe wickets for 39. Naturally, _ under these cir-
cumstances, there was no very brilliant scoring, and
the top tally of the afternoon was the 250 of Uni-
versity, for 155 of which IVillcocks and Eric Barbour
were responsible. The absolutely best effort, though,
was Sydney’s 124 for two wickets, whereat Middle
Harbor and all the world wondered. Middle Harbor
had gone in first, and previous to coruscating in this
fashion, Svdney had dismissed it for 115. Naturally,
the games' made wonderful progress. North Sydney
smacked 110, dismissed Gordon for 39, and then
smacked 58 for three wickets in the second innings.
Central Cumberland left 86 for University to eclipse,
which it did by putting up 250. Redfern smacked
106, and asked, Waverley, what it thought of it.
Waverley expressed its honest opinion by hitting
107 for five wickets. Petersham dismissed Glebe for
89, and put up 40 for the loss of four sticks. Bal-
main got loose on Burwood, laying it out for 52 and
making 66 for five wickets. Paddington smashed
up Dr. O’Hara’s team for 51, and piled up 114 for
the loss of seven wickets. All of which is what the
spectators call “bright cricket.”
* * * *
Owing to the dampness of the previous
week-end, the third round of Melbourne’s pennant
cricket was crowded into about three hours’ play on
Saturday. The policy of a captain was obviously to
send in his smiters, if he had any, and whack up
a couple of hundred; then declare, and get the other
side out. Of course, the other side might boast
some swifter smiters ; but that risk had to be taken.
East rushed in to glory or a walloping, and accumu-
lated 197 for one wicket in 100 minutes. Then it
closed and set about consuming St. Kilda. The
latter declined to be consumed in the allotted time,
and when stumps were drawn had put together 90 for
four wiclcpts. The other teams either lost so manv
early wickets for so few runs, that they were forced
to play for the draw, or else left the “closing” busi-
ness so late that they had no chance of outing their
opponents. Fitzroy made 238 off South Melbourne’s
bowling; and South didn’t have a look in at the
wickets. Northcote declared against Essendon with
151 for five wickets; Essendon replied with 63 for
six wickets. Prahran hit 218 for eight wickets, and
Carlton had to be content to supply the bowling.
Collingwood made 277 for five wickets, off Rich-
mond’s bowling. North smacked 183 off Uni., and
the Students put up 68 for one wicket. And as
tzihbon might have written, thus was lost a fine op-
portunity for sundry youths to let themselves go
and shake things up, even if they were outed for
ducks and the game lost. # #
Sydney yachtsmen had a good time, and
the open boat men an exciting one on Saturday, when
the Yacht Squadron ran off the Gascoigne Cup, and
the Flying Squadron blew through two heats and a
final. Six yachts started for the Gascoigne in a
charming E.N.E. breeze of pleasant muscular de-
velopment. Culwulla 111. got the best of a magni-
ficent start, and practically led the way out through
the Heads after some excellent manoeuvring on the
part of all the fleet. Among the competitors was the
sometime Melbourne boat, Sayonara. Culwulla 111.
led round the mark at Long Reef; Sayonara, follow-
ing, carried away the top-mast, and thereby lost all
chance of the Cup. Thelma ran into second place,
closely followed by the little Petrel, after which
flashed White Wings and Ranee. After that the ex-
citement cooled down—it was merely a case of show-
ing the cleanest pair of heels, and they tore home
in the order in which they rounded the reef, Culwulla
leading the way. But when the handicaps were ad-
justed it was found little Petrel had scooped the
utensil, with Thelma second and Culwulla third.
In the open-boat section the day was to
the big boats, which were also the back-markers.
With their vaster sail surface they raked the skv
for wind—and got what was going. Some of them
raked it so thoroughly that they caught more than
they could carry, and turned turtle. In the first
heat Australian, under the old master, Christian
Webb, got away to a splendid start, and donkey-
licked everything that came against her, except Kis-
met. which would not be altogether shaken off, and
finished second. The second heat fell to Donnelly,
after a hard tussle in which there were more cap-
sizes, and several cases of gear carrying away. They
were crowding on the canvas recklessly, and had
their reward —a free wash. Arline hung on right
through, and finished second. In the final Austra-
lian and Kismet were penalised for their win in the
first heat. But a new Richmond appeared suddenly
in the shape of Nimrod, which by a daring stroke
gained about a mile on the whole fleet. After mat
it was a case of the fleet chasing Nimrod home.
The real struggle was between Kismet and Australian
for second place, and the handling of Kismet was
beautiful to see. At the psychological moment Kis-
met crowded on every possible rag. Ihe boat lifted
out of the water and blew past Australian at a ter-
rific rate. And, as they say in the classics, landed
the second side of the bacon.
* * * *
After two days of desperate struggling of
almost Bulgarian ferocity, South Sydney retained its
grin on the Dunn Challenge Shield, the outward and
visible token of the championship of Svdney Athletic
Clubs. It was the club’s third successive win. But
—tremble Tarshish! Each year sees the down-
trodden clubs making a better fight, drawing nearer
to equality and success. In 1910 South won with
to the good; in 1911 the margin dropped to
1: and last week’s victory showed the still nar-
rower gulf of 51 points between South and the next
best, East Svdney. The actual positions last week
were—South 'Sydney, 311 points; East Sydney, 26
points; University, 18 points; Police Club, 15
points; with five others picking up the crumbs that
fell from the tables of these mighty ones.
* * * -*
Sydney’s maddest sportsman is a man
who once had a friend mutilated by a shark. It hap-
pened years ago, but he goes on paying it back to
all sharks he can get hold of. His method is simple,
if not delightful. After a shark has been caught, he
is hoisted up the side of the launch, and a hook
made fast in his tail. Attached to the hook by wire
is an empty kerosene tin, which has been hermetically
sealed up; and as soon as the attachment is made
the shark is liberated. The brute can’t keep down
except by exercise of strength. Immediately he takes
things easy the buoy drags him tail first to the sur-
face, and he loses his equilibrium. Fear gets hold
of him. He chases his own tail frenziedly; and the
rest of the sharks stand aghast and remark, “What’s
up with Blue-nose?” Then B.N. gets a dark sus-
picion that there is a conspiracy against him, and he
runs amok in circles, snapping and gashing every-
thing that comes in his way, till he is exhausted,
when up goes his tail again. By this time the Shark
Legislative Council has held a session, and decided
that this sort of conduct is un-British, or something
to that effect, and they fall on B.N. and tear him
to pieces, and get badly mauled in the process. Oc-
casionally a wiser shark comes to the surface and
bashes his tin frenziedly on the water, battering it
in. Once the “sport” caught a shark that had two
hooks still fastened in his tail, so he marooned him
in a harbor pond till he could make proper arrange-
ments for his adequate decoration, which, when it
arrived, turned out to be a barrel attached to the
hook by a strong chain. That shark went mad and
died of sheer fright in about 32 minutes after being
let loose. It’s a weird joke!


gf
Mvjair
doe
Clace Kid
balmor&l
2l'
dlso
\Q f t dnd
22 6
The Marshall Shoe
ujifh virile individuality
and oood taste
I t A I-
-0
A
MON
RIG
CO.
LTD.
WATSON’S No. 10 SCOTCH
hgf
hg
Among Men
the excellence of Watson’s No. 10 Whisky
enjoys wide and well-merited appreciation
Try Watson’s No. 10 and you note a softness
and smoothness rare in a stimulant so full and
individual in flavour; you mark a uniformity
of quality, a rich mellowness, and a singular
freedom from ill-effect, and henceforward
you will specify ‘No. 10' with confidence.
WATSONS No 10
Wholesome, trustworthy, enjoyable—matured bv age alone.
Obtainable in all the leading clubs, hotels, and restaurants.
Si,/,/ by Win, Menhatut an',l Stares <-i terete-bete.
The Experience of 97 YEARS in Every Bottle.
Strength Ensures Health,
fh
There’s a lot of strength lying asleep in your frame. Wake
it up ! You’ll be surprised at your improved feeling—your
greater power to resist fatigue—your better appetite—your better
digestion.
There are about C2O muscles in your body that require correct
exercise. Many of them are very little used—that’s why they’re
weak that’s why you’re not as strong as you can be —as you
ought to be.
The Baker Postal Course of Health ani> Strength will
awaken your sleepy muscles. It will nourish and strengthen
every muscle in your system. It is founded on the correct prin-
ciples. The various movements go straight to the right spot.
There sno waste effort. That’s why you will get results quickly.
The same as G.K., of Balmain, Sydney, who writes as follows:
“I have been exercising on your system of Physical Cul-
ture for about one month now, and have much pleasure in
saying that there is a decided improvement in my condition
of health and strength.”
Now, wouldn’t you like to be strong—to have the reputation of
being a strong man ? Then, in justice to yourself, you should
enrol on my Postal Course. Further information as regards
fees, etc., are given in my absorbing folder, “Physical Culture
by Post.” I’d like to send you a copy. Won’t you please write
for it, and send threepence in stamps for postage?
REG. 1. ("Sivowy”) BAKER,
108 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Old
4*o
(DOUBLE
Orkney Whisky.
Another Triumph for
“Sheir’Spirit
in Automobile Club Hill-Climbing Test,
held at National Park,
October 19, 1912.
EESULT:
CLASS “A”—
Ist on “SHELL.”
3rd on “ SHELL.”
CLASS “B”
Ist on “SHELL.”
2nd on “SHELL.”
L. W. DODGE § CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODCE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTops and Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per^et.
Leg Guards. Wicket-keeping Gaunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
gh
PILES CURED
By MURPHY’S
PILE PILLS.
The result of an irritated membrane can-
not be cured with a knife, but by removing
the cause of the irritation.
What is a more natural cure than a
strong and yet healing remedy, which will
bring life back to the deadened tissues? This
is the action of Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills.
They go right away to the feverish mem-
brane, heal the ulcers, remove the inflamma-
tion and swelling, and bring back the affected
parts to their normal condition. They suc-
ceed where all other methods fail.
Do not delay your cure. Get a box of
Murphy’s Pills to-day. They are sold every-
where by leading chemists and storekeepers ;
or may be obtained direct from the proprie-
tors. Price, 3s. per box, post free. Sole
Proprietors: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD.
Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
Most Young' Men
And those who feel young, prefer occasion-
ally to have a touch of oddness about their
shoes, and that does not necessarily mean
freakish footwear; but just enough depar-
ture from the monotonous and conventional
to arouse attention, and yet be refined and
dressy.
Rigney Footwear is decidedly popular for
this very reason.
The Shoe here shown is a Rigney special
—an exact reproduction of the up-to-date,
made-to-order styles. Can be supplied in
all leathers—black or tan.
Price 18/6 to 25/-
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for a Copy of our Catalogue.
1
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S P,RIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
gf
Best
Lighting
Atmoslite.
It is unparalleled for
brightness, safety,
healthfulness and econ-
omy—the most import-
ant requisites of good
lighting.
The machine is auto-
matic, simplicity it-
selreliable, durable
and economical.
Write for literature
ana f.. 11 information.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizab.th St., Melb nirne.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
hgf
TWO TIPS with
OSPKEY.
Black, White,
Cream, arid Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5/-
The Bunch,
l’ost Free.
We uialie this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-da.v. Send I’ostal Kote.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiik Bulletin.] [3
.Sir Lauder Brunton
Snake Bite Lancet and Cure
A Simple and Practical Reiftedy
I NEVER FAILS WHEN PROMPTLY USED
Only One Shilling
Carry it in your vest pocket ready for instant use
and you need fear no snake, however deadly. Sir
Lauder Brunton, the famous Royal Physician,
vouches for the genuineness of this treatment, that
has saved (lUKdrods of lives every year
in India from cobra and karait venom. The com-
plete outfit is only 2y£ inches long and about as
thick as a pencil. Full printed directions with
each . Lancet. Send Postal Note for f/- to
7110 Union Co. v 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR'S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by all' Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
*3
/
AEABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for
Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, 1/- and 2/6.
(Observe si;?nature, Alfred Ardlev, No. 7410).
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
i
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
Inconvenience
in
48 hours.
h
Bach Capsule bears the name iD©""
7HE QUEEN
OF
M°
l\W
<ifi s
TABLE WATERS!
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital . . . • • • • • • • • • ■ • • • . : -
Reserve Fund ( £500,000 is invested in 24 per cent. Consols, the remainder
being used in the business of the Bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter
£1,600,000
1,960,000
1,600,000
£5,160,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT of the DIRECTORS of THE BANK of AUSTRALASIA.
With the Accounts for the Half-year to 15th April, 1912.
Presented to the Proprietors at Half-yearly General Meeting, held on Thursday, 3rd October, 1912.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to. the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at April tost, "'’ th ;l , t^? l
Account for the Half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current tor
'Colonial rates and taxes, and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the 11a y
i2O To I7 t o his B sum must be added £16,073/14/8 brought forward from theTate
total of £224,244/13/2, out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the ‘. U y a annum
of 14 per cent, per annum, or £2/16/- per share, and a bonus at the rate of P ’
12/- per share, together £3/8/- per share, free of income-tax. • . armroDriated £5O 000
The Dividend and Bonus will absorb £136,000, and the Directors further appropriatea .
to the Reserve Fund, and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of Bank Premises. There will men remain
£18,244/13/2 to be carried forward to the next account,. .. 4( -y, October
The Dividend and Bonus will be payable, in London and in the Colonies, _ on 4th October
Since the date of the last report, new branches have been opened ” “0“
Zealand; and the branches at WalhaUa, in Victoria, and Zeehan, 111 .Tasmania, have been closed.
E. MONTAGUE NELSON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street. London. 23rd September. 1912.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from OCTOBER 16, 1911, to APBIU I~>. 1912.
Undivided profit, October 16, 1911
Less: Dividend and Bonus, 29th March. 1912-
Profit for the Half-year to April 15, 1912, after deducting rebate on
bills current at balance date (£5527/12/3), and making pro-
vision for all bad and doubtful debts
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial — . , , _
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff,
including the superintendent’s' department,
..£152,073 14 8
136,000 0 0
£16,073 14 8
£383,049 15 0
and 206 branches and a"enp'o
General expenses, inclv.il hr rent, repairs, sta-
tionery, travelling, ecc.
London —
Salaries
General expenses
11. Rates and Taxes —
' Colonial, £IS,LLI 16 2
London, 15,827 15 4
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct —
For transfer to Reserve Fund
For reduction in’cost of bank premises
Leaving available for dividend
. . £106,601 17
23,627 5
10.114 11
3,595 10
£143,939 5
30,939 11
6 174,878 16
£50,000 0
20/000 0
6 208,170 1
. . £224
0
0 70
244 13 2
000 0 0
. . £154,244 13
BALANCE-SHEET, APRIL 15, 1912.
Dr. LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. •• '£210,441 0 0
Deposits . . • • • • • • 18,196,527 110
Bills payable and other liabilities . 2,887,447 2 6
Capital ..£1.600.000 0
Reserve Fund . . 1,960,000 0
Profit account,
undivided bal-
ance .. 154,244 13
£21,294,415 4
0 '
0
2
3,714,244 13
4
2
£25.008.659 17 6
It. W. JEANS, General Manager.
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion Government notes,
and cash balances
Loans at call and at shorty notice
British Government securities . .
India and Colonial Governments
securities and other investments
Bills receivable, advances on se-
curities, and other assets
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand, and London
Cr.
£4,964,021 16 0
1,454,590 0 0
850,347 4 4
613,339 12 6
17,065,355 8 7
61,005 16 1
£25,008,659 17 6
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
We have examined the cash and securities in
transfers from the several branches m the Commonwealth and ~ , ’ dth t it fxhibits a true and
-SSK are valued at market
****.. m, WBLTON. JONES CO.. A uj ,„„. _
ASK YOUR WIFE
Being charged with the duty of assuring the maximum of comfort, at the
least possible expense, she appreciates the advantages of a perfect lighting
system, which is absolutely safe and clean.
SHE KNOWS
that the installation of a gas service means the saving of an untold amount of
work and worry, and, more than anyone else, realises the benefits of having
a gas stove and bath-heater always ready to help her through the continuous
round of household duties.
The Immense Saving Effected by
is alone a very important factor, for it is far cheaper than any known lighting
agent, while—being non-explosive and non-poisonous—there is no need to be
constantly on one’s guard against accidents.
THE SIMPLICITY IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MACHINE
assures reliability, and obviates the necessity of any skilled attendance.
The Company send their own Experts to install the system, and no payment
is asked until the Customer gives his certificate as to satisfactory service.
A BOON TO HOTEL PROPRIETORS and those in charge of premises
conducted for the accommodation of the Public, which patronises
those who study its comfort.
Directors:
Hon THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq. .
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Limited,
117 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
fgh
iDo You Long ror a Full Moustache?!
CHANGE YOUR
BOYISH
APPEARANCE!
BWK “
Years’ experience it has never failed. Test it to day.
Price 10/6 Jar, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
(worn at night) shapes the moustache.
Send for our Illustrated Price l ist.
Craig &. AitKen»
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
To vary the monotony of things it is proposed to
supply J. Bull witli an Australian play. T rank (Jerald
is on the lookout for a Fogtown playhouse to accom-
modate “On Our Selection.” The idea is to send over
the whole show, from the heroine to the horse’s col-
lar.
“Haresfoot”: It is a pleasure for me to hear that
Sprague, the son of Dolores Drummond, is an emi-
nent theatrical architect. I once acted with Dolores
when she played Martha Gibbs in "All That Glitters
is Not Gold,” which Thespians know well. It must
be very gratifying for a lady older than Ellen Terry
to have a golden son to lean on. Dolores was long
known on the Melbourne stage as Dolly Green. She
supported Jefferson, but- not in leading parts, and
maybe some will remember her as May Fielding, in
“The Cricket on the Hearth.” I have a dim memory
of seeing her act the hero in “Gil Bias,” also Fairy
Corallina in a pantomime. As with Mrs. Vezin,
Dominick Murray, Sheil Barry, and others who
went from Australia to England, the English people
found more talent in her than Australia did. She
was regarded here as mediocre. I remember her
just as pleasant, but nothing more. She astonished Aiis- :
tralians, even her friends, by the great English hit
she made as Ilortense, the French maid, to Jennie
Lee’s Jo. Really, Dolly was almost as much talked
about as Jennie. Her husband, Drummond, was a
member of the brilliant company which sunnorted
the Sisters Joey and Adelaide Gougenheim (Geoghe-
gan) at the Melbourne Princess's. Other members
were Emily Glyndon, Rogers, H. N. Warner, G.
Fawcett (Rowe), and Jimmy Milne. Boucicault’s
“Irish Heiress” and Planche’s “Extravaganza c 1
Fortunio” were the chief successes.
“Vulcan”: London Palace Theatre was the excep-
tion to the rule of general theatrical slump in Bull-
dom last season. The profits for 12 months ending
June were £23,826, which, after sundry liberal pro-
visions, panned out a dividend of 20 p.c. This result was
largely due to items on the bill like “Mdlle. Chic,” a
sketch by Gaby Deslys, the one-time best girl of
Mr. Manoel Portugal, now out of a job. It scandal-
ised the Fogtown press, and raised loud yells for the
censor. The piece is one of the bedroom order,
wherein the lady ihetamorphoses into a more or less
(mostlv more) state of Eve before a dressing table,
and afterwards dances “The Gaby Glide.” This
according to the Daily Express, is a species of;
Turkey Trot - cum - Grizzly Hug - cum - Apache
Dance, which “rightly belongs to the night cafes of
Montmartre,” and is described as sheer indecency.t
The item wasn’t submitted at George Rex’s recent
“command” performance. Probably the lady ob-
jected, on religious grounds, to the necessary Sunday
rehearsal.
One Max Goldberg, an English melodramatist, has
had the nerve to build another four-act play round
Sweet Nell, and to call it “Nell Gwynne of Old
Drury.” It makes Rochester the villain,, and actor
Betterton the comic relief, and gives Nell g falsely-
accused parent for whose sake she sacrifices herself
to the amorous king!
Apropos the gorgeous Opera House, built in Lon-
don by the N’York Jew, Oscar Hammerstein, there
are revelations about the ructions behind the scenes j
while the owner was running the disastrous show to
attenuated audiences. His prima donna, Felicia
Lyne, says he was so rude to her that she had to
strike him on the face with a copy of “Faust.”
Hammerstein says he can stand a lot, but he will
not stand that, so he. has issued a writ for £ 20,000 .
against Felicia. : And Felicia is getting in early by
giving het impressions of Hammerstein, with more
vigor even that she is alleged to have put into the
blow.
Charles Manners, who has been running the
“Moody-Manners opera company” in England, has
issued the prospectus of the “United Empire Grand !
Opera, Ltd.” Capital £12,500, in 100.000 half-
crown shares. Object, to produce opera in English
throughout the Empire on which the sun never sets
and the tax p-atherer never goes to bed. The com-
pany, says Charles (who is himself the owner of
one of the deenest coal-cellar or coal-scuttle voices
ever heard) will be “constituted for three years only,
as such a short period will afford a suitable oppor-
tunity to consider the effects of its operations. The
shareholders can then decide whether the profits shall
be devoted to the development of the scheme, or
whether the capital shall be returned, plus a bonus
derived from the balance in hand at the time of
winding up.” If this writer could be sure of that
balance, he would risk a modest 2s. 6d. of his own
in this Imperial operatic venture.
“Haresfoot”: How many know that Strauss’s
“Fledermaus,” from which “The Nightbirds” is
adapted, was performed in Australia? Few, I war-
rant. Camille Dubois was in the cast. She was the
wife of the Hon. Wyndham Stanhope, and her mar-
riage had been a London sensation. Another cele-
brity who played in the old show was present-day
producer Henry Bracy.
“N.L.”: Notice that the old folk-stories are being
effectively used by the biograph fiend. A recent in-
stance was based on the tradition (versified by Leigh
Hunt, and pumped into many of us at school) of a
test devised by a French court dame of the period of
Henry 11. The iladv, as most people have forgotten,
threw a glove into a den of lions, and dared one
of her lovers to rescue it. “Nellie the Lion-tamer,”
recently screened in Australia, similarly throws a
rose. Another adaptation from old story is that in
which a biogranh child detects daylight burglars at
work. When they vamoose she hangs on to their
motor-car and scatters bran along the road so that
they may be tracked, as Hop o’ My Thumb scattered
first pebbles and then breadcrumbs. In fact, the
kid’s a sort of Jemima Hop o’ My Thumb.
The drama draws steadily closer to vaudeville. In
London just now Gladys Cooper plays Beauty in
“Everywoman” nightly at one theatre; and the
young girl in the last act of the U.S. success, “Mile-
stones,” at another theatre —just as George Robey
dashes from one hall to another every evening in
quest of a crust, fizz and sundries. Talking of
“Milestones,” it is the success of the season in Eng-
land, and has travelling companies out everywhere.
“K.V.G.”: Re the conversion to righteousness of
George Edwardes, of comic opera, or rather musical
comedy, fame (B. 24/10/T2). Edwardes is not a
nephew of the late Michael Gunn, of Dublin. He is
a cousin, and his theatrical experience was gained
principally at the old Opera Comique, and the Savoy,
under the aegis of D’Oyley Carte, with whom Michael
Gunn was at that time in partnership. John Gunn,
of Clarke, Meynell and Gunn, who died some three
years ago in Sydney, was a nephew of Michael
Gunn’s, Not that it matters a cuss; but there it
is,
THE “KNOCKABOUT” GIVES A RECIPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How do we “go”?
Say you don’t know!
Not less than three calls.
Re-calls and re-calls,
Each bloomin’ show !
How do we score?
■Hear the big roar
Start when my pard here
Wallops me hard here —-
Biff ! On the jor !
Oh, what a shout!
Ten teeth drop out.
Then with my stick, I.
Havin’ a quick eye,
Fetch him a clout!
Why the big shriek?
Not hard to stek—
With ruddy make-up
I quickly fake up
lllood on each check !
That’s the thing—gore !
That's where we score:
That proves we’re hurtiu’
Each, other ! Curtain !
“Encore! Encore!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


VICTOPIA
PADK
PACING
CLCJB
SYDNEY
N - 3 -W
:: :: :
-i.,
Sas«? :
■V- ;
•sr
n
■ ' 7
■
m
I
;ss-
mmi
mm
■
lilil
lil Htfl
■
v/V>
WKv
£f)~
<Vl ¥ /#>• ' J
4
"4
N
a
JM
<£-n
/
4
V
v\\\
KV.'^Otv 1 k
m
>css
Wi<
■
Twelve Minutes
from Central.
Victoria Park Racecourse —situated
at Zetland —is only i 2 minutes from
Central Railway Station and affords a
pleasant rendezvous for lovers of the turf.
The grounds are extensive, and the
many flower-beds —now in full bloom —
make a most pleasing picture* Every
detail tending- to increase the comfort
and enjoyment of Victoria Park patrons
has been attended to —the splendidly-
appointed Grandstand equalling that of
any course in Australasia.
There are retiring and Sitting
Rooms for the use of Ladies —the
sanitary arrangements being modern in
every respect.
Part of the Ground Floor of the Paddock Stand
is occupied by a well-furnished Bar —the remainder
reserved for Dining Rooms, seating 200 guests.
A feature of Victoria Park racing is that all races
are run in one heat —there are no divisions. This
arrangement ensures keen, well-contested racing, and
allows visitors to return home in good time.
Next fleeting: November 20
FIRST RACE 2 P.M.
Look out for page on Victoria
Park Cup, November 28.
£lOOO Prize Money.
Full Particulars from
H. COBCROFT,
V.P.R.C. Secretary,
21 Imperial Arcade, Pitt Street, Sydney.


BE STRONG on
SCOTTS
Emulsion
Year after year Scott’s Emul-
sion maintains an unrivalled
reputation. Why ? Just be-
cause no other emulsion
approaches SCOTT’S in purity,
quality or strength—or gives
such definite and certain results.
FOR
all weaknesses,
colds, coughs,
bronchitis and
chest troubles.
SCOTT’S Emulsion never fails.
Doctors recommend SCOTT’S.
Nurses praise SCOTT’S.
Mothers write to say how
valuable SCOTT’S has been
to their children. These are
reasons why you should make
sure you get only the genuine
article. SCOTT’S Emulsion is
as good_ for_ adults
as for children.
But it must be SCOTT’S. Imitations
may look the same, yet lack the purity
and strength which are essential fea-
tures of genuine SCOTT’S Emulsion
i If
When you see the
name SCOTT’S
Emulsion on the
front of the package
and this trade mark
on the back —you
KNOW you really
have got genuine
Scott’s Emulsion.
Of all Chemists and
Medicine Dealers.
AN TINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural fodd ‘ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard, No. 3 Eden's Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street, East Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by 11. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
gfh
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
g
Thousands and thousands of
families in all parts of the world
always keep Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral in the house. They rely on it
for coughs, colds, weak throats,
weak lungs. Sold in three sizes.
4 CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in Tiie Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is Cd.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemists.
hgf
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis
U.S.A.
i
Combination Harness
and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing
Outfits (power or
foot). Easily operated.
non-royalty.
No Shoo Repair Shop Complete without •‘CHAMPION ’’ Outfits.
J. w. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Circular Qu.ay East, Sydney, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
Sole Australasian
Agents,
5^
wwi
Ota>-
-vrAj^
“ABERDEEN”
Do you fully realise the importance
of asking for “Tents,” and canvas
goods that bear the name “ABER-
DEEN”? This word signifies and
guarantees all that you desire to get. It
has stood the test of time, and is now
recognised as Australia’s best.
Prices surprisingly reasonable.
Ask your Storekeeper for “ABER-
DEEN” Tents, Flys, Tarpaulins, Water
Bags, etc., or send direct to
Smith, Copeland 8 Co. Ltd.
204=6 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
AGENCIES:
VICTORIA—J. Bartram & Son, King Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND— H. I. H. Ross, Edward Street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA—C. D. Whiting & Co., Adelaide.
TASMANIA— Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, Hobart.
W. AUS.—A. Balharry, Perth.
i^em/ngtom
TRADE MARK
Remington?UMC 22 Calibre
Cartridges are accurate and
uniform. The best shooters
the world over use them.
Jfemi/igton:
mark
19
20
21
13
21
20
21
19
20
23
19
The World’s Record
At 75 Feet, Standing.
This target shows the highest record ever made in a 100-Shot 22 Calibre
Match. The match took place in March 1911, at the Zettler Gallery,
New York, the winner being Arthur Hubalek with a score ot 2484
out of a possible 2500.' Mr. Hubalek used Remington-L ML Lesmolz
Cartridges. This stands as the highest record ever made and is a
score which probably , will stand for many years betore it is broken.
REMINGTON-UMC BLACK, “LESMOK” AND SMOKELESS
POWDER CARTRIDGES FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
EVERYWHERE.
Get This Handsome
Watch for 3/11.
It’s the biggest watch value in the city—worth 10/6 of anybody’s money
neatly finished and unvarying. Here’s our advertising offer:—Send 2/6 tor
trial packet of 10 King of All Cigars, and for a further 3/11 we will send the
watch. You absolutely cannot afford to pass this proposition. Send to-day.
See our Corn Cob offer below.
guaranteed.
CIGARS.
King of All' Reina Victoria, 4 a 1/-; Sample Box of 10, 2/0; 50 for 9/6;
Box of 100, 18/6; Light and Heavy Weights. All Pest Free.
Kino- of All Club, 20/- BOX OF 60. Post Free.
King Of All Buenos, 6d. each, 3 for 1/-; Box of 50, 16/6 ; 100, 32/6. Post
Free.
TOBACCO.
2oz Corn Cob, Packet, Out, Light or Dark, lOd. The Watch, 3/11. Postage,
6d Total, 5/3. Inter-State, 2d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6. Post *ree.
Large Block Corn Cob, Light or Dark 1/4. The Corn Cob Watch, 3/11.
Postage, 6d. Total, 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lb.—Boxes, 6/-, 2oz.
Packets, 6/6. Inter-State, extra.
Albert, Cable Shape, 1/- extra.
Craig & AitKeri,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Patrick S.: When did the Commonwealth
Labor Government promise that under its rule food
and money and everything else” were going to be
cheaper? The Anti-Labor importer’s ideal is cheap-
ness; it certainly isn’t the Laborite’s... .Kuaka.
Nicely done, in the main, though the humor is over-
strained. Go ahead; but if you send any more,
don’t jamb the typewritten lines so close together
that even a microbe couldn’t crawl between them.
A sub-editor is usually several sizes larger than
a microbe. . . .Welcome: It is not a Maori word, and
cannot be traced in “A Study of the Australian
Aborigines,” by John Matthew or in “KfimilarSi
and Other Australian Languages, by Rev. William
Ridley. Can’t find out, without wasting 17 days,
what is the meaning of the word “Kurraba. Don t
think it matters, anyhow.... Don Q.: Meat story
would be interesting if we could understand from
your varn which was the local Trust, the American
Combine and the proposed co. Handed it to the
office second-sight reader with disastrous results. . . .
R.J.D.: Sorry joke arrived —you can read it any
way you like.... Learner: Some grace, but they all
suffer from aniemia and the incurable complaint of
being 80 years too late. .. .Crystal: Commended in
a tired way. We can’t hold out the cream-puff of
hope or any liquid refreshments.... Donko: In writ-
ing motor verse, why not vary the old pomp-and- j
power tag by calling it pump and power? Iwci- i
dentally, first attempts are almost invariably foiled.
This one isn’t an exception.... Bob: Treatment is
fairly strong, but the theme has been worn thin.
Returning MS. Try elsewhere E.F.L.: Don t
want to heave even a beautifully upholstered brick
at you. You probably got some amusement making
the verses, but it wouldn’t afford Bulletin readers
any ’if we printed them. (P.S. —It is a sizzling hot
day. Ambling verses never read well in such
weather.) P.»T.O’F. i Sometimes it totters and j
sometimes it hobbles. But with all its tottering and |
hobbling, it does not arrive anywhere. ... Rialto:
Not convincing. Behind all “the peaceful reflections
of even” we can plainly hear the gasp of the picture-
show engine. .. .Bellerive: It is a great consolation
to S.ydney people to know that the North Shore
bridge has never been the scene of such a tragedy
as this: —
THE BETRAYER’S CRIME.
On a bridge stood a desperate couple i •, ,
As the moon shone on the waters below.
“Marry you!”,he exclaimed in anger.
“My final answer Doris is ‘No.’ ”
“I cannot approach my parents,” she pleaded,
“Don’t leave me in my hideous disgrace!”
The evil spirit of murder possessed him
As he glared at her poor haggard face.
A shriek wafted out through the stillness,
A splash in the waters did sound;
Across the bridge 'fled the merciless assassin !
The ill-fated woman was Drowned.
. ...L.K.: Delicate work, but uneven in places. Try
and file it down a bit more. .. .Cross Rowel: Afraid
not. . . .Manin: It makes, an .appeal, but lacks the
sure touch. .. .Concertina: Like all your tribe, you
gasp too much E. J. Carey: Will reprint in
Christmas edition... .Waiben: ..Glad to hear from
you; but don’t strain yourself to be’whimsical. If
you can’t be whimsical and intelligible, be intelli-
gible. .. .Perhaps Not: Sorry can’t advise you. It’s
a job for a solicitor, who will need to see the papers.
. . . ;Norseman: Don’t be so modest about it. Just
consider its beauties when you see it in print:—-
, It * was a lovely moonlight night
And the sun had - gone down
When a man, who i bad not lived right,
.Followed a girl from the town.
She was only about twenty-nine
No illness had wasted .her. waist
The villain said she looked fine
And after her made haste
When she got into the wood,
He caught up to her .
“What do you want? You’re no good
I believe you’re a cur.” , ...
He made her, tremble a much
Like a flea caught on a comb.
, She gasped: “I loathe your touch,
I’ll drive.this.hatpin home.”
“Ha! Ha!” he chuckled happily,
As he , saw the, hatpin bend,
“That can’t hurt me ■ -
There’s a protector on its end.”
The maiden paled and swore
“I’ll injure you, you lout,
And at his, only eye tore,
Until she got it out.”
The .bnite begged her to leave his
other eye
And she consented, for the villain
began. to cry.
[ . . . .Benner: Very close up. .. .Quids: Personal pars,
in particular. The B. • wants to know things that
are not known about. people that are known....
Platman: Don’t agree with you Anywhere: As
interesting as it is criminally libellous—and that is
saving a lot.... Gil: Three “bahs!” and four
“pahs !” in your article. We make it a rule not to print
anything containing’ indre than one “bah” and one
“pah.” As for “Pish!” we • have declared this a
strictly close season ... .McJ.: Spring-sopgs have to
be extra-special to-, get past. “The Liar” is dis-
qualified Brady: See no reason why Tatt.’s
should be suppressed, by direct or indirect means.
Whether it should be conducted in this State or
some other is a fnatter that doesn’t concern us at all.
...!Vigilans Civis: Far too wordy. .. .W.II.B.: The
office muleteer says that the otherwise unnecessary
operation improves the animal’s temper... .Horace:
Yarn doesn’t arrest. attention. Has it got a war-
rant ?.... C.M.P.D.: Unsuitable. . . .Tooloon: Humor-
ous verse induced a feeling of severe depression....
Kol: Your serious young contribution,, addressed from
a State school, has a long grey beard, carries a black
umbrella, and wears elastic-sided boots. Mistaken
the shop evidently... .Wanneroo: There is no answer
to the message. . . .Patriot: We can’t insert it in ariy
issue. .. .Sandfly: No. . . .T.E.B.: Rough rhymes,
j There isn’t tucker in them. . . . P.L.G.: Would you
1 mind weeping privately? Loud sobs in this column
disturb the' beautiful advertisements’ that live next
door. .. .Wilder: Your pen creaks. .. .A. H.: Story
did not find salvation.... Navua: Featherweight
rhyme knocked out in the first round. . . .A.A.: Un-
suitable. ... A.E.B.W.: They cannot enter in....
N.N.L.: You’re cheerful, anyhow. Rejected with
best wishes and a drop or so of encouragement to
cheer you on your way. . . . J.A.K.: Good theme, but
requires finer treatment. . . .A.E.G.: It gets about
half-way to acceptance. .. . W ill R.: Too rough....
F.O’A.: Don’t do it again.... Tom: You’re not
much good at potting jim-jams.. .Yatagan: We can’t
altogether follow you, and we don’t want to....
K.C.: Rhymed remarks to “a Fair Proud Maid” are
very jagged and unpleasant. In these days of cre-
mation societies, it is risky betting on anyone event-
ually being “food for worms.”. .. .N.B.: Not 18-
carat. .. .Will R.: Her shin isn’t worth all that'
space. . . . A.W.S.: Repelled again A.G. (S.A.) :
Not in our line. ... Monica: Idea too small....
R.N.C.: Dull verse and the workmanship is faulty.
. .. .Parhassius: You say, you’re only joking. We’d
like to take your word for it, but on the evidence
before us we can’t. , i .R.N.: ‘“Moonlight” too pale
for real pagan verse. .. .Fugitive: Not bad verse,
but subject old and threadbare. . . .Ironstone: Accord-
ing to the agents, no. .. .Neighborly Love: Your
poem has fillpd us with hatred of evervbody in our
suburb, from Bilker’s-alley to Jiggetty Jane’s-lane. ..
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
. CONTRIBUTORS.
P.F H : You have a bigger front than the
Owe’Sullivan railway station, to send along ancient
gags like those. .. .il.J.C.: As you say, the gags are
old —very old. Still, the drawing has an original
freshness about it. So have the trousers, or whiskers,
or whatever they are, worn by the ink blot on the
left Druitt:' Horrible pun; horrible drawing.


If you took a Plank o/ Wood
about 5 feet long, 9 inches wide, and an inch and a half thick; and
you drilled two hundred and sixteen holes in it, each hole an inch
and a quarter deep, and a quarter of an inch in diameter; hammered
two hundred and sixteen steel pins into those holes, each pin slightly
larger than the hole it was driven into; and then hung a weight of
about thirty tons upon those pins—what result would you expect
in a short time ? Would you expect the pins to remain firm and
tight ?
For one thing, each pin is tightly jammed into its hole, and
thus, acting like a wedge, tends to burst the plank asunder.
For the next thing, the tremendous strain on the pins makes
them like so many levers, ripping the plank apart lengthwise.
But suppose, in addition, some man comes along regularly and
twists those pins backwards and forwards with a tool.
They won’t be long in getting loose, wiil they ?
Now, what if that plank, instead of being wood, were made of
solid, tough, homogeneous iron ; and the pins are merely put into
the holes, not hammered in? The thirty-ton strain, or even double
or treble that strain, will not have much effect, will it?—and,
seeing that the pins are case-hardened steel working in smooth
metal bearings, the aforesaid man may twist them about a few
thousand times without materially loosening them.
pr
Fig. 1.- —Interior view of an imported piano, showing the rela-
tion of the frame to the wooden wrest-plank. The wrest-pins
and strings have been removed so as to show the parts more
clearly.
- <*>
M
#
-»®
Fig. 2.—-A nearer view of the wooden wrest-plank of the piano
shown in Fig. 1. The first layer of the wrest-plank has been
removed. Note how the timber has split under the strain of
the wires. This is an average wooden wrest-plank, neither
better nor worse than is usually found in imported pianos. All
pianos with wooden wrest-planks are, of course, subject to the
above fault, which cannot be remedied except at great expense.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 3.—The Beale-
Vader Patent Piano-
frame, removed from
the piano, and the end
of the wrest-plank cut
off to show the wrest-
pins in the solid iron
frame.
Now, all this applies to pianos.
The wooden plank, with its two hundred
and sixteen wedge-levers, is in imported pianos,
because neither British nor foreign manu-
facturers have as yet invented a thoroughly
practical metal wrest-plank.
The cast-iron wrest-plank, or plate, with
its steel pins, is in all Beale High-Grade
Pianos/because Beale & Co. are the first piano-
makers to invent a proper, reliable and effective
metal wrest-plate, a part of the usual iron frame.
Therefore ?
CATALOGUE FREE.
CASH OR TERMS.
w ■
i.
mm
I
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 4.—A nearer view
of the Beale- Valer
frame shown in Fig.
3. Note the wrest-
pins and tension-
screws contained en-
tirely in solid iron. It
is important for piano-
buyers to note that
these pins can be ad-
justed to ANY tension,
tight, medi n m, or
loose, by means of the
tension screws at the
back. We always ad-
just them resist the
pul 1-r ound of the
strings, but at the
same time they are
easily turned bv the
tuner icithout touching
the tension screws.
Our Pianos are tuned
in the ordinary way,
hy one man only ,
from the front only.
Be sure to note this,
and when you sro to
compare our Pianos
with the imported you
will know what to
think if you are toll
o t horwise bv un-
scrupulous competi-
tors.
BEALE CO. LTD
MAKERS OF
BEA. L E HIGH-GRADE PI A. NO S
“The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
CARL V A D E R PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65. 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST.. MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST.. PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kaigoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


15et Gold WED-
DING RING 25/,
18ct Gold 30/.
9ct Gold-chased
CURB BRACELET, Strong Safety-chain attached. £3/15/-
Set Gold RING,
set Amethyst,
17/G
9st Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies, 50/-
9ct Gold SCROLL and LEAF
BROOCH, set Amethyst, 5/6-
9ct Gold, set Pearls and
Amethyst, or Turquoise,
Peridot,
25/.
18 c t Go]
CLUSTER, s
pure doub
cut Diamond
£7/10/.
9ct Gold, set Pearls
and Amethyst or Red
Stones.
18ct Gold, set
3 pure double-
eu,. .uiaiuouUo,
£5.
Silver Gilt Enair el
and Amethyst PEN-
DANT, 12/6-
9ct Gold, set Pearls
and 'turquoise or
Ruby, or all Pearl,
so/.
18ct Gold, set
four Diamonds,
and Red or
Blue Stones.
£2.
9ct Gold BRACELET, set Peridots and Rubies,
£3/10/.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamonds.
£lO
9ct Gold, get Pearls and Peridot, Tur-
quoise, or Amethyst, 12/6-
Ladies’ Solid Silver HUNT-
ING KEYLESS WATCH, f
Plate, full Jewelled, patent
adjusted balance, 30/. Solid
Gold, £3; extra jewelled,
£3/10/, £l/10/; guaranteed
2 to 3 years’ free repairs.
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Peridots, or
other Australian Stones, 21/; 15et
Gold, 37/6.
£3/15
£3/15/.
Gold NECKLACE, set Corals, Peridots,
Tourmalines, or Amethysts, £3/15/.
807-817 CEORGE-STREET.
9ct Gold Band Ring,
set Red, Green, or
Blue Stones, 17/6-
AUNDERS
OF XMAS GIFTS
Is yours for the asking. It’s crammed with helpful gift suggestions in Jewellery,
Silverplate, Leatherware, China, and Optical Goods. Write for a copy to-day, and
we’ll post it by return.
9et Gold LINKS, 20/.
9ct Gold
GANT, set
and Garnets
PEN-
Pearls
20/.
9ct Gold SCROLL and LEAF
BROOCH, set Amethyst, 4/6-
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Tur-
quoise, or all Pearls, 20/•
9ct Gold MUFF CllAkX, £4/10/, £5/10/,
15et Gold, £6/10/, £7/10/, £lO.
Solid Gold Patent EXPANDING WATCH BRACELET,
full Jewelled, accurate, relilable, £4/4/; Lever move-
ment, extra quality, £5/10/, £6/10/.
WE
PAY
POST-
AGE.
9ct Gold, Plain Half-round BRACELET, strong catch
and Safety-chain, £2; wider, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
WE
PAY
POST
AGE.
Gent’s Solid Silver HUNTING KEYLESS
WATCH, full jewelled, non-magnetic, ac-
curate, reliable, 40/; 10 years’ guaranteed,
gold-cased, Hunting Keyless Waltham
Watch, 55/; Solid Gold, £7/10/; guaran-
teed 2 to 5 years’ free repair*.
Bet Gold LINKS, 17/6.
9et Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Amethyst, or
Garnet, J.2/6-
9ct Gold SCROLL and WISH-
BONE BROOCH, 4/6-
9ct Gold Scroll BROOCH, set
Amethyst, 8/6-
Solid Silver DOUBLE ALBERT, 8/(3, 10/6,
12/6; 9ct Gold, £3, £3/15/, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS
EB"gs>*ga 53
9et Gold Fancy BASKET PATTERN BEACiSLET, Strong Safety-chain attached £3/10/-
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL JEWELLERY ORDERS AND SEND PROMPTLY.
15et Gold, TWO-BAR BROOCH, set
pure double-eut Diamonds and Pearls,
£2.
12/6
10/.
S
Ladies’ Black, Open-face
KEYLESS WATCH,
strong works, dust-proof
cases; accurate, reliable,
10/; higher grade, 12/6,
15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
9ct Gold, set Pearls and
other Australian Stones,
Gold, S7/6.
Peridots, or
, 22/6; loet
£lO.
£lO.
15ct Gold NECI2LACEI, set Pure
Double-cut Diamonds, Green or Pink
Tourmalines, Aquamaries, Rubies, or
Peridots, £lO-
Opp. Railway Station, Sydney.
9ct Gold CLAW-
SET SING, set
Garnet, Amethyst,
or Topaz, 25/.
□
n
a
n
807, 809. 8 fl, 810, 613, 817, GEORGE. ST. (opposite Railway Station) JYDND/— t± s _S^r m
SYDNEY’S
LEADING
JEWELLER
Th
SILV
O
TJ
1
a
ER
»
CLO


You Must See the
Vest Pocket Kodak
The Vest Pocket Kodak is offered not as a novelty, but as a Camera which
will serve the purposes of those who would like always to have a reliable
instrument with them, but who find it neither expedient nor desirable to be
encumbered with heavier apparatus.
The V.P.K. is so diminutive that it fits easily into the average waistcoat
pocket, so accurate and reliable that the expert will revel in its use, so
simple that the beginner will experience no difficulty whatsoever in securing
successful results at the first attempt.
II
r$
The Vest Pocket Kodak is fitted with a carefully selected Lens, Kodak Ball-Bearing
Shutter. Brilliant Reversible Finder, and an Auto-time Scale. Loads in daylight with
Kodak Film for eight exposures. Takes pictures lfin. x 2-Jin. Price, 35/- V.P.K.
Film, eight exposures, 1/3 each. Descriptive booklet Tree.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker (£L Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The BlocK,” 284 Colliixs Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Randle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMB A : Rutnven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N Z. ; 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
AxftoSfaop
k S AzoR
Easy on your
pocket—easy
on your face.
Easy on your
pocket —BECAUSE
whatever the price of a razor,
you are at constant expense for <
new blades unless you use an
Auto Strop. the only self-strop-
ping Safety Razor made.
face
BECAUSE
you can strop the blade
to such Keenness that the
touch of the Razor when
drawn across your face
feels like a delicate caress..
Auto Strop Razor with rust-proof
blades and horsehlde strop In case.
Price in Australia, 22/6. price in New
Zealand, 25/-. Sole Depot for Aus-
tralasia: Partridge—Abercromby Ltd..
York Chambers, Market. St., Sydney.
■
m
• *
f
/ ■
ft: Ilf:
Model 1906 Repeating Rifle
Shoots .22 Short, .22 Long
and .22 Long Rifle Cartridges
For a good ail-round small caliber rifle for target or small
game shooting, nothing can beat the Winchester 1906
Repeater. It shoots three cartridges of different sizes,
giving quite a range of power. It has the rapid and
popular sliding forearm action and is bored and rifled to do
accurate shooting. It’s adjustable sights provide for shoot-
ing at varying distances. It has the reliability, good finish
and wearing qualities that Winchester rifles are famous
for, and yet it costs very little money. Ask your dealer
to show you one of these light-weight, handy repeaters.
A WINCHESTER REPEATER AT A LOW PRICEc


X/ESVEXS
wmm 3®e
TREE rf:
7,
7 */
y:
a
i 1
C*
” ■
®s
syfc
rn
% :■■
, 'V
* *
fe-s>-
'SC-
Parrot
Brand
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND ”
... EUCALYPTUS OIL
The Great Australian Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS and COLDS,
Stewart Dawson High-Grade Watches
For 41 years we have been supplying the public witli High-grade Watches, and the superiority of our
goods has inspired that public confidence which has built our great business. We guarantee the
satisfactory performance of all our watches, provided they are fairly used, and are always placed in
our hands for cleaning and attention, or we will refund your money in full, if dissatisfied after a
month’s trial. We pay the postage on all goods. Write for Illustrated Watch Catalogue.
Latest Improved English Lever Watch; .Solid ..Silver Case.
A thoroughly reliable Watch, with f-plate 1 ' piovement, exposed
winding wheels, 7 jewels, Brequet hair spring, safety pinion,
non-magnetic.
In 2oz. English Hall Marked Solid Silver, Engine-turned
Case. Price £2 / 10 / -
Lady’s High-grade Keyless Gold English
Lever Watch, made by Rotherhams. London.
The movement is f-plate, fully jewelled, com-
pensation balance, with Brequet hair spring
fitted.
In Dust-proof plain 18ct. Gold Case.
Price, £l6
In 9ct. Gold Case. Price .. £ll /107-
Perfect Timekeepers.
Highly-finished S. D. & Co. English Lever Watch, in Gold-
filled Cases. This is a f plate English Lever movement, with
7 Ruby Jewels, compensation balance, Brequet hair spring,
highly-polished, exposed, steel winding wheels and safety
pinion, fitted in an English-made Gold-filled case, which we
guarantee to wear for 20 years.
In Hunting Engine-turned Case. Price £4
Open Face 75/-
In 10 year Gold-filled Case, open face. Price .... 47/0
In 10 year Gold-filled Case, Hunting. Price .... 50/-
Highly-finished S. D. & Co., Demi-Hunting
Keyless English Lever Watch. Having one
of our latest f-plate Lever movements, we can
honestly recommend it for town wear.
In Gold-filled Cases, and guaranteed to
wear for 10 years. Price £3
For 20 years. Price £4/10/-
Pla'in Solid Silver Case. Price .... 55/-
Lady’s Gold “Waltham - ’ Keyless
Lever Watch. Made to our order
by the Waltham Company. The
movements are f-plate, fully
jewelled, compensation balance,
Brequet hair sprint?, with perfect
keyless Winding'. Fitted in hand-
somely engraved cases, various de-
signs. ..
In lOct. Gold. Price, £7/10/-
In 14ct. Gold. Price, £9/10/-
In 18ct. Gold. Price, £lO/10/-
These watches are thoroughly
timed and tested before leaving the
factory.
Lady’s 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunt-
ing-cased Watch, suitable for
young ladies. Reliable jewelled
movement —exquisi ely engraved,
solid l4ct. Gold. Cases —strong key-
less work, and altogether is a
sound and serviceable watch.
Price, £4/10/-
In Solid Silver Case.
Price, 37/6
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
(Australia) LIMITED,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Highly-fimshed S. D. & Co. Latest Improved
English Lever Watch. Dust-proof Case. Be-
in? a |-plate, compensation balance, Brequet
hair spring, non-magnetic, with highly-polished
exnosed winding wheels and safety pinion,
makes it a reliable timekeeper.
Open Face, with Solid Silver Engine-turned
Case. Price 37/6
In Plain Oxidised Steel Case. Price, 307-
In Plain Hunting Case. Price .... 35/-
The Bulletin’s “Trypliena” of yore,
who was converted into the Lady of
Doughty, has been telling a Canadian in-
terviewer that the Australians makes plea-
sure their pursuit, even as Canadians chase
the almighty dollar. But they are “not a
nation of idlers,” she hastened to explain.
Their “native gaiety of heart, and an almost
gypsy-like spirit of care-free content and
happiness” is the result of a healthful liver
due to a sufficiency of toil. “Nothing,” said
Tryphena to the historian —“nothing is
greater proof of the existence of workers
than the fact that the Labor party is now in
power, and that under Sir George Reid
changes have been already effected in the
Commonwealth tending to the increase of
wages, with, however, a consequent advance
on the price of food and other products.”
Which astounding testimonial to the politi-
cal achievements of George Reid, together
with the “with, however,” reference to
food, and a subsequent declaration of be-
lief in “women property-holders having the
franchise, indicates that The Bulletin’s
former penlady is now viewing the universe
through English pince-nez glasses. She
and her own particular member of the
House of Commons returned from Canada
to London last month, with the intention of
leaving in November for Australia.
The stylish brand of lady typist is a glad
but distracting sight, especially on Satur-
day mornings when she has an afternoon
appointment in view. Then she swims hap-
pily to her plain key-thumping job in garden-
party rig, confident that she will stun the
boss and male staff with her splendor. But
if the severe lead of a London firm is fol-
lowed, this sort of joy will be ruled out, and
plain duds on the tailor-made model worn
in place of alluring chiffons, transparent
necks and hobble skirts. Also, the immense
hat will be seen no more, bangles and ear-
rings will be disqualified, and puffed hair,
high heels and buckled shoes be considered
a sort of bid for dismissal. Presumably
these vanities are considered to be destruc-
tive to the working capacity of the male
staff, and the emotions of their female rela-
tives. As a general rule, the sniffs of the
boss’s consort, the manager’s wife, and the
head clerk’s missus when visiting the office
are quite undeserved. The boss furtively
curses the irritating jingle of his steno-
grapher-queen’s bracelets (which he did not
give her), and wishes she would pay less
attention to her hair and more to her work ;
the oueen herself is glad to get out of his
dejir. sing company: the his last
letter is dictated; and the staff, having had
various rows with her, and knowing her as
well as if she was sister to all of them,
scoffs at her best clothes, and wonders idly
who her bloque is. Once in a thousand
times an unmarried clerk offers her his name
and half his salary. Then she becomes one
of the office wives, and, on her occasional
visits, frowns Jin a qurious, disapproving way
at the bent head a fid blouse-buttons of the
new girl. Women' are suspicious creatures.
t
A country club will presently be batched
at Gisborne, to serve as an out-of-town ren-
dezvous for motorists and golfers. The
younger set are objecting to the chosen situ-
ation, on the ground that there are no nice
walks in the vicinity. The objection, how-
ever, has been turned down, as the place is
intended purely as an amusement depot, and
not as an engagement ground. A man will
be able to take his missus to the club, and
the missus everywhere is mightily pleased
about it. But the innovation is regarded
dubiously by a number of male brutes. Still,
in the matter of the membership list, the
men are the more tolerant; it is the women
who are lodging protests by the dozen
against the admittance of the other cat. The
name of Linlithgow has been written on the
scroll of patrons. I believe the locality lin-
gers fondly in his memory on account of a
fall down a dam.
It is about time the white nations fixed
up a firm understanding to discourage the
occasional nigger potentate who leaves his
native swamp and goes travelling in search
of a white wife to boss his harem. A coal-
black East African prince is now strolling
through America, accompanied by body-
guard, valet and interpreter, publishing the
specifications of the lady he desires. In a
country which knows and dislikes unfried
niggers, he is liable to need his bodyguard
at any moment. But a lot of women, from
star actresses downwards, suffer from
hysterics, so the rich savage should be firmly
repressed. An interesting sidelignt on this
Love’s pilgrimage is that it apparently did
not include the Fatherland, though it ex-
tended over England and France. I don’t
know whether he was discouraged by the
looks of the German girls or of the German
Government. More likely to be the latter
than the former.
Ever since the brief, original cable came
through, I have been waiting patiently for
some further particulars about the escape
of that foreign baroness from a lunatic asy-
lum by means of an air balloon —presumably
one of the hot-air variety used by the para-
chutist showman. Compared to a balloon,
an elephant is an easy thing to smuggle and
conceal; consequently, I cannot understand
how the baroness managed things. Even
supposing that it was carted into the asy-
lum grounds for her, inflating a gasbag as big
as a suburban church is one of the most
troublesome jobs possible; and holding it
whilst in process of inflation generally pro-
vides occupation for a wide circle of helpers.
Then a balloon in the air with someone
hanging to it is always liable to attract
attention; and if the attached passenger is
suspected of being a lunatic, or if the bag
floats out of a place where lunatics are
numerous, the amount, of interest excited is
likely to be stupendous. Anyhow, the fact
that a lady goes up attached to a balloon is
a good indication that she is not a common
groundling; and is, therefore, worth arrest-
ing or interviewing immediately she drops
back to earth. I want the particulars of
that escape story more than a new race hat
—and that is saying a heap.
Yours affectionately,
JONANNA.


THORNE’S WHISKY
66
Old Highland Malt.”
“O.H.M.”—The three initial letters incorporated in the full
title of “Thorne’s Whisky—well describe this splendid spirit.”
It is “Old”—patiently aged and matured. It is “Highland”—a
worthy product of Glenlivet, the traditional home of true Scotch
Whisky. It is a line “Malt” Whisky —pure, wholesome, round, and
full of that delicious flavor which has come to be known as
THORNE FLAVOR.”
Offer it to your friends! It is the very Spirit of Hospitality.
The qualities which the man of taste expects in Fine Scotch
Whisky he finds in “Thorne’s.” This excellent spirit has achieved,
during 80 years, a splendid reputation—a reputation which every
bottle serves to strengthen and enhance. The connoisseur de-
clares “Thorne’s”
INCOMPARABLE.
\
*
Wit
x
-X
\ w
A
-ocarli? ® Ifc ■
wm
pm
M
tut**
r. i/
asm/
x
■J*,
\
■ Supplied |i
• TO THE ■ m
House ofCommons
R.Thorne & Sons. Limited
• Greemock Oisti llery
Li««Houst ToothjjiR.UWDOW.EC
TpiADE jfIRCTfeL CsTAOLISMtD
HARKaEIIHI 1831.
1 m
m wr.
mm
■tom
: smm
v • mmm
rmm
w wm mi
Ml
F i ; / f
P
£ i'i
fIMIX
f? A
p- '.f |
' • . . • ; -• . S


LAGER
You > should be interested in good
Lag6r only. “Girl” Brand is
THE FINEST BEER IMPORTED
/;
!L>
s
tow*
w^-
V
I
r
mu
W
m
m
The
Present Problem
Solved
You can make selection in your own
home in comfort from our
XMAS
TOY & GIFT BOOK
Let us send you a copy —Free—To-day
Fill in this Coupon:
Name
Address
FINNEY’S
THE DRAPERS OF QUEENSLAND.
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
Governor Macgregor, on presenting a pic-
ture of certain royalties to a State school:—
■ There were some curious stories connected witli
the name of Queen Victoria. When she was pre-
sented for baptism the Emperor of Russia undertook
to be sponsor, and made a condition that if he
were to be godfather the child should be called Alex-
andnna, and she was so baptised. The Regent, after-
wards George IV., then suggested the name Victoria
should be added. They would see that the latter
name was continued down in the royal family, and
the young lady they noticed on the picture was
named Victoria Alexandrina Alice Marv The
name selected for her was Mary, so they would
know her as the Princess Mary. He did not know
how far they were taught history in the schools, but
it was an important study. .. .
Most important, in fact. Indeed, one doesn’t
know how Young Australia can possibly
expect to push, along in the world without
giving grave consideration to such tremem
dous matters as those kindly mentioned by
his Excellency.
C. G. Corten, who died the other day in
Brisbane, was’ something of a pioneer. * He
didn’t arrive with the first ship, or fight at
Eureka, or dig the first nugget at Gympie,
but shortly after he arrived in Queensland
from Cape Colony in 1875 he fixed upon
Cawarral, which leans up against Rock-
hampton, and grew tobacco. He erected
drying rooms, and Jiis first harvest yielded
him five tons of finished “smoke.” A
tobacco factory was a curio in those days,
and men went far out of their way to “see it.
Since then, the district has grown back-
wards, and now it hasn’t any factory at
all. Later, Corten tried the same business
at Toowoomba, and finally retired to while
away his time in inventing things. The
market has one or two of liis ideas about
its counters now. It would have had an-
other. only Corten died and left the job
unfinished.
A TWINGE IN HIS SOUTH-EAST
TENTACLE.
Capital was so sensitive that it did not matter
what part of the world abused its rights, a feeling of
insecurity immediately followed. —Solemn warning of
a returned Sydneyite from Europe.
Times have changed, and archbishops have
changed with them. His Grace of Brisbane
lately acted as a sort of spruiker for an
impending tea-meeting, holding forth as fol-
lows : “This will be a real knife and fork
meal—not a sandwich and sausage roll
affair.”
Charming extract from the report of Gov-
ernment Analyst Henderson: —
Out of two million gallons of (alleged) milk sup-
plied annually to Brisbane and suburbs, 62,400 gal-
lons were water of a dubious quality. With sd. per
quart as the average price, this represents £ 5200
paid by the public for water, of which less than
one-twelfth was recovered in fines.... Not only is
the lacteal fluid poisoned with dirty water, but the
legally “pure” milk is itself dirty enough to cause
a large loss of infant life much larger than the loss
caused by mere adulteration.
You have at least this choice in Brisbane:
you can either let your baby be poisoned
by dirty adulterated milk, or by dirty non-
adulterated milk. In the former case, you
buy water for milk; in the latter, you pur-
chase many more disease germs and a higher
rate of mortality. On the whole, the dis-
graceful case seems to pan out in favor of
the adulterated article.
ARTHUR MORGAN, Lieutenant-Governor
and President of Leg. Council (Q.).
Tom Welsby, M.L.A., who is a brewery
chairman among a, host of other things,
wants to make Prohibition prohibit, or else
have the thing thrown' overboard as a fraud.
“Prohibition areas” were proposed in the
new Liquor Bill; and when Welsby couldn’t
block them, he moved that, when such an
area was established by vote, nobody should
be allowed to therein “make, brew, distil,
import, carry, keep,Jhave possession of, con-
sume, buy, deliver, sell, supply, barter or
otherwise dispose of any liquor.” But Digby
Denham wasn’t carrying things to that logi-
cal conclusion; so his Home Secretary threw
it out with a plaintive appeal to the brewery
chairman to be serious.
With the loss of Port Curtis the Queens-
land Labor party comes down to 26 in a
House of 72, thus giving Denham a clear
majority of 20 as against eight in the pre-
ceding Parliament. Of course, a party that
is so confident of its hold on the country
that it can afford to get rid pf 25 of its
members at various times will view the
tripling of the Conservative majority with
perfect equanimity. Probably, also, the next
general election will be ushered in by a
fresh general strike, ,to the great joy of the
intransigent wing of Labor and the lively
exultation of the lurking Liberals.
A Criminal Appeal Bill is on its way
through the Bananaland Legislature. Like
the N. S. Wales meastire, it is closely
modelled on the Act which has been such
a success in the Cold Land. Accused will
have the right to appeal on a question of
law. or of fact, or of 'mixed law and fact—
subject, of course, to the Court granting
him permission. The water in the beer, as
one might say, from the bona-fide criminal’s
standpoint, is that, as a result of appealing,
he is as liable to have his*sentence increased
as he is to have it lessened or wiped out
altogether. The experience of Britain goes
to show that Hell hath no fury like the
malefactor who has had his demand for a
rebate of sentence not merelv scorneu, but
met with the cruel words: “Take 18 months
extra for luck.”
Gypsy Blood.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The long white road is calling me,
The plains and uplands green,
The open, lawless sky o’erliead.
The distant silver sheen.
The old wild life is wooing me,
And all my pulses set —
Hot tides at flood —to those far fields
Of freedom and regret.
With soft, kind arms you draw me near;
White love, your eyes are blue,
And to the dark of mine they ask.
Were all our vows untrue?
Ah, vain, that look of sad reproach,
You know, e’er we were wed,
The reckless gypsy in my blood
Slumbered, but was not dead.
With passion’s strength you hold me fast,
Your dear eyes wild with pain,
While, through the world a vagrant wind
Whistles its mad refrain.
It calls me like a living thing,
Its songs my senses load.
Oh, hold me, stay my feet, dear God—
They’re aching for the road !
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 9,. 1912.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—-
Wulliam Macgreegor, locum tenens for
George V., entertained the University pro-
fessors and Mrs. professors, plus an un-
limited quantity of student, at Fernberg
yesterday as a sort of thanksgiving service
on the close of term. A heavy thunderstorm
won the tennis games, so the majority of the
guests turned to billiards, boiled tea, cigars,
scandal and cakes and ale generally. It
was a pleasant, homely afternoon, and the
bright, smiling countenances of aide Foxton
and secretary Bytli were like the twin
moons that light Queen Frivol’s throne in
Paradise.
The races on Saturday attracted large
flocks of the fluttering Gamble Moth to the
Flame of Chance, and great was the scorch-
ing of financial wings. One well-known
Society butterfly was perfectly white-hot.
She has more than a passing interest in a
speedy animal, and, on “information from
the stable,” scurried round the lawn putting
her pals wise to the trainer’s alleged state-
ment that the gee-gee hadn’t a whatsitsname
chance. And how did the band play when
the brute romped home first!
Morag Jackson, a daughter of the well-
known medical Jackson, has acceded to the
matrimonial request (by cable) of Claude
Roe, who is at present at Oxford. The
plucky man is a son of the present Director
of Education, and erstwhile head of the
Brisbane Boys’ Grammar School.
Mary Proctor, the little astronomer-lady,
who gives a lecture here next Wednesday,
is making hosts of friends. She lunched
with the Macgregor chieftain on 'Tuesday,
and good impressions were apparently
mutual. The Chiel will preside at her
lecture.
The Muffs, an amateur dramatic club,
have taken the plunge into professionalism.
With Walter Tliurlow as ringleader, they
appeared as “Black and White Pierrots,” on
Guy Fawkes night. It was a reasonably
good show, which is no faint praise in these
days of stage duffers.
At Lylia Fegan’s concert in the- South
Brisbane Technical College Hall last Tues-
day, most of the musically-inclined of Bris-
bane were congregated. The overcrowding was
due to a rumor (which proved to be correct)
that the lady would play Romeo to Miss
Alice Crowther’s Juliet. Later in the even-
ing, Miss Fegan resumed feminine garb (or
some of it), and became Cleopatra. There
wasn’t any Antony, but there were eight
maids-in-waiting. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson (ex-
quisitely frocked and in perfect voice),
Mr. W. Crisp, and Mr. W. E. Sclilusener
were also in the programme; and Miss
Lilian Clancey coaxed accompaniments
from the piano.
Dr. Lilian Cooper and Miss Bedford gave
addresses to a packed meeting of the Na-
tional Council of Women last night. The
Dr.-lady is hot and strong on the suffragette
question, having been, inoculated while in
England, and the conclusion she arrives at
is that the militant window-wallopers and
disorderly shriekers should be given the
rights they demand. For myself, Thargo-
mindah, I’d sooner stick to a woman’s sure
privileges than chance woman’s doubtful
rights. I don’t know that we’d like them
when we got them. All the same, Miss
Cooper’s paper was interesting and clever.
Miss Bedford described institutions she had
noticed in her travels which might be of
benefit in Australia. The Women’s Ex-
change, in Sap Francisco, which gives edu-
cated women d chance of earning their own
crust and butter, and city playgrounds for
jthe kiddies, were the main contents of her
box of observations.
Willard House, where the National Coun-
cil of Women holds its meetings, is just
opposite the Anglican Cathedral, and last
night was the night for the bellringers to
practice. They didn’t overlook it. Three
times the lecturer was obliged to cease read-
ing her paper, and two deputations were
chased into the night, one to grapple with
the bell nuisance, and the other to beg, bor-
row or steal another hall. The latter p t arty
was eventually successful, but by the time
it returned the jangling of the bells was a
curse of the past, so the meeting was not
compelled to go elsewhere to deliberate on
how the country is to be Saved.
Mr. and Mrs. Penleigh Boyd, who are
honeymooning in Italy, will most likely re-
turn to Australia next April. Mrs. Phillips
Fox, who chaperoned Miss Anderson before
her marriage, had a portrait of Penleigh
Boyd in the Paris (Autumn) Salon.
Major Tuson, son of an old officer of the
Union Bank in Queensland, was married in.
London lately to the widow Lowe, the daugh-
ter of a family which wears a hyphen half-
way through its name. The Tusons are still
represented hereabouts by the banker’s
widow, who owns quite her share of this little
bit of Australia, majah is, or was, in
the 16th Lancers.
Yours in a scatter of ink,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Riders of locally-assqinbled cycles, built of the
famous B.S.A. fittings, have again practically swept
the board in the big Australasian road races held
this season. They secured fastest times and cham-
pionships each in the Beverley-Perth (116 miles),
.E. M. Gray; Victorian Gycle Traders’ (100 miles),
G. W. Bell; Goulburn-Sydney (131 miles), A. C.
Walcott ; Burra-Adelaide (110 miles), Don Kirkham ;
Dunlop Gold Oup race (116 miles), 0. Snell; and
Timaru-CHristchurch (112 miles), H. Henderson.
They also secured first, with one exception, second
and third, and the bulk of the specials in each race.
Altogether, B.S.A. riders won prizes value over
£lOOO in the above races alone, wonderful testimony
to the speed qualities and staunchness of their
mounts.*
Mr. A. G. Hales was born in Australia in 1860,
but has lived for a great many years in England,
where he is well known on account of the bril-
liant work lie did as War Correspondent for the
London Daily News in South Africa, Macedonia,
and during the Russo-Japanese War. He has lec-
tured throughout England, America, South Africa and
Australia. Besides being a poet and a novelist, Mr.
Hales has followed mining for years, and has trav-
elled extensively in search of sport and adventure.
Few brain workers have led such an active and
strenuous life, and it is therefore interesting to
learn that Mr. Hales is a great admirer of the well-
known tonic food, Sanatogen. He writes: “I have
used Sanatogen and find myself considerably im-
proved in general health. I am working late and
long under considerable pressure, and find that my
brain benefits by every tin of this nerve tonic that I
take; it revitalises a man and is not a drug. No
brain worker should be without it.”*
An official return just tabled shows that
the Queensland Government spent £5520
last year on lawyers, of which sum A.-G.
Tom O’Sullivan received £llO7 and J. W.
Blair £257 —quite a fair cut for two
eminent legislators.' Verily, loyalty brings
its own reward.
THE SOUL OF WIT.
“ What is the best after-dinner speech you ever
heard, John? ”
“ Allow me, I’ll pay.’”
The Brisbane Telegraph, generally re-
puted to be an all-wool Wowser organ, is
exceedingly bitter against the Denham Gov-
ernment’s Liquor Bill—the pet measure of
Brisbane Wesleyanism. The Telegraph
urges a broad view and an ignoring of fad-
dists, an attitude which precisely corres-
ponds with that of Mr. Bung himself. Beer
has no lack of potent missionaries.
Rockhampton had a rather unique gath-
ering the other day, when an enthusiast —
Andrew Small, of Clermont —mustered his
shipmates of the Eutopia. The Eutopia
was the first immigrant ship to call direct to
Keppel Bay. where in November, 1862 —50
years ago—it landed 324 new-cliums. After
a lapse of half a century, 23 of these cld
inhabitants gathered and told each other
what gay young dogs they once were. By
the way, the Eutopia was beaten out to
Central Queensland parts by the Persia,
which arrived in 1861 with 454 “chummies”
aboard. It, however, went to Port Curtis.
Rockhampton thereupon petitioned vigor-
ously, and during the next half-hundred
years most things have come its way instead
of going to the rival, Gladstone.
“Hugh Enden” discovers a family vault:
Sixty years ago there was a place in Central
Queensland called Gladstone. It consisted of 30
men, a dozen or so women, a few cows, a fine, harbor
and a dog. The place is still there, with its general
features unchanged, though a few graves adorn its
cemetery and Mary has ceased to call the cattle home
from across the salt-pans. The dog is dead also.
There was a street in Gladstone called Gondoon-
street. With a few shops and half a dozen groggeries
it’s the old place still. But its name has changed.
It is now Gonbung-street.
Gladstone will always be the same. The dead hand
holds it tight. Trade is dead, the water in its harbor
is dead. Now and again the hearse rattles over its
cobbles to the cemetery. Nothing else moves.
The North Coast railway runs through the town,
and every train brings a load of people who. when
they gaze on the ruin and think what it might have
been, shed bucketsful of salt tears. The Government
provides the buckets.


• - •*
''. * . -
./ ■
.. :
'
wk' • *
im
m
ffi r \l
-
.
:ST?
mm
m
SivC^
»rm
m
Mi
mm
- .\v'-
1*
——
•i-m
«8
?
-
I 1
' -
: : . 'V:
i.’J
rj
-
m
m
k
Hi
wm
Wj
m
\
.: ■ ■=
/ S
»■>
D
1 . iii! i
mmmm
D )! D
.
A
- r :• «*
*'*£ ' > : \ rim
■Hg
wmmm
wMsßmSmm
<H£BESr
tm
>
111
m
■
I! fill
litas
mmss
M
mm
m
ißlill
SSli*
mrnm
mm
•■, :
HU
lipplllsK
■HM I
' ..* ov. ' „
/
mm
m
miMrn-'. :
astfe&jJßv-*•.•-. •«• • -‘- j
'
.
'
Si!
liillfl
o
mm
: L
igpiey
km ....!
0
(S 3
; ' ■
K: /■*■*, _
■
ilßi
A
-
rf • ' , ,«
, . .•
■4i
\
»>/
I
W
'//,
, -
n
©
V
: ■
•~Z-
,?"
T*
Mgk JKiXSSSm
ill
llfSlll
m
mm
f.
di
...
fDE A L
A fsl C?
INDISPENSIBLE
f 0 R
PICNIC PARTIES
CAMPING
BOATING •'••••
FISHING • E—• •
AND
THE HO 1E


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS.
O/Vf CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 11l
William Street.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wir
eless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing ovcrv fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE' ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi.ach, Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DANTES, Secretary.
of [forth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and iieserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
.1. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager,
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, l’hilp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. It. LOVE.
Bankers: TIIE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA",
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED.. £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir Wii.i.iam P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Si.y, Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. 11.
Mvi.es, Esq. ; Make Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq ; Frank N. Yauwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act ISG3.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO.OOO o n
Capital Paid Up . . . . .. 413,590 14 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Director's —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V-. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
vears ar.d over, at the rate of 4J per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland,
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance Cua.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST < nvrent Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E D’Arcy, J hr M. -lingers.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Eire, accident, wo-km en’S com-
pensation. PUBLIC BISK. BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage, and Full Particulars apply to —
LOJTMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle :
TITOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
gank of |)biu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock . . . . . . £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Cieat Uri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking .business.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINCj^MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE .
Steamer. |Tons [ Oonnnanrier. |Leave Sydney.
•THEMISTOCLES..jII,4OOIDoug-las, R.N.R.j Nov. 10
MARATHON .. j 8,000 P. J. Collins .. Dec. 14
DEMOSTHENES..|II.4OO|A. Robb ..| Jan. 11
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£110 (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable with Holt’s
Blue Funnel Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and O. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. &c.. on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —•
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE everv Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
For ADELAIDE, ALBANY and FREMANTLE, s.s.
RIVERINA, from Sydney, Saturday, November
16 ; from Melbourne, Wednesday, November 20.
Regular Passenger and Cargo 'Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle) etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to three months, and
costing £5 to £25.
h
gfh
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up .Capital -
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
The Lion. Sir Nonnantl MacLaurin, lit.,
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,035,000
£3,000,000
Richard Biimie, Esq.
£8,085,000
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, Ivt., JI.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheard “Edgediff Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund .. . • 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 .0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq.. .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Rater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birclxin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener;
Branches throughout the State cf New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).
. £538,307
. 159,054
76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ‘
(Jen Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
'fhe Colonial Mutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.C., M.L.C.. Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. IIOSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “Pearl of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any point in
the UNITED STATES or CANADA.
ROUND THE WORLD TOURS,
First and Second Class.
ROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning
from Vancouver via Honolulu, Suva and
Auckland, or via the Orient.
STEAMERS SAIL—
MOANA, AORANGI, TAHITI,
NOV. 30. DEC. 28, JAN. 25.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
IIOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITEK),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE I
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS I
ALBANY j
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports. j
T.S.S. Warilda (7713 Cons),
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, November
23, carrying Ist and
2nd Saloon and Steer-
age Passengers. Also
December 21.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Torts North to Oairn
S.S. Grantala, Nov. 16.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 23.
S.S. Marloo, Nov. 30.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other infcer-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Ollice.
G. S. YUILL. Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN R.M. LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
5 Displacement, tons—Niagara, 20,000 ; Makura, 12,200 ;
Zealandia, Mamma, 10,500.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
11th DECEMBER
17th DECEMBER
24th DECEMBER
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE .
12,600 Tons. T. PRISKE, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
BRISBANE .. sth DECEMBER
SYDNEY ..
MELBOURNE ..
ADELAIDE
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
(4-berth.) (2-berth.)
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE, leaving Sydney 22nd December.
T.S.S. SUFFOLK, leaving Sydney, 21st January.
ALL FITTED AA r ITH WIRELESS.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydfoev and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, & CO., Melbourne
and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
:TEN DAYS TO LONDON
FROM SAN FRANCISCO.
Sydney to San Francisco in 19 Days.
Via Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu. Saves 3000
miles ocean travel. Includes: South Sea Islands,
Yosemite Valley, Rocky Mountains, Grand Canyon,
Niagara Falls, etc.
ROUND AVORLD TICKETS issued to return by
all Suez and Cape Lines. Round Pacific Tickets,
Covering China, Japan, America, and Islands, at
Low Rates. For Rates of Passage and Freight apply
OCEANIC STEAM SHIP CO.,
14 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel., 2282 City.
AU.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Service
To Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
By the Up-to-date Steamships
“ICANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
(Fitted with AVireless.)
‘•KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
(Fitted with AVireless.)
“ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
(Fitted with AA’ireless.)
“ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
“WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
And other well-known Steamers, fitted with all
conveniences for the comfort of passengers.
Tickets interchangeable with other Inter-State
Companies. , .
Also First-Class Return Tickets to Melbourne, Ade-
ude and Brisbane available for return journey by
tail under certain conditions.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers.
Further information on application to- —
URNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents. 11 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
JOLOIIED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted fre 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.


'EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
McLucas Gold Mines
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL £lO,OOO in 40,000 Shares of ss.
each, of which 8000 Shares are Fully Paid
Up and 32,000 Shares are Contributing, pay-
able Gd. per Share on Application, the bal-
ance of 4s. Gd. is payable by way of calls as
may be required, but not to exceed Two
Pence per Share per month.
McLUCAS GOLD MINES (locally
known as Blaekfellow Reef) are situated at
the head of Pikes Creek, 25 miles N.W. from
Dalveen Railway Station, containing 20
acres leasehold. Crushings have given as
high as Boz. per ton, with an average of
3oz. Bdwt. for 200 tons. This is
verified by recent Assays giving Boz. Bdwt.
per ton. About 3000 tons mixed quartz have
been raised and stacked at the mine. A
Report and Survey, by Mr. F. W. Thomson.
Mining Surveyor and Engineer, is attached
to the Prospectus obtainable from members
of Stock Exchanges, or E. Steele, Secretary
pro tem., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. The
Provisional Directors are: Messrs. D.
Sheahan, Sen., Stanthorpe ; and G. Critten-
den, R. Rosenstengel, J. Sunderland, H. C.
Pointer and G. Feldmann, of Toowoomba.
Stock Saddle
£5 15s.
Here’s an opportunity of securing a ser-
viceable Stock Saddle at a reasonable price.
Many saddles are made to selh —ours, are built
to give long-wearing service and comfort.
When you consider that we prepare the
Leather at our own Tanneries, and the
Saddles are made under our personal super-
vis'on—we can guarantee satisfaction.
Our Illustration is made on the best-
quality English, hand-made tree, Hand Sewn
Throughout, . with 5-inch knee pad and
solid leather point to panel. Mounted with
4 bar irons. Strong Stirrup Leathers, Sur-
cingle and Crupper.
Write for our illustrated catalogue—it’s
free.
L. Uhl & Sons Ltd.,
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
HAVE YOU A BAD LEG
with Wounds that discharge or otherwise,
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison which
defies all the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, or there
may be wounds; the disease, if allowed to
continue, will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hos-
pitals, and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not, for I can cure you. I do not say per-
haps, but I will. Because others have failed
is no reason I should. Send to the Drug
Stores for a box of
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS
which has never failed to cure the worst
cases of Bad Legs, Ulcerated Joints, Poisoned
Hands, Injured Knees, Bites, Carbuncles,
etc. Prepared by ALBERT, Albert House,
73 Farringdon Street, London, England.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED
BY SUBSCRIPTION,
Albert E. Church’s Monumental Work on
Australian Unification
(The Policy of the Young Australia National Party).
The Work will contain copies of
“Proposed New Constitution for Australia.”
“Swiss Constitution.”
“South African Constitution.”
“American Constitution.”
“Canadian Constitution.”
And the great English Acts: —
“Magna Charta,” “Bill of Rights,”
“Act of Settlement,” and “Habeas Corpus”
(Very difficult to obtain elsewhere).
Printed in good Type on First-class paper. Bvo. p.p.
400. First Edition of 1000 Copies only.
PRICE 2/6 NET. POST FREE, 3/3.
Copies proposed “Australian Constitution,” 6d. each.
Send Remittances Direct.
To ALBERT E. CHURCH,
c/o THE AUSTRALIAN PAPER COMPANY,
93 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
)t »neA tr*
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three Per Cent, per annum allowed on all Deposits irp to £3OO.
throughout practically the whole of Victoria, MELBOURNE AGENCY : 317 COLLINS STREET.
Queensland and Northern Territory.
Melbourne, 25th October, 1912. DENISON AIIELER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the proeess of initial development, Queensland
oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
THE REMEDY FOR ALL PEN TROUBLE BUY
Waterman’s
\
ilgpFen
THE SIMPLEST AND THE MOST EFFICIENT.
THE FIRST OPEN-AIR
ROOF GARDEN
in the Commonwealth of Australia has now been opened by
MR. G. MATOOREKOS,
Proprietor of the well-known Cafe, 68 and 70 Swanston Street, and Queen’s
Walk, near Collins Street, Melbourne,
For Afternoon Tea, Dinner and Supper.
Q. MATOOREKOS, Proprietor.
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
WEDGE-CLIPS AND LOOPS MAY BE USED ON THE SAME DROPPER.
CHEAPEST DROPPER ON THE MARKET.
If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to—
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Leicester & Queensberry Streets, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
BEWARE
OF
DROPPERS
weakened by holes or cut-out slots
THEY SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
J- J l_
Advice Free by our
Veterinary Surgeon.
HORSE 8 CATTLE
DRENCHING BIT.
Sharpe’s, English Pattern.
Nickel-plated, with light detachable funnel having
lid to top and stop cock at base ; stout leather bridle,
cotton rope.
Improved mouthpiece; as diagram.
POST FREE 18/6 Anywhere.
Other kinds at 7/3 & 16/=- post free.
WRITE FOR VET AND KNIFE LIST.
SHARPE & SHARPE,
18 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
L
J. f
, ■■■
avmnh
I ifSa
uNM
■
H
mm
sfl
t':
■ V-Yv :
Lis
jjMßfll Jj
m
WEsm
■*
t:
i
111
ito'lli
alnlUiaf®
BW
■
nPHUft
-v.
■
■■
m
1
r :: i
:
«2W
HEW
UOM fjVION
The “RINGER”^
DOMINION y
ACGORDEON
For the Dance, the
Picnic, and the Camp,
the “Ringer” Model
IS THE ONE
The brass trumpets of the “Ringer”
are a feature found in no other, and
they help to give it that wonderful tone
that has made it such a favorite
The “Ringer” as illustrated 23/-
„ „ with Steel Reeds 28/-
„ larger model 29/-
~ larger model Steel Reeds
in wood case with lock 4 j/-
Ask for our illustrated catalogue of Dom-
inion Accordeons, and name of nearest
agent.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Summer
Suits.
We are showing
a very tasteful
range of Suitings
for this Summer,
and in cases
where customers
cannot call in,
will post samples
on application*
gf
DAVID BRAHAM S CO.,
Tailors and Costumers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite “Evening News.”)
UNCLAIMED MONEY& PROPERTY.
DOUG-AL’S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac.. Ac., price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers,Melbourne.
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Hougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
DOUCAL& C0.,151-STRAND, LONDON, ENGLAND.
( Ksta.blifther! nv'r fiO Vprirs.)
Box 1281, G.P.0., SIDNEY.
IS fii’a’it! ff R *•


PRIVATE SUBDIVISIONS. SALE
To FARMERS, GRAZIERS, WHEAT-
GROWERS, and OTHERS.
“CARUMBI ESTATE,”
About 30,000 ACRES of First-class
MIXED FARMING, WHEAT, and
SHEEP Country.
In Farms From About
300 to 800 Acres,
ON LONG TERMS OF TEN YEARS.
WS. KEAST, Auctioneers, 608-10
• Collins Street, Melbourne, have
received instructions from the vendors,
to
SUBDIVIDE and SELL PRIVATELY,
THAT MAGNIFICENT PROPERTY,
“CARUMBI ESTATE,”
Containing 30,000 ACRES, situated
in the FAMOUS BLAND COUN-
TRY, on the new line of railway
from STOCKINBINGAL t o
FORBES, and close to the main
line between SYDNEY and MEL-
BOURNE.
The property consists of fine
MIXED FARMING, WHEAT
and LAMB-RAISING country,
subdivided into fifty-four farms,
from about 300 to 800 acres (the
homestead with about 3000
acres). The whole of the coun-
try is suitable for wheat, oats,
and lucerne, and 200 acres of
well-established lucerne is now
growing without irrigation.
IMPROVEMENTS.
The estate is in perfect order, and about 20,000
acres have been grubbed lOin. deep, and cleared
ready for the set plough. Sufficient timber and fire-
wood have been left on each block. About 600 acres
of pine have been left on the property to provide
timber for building purposes, and arrangements can
be made with the vendors accordingly.
FENCING.
The fencing is all in first-class order. Most of the
subdivisional fencing is new. Only the best materials
and netting have been used; and all posts and
strainers and gate-posts are sunk to exceptional
depths. Inspection will prove this, and will show
that most of the farms are* already fenced.
WATER.
It is certainly one of the very best watered proper-
ties in New South Wales. In addition to the Bland
River, the Narraburra Creek, and other creeks, there
are, perhaps, more tanks than on any similar
property. Most of these tanks are new, and their
holding capacity undoubted. The capacity runs up
to over 10,000 yards, and provision for water is
made on each farm now offered.
HOMESTEAD BLOCK, 3000 ACRES.
Special attention of stud breeders and others is
drawn to this. The improvements are nearly all
new, and constructed of brick. They are too numer-
ous to detail here, but mention may be made of the
commodious ten-roomed residence with exceptionally
wide verandahs. Large brick office and store, the
convenient and well-planned men’s quarters (also in
brick), machinery-shed, stables, stock yards, wool-
shed (with large brick dip), shearers’ quarters, gar-
dener’s cottage (brick), and piggeries.
REMARKS.
The timber is principally box and pine, and out
of the whole estate it is estimated that only about
200 acres are unsuitable for farming. The climate
is salubrious, soil is first-class, and everything is in
perfect order. The estate has been so subdivided as
to give a chance to every class of settler, and the
desire of the owners is to make it one of th<\ best
settlements in New South Wales.
LIBERAL TERMS, of £1 per acre down, and bal-
ance up to TEN YEARS.
Further particulars apply
W. S. KEAST, auctioneers, 608-10 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or
Our representative, D. THOMPSON, Carumbi Es-
tate, Stockinbingal, N.S.W., who is on the Coota-
rnundra and Stockinbingal Telephone Exchange.
Solicitors—Messrs. Williams and Matthews, Queen
Street, Melbourne.
Government Notices.
Tubular Iron or Steel Telegraph Poles,
Copper Wire, etc., for Kalgoorlie-
Port Augusta Railway.
IT is notified that the time for receipt of
tenders for the above supplies has been
extended to January 8, 1913.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister for Home Affairs.
Missing: Friends.
D OBERT GRAYSON (otherwise Frederick Wilson
1 ' or Gregory), formerly of Manchester, England,
and last heard of in Sydney about 10 years ago, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, communicate with
“Executor,” c/o Gordon and Gotch, Sydney. Some-
thing to his advantage.
ELSWORTH, HARRY A.
LATE of Brisbane, and formerly of Bal-
larat. Left Brisbane 1910. Heard of
at'Bourke (N.S.W.) December, 1911. Sup-
posed to be at Roma or Charlesville districts
with bore contractor early 1912. Write at
once. MOST IMPORTANT. Or anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communi-
cate with FRED ELSWORTH, c/o Burton
and Co., Ltd., Auctioneers, Toowoomba
(Q.).
IF JOHN GRIFFEN, formerly of Dune-
din, New Zealand, and more recently be-
lieved to have been at Longreach and Jun-
dah, Queensland, will communicate with the
Public Trustee, New Zealand, he will learn
of something to his advantage.
Any person having information concern-
ing the said John Griffen is kindly requested
to communicate same to the Public Trustee,
Wellington.
NOW EVERYBODY CAN LEARN TO SWIM
SWIMEESY BUOYS
bsolutely saf
FOB LEARNERS & SWIMMERS
34 Inches Across
h
WILI* SUPPORT A
CHILD OR
A 15 STONE MAN
Price 2/6, Posted Anywhere
ITIHE best of all Swimming devices • When not in use can bo
carried in the pocket like a handkerchief, yet will float a 16
Itone man. Expert Swimmers with the Swimeesy Bnoya can cover
long distances without fatigue, and
the; unpart such confidence in the
water that learners can soon swiio and
float without them The material
they are made of is very strong and
durable, the coloring is brighl and
attractive, and is guaranteed last and
washable. Printed directions
gh
Mr. F. F. Lehmann, Katyil, Vic., states
that about sixty persons learned to swim
in a few hours with his Swimeesy Buoys.
THE UMION GO. 299 Elizabeth St. .Melbourne
Legal Notices.
WILL OF ANDREW INKSTER, deceased, late of
Yodda Valley, Papua, and afterwards of Ingle-
burn, in the State of New South Wales. WHEREAS
by his Will dated the 15th day of November 1909
Andrew Inkster (otherwise known as Andrew L.
Inkster) who died on the twenty-eighth day of July
One thousand nine hundred and ten gave and be-
queathed all his estate to his mother sisters and
brother to be divided equally amongst those still
living. AND WHEREAS Letters of Administration
with the said Will annexed were granted to
FREDERICK WALLIN by the Supreme Court of
New South Wales in its Probate Jurisdiction on the
second day of August One thousand nine hundred and
eleven, NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
creditors and other persons having claims against the
estate of the said Andrew Inkster whether under the
said Will or otherwise are required to send in their
claims to the undersigned' on or before the thirty-
first day of March One thousand nine hundred and
thirteen in default whereof the said estate will be
distributed amongst the parties entitled thereto with-
out regard to any claims of which no notice has been
given.
WILLIAM ALFRED GILDER,
Proctor, 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N. S. Wales.
Business Announcements.
YOU HAVE SOMEONE HOME AT
CHRISTMAS that you cannot
send money to, but would like to make
a Christmas present.
Although so far away we can help you
as well as hundreds of others this season
by sending direct in your name to any
address you send.
We select any article for you and satisfy
sender and receiver by registering every
article at the Post Office and sending you
the receipt with invoice of the goods sent.
All British Manufacture and under retail
prices. Cigars, Cigarettes, Jewellery, Drap-
ery, Silverware, Games, Toys or any article
you mention can he got and sent direct with
no sea risk or loss or damage. Your in-
structions faithfully carried out to the last
penny of the cash you send us, whether jt
be shillings or pounds. Write now, there is
no time to spare to
A/’ u Ann Commercial Chambers,
• Cl IA t\D, Falmouth, Eng.
If this is no good to you show it to your
friend.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
*
I
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re-
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
cation. Only address
54 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Amusements.
Theatre royal,, Sydney.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
A PLAY FOR ALL CLASSES OF PLAYGOERS.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.’S
STUPENDOUS PRODUCTION of
General Lew Wallace’s Great Religious Romance,
JB E N H IT R.
(By arrangement with Messrs. Klaw and Erlanger.)
PLANS AT PALING’S.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd,
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50,
BIGGER AUDIENCES,
GREATER ENTHUSIASM THAN EVER.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
Attracting all Sydney to
THE QUAKER GIRL.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees: TALBOT LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE UNSEEN EYE.
Next Production
COMMENCING SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16. •
A WOMAN OE IMPULSE.
MADGE McINTOSH as LADY LANGFORD.'
PRICES : 4/-, 2/6 & 1/- Plans at Paling’s.
AT lONA L AMPHITHEAT RE. SYDNEY'!
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
MAUD FANNING, Australia’s Own Coon Impersonator.
HEDLEY & BARTLETT, THE MUSICAL MOKES,
High-class and Humorous Melodies & Ditties.
GUS HARRIS, Introducing New Chorus Songs.
BLANCHE CARELLI, the Australian Nightingale.
Brilliant and Continued Success of VIOLET BLACK.
ELLIOTT SISTERS, Graceful & Harmonious Dancers.
ARTHUR ELLIOTT, New Songs, New Gags.
D ELI* II I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING.
The Fascinating and Thrilling American Mining Drama,
AT CRIPPLE CREEK.
Interpreted bv the Full Strength of
GEORGE MARLOW’S' POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
Prices : 4/-, 3/-, 2/-& 1/- Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
II j; LYCEUM, S Y D N E \.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
QLACIARIUIir AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GIIOEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
r! EDWARD BRANSCOHIB E’S
FIVE COMPANIES, OF
1) A N D I E S.
EVERY EVENING.
OREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
PRINCESS COURT, ROCKHAMPTON, NIGHTLY.
RI ClvAlt D S’ TIVOLI THEATRE.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
TOM DAWSON. CRAWFORD & HOWARDE.
IiURNS & BENTLEY. CLAUDE LEPLASTRIER.
NELLA WEBB, the Incomparable American Disease.
count McDonald. vaude & verne.
DE BIERE, a Delightful Entertainment of all that is
Fascinating in Magic.
ALBERTO MARINI, Tenor. D’ARC’S MARIONETTES.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s & Theatre.
I’ K It A H O U S E, MELBOUR.V R.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
THE THREE SISTERS MACARTE, presenting their
Spectacular Scena, “ The Land of the Lotus.”
MISS FLORENCE BAINES, the Lancashire Comedienne.
BERT BILTON in his “Songs at the Piano.”
THE MAX FRANKLIN TROUPE, Wonderful
European Acrobats.
THOMAS BENTLEY, Dickensonian Sketch Artist.
TAYLOR & ARNOLD, Rag-time Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
T HEATItE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
First Production of
GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD
Presented by a Brilliant Band of Comedians.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
Reappearance of
W. ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in
THE SPAN OF LIFE
(By arrangement with Bland Holt).
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN'S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 16.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
in
The Sensational London Success,
THE GIRL WITHOUT A HOME.
Prices 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
FOR THE FIRST TIME HERE.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
NIGHTBIRDS.
Adapted by Gladys Unger from Strauss’s
“ Die Fledermaus.”
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
Direction amalgamated pictures
LTD,
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace,
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock,
3d., 6d. and ]/-
EVENING PRICES : 2/-, 1/6,1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH BROS’ GREATEST SHOW ON
EARTH.
LAST NIGHTS OF
NEW CIRCUS CO.,
WILD WEST, WILD AUSTRALIA
and
MENAGERIE.
In the
PLAZATORO, WIRTHS’ PARE.
Matinbes—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
BOX PLAN AT GLEN’S.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
UIEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE best
of ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL-
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the Worli>.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plant at Glen's.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vie
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, toj,
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. fid. to
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric
ether with the
2s. Plans at
Theatre Cafe.
What You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have something to
say worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”—William Ewart Gladstone.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
: of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at i he College or by letter.
gh
554 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Onoto
Fills Itself from Any Ink Supply
121-
g
With thank-
fulness our
hearts rejoice,
And we would
sing in
strident voice
The praises of
ONOTO.
Cannot Leak
‘ON A GOOD THING
Every man. woman and child should have an
Onoto Pen and use it. The Onoto'is the British
made Fountain Pen—that fills itself in a Hash
from any ink supply—that never leaks—that writes smoothly and speedily, and never splutters. The Onoto
can be obtained from all Stationers’, Jewellers’ and Stores, price 12/-. and in a variety of more elaborate
styles for presentation purposes. A Booklet about the various models free on application to Thos.
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 168 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian Representative, Norman
Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.— For those who require a larger pen with a very flexible nib, a special model—the
new G—has been put on the market. It is exceptional value for the money. Try this new Gat yo*u
stationer’*.
“THe Money
Maker,”
rn
* I
U
Sly,
mtt
mi
J
RE-M
We Are The People
for Picture Showmen.
Plants
IVlachines
Arc-lamps
Jets
Winders
Tanks
Saturators
Engines
Dynamos
Films
Slides
Searchlights
Etc., etc.
We are Sole Agents for the
SILENT EMPIRE
Complete Outfits with
Limelight Plant
£45.
Send for our Catalogue—FßEE.
JERDAN’S,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Victoria : 236 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of Che largest and mosc successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 34 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Riohardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
h
CHICAGO


the man of
MYSTERY
h i TMafa i •
(lw y ß - SPENCER-WALLIS, admittedly
the greatest Psychic of the day, is said
to have oyer 14,000 adherents, and his
lemarkahle course on Personal Magne-
usm is creating a deep impression in
thinking circles.
, Re . "ill devote the next ten days to
RR FE of charge, readers of
liie liulletin” interested in psychology.
All London is marvelling at a man whose
miraculous penetration is such that, given
tour or five lines of a person’s ordinary
Handwriting, he seems to know that man or
woman better than they do themselves. To-
day he places his astounding gift at your
disposal without exacting any fee, and if
you bear in mind how absolutely vital it is
tor your
FATE, FORTUNE, FUTURE,
that you should gain the wonderful know-
ledge of your hidden possibilities, you
wilt avail yourself without delay of this
?™, erous °fr er made for the benefit of Bul-
i.eiin readers. Hundreds owe their happi-
ness and success to Mr. Spencer-Wallis’s ad-
vme and guidance; he is constantly con-
society k' V l ß d ies and gentlemen in high
REMARKABLE EVIDENCE.
n.„. o' r , Blackburn.
Hear Sir—l have studied well your Analysis of
nprfprHv raCtCr ’ , aTld T l ' c, ° really believe that you are
tWvSo , correct - J. should indeed like to strengthen
these weaknesses which you have pointed out. Thank-
cerely,° E f °H klndness>—l remain, yours very sin-
Dear Mr. Spencer-Wallis,— In reply to youiMetter
toTd Ce Z ln uJ n H ™ ai : acter Study, I must say you have
qppm m tr V th In , ever .y detail of your study. I
fo u m -Yourrtndy" S R d B. r g °° d SinCe 1 C ° nSulted
in<p e thp M fr, Wa ni! S ~ l , am ™ receipt of yours* eneios-
rc comiikWv? araCter ' Anaiysis, which has taken
r ü by s ”T’. se ’ as one would think you
knew me all my lifetime.—Yours very sincerely, I
wh?ch r T muT 1 have received the Character "study,
which I think very wonderful. I would not have be-
lieved it possible that anyone that had not come
so trulTabont With , “ e COuld haVe to,d me
cerely, E. S? F 3 ° Wn charac teristics.—Yours sin-
Dear Mr. Wallis,—Thank you
onVv y ’nartlv Ved laS ' t Week I It: shows much that I was
only partly conscious of before in myself, and I
think you have given me a wonderfully true study
in many ways.—Yours very -truly, W. 11. y
A GENEROUS CONCESSION.
Mr Spencer-Wallis has offered to forego his usual
fee of one guinea, and help all those who consult
X t 0 this article free of charge. Those
stiim^= n i- aftord ’ and Wlsh to ’ ma -v enclose, five penny
stamps to cover secretaria l expenses. All you have
to do is to send either photograph or specimen of
handwriting—both, if you wish. Just keep tb vour
dSa r tion Writl ' l,g in order t 0 a hue
j mca an. Address your application (fully signed
\uth addressed return envelope enclosed, five
penny stamps) to Mr. Spencer-Wallis, 167 Douglas
Rooms, 31-32 Maiden Lane, London, W O g
HIS LATEST WORK.
win Pa nJesent m a' th p e p ad , vice ’ Mr ‘ Spencer-Wallis
Wk “The «?pwT P^ en ' tai ?: copy of his latest
4,,’ the Scientific Elimination of Failure” to ail
those who write to him within ten days It must
Upr 7 tmderstood, however, that those who write
later are not entitled to this additional present
“GOLCRYST”
IS
USEFUL
gfh
By purifying: the blood, GOLCRYST
mvigrorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and hannv
S™ LCK *P T CO " sists of Epsom Salts]
benna Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice
Is there a better’ medicine?
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Free sample
Co . o"’ B ° Ck * Tompsitt *
WHOLESALE AGENTS:—W.A Neale for,
stable and Co., Perth ; S.A./ “iilrks Chemists”’
NSW Colledge ’ Britt;
Co Sydney ’ 7 67 5 Australian Dni?
ASTHMA CURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN OIKABFTTFS
»jSBg&a«sa?as!!a»!»
There is no greater comfort
than an evening with an
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
'-the comfort of bright songs and music perfectly rendered; the comfort
of Amberol Records, playing four-and-one-half minutes instead of two;
Lite comfort of the permanent sapphire reproducing point that does away
gf
with constant needle-changing, and
the comfort of a subdued volume of
sound, that does not carry beyond
your own little family circle. The
wonderful, sensitive, wax cylinders,
the silent, long-running motor, the
long-playing Amberol Records, the
permanent sapphire reproducing
point, and the means of making
and reproducing your own records,
are all exclusive Edison Phonograph
features. Remember this when you
make your purchase.
Vou ought to have
an EDISON
PHONOGRAPH in
your home, and
you can have one at any price
you wish to pay from £3 to £5O.
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS are sold everywhere
in Australasia. Write to us direct for latest lists and name
and address of the nearest dealer.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.,
Dept. B (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
BOVRIL
by virtue of its body-building power
fortifies the system against the attacks
of illness.
By Appointment to
h
His Majesty the King.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS.
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Se/I on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.'s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
F»t-ize Medals.
fgh
Works: Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
| paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Pitman’s Commercial Encyclopaedia
and Dictionary of Business.
specialists, as contributors. Profusely illustrated. In 4 vols nn r<i h.
net (7/6 net per vol.) ; half-leather, 42/- net (10/6 net per vol.). 450 PP ‘ Crown 4to > Cloth 3 °/“
Complete prospects post free of all principal Sydney booksellers
Loader , SIR ISAAC PITMAN fc SONS. LTD., 1 E . c
Edited by J. A. SLATER, 8.A., LL.B.
(London), assisted by upwards of 50
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound mag-ni-
ne l, to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
a '" e - one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain oft' them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend . _
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever . you . wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
T' le price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also ail
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on i trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at, once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t deiay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —-Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign *s sent, you must register it.
o\<?
v\ 0 s>,
& i
i:i mfc? J 2
- J ry 0 9>. o'«
o-
A * A U
A
A
A
WHEN ORDERING
ALE
Insist on
FOSTER S Ml
The ORIGINAL Bottler*
of Bass’ Ale.
STILL THE FOREMOST.
HIMRODS
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
LET
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Toilet Soap
take its part in your everyday
toilet —to keep the skin in good
condition, to remove all traces
of perspiration and to protect
against infection*
Your local Chemist or Stores
sells it in 3 tablet boxes.
Makers:
F. C. Calvert & Co,, Manchester, Eng*


Scalp, Body, Hands, Limbs Covered
with Scales. Could Not Stand Tor-
ture. Cured by Cuticura Remedies.
“About three years ago I was attacked
with a very severe itching and burning all
over my body and finally my skin broke
gf
until my body looked like
a piece of raw meat. I did
believe that I could not
stand the torture any
longer, while all the time
I was using the salve and
the wash ordered by my
physician without relief.
When I was advised to go
to a skin specialist I went
with no better results. My
body was covered with
large white scales, with
scales on my hands, arms
and lower limbs. In about one week my
scalp was covered with scales which looked
like dandruff but became worse each day
until at the end of another week the scales
were as large as on a fish. The itch in my
head was unbearable. My hair was coming
out in combfuls until it looked so bad I was
ashamed to go on the street.
“I used tar soap for a shampoo but it
took no effect. At the end of three weeks
the back of my head was completely bald,
I was a sight when I decided to try the
Cuticura Ointment for the hair, and when
I saw the wonderful results I decided to try
the Cuticura Soap and Ointment on my body.
After taking six baths in hot water with
plenty of Cuticura Soap, and using three
boxes of Cuticura Ointment and one bottle
of Cuticura Pills, I was cured. My hair has
grown more than an inch in length.
“Before using the Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment I lost all of my finger nails and my
hands were so sore I could not put them in
water. If I had tried them sooner I would
have saved a few hundred dollars.” (Signed)
Mrs. K. Detlefson, 651 Knickerbocker Ave.,
Brooklyn, N. Y., U. S. A., Jan. 24, 1911.
For more than a generation Cuticura Soap
and Ointment have afforded the most suc-
cessful treatment for skin and scalp troubles.
Sold throughout the world. A liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-p. book on
the skin, will be sent free, on application to
It. Towns & Co., Dept. 24K, Sydney.
An Interesting-
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only SO. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u. s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
h
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS-
The Wretchedness
of Constipation
Can quickly be overcome by
CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable act surely and
gently on the liver. Cure Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, and Indigestion,
They do their duty.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
gfh
fg
h
fgh
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
A CHRISTMAS GIFT
in the form of a
"SWAN SAFETY”
FOUNTPEN
never fails to be highly appreciated by
any and all.
It eliminates all writing
troubles such as blotting,
leaking, scratching. It
looks well and works
even better. It out=
lasts all other gifts—
that’s why it is such
a popular gift.
Va
Sold by
all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free from Makers.
MABIE, TODD $ CO., London,
or J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham
Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
[i
Protect Your Feet by wearing Patent Asbestos Socks.
fov/tw.'Vdy/t*
> ...4-
t. i
s»pa
#' *
Before Using.
No More Pains In the Feet. The Comfort Experienced
in Wearing Asbestos Socks is Absolutely Marvellous.
Hot, Perspiring, Inflamed and Tender Feet. Corns,
Bunions and Bad Feet Prevented and Absolutely Cured
by wearing Patent Asbestos Socks, (soles). <
An Army Surgeon discovered that soldiers after marching suffered more from
ksoreness of the feet than from actual physical fatigue. After long study he
(found that this was due to the irritation set up by the smooth leather insoles of
(their boots. The Asbestos Socks, made from impregnated asbestos with a
slightly rough grained surface prevents the foot slipping inside, and walking is
thus less tiring. Asbestos being a non-conductor the feet are kept
from the variations caused bv hot or cold weather, a genuine joy
and blessing to the tenderfooted. In fact the comfort experienced
in wearing these socks Is absolutely marvellous. Try a
pair at once. Satisfaction Guaranteed or money refunded.
They will renew the feet of anyone who has to stand long or do much
walking, such as shop assistants, policemen, nurses, sailors,
soldiers, postmen, cyclists, athletes etc. Made in two qualities, 1/- and
2/- per pair, postage 2d pair extra. Six pairs either quality sent for price of
five pairs. State size and name this paper.
Universal Supply Co. 460 George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
1
yy/fi:
Imp
'}////. »2ra
v/»V. A M
v.Vvvfe
il/ler Using.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/IJ, 2/9 * 4/6. Made in England.
gf
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks ol
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
The cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
wftwmavtMMUi i
BI02V
Benger's is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
er’s Food
for Children, Invalids and the Aged, enjoys
the universal recommendation of Medical men
in all cases of severe or temporary illness, and
during convalescence.
h
Food
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester,
England.
Hemet’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
The Inky Way.
“Laborite”: Australian writers who try to better
their working conditions are familiar with the threat
that “selected instead of original matter” will be
used, and that they will thereby be bumped, bashed,
or chucked. Now comes J. H. Catts. According to
Catts (B. 31/10/’l2), the matter written by his sub-
editor, with a view to making the paper look like a
paper, “was never asked for, and it wouldn’t affect
the sale of a single paper if it were dropped out, and
selected, instead of original, matter were inserted
in its stead.” This country is so cursed by thievish
prints thfet perhaps one more wouldn’t matter much;
but what must we think of a “Labor” politician
with sufficient hide to dream of dropping a chief
employee’s original work for the everlasting clip?
The political platform on which Catts gains any
eminence he may possess advocates that the earth
should be made a decent place for workers, and if
there’s a harder worker than a man who has to do
the chief part towards filling a fair-sized weekly, I’d
like to know where he is. Mr. Catts was present,
and spoke at various sittings of the N. S. Wales
Labor conference of 1911, which conference passed
more than one motion favoring the support by the
Labor movement of Australian writers and artists.
If he feels that Australian writers are so useless and so
easily to be done without, why didn’t he arise at
that time and point out that Labor didn’t want
writers? I’d like to hear this advocate of cheap
clipped matter give his opinion on the Australian
shopkeeper who offered “selected” instead of original
boots for sale. Yet, as a fact, there isn’t much dif-
ference between boots that are the product of suc-
cessful burglary and the average “lifted” newspaper
matter.
* * * *
“T.C.8.”: N.S.W. country pressmen who did the
Sydney Harbor trip with Speaker Willis the other
day were shocked to their last whisker to discover
the sort of man he really is. The keeper of order
unbent and told the Inky Wayback that “he never
smiled when in the chair, though he sometimes
laughed when he vacated it.” I. Wayback has now
returned to the bush with a fresh idea to mix with
his Liberalism. He has discovered that Willis is
merely a polite gentleman guilty of the crime of re-
garding himself as having a mission to put down
political larrikinism of the Fitzperry and Cohen-
wood sort.
* * * *
Australian newspaper scribes who would like to
write “M.J.” after their names —“Master of Jour-
nalism”—must emigrate to the beautiful City of
Cork, in the South of Ireland. Cork University Col-
lege has just established a Faculty of Journalism,
in which a degree may be gained after a three-year
course. But, alas, “the Irish language is compul-
sory for both degree and matriculation exams.,” so
the average journalist will Do Without It, and sign
himself D.W.I. if he wants to. And D.W.I. will
probably do him just as much good.
* * * *
From London: —Cardinal Moran still showers
“copy” upon the sphere which he formerly inha-
bited. A new volume of the “Catholic Cyclopedia”
has just been published in N’w York and London.
It contains a lengthy article, signed by the Car-
dinal, on Dr. Peter Talbot, Archbishop of Dublin in
the 17th century, who passed through stormy times
and died a prisoner in Dublin Castle. This new
Cyclopedia has also an article on the Archdiocese of
Sydney by Monsignor O’Haran. It is nearly all
about the Cardinal and what he did in Sydney.
“He consecrated 14 bishops, ordained 500 priests,
dedicated more than 500 churches and professed
5000 nuns.” O’Haran might have added, “And
made 50,000 Wowsers mighty uncomfortable.” Of
course the biographer claims for the Cardinal many
things that I’ll have to ask Dill Macky about the
next time we meet at the Gaiety.
* * * *
“Sir Octopus”: Apropos of the late Tom Beasley,
manufacturer of topical verses; bespoke goods a
specialty. About a quarter of a century ago, when
the old tub Brightside was about the most interest-
ing feature of the Manly ferry service, Tom had
charge of the refreshment ioint on the pier. He
could not put two words together nearly as well as
he could make a sandwich. A little later he became
a mummer under Gen. Booth, and at the Salv’army
Theatre was wont to tell how he was saved. When
I met him organising in the West I could scarcely
credit either eyes or ears. Several times I heard
and saw him at work, and he could sway a mob
wonderfully. “Where did we meet last?” he asked
me one night. “When you were blithering to the
accompaniment of a big drum on the Corso,” I re-
sponded. “Ah, that’s where I got the necessary con-
fidence,” he said. “I never could spout before.”
Booth’s brigade lost a rare fish when it let Beasley
slip through its fingers. He was a specialist in con-
version, if the Salvs. had only known it.
* * * *
The Australian Journalists’ Association has de-
cided to publish an inter-State craft paper. It will
be named The Australian Journalist, and the first
issue is clue towards the end of November. Publi-
cation will be monthly ; the size will be 16 pages;
and the circulation well over 1000 —probably well
over 1500.
* * * *
Recent advt. from London Times: —
Well-known author will dedicate important
forthcoming book to any lady or gentleman who
will lend him £l5O. —M. 128, The Times Office,
E.C.
Immortality seems cheap at the price.
BABBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Often I seek excuses for a verse;
For verse means lucre, lucre means a meal;
Meals are the best excuses to rehearse
The movements moral processes reveal.
For moral processes are like bargees,
Threading the alimentary canal,
Bringing a noble purpose to your knees,
Bricks to your brains, and fuel there withal.
I said “excuses,” but I meant a theme,
To make a babble over Thought’s dry rocks;
And now I am embarked upon a stream
Where runs no current, but about the locks.
Which is the better, there may be some doubt,
A torrent rushing in a stony bed,
Saving some sinners from the ills of drought;
Or water-highways, bringing beggars bread.
So, for a bread and water rhyme at last;
Fuel’s for fools, philosophers require
Only the elements to break their fast,
Wind for their wisdom, sunshine for their fire.
Wind to excite their wits and bear the seed
Into their neighbor’s patch; the sun to rouse
Those common properties the neighbors need
To fill the udders of their milking cows.
Softly! The bread and water’s turned to milk!
Food and utility confound us all;
Cloth and philosophy give way to silk,
Sauces and luxury—and then, the fall!
Pharaoh constructs canals —the railway comes;
Olives and bees make honey, wax and oil;
Scotch engineers make work, and Egypt hums
With Cooks and Cockneys, tickets, toys and toil.
So, let me drowse beside my mountain stream.
Bother my neighbors’ cows! Perdition catch
The Scotch surveyor, who would chain my dream
And plant a station in my poppy patch!
And now for dinner. Are the lentils done?
And are the wine-flasks full, the olives good?
Throw wide the window open to the sun!
The rhyme of life begins and ends in food!
MAJORCA.
WAIF.


THE BEST STEP TO TAKE
if you desire immunity from skidding, puncture and trouble, is to have the wheels of your car shod with the
“SEMELLE” NON-SKID
This cover, which has specialty-hardened steel studs projecting well above the tread,
with their bases deeply embedded in the rubber, ensures a firm grip on the
greasiest of roads. These studs penetrate the grease.
Additional strength is afforded by the band of stout chrome leather, which renders
the tyre practically puncture-proof.
MICHELIN TYRES
(45)
Can be obtained from all the leading Garages.
%
9!
G
o
BILIOUS SUBJECTS
are generally victims of Constipation, that root evil of so many
terrible afflictions ; but they are “ bilious subjects” no longer when
they adopt ,the famous Cockle’s Antibilious Pills as the standing
household remedy, now in the
Second Century of World-Wide Renown.
Cockle’s Pills, which doctors of six generations have taught the world
to use and esteem, have no harsh, coercive action on the sluggish orgaci;
they gently stimulate, soothingly strengthen and encourage, the natural
organic functions, at the same time thoroughly cleansing the system and
purifying the vital fluid. There is nothing to equal Cockle’s Pills for
this perfect cleansing, reinvigorating, purifying combination of results.
It is marvellous.
PMLIk
NATURAL
ENO’S
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
iNViGORA TtNG
f* The Top Notch of Scotch.”
U LT*
King
George IV”
Scotch Whisky.,
Ripe in years. Rare in quality.
The Distillers Company Ltd Edinburgh*
t SYDNEY—AngeI Place.
MELBOURNE—S 2, William Street.
-
The flany Points of SUPERIORITY
»f Eckcrsky’s *‘ REGAL ’’ Aerated
Water Machine
over ALL OTHERS create a demand
for it by all sensible
HOTELKEEPERS.
Catalogues from
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE,
The Only Manufacturers of GOOD
Soda Water Machines and Fountains.
Queensland Agents:
ELLIOT DONALDSON & DOUGLASS, Brisbane.
J


€
TROUT and PERCH TACKLE.
We are the Leading and Largest Importers in Austral a of High-olass Fishing Tackle.
It doesn’t matter whether
you have shillings or
pounds to spend, we will
fit you out better than
any other house. SEND
YOUR ORDER —NOW.
RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Fly Rod, 11 feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, waterproof lock joints, best agate bridge and
end rings. Highest quality £7/10/-
No. 1. Split Cane Trout Rod, lQi and 11 feet, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge and end rings. This
rod is very closely whipped £5/10/-
The M.S. Split Cane Rod, 10i and feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, solid winch fittings, serrated ferrules, snake rings,
„ ctc £2
Same as above, but with Steel Centre £2/10/-
Our M.S. Specialities are absolutely the biggest value obtainable.
No. 7. Split Cane Rod, 10J feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated mountings, spiral guides 7/6
No. 8. Split Cane Rod, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
best fittings, snake rings, welted ferrules, two-color silk whip-
pings, put up on flannel-covered wood form 22/6
No. 10. Split Cane Rod, 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated fittings, welted ferrules, snake rings, etc. 17/6
No. 12. Finest Greenheart Rod, ioi and n feet, 3
joints, 2 tops, cork grip, best lock joints, serrated ferrules, rev.
end rings, best fittings, stained olive green £2/10/-
M.s. Guinea Greenheart Rod, 10i and 11| feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, snake rings, best fittings. A first-class rod,
suitable for any of our trout streams 21/-
REELS.
No. 1. M.S. Perfection Reels, made of best hardened
aluminium alloy, patent brake attachment—
Sin., 25/-; 3 Min., 30/-
No. 3. I.X.li. Fly Reels, made of best hardened metal,
optional check, oscillating line guard—
3in., 25/-; 3Min., 27/6; 3Min., 30/-
MICK SIMMONS
Hardy Bros.* Renowned Specialities.
Hardy’s Patent Contracted Perfect Reel, with ball
bearings and regulating check, specially designed for dry fly
and general trout fishing, 3% in., 42/6; 3% in., 45/-
Hardy’s “Corona Superba” Double Taper Trout Fly
Lines, made from highest-q ality silk, a beautiful, soft and
pliant line, suitable for wet or drv fly fishing. Length 35
yards. 1.D.1., 20/-; 1.C.1., 23/6; 1.8.1., 28/-
Hardy’s Improved Halcyon Spinners, very certain in
hooking—-
IMin., 2/-; 2/3; 2in., 2/6 3in., 3/3
LINES.
“Kingfisher” Double Taper Trout Fly Lines— a High-
class Line —•
30 yards ' No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6
40 yards .. No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No. 3, 13/6
42 yards . . No. 4, 22/6; No. 5, 25/-; No. 6, 27/6
Perfect Waterproof Plaited Silk Lines. A good-quality
level line, put up in coils of 25 yards connected—-
No. 40, 2/6; No. 30, 3/- per 25 yards
LANDING NETS.
No. 1. M.S. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net 16/-
No. 8. “Quicksure” Collapsible Trout Net. 30/-
No. 9. X.L. Collapsible Net, telescopic handle 14/6
CAST CASES (SL BOXES.
No. 1. Palley’s Cast Case, parchment pockets... 3/6
No. IC. Hand-sewn Pigskin Cast Case, with dresgcd
castdamper 7/6
No. 2. Japanned Round Cast Box, 4in. diameter 1/6
No. 5. Aluminium Round Cast Box, with E’elt
pads 1/6
FLY BOXES.
No. 1. Best Eyed Fly Boxes, with spring clips, mounted
to Xylonite—
-51 clips, 4/6: 85 clips, 5/6; 119 clips. 7/-
No. 6. Aluminium Fly Box, fitted with 69 Spring
clips 9/6
We have absolutely the largest and best assorted stock of High
Class Fishing Tackle in Australia to select from. Cet our List—
It will save you money.
FISHING BAGS.
No. 1. M.S. Fishing Bag, made from best canvas, with
detachable waterproof lining—
Medium, 12/6; Large, 15/-
No. 2. “Perfect” Fishing Bag, made from a strong, light
cloth. Has an expanding net on front — 1
Medium, 16/6; Large, i9/6
No. 3. I.X.L. Fishing Bag, made from a strong, light
cloth, with detachable, rubber-faced cloth lining, and two
pockets on front for carrying tackle—-
Medium, 14/6; Large, 16/6
GAFFS.
No. 1. One Slide Telescopic Gaff 7/6
No. 2. Two Slide Telescopic Gaff, with point pro-
tector 13/6
No. 3. Best Two Slide Telescopic Gaff, very su-
perior * * *.. 17/6
SUNDRIES.
Wading TrouSers, made from best Cashinerette, light weight,
strong and durable, all sizes 42/- pair
Brogues, leather, with canvas upper, all sizes 25/- pair
Trout Flies, ail the latest and standard patterns, from 2/- doz.
Perch Flies, very best quality,,. 1/6 each
Others, from ... 6d. each
Spinning Head Flies, for Trout and Perch, a very successful
bait last season. Perch size, 1/6; Trout Size, 1/4 each
Spinning Head Halcyons—
-1 Yi in., 1/4; 2in., 1/6; 2*4in., 1/0; 3in., 2/- each
Flying Waterwitch Baits, highly successful—
-1 Yt in., 2/-; 2in., 2/3; 2^in., 2/6; 3in., 3/- each
Rouke Spinners, a good trout bait.. 9d. each
Invincible Spinners, a splendid bait 9d. each
THESE ARE ONLY A FEW OF THE LINES
WE STOCK. For a FULL ILLUSTRATED
DESCRIPTION OF ALL FISHING TACKLE
SEE OUR SIXTH EDITION TACKLE CATA=
LOGUE, containing a page of colored flies. The
Biggest and Best Book of its kind published.
Write now posted free anywhere.
LTD.,
The Premier TacKle House of Australia,
HEAD DEPOT: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
r »
99
525
um
Ik
Aa2o
Underwear.
The all-Australasian-
_ underwear with the
softness of silk. And unshrinkable too !
If the name Hiss is on your underwear you have the best.
"guon;
, because of its silky softness, is the most comfortable
wear you can have. Its all-wool character makes it hygienic
and good wearing. And never shrinks. Whether
for summer or winter wear there is none to equal
for comfort. Insist on —it costs no more than
the ordinary kind.
'‘GcfAQTt* Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and
Children. In all prices. niade Jerseys for
cinidren are splendid wear. Of Men's ’Jitters, Drapers,
and Stores. If your dealer does not sioth can obtain
it from his wholesale house. 4** m ' m *
In case of diti cutty write for 'Jason' booklet and name
of nearest Agent, to
(Z)
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
g
Each "BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend —
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT (£i SON, 137-9 King' Street, Sydney
T NSULATE your foundation against the dampness of the soil by coating
the walls and floors with Congo Damp Course. This dense, waterproof
fabric can be buried in wet ground without the slightest danger of deteriora-
tion. It will keep the walls perfectly dry and will also repel vermin, ants, etc.
Any man can apply it properly. It is made in seven different widths to suit
all sorts of conditions. Sample on request.
Australian Agents: —Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Melbourne),
fli
Wm.
mm
Damp Course
*
Is the most penect Preservative vor the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROLLED. VERY SOOTHING IF
applied afier shaving
M. BEETHAM AON. CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving’s, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr,. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
House, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
tiie Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Like, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Hanuybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. ParlorTriOks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is.. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History ok the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Biatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 31. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Palnting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
u
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACING
THE POPULAR 11 PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Bayes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will he posted to
_ ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
irBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at, Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Any where for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT 15Y RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, geifuine.
Is. Old Bush So.ngs, Is 3d Dost. Hu. Milpord’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the King.
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s (id post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderpul Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macpadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipe’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy, is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, HiOOillus., leather
uound, my price, los post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age op Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


MAN AND WIFE CURED
SUFFERED FROM LIVER DISORDER AND BILIOUSNESS: DROWSY,
OUT-OF-SORTS. AND TORTURED BY CHEST PAINS.
Bile Beans are the Best
Spring Medicine.
At this season the human system needs toning-uj I
and putting in thoroughly healthy condition. If this’
is not done, the body, through lack of vitality to stand
the altered climatic conditions, may fall a victim to
one or other of the complaints that endangered the
health of Mr. E. P. Lambert, of 7 Denham Street,
Sydney, who, sneaking also on behalf of his wife, says:
“Myself and wife were both victims of biliousness and
indigestion. Often, while working on the wharf,
vomiting fits and bilious attacks would completely
prostrate me, and while these bouts lasted all strength left
me. Terrible chest pains intensified my suffering; my
liver was sluggish, which caused me to feel drowsy and
thoroughly worn out, while there was always an unpleasant
taste in my mouth. My wife suffered in a like manner
with wind round the heart; she was reduced to an awful
state, and her health completely shattered. Both of us
tried various remedies, but all our efforts were in vain.
“At last my wife procured a supply of Bile Beans, and we
both started taking them with verv gratifying results, a.
few doses relieved us both of the awful pains and sickly
sensations. The bilious attacks grew less and finally ceased, lassitude
disappeared, and vitality and energy took its place. A full course of Bile
Beans completely cured us, and now we are both able to eat practically
anything, whereas before we were only able to partake of a very limited
diet.
“My daughter has also derived much benefit from Bile Beans, which are
a splendid liver medicine which no home should be without.”
f Nature’s Remedy—Purely Vegetable.)
Kile Beans are a grand family medicine and general tonic. They rouse up the
sluggish organs to natural activity, purify the blood, and end all weakness. Bile
Beans arc so gentle—yet searching—that they can be given to the most delicate
youngster. Girls just entering womanhood will prevent much unnecessary pain and
suffering by taking a short ■course of Itile Beans. A bar should be kept in every
home . and on every farm and cattle station. Bold by all stores and chemists, at
1/U and 2/0
ner box (2/0
holds 3 times
' /I ' size).
me e.p
Lambcrt
vwAMxW. *
'Mr
tie
eeois to?
iliousftess
Pears’
Annual
XMAS
1912
The twenty-second issue of PEARS’ ANNUAL is the
expression, as always before, of the very highest modern
attainments in light literature and pictorial art.
Six eminent living writers, touching the imagination in
vivid and varied styles, contribute new stories' in their
best manner.
Their names guarantee their work:
SIR H. RIDER HAGGARD,
SIR A QUILLER COUCH,
GEORGE R. SIMS,
MRS. FLORA A. STEEL,
FERGUS HUME, and
ROBERT BARR.
Artists of similar distinction interpret the stories in a
series of delightful illustrations :
FRANK DADD, R.I. CHARLES PEARS,
R. CATON WOODVILLE, WILL OWEN and
CYRUS CUNEO, R.C.I.
|P|Sr Two humorous full pages in colours,
facsimile of the original drawing by W. Weeks.
=Three exquisite=
Presentation Plates
in large size for framing.
1. Happy as a King, 2. A Rustic Beauty,
W. COLLINS, R.A. W. AFFLECK.
3. Dined, not wisely, but too well,
J. SIIAW CROMPTON, R.I.
reproducing with fidelity the full range of colours of the
originals, and fit for the walls of the most refined homes.
The whole in a beautifully coloured and illustrated cover.
Sold by all Booksellers.
Agents for Australasia : GORDON & GOTCH.
The Jamboree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’T ONGSIDE the Desert track that
I i leads up North from Broken ’lll,
Unsightly in the glarin’ ’eat, we found
the bones o’ Bill.
’E wasn’t good to gaze upon, that lonesome
human shell,
But neither men nor manners keep upon the
Roof of ’Ell !
We yanked him fin a saddle-front, we dragged
’im many a mile
(An’ once or twice I could ’a’ swore I seen
ole William smile!)
We bore ’im on the saddle-front, ’is rags an’
bones a-rub,
Until we came, at set o’ sun, to “Piker”
Doolan’s pub.
Ole “Piker” didn’t look surprised ; ole “Piker”
didn’t stare ;
’E simply said: “It seems to me that it is
’ardly fair
To yank along a Rechabite—a sober looker-
on.
Whose thirst ’as passed before the Lord;
whose spendin’ days are gone !”
“Oh ! stow yer gaff, for ’Eaven’s sake,” young
Jack McCluskey said.
“The man that drinks your whisky best, ’e
drinks it when Vs dead ;
For then ’e don’t wake up to see wild devils
red and blue,
Nor squirmin’ snakes —nor ask the Lord to
bring a curse on you.”
Seven men was in our party, an’ the seventh
man was Bill,
When seven most outrageous thirsts we
started out to fill.
L’pon the counter Bill we propped, ’longside
a. cask o’ beer,
(An’ once or twice I could ’a’ swore I ’eard
ole William cheer !)
Ole Bill looked disappointed like when we our
poisons named ;
For not to drink when others drink is cause
to be ashamed !
But ’e, ole cuss! ’e didn’t know ’ow wise ’is
mates could be:
We simply said: “Ole William, ’ere, shall
’ave ’is jamboree!”
Though Bill was dead, an’ passed away, an’
ready for the vault—
We knew, as well as anyone, it wasn’t Wil-
liam's fault.
For any man is apt to die; but, when he
passes out,
Why should ’e ’urry to the Land of Ever-
lastin’ Drought?
Six rounds o’ drinks we ’ad (our necks
seemed filled with burnin’ lime !) -
An’ right in front of Bill we set his whisky
ev’ry time !
For Bill a drinkin’ comrade was —an’ when
a comrade dies.
Why should ’e be a temp’rance crank —or
guzzle with the flies?
Then Mulga Mick grabs ’old o’ Bill, an’
cutely found an’ felt
A most auspicious spongy wad inside the
corpse’s belt.
Then from a little chamois bag ’e pulls a
fiver out—
“No Jimmy Woodsers ’ere,” sez ’e; “it’s
William’s turn to shout!”
Ole Bill, what time ’e lived on earth, asked
not to be excused—
When ’e was called to join the boys ’e never
once refused!
An’ now because ’is breath was gone, the
tongue ’e lied with, still,
Why should the curse o’ temperance fall,
’eavy upon Bill?
Yes, ’e who dies must grimly bear one long,
tremendous thirst;
For when Vs shoved beneath the sand ’e’s
settled from the first!
’E’s simply got to keep the pledge, an’ stay
for ever dead- —
While all the time ’is bosom churns are sliik-
kered over’ead !
So “Piker” fills ’em up again—not “Piker’s”
round, by ’arf!
(An’ once or twice 1 could ’a’ swore I ’eard
ole William larf!)
“Four-poun’-thirteen,” sez Mulga Mick;
“just see your change is right—
An’, while you stay in ‘Piker’s’ pub, please
keep it out o’ sight.”
The money in the chamois bag Mick well an’
truly placed.
An’ clasped the belt once more around the
corpse’s wizened waist.
An’ then we drank—an’ drank again—until
the dawn o’ day :
And’ for each seventh round o’ drinks the
dead wan ’ad to pay!
We put the drink in front of him. (I
could ’a’ swore ’e said:
“If this was mine two davs ago I wouldn’t
now be dead !”)
But though we drank, an’ smoked an’ fought,
an’ danced, an’ raved, an’ swore.
No man had ever seen ole Bill so sensible
before!
’E was a right-yus citizen — a sort o’ moral
law.
Who never cursed the company, or punched
it on the jaw :
’E never used a swearin’ word, nor yet a
bottle flung,
At someone’s ’ed, when repartee too per-
sonally stung.
’E kept ’is tongue profoundly still; not once
did ’e remark
That Doolan was a ’ighwayman, a vulture,
’ or a shark ;
An’ neither did ’e curl ’is lip, an’ snap the
sneer o’ shame,
To swear that not a man of us went by ’is
father’s name.
No matter what we said or did, an’ thought
we good or ill,
It mattered not a single jot—r’twas all the
same to Bill!
An’ when Kinneally told ’im straight to go
an’ boil ’is ’ead,
’E never sassed—but just remained most
beautifully dead !
We threw the dice an’ dealt the cards, with
each man’s chance the same —
An’ Bill (God rest ’is sinful soul!), ’e played
in ev’ry game!
We sang the old Bush choruses that made
the rafters ring, ,
(An’ once or twice I could a swore I eard
ole William sing !).
We found ten fivers more on Bill, but ’id
them well away —
For ’im to grease ole Peters palm on Resur-
rection Day! ,
An’ we ’ad quids, an’ many quids—an quids
enough to burn ;
But it was only etiquette for Bill to buy in
turn.
We scattered all the fiends of ’Ell ; we let
the Devil loose;
But Bill ’e was a credit to that spirit ous
caboose! ■
An’ though at times 1 could a swore Rood
luck” from ’im I ’eard,
Six men in Doolan’s shanty swore ’e never
spoke a word!
We drank until the devils grew to twice as
many more,
An’ snakes an’ allergators somersaulted on
the floor! _
Jim’s wantegong got into ’olts with “Boko’s”
santerpee—
But Bill contemptuously eyed the whole
menagerie !
We seen the blazin’ Desert sun light up the
brassy skies;
But Bill, ’e never pulled the blinds, an’
never blinked ’is eyes.
’E never ’ad a pick-me-up (just whisky neat,
instead!),
Ah, ’e drinks Doolan’s whisky best who
drinks it when ’e’s dead!
Then one by one the devils went —an’
Jimmy’s wantygong,
With “Boko’s” wrestlin’ santerpee, an’ Jack
McCluskey’s song.
A hush came o’er the pubbery, an’ for a
little while
The only thing that cheered the scene was
“Piker” Doolan’s smile.
But Bill, ’e ’ad no aches nor pains; ’e sat
there just as calm
As one who in the sanctu’ry partakes of
Gilead’s balm.
But ’e was cold to gaze upon, that solemn
sentinel.
Ah, was that night ’is Purgat’ry—or was it
’Ea.ven —or ’Ell?
But what it was ’twas left to us, ’is mourn-
ful friends, to guess :
We only knew that William knew no dreary
loneliness !
We did our best to cheer ’is soul towards
the Golden Stairs —•
Per medium of Doolan’s stock of alcoholic
wares.
Next day we yanked ’im further on, ’is rags
an’ bones a-rub ;
For no man. be ’e drunk or dead, is safe at
“Piker’s” pub.
An’ Bill, ’e was our trusted mate —an’ when
a comrade dies.
Why should ’e fatten “Piker’s” purse, or
guzzle with the flies!
SUNSET LAND.
R. .T. CASSIDY.
’Tween Drinks.
A VIRTUOUS DECEPTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘"IVT" O, Crawford,” said Patrick Macka-
-1 hoy, “woman is not m.y pet aver-
sion. Travel and observation have
served to convince me that there is nothing
so like a man as a woman. It’s somewhat
to the credit of the Mackaboy strain, that I
have foregathered in bars with the. ribald
through long, hot summers, and still retain
a lively respect for my little sister.
“Fact is, MdVleekin, the next sex doesn’t
get a fair deal from the habitual potter.
When the wine’s in the woman’s outed. In
the bar-room conversazione Sissie is either a
bad joke or an object of smouldering resent-
ment. If I accepted the judgments handed
out to me here in sheaves, I would be a
stern advocate of the policy of keeping
women in crates.
“As it is, being superior to my surround-
ings, Anson, and immune to the corrupting
influence of evil associations, Cootie, I can
still look myself souarely in the eye, and in-
sist that when woman’s wholly bad she’s just
about half as bad as man.
“Not that I haven’t been jolted off my
pedestal by the sweetest girl in the world
in my regular turn,” said the barman with
a touch of melancholy. “Looking back on
a long and spotted career I recall with some
satisfaction various occasions when the min-
istering angel socked me in the epiglottis
good and hard. I bear no ill-will. In later
years, with keener judgment, enhanced by
time and study, I cheerfully admit it was
coming to me —every hook and jab.”
“There was Dorris,” Patrick Mackaboy
sighed and changed the subject, showing a
bright spurt of coin-manipulation with a
gingei nut.
“About Dorris?” said MeMeekin. “Cut
out the palm mystery. Re the girl Dorris,
when and where? How and why? With
date and place, pertinent details, and such
moral reflections as are positively unavoid-
able—go!”
“Dorris wore a white dress. Her face was
as white. She was sitting in a white enam-
elled wicker chair at a white table, under a
tree clotted with white bloom. Her hair was
Dale gold, and her eyes were two black lairs
in the driven snow —lairs of the devil of
discontent.
“I was an invalid, too. Spots that had
haunted my general outlook for months sud-
denly begot a lean, red imp with spiked knees
and a spinal ridge like a horned toad. I was
supplementing my worries as a barman, mak-
ing a big effort to be an author of sorts at
the time. The doctor said neurasthenia, and
recommended mountain resorts and total ab-
stinence from midnight oil and carousings
with the Muse.
“The place was swung high in the ethereal
blue, on a beetling range. It was surrounded
by cloud-capped towers and gorgeous palaces
of primordial granite. I could welter here in
precipices and peaks and other scenic effects,
but let’s to business.
“To Sweet Springs came many pilgrims,
nerve cases, convalescents, cranks, honey-
mooners, dyspeptics, valetudinarians of all
(Continued on next page.)


HOW TIRED I AH!”
No one knows the suffering some women quietly endure. They think it is
only natural for them to have pain in the back, throbbing headaches, dizzy spells,
rheumatic twinges, irregular heart, and to feel tired and worn out before the day is
half through. And so they bear up as best they can, in patience and without com-
plaint, never thinking they can be cured, never suspecting the kidneys as the cause
of their illness.
But it is not right for women to be always ailing, and the best proof of this is
given in the outspoken statements of Sydney women who have been made well, and
kept well, by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the great kidney and bladder medicine
for men and women, old and young. Doan’s Pills gently heal the tired, overworked
kidneys, and when the kidneys are well they take out the liquid poisons which cause
the above symptoms, as well as bladder disorders, gravel, dropsy, rheumatism,
lumbago, and wasting away.
TWO
LASTING SYDNEY CURES.
Mrs. S. May, 48 Newlancl Street, Waverley, Sydney,
says: “It is now 13 years since I told you that Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills had cured me of backache and
rheumatism, and gave you permission to publish this
fact for the benefit of other sufferers. I can say
now that my cure was a perfect one, and I have been
well all that time. I had contracted a severe chill
across the loins, and for a couple of years suffered
with lumbago-like pains in the small of my back. I
also had a touch of rheumatism. But Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured me 13 years ago, and I am
still quite free of every symptom of kidney complaint.
I have recommended this great kidney remedy to
numbers of sufferers, and they all endorse my good
opinion of it.”
Mrs. A. B. Bruce, “Omapere,” Broughton Road,
Artarmon, Sydney, says: “I suffered for a long time
with severe pains in my back. They were so bad that
I could scarcely move about. Rest was out of the
question. I would be tossing about all night, moaning
with the pain. I could not bend my back, and I had
to neglect my work. I was really very ill, and would
be confined to bed for days at a time. I saw Doan’s
Backache Kidney Fills advertised as a cure for back-
ache. and procured a bottle. After a few doses I got
relief, and then gradually I got better, until I was
quite cured. This did not happen yesterday, but two
vears ago, and lam still well.” Five years later Mrs.
Bruce says: “Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me
of backache seven years ago, and I have been free of
this ailment ever since.”
,<j "G-very Picture
Tells A Story"
I
d
sfi
l
llh
\
DOmS
Backache
Kidney
PIUS.
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2 lp per bottle
(six bottles, 15/3); or
from Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney.
sorts, shades and sects, including gaunt,
shifty men, shaking off those monstrous in-
firmities that haunt the whiskers of the
misguided sinner who has tried to put down
the accursed drink in one titanic gulp.
“My sympathy for Dorris was something
in the nature of a dissipation. I indulged my-
self in it by the hour. She had an elder
sister on guard, and Dorris’s trouble was a
fixed conviction that the world was against
her. She imagined herself an object of ab-
horrence to man and animal, and had a
piquant idea that if she went abroad in the
streets the pack would get after her.
“It was understood that Miss Dorris
Creeling was progressing favorably. In a
month’s time she might be in a position to
give a glowing testimonial to Sweet Spring
with special mention of the balmy mountain
air and the easterly outlook. Meanwhile she
haunted the great garden, cowering in cover,
shunning everyone, even the faithful sister
Vvho kept watch and ward at a distance.
“Sympathy springs from man’s conscious-
ness of his own abilities. I, too, had had
moments when I began to have glimpses of
myself as a useless by-product, and to specu-
late on the probability of the populace throw-
ing clods at me. I, too, had had twinges that
caught up the strings of my neck and turned
my heart to a cup of tears, realising that
nowhere in the wide, wide world was there
a gentle breast offering as a resting-place for
a head like mine.
“Yes, to a sound man it is nauseous
bathos, but if you are sick with the right
kind of sickness those feelings make hell. So
I yearned towards Dorris Creeling. Anson,
you are wrong. You would be naturally,
There was nothing of that in my yearnings.
.1 would have yearned similarly towards a
cat in distress or an anguished camel. It
simply meant that I was so tuned to com-
passion you couldn’t trail a finger across my
cords without producing a symphony.
“Anyhow, being sorry for the poor girl left
me no time to be sorry for myself, and
within a fortnight I was a young blood again,
careless of the world’s opinion, capable of
looking over Windon’s Slip without feeling
an inward prompting to hurl myself into
the absurd, dotted, theatrical landscape half
a mile below, and fit to put up 10 two-
minute rounds with any censorious middle-
weight who might be moved to cast asper-
sions on the fair fame of the clan Mackaboy.
“I had walked much in the garden, won-
dering earnestly what a strapping young man
might do for a damsel in distress, afflicted
with a horror of the sons of Adam. Gentle-
men, I have an air. You may have noticed
it. I am in the nature of an unintentional
deceiver, an unwitting take-down. When I
cast aside the imnlements of trade and appur-
tenances of office, and walk abroad, nobody
is content to take me for an ambidextrous
pot-jostler or toss-pot merely. A barrister, if
you like, but never a barman. It is no fault
of my own. Observe, I have nothing up my
sleeve. Nothing is done by me to heighten
the delusion, but, on the other hand, I take
no steps to correct the popular error.
“It was akin to the above at the hospice
in the hills. Sweet Springs took me at my
face value, and I had obsequious service and
general respect. The common idea seemed to
be that Patrick Mackaboy was a man of
beans, whereas, towards the finish, Patrick
had not the wherewithal to put down a bran
plot in a comfit box.
“I ma y mention that among those present
was one Horace Canborne, whom I recog-
nised as a frequent client of mine in many
places. He was there to shake off the fag-
end of an old and recurrent delusion con-
cerning a cock ostrich, two blue pelicans, a
Jew lizard, a horned owl, one four-legged
stool, a dugong, two pink dodoes and a sculp-
tured tortoise, all on one rope, which pro-
cession would pass down his throat innne-
diately it caught him bending. Horace
might have put the proprietary and guests
right concerning my inferior status, but it
did not seem to have occurred to him as a
judicious course, and he and the drabble of
passive resisters, who were drinking ginver-
beer and telling each other how the craving
for stimulants had at length been perma-
nently overcome, treated me with fine, old-
fashioned courtesy that should have pro-
voiced suspicions in this amiable bosom.
“Things stirred at Sweet Springs when
what might have been a cat-fight in a clothes-
bag arrived in the dining-room one pleasant
afternoon. Presently the disturbance re-
solved itself into. a woman under the stress
of powerful emotion.
“ Dorris Creeling!’ screamed the woman,
‘Windon’s Slip !’
“If anybody remained to argue it was not
Pat Mackaboy. In about seven minutes I
was at Windon’s Slip, with 40ft. of half-inch
Manila. Already a clamorous congregation
was on the spot, mingling tears, entreaties,
prayers, expostulations, and vain noise. And
down at the bottom of the abrupt
slope, beyond which was Eternity, stood
Dorris Creeling, with her body against
the granite, and her feet against a ledge that
was scarcely more than a ripple on the slimy
rock.
“Past the slope was the happy land, far,
far away. A few had gone that route. You
slid the slope, and then shot into space,
bringing up—long after earthly cares had
ceased—in timbered country so far down,
that the gums looked like bracken in a
cleared paddock ; and that 20ft. slope was so
precipitous that the girl stood almost upright
against the face of it, turned half-side on, her
smudged-in, cavernous eyes lifted to the
people above.
“The elder Miss Greeling, prostrate at the
brink, held by many hands, pleaded in a
long scream of utmost suffering. Her sister
had escaped from her, and precipitated her-
self down the Slip. That she was not now
in the lowlands was the closest thing to
a miracle that has come my way yet.
“The rope was about my waist, and four
reliable honeymooners were on the other end.
I was going over when Dorris spoke :
“ ‘lf you come near me I shall jump!’
she said.
“I did not doubt her for a moment. You
understood at once it was advisable to try
other means. Lying on the brink, I lowered
the looped rope.
“The girl was looking into my eyes. She
pushed herself out from the granite face.
‘I wish to die,’ she said,
“The movement sickened me. I jerked
the rope back, and remained, looking down
at Dorris, while her sister raved entreaties
that scathed your bones like an emery wheel,
“My bright idea came to me from Heaven,
or elsewhere. I ordered them to get the
sister away. I commanded everyone into
the background, with a burst of magnificent
arrogance, and then, lying half over the
abyss, I talked to the girl below.
“ ‘Dorris,’ I said, ‘for God’s sake, Dorris,
listen to me. I love you. I love you with
all my soul. I don’t want anyone in this
world but you. Don’t do this dreadful
thing. I love you. You hear me? You
know what I am saying to you. I love you.’
“It’s sloppy stuff to spoon out here and
now before a gang of hard-doers with
whipped-beer in their ignoble whiskers, but
I did it well then. ’Twas a bluff, but I put
everything good that God had given me into
it, pleading like an archangel, and the girl’s
strange shadowed eyes became luminous as
I talked.
“ ‘Life is not terrible,’ I said, ‘if you can
care for one who would die for you. My ex-
istence, too, has been empty. Oh, you
sweet, white woman, do not rob me of my
new hope. Come back to me. I love ’>’ou.
Come back to me!’
“She never took her eyes off mine, and
little by little I dropped the noose nearer,
pleading with a passion that was like mad-
ness. ‘lf you die, dear one,’ I said, ‘there
can be no life for me. Save me. Save me.
I ask no more but that you will live.’ Lord
knows all I said. There was a sort of fine
frenzy on me, but as I raved, the girl thrust
one arm after the other through the noose,
and let it fall about her body, and ten
seconds later she was safe in her sister’s
arms.”
“Well?” inquired Anson after a pause.
“I deemed it expedient to leave Sweet
Springs two days later.”
“There’s a denouement. Let’s have it.”
“It seems my friend Horace Canborne, in-
spired by a sense of unwholesome humor,
had given it out on the occasion of my first
appearance that I was Patrick Mackaboy,
of The Bar, letting it be inferred that The
Bar was a run on the Darling worth next
but one to a million, and his palsied follow-
ing of renovated sots backed up and spread
the merry jape.”
“Well?”
“Oh, nothing. That is, scarcely anything
worth mentioning. A month later Miss
Dorris Greeling, the well-known, favorite
light operatic artiste, having quite recovered
from her recent indisposition, and being of
sound mind, acting under a misconception
inspired by Horace Canborne’s little fiction,
set going an action for breach of promise
claiming two thousand pounds damages.
Defendant was an impecunious barman, one
Patrick Mackaboy.”
EDWARD DYSON.
At Watson’s Bay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“IT MT' ENT to Watson’s Bay lately to stay
\ \ till next day with a friend. Rose
up early next morning and took a
walk. The scenery is chiefly composed of
rocks. There is not much to boast about in
the way of rich forest raiment on any of the
points and peninsulas around the Harbor,
but at Watson’s Bay Nature, as if tired of
pretence, shows you her bones without a
stitch of clothes on them. Wondered how
anybody, with a choice in the matter, could
elect to live theie. Iheie is no suif bathing
as there is at Manly, and the hotels don’t
open till 7 a.m. and close when they please,
I inspected the ruins of John Robertson’s
>“ *»»« * •
little daik dooi. Lntenng it in a bent posi-
tion 1 found myself in a narrow passage,
smelling of blue mould and mildew and pos-
sibly worse things. Struck a match and saw
that this passage led into another and that
into still another. Thought of the catacombs,
and grisly stories of men who had gone down
to explore secret ways under ancient castles
and had never been seen again. Began to
feel nervous. Struck more matches and dis-
covered a large central vault, to which all
the passages—which were really one long
crooked passage led. Iliere was a curious,
not unpleasant, indeed almost exhilarating
odor in the atmosphere of this vault. Could-
n’t account for it at all for a few moments
and then I saw the reason in; a flash—l wa>
standing in the cellar in which John Rob-
ertson.used to keep his whisky. And down
there in the mouldy dark under the rums of
°U house, a picture of the man rose be
tore me infinitely more vivid than any sug
gested by his statue, in the full light of day
Lame forth into the sunshine again and in
spected what was left of the place! above-
ground. Saw upstans some attic with small
half-moon windows about a foot above the
, slan d upright (and am onb
sft. Bm.) in the Places where -the roofs o.
these attics were loftiest. Where they (the
wer f e lo J e «t there was no room be-
tween roof and floor bulkier
than a pair of boots Supposedl that these
™°“ s r t, l LiTf Hu TTI old
h f 1 B d
P ~ ‘.. , , ~a i •i t
Behind this original building is a later-
built barn-like structure with some good-
sjzed rooms in it. Went upstairs and found
the plastered walls—where flakes hadn’t for-
tunately fallen away—covered with signa-
tures of distinguished visitors from Surry
mllg< New town, Woolloomooloo and other
populous and agreeable suburbs of Sydney.
fc ‘ pi ed the j ewe i 0 f the inscriptions, which
* .
' h, PERRY,
Itinerant Journalist,
Visited this Historic Spot
24/7?’04.
TT f ±D a , tou ? a h ;T!ani ”
And the sound 011 v 1 ia __ Kendall.
H. Perry would not take away from Ken-
da]]_ even though Kendall happened to be
dead, one leaf of laurel that belonged to him.
1 laughed more to myself however to think
of anybody who had ever heard Rob-
ertson’s voice- as a voice, of course—wish-
ing to hear it again. But it made me shudder
Pj . think hat the old man) ghost would say
if it could come back again (you are never
cer t a i n about what may or may not be nos-
sible in these days of astounding discoveries)
and see the things I saw. Was glad to get
away from the ruin. Tt depressed me more
than anything of the kind I ever saw before,
Fortunately f he t i me was 7.80 and the hotel
was open .
CREEVE ROE.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALI KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINOHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
M
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from %to
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
New ZpLl» d rf A f entS_HolmßS a " hllr ch, Brisbane, Q.
ew Zealand Agents—Philips & ?ike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The Experience of Half a Century
IS EMBODIED IN *
Eaglebert’s Lubricating Oils.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
7(
tMi
; 4
■
The
Waverley
is British Built.
12/14 h.p.,
4-cyl. Bosch
Magneto,
Zenith Carburetter,
9ft. Wheel Base.
£330 Nett.
The Doctor’s Ideal Car.
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycle,
Twln-cyl., 7 h.p., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
Metz 22
4-cyl., 22 h.p.,
Friction Drive,
Water-Cooled.
The Finest Runabout in
the World. _ The
Famous Hill Climber.
£175 nett.
Sole Agents:
8 HELLICAR LTD.
375 Kent >street,
Sflf
ill
m
Write for full particulars to
EC ONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor—Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The
“Goodall ”
Machinery
The
There’s
we do.
“All Good” Machinery
satisfaction in dealing with a firm that safeguards your interests like *
We’ll please you so much on your first deal that
to result. That’s what we want.
permanent patronage is sure
Now, what are your requirements? We can 'supply
CIRCULAR SAAVS
BAND SAWS
LOG BAND MILLS
SPINDLE MOULDERS
TENONERS
DOAE TADLERS
SANDERS
HIGH SPEED LATHES
DRILLING MACHINES
HACK SAW MACHINES
SHAPING MACHINES
PUNCHING MACHINES
SHEARING MACHINES
BLOWERS
MORSE TWIST BRILLS
MILLING CUTTERS
GEAR CUTTERS
REAMERS
SLOTTING CUTTERS
TAPS AND DIES
ro "'“ like °" r wlth <*• *-m
T. M. GOODALL &, CO. LTD
Universal Machinery Merchants.
_3O 3-5 RENT STREET, SYDNEY.
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’s
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the stomach and digestive organs generally Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pills give quick relief, stimulate the
organs to healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system
They are compounded of the best and purest ingredients and there are verv
few people who would not feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecbam’s Pills
Ifyou have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and "fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should ever
be without a box. Many thousands have proved the worth of Beecham’s Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Are Tlje Favourite Remedy.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
% ... AT ... *
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture
FROM 10 P£R CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
m
m
mo
m
m
mm
81
@BO
svo
h
YORK
KENT
DOVER
BUTE
The
COMPLETE
Rexophone
Catalogue
Fully describes these and other Models
Ask for a Copy. We post it FREE
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
DEPT. B, DRUITT STREET. SYDNEY.
m
s
2
2
2
P
£
iHH
2
“The World-wide Whiskey."
BURKES
★ ★★ IRISH
WHISKEY
Distinguished by its Delicacy of Flavour.
Lightness and Digestibility.
Exquisitely Mellow.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
DUBLIN.
Capital £1,100.000. E«td. 1849
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Are Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running Costs.
The “UNION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
RELIABLE and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
PRICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
MACK PARTITIONS
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
METALLIC Engine Packing
—— ■■■■ —— w— —■—
The only absolutely ALL METALLIC Engine Packing is manu-
factured by The United States Metallic Packing Co., Ltd., Bradford,
Yorkshire.
ENTIRELY AUTOMATIC AND STEAM SETTING.
Decreases the friction and Improves the Vacuum.
Works for years without attention or adjustment.
Quotations on application to Australian Agency:
T. K. STEANES, 37-45 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
belting.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADk.
ES2
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt, GUARANTEED. As a truard against inferior
imitations, look lor the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
M&
m
m
W+-k-:
f
r.
.
♦
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newall’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removable
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
With 1" Covering, the saving of heat
effected over Unlagged Pipe is from
80 to 85% Write for Catalogues .
8 SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 Pitt St., Sydney.
Prell’s Buildings. Melbourni
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria,
Our WORKSHOPS are fitted with MODERN High-Speed TOOLS.
We manufacture ELECTRIC ELEVATORS.
WARBURTON, FRANK!, LTD., 307-311 Kent Street, Sydney. 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
“A Fan for
Every
BUFFALO BLOWERS
fi*
m
The popularity of the “ BUFFALO ■ ’ is largely due to the growing' recog-
nition of the numerous and varied uses to which they are adaptable.
FOR MODERN SHOP AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT.
Ventilating and Removing Smoke, Steam, Fumes, Oases, etc.
Blowing and Cooling Overheated Rooms, Furnaces, Engine Rooms, etc.
Exhausting Shavings from Woodworking Plants and Dust from Abrasive and Buffing Wheels, etc.
Evaporating and Drying Purposes. Laundry work, etc.
i Call or write for Descriptive Catalogue—it will interest you.
PARKE
8 LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney-
Road-making & Quarrying Machinery
Stone Breakers
Crushing Rolls
Screening
Elevating
Conveying and
Loading Plants
Rock Drills
Quarry Bars
Explosives.
N.GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
