

embodiment of perfection
R. Gr. WAT3ES.INS «S£ CJO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BUSINESS MEN WHO TRAVEL
will find that our Head Office and Branches will readily assist them when they need
financial aid promptly and without tedious delay, on businesslike conditions. Uur
low rates of interest and very helpful terms appeal to discriminate business men.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. 8t I. CO. Limited
Head Offices 74 Castlereagh Street 74. Sydney,
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W A.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
r
v..
5^
L_
A.
a
£
S,™lWhisky
V v sv..* • .. _
3E3C O Kt A :Fl T.
,
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING >■
Guaranthkb
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
—A
11
I must have
IM
df
9
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
unke
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T.S., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney,
With PALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 Geo rge Street, Sydney.
gdf
gd
fg
df
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
ai
SII
' > ‘‘ ‘ ’
: ■■■■■
WHAT IS A PERFECT ROOF?
One that is absolutely waterproof, light in weight,
pleasant to look upon, harmonising with the architecture,
easy to handle anil lay, and durable to a degree that prac-
tically means everlasting.
There is only one roofing that fills all these conditions
to the letter, and that is WHITE MAETHOID (Pabco).
If you will drop us a postcard we will gladly send you a
sample and tell you more about it.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT 00., CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
gdf
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
S PE C lAL
S . V. O.
NewWav
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE.
There’s no hard work with a “New Way”
Engine. Couple it to. a pump, saw bench, win-
nower or any implement and prove it.
No water-cooling t nk or piping required,
simple, powerful, always ready, economical and
unaffected by weather conditions. Saves time,
trouble and expense. Guaranteed effective. Bosch
High Tension Magneto fitted.
Prom 2.1-H.P. Portable and Stationary.
Write for Catalogue.
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET
(Onp. Lands Office), SYDNEY.
a
4WI\
IBi
§M
helidon spa
The wonderful efficacy of HELSDON SPA STARKEYS LTD,, Agents,
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption, phuup st., Sydney, and Redfem
The Bulletin
V01.33.-Ao. 1703.]
[Thursday, October 3, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AUSTRALASIA ILLUSTRATED.
A Pictorial History of N.8.W., Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, West Australia Tasmania
Oceania, including- New Guinea and the islands in the Melanesian, Micrpnesian and Polynesian Groups!
1470 PAG Es,. SIZE 15 x 101 inches, with about 1000 HALF- and FULL-PAGE ttt.ttcitt? attci-mq Hi- - Q i n
OFFERED Ar i'? ts - Com P l | t ® in sixl T Parts. PUBLISHED PRICE, &7 IDs.
ES™ *SSu: or 7ISr d " » Sy<lneJ ’- ““*> “ SIX 12/6 to
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP., LTD., Booksellers, 258 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
$
ii
99
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC and
PROPHYLACTIC.
SUITABLE FOR OLD and YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of
special service to Lecturers, Public
Singers and Speakers, and, indeed,
to all who are called upon to use
their voices frequently for prolonged
periods.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers,
Hl3
DS
ON
Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., Limited,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY. Post Free on Receipt of Stamps.
The Red Page
English Literature, 1912
In the universities and the schools English
literature usually stops just where it should
begin; the text-books and the professors
omit the last half century or so. Just when
the student is becoming interested in what
the whole course of English literature is
leading up to, there is a blank; the many-
tributaried river peters out into a desert;
the brilliant procession beautiful with gor-
geous banners approaches the saluting-point
of the Now—and disperses—a mere tangled
mob. English literature ends in a grave;
the text-books decline critically to deal with
any force that is not dead. The historian
is safer in his judgment of Queen Anne than
of King O'Malley. There is something con-
cise and finished in a corpse; anybody can
run his critical foot-rule over a coffin ; and
there is no fear that its inhabitant will
refute our judgments or will creep out of
the pigeonhole wherein we have satisfactor-
ily buried him. Thus Eminent Citizens will
orate at public meetings about the great-
ness of Shakespeare (bones) ; but none of
them could give a critical pronouncement
on the place in the dramatic literature of
Australia that will be occupied by Louis
Esson. Thus, too, Sydney professors give
extension lectures on Browning (a corpse),
but decline to investigate and analyse the
meaning of Bernard O’Dowd. It is as diffi-
cult to estimate the place in literature of a
living writer, unless, of course, he is a dead
living writer like Kipling, as it is to say the
final neat word upon a volcano.. In a living
writer an explosion might occur at any
minute that would quite change his literary
shape. So the writers of text-books and the
professors simply lead our scholars to the
edge of the delectable land of modern litera-
ture—the literature of this decade, the litera-
ture of September 26, 1912—and hastily
write “Finis.”
It is admitted that unless literary text-
books were published every morning in the
year, with possibly an evening edition to catch
up with some new poet, it would be impossi-
ble for English literature to be quite up-to-
date. . At this very moment an unknown
poet in Dungog may be writing an imperish-
able ode, or photo-play, or “Cobra” ad. —
the literature of the future will have its own
forms; but even if he wirelessed his ode, or
gasp, to every literary review to-morrow, he
would have to wait a lustrum or so before he
got into a text-book and was allotted his
tentative place in Dungog and literature.
J*
lnto this unexplored critical country J. M.
Kennedy leads his well-equipped expedition.
His volume, English Literature, from 1880
to 1905 (Swift, per Sydney Book Club), is
admirably written; and he contrives to give
a useful tentative summing up of the main
tendencies of our own time. His division
into chapters, and the space he gives indi-
vidual writers enables us to give a graphic
diagram, of the main and subsidiary streams
of English literature since 1880, according
to the map of J. M. Kennedy. So, by indi-
cating in the size of type the relative im-
portance of each writer, as derived from the
space allotted to each author, we get a result
like this :—•
WALTER PATER
OSCAR WILDE
“THE YELLOW BOOK’’ SCHOOL
Max Beerbohm, Arthur Waugh, Hubert
Crackanthorpe, Lionel Johnson, Henry Har-
land, Arthur Symons, Ernest Dowson,
Aubrey Beardsley, Whistler,
SHAW
WELLS
GEORGE GISSING
W. B. Yeats, George Moore, John Davidson,
Fiona MacLeod, “ A.E.” (George Russell),
Francis Thompson, W. L. Courtney,
St. John Hankin, R. B. Cunninghame Graham, Richard
Te Gallienne, Laurence Binyon.
One name is missing that deserved a
place: Kipling. But Kennedy finds that, ex-
cept as a short-story writer, he is hardly
worth notice. As a poet, his verse is too
temporal, too timely. “Patriotism alone is
not sufficient excuse for a poem, and, unfor-
tunately, most of Mr. Kipling’s poetical
work is not distinguished by the imagination
we can find in men like Ernest Dowson,
Arthur Symons, or John Davidson.... But
as a short-story writer we need have no
hesitation in comparing him with the best
Russian or French masters.”
More astonishing, however, is the omission
of the names of Henry James, Conrad,
Hardy, Meredith and (possibly) Bennett.
But perhaps the author would not call these
writers “dynamic.”
Kennedy’s attitude to these contemporaries
of his is rather irritatingly lordly. His sym-
pathies are with “culture,” but culture occa-
sionally stoops to a sneer.
From the late ’9o’s onward we heard very
little of the literary, philosophical, political
or sociological movements which had been
initiated about the ’Bo’s. Prof. George
Samtsbury, Mr. Austin Dobson, and Mr.
Edmund Gosse have ceased to write with
their former fervor and vigor. Mr. George
Bernard Shaw and Mr. H. G. Wells have
gradually laid less and less emphasis upon
their former extreme socialistic opinions, and
instead of leading us towards the millennium,
they have settled down into wealthy and
thoroughly respectable members of the upper
bourgeoise. If Mr. George Moore and Mr.
W. B. Yeats have not become quite so suc-
cessful in a worldly sense, they do not at all
events write with the same enthusiasm and
passion as of yore. The romantic movement
of the ’Bo’s and ’9o’s, then, soon ex-
hausted itself. A few of its representatives,
like Dowson and Lionel Johnson, died sad
deaths; its foremost figure was put in gaol;
and others, reserved for a worse fate, became
respectable members of society.
Excellent text-book criticism, but open to
the explanation that these romantic leaders
have merely grown old. The romantic
movement belongs to the young, and as these
young writers have not yet crept into the
text-books, Kennedy has as yet no official
cognisance of them
The author does not discuss Shaw, but
Mister Shaw is quite a different person, of
whom it is, of course, possible to say rude
things like these :
All his life he has lacked hanpiness ; that
is to say, he has lacked artistic harmony and
unity, and however much his works may
interest or amuse us, we, as artists, are faced
with the fact that there is an inartistic bit-
terness and restlessness in almost every one
of Shaw’s characters, in almost every page
he wrote.... In spite of all Mr. Shaw’s es-
says on music aud the drama, however, the
bent of his mind was never imaginative, but
always scientific 1 myself would never
condemn Mr. Shaw’s plays as plays by say-
ing that they would undermine the founda-
tions of morality and lead to anarchy, etc.
It is sufficient to condemn them as plays by
saying that they are dull and ugly, and they
are dull and ugly in the first place because
they endeavor to propagate an idea, or to
show up some social injustice, which would
be better propagated or shown up in the
form of a Fabian tract or an essay. For
drama is the representation of some phase
of life by means of action, and Mr. Shaw’s
argumentative style, in the second place,
tends to do away with action altogether
There are, of course, popular elements in
most of Mr. Shaw’s plays. His wit is bitter
and venomous, and might perhaps be re-
garded as a kind of intellectual red pepper
or vinegar to help down the stodginess of the
sociological or economic problem around
which the play is written... .In spite of
these criticisms, however, Mr. Shaw must
have his due; we are indebted to him for
a good deal.... He has made English critics
familiar with various aspects of Continental
thought. .. .It was chiefly Shaw who made
Ibsen, Wagner, Schopenhauer and Nietzsche
familiar to a wide circle. He kept himself
in touch with every dynamic movement
abroad, whether in painting, music, philoso-
phy or economics. It is my personal belief
that Mr. Shaw entirely misunderstood vari-
ous phases of Nietzsche, that he was quite
capable of setting Wagner and Ibsen on a
level with him, and that he failed to per-
ceive the malign effect that the Scandinavian
drama was likely to exercise on art. Never-
theless the fact that he could take an in-
terest in these things at all sets him at once
on a higher level than his contemporaries.
.... From an artistic point of view we can-
not award Mr. Shaw any very high praise.
His works, I think, are destined to perish
before the century is up, partly because they
are formless, and partly because the subjects
his plays deal with are ephemeral... .Though
we must condemn Mr. Shaw as an artist,
however, my sympathies are entirely with
him when I see him pitted against the dull,
stupid, Philistine British public.
Mr. Wells [again the- depreciatory Mis-
ter!] is anything you like—an interesting
personality, a clever writer, a man of bril-
liant scientific imagination, an ardent social
reformer, a leader of English thought, even
—but his works are not artistic works ; not
at ail events in the sense in which we speak
of the works of a novelist like Fielding as
artistic works We may describe them as
the works of a seljf-made artist... .We must
assume that Mr. Wells takes a remarkably
low view of art when he suggests that the
coming ‘ artist” who writes novels is going
to discuss” problems, especially problems
of conduct. But worse than this is to fol-
low, for Mr. Wells tells us that this novelist
of his will not teach, but plead. This is
indeed the very antithesis of art. Art com-
mands. It gives you an imperious message,
but it never pleads... .Mr. Wells wishes the
novelist to discuss various aspects of moral-
ity ; for religion itself and the relations of the
sexes are the two main features summed up
m the word “conduct.” To refute Mr. Wells
it is hardly necessary to quote two of his
contemporaries against him, Oscar Wilde
Arthur Symons, who both held very
definite views on the relationship which art
bears to morality. The moment a novelist
begins to discuss conduct he ceases to be
imaginative, and he Ceases to be an artist.
. Kennedy finds that Wells is not interested
m men except insofar as they serve to illus-
trate a sociological or political principle.
(Surely he forgets Kipps?) And Wells’
women are all “appallingly sexual and hun-
ger for babies.” (Why shouldn’t they?)
And he insists that the importance Wells
attributes to sex is merely a feature of the
middle-class intellect. His humanity is
merely the middle-class humanity, his senti-
ment and idealism merely the reflex of the
sentimental and idealistic middle-classes to
which he belongs. (This is “culture” heav-
ing a nasty brick: we may confidently expect
to see it rebound in Wells’s next novel.)
Kennedy permits himself a little pro-
phecy :
So far as the great public is concerned,
English literaure of the next few years will,
it should seem, be dominated by the novel;
and most of the novel writers will follow the
models of Mr. Wells. Shaw, now having
become a popular dramatist, will doubtless
influence the theatre, particularly through
the one-act play. I cannot see at the moment
any signs of successors to Dowson and
Symons. Crackanthorpe’s tradition may be
carried on; but so-called realists should re-
member that realism is not confined to the
seamy side of life. In the course of the next
few years Nietzsche will, beyond all doubt,
become a potent force in England, as he has
long been on the Continent, and with his
further study here, critics, it is to be hoped,
will come to recognise the sharp distinction
between aristocratic and democratic 'litera-
ture ; form characterising the first no less
than absence of form characterises\ the
second; the one being art, and the other
pseudo-art.
The Montessori Method
Everyone of us has a vivid remembrance
of the utter futility, the long drudgery, the
painstaking muddle of our school-days. Only
when we left school did it dawn upon us
that our education was about to begin.
Schools taught us nothing of value in life
except the elementary, uninteresting facts,
and in teaching those they contrived to instil
in us a deep and persistent hatred of learn-
ing. But now the renaissance of learning
has come—and from the land of the Dago.
Dr. Maria Montessori has organised educa-
tion on new lines, simply by her study of
the psychology of the child and her intuition
and ingenuity as a teacher. The result is
that from a few magazine articles the know-
ledge of her revolutionary method has been
eagerly assimilated by the world. In N.S.W.,
for instance, the new theory is being ade-
quately tested. All this before the inventor’s
book had been translated into English. Now
The Montessori Method (Stokes, New York)
comes to explain in detail the meaning and
the method of this revolution in child educa-
tion. This is no theoretical treatise ; Maria
Montessori has ample proofs to show of the
astounding progress made by the tiny chil-
dren educated on her rational lines.
It is impossible to indicate even generally
the contents of this interesting book—the
Magna Charta of the child’s rights. The
fundamental principle laid down is that of
the liberty of the pupil—such . liberty as
shall permit a development of individual,
spontaneous manifestations of the child’s
nature. _ And liberty is activity. “We do
not consider a child an individual disciplined
only when he has been rendered as artificially
silent as a mute and as immovable as a
paralytic.” It will come as a surprise to
the average parent and the average school-
teacher to learn that perfect discipline holds
in the Montessori schools of children from
three to seven years, without any system of
rewards or of punishments, and with each
child occupied at his particular game. Col-
lective lessons are abolished. Children,
it has been discovered are —children. Our
schools still regard them as diminutive men.
The materials by means of which the
child is assisted in its natural development
are remarkable for their ingenuity and their
simplicity. The child is led to develop first
the muscular-tactile_ sense: the sense of
touch and that of vision are systematically
educated by means of what are regarded by
the child as the most delightful games with
the most entrancing toys. The Montessori
children learn how to dress and wash them-
selves, and how to move gracefully, at ages
when the usual child is a mere wailing,
clumsy piece of perplexed and irritated pro-
toplasm. Most remarkable of all its achieve-
ments of this systein is the ease and certainty
with which the child learns to write and
read. The preliminary training is so scien-
tifically graduated that one day, without
ever having written before, the child finds
that he can write, and does write, and keeps
on writing in a fury of delight. The scene
when the first Montessori class of children
suddenly broke out into writing is drama-
tically described by the delighted author,
bhe explains this sudden achievement of a
new faculty by showing that the child,
trained on her methods, possesses all the
movements necessary for writing. When it
thought of writing, it merely wrote"; and it
could write any word, and in a caligraphy
that w °uld shame most of the contributors
to The Bulletin. For these children had
not to undergo that tedious pothook and
hanger preparation that caused every one
of us to curse the name of Vere Foster. And
it turns out now that there was not the
slightest need for Vere Foster.
As to the speed at which writing can be
taught to infants, hearken to Maria Mon-
tessori :
“Yh e average time that elapses between
'•he first trial of the preparatory exercises
a ?d the first written word is, for children
ot four years, from a month to a
month and a half. With children of
five years, the period is much shorter,
being about a month. But one of
°h r pupils learned to use in writing
all the letters of the alphabet in 20 days.
Children of four years, after they have been
in school for two months and a half, can
write any word from dictation, .and can pass
to writing with ink in a notebook. Our little
ones are generally experts after three
months’ time. Indeed, writing is one of the
easiest and most delightful of all the con-
quests made by the child As to the exe-
cution, our children write well from the
moment in which they begin Our little
pupils, spontaneously and with a marvellous
security, write entire words without lifting
the pen, maintaining perfectly the slant of
the letters and making the distance between
each letter equal.”
Reading comes later—usually a bare fort-
night later. These children, when they grow
up, will have an extraordinary subtlety of
sensorial perception. But there is no attempt
made by this system to produce prodigies
of learning. They are not self-conscious
prigs, but well-mannered, independent and
happy kids.
The introduction of this system into the
State kindergartens is the first move. The
private kindergartens must next be invaded.
But the main obstacle against which the
new method is liable to be wrecked is that
which Maria Montessori met with in her
own first efforts. The children take with
avidity to this new sort of game; but the
teacher, trained in the old foolish methods,
is harder to educate. First, she must be
taught not to teach. The educators must
first be educated. And the routine-sodden
teacher will not find the new method easy
to acquire. The steady study of this re-
markable book may do much to begin her
own education.
The One-Act Play Competition
H. C. Coghlan writes:—
The “Red Page” of 5/9/T2 expressed a
desire to start an Australian One-Act Play
Competition, and I desire to announce my
hearty approval of the “One-Act” part of the
idea. It has been my firm conviction that
the Australian playwright of two, three
or more acts was making a blind man’s
bloomer in obstinately endeavoring to spread
himself over the entire programme, despite
the many managerial discouragements pol-
itely lavished upon him. All along, it has
been obvious to everyone, save the persistent
Australian writer of professionally-unacted
plays, that “Australian” managements, hav-
ing the world to pick from. Could Do With-
out the A.P. and Were Not Taking Any
Risks. They had reared, developed and estab-
lished a “popular” craze for Imported Stuff,
ranging from piffley to passable and back
again, and they have never even bothered to
prove their vaunted “willingness to con-
sider,” by taking the most likely Australian
scripts in hand and re-shaping them to suit
their own ideas of payable production, as is
done in London. Good Australian plays
have missed production for want of a con-
ference between author and management, on
matters practically of stage detail, of which
the latter must have the better knowledge.
Good play-frames or plays, only a few cuts
and touches short of production standard,
instead of being given every chance, have
been read-—when the common courtesy of
perusal has not been refused —always with
the anti-Australian bias pre-dooming the best
effort. In face of all those obstacles, it
would have been wiser for the Australian
aspirant to have long since tackled the one-
act play. Certainly, very few curtain-raisers
are used during the year, but I feel sure that
had the local output' been confined to one-act
plays in the past, the record of acceptance
and professional rendition would have been
more encouraging than it is to-day. It could
not have been less so. And the author of a
proved-good one-act play would have some
chance of being asked for a longer one.
11. C. Coghlan goes on to criticise the con-
ditions of the competition. He asks who
Mr. Gregan McMahon is, and for one who
claims to be interested in the Australian
play, his ignorance that McMahon is the
soul of the Melb. Repertory Theatre seems
incredible. Coghlan finds, too, the award in-
adequate. So do v/e. And the fact that the
“author’s fee” of £2 2s. carries with it the
strong probability of production by one or
more of the three Repertory theatres in Aus-
tralia does not seem to him worth while. He
regards production by a repertory theatre
as a cul de sac. We do not. And one, at
at least, of these organisations pays authors
fees. He moves as an amendment that “the
theatrical managements of Australia com-
bine in offering, through the “Red Page” and
other media, three prizes of £5O each for the
best practical Australian one-act play, all
script to be forwarded to Blank, at Blank
Theatre, under pen names. Well, it’s up to
the theatrical managements of Australia.
His further amendment that the three Reper-
tory theatres should combine to offer £5O
through this page for the best Australian
one-acter, has about as much chance of ac-
ceptance as the first proposal. The Reper-
tory associations are doing excellent work,
for very little pay : in producing Australian
plays at all. But, if Coghlan insists, it’s also
up to them. Meantime, the offer of two
guineas, “author’s fee,” for the best Aus-
tralian one-acter, with the promise of favor-
able consideration, with a view to produc-
tion, by the Repertory organisations, is re-
peated.


xtae
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
LTD., as manufacturers of FINE
FURNITURE, have ever striven to
combine Beauty and Utility in
everything produced in their Red-
fern Cabinet Works, and present
examples of the way Australian
capital and labor have been united
in converting Australian timbers
into articles of use and ornament
for Australian Homes. We invite
inspection of Australian-made Fur-
niture shown at the
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM.
The Furniture, Carpet and Bed-
stead Show Rooms are acknow-
ledged the finest in Australia, cov-
ering an area of nearly 50,000
superficial feet, well lighted and
lofty. Here are examples of
MODERN ART RENAISSANCE,
CHIPPENDALE, SHERATON,
ROCOCO, and other styles of Fur-
niture, and while the claims of
High Art in Modern Furniture are
not forgotten, neither is the neces-
sity for the cheaper, stronger made
and more useful kinds ignored.
In this announcement we enumerate the details of a four-roomed house, completely furnished
for £lOO. The list was prepared for the Proprietors of the “ Australian Home Journal,” and
the Publishers of that Ladies’ Fashion Paper have adopted the £lOO House of Furniture as the
First Prize in a Competition they are conducting, particulars of which may be obtained at the
“A.H.J.” Office, 93 York St., Sydney. Any of the goods illustrated may be purchased separately.
Dining Room Completely Furnished for £37/12/6
m
pi 25D
IE
The Dining Room.
£ s. d.
1 Oak Sideboard, 4ft. with
Large Bevelled Mirror in
Back, 2 Drawers, and
ample Cupboard Space 8 15 0
1 Extension Dining Table,
6ft. x 3ft. 3in. when open 3 7 6
2 Arm and 6 Ordinary
Chairs, upholstered in
Pantasote 9 0 0
1 Dinner Waggon, 3ft. 3in.,
3 Open Shelves, on Castors 2 7 6
1 Overmantel to match... 1 17 6
2 Pictures, 10/- 1 O 0
Linoleum for room, say
12 xl5 1 15 0
1 Fender and set Fire Irons 0 17 6
1 Mohair Hearth Rug... 0 1.1 6
1 Mohair Door Mat 0 3 6
1 Cornice Pole, stained Wal-
nut or Cedar, with Ends.
Rings and Brackets, and
1 Pair Large Curtains. . 0 18 6
1 Holland Blind, complete 0 6 6
1 Tapestry Table Cover .. 1 O 0
1 “White” Sewing Machine
(N 0.24), Handsome Wal-
nut Cabinet Woodwork,
2 Drawers, Automatic
Drop Head, and Full Set
of Attachments ...... 512 6
£37 12 6
Drawing Room Completely Furnished for £22/14/- Bedroom Completely Furnished for £2B/171- >
mVi'Viw
Ve=
HJ
K.l
rm
4-xfofiP.
&
2s:
SL£
Hi
: a
r. c ,-‘
11
vt/msa/na
WMMk
N
ffid
dm
s-9
£ s. d.
1 Suite of 7 pieces, contain-
ing Setee, 2 Occasional
Chairs, 2 Low Chairs, and
2 High Chairs 9 15 0
1 Octagon Occasional Table 0 13 6
1 Handsome Overmantel ... 2 19 6
4 Pictures (various), at 10/6
each 2 2 0
1 Axminster Carpet Square,
10ft. 6in. x Oft 3 17 6
1 Mohair Door Mat 0 3 6
The Kitchen.
£
1 Dresser, enclosed bottom.... 2
1 Table, 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in.,
Drawer 0
2 All Wood Chairs, 4/3 eachy. O
Linoleum for room, say 12 x 12,
3/6 yard
1 Holland Blind, complete with
Spring Roller
3 Enamelled Saucepans—l at
1/9, 1 at 2/4, 1 at 2/10
1 Carpet Broom
1 Hair Broom
1 Banister Brush
1 Fire Shovel
1 Dustpan
1 Iron Kettle
1 Scrub Brush
1 Galvanised Bucket
1 Set Mrs. Pott’s Irons
1 Set 3 Jugs
2 Glass Salts at 6d
1 White & Gold Tea Set,
consisting of 40 pieces
6 Glass Tumblers
1 Glass Jug
1 Electroplate Cruet (4 bots.)
6 Dinner Knives (Mosley’s) ....
6 Dessert Forks, C. Quality
(Dixon’s)
6 Dessert Knives (Mosley’s)...
6 Dessert Spoons, C Quality
(Dixon’s) '.
6 Tea Spoons, C Quality (Dixon’s)
6 E.P. Table Forks, C Quality
(Dixon’s)
2 Table Spoons, C. Quality
(Dixson’s). 2/- each
1 Ansonia, Walnut 8-Day Clock,
Loud Gong
O
o
o
0
0
0
0
s. d.
0 0
18
8
8 0
6
6 11
1 5
4 6
1 7
O 6
0 10
4 0
12
2
1
12
5
8 4
4 8
11 3
4 0
11 6
£lO 16 6
£ s. d.
1 Brass Rail Fender and Set
Irons 1 0 0
1 Mohair Hearth Rug 0 11 6
1 Cornice Pole, stained Wal-
nut or Cedar, with Ends,
Rings and Brackets, and 1
Pair Large Curtains 0 18 6
2 Holland Blinds, complete
with Spring Rollers (6/6) 0 13 0
£22 14 0
1 Oak Bedroom Suite, con- £ s. d.
sisting of Wardrobe, 3ft.
6in., with Bevelled Mirror
Door and Long Drawer be-
neath ; 3ft. Toilet Table,
with 3 Long Drawers, Bev-
elled Mirror, 24 x 18in.,
with Swing Side Reflectors ;
3ft. Washstand, with Rouge
Marble Top and Art Tile
Back; and 2 Cane-seated
Chairs 15 10 0
1 Toilet Set for Washstand 0 16 6
1 Italian Bedstead, 4ft. 6in.,
2in. parallel Posts, Black
and Brass, 87/6; Strong
Wire Mattress, 21/-; Set
Good Kapok Bedding, 48/- 7 16 6
Kitchen Completely Furnished for £lO/16/6
I
r//)lp4
SB
'# 5?
. -
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
REIGN SUPREME.
f s. d.
Linoleum for room, say 12
x 12 1 8 0
2 Axminster Bedside Mats, 7/6 0 15 0
1 Mohair Door Mat 0 3 6
1 Cornice Pole, stained Wal-
nut or Cedar, with Ends,
Rings, and Brackets, and 1
Pair of Large Curtains.... 0 12 6
1 Water Bottle and Glass. .013
1 Pair Blankets .......... 0 15 0
1 Pair Sheets 0 5 6
2 Pillow Slips, 7|d 0 1 3
2 Towels, 9d 0 1 6
1 White Quilt 0 10 6
£2B 17 0
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Furni-
ture stands in a class by itself, and
is free from all the defects associ-
ated with the product of unskilled
labor and indifferent materials.
Several completely Furnished and
Decorated Rooms are arranged in
our Furniture Department, to
assist customers in making choice
of suitable furnishings, and they
can see at a glance the general
effect much better than by select-
ing the several items of Furniture
in different places.
Country patrons should consult
our Complete Illustrated Guide to
Furnishing; also “UNDERFOOT,”
which illustrates in natural colors
many of the Choice Css-pets and
Linoleums offered in the Carpet
Department. Write for copies,
posted free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS U
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
..
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


“The Lancet” on
Virginia
CIGARETTES
“They are leaf and nothing but leaf, uninjured or soiled
by mechanical treatment. Th& specimens analysed show
that due hygienic precautions are observed during
their manufacture.” 1 .
' '
The perfect hygienic conditions
under which they are made, ahd the
sublime quality of the tobacco used
make them the most healthy
smoking that men can enjoy
10 20
6d. 1 /■
\VINfREB"
Cigarettes are obtainable at all Leading
Tobacconists, Hotels, Clubs, etc., throughout
Australia.
Sole Manufacturers of Winfred Cigarettes
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.,
Britain’s Greatest High-class
Cigarette Factory,
LONDON, Eng.
Vi
X
Pi
TT
g
“The Top Notch of Scotch
An ideal beverage, soft and
delicate, and of exquisite
flavour.
df
// Scotch
Whisky
Connoisseurs proclaim it
mellow, exhilarating and beneficial.
The DISTILLERS /"'OMPANY, ¥ imited, Edinburgh.
i wu.u. f'anifal Kmnloved.
Largest Scotch Whisky
DistiUera in the World.
Capital Employed,
£3.000,000.
MELBOURNE) 52, William Street.
SYDNEY: Angel Place.
“The Religious Editor” : The other morn-
ing, when the sun was high and the birds
were singing, came a small boy tapping at
my door. He bore in one hand the crumpled
pages of an obscure Wowser publication, and
in his rosebud mouth a verbal message from
his employer, a wild Sydney artist, who, he
said, was then engaged taking flying leaps
through the ragged remains of his master-
piece. This was the tender little story that
had stung the man of paint and canvas: —
An artist’s modeller of rare ability found himself
stranded in Sydney. Foiled in every attempt to
secure a position, he set to work on a piece of statu-
ary in plaster of Paris, representing “Paradise before
the Fall.” Alas, the piece was of a class such as
cannot be described in these pages. He got an offer
of £6O for it. It was finished on a Sunday morning.
That evening he was strangely led to attend our
“People’s Service.” The sermon that night so im-
pressed him that he went direct to his room and
broke the statuary to pieces. “I have done right,”
said he afterwards to a friend, “though it cost me
much to do it. And now, see how God has rewarded
me. Within 24 hours I received letters from
England, enclosing money to take me home, and I
am off by the next mail to start afresh in the Old
Country.”
The well-meaning but intellectually hopeless
Wowser must be a continual source of an-
noyance to the Supreme Artist who conceived
the Universe and that lost masterpiece we
know as Paradise. The Wowser’s awful
clothes, incredible whiskers and drab beliefs
indicate his complete unfitness for a world
that is all light and beauty—except where
someone has put up a sewer shaft or a hid-
eous tabernacle where people sing through
their noses. His proper environment is a
bleak cindery place that is dirty grey where
it isn’t pitch black —a place where “Alas!”
sounds appropriate, and a sigh seems nat-
ural, and where sustained howls are not out
of place. That environment is Sheol —not
the bright, blazing Sheol of our grand-
fathers, but the cold, deserted wreck of the
gay old foundry that went insolvent and
closed down when the energetic Devil ab-
sconded with the coal money and started in
the vaudeville missionary line.
* * * *
Something from Hobart about a mud-
hole :
Hobart’s historic rivulet is not likely to rest
quiet in its bed much longer. It has already been
moved on more than once, but this time there will
have to be a serious eviction, as it spills into the
Derwent, right in the midst of the new harbor im-
provement works.
Various schemes have been mooted, the one most
in favor being that of carrying the waters off by
way of the Domain, and, in the subsequent improve-
ments, wiping out Wapping, Hobart’s only slum,
which used at one time to be flooded every time the
creek ran high, and whence a coffin (occupied) was
once swept irrecoverably out to sea.
It was this creek (which, by the way, formed the
subject of the General Order that was the second
bit of printing done in the colony) that, in con-
junction with the depth of the harbor, decided
Collins in fixing the site of Hobart. “A continual
run of water,” says Ivnopwood, “which is very
Excellent; it comes from the lofty Mountain, much
resembling Table Mountain at the Cape of Good
Hope.”
At that time the outfall was near the present
gasholder, in Macquarie-street, where, before the
land was reclaimed, the shores of the cove ran, on
one side to Macquarie Point, and on the other to the
sand spit connecting with Hunter’s Island, now
covered by the Old Wharf, but formerly the site of
the Government stores, and the place where the head
of Hunter, the bushranger, was exhibited on a pole
or clothes-prop. This interesting occurrence, be it
said, had nothing to do with the naming of the
island, which was <Hunter’s for many years before
the outlaw’s time. When smuggling was in vogue,
houses backing on the creek found many an oppor-
tunity to turn a dishonest thrippeny, and the little
Steam Packet Hotel, now squatting in the shadow of
jam factories, and shortly to be engulfed, is said
to have known a lot that was profitable and unlawful
on the subject.
In a somewhat rare book —“Varieties of Vice-
Regal Life”—Lady Denison, wife of one of Tassy’s
comparatively early Governors, gives a lively ac-
count of the floods of ’54. There had been a spell
of drought, as droughts go in Tasmania. Then a big fire
licked through Elizabeth-street, sending rows of wood-
en buildings up’in smoke and snuff, and leaving their
debris to choke the rivulet. In due time the drought
broke—with emphasis—and masses of accumulated
rubbish, swept by the flood, careered down the creek,
pounding the smaller bridges to pieces and battering
at the more substantial structure of Wellington
Bridge. A householder, whose dwelling abutted on
the threatened edifice, rushed to Government House
through the rain, and unearthed the Governor. The
latter mustered a gang of convicts, and came down
to personally direct them in the work of salvage.
One or two men were drowned and a lot of damage
was done. At present the “Crick” leads a tame
and mostly subterranean existence. Leaving the Cas-
cades and the brewery, it dives unobtrusively under
the town, with the smell of beer entangled in its
hair, and the arches which hide it from view carry
streets on their backs. Its deflection will give Hobart
some more valuable space to build on.
“The Religious Editor”: What about a
League for the Suppression of Outrageous
Female Hats? The suburban lady who con-
structs a cheap burlesque of a hatter’s freak
and carries it solemnly round on her head is
dreadfully numerous. Usually she is ob-
served sitting grimly on the opposite seat of
your tram; and she always glances round
suspiciously to make sure no one is grinning
at the wild joke on her head. She naturally
feels nervous about it, because she is per-
fectly well aware that it is a Daring Experi-
ment —something which will either strike
beholders speechless with admiration and get
talked about, or provoke scornful comments.
Great agony of mind and back parlor labor
go to the making of these portable accidents ;
and they are borne into the rush and turmoil
of town in the spirit which animated the
young man who bore the banner with the
strange device up the mountain side. It is
possible that men, given the same variety of
stuffs and architectural license, would oon-
struct equally hideous head-coverings. For-
tunately, though, all their hats are heaped
up cheaply to pattern by specialists, so they
are unable to build themselves nightmares, or
to translate their vain imaginings into con-
crete form. The suburbanette who sets out to
enslave the city with a hat like a camel’s
hump swathed in yelvet, and decorated with a
large feather and two green roses, is a public
nuisance, because she is the bearer of an
elaborate jest which must not be laughed at
on any account. The most unreasonable and
riotous and generally incredible examples
nearly always roost above a miserably anx-
ious countenance upon which is written large
the query: “What do they think of my
Hat?” This sort of tiling should be sup-
pressed, hence the suggested League. Per-
haps tbe Pure Food or Noxious Weeds Act
might be amended to include all hats con-
demned by the Minister for Grace and Ele-
gance.


WARN,ING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
AEROGEN CAB GENERATOR.
WARNING.
It has become necessary
for us to Warn Buyers
that all Air Gas
Machines are not
Aerogen Machines.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
Dear Sirs Forsayth, North Queensland,
two m el Hotpl« n wtfT 1 P urcha f d f !?m you a 90-light Aerogen Gas Planfto’illumtnate
sunerleriimr Kln % a Pubhc ? all > and Aerated Water Factory at Forsayth,
resulted in’ snhKtJnHoT^oa^ 6116 .^ e ” e !' ators ' lan very pleased with the change, which has
“’¥£ , S3..“irxi«'‘Aaii,? ,iB “ ** d *» »—»• -
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.) E. B. TORPY.'
"Borriyalloak,” Skipton,
Dear Sirs, — July 26, 1910.
I am pleased to inform you that the Aerogen Gas Machine I have had in use here for,
as you know, about nine months —through a whole summer and the worst part of the winter- —
is most efficient, and 1 find the machine very simple to work. The li&ht is perfect, pure
white and steady. The mantles give no more trouble than ordinary gas mantles, and are
pimple to replace.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) ERNEST G. AUSTIN.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE. WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
(
The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Hd.
NEW CALEDONIA: A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years * success,
In HEALTH or SICKNESS
Take regularly the ‘Allenburys’Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute add boiling water only.
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
gdf
»
THE LONE HANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
Pumping Plant for Broken Hill Water Supply
will consist of
WOLF Patent Superheated
R.\Va/f /Miadeburj-Bucb
I
330
/
n....... jgm
HP" . : I
■M
MsE,'. . u ,
.tv- ■ •
iitoi. 3.',nil
Further Particulars and Catalogues of these
Plants from Australian Representatives—
Steam Plants
driving Gwynne Centrifugal Pumps
through Citroen Machine Cut
Helical Gears.
Tenders for this contract were invited
throughout the world, and after
exhaustive enquiries the Public Works
Department have decided to instal
the above plant.
The chief features of this plant are
Economy, Absolute Reliability and
Reasonable First_Cost.
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 14i
gdf
g
•22 Long R.F., and ’22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
For -22 Short R.F.,
2flb. , a
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES —PISTOLS —TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
„ , Write. fnv latest Catalogue to
Order, through your DeaJei.
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia.
Co
[4
dfg
df
STONEHENGE
suggests vast strength
and solidity, qualities
which have been evinced
in a remarkable-degree
in the Tyres manu-
factured by The Avon
Indiaßubber Co., Ltd.,
and which explain the
origin of the Avon
trade mark.
Their great factory at Melksham, near
Stonehenge, in Wiltshire, England, is
unexcelled throughout the world for
modernity and perfection of equipment,
and every tyre produced is an embodi-
ment of the finest skill and experience
applied to the highest grades of material
AVON TYRES
The British tyres that rule the road and give sound service longest.
AVON
Trade Mark.
Other
Specialities
of this Firm
include :
Mechanical Rubber
for Railways.
Avon Buffer and Draw-
bar Springs, Brake
Materials, Body
Fittings, Valves, Hose
etc., specially adapted
for use in the tropics.
Contractors to the
principal State Rail-
ways.
Cycle and Motor
Cycle Tyres.
Wi h special rubber
treads in several
grades, made specially
to withstand the effects
of hot olimates.
For Motor Cycle Covers.
Clinched-on. A special
combination ot Rubber
and Steel Studs placed
alternately round the
tread. Hexagon
rubber-studded, round
rubber - studded and
fluted patterns. Thick
tough treads and extra
strong casings.
Solid Tyres for Motors, Sc.
Avon Band Tyres for
passenger ’busses and
other heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on sections
from 2 4-in. to 5-in.,
suitable for the lighter
type of motor vehicles
up to 2-ton vans. Solid
tyres for Carriages,
Cabs, Rickshas, &c.
Golf Balls.
Made up on a special
centre which forms the
nucleus for the winding
of Para tape. This
arrangement produces
a ball which flies very
true and is especially
suitable for expert
players.
Avon Ball, 2/* each.
Nova Ball, 1/3 each.
AVON INDIA RUBBER CO., LTD.,
= M ELKS HAM, ENGLAND. =====
Branches at London, Bristol, Birmingham. Manr-hoster and Glasgow.
Cable Codes: • • A.B.C. 5* Edition ” and " Western Union.* h? C? PANNIFAX, Melbourne.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Ui-eu exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and hv all the'Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 3fi Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
gdf
CHICAGO
Will Anprrpe ™ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking-:
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German, Italian, Spanish, 1/ <
each language; Speeches and Toasts for all occasions, 1/1;" v ® r y Mat ‘
His Own Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of Vital Bower,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5-/4 ; Macfadden s Sweet-
hearts for Lives, 5/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, mustratea,
7d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Book of Love Letters, 1/-; How to
Woo and Win, 1/1; Astrology Made Easy, 1/1 ; Money-Making Secrets,
1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1; Eight Popular Farces, 1/1;
Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues,
1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1; “How Old Mose Counted the Eggs and
116 Other Humorous Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dramatic Recitations,
1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen” and other Comic Recitations, 1/1;
Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conundrums and Riddles, 1/1;
Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and Clairvoyance,
1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1; How to . Teach Animal
Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1;
Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6; New 1912 edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New Tricks with Cards, 1/-;
House Painting, Paperhanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/1; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor,
1/-; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-.
iO~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
3] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
B.S.A.
MOTOR CYCLES
Are winning all the World over !
NINE of the greatest British Motor Cycling events were recently
won by riders of the B.S.A. Motor Cycles. oca
In the London to Edinburgh and back ride one B.b A
competed against 104 starters °n other makes, of whom only
thirty-two finished, the B.S.A. gaining the Gold hi "es SecurTd
ingham to Lands End ride, riders ot the B.S.A. machines
two Q uarter j y Trials another B.S.A. won the Gold Medal.
In the MCU (Ireland) Hill Climb, B.S.A. riders won hirst and
Fastest Time in'both Private and Open classes At
BSA’s won the Five Miles Scratch and the Fifty Miles Handicap.
B ' S ' A Bel7as?and District Hill Climb, one B.S.A. entered and won
In Japan, the first Motor Cycle Trial ever held has just been
WOtl In'New S Ze'aland B.S.A.’s won First, Second and Third places
in the Southland Petrol Consumption Test against all other m
B.S.A. also won Championship running 216 to the gaUo .
In Victoria a B.S.A. recently broke the 24-hours Australian
ROad ln N.s"w.aß.S.A. stands equal first in the first two rounds of the
L.M.C. Hill Climb just held. These and other successes prove that .
B.S.A. 1912 Models are the fastest and most reliable Machines m ,
and every intending motor cyclist should call on the nearest B.s. .
Agent, or send for fully Illustrated Catalogue.
New Models on view at each of the Australian Agencies
VICTORIA : MILLEDGE BROS., Post
• Office Place, Melbourne
NEW SOUTH WALES : BURNETT &
BARKELL Ltd., Castlereagh St., Sydney
SOUTH AUSIRALIA : J. N. TAYLOR
& CO., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND : CANADA CYCLE
& MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane
TASMANIA : H. H. SMITH, Lonsdale
St., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA : MORTLOCK
BROS., Queen Street, Perth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyre?. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORD€RN SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
i
r JL
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for mem, women and children.
SOLD BY ALl HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. NIORLEY and GEO. BRETTct <* vO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
gd
fg
The efficient disinfectant.
Izal is the pioneer of modern high-power dis-
infectants. It is a scientific discovery of vital
importance to national health. No disease germs
can live —no epidemic spread —where Izal is used.
It is death to all bacteria.
Izal costs a little, but saves a tremendous lot. Get a
gallon drum —sufficient for making 400 gallons of efficient
disinfecting fluid.
fd
IkkmmwUmmmm
issassr
2U.
JTTL A^>nn
is the guaranteed disinfectant
of unrivalled strength. It has
been officially adopted through*
out the British Empire.
Write for Free Booklet, " Practical
Disinfection.
Agents:
T, K. STEANES,
37-43 Pitt St.. Sydney.
Mixes equally well in salt,
brackish, or fresh water
-T4
l eXS.
chamber


ffl
f Every cough makes your throat
more raw and Irritable. Every
cough congests the lining mem-
brane of your lungs. Cease tear-
ing your throat and lungs in this
way. Take
Auer's
From the first dose the quiet and
rest begin; the tickling in the
throat gradually subsides; and
nature completes the cure. Sold
in three sizes. Consult your doc-
tor freely, and follow his advice.
Any good doctor will tell you
that no medicine can do its best
work if the bowels are consti-
pated. Ask your doctor if he
knows anything better than Ayer’s
Pills for correcting this sluggish-
ness of the liver. Dose, only one
pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AYER St 00.,
Lowell, Maes., TJ. 8. A.
m
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In ail countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877|
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurlefc
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
g. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Hoad, London, Eng.
“GOLCRYST”
IS
USEFUL
By purifying the blood, GOECRYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GOECRYST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Eiquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Fackets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Free sample
sent by proprietors, Bo cite, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:—W.A., Neale, Con-
stable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,”
Adelaide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney, ‘ [2
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR '
COUGHS .
eg
FOR
COLDS .
Publit Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat "Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for v OWBRIDGE’S”-
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T, OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL, ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
D
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GORDRN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. -4> MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,' N. S.W.
OBTAIN A PERFECT FIGURE!
YOU CAN WEIGH WHAT YOU SHOULD
I] //////////A
m
m
TOO THIN
WOMEN.
If you are
fl a t-chested,
thin, run
down and scraggly—even if you
never had a nicely-rounded
bosom, Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-food
will build you up and develop
your figure. Does your mirror
mock you? Flesh-food will re-
move the faults in your figure
by rounding out and developing
the deficient places. Put up in
Tablet form, it is easy to use and
pleasant to take, and, if desired,
may be taken secretly. Taken un-
der our directions, it will work
wonders, for your appearance.
In many eases bust measure-
ments have been increased by over
ten inches, and the weight over five
pounds weekly. Other cases have
shown an increase in weight of
even a pound a day. The average
bust increase desired is about six inches, and is
readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to
the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable
figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to
attenuated women. Results Guaranteed.
TOO FAT
PEOPLE.
Excess fat in-
jur e s your
health, im-
pedes your movements, and
makes you the butt of your
unfeeling normal-weight friends.
People who have been fat, and
are now reduced to normal,
think other fat people ridicu-
lous.
Not alone does excess fat in-
jure your health and endanger
your existence, it absolutely de-
stroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why
do you stay fat? “FATCURE”
positively removes excess fat,
and will restore your spoiled
figure to decent and pleasing
proportions, and is always a
sure and lasting cure for
obesity and corpulency. A few
doses improves your breathing
wonderfully, and the course of
treatment will cure you.
It is the only successful, and, at the same
time, harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been
discovered. Its efficacy has been undeniably de-
monstrated in thousands of successfully treated
cases. It is totally and absolutely non-poison-
ous, and can in no wise work any injury to the
general health; though it often reduces excess
weight by as much as a pound a day.
gdf
WE SUPPLY FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “FLESH-FOOD " or “ FATCURE.”
Send 2d. stamp, and say which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
“BUST” to thin people. “OBESITY” to fat ones. Be sure to say which sample you want.
No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. Write or call to-day.
THE WATWORTH FALL!ERE ASSN., 1103 Ash St., Sydney, (aisos)
r**
9*
it
W*.
Aal9
Underwear.
The all-Australasian-
wool underwear with
the softness of silk. And unshrinkable too!
The most delicate and tender skins will not be irritated by s£222*
It has the softness of silk at a fraction of the price. And s£222*
is unshrinkable. No matter how often it goes to the laundry it
will retain its original size. If it doesn’t the makers will replace
the garment. "s£222* wear costs no more than the ordinary,
[ and as it is so much better it is worth insisting upon.
•yaion,
yaMm,
Stockings, Socks and Underwearfor Men, Ladiec
and Children. In all prices.
made Jerseys for Children are splendid wear.
Of Men's Outfitters, Drapers & Stores. If your dealer does
not stock i he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty, write for “Jason" booklet
aud name of nearest agent to—
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It .takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good." It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blaclcall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
bat after taking your treatment for 11, days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
[2.
MILNERS' SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. &Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight; of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. Tbo price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st,, Melbourne, Vic.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price.
Double-Barrelled, Breech-load-
ing Guns, engine-turned rib,
left barrel full choke, right
modified, rebounding locks
and pistol grip. Trial ..£5 2 6 £312 6
Single-barrelled Duck Guns,
large bore, to kill at 100yds.
Trial .. .. ..850 5 10 0
Single-Barrelled, Hammerless,
Breech-loading Guns, choke
bore, excellent stock. Trial.. 3 10 0 1 17 6
Double-Barrelled Breech load-
ing Guns, with Greener pat-
ent wedge fast cross bolt,
choke bore, walnut stock,
pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial .. ..£ 10 0 4 17 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with pat-
ent side clips, file cut rib,
top lever, choke bore, speci-
ally selected walnut stock,
Greener patent wedge fast
cross bolt. Trial . . . . 10 0 0 7 10 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22
calibre. Kill at 300yds. Trial 0 15 0 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
All Orders for Cuns and Rifles delivered Carriage
Paid to any address in Australasia,
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers,
242-244 Bourke St., MELBOURNE
IS 1,0 MS
Price, 64,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Song of Hope.
Pluck to-morrow from its socket,
Draw the teeth of yesterday,
While a coin is in our pocket
Let the whole world keep at play ;
Nothing has been seen hereafter,
Nothing will be seen before,
All the happy plumes of laughter
Deck the hearse beside the door.
Let us sing a song of sorrow
To the jig the fiddles play,
And some joyful dirges borrow
From the gods whose hair is grey;
Then with lifted cups a-jingle
Let us make the welkin ring,
While our wedded fingers tingle
To the tune the crickets sing.
Up! The wonder moon is beaming
Young delight on land and sea,
All the planet worlds are dreaming
Wild, ecstatic dreams of me;
All the little stars a-twinkle
In the very darkest blue,
Are from A to Z a-sprinkle
With thought-melodies of you.
All the little birds a-cluster —
Harlequin and Arquebus—
Feel in ancient, roosting fluster
Nervous-tender hints of us;
And along the wide commotion,
At the frail night’s silver hem,
Sweetheart, have we not a notion
That is nebulous to them?
Kiss me, sweetheart, in the morning,
Kiss me where the roses pine,
All their sweetness I am scorning
For the heart that beats with mine ;
Pluck to-morrow from its socket,
Gouge the eyes from yesterday,
While a coin is in our pocket,
Sweetheart, sweetheart, let us pay!
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
What Matters?
We see the ship of our dreams go down,
Our best ambitions take* fright and scatter,
Our dearest hope is a trull of the town....
What does it matter?
Our trust in friendship’s a broken reed.
Love pauses a moment to fool and flatter,
Then sells "us to Pelf, at the bidding of
Greed....
What does it matter?
Youth’s pennons flame joyously down the
sky,
But the vultures gather to tear them and
tatter.
Useless 1 to curse as these hours slink by. . . .
What does it matter?
There’s a din in our hearts the dull day
long,
As the grim, strong devils besiege them and
batter.
We are sold to the dogs for a wanton’s song. .
What does it matter?
MAOEILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
The Blue Pacific.
The Blue Pacific hoards her gems,
And all her sands are gold ;
Her clear, green eyes are deep and wise,
And she is many-souled.;
The sun-god dallies on hrir breast,
A roserwreath on his brow;<
Her parting kiss glows warm as his,
A sacrament, a vow!
.Always by white, unwearied scouts
Her beaches are patrolled,
And o’er her graves the sea-mew raves
Above her sands of gold.
Her sky-line sweeping ever east
With funnel-smoke is dark,
Where ships that sail from Sydney trail
The San Francisco bark.'
Where mile-long rollers crumble on
The shifting, smothered beach,
And -froth and brine of surfing-line
Lure, threaten and beseech,
A thousand reapers swing their scythes,
When winds blow nor’ by west,
And big seas suck and drive and duck,
While swimmers swim their best.
While rumble of eternal surf
Beats on the bannered shore,
Out in the swirl the surfing girl
Undaunted, dares the more ;
Where chuckling shallows dart and rove
The anxious matron squats,
With tawny elves that sun themselves,
Her hair in tangled knots.
The onward march of great white hosts
Of tumbling seas is met
Upon the marge by charge on charge
Of surfers brown arid wet;
The cynosure of college-girls,
The beach Apollo struts,
And Doris, cool and beautiful,
A dainty figure cuts!
The Blue Pacific is a maid
Of passion, mood and whim;
She sings a strong, imperious song,
And chants ballade and hymn.
Her woman’s heart- betrays the brave,
And tricks the foolish sw'u'n;
The damsel she, for jealousy,
Snares witlua foamy chain!
To thrilling music surfing men
" Sing still the old. sweet theme;
While in the swirls ungirdle# girls,
Whose dreams are lyric, dream !
And east to California
.. .. The Blue Pacific runs.
Where maidens slim and lovely swim
And beckon Austral sons!
The Blue Pacific lures her prey;
A siren, never old,
Her heart is wise in artifice.
Her gems are set in gold ;
She lures her love with mystic sdng.
He hastens, wonder-led,
And ere her kiss completes his bliss
She flings him backward, dead!
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


GRACEFUL STYLES IN UP-TO-DATE CORSETS
“W. 8.” Corsets, medium-sized bust,
medium hips, 4 strong suspenders,
dainty satin and Val. finishings at
top. In batiste, 20in. to 30in.. . 8/6
Light Summer Model, in ribbon;
floral or plain designs. Two sus-
penders in front. White, or dainty
colorings. 19in. to 36in.
1/11%, 2/9, 3/6
\v
m
nv
W&mb&sl \n e .I .
hi
m
■v Q.£
Our famous “Central” Corset, type
No. 2. In drat}, or white coutiile.
Medium low bust, full, extended hips,
strong suspenders attached, rust-proof
boning. 21in. to 30in 12/6
“Abflonia” Corsets, in drab coutille.
Low bust, long hips, two strappings,
suitable for stout or full figures. Made
on latest Continental lines, guaranteed
to reduce. 22in. to 30in...... 8/11
31in. to 36in 10/6
Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd
•? “The Noted Corsetieres,'*
Central Square, Opp. Railway, SYDNEY
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POORRI
For Pipe Smokers—POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Blend of Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 11b. Tins, 8/-
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers—POT POURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH—SO for 4/6, postage 4d. extra ; 100 for 9/-, postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA—IOO for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/-, postage 1/6 extra.
Send for mv Illustrated Catalogue, post free.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
»
S 5 v[
Sk\
Ha
r?
m
m
m
SB
saarf
5*
1
k
as
•H sttffi ' f&S'r-—"* 1
m
p-ir
AN EFFECTIVE
SCHEME.
CEILING No. 922
This design well exem-
plifies that decorative
and artistic effective-
ness which so distin-
guishes Wunderlich
ceilings.
CORNICE No. 958
The variety of Wun-
derlich designs is so
great that no difficulty
will be experienced in
finding appropriate
treatments for any
style of architecture.
F ILL INO No. 1034
'T'LIE importance of selecting a
A Wunderlich ceiling is em-
phasised when you consider
its permanence. Once installed,
it is installed for all time.
From every viewpoint Wunderlich Metal Ceilings and Wall Linings are the most
economical of the home-builder’s expenditures. The first cost is no greater than
that of older-fashioned materials. The saving in freight, the ease with which they
can be fixed, and the absence of all maintenance expense favorably affect the ultimate
cost.
Write for the WUNDERLICH CATALOGUE “ L.” It is
invaluable to anyone who expects to rebuild or remodel.
Wunderlich Ceilings and Wallings are made In Australia and New Zealand.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston & New Zealand.
I
sar
5f
i m
m
5
S
mi
©
‘Thorne’s” Stimulates
Good-fellowship.
WHEN the glasses are charged for the honor-
ing of some good and warm-hearted toast
—let the spirit be “Thorne’s ! ” There
is no liquor more suitable. It is Pure, Honest,
Mellow and embodies the highest qualities. Eighty
years of rich experience have placed this splendid
product of Glenlivet —the traditional home of fine
Scotch Whisky —in a position of high public esteem.
For the pleasure of your palate—for the benefit
of your body—for the fullest discharge of
warm hospitality drink ,
Incomparable
THORNE’S
O.H.M.
WHISKY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 33.—N0. 1703.
THURSDAY. OCTOBKR 3. 1912.
PIUOII ftl).
THE WRONG BAIT.
BOY: “Want some bait, Mister?”
FISHER(MAN): “Sh-h! Go away. The fish I’m after won’t bite at that bait.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 013 6
Quarterly .. .. • • 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
Jt is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official alxvays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence ” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it ivill be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, T Vest Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand;, and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 416 per doe. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street.
San Francisco: C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth an el D Streets. San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A. : IV. E. Lenehan, 585
— 29th Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey, World’s
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Ilong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x lJjin., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British Neiv Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, ICoz. Id. — otherwise, Soz., Id., and Bioz. to
JOoz., Sid.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/OZ., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1912.
BULL AND HIS ETERNAL FRIEND,
JONATHAN.
One day recently High Commissioner George
Reid was moved to be upstanding on his
feet, and to make the usual remarks about
“the two great branches of the Anglo-Saxon
race,” and the indissoluble bonds by which
they are united. It is a pleasant old dinner
platitude, this concerning the perpetual
friendship of Britain and the United States,
and it is one that has seen much service.
Hands have been perfunctorily shaken over
it; flags have been perfunctorily waved over
it; drinks have been drunk over it, on the
general principle that a drink is a good thing
at any time, and any platitude is sufficient
excuse. It is a sort of habit on the part of
British people to assume that war between
the two big English-speaking communities is
impossible and unthinkable, and that “blood
is thicker than water,” and that when John
Bull in his top boots has his national
back to the wall, Jonathan will be there
beside him, fighting earnestly through his
nose, and taking, for his alleged parent s
sake, any chances that are going. It is a
pretty legend, yet some people have their
doubts. There are people who are capable of
doubting almost anything.
* * * *
Certainly the big republic has never been
Bi’itain’s ally in any practical sense. it
has never even been a firm ally in a paper
sense. It has fought two wai’s with the
Bull country, and in each case the result
has tended to enlarge the U.S. head, and to
swell the U.S. vanity, and to depreciate, in
common U.S. opinion, the value of Bi’itain
as a friend. Other wars have been averted
by a hair’s breadth. Frenchmen and Spani-
ards, and Turks and Portuguese and Ger-
mans have fought great battles as Bull’s
comrades in arms, but nothing of the kind
has ever happened with the Yankee commun-
ity. This reduces the so-called United States
friendship to the merest theory. There have
been border disputes between the two na-
tions, and they have been submitted to arbi-
tration, and the invariable result has been
that the republic has come off best. As a
general rule it has explained, in a fairly
definite fashion, that it had to win, and that
it wouldn’t take any notice of the verdict
unless the said verdict was in its favor. In
other w’ords, it tossed with a two-headed
dollar. This has made arbitration l-ather an
unfriendly sort of jest so far as Britain
was concerned. And in commercial
matters the land of G. Washington
is the most successful enemy Britain
possesses. Its policy is to sell all the goods
that are possible; to buy hardly anything
in retui’n; and to strip Bull of gold in ex-
change. Bull buys from his cousin Jona-
than, goods to the amount of about
£122,000,000 per annum, which is not far
short of the amount he buys from France,
Russia and Gei’many combined. And he sells
to his cousin Jonathan goods to the value
of about £56,000,000 per annum, which is less
than the amount of his sales to Germany
alone. It is the worst case of an uneven
balance of trade in the Bi’itish commercial
x’ecoi’ds. So long as the States find their
best market in Bi’itain, and are not expected
to buy in retui’n to any corresponding
extent, and so long as the verdict,
when an arbitration is on, always goes
their way, and so long as the adjacent
British province of Canada supplies a good
field to be exploited by the States’ surplus
population, there is peace and passive good-
will, of a temporary sort. But there has
never been active goodwill—not, at least, on
the American side. The good offices of Bull
helped to keep the ring clear during the
Spanish war, and prevent the decrepit little
Power getting assistance, and such services
are thankfully received. But they are not
thankfully returned, and there is no reason
to suppose that they ever will be.
The familiar theory re the “two branches
of the Anglo-Saxon race” is interesting in its
way. It is good enough until it is closely
inspected. Then it begins to fade to some
extent. The first beginnings of the great
republic were certainly Anglo-Saxon—bit-
terly hostile Anglo-Saxon. In the days of
the War of Independence, and for some time
before and after it, to be an Anglo-
Saxon of British sympathies about Boston
or New York was to be an outcast and
a wild beast. The American Reisrn of Ter-
ror never occupied the place in history which
the French one did, but that was solely for
lack of opportunity and picturesque inci-
dents. It didn’t lead to the public execution
of two sovereigns and some princes, and
many dignitaries. Nor did it chase the
proudest nobility of Europe wholesale into
exile, so that a stack of peers and
potentates had to wander, abroad for
half a generation, weeping, in poetic lan-
guage, about their woes. It didn’t abolish the
Church, abolish religion, suppress God by
Act of Parliament, create a new calendar
with new names for the months, and other-
wise advertise itself by gaudy upheavals. But
for merciless slaughter, proscription and con-
fiscation, the dealings of the early Anglo-
Saxon republicans with those of the race
who remained loyal to Britain, overshadowed
all the French records of the time of Robes-
pierre, Danton, Hebert, Collot and
Billaud. These bitterly hostile Anglo-
Saxons were strengthened later by a consid-
erable French and Spanish element, which
had no British racial affinities whatsoever.
Then there was gathered in such a vast mass
of Irish, all moving westward to escape from
British rule and British conditions, that
there is now more of Ireland in the States
than there is in Ireland itself. The German
was a great immigrant to the States for a
number of years, when poor old Freetrade
Germany was a good place to get away from;
and nobody suspects the German of any
desire to spill his blood in Britain’s quarrel
for sentimental motives. Also, there came
Scandinavians, Poles, Russians, Jew’s, Ital-
ians, Austrians, Bohemians and sundries.
Out of L 041,570 immigrants who entered
the United States in 1910 (the last year for
which figures are available), it is reckoned
that about 60,000 (say about one in 16)
were Anglo-Saxons, as the term goes—dis-
satisfied Anglo-Saxons, who didn’t think it
worth while to stay in Bull’s country and
defend it on the spot, and who will probably
feel even less interest in it, now that they
have left it, than they did before they left it.
And this sort of thing has been going on for
very many years. Certainly English re-
mains the official language of the U.S.
though the bulk of the population is no
longer of English descent. The Irishman,
when he arrived, spoke English of a sort,
and he was too busv hustling for a job as
policeman or alderman to demand the adop-
tion of his ancient speech at Washington.
And, among the babel of French, Spanish,
German, Swedish, Russian, Hebrew, Italian,
Polish, Ruthenian, Bohemian, Moravian,
Slovak. Servian, Croatian, Roumanian, Fin-
nish, Dutch, Greek, Flemish, Bulgarian,
Basque, Romany and oddments, no one non-
English language stood out at any time so
far beyond all others as to be able to assert
itself and compel official recognition. So the
hereditary tongue of a small minority pre-
vails, partly because it was first on the scene,
and partly because, among perhaps 30 lin-
guistic minorities, one must prevail. English
is taught in the schools, and is, in a manner
of speaking, holding its own. But as a
spoken language it isn’t exactly London Eng-
lish, and it is becoming less like the Picca-
dilly speech as time goes on.
* * * *
To put the matter shortly, the elements
which make up the population of the United
States are five-fold. There are (1) the descend-
ants of English, Scotch and Irish convicts,
who started with bitter grievances against
Britain —the country which sold them into
slavery; (2) the descendants of early colon-
ists who turned insurrectionists and devel-
oped traditions of furious hostility to Bri-
tain; (3) people, and the descendants of
people, like the Irish who quitted the Bri-
tish Isles full of rage and loathing; (4)
people, and the descendants of people, who
left the British Isles, not in active hostility,
but in disgust because they found those isles
not much ,of a country to live in; and (5)
the enormous mass of people from the Euro-
pean continent to whom Britain is of no
more real interest than is Egypt or Timbuc-
too. (Niggers and Chinese ai’e omitted from
the calculation on general principles.) These
are not very promising materials out of
which to create an Anglo-Saxon brotherhood.
They tend to blank indifference, to
the least. Then there is a circum-
stance which makes for active hostility.
Canada is the only British possession which
marches side by side with the home territory
of a Gi’eat Power. The United States is the
only Great Power which is cribbed and
■ cabined and confined by a mere thinly-
peopled, ill-defined, ill-defended foreign
colony on its home borders. Canada, to the
man of the United States who takes stock
in old Anglo-Saxon traditions, represents
failure, and is a constant reminder, not of
actual defeat, but of very modified success.
The revolutionists of Washington’s time
set to work to clear the British flag out of
America, and the work is not yet finished.
The Dominion is unredeemed Yankee land,
just as Lombardy and Venice used to be un-
redeemed Italy, and as Holland is unre-
deemed Germany. The fact that the non-
success of so many years ago has never been
forgotten is evidenced by the eagerness with
which the States reached out for Alaska
when Russia put it on the mai’ket, and the
enei’gy with which they pressed old and
dubious Russian claims until they secured
from the feeble British Government about
half the Pacific coast-line of Canada. Cana-
da, if it combines with the United States,
can develop westward without hindrance. If
it doesn’t combine with the United States
half its western territory is cut off from the
sea by an intervening strip of foreign land.
The Spanish American republics have been
able to forgive Spain because they won all
along the line, and their old misti’ess was
cleared out bag and baggage. The big North
American republic has never been able to
forgive Britain, because it only won half a
victory, and its old mistress didn’t wholly
clear out. Probably, among all the Great
Powers of the world. the U.S. republic is
the one that is least likely to be a reliable
friend to J. Bull at an emergency. It has
exactly the same grievance against him as
J. Bull had against the Boer States —or
rather, it has the same grievance as he would
have had against the Boer States if they
had been in the North of England instead of
in Africa, and Great Britain had been split
in two parts, kept asunder by a foreign
authority. And it is the only Great Power
which has any such grievance.
The Monroe Doctrine is an expression of
the fact that the United States considers
European Powers as undesirable neighbors.
It sets forth that the possession by a Euro-
pean Po\yer of any fragment of American
soil is so objectionable that any further
movement in that direction will be regarded
as a hostile act. The republic doesn’t want
any more European companionship, and
from that it may be inferred that it doesn’t
appreciate the European companionship it
already possesses. It has already taken steps
to shift the weakest of the objectionables by
shunting the Spaniard out of Cuba. The
Dutchman and Frenchman in Guiana,
and the British in Guiana, Honduras,
Canada and certain of the islands, are
still tolerated because the favorable op-
portunity for shifting them hasn’t arx’ived.
Among these neighbors Britain, as the
nearest and lai'gest objectionable, is the one
that weighs most heavily on the U.S. chest.
So the chances are that Bull’s difficulty
will be Jonathan’s opportunity.
THE SLUMP.
Last week the Sydney share market (which
in this respect is exactly the same as the
Melbouime and Adelaide share markets)
showed the same old downward tendency.
There is. very little change in the movement
nowadays. On Monday one stock showed a
slight rise, and two showed a drop. On
Tuesday one showed a rise of per share,
and eight stocks fell to the aggregate amount
of £1 11s. lid. The week showed that 11
securities had risen a little, while 33 had
fallen a good deal. And business is almost
dead. Yet the seasons are good, and the
prices of the produce which Australia has to
sell are high. Immigrants are poui'ing in.
Wages are bigger than they have ever been
before in the memory of anybody now living.
And even while stocks are sagging away so
miserably, the companies which they repre-
sent are generally making fine profits. It is
true that the country has been boi’rowing in
a lavish fashion, but for a long time it has
done most of its borrowings locally. The
hideous blunder of the late ’Bo’s and eaidy
’9o’s of last century, when “the importation
of British capital” became a madness, and
then the withdrawal of it produced the worst
crash in Australian history, has not been
repeated as yet. In fact, for some years
past, the total amount of Australian public
debt owing in England has actually de-
creased, and the outflow of money to pay in-
terest has decreased likewise. The State
revenues are higher than they ever were
before —which, by the way, is an old, familiar
symptom. In evei’y Australian State, just
before the great crash of 1893, the State
revenues were higher than they had ever
been before. Still, the sign may be a good
one, just as it may be a bad ohe, and, while
the joy lasts, it is a pleasant thing to know
that revenues are large, and that pi’ices are
lai’ge, and that wages are large, and that
crops are good ; and on the face of thinvs
everything in the garden of roses should
be lovely. Yet it certainly isn’t. As
already mentioned, signs of creeping paralysis
are visible in the share market. Other signs
reveal themselves in the desperate straits
to which these Governments that are enjoy-
ing the most splendid revenues on recoi’d ai’e
put to for money to keep their loan madness
going, and in the fact that they are buying
scraps of cash at prices that would have been
regarded as preposterous a very few years
ago. •
To put the matter shortly, a feeling arises
here and there that this country is get-
ting near to the edge of a precipice. Its
plain, simple, obvious trouble is lack of
money—the only kind of money which speaks
all languages and is equal to all emergencies.
The banking returns are a good test, for the
banks hold all the people’s money, except
such loose change as the community requires
to go on with. At June 30, 1911, these insti-
tutions contained £64,824,186 in cash (in-
cluding Australian notes), as security for
£212,439,058 due to the public. At last
June they had only £54,694,355 cash and
Australian notes as security for £212,560,856
due _to the public. It is the most sudden
decline ever known hereabouts in so short a
time. Already , the financial institutions are
selling securities in order to get in money,
and are refusing to make new loans, and put-
ting up loan rates, and offering higher prices
to attract deposits, and getting very few new
deposits even at the advanced rates, for lack
of money to be deposited. Very soon, if the
decline in the gold supply continues, they
will begin to call in advances, and then the
boom will sag horribly. Last year the banks
lent out an additional £14,000,000 or so at a
fairly cheap rate, to men who wanted to
build, to buy land, and to start new enter-
prises. If they have to stop doing this sort
of thing, then the bottom falls out.
If anyone asks where the money lias gone,
the obvious answer is that it has gone to
pay for imports. This country has reached
such a point in the importing mania that
during the first eight months of 1912 it
bought from abroad £13,870,000 worth more
goods than it scld abroad, and it exported
all the gold that it produced, and a great
deal of what it Lad on hand, and a lot more
that it borrowed, to make up the difference.
In 1905, the average wages paid in N.S.W.
factories (men, women, boys and girls all
included) were barely £72 per head. In
1911, despite a great increase in the propor-
tion of comparatively low-wage female labor,
the average was well above £92. There has
been no corresponding increase in the tariff,
and the duties which held a reasonably fair
.balance between an English worker at £4O
and a N.S.W. one at £72 don’t hold any kind
of balance between an English worker at
£4O and a N.S.W. one at £92. Yet Minister
Tudor has the silly effrontery to ask, when
applied to for increased duties: “If we give
the manufacturers increased Protection, what
are the workers going to get?” The obvious
fact that the workers have very considerably
“got” already is consistently ignored by
Tudor and his colleagues. And the output
of Australian goods is severely hampered in
another direction. It is now the amazing
policy of the unions in many trades to so
limit the number of apprentices that (bar-
ring the importation of workmen from over-
sea, to which many unionists strongly object)
Australian industries are not only forbidden
to, expand, but are doomed to gradual ex-
tinction for want of skilled operatives.
So, partly because Australian labor is too
dear to compete, under a mockery of a tariff,
with English cheap labor, and partly be-
cause, in many industries, Australian work-
men are too scarce to supply the goods re-
quired, the huge inflow of cheap labor pro-
ducts continues, and the corresponding out-
flow of Australian gold continues, and
through sheer local scarcity of cash the
Slump grows day by day. The rich Tory
importer is doing remarkably well, but that
is poor consolation. If events keep moving
along the present lines, and no new Kal-
goorlie or similar unforeseen circumstance
is discovered to give an artificial boost to the
situation, it is safe to prophesy that shortly
the Laborite who sunk the fiscal issue will
find work at the present rate of wages grow-
ing scarce, and that the rich Tory who voted
for Freetrade because it was English and
respectable, will find his lands and securities
worth a great deal less than they are now.
Already investment stocks that are worth
the price they commanded three months ago
are about as rare as hens’ teeth. Even such
tremendously solid securities as the shares
of the Bank of N.S.W. and the Commercial
Ranking. Co. of Svdney are on the down
grade, simply through the desire to realise
caused by the scarcity of money—in other
words, through the vanishment of the money
that has gone away to pay for cheap labor
goods. And many stout gentlemen, with a
life-long faith in the importation of cheap
goods, feel a good deal cheaper in conse-
quence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted, Government Audit of Life
Assurance Offices.
If the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society loses the number of its mess (and
such a thing, though improbable enough, is
not wholly impossible), or if it suffers so
severely in repute through its present
troubles that it will be years before it re-
gains its old standing (which is quite pro-
bable), the case for Government audit and
valuation of life offices will be greatly
strengthened. Private Enterprise always
falls back on the State, if the thing be at all
possible, in an emergency, but where State
audit and valuation and supervision are pro-
vided as a regular thing, it can do this quietly
and as a matter of course, and no scandal en-
sues. When they are not provided for, and
a Bank of New Zealand or a Colonial
Mutual Life Society rushes, or is dragged, be-
fore Parliament, amid suspicions and re-
criminations, there is a scandal, and scandal
is bad for business. It is fully 15 years
since people began to remark that the
Colonial Mutual didn’t look quite so well as
some of its contemporaries. The large
amount of uncollected interest upon invest-
ments was mentioned in this paper before
the end of last century. Attention was
drawn now and again to the high expense
rate, the very moderate rate of interest rea-
lised, the enormous number of branch offices
that the society maintained in order to scrape
together a not-very-extraordinary amount of
business, and so on. Where there is no
regular State audit and State valuation, the-
only thing a financial critic can do is to draw
attention to these things. He can’t ask the
State auditor for an explanation of anv
points that seem doubtful in the office s ac-
counts, for there is no such person. He can
ask the institution, but then no one seriously
expects an institution to say it isn’t feeling
well. As for the society itself, it can hire
special auditors to go through its accounts,
and refute any charges and suspicions: but


the mere fact that it selects and pays the
special auditors makes the public reva
them with a dubious eye. And if it desires
to do something extra vigorous, it may de-
mand a Government investigation, which is
equivalent to saying that it is under a cloud,
and must take unusual means to get that
cloud dissipated. And if the Government re-
fuses to go out of its way and interfere, then
the cloud remains—in fact, it is a bigger
cloud than ever, because it has been so widely
advertised—and people may even suspect
that the application for an overhaul was
bogus, and was refused by previous arange-
ment. The case of the Colonial Mutual Life
Society has been dragged, all of a sudden,
into publicity in the Victorian State Legis-
lature. It is alleged that, owing to some
initial blunder in the constitution of the
society, it is really a proprietary affair, and
that the position of the directors has
always been dubious. It is also alleged that
the institution has sundry valueless assets
in its balance-sheet, and that the directors
have resorted to unexpected means to pre-
vent the intrusion of new men—-men who
might possibly overhaul the alleged office
skeleton, and drag its alleged bones to light.
If the charges are proved the result will be
very bad for the policy-holders. If they are
not proved, they will be very bad for the
policy-holders, because the memory of the
suspicion will remain. In a country where
any respectable sort of Government holds
an annual audit and valuation of life assur-
ance offices, troubles of this sort can’t ac-
cumulate. If there is a trouble it is found
out within 12 months—before it he° time to
become a very bad affair, and while it is
still easy to apply a remedy, and to do it
quietly and without scandal. There is no
need for a frantic Premier to bring in a Bill
to abolish the old directorate, and to appoint
a new one, and to upheave things generally.
It is quite possible that this affair of the
Colonial Mutual may be only the first of a
series of alarms and suspicions. Therefore,
it is time that the Australian Government,
which has charge of insurance legislation,
became upstanding on its feet and did things.
The matter may not be so popular and easy
as the Baby Bonus, but it is quite as im-
portant. The £5 the baby gets at birth is
very little compared with the amount it may
not get at the old man’s death, if his policy
proves rotten.
—
Some Studies in Provincialism.
In the misty future, when the Navigation
Bill gets into committee, F. W. Bamford, of
Queensland, proposes to move that Papua be
excluded from the coasting trade provisions.
Or, to put it in another way, he is going to
urge that those vessels plying to Australia’s
island possession shall be allowed to carry
nigger crews. This attempt to slay a great
ideal (for it should be understood that, if
exemptions are granted in one case they must
be granted in others) will be made in the
alleged interests of a mere handful of whites.
According to the annual official report, the
whole of the European population of Papua,
as at June 30, 1911, was but 1032. Of these
775 were males. About 10 per cent, of the
latter are planters, who travel little ; another
10 per cent, are miners, who travel less ; and
then there is a big crowd of operatives, ship-
wrights, plumbers, hotelkeepers, etc., who'
trayel hardly at all. On behalf of the infini-
tesimally small residue —the Melbourne Club
type of settler, and the Hotel Australia
variety of pioneer— Bamford is willing and
anxious, seemingly, to bury Australia’s best
hope of an effective mercantile marine in the
blue sea. He does not stand alone in this
respect. On every hand members of the Na-
tional Parliament are to be discerned bat-
tling like tigers to emasculate the Navigation
Bill for the benefit of the pettiest imaginable
local interests. The Westralian representa-
tive is hostile, in many cases, to the Coasting
Trade provisions, because he fears that they
may discourage the big oversea liners, which
are, under existing conditions, a convenience;
to those of his constituents who visit the
Eastern States. The Tasmanian fears that
his State’s apple-exporting trade may suffer,
if the foreign shipping cos. are asked to em-
ploy white in place of black labor. Also, he
dreads the effect on the Tasmanian tourist
traffic, of the possible cutting out of Hobart
from the itineraries of the deep-sea liners.
The Victorian, and more particularly the
Victorian who inhabits Melbourne, is per-
turbed lest the new Bill may have the effect
of alienating the affections of the Dutch
craft which ply there at present. It is a
matter of inter-State, or, rather, inter-city,
jealousy. All the Island trade, with the excep-
tion of that done by the one Dutch line which
extends to Melbourne, is in the hands of
Sydney. To retain that twopenny boon, nine
“public-spirited” Melbournians out of ten are
prepared to let the question of a white ocean,
so far as these shores are concerned, go to
blazes. It is a miserable position at best,
and it hasn’t even expediency to justify it.
Papua is not going to be isolated, even if
the worst befalls, and the ships which at
present trade there refuse to go white. No-
thing is surer than that the Australian Gov-
ernment will be able easily to arrange ser-
vices of white-manned steamships, either by
subsidies or by inaugurating a nationalised
line. Tasmania’s apple shipments will not
be prejudiced, whichever road the coasting
trade provisions go; and, as regards the
tourist traffic, it is likelier that a shortage of
foreign liners will operate to work up a big
local passenger-carrying trade, with all its
attendant advantages, than that it will kill
the existing vogue Tasmania has, as a holi-
day resort. But the typical provincial]st and
the furious State Righter see .no'ne of these
things. The light or faint glimmer ahead
on which their eyes are tirelessly fixed, is
compounded of about three ha’porth of pres-
ent trade, and somewhere in the neighborhood
of another three ha’porth of jealousy con-
cerning the various “rival States.” To, keep
the trade and exasperate the rival States,
numbers of these patriots are prepared to
go any lengths, from prejudicing their coun-
try’s defence scheme to handing the Com-
monwealth over, lock, stock and barrel, to
discolored aliens.
More Wild Tales from the Churches.
“Why don’t the Masses frequent the
Churches?” clamors the Right-Thinking Per-
son every now and then, in tones of pained
stupefaction. On recent clerical form the
answer would seem to be that the more the
Masses are educated—the more they grow
up in an intellectual manner of speaking—
the less taste they have for crude fairy tales.
The modern parson seems to be developing
into an absolute specialist in the matter of
incredible bellowdrama. When he isn’t find-
ing glittering, but unspecified, public-houses
full of small, inebriated boys, or unnamed
haunts where anonymous maiignants machin-
ate ceaselessly to overturn Throne, Faith
and Marriage Tie, he is mostly putting his
shifty finger on some other highly-elusive
social horror which no one but himself is
able to locate. The average member of the
Masses finds it tiresome to be habitually de-
feated in the hunt for even so unsavory a
thing as a social horror. When suspicion be-
gins to dawn that the horror was never
there in the first instance, weariness turns
to annoyance, and the divine who has, as it
were, fathered the unpleasantness loses
caste, and, in consequence, . congregations.
The latest sample of holy sensationalism
emanates from Rev. S. D. Yarrington, of
Sydney, who claimed last week that the citv
was creeping with opium dens or “hells,”
in which white girls “endured a living
death.” The position he took up over the
affair was typically clerical. In the first
place, he asked for money wherewith to carry
the Word to the opium-enthusiasts. On its
being represented to him, by the Chief Secre-
tary and the Police, that a better plan would
be to indicate the hells, with a view to giv-
ing the authorities a chance to wipe them
out, he was shocked. If he did such a
thing, he explained, and ceased to play the
role of particeps criminis, the malefactors
would never trust him again, and his mis-
sionising efforts would be nullified so far as
they were concerned. In any case, it would
be impossible to exterminate all the dens or
remove the girls from them. In brief, the
only way to deal with the tragedy was to
supply the Mission people with funds, and
leave them to wrestle in prayer with the
aliens and their Caucasian fellow-sinners. It
is difficult to conceive a more imbecile atti-
tude than this. Rev. Yarrington has been
toiling in the slums, Bible in hand, for
years now. By his own admission, they are
full of ruined white girls, whose downfall
was brought about originally by o"bium smok-
ing. According to him, the Chinese who
wishes to compass the destruction of a white
woman first makes her an opium fiend —and
that part of the story seems likely enough.
Furthermore, the deadly work is still going
on. That is to say, weekly and daily, more
girls are being lured to Chinese dens, more of
them are being initiated into the opium habit,
and more of them are qualifying as consorts
for the Mongol. And the only remedy the
Rev. Yarrington has to suggeit is a free
use of the Bible and the hymn-book and
prayer—moral prophylactics which, by his
own showing, have done little good in _ the
past. What wonder that the authorities
have turned the eye of doubt on the mis-
sioniser’s allegations, and have charged the
good man with the fault of allowing his
imagination to grow super-heated? There
are some abuses which, it is almost univer-
sally conceded, cannot be satisfactorily at-
tacked by means of prayer. For example,
disorderly houses, the plague, gaming estab-
lishments, diphtheria, two-up schools, sly-
grog shops, coiners’ dens, and bad drains.
A parson might contend in prayer with such
calamities till he achieved lingual paralysis,
and never exorcise one smell or turn one
soul from Beelzebub unto repentance. The
police, health officials, etc., by cleaning up
these evils, do a tremendous lot of real good.
And so with opium dens. If, as Rev. Yah-
rington asserts, the latter are, so to speak,
universities of the most hideous forms of
vice, establishments where clean white
women graduate into drug-fiends and para-
mours of coolies, their utter extermination
ought not to be delayed for a second. They
should be burst into hurriedly and dyna-
mited, and the plough drawn over their sin-
ful and insanitary ruins, and. the sites
should be sown with salt. The idea of pre-
serving them as fields for the exercise of
prayer by the representatives of the Churches
is too bizarre for the most- demented of
farces. The N. S. Wales Chief Secretary
and the Inspector-General of Police really
did Rev. Yarrington a kindness when they
ciuestioned the accuracy of his amazing tale.
To know of such horrors, and to refuse to
disclose their whereabouts to those best fitted
to smite them, would be infamous: to prattle
about them on the strength of hearsay evi-
dence, or less, is merely parsonical, and
darned parsonical at that.
The Loyal Irish Rebellion.
This letter is from a Scotchman: —
The time is at last ripe and has arrived when
Ulster rises to strike a blow, thwack or other bump
for loyalty, arid the memory of the glorious, pious
and immortal person from Holland, who fixed things
to the satisfaction of the Scotch-Irishmen around
Belfast. Also the said bump has already been de-
scribed in the cables, and sounds about as terrible as
the noise of the fall of a potato from Heaven on a
still night. This is how the fearful news arrived in
Sydney -
“The members of one Unionist club, carrying
dummy rifles, and those of another club wearing
khaki ’ uniforms, paraded the streets of Lisburn (7i
miles south-west of Belfast), where Sir Edward Car-
son addressed a vast open-air meeting yesterday.
The Irish Unionist leader read the covenant, and de-
clared that if the Government persisted in its fatuous
and nefarious policy he and those associated with
him would go to any length in the defence of Ire-
land.”
As the beginning of an armed protest against the'
long-promised Home Rule, those dummy rifles and
khaki uniforms are much, more cheerful than might
have reasonably been expected, and the main feature
of Carson's address appears to have been the absence
of the whoop and assurance which have characterised
his 6000 or 7000 addresses on the. same subject, re-
cently delivered in the same district.
There is a good about movement
that is remarkable, it isn’t an
Ulster movement, some parts
of Ulster of some of the general
scheme of things, deal. To
assert that it is _a mov3WHB F Protestant against
Catholic is to juggle with truth and veracity, and
fair statement arid reality, and hard solid things of
that kind. The bulk of Ireland’»insurrectionary leaders
Were more or less Protestant; the last great Irish re-
bellion was the work of Protestants in one of the
most Protestant counties, and the Home Rule move-
ment to-day has- the 1 ’ support of thousands of Protest-
ants, who in faith and practice are much nearer the
genuine article than the noisy Orangemen who wear
khaki uniforms and carry dummy rifles. Nominally,
the Orangeman is strong on upholding the Bible, but
the upholding' is mostly done with a fife-and-drum
band and copious draughts of bad whisky, and ex-
presses itself in the simple formula, “to Hell with
the Pope.” As long as the Roman person is cursed
sufficiently often, and with plenty of vigor, there
seems to be a general agreement that the Bible and
the cause and the country will be all right.
People who say that the present Irish commotion
is a race war are also strangers to the thing
Ananias didn’t regularly use. Recent writers declare
that the most Celtic part of Ireland, and, indeed, of
the whole British Islands, is just that very region
around Belfast and Londonderry where the dummy
rifles are in evidence. Celts went to Scotland as
members of the old Irish Church; stayed there as
Catholics, and came back to Ireland as Scotchbv-
terians of the John llnox brand; but they hadn’t
changed their identity, or their race, or their drink,
or the color of their whiskers to any remarkable ex-
tent. The Irish people certainly are not all the pro-
geny of one patriarchal father, but they are just
about as uniform in breed as a race need be, and
there is nothing which will help one end of the
country along without being good for the other:
Anyhow, the betterment of Ireland isn’t a matter
of religion or race, or any of the noisy and senti-
mental things that help to make most news copy.
What Ireland lias been suffering from is the absence
of industries, the drain on its wealth caused by ab-
sentee landlordism, and the rule of an unsympathetic
foreign Government, which never tried in the least to
understand what it wanted or needed. More or less
Bible, or Carson, or khaki uniforms, or dummy rifles,
or fife-and-drum bands, or recollections of King Wil-
liam or Napper Tandy, won’t help it forward or
backward the value of one blighted potato. What it
wants is more food, more clothes, better houses, more
mills, more soap, more hope, less talking, a thump-
ing graduated land tax, and —but that will probably
happen in the millennium —a thoroughgoing Protec-
tion for its manufactures which would lift it to a
status of real industrial activity. It is the poscihil-
ity of these things that the sanest and best- of its
people see in the promise of Home Rule, and Car-
son’s armed rowdies are not likely to scare them out
of their hope by any number of dummy rifles.
Joy for the Bush Pressman.
Dear Bulletin, —Do you think there is any
hope of Section 21 of the N. S. Wales Early
Closing Act (1912) surviving the slings and
arrows of enraged Fatte? ' It runs this way:
No person shall, in the metropolitan or Newcastle
shopping district, cart or deliver by vehicle, or permit
any other person in his employment to cart or deliver
by vehicle, any goods, wares or merchandise, or
materials whatsoever, before half-past seven o’clock
in the morning, or after half-past seven o’clock in
the evening on any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday, or before half-past seven o’clock in the
morning, nor after half-past nine o’clock in the even-
ing on Friday, or before half-past seven o’clock in
the morning,' or after half-past one o’clock in the
afternoon, on Saturday of any week.
If this goes through, I shall fall deliriously
over my own feet in a wild rush to buy a
certain country daily which is wilting, at
present, .from no other cause than the com-
petition of the metropolitan sheets. And
presently you will hear of your old friend,
no longer as a skulking insolvent, but as a
species of backblocks Northchffe or
I-learst. For if no on,e is permitted to cart
anything before half-past seven in the morn-
ipf or’ after half-past seven in the evening,
the Sydney morning dailies which now leave
for the country at 3 a.m. or thereabouts, are
obviously doomed so far as their back :
blocks business is concerned. What a
superb vista it opens up for the rural or
Cow pressman. Affluence and ink-
stains walking hand in hand through the
country districts for the first time in our
rough island story! Western newspaper
managers proudly rejecting the local under-
taker’s advt. and simultaneously bumping up
the charge for adulating the pub and
eulogising the craft ,of the village drains-
expert by 50 per cent.! The bank manager
and the editor taking beer together, as
equals! The highly-salaried reporters elected
to the golf club and heartily tendered the
mitt of friendship by the indigenous nobility!
It all seems so much too good to be true
that I intend to delay hypothecating the few
valuables I possess (as a preliminary to in-
vesting in tlie newspaper concern above-
mentioned) till I see what the deliberations
of Parliament bring forth. Meanwhile. I
remain, in a state of absolutely blithering ex-
citement, yours ever, A. William-Cann.
The Sorrows of Mrs. Hughes.
The Argus recently babbled a column wail
from Mrs. Hughes, the president of the Aus-
tralian Women’s National League. The bur-
den of Mrs. Hughes’s lament is the perverse-
ness of Sam Mauger, one of the three
selected Victorian Liberal candidates for the
Senate. Sam persists in regarding himself
as selected, and is stumping the country
with great energy, although Mrs. Hughes
declares that her league cannot stand him.
The reasons Mrs. Hugh'es give for her dis-
like of Mauger are the following:—
(1) His polities are, as his friends tell us, of a
decidedly radical brand.
(2) On one occasion he voted for preference to
unionists.
(3) He finds “there is no room in Australia for in-
dividualism.”
(4) He actively supports a policy of Protection.
Apparently reason No. 4 is the chief one, as
Mrs. Hughes plaintively asks why Samuel
cannot agree with the league’s plank, which
runs:—
To give support to the present fiscal policy with
DUE regard to all sections of the community, and to
support the establishment of a Board of Trade for its
adjustment on PRACTICAL lines.
This, says Mrs. Hughes artlessly, is “clear.”
It is clear in one sense, that is, it means
anything or nothing. What is the “present
fiscal policy?” Also, what are “practical
lines”? Quite the best feature of Mauger’s
candidature is the fact that he is a staunch
Protectionist, who will fight to secure duties
that are efficient; and this, it seems certain,
is the cause of Mrs. Hughes’s anguish.
What will happen with regard to the Liberal
candidates no one knows. The two leagues
that are against Mauger chose Peacock in-
stead, without asking Peacock whether he
would accept the nomination. Peacock, evi-
dently not in love with the honor, promptly
declined it; and the leagues retired crest-
fallen, amidst the jeers of their enemies.
Mrs. Hughes’s long lamentation closes with-
out any indication of what her precious
league intends V do, so the momentous ques-
tion is still hanging where Mahomet was
buried.
—<♦
The Bogus Leader.
It is the custom of N. S. Wales Laborites
to condole hilariously with Liberalism over
its Wade. The flamboyantly virtuous, but
depressing and maladroit and humorless
Mount Kembla-ite is pointed to b - " State
Labor enthusiasts as their Party’s White Hope,
so to speak. It is claimed in this quarter that
he possesses a dazzling variety of lethal
punches—his habit of posing as the mar-
tyred victim of Speaker Willis ; his unique
gift of saying the wrong thing at the most
inopportune time possible; his genius for
perpetrating tactical blunders, and so on —-
and that all of them are employed constantly
for the benefit of the Labor cause. Labor
Ministers are understood to mention Wade
in their pravers, beseeching Providence that
he may be spared for many years to direct
the forces opposed to them. There is, no
doubt, a lot in it. Labor in N. S. Wales
could hardly have a more satisfactory char-
acter in the battle-van of Liberalism than
C. G. Wade, unless, indeed, it were Wood
or Fitzpatrick, or the gentleman who at-
tempted, the other day, to hit the Speaker
with a bottle, or his friend who aims books
and such-like missiles at the foe in moments
of controversial stress. But is the N.S.W.
State Labor party any better off in this re-
gard? Palpably not. Considered from the
standpoint of a leader, James McGowen is
fully as calamitous to Labor as G. G.
Wade is to Liberalism. In fact, it is argu-
able whether he isn’t more so. He ds
equally dull, equally inarticulate, equally in-
capable of enthusing anybody over any
single issue ; and he also resembles Wade in
the matter of congenital Toryism and hope-
less want of imagination. He lacks Wade’s
GuMMiDGE-like attitude of misery and an-
guish as regards almost every fresh political
development; in fact, he is a notably cheery
and optimistic old party, as beseems one
whose conscience, digestive apparatus and
bank balance are all in good order. But he
makes up for. these pleasing qualities by
being the most incorrigibly tired citizen in
politics to-day. He is the John Weary of
N. S. Wales, only more so. Nominally he i*s
Premier and Chief Secretary; in point of
fact he is a splendid and glittering loafer
and the State’s most convincing example of
a politician who has lost his Dash. When he
was Treasurer. Carmichael was not only
the entire financial voice of the Cabinet,
but, to all intents and purposes,, the Premier
to boot. Now that he is Chief Secretary,
Flowers, M.L.C., evolves hospital schemes,
attends to social reform matters, grapples
with police grievances, and in general
attends to the work which his leader
should be doing. The problem of who
is really Premier is one of the Ma
State’s darkest mysteries just now. When
the Federal Treasurer has to be conferred
with, Carmichael undertakes the job. When
it is decided to put through the Increase of
Salaries Bill, Holman is called on. When
the matter of the Jervis Bay railway arises,
Beeby is handed control of the fort. A
Hansard proof of Orders of the Day
(17/9/’l2) is before the writer. It dis-
closes the fact that, while on that date
Holman had charge of a couple of dozen
measures, Beeby of six, Griffith of five,
Carmichael of four, and so on, the Premier’s
part was the handling of two unimportant
amending Bills. Which is fairly typical,,
and likewise absurd. McGowen is a dull,,
estimable man personally, but as a leader he
begins to assume the dimensions of a colossal
jest—an even worse one, as aforesaid, than
C. G. Wade himself. He corresponds to an
editor who does not edit; a hotelkeeper who
never goes near his pub; a shipmaster
whose days and nights are spent on dry land..
If the State Labor party doesn’t want more
dissensions that have yet ag tated it, and if
it doesn’t yearn for more discredit than has
hitherto smitten the cause, it will kindly but
very firmly and promptly jettison McGowen.
the leader who has ceased to make even a*
faint pretence to lead.
The British Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No politician who is not blinded by prejudice will
refuse to admit that Britain is a better guide to
follow where politics and journalism are concerned,
than Australia. —Maoriland paper.
Let us take the British way,
Follow where our fathers led,
Though the years are somewhat grey
And old systems somewhat dead;
Let our fashions all be set
As they used to be observed
When the strong Plantagenet
Mostly got what he deserved.
Journalists should be the same,
Politicians should not range,
Let us simply play the game
Without any thought of change;
Lion-hearted Richard knew
Naught of graduated tax
When old Cohen’s teeth he drew
To provide his battle-axe.
John the Magna Charta signed
By compulsion, it is true,
And he didn’t seem to mind
If the whole blamed public knew •
But the leaders in the press
Were anonymous as cows
In the days when knights would dress
As we clothe our stoves and ploughs.
In the days when, clad in steel,
Foemen met in deadly shock,
With a spike upon each heel
Urging on the battle-crock,
He who published any news
Did it with a conscience clear —
If the fightinr person’s views
Were his own, he need not fear
Splendid pageants came and went,
Leprosy was somewhat rife
People mostly paid their rent
With a dagger or a knife,
Splendid whiskers filled the land,
And from justice hot and raw
Kings administered by hand
Slabs of hard unquestioned law.
In Australia no one cares
Much about the ancient way,
There the scarcity of prayers
Gives the Wowser thino-s to say ;
They have grown un-British quite,
Wandered from the ancient path,
And a number take delight
In the wet and modern bath.
One tradition have they kept,
One that fills our souls with fear,
Ancient as the Saxon Hept-
Archy is their love of beer ;
But they have the awful hide
To expunge from off the slate
All their reverential pride
In the ages that were great.
Shall we follow where they lead?
No, by Cohen’s whiskers, no !
Let us go at British speed
If we really need to go.
Norman William has been dead,
Very dead for quite a while.
Ours to mark the thing he said —-
Backward march! And try to smile.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
... and . . .
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
Estab
1758
m
Pf,
11 iM Mil l M
ear!
'ear!
When you want something good to eat-just
go to the Winter Garden in the Crystal Palace.
Dinners, Grills, Ices,
Afternoon Tea—
wHtRE
EftRYBODY
In the Famous Picture Block, George Street, Sydney.
Re Suffering Woman.
Deab Bulletin, —The arrogant misconduct
of the suffragettes in Britain has brought
about a complete exposure of the “inequality
of the Sexes” fiction which is even now the
stock-in-trade of the hard-trodden sistern
from a platform. The heaviest Parliamentary
weapon that woman has been provided with
in Britain is the Married Women’s Act of
1895, which enables her to get separation and
maintenance and legal custody of the chil-
dren from a husband who assaults her, under
maddening provocation or otherwise. If an
eternal diet of “tongue pie” drives a hus-
band from his home he can be sued for
maintenance. He can get a divorce from his
wife only on the ground of adultery, and
even then he may have to provide her with
means of support. He can get a ffigal separ-
ation only on the ground of her habitual
drunkenness, and the loss of her unsober
society leaves him still liable for payment of
her board and beer money until she drinks
herself to death. On the other hand, a wife
can forsake her home and kids with im-
punity. If she is giddily inclined, she can
pick a quarrel witli her moderately disre-
spectable hubby and go and live with mother,
or abide with her late lodger’s convenient
sister, at the expense of the husband she has
chucked up. If she possesses money of her
own, she may pledge her husband’s credit
for “necessaries,” whereas he cannot pledge
hers. Though she have £lO,OOO a year in
her own right she need pay nothing for
maintenance or education of her children, as
long as she has a husband who can be sued
for the cost thereof. Her husband is civilly
liable for her tortious acts, such as libel,
lie is liable in civil law for any damage she
may inflidt on the maid-servant within his
gates, or on the horse or ass she hires from
a livery stable, although his income may be
small and hers may be large. Woman is
now “the spoilt child of the Law,” and all
the hard-faced champions of their mostly un-
reflective sex are well aware of the fact.
Hence their arrogance. Single or married,
woman is treated as though she were
always the injured party when she takes
action against a man, and as though she
were much to be pitied when he takes action
against her. A youth may be punished for
seducing a girl many years older than him-
self. When she is convicted of a crime
against the Law, the Law shows her a con-
sideration which no man could hope for.
Also, society shows her as much considera-
tion. The woman caught thieving in a
drapery store is rarely prosecuted, and when
prosecuted she is likely to be discharged as a
kleptomaniac. Dishonest servant girls are
privileged malefactors in comparison -with
dishonest men servants. The man caught
stealing a hammer from an ironmonger is
prosecuted and sentenced to six months. Sen-
tences of imprisonment passed on women who
insist on being inexcusable are light as com-
pared with sentences passed on men, and
when they get into prison the same old con-
cession to'their unfair sex is granted again.
In fact, all the Right—apart from the pre-
cious Vote —that modern woman has been
denied in English-speaking countries is the
right to know exactly how she stands in the
scheme of civilisation. She ought to have
had her position explained to her at school.
Just now she is having some wholesome
truths hurled at her by the newspapers, and,
what is of more importance, her male rela-
tions are beginning to feel strange yearnings
for the very Equality which the female agi-
tators would be darned sorry, to get.—Yours,
etc., O.K.
“Tangita Ivino” : The party to which Pre-
mier Massey belongs once staked its politi-
cal shirt in opposition to land taxation. It
fought hard for the old Propertv Tax, and
having lost the battle, went down for' 20
years. At last it has come back to office,
and one of the first things it has done is to
propose an increase in the graduated Land
Tax. This goes to show that democracy does
get forward a little bit sometimes. Even a
Tory party with a majority can’t afford to
be too reactionary Massey wants cash
badly. The graduated tax will bring him
some. He also wants to look as if he meant
business. The graduated tax looks remark-
ably like business. Of course, it isn’t, but
what’s the odds, as long as John Smith
thinks it is? A person with £lO,BOO, taxable
balance, will pav £9 instead of £B, and a
person with £200,000, taxable balance, will
pay £OO6l instead of £"5000. Which looks
like a great deal of extra money, but isn’t
in reality much more than if the present
writer paid 4d. instead of 3d. for every 65th
beer he consumed.
The overcrowded and financially-embar-
rassed hospitals of Sydney, which live as
best they can on doles, cadges, hospital Sat-
urdays and such like, got another bad ad-
vertisement last week, when a girl named
Daisy Hallam cut things short at the age of
21. She was a chronic sufferer, just bad
enough to be constantly miserable,' and yet
not so bad that a hospital bed could
be spared for her while worse cases were
waiting. She was a working girl, and
couldn’t afford the expense of a pri-
vate sanatorium. So she applied at the
cemetery to see if a bed was vacant there,
and for once her luck was in. Quite a com-
modious, subterranean four-poster with grass
curtains happened to be available.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Chocolate Soldier.”
Criterion “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Royal “The Woman.”
Adeleiij “ Queen of the Redskins.”
Palace “The Girl from Waybaek.”
Tivoli Rickards' Vaudeville Uo.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial Continuous Pictures.
Empress Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Glaciarium 1 p .
Olympia / wests Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Y.M.C. A. Hall Margaret Cooper.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s “ Sweet County Kerry.”
King’s “ On Our Selection.”
Royal “ Ben Hur.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pitures.
Lyric. Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
“The Woman,” now at Sydney Royal, is
the reverse side of the “Get-Rich-Quick
Wallingford” gold brick. And it looks more
like real life than the Criterion idyll of the
two Fiji nephews who accidentally made
simple Battlesburg with their covered carpet
tacks. The bowelless politicians of the
Royal production might have been boiled
down by the Self-Made Merchant, and put
on the market as ITime Washington Lard.
In a word, they are genuine and substantial
hogs. William C. De Mille’s stage story
could be told in two acts; but the curtain
falls like the guillotine on the cross-examin-
ation of the stubborn little telephone girl
who knows All, only to rise again on ex-
actly the same scene. The interval, of
course, is useful for drinking purposes. The
play is elaborately woven round a strong
central idea — -i.e., that the boss grafter’s
daughter (who is also his trusted lieutenant’s
wife) _is the unknown woman with whom
Standish, his well-hated political opponent,
was indiscreet in the wild young days. The
fiercely moral and, therefore, dangerous
Standish is on the eve of attaining power,
and the desperate grafters have laboriously
"athered up all the fuses of his explosive
past save the name of his lady companion.
Knowing that his first instinctive move will
be to warn her of the impending danger, the
ruthless old politician bluntly tells him the
position, and leaves him, reiving on the
’phene girl, at whose elbow he'has bellowed
his villainy, to later supply him with the
“THE WOMAN,
AT SYDNEY
RO YAL.
Hon Silas Gregg
(Robert Whyte,
Jun.).
number when he
rings up th«
girl who shared
his past and
warns her. But
the girl refuses
valiantly, de-
spite the fact
that she loves
the old grafter’s
incurably honest
son. The climax
of the play is
reached in Act
11., where
Standish has a
hurried inter-
view with his
partner of old,
and shocks her
by refusing to
save the position by withdrawing his
precious Railway Bill—-the grafters’ price of
silence. He points out that he offered to
marry her after “the honeymoon that never
came through the Custom House,” and that
she refused. He, therefore, considers that
he has a right to go ahead. And go he does,
with great success, while the grafters bully
the loyal litle ’phone girl and stumble slowly
towards the unpublishable truth. The com-
nany is uniformly good. Hilda Spong has a
trying hysterical role as the compromised
woman; but she acts throughout with
charm, and handles well the scene in which
she tries to bluff the shrinking ’phone girl,
who has ventured to come and warn her of
her danger. Florence Gleeson is heavily
burdened with the part of Wanda Kelly,
the hello lady; but it is full of opportunities,
and the clever little artiste doesn’t miss one.
She has the centre of the stage when the
curtain rises, and she is there alone when it
falls. William Desmond, as the grafting
Hon. Jim Blake, supplies an impressive
sketch of an experienced and unprincipled
political cigar furnace; and Harcourt
Beatty, with his brisk style ”nd rasping
voice, is happilv placed as Mark Robertson,
his lieutenant and son-in-law. Sidney Stir-
ling rather lacks animation as the naturally
unheroic Standish. His polished and dis-
tinctively English style, too, is rather a han-
dicap ; but his work is clear-cut throughout.
Three middle distance characters are very
capably filled by Tlios. Lloyd (Ralph Van
Dyke), Robert Whyte, jun. (Hon. Silas
Gregg), and Herbert Leigh (Hon. Jim Neli-
gan). There is much “hon.” in the play,
even if there isn’t much honor.
“The Girl from Waybaek” is once more
at Sydney Palace in place of “What Women
Suffer.” The management allege that “The
Girl” has returned for the Spring horserac-
ing. It seems a reasonable excuse.
At the head of the National Amphitheatre
bill are the trick cyclists, singers and dan-
cers, who elect to be known collectively as
“Les Bow.” Why “Les Bow” this paper
doesn’t grasp, any more than it compre-
hends the programme’s references to their
“dainty Parisienne dances and songs.” Music-
hall French seems to be getting more bizarre
even than menu French, and that has been
recognised universally, for years, to be fully
as weird as M.L.A.’s English. It is even
worse than the language of Chaucer’s best
girl, who spoke good French “aftfer the scole
of Stratford-atte-Bowe,” because she had
never met French as it. was spoken at Paris.
The Jourdane Quartette, and Corrie and
Baker continue to elude the decayed vege-
table of the hostile critic with the ease of
accomplished artists. Hamlin and Mack
and The Serenaders are doing their swan
song-and-dance, amid loud applause and
general grief. Miss Beaumont Collins and
her co. have revived their one-act comedy
sketch, “Bedfellows.” That is to say, the
management terms it a comedy. After look-
ing the word up in Webster the writer de-
clines to commit himself in the matter.
The wearisome Tivoli first-part is dying
a natural death. The old order is changing,
and now two or three big turns are in-
cluded. In the near future, proprietor
Mclntosh intends to renovate the part alto-
gether, and put it on an equal footing with
the more popular Part 2. There is quite an
army of newcomers this week, including
Nella Webb, a pretty Yankee-French sou-
brette; Ronald George, an instrumentalist of
some tonnage; Alberti Marini, the Quinlan
grand opera tenor; Taylor and Arnold, a
pair of Yankee comedians full of nonsense;
and comedians Blake and Granby. The best
of the bunch is NelD Webb, whose items,
half-sung, half-spoken in a pretty twang and
a slight French accent, catch on wonder-
fully. The De Serris troupe put their stage
clothes in their purse on Monday night, and
will appear no more in Sydney. Among
others present are La Freya, the French
artist, who dresses in a smile and a colored
light, the Three Sisters Macarte, and the
Rallis and Wilson Trio.
Zigomar has been holding the fort for
Spencer’s this week with “The Petrol
Pirates,” or “The Deeds of the Daring Des-
peradoes.” This is another of the detective
films, with their headquarters in France,
wherein, until the last 50ft., the detectives
look like being beaten on points, but at the
last 2Jft. win on a knockout. This picture’s
chief feature is an exciting motor-car chase,
Police v. the P.P’s., or D.D’s. “The Funeral
of the late General Booth” wanders slowly
across the screen, to the accompaniment of
many weeps and sobs from the Salv’army.
The Funniest Man Competition is in its
second stages, and, so far, there is no rumor
that the Comic Australian is leading bv
three lengths.
“The Queen of the Redskins” is still at
home at the Adelpln, Sydney. At the time
of writing, there is no mention of how long
her Majesty will remain in residence there.
Possibly she will stay until the supply of
black paint and burnt cork gives out.
* * * s*
This scribe begins to wish that Walling-
ford would get rich quicker and retire. He
is tired of recording the fact that the adven-
turer is still burglarising the box-office re-
ceipts at Sydney Criterion.
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, it is estimated
that Talleur Andrews has already swallowed
about lcwt. of chocolates in the execution
of his duty, and there are indications that
he. will get away with something in the
neighborhood of a ton unless something un-
pected turns up and kills the New Comic
Opera Co.’s amazing vogue.
Adelaide Tivoli is showing some first-in-
Australia turns. Thomas Bentley does the
familiar Dickens-impersonation: business, and
does it finely, holding his house all the time.
Also, he gives a lesson in the art of make-
up, dealing with his handsome Ilarcourt-
Beatty sort of face in full view of the audi-
ence, and converting it into the face of
Uriah Ileep or Montague Tigg, or even
Quilp. He is a Dickens enthusiast, doing
nothing else, and is anxious to see “Fellow-
ships” established all over this land. (Vic-
toria has two or three already.) The other
newcomers to Australia are the Keltons—
father, mother and a Girl. They blow music
by mouth or hand on cornets and other
things, and are perhaps—though it is a big
thing to say—a little more expert in ham-
mering harmony out of the xylophone than
anyone else yet seen here. This house is
now under Mclntosh control, with manager
Marcus in charge.
At Adelaide Royal, the Anderson co. has
finished off a long and most successful season
with “Camille” (excellent) and “East
Lynne” (pretty good). Mackay and Miss
Duggan deserve high praise for not spoiling
the death-scene—with its angelic effects —by
responding to the applause. At the same
house melodrama is now raised to its «th
" THE WOMAN." AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Hon. Jim Blake , grafter (William Desmond).
power by George Marlow, who stages the
Drury Lane thriller, “The Sins of Society.”
But the troopship and the weir are a desper-
ately tight fit for this little house. At the
King’s are the Chinese acrobats, the five
Pechillis, Curran, the one-legged trapeze ex-
pert, and those artistic Americans, Budd and
Clare. The various picture shows mostly
seem struck on Beetles, who certainly put
up a remarkable drama among themselves.
And the Exhibition has twice been crammed
by the public schools’ concerts, which in-
clude a lot of action-songs, and are' known
now by the picturesque title of “The Thou-
sand Voices.”
** * *
Melbourne Princess’s at present houses
“The Wearing of the Green,” a play in which
the costumes belong, to the seventeenth cen-
tury, the furniture to the twentieth, and the
brogue of some of the company not to any
age or to any time that the writer knows
of. This mellowdrama is as innocuous as
the “poems” of Ella Wheeler Wilcox, or the
recently-stained sword of Field-Marshal (or
is it Corporal?) J. Macarthur Onslow. It
is the sort of entertainment to which any
girl may take her young man with perfect
safety. Even should the said young man be
an incurable Orangeman, it is unlikely that
his anger will be roused by Allen Doone’s
unimpassioned crooning of “The Wearin’ of
the Green.” A. Doone gives one the impres-
sion that he would be quite capable of ren-
dering _ the Call of Brunhilda, from “The
Valkyrie,” as' though it were a lullaby, or
of cursing his oppressors in the accents of a
draper’s assistant expatiating upon the merits
of the latest and sweetest thing in camisoles.
On Saturday, “Sweet County Kerry” is to
replace “The Wearing,” etc., and it is under-
stood that Mishter Doone, with the aid of a
guide book, has compiled further ditties
anent the beauty sphots of dear ould Ire-
land, and intends giving the Lakes of Kil-
larney and the Rock of Cashel a well-earned
rest.
* * *
Minnie Ivaufmann, who rides a bicycle,
and Chinko, who juggles, also Fred Bluett,
the gentle, smiling vocalist, are the latest
arrivals at the Opera House. But the great-
est arrivals are the Schenk Bros. Their
strength of wrist, sense of equilibrium and
art of doing wonderful things in a casual
manner, command the admiration of this
paper, and almost put it in a humor to forgive
Mdlle. Margo, “the mystic lady,” for her
collection of antique “deceptions.” D’Arc’s
Marionettes are the least inhuman that ever
were, in this country, though not the fun-
niest, and Will Whitburn continues to be
droll on his old and original lines.
** * *
Last week, Melbourne Majestic starred
“The Tragedy of the Desert,” a thin story
“f domestic misconduct ballasted with camels
and hunks of Sahara. The idea that an
intelligent doctor should resent his wife’s
giddiness to the extent of flying into the
innards of Africa and becoming a bogus
Arab, gave to the narrative an element of
absurdity that even warm picture support-
ers found hard to swallow. “His Besetting
Sin,” a yarn of a man who gambled unwisely
and too often, appealed very strongly to the
right-thinking multitude ; while the “kinema-
color schemes around Late Garda, Italy,
attracted those who are sick of sermons, and


STECK
New Shipments of STECKS monthly In
Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut, Rosewood,
Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony, in Art Cases
One of" the World’s
Great p| ANOS<
The STECK Piano conforms in every
way to the exacting demands of the most
cultivated musical taste, and it is a Piano
of exqeptionallv beautiful tone quality.
For fifty years STECK Pianos have been
made in one grade only—the very best pos-
sible. They don’t change in tone with
time. As Manufacturers of the STECK, we
stake our reputation on its being one of
the finest Pianos possible to buy.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 Georsre .Street,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
252 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
436=438 Queen St,,
BRISBANE.
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
Insure
with the
*
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged,
' Piioue No. 330 General.
Settlements Prompt anp Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
are merely allured by bright pictures of
facts.
'!• $ H*
In “Man’s Genesis,” run off at Melbourne
Olympia on Saturday, Spencer became the
historian of a past, when Man’s commerce
with his brother Man was limited to casual
embezzlement of his tucker and his women.
Those were the times when the person with
the best dinners and the shapeliest girls was
the strongest ruffian in the land, but Spencer
shows how a mere weakling genius invented
the stone hammer, and thus substituted mili-
tary skill for mere ignorant brute force. The
only other photo-drama that need be men-
tioned was “The Equine Spy,” a U.S. war
story, testifying that the gee-gee, despite
the evidence of punters, can occasionally be
regarded as an intelligent animal.
* * * *
Literary drama had two nights out at
Melbourne Athenaeum Hall last week. John
Galsworthy’s “The Pigeon,” described as a
fantasy in three acts, and accepted by its
confused admirers as whatever they like to
think it, was the first of the Repertory Co.’s
strange ventures.
* * * *
The name character is a credulous man,
with the ideal artist nature. His philan-
thropy runs riot. He gives house-room to a
young flower-girl of easy virtue; a flippant,
ragged Frenchman, who smokes his cigar-
ettes and philosophises in broken English;
and an aged dipsomaniac. As to whether
the cynical foreigner secretly derides his
benefactor’s credulity, or respects him for
his goodness, the play is not explicit. Any-
how, all efforts to induce the three pick-ups
to work are crowned with dismal failure.
They prefer to take life as it comes, without
imposing any labor conditions on it, and the
only use the flower-lady makes of her billet
as domestic servant is to lead the footman
astray. None of these wastrels is so con-
vincing as Mr. Burns, the simple-minded
degenerate in “Passers-By.” The play has
no ending, and ho philosophy to speak of,
apart from the dictum that a dangerous
loafer in rags might have been a non-dan-
gerous loafer in purple and fine linen, which
is of no special interest to a community that
mostly lives and toils somewhere between
the two extremes.
* * * *
Gregan McMahon gave good dramatic
effect to the character of the futile French-
man, who clothes his philosophy in grime
and wreathes his dogmatic utterances with
cigarette smoke. Miss Hungerford (who is
Mrs. Mac) made a picturesque figure of the
flighty flower-girl who tries to drown herself,
but is rescued by a myrmidon of law and
order. T. Skewes was very passable as the
aged drunk, and Miss Isabel Handley, de-
spite her acidity of voice and manner, was a
satisfactory daughter to the exaggerated
philanthropist.
The revival of “John Gabriel Borkman”
brought very little new blood into the audi-
ence. Public demand was not forthcoming
“THE WEARING OF THE GREEN” AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
An Irish Bride.
A Grocer.
for a further acquaintance with that dull
ftory of morbid provincial self-esteem.
‘ Borkman,” as' a play, reeks with the
supreme egotism of Ibsen. The principal
characters are three of his wildest concep-
tions of human vanity in a Little Pedlington
environment —the environment beyond which
the rolling eye of the dramatist seemed never
to penetrate. Only one whose talent had
been saturated with the waters of the parish
pump and buttered with the adulation of the
local beadle could have been guilty of the
bourgeois spirit of this crazy sentimental
tragedy,
* * * *
The Repertory Co. shone considerably in
this sad entertainment. Miss Rose Seaton
as gloomy Mrs. 8., might have been Susie
Vaughan most of the time. Kingsley Norris,
as the busted banker, had the voice, pose’
and style of Julius Knight in “A Royal
Divorce.” His seedy , frock coat and pathetic
trousers were powerless to conceal the imi-
tation of Knight’s Napoleon. Miss Jolliffe,
as the lady Hamlet, maintained her aunty
emotions at boiling point, and the giddy
grass-widow of Mrs. JoSke was fair to see
and sweet to listen to. Also, there was a
dolefully droll old man who made a noise
like a nutmeg-grater.
“THE WOMAN,"
SYDNEY
KOYAL.
Tom, the
grafter's son,
very nice (A.
J. Patrick).
Concerning “On Our Selection,” at Mel-
bourne King’s, it seems desirable to mention
that seats cannot now be booked for more
than five weeks in advance, because the
season is limited to the . period afore-
said. And as regards “The Quaker Girl,”
at Her Majesty’s, this paper must insist
upon repeating the announcement of her
last nights. Her actual last week begins on
Saturday.
Senator Millen (N.S.W.) is making a
deafening low, just now, concerning the
alleged stuffing of the Commonwealth elec-
toral rolls—presumably by the corrupt ad-
dition of Government supporters. In which
connection compare the following figures
Estimate by Commonwealth Statistician
of N.S.W. population (31/3/’l2) =: . . 1,687,760
Calculated number of adults (56 per cent.) 945,000
Less calculated number of ineligibles .. 25,000
Total adults available to vote . . 920,000
Number of voters enrolled . . . . 935,000
Considering what a tremendous job it is to
count a population so scattered as that of
N.S.W. (a population which is largely on
the move, by the way), and considering, fur-
ther, what a stupendous task it is to enroll
the adult population as voters, any unbiassed
person would say that these figures were sur-
prisingly close.
A new form of “joy-riding” :
It transpired yesterday that the name of the victim
of the motor-car accident, near Windsor on Saturday,
was George Nixon. A driver’s license issued to L.
H. Greig was found on the body.— S. M. Herald.
Is this sort of thing general? It is bad
enough to be upset, and perhaps killed, by
George Nixon, driving on his own qualifica-
tions. But if one sits behind a speed of
50 miles an hour, and his guarantee of safety
is that driver Nixon has Greig’s guarantee
of competence about him, it seems like a
taking of needless chances. By the way, a
well-meaning ass, seeing in a paper that
someone named L. H. Greig had been killed,
hurried off to break the news to the latter’s
mother. She is now searching for that
officious sympathiser, figuratively speaking,
with a meat-chopper—which is the favorite
weapon of the fool-killer. One of the most
salutary of social axioms is: “Never break
the news to mother till you have perused the
death-certificate.”
Living is merely a habit —so is lying.
He who lives long, lies long; and he who
lives longest is a devil of a liar. At least,
that is the general rule. Russia’s centenary
celebrations of the battle of Borodino have
brought to limelight an aged farmer, who
says he is 120 years old, and that he was
forced by Napoleon, who had captured him,
to pilot the Grand Army through Poland on
its disastrous trip to s|oscow. Russia is a
wild, credulous, illiterate country even now;
but a century ago it was even more so. The
old man, if he has any documentary proof in
his breast or bomb pocket, is probably using
the credentials of his grandfather. As The
Bulletin has remarked before, the accred-
ited. 100-year-old is extremely rare. The
vanity of obscure ancients sometimes drives
them to add 20 or 30 years to their age, when
their contemporaries have trundled away to
the cemetery, or have become too doddery or
hazy in the head to argue about it. Younger
folk refrain from scoffing through politeness,
or dread of the inevitable fit of toothless
lury; and so the unsupported assertion be-
comes an established fact, and is duly re-
corded on a proud and eloquent tombstone.
A man of 120 may not be impossible; but he
would at least be difficult The maddest fea-
ture of the yarn, however, lies in the sug-
gestion that the great and far-seeing Nap-
oleon, the man of wiles and dodges and maps
and strategy and all manner of skilful pro-
positions, plunged into Russia, relying on the
chance that he might capture an agricul-
tural lout of 20 who had prooably never left
his native village to pilot him and his 600,000
men across a dead flat country of the most
friendly description. That discrepancy is so
vast that even a Russian pressman should
notice it.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Melbourne Savage Club, by way of expressing fond
affection for brother Albert Bailey in his prosperity,
has booked the whole of the d.c. at the King’s for
one night a week or so hence. An array of boiled-
shirted “Savages” and their womenkind in the d.c.
will not be calculated to lend any bush atmosphere
to “On Our Selection,” but as a display of superior
patronage of Australiahn drama for Australian’s sake
it will be impressive. More impressive than oppor-
tune in fact. The “Dad” play can crowd the house
every time without any assistance of that sort. Many
a struggling local production has felt the want of it.
Thomas Augustine Barrett, professionally known
as Leslie Stuart, composer of “Florodora” and other
musical comedies, has been under examination in the
London Bankruptcy Court. Liabilities, £12,075;
available assets, £1875. Causes of insolvency—-
living above his income and losses through the
piracy of his popular songs. He estimates that the
piratical printers and publishers robbed him of
£20,000. “Florodora” was the most successful of
his pieces. The profit from it up to date is ,£21,000.
“The Silver Slipper,” “The Belle of Mayfair,”
“llavanna” and “Peggy” made an average profit of
£3400. “Captain Kidd” was his only failure. The
Jews now draw 90 per cent, of his royalties. Bar-
rett was a boy of 14 when he was appointed organist
of the R.C. Cathedral in Manchester, and he spent
10 years in that city “teaching and composing
church music and songs.” • Then success came to
him, and swelled head followed, also extravagance
came after swelled head. And now T. A. Barrett is
apparently worth less than in the days when he was
a boy organ-grinder in the R.C. fane at Manchester.
“One Who Pays”: Re “On Our Selection” and the
tremendous boom it has created all over the Com-
monwealth, its outstanding virtue is its optimism.
Kendall, Gordon, Marcus Clarke, Lawson are pessi-
mists all. Rudd comes with the welcome relief of a
man falling over a dog at a funeral. Bailey gets
into the very skin of Dad. His creation ranks with
Williamson’s Stoefel and Emmet’s Fritz, plus the
virtue of being our own flesh, blood and bone. Won-
derful make up. Walks straight out of the books.
Bailey has regularly churned Dad in. More re-
markable even than Irving shrinking into Robes-
pierre, and stodging into Napoleon.
“C.P.”: The late Butters got at least one other
theatrical notice besides that mentioned by “Nemo”
(B. 19/9/’l2). It was in the ’6o’s —which was the
year the firm of Baillie and Butters suddenly retired
(or should one say, fled ?) from business in Melbourne.
An old burlesque—“lxion”—-was being played at the
Royal., Into the inevitable topical song Greville,
who with Harwood, was in the caste, introduced this
verse
Oh where and oh where has my little dog gone
Oh where and oh where can he be ?
Perhaps, like Butters, he has put up his shutters,
And cleared away off to Fiji.
Thin humor and Kiplingesque rhyming, I grant you,
but that is a way this brand of art has ever had.
“Vulcan”: Announced that tenor Caruso has just
signed on for twelve performances at Buenos Ayres
(Argentina) National Opera House for £16,800 —
£l4OO per night. If that is his price we shall pro-
bably never hear him in Australia—at any rate not
till he is entering on the has-been stage. And yet
when Hazon and Allen were in Europe collecting
Williamson’s Dago opera co., eleven years back, they
“couldn’t wait to hear Caruso, a coming tenor,” at
£4O per week, and decided on Carlo Dani, of grate-
ful memory, instead.
After the vanishing lady, the disappearing donkey.
This is the latest illusion of Maskelyne and Devant
at St. George’s Hall, London. A well-groomed and
intelligent-looking hee-haw, animal is brought on the
stage. Anyone who likes can go un and pat the
beast, so as to make sure that it is real ass and
blood. The- cabinet is open to general inspection.
The donkey is led, or, rather, pushed, into the
cabinet. The doors are closed for a second or two,
and when they are re-opened the cabinet is empty and
there is no donkey. This is a vastly more difficult
trick than the vanishing lady. The latter is an in-
telligeiji, creature, who knows how to work her in-
geniolfslyiisontrived but innocent-looking chair, and
to sink unperceived down the cunningly-concealed
trap-door. But the donkey is a cantankerous beast,
who donks under protest, and with bitter recrimina-
tion in his eye. And yet there have been more
wonderful shows. Witness the disappearing bank of
1893.
“Harrison O.” (his unsupported opinion given for
what it is worth) : “John Gabriel Borkman,” which
has just been revived at McMahon’s Repertory Theatre
(Melbourne), is surely one of the best examples of
Ibsen’s craftsmanship. As soon as the curtain goes
up on the first scene —-Mrs. Borkman’s sitting-room—-
a maid brings that lady a card which heralds the
entry of her sister and life-long rival, Ella. Within
two minutes of the commencement we are confronted
with an intensely dramatic situation. The drama
embodies histories, complete in all essential particu-
lars, of Borkman, his wife and his sister-in-law, yet
the action of the four acts is confined to one even-
ing, Borkman’s last evening on earth. Ibsen, by
his skilful use of the retrospective method, tells the
story backwards, and never loses his grip for a
minute.. The dramatist who, after studying the
works of the Norwegian craftsman, begins his play
at the beginning, deserves a bad end.
“Burton’s Circus” was once a familiar phrase all
over Australia. Its proprietor seems to be still on
this side of the Jordan. William Burton, “London’s
Oldest Showman,” has just been interviewed. Age
84. When a boy he went to sea as a stowaway on
the barque Essex, bound for Melbourne. Landed
there, possessing 55., to go on with. Fell in with a
man who was running a small circus, and joined
him. Learned how to ride horses and do acrobatic
tricks. At 24 had saved enough money to start a
circus of his own, and toured Australia with it, doing
well at Ballarat, Bendigo and other goldfields. Took
it to India and Japan, and returned to Australia with
the biggest circus ever seen there, including the first
troupe of Japanese wire-walkers and tumblers. “A
splendid show,” the old man called it, and it re-
tained its popularity for years in Australia and
Maoriland, the takings sometimes realising £250 a
night. After that came unlucky speculations, booms,
wild cats and bad times. Old Burton, at 84, is still
picking up a precarious livelihood as a showman in
the streets of London —assuming, of course, that he
is the same old Burton.
“Haresfoot”: William Winter, of New York, to my
mind the best theatrical critic living who uses the
alleged English language, has just published a volume
of intense criticism of Shakspearian performances he
has seen. it is real criticism, too; not merely a
series of agreeably written notices. Most critics are
peacocky, trying to show what fine fellows they are,
like the War Cry with General Booth getting 20
times'as much space as the Almighty., Winter thrusts
a hand into the gauntlet, and his volume is by far
the finest of its kind I have ever met. He dissects
the Hamlets with skill, and divides honors between
Booth and Irving. Despite the enthusiastic praise by
Dickens of Fechter’s Prince of Denmark, Winter turns
that actor firmly down. The interesting fact is re-
corded that Sarah Bernhardt’s Hamlet lasted six
hours on the first night of its production in Paris.
The critic holds that the greatest Othellos have been
E. Kean, Brooke and Salvini. It is now up to Jack
Johnson to try the part. About Brooke he says that
his finest characters were Othello, lago, Richelieu
and Virginius. Brooke’s unrivalled voice had broken
up or down or something before he came to Aus-
tralia. At his best his. performances were almost
operatic in charm of elocution, and he had a
statuesque beauty of attitude which was beyond
description. One curious feature of Brooke’s work
was its variability. He could never be twice alike,
while Charles Kean would always do exactly the same
thing at the same time.
W. G. R. Sprague, the London architect, who is
son of Dolores Drummond (the actress who made her
debut in Coppin’s Olympic, Lonsdale-street, Mel-
bourne, away back in the ’Bo’s, and who was the
leading lady to G. V. Brooke), has a big practice in
theatre construction. He is now supervising the re-
construction of the London Alhambra, for a long time
the home of the ballet, and an army of workers are
busy night and dav, so as to make a bright, new
theatre out of the dingy, dilapidated, old one, within
a couple of months. Also, Sprague is building an-
other gorgeous theatre in * Shaftesbury Avenue, close
to the Palace, which is to be called the “Ambas-
sadors” —a pretty big mouthful, and not particu-
larly felicitous. Furthermore, he is devising new
theatres for Bristol, Coventry and a dozen other
provincial cities. Asked “what about the new Lon-
don theatres'for Oscar Asche and H. B. Irving?”
Sorague replied, “Mr. Asche’s theatre w'll be pro-
ceeded with ere long. The date of starting Mr. Irv-
ing’s is not yet fixed. But all in good time.”
There are ructions in the house of Hammerstein,
the New York Jew who has given London a magnifi-
cent opera house that it doesn’t want. His sons are
in partnership with him in the show business, arid
they strongly object to the money they make in New
York being mopped up by the old man to pay his
losses on his ill-starred London venture. Willie
Hammerstein, manager of New Victoria Roof
Garden, which has proved a veritable'gold mine, is
the leader of the domestic or kitchen revolt. He re-
fuses to allow any of the profits of the roof garden
to be diverted to what he calls the “education of
the Londoners in grand opera.” Abraham, the
youngest of the Hammerstein scions, agrees with
Bill, and has been expressing his mind even more
freely about the old man’s “indiscretions in Lon-
don.” The latest telegrams indicate that the boys
will insist on their downtrodden parent running the
London opera house in future on “American vaude-
ville lines.” It is hardly worth while being the old
man in these days.
“Circle”: I may be about five years late in making
the discovery, but I now realise why the postcard
actress always bares her milk-white teeth. As seen
from the front row, gold-stuffed tusks are a gleam-
ing distraction. Every mime should chalk on his or
her make-up box, “Wear none but the best teeth.”
The gaze of the auditor-seems to centre mechanically
on the lips of the character who is speaking; and
the slightest defect becomes an irritant. As well
play Lord and Lady Montmorency in busted boots as
bite off splendid lines with inferior mouths.
(Continued on page 36.)
The man with the gun is always danger-
ous. and the discarded lover is worse than
the ordinary man, because of his nervous-
ness and excitability. So when young Rob-
ert Davies, of Port Melbourne, found last
week that his lady love had given him the
cold shoulder, and subsequently set about
cleaning and fixing up his breech-loader,
there was every chance of trouble. The
trouble duly arrived when he reached his
lodgings that evening. His ex-srirl, a friend
of the family, was in the dining-room con-
suming supper with one of the daughters.
Davies retired to his room for a space, then
emerged with the gun, and, seeing the two
girls standing at the dining-room door, fired
at them. They dropped—the ex-best girl
hardly damaged; the daughter of the house
so frightfully wrecked that it would have
been better for her if she had died on the
spot. She was, at latest, in hospital awaiting
the end. Having made such a mess of
things, Davies put in surer work with his
next shot by placing the muzzle of the gun
in his mouth and pulling the trigger. There
was hardly enough of him left to hold an
inquest on. These discarded lovers are an
unreliable harum-scarum lot. Davies would
have soothed his own troubles just as effec-
tively if he had killed himself first and shot
the girls afterwards; but the shootists never
seem to think of that.
SANCTUARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jack Cannot, of the “Nightbirds” Company, fihs
opened a fruit shop at Coogee.
A prospect of delicious peace, wherein with cloud-
less brow
And mind at rest, I may exist, appears before me
now.
Henceforward apples, oranges and such-like missiles
can
Be vended to the crowd in tons ; I shall not care a
d —n.
No longer shall a deal in “greens” immerse my soul
in gloom ;
I shall rejoice to see the trade in vegetables boom.
’Tis always so when actors—be they old, or young
and fresh —
Chuck Art, and sell the goods the critics hurl at the
Profesh.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
AN ORDINARY MUMMER REJOICES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vast intelligence is not usually the mark of the
star actor. —Cutting remark of “Ami” (B. 19I9I’12).
I’m glad I’m not a star—
Some things there are
I bar!
I don’t aspire to eminence
As lofty as the leading gents. !
For what’s the good?
Detractors would
Deny me “vast intelligence.”
Mummers as stars who reign,
Possess —it’s plain—
No brain!
Their ads. and posters are immense,
And though they show some grains of sense
When quoting terms,
Alas, poor worms!
They’re minus “vast intelligence” !
They get the fattest parts,
Enslave the hearts
Of tarts !
But off the stage, free of pretence,
They’re beings absolutely dense,
When they should shine
Or give some sign
Of having “vast intelligence.”
So I’m glad I am no star,
The sneering par.
Would jar!
And my limelit omnipotence,
Might—to my sorrow—give offence
To those who write,
And stars indict,
For lacking “vast intelligence.”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


THE NEW “MIXTURE
FELT HAT —12/6.
Here you see the new mixture Felt Hat—com-
posed of semi-smooth and silky hair Felt—in
finely blended shades of Green, Fawn and Grey.
Besides being very smart in appearance, and a
really good shape, they are exceptionally dur-
able, and will give you a surprising amount of
good wear. They have 2£in. wide brims 12/6
Better quality, in Greens, Browns and Fawns,
with 2Jin. brims 14/6
In Navy, Sage, Olive, Slate and Brown Mixtures,
with 2Jin. and 2|in. brims 16/6
Better quality 21 /-
Real Plush Felt Hats, in Ivy Green, with 2iin.
brims 25 /-
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE TO ANY PART
O J AUSTRALASIA.
DAVID JONES Ltd.,
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I
*6
as
raw ?
S&C
SK
arLo
’ -v
lUm,
liug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SRin Soap.
“ Beauty’s Aid. ”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugeimann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted return
mail.
*
Sole Proprietors'
H. E. KUQELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE!
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
A CRUSHER.
“I got an awful knock this morning
"Go on. How did it happen? ”
“On my way to the links an old lady asked
me if I could mend her umbrella while she
watted, and how much would I charge."
The Yellow Pup is a loud animal in his
native backyard; but he seems to be as
pathetically futile there as elsewhere. Accord-
ing to a cable, “a Unionist demonstration at
Ballyroney, County Down, was marked by
great enthusiasm. All the Orange Lodges
paraded the streets with drums which were
beaten vigorously by stalwart men with their
coats off, the din being terrific.” It isn’t the
thinking dog that makes the most noise. The
Pup had ever a loud yelp, but he hasn’t as
much bite in him as an old age pensioner
with inferior false teeth. It has never sunk
its alleged fangs into the Pope’s leg—it
hasn’t even torn the gaiters off a bishop, or
bitten the hand of a hedge-priest. It just
lurks behind the Walls of Derry and beats a
drum with its stalwart tail —the least in-
tellectual end of an animal, which always
seems to travel in the dust cloud at the latter
end of Life’s procession.
Adelaide badly wants to know whether it
was the horse or the man that was tired of
lifeV Or was it both? A tram-car was
scratching for its life along the Unley-road.
It had its time-table to consider, and it was
a case of “root hog or die.” A horseman
appeared, riding straight at it, between the
rails. It was naturally assumed that he
"would turn off. When he seemed rather long
about it, the driver rang the bell hard. In
another second he rang like a madman. Then
he rang like perdition, and dragged at every
handle at once, and shoved on the brakes and
everything else, and backed till the street was
red-hot, and dodged for his life. But horse
and rider simply galloped into the front of
the car —they didn’t even utter a cry of hor-
ror while doing it —and broke their two
necks.
Years ago, when Parkes was consul, and
'N.S.W. politicians used to fight like devils
in the refreshment room, someone advertised
briefly in a Sydney paper: “I, John Smith,
am not the John Smith who was fined for
drunkenness yesterday. (Signed), John
Smith.” Something of the same sort hap-
pened last week, vide this advt. in the S. M.
Herald
We, the undersigned, are not the Mrs. Bearparks
who lost the pawn-ticket of ring.
(Signed), Mrs. G. and H. Bearpark.
There was no adddress on the brief chron-
icle, and the circumstances under which two
Mrs. Bearparks lost a pawn-ticket and two
more were wholly unconnected with the deed,
remain unexplained even unto this day.
It was suggested (very respectfully, of
course) to the Tas. University Council re-
cently that the reformed spelling adopted
by the Victorian Education Department might
be worthy of consideration by the Speck’s
Uni. authorities; but the suggestion almost
apoplexed that erudite body. One indignant
owl ruffled up his neck-feathers and remarked
that the present spelling was practically
settled in the time of Dryden, and as it had
acted very satisfactorily ever since, there was
no need to alter it in any way whatever.
Why the objector accepted the spelling of
King Charles’s time, and ignored the in-
finitely older, and, consequently, more sacred,
spelling of King Alfred, is a mystery. An-
other venerable gent, uprose in anger, and
quaveringly hoped that “until these extraor-
dinary orthographical variations were more
generally adopted, the University of Tas-
mania would decline to encourage them in
any manner.” So the Speck’s University
will continue to spell in no more modern way
than that deemed permissible by the com-
pilers of the Oxford Dictionary. The rest
of the world may spell as it dash well likes.
Tassy will be no party to the sacrilegious
poisoning of the wells of ye olde gentylmanne
hight Chaucer.
* * * *
“Harrison O.” : The wages of sin may be
death, but what of the wages of saintliness?
Another of the periodical shrieks anent the
sweating of expounders of the Word has
gone up in Melbourne. The bloated Angli-
can Church, to which Fat largely belongs,
and the coffers of tvhieh are swollen with the
rents of valuable city lands that were
granted to the church by past Governments,
is a particularly outrageous offender in this
respect. At the Diocesan Synod of 1910 a
motion was passed opining that every official
soul-repairer should be guaranteed at least
£2OO a year. At that time nearly one-third
of the parsons in charge of parishes in the
diocese were receiving less. The list in-
cluded laborers in the Vineyard who were
in receipt of £195, £194 and £lBO per annum.
The synod’s resolution has not, so far, been
given effect to, and in the diocese of Mel-
bourne at the present time there are 26
wearers of the holy choker who are annex-
ing. on an average, £166 a year. There is,
also, one person who snatches brands from
the conflagration at £122 per dozen months.
It would be interesting to know how much
this is per brand. Outside the Melbourne
diocese things are even worse. Verily, Chris-
tianity covers a multitude of sins.
The plaint of “Gentleman Two” :
One of the side-results of the' R. D. Meagher row
has been to make public the fact that the N.S.W.
Law Institute is not the potent and authoritative
institution it has for so long tacitly represented itself
to be, but a more or less irresponsible body. It ap-
pears that the concern is not authorised by Parlia-
ment ; it has no charter; no genuine legal status;
no anything. Only a paltry percentage of solicitors
so much as pretend to owe it allegiance. Of these,
about 10 per cent, take sufficient interest in its
existence to turn up and vote at the election of
officials. Its position is analogous to that of a union
within a union—a very small, tired union inside a
very large one. Supposing a handful of wharf lab-
orers suddenly announced to their union that they
had been formally elected by a handful of members
as the officials of the Bag-carrying Institute; and
that, in their Bag-carrying Institutional capacity
they proposed to deal with any wharf toiler who
misbehaved himself,, to the extent, possibly, of de-
priving the said toiler of the means of earning his
living for all time. In such a case there would cer-
tainly be general ructions. Probably the first to
talk of the tyrannous villainy of such conduct would
be , th ! ™ enib ers of the Law Institute, and the quick-
est off the mark in the matter of urging Parliament
to interfere would be the more affluent Gents. One
The strong position that the Law Institute has been
able to arrogate to itself is an interesting example
of the way the public yields to audacious preten-
sions when the same are buttressed by the proper
brand of gravity and pompousness—also, preposter-
ousness. ’ F
WHAT WOULD YOU DO?
“Yes, very, pretty; but Tm afraid you're gelling
me on the wrong side of the ledger."
“Well, isn't that better than getting on the
wrong side of me?"
Paris Nesbit, K.C., made a sporting at-
tempt the other day to get an Adelaide dealer
in railway return-tickets out of a £5O fine
imposed by Judge Buchanan. Whether there
is anything morally wrong about these sales
is a question, but the Law says they are not
to be made. The difficulty is to get proof.
In this case the Railway Commissioner had
authorised one of his own officials to try jo
buy tickets on the quiet—which he did with-
out difficulty. Therefore, argued Nesbit on
appeal, the Commissioner had authorised the
sale! Appealing is hard work in S.A. Su-
preme Court, because there are only three
Judges. The one who tried the case doesn’t
think he was wrong, so it means convincing
the other two against him. In other words,
the appellant goes before a jury of two, and
has to get a unanimous verdict, or else lose.
In this instance, Judges Way and Murray
agreed with Buchanan that, even if the
Commissioner’s act had been “un-British,”
as Nesbit declared, it did not make the un-
lawful sale lawful.
* * « - *
“Melb.” goes off like a motor-cycle or a
string of Chinese crackers about matters of
bedroom and domestic interest: —
A man does not look for a woman under the bed.
The woman occasionally neglects to look for a man.
One night a student of Fitchett’s Methodist College
didn’t. She found one, or rather a boy, a chap of
about 16. Hubbuboo and ululation, as their favorite
classic poets say. The fellow escaped, but has since
been lumbered, and awaits magisterial consideration.
He was in the college before. Seen upstairs by night
at the end of a corridor, but jumped through a
window, and slid 20ft. down a waterpipe. Some
years ago one of these Romeos worried Miss Tripp’s
boarding school in Prahran. A cat-like, nocturnal
balcony-clamberer was he. Even after he had been
warned by the beaks, there was a midnight cry of,
“There he is again!” In the early days of the
wedded life of Queen Victoria and Albert they were
annoyed by the intrusions, at Buckingham Palace, of
the celebrated boy Jones, nick-named, In-I-Go Jones.
It is alleged that he was dragged from under a sofa
on which Vic. and Albert had been cooing. Gibbon
Wakefield, the Australian and Maoriland coloniser,
was handicapped through having been actually con-
cerned in two abductions. The last one got him a
term of, imprisonment. He prigged away Miss Turner,
an heiress, from a fashionable boarding school kept
by maiden ladies of the moft horrible respectability,
and took her to Paris.
“Mr. Ocky”: I
notice that the cap-
tain of the Comboyne,
the little vessel which
sought an opening
through the
water at Port Ivembla
(N.S.W.) and sank
because it was unsuc-
cessful, sent all his
men ashore and him-
self stayed with the
boat until it went
down. Then he had
the Devil’s own job to
get free of the swirl
of water and swim to
shore in the. rough
sea. He was hauled
out in an exhausted
and half-dead state.
Why all this absurd
display of alle g e d
duty on the part of
captains when there
is no occasion or de-
sire for it? It was ob-
vious even to a
corpse that the Com-
boyne was going to
sink almost immedi-
ately after the smash.
Every man on the
vessel, including the
captain, knew this. It
was obvious even to
the cook, and the
slushy could see it
with one eye. Why,
then, should the cap-
tain remain behind
unless he was deter-
mined to go to D.
Jones with the ship,
which he showed
afterwards he did not
want to do?
The title of “alderman,.” with any special
fur trimmings and flummery attaching
thereto, has been abolished in Victoria, un-
less the House of Rich Landlords rejects the
Bill to that effect which passed the Leg. As-
sembly last week. A pathetically humorous
incident of the decision to blot out alder-
manic distinction was the presentation of a
document from the Gaud Mayor and his be-
robed brethren, begging leave to come and
make representations before the bar of the
House. Their prayer was refused. The
House lost its chance of hearing the City
Fathers trace the origin of their ancient order
of gobblers back to early Saxon days, in that
dear old Mother Country where all Austra-
lian symbols of human greatness come from.
They might at least have argued forcibly that
the term “alderman” is a merciful absurdity
for a Gaud Mayor to fall back upon when his
term of supreme hoffice has expired. The
drop from being a gaud to the rank of mere
councillor _is like the case of the field mar-
shal who is degraded to the status of a com-
missariat mule.
A SUGGESTION FOR THE THEATRE
MANAGER.
The conductor of the London Gaiety Theatre is said
.to have decided to insert a clause in his contracts
with actresses to prevent them marrying during the
currency of their engagements.
Dear Bulletin,—l notice that the Rev. S.
D. Yarrington, the Sydney holy sensational-
ist, says he could bring to Minister Flowers
“white girls who have been rescued from
these hells [i.e., the alleged Sydney opium
dens], and who know of what they are
speaking.” The proceeding, says Yarring-
ton, would make Minister Flowers shed
tears. Well, why doesn’t the holy man do
it, instead of talking so much, and thus wipe
out any suspicion that he is a manufacturer
of false evidence? If the Minister wants to
weep I will lend him a bucket. —Yours, etc.,
Anti-Chinaman.
A JINGLE OF FALSITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Continuing, witness said Truelove was cranky tem-
pered when she was in Sydney. When he saw True-
love in Melbourne nine months ago, he could see she
had been dyed chestnut. All the dye was off her
body, but it was not off her tail.
“Have you seen horses dyed?”—“Yes, 20 or so
in Sydney, and I am sorry to say they mostly came
from Victoria.” (Laughter.) “They are nearly all
dyed chestnut.”
Dyed horses and ladies defeat us all;
Disgrace and blue ruin on them attend ;
Our dreams and our castles to pieces fall,
And Death gallops in at the bitter end ;
Your heart and pocket-book ever defend,
Or sure as a gun you will suffer loss.
The Devil has nothing more he can lend
To chemical lady or chestnut boss.
Oh, the safe, hedged life may upon you pall,
But fasten to it like a leech, my friend ;
Go mumble and dream in your tidy stall,
Nor make of mad Joy an explosive blend ;
Dyed horses and ladies a home will rend
And up to the heavens a rooftree toss.
There is hardly comfort enough to spend
On chemical lady or chestnut boss.
Let the minxes go and the fielders call;
To hard-up repentance their pathways tread ;
The bailiff will wait in your mortgaged hall
And duns on your doormat their hate expend ;
They yield you a very poor dividend—■
Hairs grey as a badger’s—coats green as moss.
The Lord in His goodness our youth defend
From chestnut lady and chemical hoss.
N.S.W.
THE OFFICE WOWSER.
THE SQUARE DEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One clergyman at a Baptist gathering in Bendigo
declared that he knew several ministers who, after
30 years’ service, were receiving 30s. a week.
We mortals are content to pay
Top rates for boots, and cheese, and hay,
And bread and meat, however dear;
We ante up for fish and beer.
But see how paltry are the doles
We,give to savers of our souls.
The preacher man is gaunt and grim,
And shabby are the togs on. him ;
The grocer man is sleek and fat,
And wears a shining guinea hat.
We pay our brethren well enough
If they deliver us the stuff.
VICTORIA.
S.S.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, oO Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
the proper ptaee to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Best thing
to whiten
the clothes
Mrs. E. Field, , of Newtown , Sydney f
writes :
“ Stinlight Soap is the best
I can get for whitening the
clothes. My doctor told me
I was to use .no other soap
than ‘ Sunlight ’ as it is a
true skin purifier.”
GOOD
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP
Beautiful Finger Nails.
Would you like to have your nails possess
that pink, shiny, shelly appearance that is
so attractive ?
If so, use
De Leon’s
Nail Polishing Powder.
A dainty toilet specially obtainable in 1/6
boxes from Washington H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co., all Chemists, and
the proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,
Melbourne.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 C 0„ Melbourne,
for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
h
A COOL SOUTH AMERICAN
PANAMA for warm days, 18(0
The most essential factors to be considered when buying a
Panama are those of evenness of color and uniformity of
weave.
The shapely oval crowns and brims of our Panamas, com-
bined with their evenness of color and plait, make them ideal
hats in every way.
Their extreme lightness in weight is also a prime factor in
their popularity with men who demand real Summer comfort
in this form of headwear.
We strongly recommend the folding Panama featured here
to those who want a good article at a reasonable price.
2-iin. to 3|in. brims. State width of brim preferred and
size when ordering.
Extra Quality : 21/-, 25/-» 30/-
Write for New Catalogue.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
With the confidence of long immunity, the
Melbourne burglar grows careless these
times. Two of the gentlemen lately spent
several hours in a boot factory, selecting and
packing up the better class of the stock of
raw material, humped it down a long yard,
and then heaved the bundles over an Bft.
fence into a right-of-way, where a mate stood
handy with a “borrowed” horse and cart.
Twice O’Gallaghan’s exhausted subordinates
tramped past the end of the lane, but the
burglars burgled on. Another housebreaker
found on the door of a house he was visiting
a memo, stating “The grocer called.” “Ditto
the housebreaker,” he wrote, and proceeded
to collect a handy swag at his leisure. But
these artists get too confident. They will yet
rob O’Callaghan of his assurance, or Mur-
ray of his night’s rest, and the loss will
rouse the forlorn victims to do something.
* * * *
Those Welsh settlers whom Victorian
Rich Landlord Bloomfield Rees persuaded to
desert far Patagonia, and settle in Victoria,
are causing worry to the Melbourne quaran-
tine officials. _ They brought with thern some
£l2OO worth of lucerne seed, which is in-
fested with the disease or parasite or disaster
commonly known as dodder, and this is
much the same as Upper House. The offi-
cials desire Ihem to take it away and boil it
or burn it. or at least keep it out of the
country. It is to be hoped the officers will
remain firm. Australia has enough per-
sons, let alone plants, afflicted with dodder,
also potter, totter, blither, slumber, stagger,
shikker and so forth. What it would wel-
come is a consignment of the seed of bogger.
A heavy crop of boggers-in is urgently wanted
between AcFlaide and Darwin.
A POINT OF LAW.
If Moore bad entered the house, as he pretended,
through a wide-open window (though he had to scale
it with a ladder), that entry would not have been
burglarious, and his attack on Mr. Syme would not
have been a capital offence. — Legal point.
FRESH-AIR ENTHUSIAST : “Help! Burglars!”
BARKER BILL: “ Burglars? No fear, Miss!
I'm rehearsing the balcony scene from
‘ Romeo and Juliet?”
Victorian Speaker Madden gave words of
advice lately to a troop of Boy Bouts.
The main thing for a scout to do, he said,
was to observe and find out what the enemy
was doing. This could be found by the foot-
prints of their horses’ hoofs not, let it be
observed, by the tails of their horses heads.
Also, it was useful to be able to tell the
height of a tree—the scout should put his
back to a tree and look between his legs, and
walk till he could see the top. Then he had
the height.” Possibly! George Reid or
Spruce Smith might practise the feat with
advantage; but it must either be a very
short tree or a very long walk.
SECURITY.
THE SOLID ONE: “A’fiver, eh? But how do
I know I shall ever get it back? ”
THE POMPOUS ONE : “Sir, you have as security
the word of a gentleman.”
T.S.O.: “Oh, that’s a different thing. Why
didn’t you briny; him with you?”
“Side-lights” : There has recently been a
suspicion of an echo of a whisper that the
S.A. Marine Board has stirred in its sleep
and murmured something about thinking of
doing something to remove the corpse of the
barque Norma, which was wrecked about
four years ago and has been waiting ever
since at the Semaphore anchorage for a
chance to poke a finger in the pie and the
plates of some innocent and unsuspecting ship
that wanders round that way. The wreck
has done some damage at least twice already,
but it was nothing that a few thousand
pounds couldn’t put right, so the Board con-
temptuously ignored the incidents. Any-
how, the Board is now said to have discov-
ered that there is a wreck lying round some-
where, and I Know that.the 'nformation will
call forth loud applause and hearty ringing
cheers from the harassed mariners who have
been dodging this particular death-trap for
the past four .years.
* * * *
“John Flop” writes :
O’Callaghan’s cop does not lead a very happy life.
Recently 17 of him were lined up for having the
rooms at the Russell-street (Melbourne) barracks un-
tidy. The pffences consisted in leaving three dead
matches under one bed, a piece of orange peel under
another, and- permitting dust to remain on a con-
stable’s locker; also, one whs charged with not hav-
ing his window blind at the regulation height. They
were let off With a caution, and warned that they
would be beheaded if there was a repetition of the
offence. In the case of the Hop who didn’t have his
window blind “at the regulation height,” there wasn’t
a cord on it, and hadn’t been one for six months, and
so the cop couldn’t null the blind .down. The second
one, who dropped three dead matches on the floor,
did so while he was looking for some of his clothes
which had strayed, and which he couldn’t find with
the light O’Callaghan provided. Another constable
was jumped on because he hung his clothes on the
wall when he was changing. Yet he didn’t have any
other place—but the floor—to hang them on, because
there were 11 men sleeping in the room originally
built for six, and there weren't enough lockers to go
round. And yet O’Callaghan seems to be perfectly
satisfied with the state of things.
The up-to-date burglar is a man of fore-
sight. Fie doesn’t rush crudely at premises
and hit them with an axe or crowbar; rather
he is a Sikes of large discourse, looking be-
fore and after. Fie likes to inspect the locks
of buildings and strong-rooms while they are
under construction, and to get duplicate kevs
of safes that are for sale, and then trace these
safes to their destination when they are sold.
Then doth Sikes lightly come and lightly go,
like the fox that was caught in the end by
his light fantastic toe. A recent unfortunate
accident gave away the game. A big and
wealthy Sydney firm is having its building
altered, and a new strong-room put in.
That room will be worth plundering when it
is in use, so Sikes came by night, walking
gently, like a feather blown before a zephyr,
and took moulds of the locks. Then, by ill-
hap, someone disturbed him, and he fled like
the tatters of a defeated army, without wait-
ing to obliterate the traces of his visit. So
all the locks will doubtless be changed, or else
the firm will take all its money to the Safe
Deposit every night, and keep nothing in the
strong-room except a tiger.
“N. or M.” pursues his historical investi-
gations :
Hampden - road,
Hobart, was named
after a person who
held the position
of Comptroller of
Leg-irons, or Com-
missioner of the
Public Lash, or
something in the
dark ages. He built
Stowell as his pri-
vate residence,
making use of the
convicts at Port
Arthur t o quarry
stone for the build-
ing. To this the
small tenpenny
papers of the day
strenuously object-
ed, and the fuss
rose and in-
creased, and multi-
plied, and blew up
like the cloud
above Vesuvius, and
became so large
that Hampden was
actually recalled to
England to answer
for his sins and
his new house. This
seems to show that
even in those days
officials couldn’t do
everything they
wanted to do with
convict labor. Sto-
well was subse-
quently sold to the
Butler family. Re
a par of mine
which appeared
some time ago. I find that —hearsay notwithstand-
ing—the house in Macquarie-street, Hobart, which
was Frozen Franklin’s last Tasmanian camp, was
merely used as a Government store, and never re-
garded as a Government residence. It was built by
Roland Walpole Soane (Rolling Walloping Soane of
early fame), who married a daughter of one of
Tassy’s Governors, and whose name is firmly im-
bedded in the insular records.
A mere gent, who tried to collect Costs
like a Gent. One was sternly turned down
by Adelaide Insolvency Court the other day.
As agent, he attended faithfully and well at
the financial obsequies of a farmer, and asked
accordingly that he should be paid his “fair
and reasonable charges out of the estate,” as
provided by the Act. Now the Act distinctly
says “solicitor or agent.” The Court, how-
ever, reckoned that to let any stray agent
blow in without qualifications or “restraints
such as those imposed on the legal profession
in the interests of the public,” would be a
“freak in legislation.” Wherefore no order:
no costs; no nothing.
An Art note from Melbourne: —
If there is any Vic. painter to whom Ma Nature
should feel truly grateful it is John Mather, who has
just suspended HI pictures for exhibition at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum. John presents Ma’s finest views
in a pious and seemly manner, and there is nothing
in his treatment of his themes verging on impiety
or even impertinence. He deals with decorous wave-
lets, sculpturesque cliffs, well-behaved cloudscanes
and so on, and turns out liis works like art supple-
ments. “Reflections,” his most pretentious picture,
depicts a promenade of beach greying into night
with a couple of human figures to give it civilisation.
The other big canvas, “The Golden West,” fairly
well priced at 100 guineas, is a dying sunset sensa-
tion, treated as a sort of atmospheric anti-climax.
The sketch of a patriarch, probably Methuselah, is
an abler portrayal than the snapshot of a lady in a
kimono ; but there is an effort to paint something
above the commonplace in “Fernshawe,” a perspective
of gaunt gums and purple distance. “On the Buffalo
River'’ informs you that two or three kine desire to
drink, and “Chinese Gardens, Brighton,” is a simple
pictorial description of mostly vegetable beds in
parallel rows. The trees in the background, how-
ever, are interestingly limned, a remark which might
apply to “Under the Banksias” and “Gum Trees,
Heafesville.” One doubts whether the blare of the
afterglow in Nos. 29 and 57 is entirely convincing,
but the bits of Williamstown here and there do more
than justice to that average town.
It will be a great day when the Curates’
Revolution breaks out, and bishops run for
their lives, with sharpened collection plates
flying behind them, and the dread cry of
“Down with the gaiters!” ringing in their
ears. The infuriated worm will turn on oc-
casion, so the lower-deck isaint should be
capable of at least one revolution. And he
has received plenty of provocation. Some of
the worst sweating goes on in the Church,
which institution usually contrives to pay
its heads well, but is bitterly economical with
regard to the meek underlings. A blizzard
of protest is likely to be raised by the latest
idea for gilding the refined gaiters. It con-
sists of an Ecclesiastical Bill to provide a
retiring allowance for Clarke, of Melbourne
--the imported dignitary who came from an
English post, at £3OO a year, to take com-
mand in Victoria at just five times that
figure. For some time past he has been
getting £2OOO, and some Anglicans reckon
that he should be able to provide for his old
age out of his salary. No person expects an
elderly Archbishop to chase after Old Harry
at a high speed; so, with ordinary luck,
there should not be much unsalaried old age
to provide for. If his Grace does not reject
the proposal when it is brought up in Synod,
there will be hostile mutterings under the
curious flat hats that cover the minds of the
hungry-lookiug lower-grade clerics —the rank
and file of the toilers in the vineyard.
RELIGIOUS ITEM.
Concerning the statue of “The Pharisee,” in the
National Art Gallery, and 'the attitude of certain
Wowsers towards one clause in the Baby Bonus Bill
relating to single girls, and the parallel drawn
therefrom.
CHORUS OF WOWSERS: “Ah, the on-el, cru-et
wretch."
PROBABLE EXPLANATION OF A DARK
MYSTERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Wade concluded his speech by referring to what
he called the limited supply of candidates tor the
Liberal work.- — Sydney Telegraph.
“Why don’t the new men join me now?”
The leader cried, and clasped his brow.
“With paper drums I’ve made a row,
But ev’rything seems dead!
The path is clear, the cause is right,
But only vet’rans join the fight!”
A Voice came singing through the night,
“Because you’re Out!” it said.
“Because you’re D.own and out!”
“Not for all time!” the leader cried.
“We’re pressing close the other side ;
Into their places we may glide—■
Of that there is no doubt.
At any moment they may fall,
For their majority is small.”
“But Gregory,” the Voice did call,
, “Please don’t forget you're Out!
They’re In and you are Out !”
“Where are the stern, devoted men
I ever seek with voice and pen?”
The leader claspecl his brow again,
And wildly gazed about.
The Voice said: “Liberals of weight
Would all be Ministers of State :
But kerbstone bumps and scorn they hate!
. They don’t like going. Out!
And all your men go Out! .
Go OUT!!
O-U-T—OUT! ! !”
The leader, groping, sought his hat;
’Twas plain he had not thought of that.
N.S.W.
DISORDER & UPROAR.
AN IMPENDING VACATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The telephone operators of both sexes at the
-various exchanges in Sydney are up in arms at the
posting of a roster in the G.P.O. Exchange to the
effect that the hours are to be increased from next
Monday. The suggestion was at first made that a
strike should be organised, and the users of tele-
phones in Sydney appeared to be faced with the
prospect of a suddden stoppage of all telephonic com-
munication. — Sydney Telegraph.
There hangs upon the wall
The mouthpiece of the town ;
I like it not at all,
Yet dare not tear it down.
It has two silver bells,
Some metal and some wire ;
It clatters and it yells
When silence I desire.
It clatters and it yells,
Until 1 fiercely go
And still the trembling bells,
And loudly cry “Hell- oh!”
Then swift along the wire
There comes a buzz and cough,
And crackling sounds of fire ;
And someone says “Jting off!”
I ring, and straight depart,
Though I would like to stay,
And ope my bursting heart,
And all my curses say.
Then, when I’m settled quite
In some cool room remote,
The boxed electric blight
Sounds its accursed note.
I leap to do its will;
I run, and puff, and blow ;
Then my poor lungs I fill
And once more yell “Hell- oh!”
“What number, please t” she raps.
(I do a Highland Fling—
I blither!) “Well!” she snans,
“I wish you wouldn’t ring!”
Dear Girl! Her ears are sharp!
She hears the faintest “ting,”
She’s like a trembling harp—-
Until I really ring.
Until I really ring
Enough to wake the dead,
That dear responsive thing
Is to my number wed.
I ring and ring again !
I rave and ring like mad !
No answer comes. Oh, then
“Engaged!” would make me glad!
And she may go on strike
And cease to make a fuss?
This sort of news I like!
A rest for both of vs!
N.S.W.
HORATIO BREATHLESS.


If one break Into and enter a house
/or the purpose of stealing, or for any
felonious purpose, during the night
time he is committing burglary.
Night time is taken by the law to
extend between the hours of 9 o'clocb
p.m. and 6 o'clock a.m.
|r? inTerview
CI&O'Ke of Melbourne
' S v s
“tjje, bro-ffo^l 1
\Wtt)e V^b^SS 10
I Xof-
vio cV>urcb
N^di^ni+^rie^
M2\oistv&te .- VhaTis yo«f
. f 1 ' 0 "’
\ <aoorsTcb ' . u
8k Acd.cca :-"|w*s
K&\ fewboi'vy menTlkl *
L\V so. a ,r,e . a 3^
ok 48 houfs »n Kew A^ylurrr^
sster-i®^
We'll be burgla^.
" sW/ //s/s 7 1 -4. J
A fete fy* — " Wljo "W 7
v H«S sr*ce. AkcUi'sW C
pL. . r o vy,e m, M - ” S+bv/
Pef " “ |Jxi»KClkHa
lib "here.
Rev. A. W. Collins declared that he
knew ministers receiving only 80s.
a week, after 30 years’ service.
In ey-trem \tj
-j^ e QtA UetTrf f>o»nls
boor (
tpwU do ever
So rnudh t>edt*r
, curiae % L
c Vr««*
? ' in
DcajKin:— * ebf %yd I 'tiede tt/ee to dezs W itif
tny joKes tfje lAbo> "
Every year there is an increase in
the number of girls who are attracted
to the nursing profession. Nursing
is the finest possible occupation for
the girl who wants intellectual in-
terests . but the nurse has a long
anti difficult road to travel before she
can even dream of possessing a hank-
ing account.—Melb. paper.
The Chief Commissioner of Police
(Mr. T. O’Callaghan ) has reported the
theft of his pet collie, known as
“Jess,” from Carlton House, in Drum-
mond-street, where Mr. O’Callagban
lives. The dog is valued at £lO. and
Mr. O’Callaghan has asked the police
at the Russell-streei station to trace
both the dog and the thief.
i,t7cel only ie I>e nice
"to S onr >€. *' C° fcood
itje, qjc i$ a^ure<J/'
.'S report ?
L. Able. Not* opilie dog^tr.
BY YAREA-SIDE.


The Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and disinfects
in one act.
Fop Washing Horses and all Ani-
mals. Destroys Vermin.
A wonderful healer of euts and
sores and skin eruptions.
In the bath and for washing the
hair.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging carpets, ete. Removes
dirt, prevents disease.
In the sick room. Instantly des-
troys all germs.
USED BY ALL HOSPITALS
If not obtainable at your Chemist or Storekeeper, send for trial
pint bottle—l/3 Post Free to any address.
SYDNEY! BRISBANE: MELBOURNE:
Arthur Muston & Sons. Moylan & Chancellor. Mitchell & Bellair
1s
A Jewel is a Picture
and should be appropriately framed.
Our Managing Director has just returned from a
world’s tour, and in his travels he sought and
found the best Framings and Settings that the
Artists of the various countries 'have evolved.
We imported them, and are now showing the Very Last Word in all the dainty,
Settings that the best skill and taste of refined nations have approved.
As we nay no duty on Gems, and the Competition out here is so great, we
imported jewellery at only London prices.
refined Platinum
are offering all
Whole Pearl and Diamonds, set in Solid
Platinum, £4/10/-
pAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
NABOB BOOT PASTE:
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS «Sl WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney, [i
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER
SANDY : “So they’ve feenished th’ buildin' and
the mayor’s got his name up.”
P AT: “Sure he likes the look of his name;
but, bedad, he won’t be so plased to see it
on his own tombstone."
“J. B. Cow” : I do not know if the Most
Blasphemy-Creating Job competition recently in-
augurated in your columns by the Religious Editor
is still raging, but if so I would like to enter the
business, craft or profession of yarding camels. The
labors of Hercules are a trifle to it, and the task of
Sisyphus fades into nothingness by comparison. The
misshapen brutes which I endeavored to yard be-
longed to Murrin-Murrin (W.A.). I got them as far
as the wing, which consisted of a dog-leg fence run-
ning out about 800yds. from the gate. In fact,
with a little persuasion, I lured them to within
50 yards of the gate. There they stopped
and firmly demanded an explanation. I called
up my reserves, viz., two boys (one black
and one white and both fairly well mounted). I
also demanded assistance of the blacksmith and his
wife and a tribe of assorted curs. We all advanced
uproariously. The shuffling horrors simply sneered.
They then walked straight at us and through us,
and though earnestly entreated with loaded whips,
saplings, stones and language set off to the open
country. It took three of us five solid days of riding
with fresh horses every day to run them to a stand-
still. Being thrown severally and roped they were
dragged or towed to the enclosure, which is the
most unsastisfactory way of yarding beasts that I
know of.
“Machete”: I see that “Bromide” (B.
12/9/’l2) upholds the bike as against the horse for war
purposes, and denounces me as “a carpet bushman,”
or “a George-street backblocker,” for arguing to the
contrary. In point of fact, I am nothing of the
sort. I was born and bred on a Western Q. station.
I spent much of my time till I was 25 in the West,
and after that put in 24 years Cliow-championing in
South Africa, followed by three years of all-round
experience in Papua. But that hardly affects the
issue, which is a mere matter of common sense.
Does “Bromide” imagine that, if he had to get for
his skin, on a bike, through an upper Barcoo gidyea
scrub, or through the heavy sand of the Balonne
cypress pine and belar belts,, that he could elude
mounted men ? Even in the open, provided it was
tussocky country, he would be backing a loser. The
western biker rides roads or pads whenever he can.
It is possible for him to cross country in a fashion.
He doesn’t sprint over it, though. No one questions
“B.’s” claim that the bushman makes good fighting
material. But that is not to say he is of value
against a thoroughly trained man, and it is against
the most thoroughly trained and efficient of modern
I soldiers that the Australian will have to go up. If
they had only been moderately disciplined, the Boers
would have carried Ladysmith and Kimberley, and
have occupied Capetown and Durban within a month
of the commencement of the S.A. war. The guerilla
fighter, as a campaign winner, is not worth considera-
tion. Attrition invariably wears him out in the
end. It is in the Defence enactments; in the staff
colleges, and the rigorous enforcement of military
training that Australia’s fighting chance lies. Her
untrained bushmen will undoubtedly annoy the
enemy, as sandflies do. Like sandflies, they can be
smoked off, or otherwise provided against.
“Yarrrnn” : Last week, went to “an even-
ing” round near the Blowhole (N.5.W.),. and had a
great time. A funny man showed a trick. Taking a
safety match-box and four matches, he stuck two in
the end of the box, and then wedged one in between
them, standing like a horizontal bar. Then he asked
the company which of the up-
right matches would burn out
first if the cross one were
lighted, in the middle. The
company didn’t know, or
didn’t care to say. With the
fourth match he then set fire
to the match between the two
vertical ones; and, when it
had burnt quite through the
middle, the two lighted ends
flew across the room into an
old lady’s lap, burning a de-
cent-sized hole in a new silk
dress. The old party was
wild, and the funny fellow
looked silly. I was reminded
of a happening at Jembaicum-
bene (N.S.W.). Out on the
plain there, where once had
been a dense forest, a trunk
of an old turpentine had be-
come jammed between the
tops of two standing stringy-
barks. We boys used to climb
up and walk along the cross
piece. Then, one stormy after-
noon, lightning struck the tur-
pentine in the centre, setting
fire to it. The two lighted
ends jumped, and one end flew
through a shepherd’s hut,
200yds. away, impaling the
cat, two packs of cards, one
pannikin, one billycan and
other cooking utensils and
things too numerous to mention. The
other half was never either seen or heard
of. Quong Tart, who used to walk the
turpentine with us, was in the habit of
telling this very true yarn; and would
get very wild when nobody would believe
him. And at Moruya (N.S.W.) a limb
of a dead tree was once burst by light-
ning, and a gigantic splinter was hurled,
by the hurricane blowing', through the iron roof
and calico ceiling of a cottage. It impaled and
killed a boy in bed. Last time writer was there the
hole in the roof was patched with kerosene tins, and
it (the cottage) did duty as a post-office.
“Yarrum” : It is amusing to note how
some of these South Coast .(N.S.W.) State quarry-
men are helping the mean cocky to be a little
meaner, and to escape paying a decent wage. I
know a man who hires out his three children—a
girl aged 14 and two boys of 12 and 10 years re-
spectively-—to do all the milking for a neighboring
cowman at 3s. each per week. Mr. Cocky is thus
getting work done that he should have to pay £3
a week and tucker for. The cow is fast spreading
her queenly self all over Labor in the Illawarra dis-
trict. The children attend school, after milking,
and doze and sleep over their lessons most of the
time. I know. Truly the way some of these for-
tunate toilers stick to their more scattered, and,
consequently, less fortunate rural workers is mar-
vellous to behold !
WILGA JOE (shouting): “ Yes, I’m 72 ter-day. but I gotter good way ter go yet. The oh
feller was 103 when 'e died , an mother's 101 an’ still goin' strong.”
O’REGAN : “Howly snakes! It’s yerself that'll never be dying. 'They’ll 'ave ter ring-
bark ye , Joe.”
“Kola”: The Melbourne Argus proudly
affirmed, in a recent issue, that all the immigrants
are fine practical men. They may be fine, in a sense
—one I came across was so fine that, when he stood
sideways, you could hardly see him—but here are
some of my experiences. An immigrant strolled over
to his Australian neighbor, and asked him to come
and have a look at a sick hen. “She don’t seem to
be able to stand,” he added. The Australian went
over, and found that the hen was clocking, and of
course wouldn’t leave the nest. He patiently ex-
plained, and gave the immigrant a setting of prize
egg's. Later on, he heard that 10 chickens had Deen
hatched ; but, on going across to inspect, he found
the hen with only two. “Yes,” said the immigrant,
“there was 10 hatched all right, but I thought two
was as many as the hen could rear, so I killed-the
rest.” I drove out to another place with a man who
was interested in separators. We were delayed, and.
it was after 10 when we got home. The separator
man wanted to see the immigrant separating, and he
was annoyed to see all the cows in the paddock.
“I thought so,” he growled; “the cream’s halfway
to town now.” However, we drove up to the house
of one of the men—there were three of
them —and a frowsy person came to the
door yawning. “Come in,” he said, “and
have a cup of tea. I’m going to bring the cows
in now.” The same three men, after vainly endeav-
ing to drive a heifer into a particular bail, threw
and roped her, and dragged her to the bail. The ,
antics of the immigrants in our part of the world
furnish the farm-houses with half their winter en-
tertainment.
Dear Bulletin, — There probably isn’t
another creature extant —-mankind always excepted—
which has a more retentive memory or a greater
capacity : for love or hate than a camel. By the
slightest action, good or evil, one may make a friend
or an enemy of the beast for life. Go among camels
as a perfect stranger, and you will find yourself
regarded with curiosity. Also, you will be looked
upon with some suspicion, a certain quantity of dis-
trust, and not little superciliousness. Further, you
may observe a guarded expression conveying the
notion that you might not be a bad poor sort of
devil, after all. Right from the start you will be
given the benefit of the doubt. No open hostility
will be shown you; neither will the slightest over-
ture savoring of amity be made toward you. You
will just be put on your trial then and there, and
on your showing during the first five minutes of
acquaintance, so will the record be kept against
you for life. It is an embarrassing business being
introduced to camels. You feel you are the cynosure
of every eye—each a calm, critical, comprehensive
sort of eye—and you know the responsibility rests
with you, whether you are to be their friend or foe.
There is hardly any middle course. The first time I
went among camels I bore with me a feeling of
uncertainty. I didn’t know whether they’d eat me,
or merely wither me to death with superior glances.
I was greatly agitated and felt strongly called upc"
to do something. Quiescence offered no way put
So I took a firm hold of my immaculate reputa-
tion, together with my hope of a life hereafter with
one hand, and, with the other, I timidly stroked a
cow-camel’s ear. A sort of sigh, or gust of relief
immediately ran through the kneeling throng. /
wasn’t a bad sort of poor blighter, after all. So
spoke the voice of cameldorn.—Yours, etc., MaUjAßa-
poonie.
A HARD NUT TO CRACK.
BIllyt : “ Wot did yer get outer yer deal wid
Skinny?”
JIMMY : “A great deal o' respect for de swine’s
business ability.”
THE PERFECT IMMIGRANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There came to us an immigrant,
Maroney got him very cheap.
The new-chum seemed to be content
With seven bob a week and keep.
He said that he could shear a treat.
And fence a bit, and ride for mails,
Could kill a sheep, and dress the meat.
Could drive the engine, stack the wheat.
Or take a hand at splitting rails.
His name was Ben, his dialect
Was rather quaint. His gall was great.
We gathered be did not expect
To leave his little bed till eight.
Creamed coffee, toast and marmalade,
Dropped eggs, and chops he ordered for
His breakfast, cursed the chambermaid
By whom his blessed bed was laid,
And put his boots outside the door.
Next morn when called to milk, said he:
“Where are the lassoes kept, old lad?”
“ ’N’ what the Divil may that be?”
Maroney was no longer glad.
The new-chum seemed to be amused,
And started to explain just how
A lasso’s made, and how it’s used.
He said he’d have to be excused
If not allowed to throw the cow.
Ben stayed, with us till noon that day,
And when he drew a gun to shoot
A simple Chow out on his way,
Maroney helped him with a boot.
But ere he went did he disclose
An entertaining fact to me:
Of farming life all that he knows
He gleahed at living picture shows
At home in happy Battersea.
victoria.
SILAS SNELL.


Read, mark, learn and inwardly digest the Sep-
tember Scientific Australian. It contains matter of
vital interest to those who wish to keep posted.
Here are a few of the subjects treated: —The invad-
ing cinematograph; Railless transport is coming-;
“Humanising” a Government business; Cancer is in-
creasing in Australia ; and some very useful “Short
cuts.” Six pages devoted to Home, Health and
Sanitation are likewise included. Also a full com-
plement of instructive illustrations. 2s. 6d. per
annum. Phillips Ormonde & Co., publishers, 206
Flinders St., Melbourne.*
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL'S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
Feel like giving up, worried,, despondent, can’t eat.
Try Stearns’ Wine of Cod Inver Extract, increase
your appetite, restore your health, restore the lost
energy and be yourself.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Hunyadt
Janos 1
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler
lon arising, before breakfast, for i
CONSTIPATION
CAN'T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. (id. and 3s.*
■>
Foggitt, Jones*
r Pork Sausages
For breakfast on a cool morning, for
Siunday night’s tea, for picnics, for all
casions when a quickly prepared,
appetising dish is required, you'll find
them something special—something
out of the ordinary. Keep a tin or
two in the house for emergencies.
Your grocer sells them.
“Searchlight”: Lightning plays some low
comedy pranks at times. Met a chap once whose boot-
nails had been fused to his nickel-plated stirrup-irons
and yet he remained unhurt. His horse was killed
under him, and the lightning burned a black track
from the animal’s head all down the spinal cord.
Another electric disturbance was once frisking about
a plateau where the writer was stationed, and behav-
ing like the Wild Ram of the Mountains. A bunch
of lightning playfully butted into a cottage, taking
the verandah iron in its : course, cut through the
house, knocked a fowl-house out of the perpendicular,
and finished up with a grand display of red fire on
top of a stump some distance beyond. Two women
in the house were unaware of the happening, but v
clock on the mantelpiece was struck to a standstill.
During the same storm a stump in a paddock was
struck three times within thirty minutes. Now,
what sin had the unfortunate bit of timber com-
mitted that Providence should go for it in that
whole-souled fashion ?
“Reka”: The oft-circulated report that
“Pelorus Jack” has become a dead marine is again
agitating' those that go down to the sea. in ships in
the vicinity of the French Pass (Maorila-nd). He
has not been seen for the past few weeks, and
sailormen are becoming anxious: Some months ago,
a dead white fish, about Jack’s size and something
of his build, was found stranded near Cook Strait.
He wore the same sort of clothes as Jack, but there
was no money in the pockets, so a suspicion arose
that the fish had been drinking, and a robbery had
been done. At the same time there were no marks
of violence on the remains, and no One had heard
the sound of a scuffle on the steps of the sea shore,
or a heavy splash, or the sound of retreating fins.
The deceased, so far as was known, was unmarried,
at least, his widow didn’t claim him. lie was just
about to be buried with great honor at the cost of
the parish, when Pelorous Jack returned from his
visit to the country. It was a case of mistaken
identity, and the bogus dead fish became of no ac-
count, and was thrown over a fence. The returned
Jack escorted his ships with renewed enthusiasm.
He has been protected by special Act for many
years ; ever since an idiotic Englishman, who deemed
himself a sport, shot at him and aroused a tumult
of wrath throughout the country. All seamen have
a superstitious reverence for Jack, and accept his
escort as a mark of favor and a good omen.
Should he depart all Maoriland will mourn his
departure, the tourist will no longer squander the
fare across Cook Strait for the chance of a glimpse
of one of the world’s curiosities, and piscatologists
will tear their hair over the unsolved mystery of his
species. Jack, by the way, is not the only fish
known to fame abroad. In the very early days a
huge tame shark, quite a popular favorite, was a
celebrated character in Port Nicholson, and was
widely known as “New Zealand Billy.” “This
monster,” ends an old chronicle quaintly, “was at
last killed by the enraged father of a child he had
eaten.”
A STATEMENT OF FACT.
CONSTABLE: “ ’As yer frind been drinking?”
SUPPORTER: “'As ' e been (hie) drinkin'!
Why, 'e’s damn near drowned!”
“Blue E.”: Be “Searchlight” and his
nomination of the tallewong, or black magpie, as
champion curse of the 69 (B. 15/8’I2). I consider
that the whole nine-and-sixty are contained in one
feathered carcase —that of the starling. I was for
years manager of a Victorian orchard, and had many
demonstrations of the awful damage the English im-
portation and his push could do in a few minutes.
Of cherries they would only leave the stones on the
trees, and they could hollow out prime pears until
they looked like misshapen Chinese lanterns. T can't
describe the starling’s nastiest habits here; bu: you
can take it from me that he is the hog of the air.
The vulture and the kite, those old-established corpse-
eaters, are dukes compared to him.
METAMORPHOSIS.
ANCIENT : “Ho, yes, I knew these yere
parts well. Why, I knowed that
pub there when it was houly a
creek."
“Werrimee”: Bill Jones, professional ox-
eonductor, was so politically obsessed that he had
named all his team after leading members of Parlia-
ment. The near-side
bullocks were the
Government, and the
off-siders represented
the Opposition. When
there was a change in
the House he changed
the sides of his team,
and consequently had
a lot of trouble with
it for a week or two.
The new Premier and
the new Ministers took
a lot of breaking-in to
office. When he had
a good side, including
several bearing the
names of members
whose politics pleased
him, his fondest hope
was to see those mem-
bers returned at every
election. Sometimes
he took a dislike to a
politician because a
bullock bearing his
name was intractable
or a loafer, or pe r-
liaps the animal would
be named after a
Member of Parliament
who had incurred his
displeasure. In either
case the unfortunate
brute would get more
than his share of whip
and abuse, and the
driver “would see him
• pole-axed before ever
he- would get a vote
from him again.”
When the member he
represented was de-
feated, the driver
would wave his hat
joyfully and cry:
“Hooray! you’ve got
kicked out, you .wast-
er 1 Now you can go
to the beef cask.” And 10 to one the ex-M.P. would
be fattened up and killed.
“N. or M.” : The seeds of many Austra-
lian plants, which germinate the better for being
soaked in boiling water before planting, appear to
have been specially provided with thick overcoats to
enable them to put up a fight against glacial epochs,
the Day of Judgment or any old thing that may
happen along. I have seen healthy clematis raised
from seed 20 years old, and a bush fire always helps
wattle seed to sprout. The most striking instance I
have known of the long-enduring quality of the latter
was in the case where a ruined sixty-year-old hut
had been pulled down and the remains scattered
over the adjacent landscape. No wattles had been
growing in the vicinity for many years, but a fine
crop immediately sprang up from the seeds which
had been long dormant in the mud plaster
of the walls. The growth of rushes where none
have been known before, along the banks of artesian
water courses is more likely to be due to the agency
of birds than to the fact that the seeds have been in
the ground since a time prior to the formation of
the present inside arrangements of the continent.
“F.A.T.”: I want to mention crocodiles, if
“Mallarapoonie” will excuse my being on the earth.
He states (B. 25/7/T2) that the croc, never touches
feathered game. He does. A party of us were out
shooting some time ago, at Lake Chappaginia, about
15 miles from Cape York, and left a dead scrub
turkey, and a mallee hen, likewise gone to Heaven,
on the bank, some distance above the lagoon. On
our returning to pick up the birds, we found them
missing, and investigation showed a crocodile’s
tracks leading to and from the spot. To say that a
fresh-water croc, does not measure more than 7ft. is
to handle truth in a light-hearted and altogether too
careless fashion. In the North-West, crocodiles of
various sizes, up to 15 or 17 feet, travel over miles
of scrubby country to fresh-water lagoons, where
they live on pigs, dingoes, or any old thing that
happens along to quench the dryness of its interior.
One day I noticed a Binghi on the banks, who imi-
tated the howl of a dingo to perfection. His
black female consort stood by with a gun, ready to
get a shot at the crocodile, when it became hungry
enough, or sufficiently interested in the commotion,
to put in an appearance. According to the Bing’s
statement, and allowing for his vague idea of figures,
he had often captured crocs. 12ft. in length in the
vicinity of fresh water. I know from personal ex-
perience that it is dangerous to cross some of the
swamps, miles away from salt water, for fear of fall-
ing over crocodiles, some of which are as large as a
piece of wood, and others almost the size of a log.
It is also a most foolish business to remark in print
that small crocs, do not live in the sea. It is
a common sight to see them at Newcastle Bay, a few
miles from the most northern point of Australia, and
at Thursday Island Bill Brown saw thousands one
night, from a foot upwards, crawling along the
surface of Torres Strait.
SAW A BETTER TURN.
HORATIO (starring with touring company) :
“Ha, then, you have not yet seen me tread
the boards?”
LOCAL YOUTH: “No, but I went to see a bloke
here last week that was real good on walk-
ing the tight-rope. ”
EASY ON THE BEDDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His name was Herb, he was a yob,
A bush-bred youth of twenty-eight.
He hung on to his “stiddy job”
With Goatee Winge at Pennyweight.
Da.v laborer they called the wight,
But Jimmy also worked at night.
“Keep goin’, lad,” old Goatee said,
And Jimmy’s iiours were long and wide.
He got in at one side the bed,
And straight got out the other side;
For ever Goatee firmly stressed
His kindly rule, “A good night’s rest.”
“Oh, yes,” said Herb, “blokes come ’n’ go,
But I hang on all right somehow.
A chap still holds his own, you know.
I’ve been with good ole Goatee now
So many years I ’most forget,
And ain’t wore out me blankets yet.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
Wanted: A Roomy Allotment.
A Heturned Traveller contributes this: —
Just after Japan had successfully swallowed Korea
and bagged Manchuria’s southern end the United
States Government approached Marquis Komura, then
Jap Minister for Foreign Affairs, with a proposal for
a friendly limitation of the flow of Japanese emi-
gants to 'the Pacific coast The Marquis was sympa-
thetic, and announced to both Japan and the U.S.A.
that there was now no need for Japanese emigrants,
who were crowded out of old Nippon by the internal
pressure of numbers, to cross the Pacific. There was
unlimited room for them in the newly-acquired ter-
ritories on the Asiatic mainland. So the arrange-
ment was made. Japanese emigration Was diverted
to Korea and Southern Manchuria, where it could be
of service to the great Imperial idea and help to
build up a bulwark against the Slav, who, everybody
knew, would one day come again. Now Japan finds
that Korea and Manchuria are not the ideal spots
they were thought to be. When the Jap emigrant
went to Western U.S.A. he could always get a living
because he could take a lower wage than the general
population j so it happened that most of the Jap
emigrants to the Pacific Slope were of the laboring
c l ass —the material of which the rank-and-file of the
army are made, and the sort of men \vhich should
be useful in building up the new Nippon on the
mainland of Asia. But bitter experience has proved
that there is no room in Manchuria or Korea for
that sort of Jap. Komura’s idea was to settle these
territories with farmers who would be part peasant
proprietors and part tenants of estates held by large
Japanese companies. Immediately Jap possession ut
the peninsula was established a process of changing
the land from the possession of Korean into that ot
Japanese owners was commenced. Someone high in
office in Nippon had evidently read about how Wil-
liam of Normandy worked the same trick in Eng-
land, and he improved on it, for in about six years
practically the whole of the land of Korea parsed
into possession of people with Japanese names. That
is probably a record. But the trouble was that there
was no room for the Jap-laborer, that good fighting
man He could not compete with the dispossessed
Korean owner, who had to take to healthy toil for
the means to live. And, somehow, the Jap did not
seem to take kindly to the farming life. He became
a rack-renter and a sweater, and many of him re-
turned to Japan and lived on what was extorted by
an agent from the wretched Korean tenants. The
Jap land-owner did not care overmuch for tenants of
his own race either—they could not be squeezed and
sweated to the same extent as could the conquered
and juggled Korean, who usually yielded about 40
per cent, return on invested capital. Of course, all
Government servants are Japanese, and most of the
trade is in the hands of the dominant race. the
Jap exploiter remains in Korea, but the Japanese
working man has departed. There is no room tor
him. When he went to Korea to toil he struck a
cheaper worker than himself. In Southern Man-
churia the situation is even worse. As Manchuria n
still nominallv Chinese property, and there is still the
possibility of a fight, the transfer process could not be
worked, and at farming the Japanese is not in the
same paddock as the steady-going Chinaman. So
the Jap did not go on the Manchurian land. Neither
is the Jap coolie able to compete with the Chinese.
In Korea, all the bookkeeping, etc., is done by
Japanese clerks, but not so in Manchuria, except m
Japanese houses. The Chinaman is a better man in
every respect, a harder worker, more honest, more
reliable, and more capable. At trade the Japanese
merchant and trader find themselves overshadowed
by the Chinaman, who seems to be a better business
man and to be able to undersell his island relative
all the time. The result is that of the 43,000 Japan-
ese in Manchuria, no less than 3000 are workers on
and about the raUway, and the bulk of the others
seem to live on them and on the Japanese army of
occupation. The Japs in Manchuria live by taking
in each other’s washing, except when a Jap blacklegs
and sends his laundry to the cheaper Chinese wash-
emporium, so to speak; and there is no empire-ex-
pansion business about it. Manchuria and Korea are
failures as outlets for the alleged teeming millions of
Nippon, who are said to be crowding one another
into the water. Other outlets have been sought for.
A Japanese paper announced recently that Japan
would take on the r6le of Protector of sundry Central
and Southern American republics against the tyranny
and arrogance of the United States, in return for
concessions of land to Japanese settlers; but when a
start was made at Magdalena Bav, in Mexico, the
tyrannical United States put both its American hoofs
on the idea while it was young. So the problem of
finding an outlet for the surplus Jap population re-
mains' unsolved. What is wanted is a large, healthy,
thinly-peopled land, with a good climate, a decent
rainfall, and far enough away from home to make
return at the first disappointment too difficult to be
lightly undertaken. Korea and Manchuria have been
tried and proved unsuitable. The islands scattered
about the Pacific are not large enough. South and
Central America are sealed up, to be opened only by
a long and desperate struggle. But there is one
other place that fills the bill to a nicety. In fact, it
seems to have been made expressly to fill the bill.
And that Andrew Fisher has gone Cold about build-
ing the direct railway by which it could be made
much less inviting has no doubt been carefully noted
for future reference in the interested quarter. It is
time Australia did something to make Andrew
Fisher realise that it regards the matter as serious.
— ♦
“Silas Snell”: Bill and .Tim, harvest
hands and farm laborers, are being brought into
unions, and literally dragged into a way of better-
ing their condition, and they needed dragging.
William and James are in some sense responsible for
the rapacity of the Boss Cocky in submitting for so
long to whatever conditions and exactions Hayseed
cared to impose. I was staying at Josiah Kidd’s
for a fortnight, and early in the proceedings began
to take notice of Bill. Bill was a long, gawky,
shambling, red-headed, freckled youth of 22, with a
dromedary nose and disproportionate feet. Bill was
always doing. Tf I got up early T found Bill hard
at it; if I went to bed late, I left Bill among the
shattered harness, or skinning a vast tub of spuds
for the early breakfast. Possibly Bill went to bed,
and there may have been moments when he had no-
thing to do ; but if so these things escaped my ob-
servation. The dull placidity of Bill in pursuit of
his daily round of ignoble tasks irritated me. I
wanted to kick him, and might have done so had
he not been seven sizes too large. Eventually I
spoke to him about his shameful conduct. “WK
don’t you get out of this?” I said. Bill thought it
over. “Wha’ ’s the go-o-o-od?” he said. “Ole Jos,
lie ain’t so ba-a-a-d, yeh lcno-o-w. He gi’s me a few
bob an’ me keep fer jist hangin’ ro-o-ond, ’n’ he’s
promised first reg’lar job that turns up he’ll put me
o-o-on.” I often wonder if Bill got his “reg'lar
job.”


This conclusion is arrived at after contem-
plating the mighty strength of our standing army
Our strong financial position.
Our gorgeous maritime splendor.
The non-existence of
hungry enemies of any
description.
The possession of a
Peace Society to curb
our lust for blood,
thereby preventing us
from plunging into
needless quarrels
And our extraordinary
railway facilities.
Col. Foster is convinced that the above is the
safest and most dignified course tb pursue in the
event of war
THE FOOL AND HIS PARADISE.
Colonel Foster tells us that we are immune from invasion, as such an undertaking would require 25,000 well-trained
fighting men plus 2000 non-combatants.


When other remedies fail to cure that
here’s the cure. Stearns’ Headache Cure,
gone in a few minutes.*
headache,
headache
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
durability.
THE ROYAL ROAD
TO HEALTH
IS FOUND BY
CLEMENTS
TONIC
The Rev. J. llosking, D.D., Minis-
ter of the Congregational Mission
Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne, writes: —
“I suffered from Nervous Pros-
tration , Insomnia and Nervous
Headaches. One bottle of
Clements Tonic put me right , and
teas worth its weight in gold!”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS g STORES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
W. J. Russell, who is to oppose Bruce
femith tor Parkes at next general election,
ws born on the Maeleay River 33 years ago.
He stayed there for 14 years, won a bursary
and attended Sydney Grammar School for
three years, and was then offered the glitter-
ing stipend of 2s. 6d. per week to sit on a
high stool. He declined coldly, and appren-
ticed himself to the fragrant and better-paid
job ot plumbing, from which he rose, ulti-
mately. to the dizzy height of president of
the union of Finders-of-leaks-in-pipes. Rus-
sell has been chairman of the Parkes Federal
1..L.C. since that body started active opera-
tions, and at the. recent Referendum cam-
paign he worked like five men and a boy to
secure a “Yes” vote. If he can work like
nine men and five boys, he may bump the
black-labor Spruce Myth person hard enough
to hurt.
ADMIRAL KING-HALL.
A corpse—not that of George Reid—found
the other day in the River Lea (England),
had two words tattooed on the arm, “Yes”
and “No.” Presumably he was a person of
undecided mind, and the << Yes ,J meant that
he was going to drown himself, and the “No”
meant that he wasn’t, and while he was hesi-
tating on the shore he fell in.
“Snaffle” writes briefly of many things:
The frontispiece of a new book, ’’Sport and Pas-
time in Australia,” by Gordon Inglis, is a portrait
ot Carbine, a striking likeness to the prints of
Eclipse Will the Horse become extinct? Pro-
bably he will last as long as the Jew. Inglis savs
the prettiest racecourse is Elwick, in Tasmania, with
the wide Derwent River just below, the hills beyond
and the massive slopes of Mount Wellington in the
background. In the hunting department there are
quotations from the racy pen of Cervus Elaphus,
Chief Justice s father. George Watsonf the
Nimrod and Prince of Starters, was a younger bro-
ther of Bob Watson, Master of the Carlow Fox-
hounds, Ireland. George came to Melbourne in 1852
bringing a few couple of hounds. First pack to
chase kangaroo Purchases were afterwards made
from the Duke of Buccleuch’s, Duke of Grafton’s, and
the Bel voir pack. The Chirnsides, Werribee Park
imported some red deer in 1857. They bred largely.’
A stag and two hinds were presented by Lord Derby
from the Knowsley herd. y ’
OTHER PEOPLE'S POLITICS.
T he first £5,000,000 of the Chinese loan has been
underwritten in London within two hours.
Owing to the London loan the six Powers are ex-
pected to demand the settlement of the Boxer in-
ing to £9 .500.000.
The toll-takers.
The hired Office Anarchist writes:—
dailies—with the exception of Sydney Sun,
which has invested in a cable service of its own—fell
m with a shrieking- crash last week, over a message
relating to Kaiser Wilhelm of Germany. The story
was a futile thing at best—one of those palpably
faked yarns that every modern monarch’s press-ao-ent
must reel off occasionally for press purposes or lose
his job. It dealt with the Kaiser’s splendid forbear-
ance when an anonymous pilot, or engineer, or stoker
Xn S et ?h ng K r £ 1U ? ed * t lt. endanger the saf ety of the
ship at the behest of the Imperial passenger The
S months oh, faCt Tb that l h , e foo V old lie was aboSt
ciKi u-° i x rhe cabl e-sender who was respon-
sible for this latest sample of white-whiskered un-
wP?o C nT" CSS ’ 1S Presumably the same eccentric who
rHp| h « recently with the news that the Pope had
d ed. Such a man is capable of sending at vast
expense the news of the death of & or the
anything. Carthage - In fact ’ he “Me f
An Apple Islander” writes:—
I wouldn’t absolutely swear that John Henry is
dignified name, but the man who bore it in Tas-
mania called for a heap of consideration He
agSnst r °t I he t «hn S m tlands ’ - lar north of Sco «and, up
against the shoulder or rim of the Midnight <Si,n
where you breathe into the ear of the Polar bear’
liftv years ago he settled m the rich north-west of
Tasmania, and amassed much siller. He was in Par
lament for a while, and for the best plrt of two
years John Henry was Treasurer under Premier
Henry Dobson. But Henry (John) wanted to be an
A| r em-v'. EOlVent ’ "“J-borrowing Treasurer, and Dobson
shftPremier k ' nd ,° f eas y-ff°ing, inake-
thflTsrwSi, S I 0 ™ Henry ’ bor n m Shetland, in
the bar -North, parted in sorrow from Henry Dobson
born in Hobart, in the Far South, and there was no
more honest finance in Tasmania. Henry went back
n^il 1S + beloVed no . rth - west coast, and died' there lately
aged two years less than four-score. He was one of
ConSn S pT Sent i ati 7 a - the u Jbimatc Federal
convention. Pioneer store-keeping runs in the family
Honest John’s brother, F. O. Henry, was the and
w y Jm eral P ro 7. ider on the Zeehan and Lyell mTn
lng fields, and his shingle still waves aggressively
when the wind is high, at Strahan, Macquar!! Harbor
?s aTleged U to th L SPOt ?he man-eater’,
is alleged to have axed his third victim in
days of Marcus Dawes and Rufus Clarke, Sarah Pur
foy, John Price, Maurice Frere, Rev North the
divme Sylvia and the rest of the natural lifers’ who
mostly died unnatural deaths.
way*— X ” Writes in a con densed sort of
SATS'S
Sr pmstfUis.
y I’lirJe n q ' a / me da t Lancefield from 1856. Gave 900
Arcter T L wi 'e- Mormon was second to
wnicn tney started their nefarious o-amo mT
]“ n S e o?£„3 le - “ «”»»£ with K
■r’mit „ssr e „- r “rno P s ed ~ht o Sir
What one might, in the language of poetic
imagery, term the wedding of December and
New Year’s Day occurred at Rockhampton
(Q.) recently, when a gentleman of 67 was
wedded to a lady of 79. The thing was a
manage de convenance pure and simple.
Both bridegroom and bride are old-age pen-
sioners, and they reckoned they could live
more cheaply under one roof than separately.
The marriage saves the price of a roof.
“Melb.”: The triangular duel between
Weedon, Farthing and Opitz, in the East
Melbourne State election, roused unusual ex-
citement, particularly through Farthing hav-
ing been unseated on Weedon’s petition. All
three are connected with the hotel trade.
Weedon’s lately deceased father owned and
kept a prosperous Carlton' pub. Farthing
has kept the Austral, in Bourke-street. Opitz
keeps the Golden Fleece, in Russell-street.
Farthing is ex-president of the Licensed
Victuallers’ Association, and Opitz is ex-
secretary. Opitz was a variety show mana-
ger froni 1890 to 1902, taking vaudeville
companies to India, and associated with
Tommy Hudson. Farthing was long a State
schoolmaster, and enthusiastic cricketer and
footballer. He is decidedly the most intel-
lectual of the Beer party. Weedon used to be
a contractor, and was Mayor of Melbourne
from 1905 to 1908.
Port Augusta (S.A.) is now a place with
a future the size of a whale’s family, for
there the railway from Perth eastward and
the one from Port Darwin southward will
meet. But it had to wait a long time for
its crown. When the R.C. Diocese of Port
Augusta was created, the rush for the mitre,
on the part of the clerics, was so mild as to
be indiscernible with telescopes. For ex-
ample, Dr. Kelly, now parish priest of North
litzroy, on being menaced with the distinc-
tion, remarked acidly that he didn’t want to
end his days in Siberia. Ultimately, the
priests of those regions (a mere mitreful, so
to speak) met and selected Father John
-Norton no relation of the journalist, by
the way, but a Victorian boy, educated at
St. 1 at. s, Melbourne, by the Jesuits. And
now. The first sod of the Transcontinental
Railway has been turned at Port Augusta,
and old Siberia will lose its name and fame.
When John Norton wants a coadjutor, let
him send to North Fitzroy, and he may find
one there—a disappointed old man who skied
his birthright for a mess of pottage.
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY
DEVELOPMENT.
Sixty deer are shortly to be taken to Coburg Pen-
insula, m the Northern Territory; 50 of these have
been offered to the Department of External Affairs
by a lady resident at Armidale, and the Melbourne
Zoological Gardens will supply the remainder. The
consignment will leave for the Territory about Oc-
tober 1. The deer will probably be in charge of Mr.
Le Souef, curator of the Melbourne Zoological Gar-
dens, whose services have been asked ior.—Staqnerinn
news item. J
A memo, from the Barrier:—
Went to his last shift, at Broken Hill, Thomas G.
Sweet, manager of the B. H. South Extended. He
was born at Cornwall (Eng.) 56 years ago, and was
connected with mining almost from infancy. Got
a very early start in the mines of Cornwall (they get
m as mere babies there), but moved across B fo
Mexico and South America, and afterwards to Spain
Then he _ went to the West Coast of Africa, from
which, with two companions, he made inland. Three
went m and one came back. Left there (it was a
good place to leave) and worked in Transvaal mines
till he was appointed to Westralia. In 1895 he went
across to Broken Hill, where he was put in charge of
the Australian B. H. Consols, just before the finding
oi the slug of native silver which made the mine
famous. When the Consols closed down and took
over the new B. H. South Extended, he was ap-
pointed manager. After that his record was one of
hard digging and blasting and shovelling.
“Looking Backward” writes :
la w ™? etin S °f the Victorian Historical
Society, Dr. Watkm, who, for a pioneer, is unusuallv
accurate, mentioned the visit to Australia, in 1851 of
the old Marquis of Salisbury (as he was afterwards),
there are many places about Bendigo which are
pointed out as localities where Salisbury (as he was
afterwards) pegged out a claim, but they are all
apocryphal He pegged out no claim at all He
i l ' sfc . roughed it a bit, because he thought it was a
thiV lark T ha X ITI ,? plenty of m oney in his pocket
tlm e. In Melbourne he lived for a fortnight
with Governor Latrobe, and then went to the Mount
and ® endl 'go diggings, where he cooked his
littlctttnf washed. Ms own duds, and a very
little bit of gold. There is—or was a few years aon .
H'llQ Ca A? er m >ar< \ three - r oomed bungalow at White
Hills (Bendigo), where he lived in ’52. On his way
from Castlemaine to Bendigo, in ’5l he and bis
mate met two parsons, and asked to be put on the
, track ; The parsons galloped off in terror. In
lenf e nf ayS ’iA 0 ask the J oad to any place was the equiva-
nowadays for a match at 1 a.m. in
riagstaff Gardens. On arriving at Bendigo Salis-
bury (afterwards) put up at the house of a swell
and met the parsons at dinner. They were much
mortified to learn that they had mistaken one of the
Lord s anointed for a bushranger.
A SURVIVOR.
Speaking at the Million Club luncheon yesterday
Mr. Trefle declared that a timber famine was closer
than was generally realised. “We should protect our
magnificent forests before it is too late," he said “by
re-afforestation.”
The last lone emetyp!—saved for seed.
Archdeacon Nash, of Victoria, has met
with practically everything except the public
subscription, and that will probably come.
He was recruiting with his family at'Austin-
mer, on the N.S.W. South Coast, and one
night, as he sat with his wife on the bal-
cony, a terrified Mary Anne rushed at them
with her mouth open and the news that the
wooden calamity was in flames. The chil-
dren were thrown out; Mary Anne was
thrown out; and Mr. and Mrs. Archdeacon
threw themselves out. Even the archh
diaconal coat was burned to the ground. The
tinpot town of Austinmer—population one
dog—has been thrilled to its foundations, and
has ever since lifted its beer with a totter-
ing hand.
Died quietly in his sleep, at an Adelaide
hotel, Charles Wallace, journalist, aged
somewhere about 40. He had been on the
Numurkah (Vic.) Standard and the Port
Augusta (S.A.) Dispatch, but had latterly
been working up newspapers on Kangaroo
Island and the lonely but progressive stretch
of country which S.A. calls its “west coast.”
INWARD MATIERS.
High Commissioner Reid, while in Canada, is the
guest of the Minister for Internal Affairs.— Cable.
Guess the internal affairs of George caused the
Minister considerable anxiety.
THE UBIQUITY OF BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. R. Ditterich, of Wesley Church,
Melbourne, who is bidding for the position of
Grand Master of the Associated Wowsers, in the
course of a Sunday sermon fiercely attacked Farth-
ing, the East Melb. candidate, because he was pro-
fessionally associated with beer. Ditterich shed his
benediction on little Weedon. Farthing, in response,
pointed out that he was a publican, the Labor can-
didate, Opitz, was another, and Weedon was born in
a pub, bred in a pub, and was now one of the biggest
shareholders in a local brewery.
The churchman loathes the boose, and he
Still struggles to accentuate
This terrible antipathy
Between the pewter and the plate.
Ilis fervid condemnation rolls
On men who sell the drinks that cheer ;
With equal fervor he extols
Those seeming strict and sober souls
Who are not barracking for beer.
Alas, alack, it’s very rough,
r I he man the parsons so acclaim
For touching not the cursed stuff
Has drink connections just the same.
He won’t announce it from a tub,
But beer is in his family;
He’s second cousin to a pub, '
Or father to a whisky club,
Or nephew to a brewery!
The shameful feature of our day y"°
By Ditterich is expounded here.
The churches, trying as they may,
Cannot divorce themselves from beer.
They scorn one man with holy pride
To give his foe approval fat,
And shout his virtues far and wide,
Then find they’ve cast the pint aside,
But only to embrace the vat.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
THE CALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rev. Percy Blanky Hurrah, who is at present
stationed at St. Peter’s, Mud Flat, has received a
call to St. Paul’s, Golden Square.
—Frequent news item.
We labor in the Vineyard for
The glory of the Lord ;
A meek, self-sacrificing corps,
And know that when the Fight is o’er
We'll gain our Great Reward.
With Ancient Nick we scrap each day,
»And strive to vanquish Sin.
But do not seek for place or pay ;
They lie, those godless ones, who say
That we are after “tin.”
Each Shepherd labors hard to fill
St.. Peter's or St. Paul’s;
For each one loves his flock; nor will
He dream of leaving them—until
The gentle oof-Jbird calls!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


r
fas
: ssg&
S2&S
P
.
CHS
O
rp • \
: '*' -'ll ''-*.. Js
111
w
I B|
l-y&T
1
I
\ ,K
«
1
I
H
if
m
M
m
m
sc
;• v
G:.
I
#1
I
J'
«T/
*
Ha
n
li*
i
Ml
1
“THE WIN !
5)
-pO win the race the horse must be fit, in the race of Life the man must be well dressed.
1 Our Austral Suits are winning all the way. Their quality, cut and finish are unequalled.
Patterns and Self- Measurement Forms on application.
Prices £3 3s. to £5 15s.
GOWING BROS.,
486,488 & 490 George Street; and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
ALL ORDERS CARRIAGE PAID.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
GAS PL A N TS . MINE VENTILATING FANS AIR COMPReIIoRS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS."
32 & 34 Clarence Street. SYDNEY
Information apply-
If
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd,
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.
465 Collins St.f Melbourne*
55 York St„ Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The City Electric Light Co. (Bris-
bane) :
Deficit (“Pur-
chase Account,
£35,258,” not
Ord. Pref. Total regarded as
Profits. Div. Div. Div. an Asset),
•fnly, 1908.. 6 p.c. 6 p.e. £2097 £19,652
Jan., 1909..£7,975 8J „ 6 „ 3011 14,658
July, 1909.. 7,848 9,, 6,, 3218 10,058
Jan., 1910.. 9,157 101 „ 6 „ 3909 4,810
July, 1910.. 8,600 12 ~ 6 ~ 4549 759
Reserves.
Jan., 1911.. 10,537 12* „ 6 „ 4998 4,780
July, 1911.. 10,284 12j„ 6„ 5222 9,842
Deficit.
Reserves disappear (£18,747) .. 8,905
Jan., 1912.. 8,364 10 p.c. 6 p.c. 5740 6,281
July, 1912.. 10,818 12£ „ 6 „ 7329 2,792
This company keeps its accounts in a complicated
fashion, which is somewhat irritating. Thus it has
five reserves of one sort or another, also a profit and
loss balance. Four of the reserves are fed by the
open and formal transfer of amounts from profit and
loss, while the renewal and replacement fund just
grows. In order to make the accounts appear square the
amount of this mysterious growing is included in the
profits as shown above, and any amount by which it
may happen to shrivel is deducted. The co. has a paper
or goodwill item of £35,257 10s. lid., representing,
apparently, the amount which it paid to the Brisbane
Electric Supply Co. when it bought out that original
institution. This is an item which is represented
by no visible assets, and when the co.’s franchise
expires, in the year 1940, it will not be allowed for ;
so £lOOO a year ( £6OOO up to date) is set aside
to extinguish it. After the cumbersome manner of
the corporation, this £6OOO appears on one side of
the accounts and £35,257 10s. lid. on the other.
An enterprise which had a better idea of the bless-
ings and advantages of tidiness would vote £1257
10s. lid. one year towards the extinction of its
paper security, and thus take off the ragged fringe of
shillings and pence. Also, it would abolish the cumber-
some “Franchise and Purchase Sinking Fund Account,”
and simply wipe so much every year off the nominal
value of “Purchase Account.” Or else it would, as
soon as the miscellaneous reserves are sufficient, wipe
out the whole paper item and start afresh. Again,
it would look more orderly not to have three ac-
counts —two credits and an overdraft—at the E.S.
and A. Bank. And the Dividend Equalisation item
ought to be abolished. This sort of item ought
always to be abolished. When a company in any one
period pays a larger dividend than it has earned, and
draws on its reserves to do it, it doesn’t matter much
whether the reserve it draws upon is called “Divi-
dend Equalisation” or anything else.
The position has improved considerably within the
last 12 months. The business is growing- in a steadv
fashion; the liquid assets remain about the same';
and the overdraft has been reduced within a year
from nearly £6OOO to less than £3OO. The profits
are the largest to date. Unless Brisbane proves
an unexpected failure, the shareholders should find
themselves, when their lease expires, on as good a
wicket as the shareholders of the Melbourne Tramway
Co. The reserves ( £32,466) are still, of course,
purely nominal, because they haven’t quite overtaken
the paper or goodwill item of £35,257 10s. lid.,
but in another half-year there should be some genuine
reserves, and after that a period of steady accumu-
lation should set in.
* * * *
The City of Sydney is in the market
hunting for a loan of £1,000,000. It wanted
£1,500,000, but had to reduce its demands, owing
to the hunger in the money shop, and even then
it had to go to England for half the money. And
it is reckoned that, including interest and discount,
the cost will not be much less than 5 p.c. p.a. The
reason for the difficulty in raising the wind is obvious
enough. Owing to the combination of high wages
and low tariff, so many cheap-labor goods are coming
m that a fearsome heap of money has to go
out to pay for them. And as a result there was
£10,100,000 less cash in the Australian banks at
June 30, 1912, than at June 30, 1911. The lia-
bilities of the banks to the public increased during
the year by £61,801. Their advances—amounts lent
out to help embarrassed customers along, and avert
the slump, and possibly avert the crash —increased
by £13,438,529, which was something heroic. Their
liquid securities diminished by £1,467,299 —that is
to say, they have been turning securities into cash.
And yet, as already mentioned, their suoplv of cash
has diminished by over £10,100,000. All this money
has gone to pay for cheap-labor imports. At a time
of good seasons, good crops, and splendid prices, Aus-
tralia is steering direct for a great smash, simplv
through its neglect to keep the tariff in some sort
of fair relationship with the difference between Aus-
tralian and English wages. So, naturally, the City of
Sydney has got to pay a disastrous price for its
loan. Money is scarce, because so much of it has
gone away to pay for sweaters’ goods, imported
under the anti-sweating Labor Government to pre-
vent the local Labor elector getting a job; and when
money is scarce it has to be paid for in proportion
to its scarcity. The Labor elector, who has lost his
l°b through the influx of sweaters’ goods, carries his
share of the extra interest bill as a matter of course.
. The position of the City of Sydney is interesting
m a way. That shambling, untidy settlement, with
its narrow streets and hopeless alleys, is being gradu-
ally reconstructed. The unimproved capital value of the
city is about £20,000,000. At the cost of £20,000,000,
or 100 p.c. on the ground value, the place may be
made moderately respectable, though it may 'cost
more than that to make it really modern and up to
date. It would be a vast amount cheaper to con-
struct, at places like Port Stephens and Jervis Bay
and Twofold Bay, new State-owned cities which
would be laid out on the best-known principles, and
would require no immensely expensive re-construc-
tion, and would be up to date from their very incep-
tion. This has long been a matter of urgency, but
now that the money required for the re-construction
of the private-landlord-owned city of Sydney is be-
coming so hard to get, and the cost of it is becoming
so heavy, the matter grows still more urgent. The
bill for congestion is becoming more than the com-
munity can stagger under.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. op Tasmania (Hobart):—
Dividendsand Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. selves serves
1903 .. £1473 8 p.c. =£B4o £713 - ' £5422
1904 .. 1361 8„ „ 840 - £521 5,943
1905 .. 1535 8 „ „ 840 695 6 638
1906 .. 1371 S„ „ 840 _ 531 7169
1907 .. 1519 8 „ „ 840 _ 679 7 848
1908 .. 1376 8 ~ ~ 840 536 8'384
1909 .. 1701 8 ~ ~ 840 861 9 245
1910 .. 2395 9„ „ 956 _ 1439 10,684
1911.. 2053 10 ~,,1121 032 l] 616
1912 .. 1308 10 ~ ~ 1099 209 11,825
Tasmania taxes the surplus profits as well as the
dividends, and as the profits move up and down a 10
p.c. div. and tax may be smaller one year than
another. The above is a very poor showing
—the profit figures are the lowest on the
table, and that dates back to 1903. Also,
after paying the 10 p.c. div. the amount put
by to reserves is the smallest, with the exception of
1903, when, however, £713 was written off. Then
the “Commisions, interest and rent” item has
slumped from £3350 as at June, 1910, and £3085
as at June, 1911, to £2412 for the past half-year.
With these three items lumped together it is impos-
sible to say which of them is responsible for the big
decrease. It is not likely that rents have gone down
much—property stands in the accounts for exactly
the same as last year. So the only conclusion to
come to is that interest and commissions have
dropped, and that isn’t at all satisfactory for a
trustee co. Sundry creditors total £ 12,553, as
against £13,341 last year; and sundry debtors are
£19,262, as against £20,392 in 1911. There is
nothing to indicate what thesp creditors are, though
it is pretty certain that a great bulk of them are
loans, but for what purpose isn’t stated. If they are
loans, then the capital has to guarantee them as well
as the estates, and the Father of Three will look
twice before he puts his affairs into the hands of a
co. which can’t give trust estates all its attention.
However, as is mostly the case wifjh modern trustee
cos. there is a large uncalled capital to back up its
clients. Also, with a small paid capital, dividends
don t weigh so heavily on the co.’s shoulders, so the
reserves are not sacrificed to the sake of big divi-
dends. Deposits, etc., total £6857, loans on mort-
gage £5525, and property £3258, so the co.’s assets
are practically all liquid.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society
of Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Dividend
(5 p.c.) Written To Re- De-
Profit. and Bonus. Off. serves, ficit
July, 1905.. £1637 £1441 £215 _ £ns
Jan., 1906.. 2661 1786 440 435 ReSerV 259
July, 1906.. 1884 1864 267 —. 19
Jan., 1907.. 3450 2607 471 372 384
July, 1907.. 3483 3000 757 _ no
Dividends only
(no Bonus).
Jan., 1908.. 2493 1209 998 286 396
July, 1908.. 164 Nil Nil 164 560
Loss.
Jan., 1909.. 220 Nil Nil 340
r 1 Deficit.
July, 1909.. 3712 Nil Nil 3372
Profit.
Jin., 1910.. 2034 Nil Nil 2034 1338
July, 1910.. 1694 Nil 356 1338
Capital forfeited and written off, £4062
Jan., 1911.. 935 Nil 935
Reserves.
Capital forfeited, £1214
July, 1911.. 964 Nil 1207 971
Capital forfeited, £1125
Jan., 1912.. 1345 Nil 1146 199 2295
Capital forfeited, 1678 .. 2973
July, 1912.. 231 Nil 1136 2068
It is a complicated situation, and only an in-
curable optimist would describe the method of pre-
senting the accounts as satisfactory. This co-
operative concern has so much difficulty in getting
its co-operative shareholders to co-operate that it
levies a fine of £1 on every shareholder who doesn’t
buy goods to the value of £l2 per annum. This
amount is deducted from the shareholders’ capital.
So it comes to pass that in two years the society
has forfeited £7079 of capital, and" after paying no
dividend since the beginning of 1908 it contrives,
with all this forfeited capital, to have £2068 of
reserves. During the past half-year these have been
the disappearances;—
Property Realisation Account vanished. . £l9 0 0
Last half-year’s balance vanished .. 199 0 10
This half-year’s earnings written off . . 231 211
Written off from reserves .. . . .. 687 8 1
£1136 11 10
And there are cheerless remarks in the report.
Especially it is mentioned that the society tried to
sell its premises at auction, but the highest bid
( £26,000) wasn’t satisfactory. Also, that it has
sold off its drapery stock in one act—perhaps be-
cause its genius didn’t incline towards drapery—and
proposes to start a furniture department instead.
Perhaps its genius won’t incline towards furniture
either.
The trouble seems to be that, from the very first,
this concern has tried to carry too vast a load of
real estate on too little business, and on insufficient
capital. Consequently its shareholders have grown
dispirited. At January, 1909, it had 13,283 share-
holders ; now it has 8334. Its sales reached the top
m January, 1908, when they were £82,676; now
they are £67,505. It is an improvement on the
figures of the four previous half-years (the sales got
down as low as £64,106), but it isn’t a vlrv
cheerful figure all the same. The net profits, accord-
ing to the society’s own calculation (which doesn’t
quite square with The Bulletin’s), were £3508 at
""'W 190 / ; now, as shown above, they are only
Soil- z’ 11 -’ 1909 > the concern showed a loss of
£3826 (society s figures), so things have been worse
than they are to-day. No dividend has been paid
since January, 1908, and no bonus to purchasers
since July, 1907. The capital keeps diminishing.
At January 1912, it was £54,276; at July, 1912, it
was £53,55>5. The debenture debt has increased
Hi’ 776 (Jquinary, 1912) to £11,817 (Julv,
iyi2). the mortgage remains stationary at £13,000
the bank overdraft has grown from £12,886 (Janu-
ary, 1912) to £14,071 (July, 1912). The value of
/ell from £32,015 (January, 1912) to
£31, 953 (July,. 1912). Expenses have grown a
little, and provision for bad debts has grown a
Uttle The concern, with its comparatively small
capital, tries to run so many concerns that it is over-
loaded. It has property in Flinders-street, at Rich-
mond and at Williamstown. It Tuns a bakery in
addition to its general store business. It has sold its
drapery job, and proposes to start a furniture iob.
It carries a stock of coach-building materials. It
deals in land ah Richmond. It holds shares in the
Co-operative Credit Bank. It has an interest in
the Zeehan (Tas.) Co-operative Society. In fact, it
seems to have everything except some ready cash and
a good solid, unpretentious, condensed business.
R H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) : .
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
June, 1909.. _ £ll 4J6
Dec., 1909.. £7,942 10p.c. = £2500 £5442 5 974
June, 1910.. 7,033 10 „ „ 2571 4462 1.512
Re-
serves
Dec., 1910.. 10,600 10 „ 2686 7914 6 402
, If
Pref.
6 n.c. Ord.
June, 1911.. 10,432 260 10 p.c = 2745 7427 13,829
Dec., 1911.. 13,065 533 10 ~ „ 2765 9767 93,596
June, 1912.. 11,112 Div. & Bonus 3896 7216 3o’si2
In some respects these accounts are very unsatisfac-
tory. the reserve fund mounts up partly by
plain and visible additions, and partly by the un-
expected arrival of sums of monev the origin whereof
is wholly unexplained. When £3229 4s. 7d., or id.
or some such amount, turns up in this fashion, the
only method by which the table of figures can be
made to look coherent is by adding that much to the'
profits. Which is the reason why the last balance-
sheet declares the net profit as £7212, while The
Bullets puts it down as £11,112. The attempt
to distinguish between ordinary and preference divi-
dend has been abandoned. At December, 1911 the
paid capital was £76,220 (the balance-sheet some-
how made it read £79,220), of which £14,848 was
preference; £56,853 ordinary, and £4519 paid in
advance of calls—presumably calls on preference
shares, but that was not explained. At June, 19X2
the capital was £81,957, but whether the difference
carries a complete half-year’s dividend or not there
is nothing- to show. A dividend of £5BB was paid
on pref. shares, and this was supposed to represent
something- not mentioned p.c. Also a bonus was de-
clared, but that was mixed up with the dividend and
bonus on the ordinary shares. Apparently this hash
represents somewhere between 9 and 10 p.c. all
round, but life is short and finance is long, and the
job of disentanglement is too terrible. The declared
profits and the profits that just happened have moved
in this fashion :
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. & L. Additions to
Account). Reserve Fund.
June, 1909 £4137 ?
Dec., 1909 5822 £2l‘>o
June, 1910 5685 1448
Dec., 1910 7339 3261
June, 1911.. .. .. 6840 3592
Dec., 1911.. .. -.. 8156 4909
June, 1912.. .. 7212 3900
Ihe profits are good—in fact, assuming that the
assets are in no way over-valued, they are very good.
Still, it is noticeable that the co. reached a "sort of
pinnacle at December, 1911, and the half-year just
ended shows a decline both in the declared profits
and in the amount which mysteriously drops into
the reserves. The assets are lumped into two huge
items: “Freehold and Leasehold property, Stock on
hand, Shop and Office Fittings, Plant, etc.',” £75 454 •
and “Sundry Debtors,” £59,148. This pair of re-
marks supplies very little information. Up to the
end of 1910, the first item included goodwill—
amount not stated —but at that date it was explained
that goodwill stood for £20,000, and the sum was
written off. Leaving it out of the question, this is
how things have moved :—•
Property, Stock, Sundry
Fittings, etc. Debtors.
June, 1909 .. £7,206 £41391
Dec., 1909 .. 6,944 50 230
June, 1910 .. 8,577 53,880
Dec., 1910 .. 63,782 68,402
June, 1911 .. 58,485 74,684
Dec., 1911 .. 60,889 90 631)
June, 1912 .. 75,454 89,14 S
For the first time since the co. started business, the
Sundry Debtors”—presumably amounts owing by-
purchasers of time-payment goods—show a decline.
A great many companies are showing a decline in
these days of hie-h wages, low tariff, huge imports,
great gold outflow (to pay for the imports) and con-
sequent cash scarcity. This co. never by any chance
includes either cash or liquid securities among its
assets, so presumably it trades right up to the limits
of its capital.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Government has realised,
rather late m the day, that it was a clumsy and cur-
sory community when it devised a Gas Bill, under
which the_ Sydney Gas Co. would pay a rigidly re-
stricted dividend, on rather less than the amount
actually put up by shareholders, while the North
Shore Co. and the Newcastle Co. and others could
turn their reserves into capital, and pav dividends on
a great deal more money than the shareholders actu-
ally paid up. So now there is a scmiie to amend the
Bill, so as to provide that divs. will only be pay-
able on the amount of the paid-up capital as it stood
when the measure was introduced. Even that arrange-
ment won’t hold the balance even between the co
which had, in previous years, transferred some of its
reserves to capital, and the one which had trans-
ferred some of its premium capital to reserves. It
is all a muddle, like the famous Income Tax Bill
which gave the landlord, and even the absentee land-
lord, a huge advantage over the little manufacturing
company that made a mere scrap of profit by em-
Pmymg white Australians at white men’s wages.
That attempt, by an alleged Labor Government to
give special privileges to the most objectionable kind
ot landlord, has never been explained to this day, and
quite a lot of people would like to know what lay
behind it. 3
9 * *
The Newcastle and County Mutual
BtiiLPiNG Land and Investment Co. (Newcastle,
N.S.W.), from the time when £2501 of forfeited
capital was added to reserves:—
, _ Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves
1899 .. £1599 2£p.c. =£64l £1123 £5992
1900 .. 1502 4 „ „ 1024 631 5769
1901 -■ 1439 5 „ „ 1281 1209 4718
1902 .. 1710 5 „ ~ 1281 708 4439
1903 .. 1543 5 „ ~ 1281 790 3911
1904 .. 1784 5 „ „ 1281 139 4275
1905 .. 1578 5 „ „ 1281 126 4446
1906 .. 1598 6 „ „ 1537 390 4117
190/ .. 141 S 5 „ „ 1281 71 4183
1908 .. 1524 5 ~ ~ 1281 4499
1909 .. 1632 5 ~ ~ 1281 4777
1910 .. 1669 5 „ „ 1281 5165
1911 •• 1769 5 „ „ 1281 - 5653
1912 .. 1825 , 5 „ ~ 1281 430 5767
Bulletin admits that it isn’t at all satisfied
with the above table, and for a very small induce-
ment (say, two pins) it would re-cast the whole
thing, and say that the reserves are only £3586.
The point is that the co. has £3586 of undivided
pionts and £2lBl, “amount allowed for deprecia-
tion.” This latter item is deducted from the alleged
value of “freehold and leasehold properties,” as if it
represented _ depreciation which had already taken
place, and if so it has ceased to be a reserve. At
the. same time the amount is kept before the public
as if it was still available, and in that case it is a
reserve Year after year the' case is set forth some-
thing like this:—-
Freehold and leasehold properties . . £l5 053
Less amount allowed for depreciation . . 2,181
£ 12 872
It is a variable figure, but it doesn’t vary ’much
Some other details follow: —-
'1899. 1904. 1909. 1910. 1911. 1912.
£ £ £ £ £ £
Deposits 3,362 10,978 15,699 16,133 18,507 19,367
Other lia-
bilities 6,773 3,362 2,934 2,710 790 6?l
Advances 18,046 28,318 34,249 34,941.35,572 36 943
Proper-
ties _ 24,248 17,178 15,399 15,306 15,617 15,053
The position can’t be described as a strong one The
deposits have_ increased very largely in recent years
whUe the capital has not. There are no liquid assets.
Ail the capital, the very moderate and rather dubious
reserves, the deposits and a trifle in the way of bank
overdraft, are buried in the business, and it isn’t the
sort of business out of which much money can be
rescued at very short notice, should a demand set
in. The directorate seems a sanguine combination.
It has certainly made a good deal of allowance for
depreciation since 1899, hut what it calls its reserves
are actually less than they were in that year. At a
time when the boom isn’t looking nearly so healthy
as it did, and when it may look worse almost any day,
the addition of £ll4 to the visible savings is no
lavish provision for the future. The profits are in-
creasing, but they are not increasing fast. The net
income from properties is described as £461. Now
if the “amount allowed for depreciation” is meant
to appear as a real reserve, and not a sum that has
already been swallowed up, these properties stand at
.£15,053, and the return is £3 Is. 3d. p.c. It is
impossible to take that sort of valuation quite seri-
ously. _ And if the “amount allowed for depreciation”
is written off, then the properties are valued at
£12,872, and they return £3 11s. Bd. p.c. In that
case, the alleged reserves are reduced to a humble
£3586, and still the properties, look over-valued.
On the evidence of the figures it looks as if the
Newcastle and County Mutual Building, Land and
Investment Co., Limited, would be a very lucky insti-
tution if it sold its freeholds and leaseholds at their
alleged value, and then put the money into Govern-
ment securities.
The Union Building Society, Mel-
bourne :—-
Net Added to Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1905.. __ £2124
1906.. £lOlO 5 p.c. = £560 £450 2574
1907.. 1640 6 „ ~ 1555 85 2659
1908.. 2264 6 „ „ 1654 610 3269
1909.. 2410 7 „ ~ 2068 342 3611
1910.. 2848 7 ~ „ 2251 597 4208
1911.. 3629 7 „ ~ 2517 1112 5320
1912.. 4317 7* ~ ~ 2971 1346 6666
The last line will probably be subject to some slight
revision next half-vear, for the amount of the divi-
dend which the Union Society declares, and the
amount of the dividend it pays, are always a few
pounds apart. The institution is, on the face of
things, sound and prosperous. That is to say that
the profit just" shown is the largest for quite a num-
ber of years, and so is the dividend, and so is the
reserve, likewise the amount added to the reserve.
All these things are eminently pleasant, and the world
was full of just such pleasant things before the great
smash of 19 or 20 years ago. If the present prosper-
ity proves to be a hollow affair, based on the grant-
ing of loans upon boom values, then the Union will
probably strike a bad time, for it has done a steadily-
growing loan business and has no liquid securities to
fall back upon. Its capital, reserves, deposits, loans
and bank overdraft have all been plunged into the
mortgage business. This is a brief statement of the
case:—■
Liabilities Assets.
on , £
Deposits, Loans, Liquid
July, Overdrafts, etc. Mortgages. Assets.
1906 .. £17,825 £47,749 £136
1907 . . 25,041 56,394 43
1908 . . 33,529 67,818 29
1909 .. 35,284 72,428 52
1910 . . 44,348 86,109 6
1911 . . 46,239 93,158 21
1912 . . 63,490 115,148 36
The liquid assets might be made to look a little
better by including: £lOO worth of furniture, but as the
society can’t sell its desk and do business on the floor
the furniture is hardly worth considering. The in-
stitution has a big margin on paper between its
assets and its liabilities, but everything depends on
circumstances. The assets may depreciate—they are the
sort that often depreciate badly after a land boom,
unless the lender has been a confirmed pessimist. The
liabilities won’t depreciate. The assets are not of
the liquid sort, and if much of the liabilities are
liquid, and hard-up banks or other lenders begin to
want their money in haste, a lot of things may
happen even to a concern with so wide a margin of
security as this one.
* * * *
The Charters Towers Gas Co. (Q.) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1904.. £968 10 p.c*=£loso £93 £2399
Oct., 1904.. 1375 10 ~ „ 1050 100 £225 2624
Apl., 1905.. 985 10 „,, 1050 2559
Oct., 1905.. 1438 10 ~ ~ 1050 100 288 2847
Apl., 1906.. 603 10 ~ „ 1050 0400
Oct., 1906.. 1345 10 „ „ 1050 100 195 2595
Apl., 1907.. 999 10 „ „ 1050 2544
Oct., 1907.. 1039 10 ~ ~ 1050 125 - 2408
Apl., 1908.. 930 10 „ „ 1050 2288
Oct., 1968.. 1208 10 „ ~ K5O 200 2 ;> 46
Apl., 1909.. 767 S „ „ 840 2173
Oct., 1909.. 887 8,, ~ 840 47 99° ,
Apl., 1910.. 337 Nil 337 2-’2»
Dec., 1910.. 1377 Nil 597 780 3000
June, 1911.. 1340 Nil 650 690 3690
Dec., 1911.. 1308 10p.c.= 1063 500 3435
June, 1912.. 1116 Nil 016 500 3935
There used to be an electric light company, as well
as this gas co., in the Towers, but the town wasn’t big
enough to support two families, so the gas co. bought
out its rival. The price paid was £6500, of which
£5OOO came from the bank, and, by keeping off divi-
dends for a few years, the co. has reuuced this
plaster to £2034. Gas sales are not what they
should be. From £2629, as at June, 1911, they
have dropped to £2420, as at June, 1912. The
revenue from the electric light branch has been
moving the same way, and has shrunk from £1428,
at June, ’ll, to £1372, for the half-year to June, ’l2.
After providing for depreciation, etc., this leaves a
profit for the electric light section of £242, as com-
pared with £239 for the previous six months. The
co. certainly doesn’t lead a riotous life; though, if
the gas sales keep up, shareholders will be much
better off when the whole of the overdraft is pushed
right off the doorstep.
* * * *
The customs smelting idea of the N.S.W.
Mines _ and Smelting Go. has fallen into the soup
with just the miserable splash that was to be ex-
pected (B. 22/2/’l2). The proposal now is to
option the mine at Breadalbane to an intermediate
company, having a capital of £15,000 in £lO
shares. The purchase price is £3OOO, and one-tenth
fully paid interest in any sufficiently optimistic co.
that can eventually be found to take over the pro-
perty. A condition of the option is that £320 per
month is to be paid by the intermediate company for
the first six months, such sum to be credited against
the purchase price. There is no mention of what
happens* if the option is not exercised.
Another step has been taken in the dreary
negotiations between the Mount Drysdale and the
New Eldorado (N.S.W.). Both these cas. have been
dodging labor conditions for some time past, on the
pretext of hatching a beneficial scheme of amalga-
mation. The directors of the former concern now
state that after “great and serious consideration,”
they dislike the recommendations of the committee
appointed to go into the question. The suspension
expires in November next, and something must be
done. A new plant is wanted to treat the alleged
large body of payable ore in Mount Drysdale, but
the co. is in debt. The efforts to option the mine
to an English company have so far proved unsuccess-
ful. A re-construction or a voluntary liquidation is
suggested.
Y Water tin co. (N.S.W.) was suspected
of being a failure when it first started work, because
borehole tests averaged (o.Blb. to 0.91 b.) less than
lib. per cubic yard. Last half-year’s average was
1.3171 b. from 333,000 cubic yards. The dividends
declared to date total £26,000. Since the start
1,528,000 cubic yards have been sluiced for 865
tons of tin oxide, showing an average yield of
1.2691 b. per cubic yard.
*' * *
The Homeward Bound, at Yalwal
(N.S.W.), crushed 1330 tons for £l7OO. There is
a quarry 100 ft. deep, and the rock throughout is
gold-bearing, but a great deal of it is low-grade.
That is a matter of history, for it isn’t by any means
the first time that this mass of low-grade auriferous
rock has been worked. Costs have been cut down to
ss. or ss. 6d. per ton, which is practicallv the same
rate as the Alaska Treadwell (U.S.A.). There costs
are $1.22 per ton (nearly 55.) for an enormous out-
put. Recently the Homeward Bound returns have
been running from 20s. to 255. per ton of ore. This
comparatively high .yield is accounted for by the
fact that the crushing stuff is being taken from a part
of the mine near to which some rich yields were ob-
tained 20 years since. There is a big body of pay-
able stone, and 40 head of stampers are at work.
No slimes plant yet.
* * * *
Lead at £22 10s. is £7 higher than it was
last year, and as the Junction North (Broken Hill)
produced 615 tons of 56 p.c. lead concentrates for
the week ending September 21, the value of the lead
contents (344 tons) is £2410 higher than the value
would have been 12 months ago. These concentrates
also contain 20,3950 z. of silver. Some time since it
was considered a misfortune that the concentrates re-
quired so long to drain, for slimes take a long time


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 O Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th June, 1912 £9,258,750 10 7
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
REGULAR accounts, fixed and low
CHARGES. ABSOLUTE SECURITY.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from 5 per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
’ Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane ; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney ;
McCLEW & CO., Adelaide ; MALLOCH BROS., Perth
-+-GF4- MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. —Aslc the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+GF + Malleable Fittings are true to size ; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from ffm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. A saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. by 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12.
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence that
‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the directors;
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the pipe to use before
all others if the liquid to be carried contains acid
or mineral in solution; also, if the pipe is to be
laid in corrosive soil. Catalogues may be had from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain and
Footseray.*
* * * *
The Dept, of Public Works, Sydney, has accepted
the tender of Haes and Eggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for the pumping machinery for the
Broken Hill water supply, consisting of Wolf Super-
heated Steam Plants, driving Gwynnc pumps. Com-
petition was world-wide, and the deciding factors
were reliability and economy. See page 3.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* # [2
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
•*. * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Cot.lison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* *■ * *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to 11. 15. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals : etc.*
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monotael
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
to dry, and smelters are particular about moisture,
but the delay in realising on lead and zinc concen-
trates has been fortunate. The management continues
to regret the shortage of miners, but the output is
large in proportion to the quantity of ore known to
exist in the mine. A subject for genuine regret is
that the mine has been (since No. 9 level was
opened) depleted of 607,829 tons of ore for such
an inadequate profit (dividends, £79,500). That
stupid kind of result has been achieved by forcing
production when lead and silver were selling at low
prices. The share market has been taken care of at
the expense of the mine.
Lead statistics are of interest now the
price is unusually high. For August, Britain im-
ported 16,050 tons of lead, compared with 14,356
tons in July, 1912, and 20,697 tons in August, 1911.
For eight months, British lead imports total 138,651
tons, compared with 150,013 tons for first eight
months of 1911. Germany has sprung into second
place as a consumer of lead, following United States,
with Britain third, so British imports are not such a
good guide as they used to be. Britain bought
38,684 tons of Australian lead in the first eight
months of this year, an increase of only 3797 tons
compared with eight months of the previous year.
In Germany there is a decided preference for lead
concentrates, so it cannot be wondered at that the
Broken Hill Prop., for six months to May 31, sent
16,149 tons of soft lead to India, China and Japan,
while only 21,155 tons were shipped to Europe.
* * * *
Mount Molloy (O.) lias decided to recon-
struct into a No Liability Company of £150,000, in
£1 shares, on a basis of share for share. The 50,000
preference shares are to be exchanged for fully-paids,
and the 100,000 ordinaries for shares paid up to 14s.
The debts of the old co. amount to £9177, so these
and the liquidation expenses will make a fair cut
out of the £30,000 to be raised. In addition to the
cash resources of £166, the co. has four assets.
There is the railway, which it wants to sell to the
Queensland Government, and can’t, as the latter
already has too many railway projects on hand, and
there is a timber concession that doesn’t seem to pro-
duce much coin, judging from the accounts sub-
mitted. The third asset is the mine and smelter, re-
moved 60 miles by rail from Cairns, and the fourth
is a large fund of hopefulness that the third can be
made to yield a profit now that copper has attained
fairly giddy heights. The mine closed down when
copper only brought £55 to £6O per ton, and when
the supply of basic ore gave out. This latter fact
doesn’t seem to be mentioned. There are two parallel
lodes —the western, which is known as the main ore
body, and the eastern. The former has been worked
to 37_0ft. in depth, the latter to 470 ft. The proposal
now is to drive south at the No. 1 level of the east
lode, and to open up the main ore body from 370 ft.
to 470 ft. Also to sink the main shaft a further
100 ft., and open up both the main and east lodes to
the 670 ft. levels. There is not much to do it on, and
the returns from the 24,000 tons of 3 p.c. copper ore
in sight are not likely to swell the coffers to any ex-
tent, if at all. Some sort of mechanical concentra-
tion will be attempted prior to smelting. The report,
though dressed as nicely as possible, seems to have
the rattle of dry bones. This paper hopes for the
future, but doesn’t carry a big swag of expectations.
The boom in metals is some comfort to
battling Chillagoe (Q.). For three months to Sep-
tember 13, 10,738 tons have been smelted for 327
tons of copper, 478 tons of lead, 39,5890 z. silver and
27680 z. gold. Compared with the first two months
of the current half-year there has been a considerable
decline in the quantity of ore. In April, 5643 tons
were smelted for 242 tons of copper, 331 tons of
lead and 24,9570 z. silver. Last month’s return from
3716 tons ore was: 61 tons copper (10 days’ smelt-
ing), 297 tons lead (28 days’ smelting), and
20,7890 z. silver. The Einasleigh mine is supplying
most of the copper ore, and the Lady Duff (Stan-
nary Hills), Crooked Creek and Etheridge mines
supply lead ore. Muldiva and Mungana are also pro-
ducing on _ a limited scale. Reserves are not large
at Einasleigh (71,242 tons), but the mine has yet
to be opened up below No. 4 level. At Mungana, the
Lady Jane mine is still on fire, but the jet of water
at high pressure playing on the heated ore is cooling
the old stopes.
* * * - -X-
Hampden (Cloncurry) contemplates a
big move. Though only starting with its large new
plant to delve into the ore-reserves at the Hampden
and Duchess, this co., like its powerful, neighbor the
Elliott, has been picking up development shows
wherever a decent one offered. Lack of eash has
been a serious drawback. The recent spurt in shares
indicated that something was doing behind the
scenes. The proposal now comes forward that the
capital be increased to £400,000 by the creation of
100,000 new shares of £1 each. B’g game is being
sought, as an option of purchase has been secured
over the McGregor (Cloncurry) as a going concern.
Shares in the latter company likewise spurted, until
the market has nut a valuation of about £lOO.OOO
on the mine. This seems an excessive price, and, if
the Hampden pays it (there is no mention of price
in the official circular), the profit on the McGregor’s
8 p.c. copper ore, which will have to be transported
25 miles to the Malbon-Duchess line, is evidently
estimated at about £1 per ton. This, of course,
takes no account of the ore to be discovered, or of
the low-grade stuff already developed in the McGre-
gor group. As stated before, the Hampden financial
nosition is too weak for a venture of this kind, but
the milk in the cocoanut lies in the second resolu-
tion, to be put before shareholders at the extraor-
dinary meeting on October 8. This is that, subject
to the increase of capital being decided on, the direc-
tors be confirmed in their acceptance of an offer from
Lionel Robinson Clark and Go. for the sale to them
of 50,000 shares at 50s. per share, with the right to
call for 50,000 shares within six months, at 565. per
share, the commission being 5 p.c. This option is
considerably in advance of Baillieu’s 50,000 at par.
On the assumption that the capital is increased to
£400,000, as shown, the Hampden will have over
£300,000 to splash around in its dream of Cloncurry
conquest. The smelter is now daily adding to the
coffers, and should early extinguish the debts out-
standing. With its team of Hampden, Duchess,
McGregor, Trekelano, Mascotte, Scalper and Answer,
the co. should be carried a long way towards that
dream.
* * * *
The Cloncurry Warden reports in an in-
structive manner about the Argylla group of mines,
some of which have been for many years held as a
freehold. The Warden refers to the sinking of a
shaft on one of the ore lenses which is typical of
this part of the field. On the surface the ore is 2ft.
wide, value 40 p.c. At a depth of 50ft. there is a
width of 6ft., worth 18 d.c., while at 100 ft. the lode
is 26ft. wide, assaying 6 p.c., which, from a copper
gouger’s point of view, is unprofitable. Wide forma-
tions of quartz, ironstone and kaolin contain narrow
lenses of ore, that rapidly become poorer at increased
depth. The small shipments also make it evident
that the extent of the high-grade ore is very limited.
Still, there are many different kinds of mines, some
of which, like Mount Elliott, contain large deposits
of ore that can be attacked by open cutting; while
others, like the Duchess, have quartz-bornite, carry-
ing good values over a few inches in width, down
below a depth of 500 ft.
* * * *
The North Australian Exploration syndi-
cate (Cloncurry, Q.), has despatched 30 tons of ore
from Mount Lindsay. At its Mammoth lease a surface
discovery of high-grade ore to the north of the shaft
has been made. Staubwasser, one of the prospectors
of Mount Lindsay, is endeavoring to get an ore buyer
appointed by the Government, for the Cloncurry cop-
per gouger isn’t too well satisfied with the prices paid
locally. Still, when the metal market is booming the
purchase of high-grade ore at its full assay value
is risky, and the banks will only make limited ad-
vances on ore shipments.
The North Duchess Copper Company
N.L. has been formed in Sydney, with a capital
of £20,000, in 10s. shares, of which 20,000 were
offered for public subscription. The vendor’s conso-
lation was 8000 fully-paids and £2OO cash, in re-
turn for which was given a property of 15 acres, ad-
joining the northern boundary of the Duchess mine,
Cloncurry district. This is a purely development
show, taken over on the chance of the Duchess shoots
pitching sufficiently north to benefit the co. There
are also the chances of other shoots being discov-
ered. There is a shaft 60ft. deep, and this is re-
ported to have tapped the lode; but the sinking of
a new shaft to 150 ft. in depth is contemplated.
At Croydon (Q.), Cuthberts’ Content
crushed 439 tons for 7830 z., value £1495. Viles’
Block, as the result of crushing 691 tons for 12020 z.
(£3255) has declared a 3d. dividend (£600). The
gold in this claim .is worth £2 14s. 2d. per oz.
Croydon gold varies a great deal in value. In the
early days there was so much silver that the smelted
bullion was sometimes worth less than 20s. per oz.
The Thames and Waihi goldfields, in Maoriland, are
noted for the large quantity of silver recovered with
the gold. At Mount Morgan there appears to
be no silver whatever in the blister copper, which is
somewhat unusual, for Mount Lyell (Tas.), Great
Oobar (N.S.W.), Great Fitzroy, Mount Elliott and
Hampden, Chillagoe and Mount Perry all produce
copper containing silver.
At Irvinebank (N.Q.) the Vulcan has
been for many years the leading tin mine. To the
end of the last half-year (August 3) it produced
3 0,944 tons of concentrates, worth £517,531, an
average of slightly over £47 per ton. Tin concen-
trates are now selling at more than double the aver-
age price for 20-odd years past. At the moment the
Vulcan is in danger of sliding back into second
place, behind the Governor Norman, for although
both mines produced 21 tons of concentrates in
August, the Governor Norman’s lot was worth £2117.
while the Vulcan’s was valued at £2067. Like
nearly all tin lodes, the Vulcan is an erratic mine.
Latest discovery is at the 750 ft. level, where there
is a strong make of ore, worth 2J p.c. tin oxide, to
the south-east. So far it has been proved 30ft. wide
and 30ft. long, and the 900 ft. level is being driven
to test its continuity at depth. The make of ore at
600 ft. proved a patch, but helped to provide £6600
(6d. per share) last half-year. During the six
months 4936 tons were crushed for 152 tons of con-
centrates, valued at £14,264. Since the start
£175,230 has been paid.
At present, Blair Athol (Q.), with an
output of over 70,000 tons of coal per annum, is the
most important Australian colliery in the tropics,
but its 50ft. seam extends over a wide area, and it
is only a matter of time before other collieries will
be at work. In Queensland they have such a habit of
praising up everything to the skies, that it is diffi-
cult to form a solid opinion as to whether Blair
Athol coal is equal for steam purposes to Newcastle.
It was alleged that a mixture of quick-burning Blair
Athol with slow-burning Bluff was just the thing,
and Mount Morgan is taking some of the high carbon
combustible from the Bluff for experimental pur-
poses, to ascertain whether anthracite, containing
80 p.c. carbon, can to some extent replace coke in
the smelting furnace. Neither the Blair Athol nor
Bluff coal produces a good coke, and Oallide Creek
colliery, 60 miles S.W. from the port of Gladstone,
has hardly made itself known yet. At Oallide Creek
there are two seams, one 50ft. and the other 16ft.
thick, and the coal has been prospected by tunnels
H miles apart. A sample from the 16ft. seam has
given a satisfactory test.
* * * *
Mount Cuthbert (Q.), to enliven the
gamble, intends to open up its Kalkadoon mine,
which has already produced some high-grade ore. The
shaft is down 86ft., and if the lode prospects well
at the 100 ft. level, more interest will be taken in
Cuthbert’s, which, however, isn’t likely to reach
the producing stage for a long time to come. The
Hampden, with its influential backers to shove it
along, waited long and spent money very liberally
before it got a start.
* * * *
At Charters Towers (Q.) there is less
excitement over Brilliant Deeps, though No. 5 level,
after passing through a blank, has made good again.
The crushing now going through looks well, and
there is every prospect of a good yield. Nothing has
been said about extending No. 4 level further to the
south-west, but it is quite possible that, if the reef
in No. 4 level maintains its present course to the
boundary, an offer will be made to the Brilliant
Block. The latter has continued its long crosscut
at the 2000 ft. level in the direction of the B. Deeps
boundary, but has not succeeded in locating the forma-
tion. B. Block shares are thought at Charters Towers
to be a good gamble, but it is evident that, if deeper
sinking and other work is done, more capital will
be required. An amalgamation with the B. Deeps
would simplify matters,' but Charters Towers cos.
very seldom amalgamate.
* * * *
Brilliant P.C. (Charters Towers) has
been leading the share market. For the week ending
September 21 3000 shares were exchanged, while
transactions in Deeps numbered 2100 shares, with a
weakening tendency. A few inches of mineralised
stone at the bottom of the new shaft, from the
1596 ft. level, has caused a more optimistic opinion
about the eastward extension of the Day Dawn. In
the winze 220 ft. east of the Freeholds boundary, a
drive has been started at 117 ft. below the level.
There is a large body of stone at the bottom of this
winze, and a heavy soakage of water, but the quality
of the stone is considerably mixed, and it remains to
be seen whether the quality will improve in the
drive. The upper section of the reef in the winze
was patchy.
St. Mungo Copper (N.Q.) is 24 miles
from the Duchess railway station, and has a contract
with camel teamsters to carry ore from the mine
at 255. oer ton. In August 132 tons were shipped,
value 24*3 p.c. The mine will increase its output
now that the south-east level from the main shaft
has broken through to the winze, where a wide face
of chalcopvrite is exposed. The proximity of the
railwav and the rise in copper have greatly improved
the prospects of the St. Mungo. The future depends
of course upon whether other lateral deposits are
discovered with further sinking, which, by the way,
will involve some improvement to the primitive
equipment. Obviously a show of that kind is very
speculative, and with 40,000 shares, it takes just
four times as much money to pay a sixpenny divi-
dend as it used to do.
* * * *
An interesting comparison of the condi-
tion of things at the time the Kalgoorlie wages agree-
ment was entered into 2 J years ago and now, appears
in the Westralian daily press. For the eigrht months
prior to the aforesaid agreement coming into force,
the output from the Kalgoorlie field was £2,418,000
or roughly £302,250 monthly, and for the rest of
the State £1,844,000, or about £230,500 monthly.
During this period Kalgoorlie paid dividends of
£577,024 out of the production mentioned above.
Altogether £1,840,976 went in exes., of which 44
p.c. represented wages. In the outside centres, with
an output of £1,844,000, five cos. paid dividends
aggregating £92,230 and £1,751,770 was absorbed
in costs. The difference between now and then is
that Kalgoorlie’s monthly production has dwindled
by £47,250, its dividends by £19,000 and seven
mines are now unable to pay their way, and, as the
rates of wages remained stationary while a larger
tonnage was handled and more men employed, the
wages paid show a book increase of about 6 p.c. On the
outside fields the difference in the figures is: Decline
in monthly output, £69,000 ; decline in monthly
dividends, £700; and several are off the dividend
list. In addition to this the position of every mine is
admitted to be infinitely worse as regards intrinsic
value, and in the interval the Lancefield, after pro-
ducing £828,000 at a loss has closed down and the
Northern and Vivien, with outputs of £1,022,000
and £320,500 to their credits, have followed suit.
Yet optimists are still to be found in the West who
claim that the mining outlook never looked better.
Lupton’s, near Barrambie (W.A.), which
The Bulletin has long regarded with cold sus-
picion, is ailing. The first two or three returns
were well up to official estimates, but, to the sur-
prise of all who were put in on top, the last one
wasn’t. As previously remarked on this page, there
may be bees, and even wasps, in the loveliest garden,
and in that of Lupton’s there seems to be blight also.
The remains of the late lamented Wes-
tralia Waihi were followed with some show of mourn-
ing to their last resting-place, in Adelaide, the other
day. For all the use it was living it would have
commanded more respect if it had died some time
ago. First of all, it misled shareholders over the
value of the Davyhurst property, and then over that
of. the duffer at Norseman. Still, the same considera-
tion and charity that was shown to the living was
shown to the dead, and there was a fair roll up of
financially sorrow-stricken shareholders at the inter-
ment.
Ingliston Consols, at Meekatharra(W.A.),
announces a production to date of about £150,000,
of which a good portion has been distributed in divi-
dends. The syndicate which owns the show is doing very
well, but things could be bettered. As emphasised
in B. 12/10/’ll, what ought to happen is the amal-
gamation of the Ingliston Consols and neighboring
mines into one or two groups. Such cos. would earn
more money for everyone, and the field would get a
better advt. * * *
Reports from Ida H. (W.A.) are as glum
as back numbers of this paper predicted. Costs
still mop up most of the revenue, and the prospect
of the show paying any more dividends is slender.
Good miners refuse to leave other places to live
in the locality where the Ida is situated, and on ac-
count of this and a narrow reef with a rapid dip,
working expenditure continues high, though a bit
less than it used to be. And besides these troubles
ther-e is an impoverishment in the bottom to contend
with.
* * * *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) is taking out all
that is worth having before abandoning the St. George
lease, Magnet, to its fate. Since development was
stopped some months ago, 2391 tons of picked ore
have been crushed for a recovery of £5901, of
which £2644 is stated to be profit. For the first
100 ft. or so of sinking the show looked well. Then
it began to get sickly, and at 200 ft. it was only
a spectre of its former self. Only a miraculous dis-
covery of a new shoot of gold could save the concern’s
life, and, as the present owner isn’t keen on looking
for one, its doom seems to be sealed.
More proof of the futility of Chaffers
(W.A.) spending money in searching for one or more
of the Golden Horseshoe’s shoots at 1600 ft. is shown
in the latest progress report issued by the manage-
ment of the latter co. All the faces within shouting
distance of the boundary are in low-grade material,
and, as stated in previous Bulletins, it appears as
if Chaffers will have to dig much deeper to find
the values it is seeking, and it will want a lot of
luck to get them even then.
* * * *
Kurnalpi (W.A.) not being pleasing to
the eye, the Adelaide-subscribed Kurnalpi option
syndicate has decided to give the Binti Binti lease
near Gindalbie (Vosperton) a trial. Some shallow
shafts have been sunk, and a trial parcel of 205 tons
recently crushed about 90s. per ton. The price asked
is £4OOO. There is no water close at hand, but a
supply of some sort was struck some time ago by a
Government bore two miles away. Without crush-
ing facilities on the spot, and with no water close
handy, the property is described by people who
ought to know as useless.
* * * *
More deception has been practised on the
Bullfinch co., of W.A., which fell in at Tooletville
and Leonora, and then went to Greenbushes. believ-
ing that it had at last got a mine. But instead of high
values only 4 p.c. tin was found in the main shaft
workings, ' while in the place of a rich 8 ft. lode,
worked down to a depth of 60ft. only, all the ore
was found to have been stoped out down to 90ft.,
and everything of any value in the show seemed to
have disappeared.
Production is being stimulated in the
West as a result of the high price of tin. Wodgina
is tipped to bloom and boom, and attempts
are being made to window-dress the prospects of
several shows in this and other centres at Pilbarra,
with a view to flotation. Coodardy, on the Mur-
chison, is described by geologist Woodward as highly
promising, and 25 tons of ore from one claim
yielded £9 per ton. A lot of ore is in sight on the
field, and boomsters are beginning to gather around.
Greenbushes maintains a steady *
Mines Minister Collier (W.A.) has, during
his 10 months of office, sanctioned the expenditure of
£9l 000 on water and crushing facilities in outside
districts, and £9OOO on improving the efficiency of
State mills. The work of purchasing and patching
up old plants, however, has not been a success, and,
as far as possible, the Department intends to go m
for new batteries in the future. *
Phillips River Co. (W.A.) has managed
to get a little more exemption in the teeth of strong
opposition. Even the local undertaker rebelled, on
the ground that corpses were not nearly so plentiful
as when the mines were working, and the pub-
keepers whose beer now gets stale waiting for con-
sumption and the agents of absentees who, in the
good days, loaned money on certain portions of
the bankrupt settlement, also took part in the dis-
turbance. So far half a million of English money
has been punk by the co. and its ancestors in the
district, and even with copper at its present price, it
is doubtful if dividends could be earned on the
present capital, plus the additional amount required
to get things going again.
* * *
At the Wallaroo and Moonta’s half-yearly
meeting, in Adelaide, an attempt was made to re-
assure shareholders about the future of this old con-
cern. The directors stated that the £7OOO, which
it is proposed to spend on the Moonta, is only part
of a comprehensive scheme of mine development.
At the end of the half-year (June 30) the cash in
hand and on deposit amounted to £30,000, of which
£20,000 is set aside for development work. The
Wallaroo may “never have looked better,” but min-
ing at 2340 ft. (the deepest level) is costly, and no
statement is available as to the ore reserves. Last
half-year the Wallaroo mine produced 2116 tons of
copper out of 2887 tons from all sources. At the
meeting the yarn went round that the co.’s present
returns were better than they were 20 years ago, but
during nine years to the end of 1911 the co. made a
profit of £184,577 out of old residues accumulated
on the surface. The average profit was £2B per ton
on 6572 tons of copper leached out of the old heaps.
In 1911 the cost of producing copper was £5l 12s.
sd. per ton, but five years before that (1906-1907)
the cost was £74 per ton.
Bore assays are notoriously unreliable.
Tongkah Harbor (Siam) gave the market a surprise
when the Australian manager took his dredges on to
a run of good wash-dirt, which, in September, 1911,
gave 149 tons of oxide. This year, four weeks to
September 31 only gave 116 tons. Still metallic
tin is more than £5O per ton higher than it was 12
months since. Tongkah is paying dividends.
* * * *
Adelaide Tramways Trust’s latest report shows that
it has 84 miles of track, Goodwood being the only line
on which the horse still does a bit at the outer or
suburban end—and that bit shows a heavy loss. In
the past half-year, the Trust carried 20,000,000 people,
and ran 2i million miles, earning over £140,000.
Working expenses amount to just about two-thirds of
the takings. During the last year there have been
895 1 “third party” accidents (of which 460 were due
to passengers getting out of a moving car). Five
of them were fatal, and £1383 compensation was
paid. In four years, the Trust has had 310 accident
claims made against it. Just half of them it repudi-
ated promptly, and the rest it settled, bar nine.
This meant nine lawsuits, of which it won two and
lost the rest. Juries always think a Trust —-even a
Municipal Trust —fair game to shoot at.
* * * *
The great advance made in the construction of In-
ternal Combustion Engines has now been further
demonstrated by the fact of Petrol, Benzine, Kero-
sene and heavy Oil Locomotives being brought into
daily and successful commercial use. The machines
are thoroughly reliable, and are cheaper in very
many instances than steam or electric locomotives.
Messrs. Ironside, Son and Dyckerhoff, of London,
have supplied a great number of their famous “New
Century” locomotives nearly all over the world, and
their machines are even working continuously and
safely in “gassy” coal mines. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne, will be pleased to supply further par-
ticulars.*


Under
Royal
Warrant
gd
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
CMAMPACHC
'^ariesllcidsiedc
Reims
World
BRAND
fg
IUHnJLS
pau/nouay
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
BUCHANAN’S
Black ®. White
Wk
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 30, 1912.
My Dear Arini.—
A fiddler in the land of George Washing-
ton (sometimes called G. Wash, for short) is
reported to have written to the G.-G. asking
if there is any hope of a permanent billet for
him in this part of the globe. Wild rumors
of the uses to which the State Government
may put Sydney’s stately old pile in Mac-
quarie-street had doubtless floated over to
the listening ear in Philadelphia. And by
the time the report reached there it probably
ran to the effect that a Ministry consisting of
Six Hatters and a March Hare had decided
to hang the Governor-General, and turn ms
residence into a College of Music, wherein
the Professorship of the Concertina would
carry a salary of £3OOO per annum, with
£2OOO per annum for the Professorship of
the Tin Whistle. The last word has not
been said, however, on the stormy subject of
old Government House. Minister for Hay-
seeds Trefld has a perfect right, to demand
the site for some pet hobby of his own. The
Carmichael Conservatorium or the Holman
Museum might give way to a nursery for
young artesian bores, or a forcing house for
early asparagus. The spicy humor of a
U.S. fiddler appealing to an evicted and
wholly temporary Governor-General for a
permanent billet in this State suggests Ber-
nard Shaw standing on his literary head in
order to place his tongue in his cheek.
The tumult of the fray over the Governor-
General’s expulsion from N.S.W. is begin-
ning to rumble amongst the quiet hills of
country townships. Prom a business point
of view, the presence of a wealthy peer, who
spends his cash with both hands, ought to
be encouraged. Monsignor O’Brien, the be-
nign-looking prelate in charge of St. John’s
College, suggests old Government House,
Parramatta, as a desperate remedy for the
eviction. But the ancient residence is swal-
lowed up within the realm of the King’s
School as a house for the smaller fry.
Whether _ the English public school system
of breaking up the central administration
into residential camps, more or less removed
from the headmaster’s eye, is without de-
fects, only the fry can say.
_ Some wiseacre once said that after ex-
cited public speakers had furiously banged
the table and made the habitual water-bottle
lean up against the tumbler for support, the
mildest-looking man on the platform would
usually deal the most smashing blow without
raising a finger. At the uproar in the Town
Hall, the other night. Mayor Walker (North
Sydney) only raised his voice a few feet
above the reporters’ table, and dealt the
State Government the unkindest cut of all.
“At the very time they say they can’t afford
to pay the rent (£3300 a year) for Govern-
ment House, they put an extra £lB,OOO on
the estimates for the increase in members’
salaries.” Then the meek voice of Mayor
Walker floated away into the infinities, and
the most biting remark of the evening was
removed in shorthand.
Governor Chelmsford has laid quite a large
clutch of foundation-stones during the past
three or more weeks. On Saturday after-
noon, his Ex. again performed his favorite
feat without misadventure. A new pavilion
for the Royal North Shore Hospital (St.
Leonards) was the primary cause, and loud
was the joyous cackle when the foundation-
egg was deposited. Mr. J. Randal Carey
who is something of consequence on the hos-
pital committee, lifted up his voice to welcome
the sub-Governor Chelmsford (the G.-G. being
still in this port), the ex-Sub-Lieutenant
Governor Cullen, and a steady stream of
Mayors and Mayoresses, who poured in from
various municipal strongholds. The com-
mittee, by the way, is reported to be going
broody on the troubled question of £17,000
or_ so—the cost of the new buildings. It is
fairly easy to lay foundation-stones, but to
hatch them into sovereigns or young bank
notes takes more than three weeks I’m told.
Concerning the Kaiser, his peppery tem-
per, and confirmed habit of apologising after
making a breach of the peace, this anecdote
is only 14 or 15 years old. Probably it has
improved with age. It hasn’t appeared in
print before, to the best of my belief, for the
less important half of the story told it to
me years ago.
the handsome and dashing
Miss M , an off-shoot of the Macarthur-
Onslow tribe. Sent to a school in Germany,
specially dedicated to the daughters of naval
and military officers who served the Kaiser-
land. The school being of the official class
was occasionally visited by the Emperor if
he happened to be dashing through time and
space in that vicinity. He appeared with
his usual unexpectedness one fine afternoon,
cast his eye along the boarding-school mus-
lins, _ then celebrating some little German
fete in the grounds, noticed the tall beauty,
asked who she was, and “commanded” her
to his Imperial presence. The navy being
one of William’s pet hobbies (he has several
hundred hobbies, I believe), he rattled off a
brisk catalogue of the British fighting
strength on blue water. “And your father
Miss, is commander of gunboat So-and-so, of
such-and-such tonnage.” “No, sir,” said she.
My father is captain of So-and-so, of so
many more tons.” Rage and consternation
on the part of a fighting column of German
governesses, while flaxen-haired daughters of
the soil nearly fainted with shame. To con-
tradict the Majesty of Germany—ach Gott!
William persisted. The girl was firm. Wil-
liam swallowed his Divine right in silence,
and rode off speechless with indignation.
Then the wrath of everything in the school
leapt up like a hundred devils. “Fool—im-
becile —ignorant one —what can you expect
from the mad English?—wicked one who dis-
graced the high standing of the school,” etc.
Next day came a courier with a letter from
the Kaiser. “He was wrong—Miss M. was
correct —still, he would advise young girls to
be less ready to contradict their elders.”
Tableaux. Frauleins were even more enraged
when the sinner got the sacred apology than
they had been at the original sin. The
good, the meek, the gentle German maidens
(perhaps they were of the homely type) had
not been so much as noticed, while—!— !• —■!
Organising Sec. Grace Burrows (Girls’
Realm) deserves three cheers, and any super-
fluous cheers that may be lying around, for
arranging an all-Australian wild flower show.
The parochial joy of a show which interests
Manly and the North Sydney settlements of
tiled villas, and even gets a few miles away
from the coast to Gosford, doesn’t thrill the
man at Darwin, or grip the interest of the
Westralian girl, but it has good points all
the same. For the first time, so far as I
know, the shy beauties of the bush were col-
lected from every State of Australasia to lift
up their heads together as the federated flora
of one nation.
Every section of the flower rally stalked
the wild blooms in their designs. The Arts
and Grafts’ exhibits were solid on the wattle,
gum-leaf, gum-blossom end waratah. Balla-
rat (Vic.) sent some of the finest examples
of metal work, with native flora designs, that
have been on view here. Miss Gwenda Mann
(Tech. Art School, Ballarat) harpooned the
first prize for a large copper coal-box, with
wild flora in relief. The National Gallery
trustees bought this beautiful piece of metal
work on sight. Miss Coralie McLeod, Mr.
Robert Caldwell and Miss Margery Mitchell,
also of Ballarat, were strong exhibitors in
this section. The National Gallery also
secured 18 pencil drawings, as fine and clear
as good etchings, of Australian vegetation.
Miss Annie Burrows (North Sydney) was
responsible for this work, which swept away
the first prize for its botanical accuracy. Some
wild and startled looking blooms in oils and
water-colors, ranged from moderately bad to
somethin’ awful,” as they say in the
classics. The worst offenders in the still life
display, I regret to say, were local splashers.
The ‘ artists” are quite still and dead every
year in some of our bi-annual picture shows.
The trustees of the National Gallery made a
further effort, and invested some good Corn-
stalk legal tender in a healthy and upstand-
ing jug, painted by Miss Ada Newman, of
Sydney.
Westralia sent along a wonderful collec-
tion of its pressed native trees (not its big-
gest trees, of course) —wonderful, because
nearly every specimen missed that dreadful
expression of having had its face mangled
under a steam-roller, which is peculiar to
dried forests. Another advantage the West-
ern roses of Sharon and lilies of the valley
seem to have over some of our paler beauties
is their fixed color —guaranteed to wash and
boil, I imagine. _ Anyhow, they sat up in
firm sprays of vivid pink, blue and crimson
flowerets, after the pressing machine or
botanical boot had stamped them flat, on
paper mounts. Miss Julia Sewell (W.A.)
garnered a prize in this section.
. Ethel Turner (Mrs. Curlewis) lent her
aid to the judges’ department of the Aus-
tralian wild flower rally. Little Mrs. Har-
rison (Amy Mack) plunged vigorously as an
exhibitor, and got away with a solid helping
of prize money. As the only judge of the
juvenile human-orchid show on Saturday
afternoon, she had to dodge the wrath of
mothers whose infants missed the omnibus,
and crept warily out of the turmoil on
noiseless soles. The mauve orchid (a small
boy with a long green silk body like
a stalk) won the first lap. Wattle-maiden,
a sweet thing with golden hair, was highly
commended. A purple iris, also very young,
consoled herself by selling £3 worth of
penny floral postcards for the Cause. The
tea-room was a persistent money-spinner.
In this section, Miss Lottie Gilbert, as one
of the assisting Girl-angels, wore a muslin
mob-cap, and a tricky pleated apron of some
diaphanous nonsense over her white gown,
and did it w T ith immediate success. Aprons
of this frivolous persuasion, however, are not
built for the ordinary tea and bun business,
though they’d certainly attract Percy Augus-
tus Cuffs and co. in his search for a six-
penny lunch.
In the section devoted to literary competi-
tions (Australian Wild Flower Show) great
was the rush of matter thereof. So great
was the rush that some of the competitors
fell over the English language with heavy
slaughter. Going through the efforts in “T”
section, open to all ages ; one noticed the com-
parative affluence of imagination and the
poverty of composition. Good ideas were
strangled by words that were not approxi-
mate to the sense of the author’s great flight
across the inky lay. The Queensland com-
petitors were ahead of the scribes in this
State and in Victoria in local color. Girls
in Bananaland can fling Latin at their
native flora with both hands, but they often
step aside to chatter with every wild thing
that hides itself away in tropic jungles or
temperate highlands. The influence of bricks
and mortar was several storeys high in some
of the N.S.W. efforts.
The “Guild League of Bird Lovers” will
hold its second annual chirrup on October 9.
The Turner Hall (Technical College) will
be the meeting place of persons of all sizes
who are pledged by fearful oaths (a) “To
protect all birds except those that are
noxious, etc.” When the bird-lover gets to
“etc.” he takes on the contract of goading
his friends and enemies to hunt for bird
sanctuaries. Most people—excepting little
boys, savages and suburban gardeners—are
ready to offer free board and lodging to
nearly anything with feathers, so the “etc.”
section ought to fill up with enthusiasm.
N.B. —The starling ought to be excluded
from the free list (in gutterings and under
verandah eaves) with the business end of a
broom.
The M.L. Tourist Agency here, with the
übiquitous E. H. Montgomery in charge,
spread itself out for advertisement on
Dominion Day, under a shady forest of 10ft.
palms. These were planted in pots or tubs
on the primeval (I mean, tessellated) floor.
One of the main props of the repartee de-
partment was U.S. Consul-General Bray,
whose jokes trickled through a suave man-
ner, like oil-drops out of a plump petroleum
well. The handsome David Mills (Union
S.S. Co.), a trifle more immaculate than
usual in honor of the day, and the affable
Swedish Consul, Ivon Goss (his whiskers
are worn in the foreign style and trained to
grow towards the ears), also contributed to
the gaiety of the party. The long and cheer-
ful Government Bone-Grader, J. Laing (of
Maoriland), rendered first-aid when chest-
nuts fell into the champagne.
The breathless energy of the busy little
Mrs. G. L. Goodman is now on the track of a
charity fete for the Veterans’ Home. Mrs.
Rutter is hon. organising secretary. The
Admirable King-Hall (very firm in good
works) will be the lever to open the event in
Victoria Barracks on October 23. It is going
to chase the nimble shilling through the pre-
text of a naval and military clash of frills.
October is the month of flying hoofs at
Randwick, roses in every patch of likely soil,
and heavy growths of garden fetes for char-
ity. St. Margaret’s Hospital for Women
(Bourke-street) wants its annual appeal for
help to build up a record cheque. Mayor
Clarke will tear himself away from the
gloomy subject of lost and strayed tram-
tickets, the tightness of money (Scoffers sug-
gests that the tight money should take the
pledge after its orgie of borrowing), etc., and
open St. Margaret’s garden party on October
Mr. Owen Cox gave the glittering assort-
ment of silverware prizes to the progressive
euchre party on (M.L.) Dominion Evening.
The game raged with unabated fury for some
time, in the Hyde Park kiosk. The names
of winners cannot be mentioned above a
whisper. Some of the players got away with
trophies that might incite the industrious
burglar to gnash his crowbar with joy, if he
tracked them to their long home in the
suburban sideboard.
Members of the _ Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron are sending forth invitations to
an afternoon party in the club grounds.
These are handsomely trimmed with grassy
lawns, that fall into the water off Ivirri-
billi Point.
. Reports of social hops, teas, muffins and
similar thrilling events, are likely to be
tripped up by the presence of two Misses
Molly Owen at the same frisks. One Molly
has been out in the feverish glare of society
for a year or two or thereabouts. She is
the younger of Mr. H. P. Owen’s two nice
daughters. Molly the second has just stepped
off the debutante’s white lily springboard
to plunge in the mazy waltz. She is a
young daughter of barrister Danger Owen
(Hunter’s Hill). H. P. Owen (Master in
Equity) and Danger are unrelated, but they
are close friends.
Miss S. Potter, the uncommonly good-
looking girl who was here about two or more
years ago (from London), is engaged. Her
young man is one Simon, a wealthy iron-
master on the other side. Miss Potter, I
fancy, dabbled in research work on the
rather stuffy subject of “social economy.”
The local Women’s Clubs, of all shades of
politics, fell upon the handsome Potter neck,
during the girl’s efforts to illuminate this
portion of the globe. She was a Girton
damsel, and is a daughter of the Potter who
collaborates with Birt and Hughes, as
owners of the Federal Line of steamers. A
brother, Roy Potter, is at present on these
shores.
Mrs. Edmund Playfair, mother-in-law-to-
be of George Reid’s pretty daughter Thelma,
went off to meet her son at Adelaide. A
Playfair daughter also tripped home in the
same boat with the brother who won the
Pie Commissioner’s daughter.
Mr. H. Spence, formerly collector of cus-
toms in Invercargill—where the wind whips
the Tam-o’-Shanter off the Scottish brow—
is passing through this town on his way to
the Cold Land. He takes up the expert work
of Government bulldog-in-chief at the
London end of the M.L. invoices, and will
check the faked statement with a warning
bark. Mrs. Spence and a daughter go for-
ward also to the Thames village, as per pas-
senger list.
Recent returns to this port are Mrs.
Mann (formerly of liandwick) and her son-
in-law and daughter, Dr. and Mrs. Burfitt.
The trio stay at Petty’s Hotel.
Mrs. Adams (who belongs to the Knox
clan) has packed up her youngsters and
other valuables, and departed with them to
join her Naval Surgeon Adams on the China
station. For some months she has been
visiting the spacious parental nest in these
parts.
The late Senator J. C. Neild, who gave the
first push to the Old Age Pensions Act in
the N.S.W. House of Bills (in the days be-
fore he bloomed in the Senate) was memor-
ialised in brass and bronze the other day.
Some of his Old Age friends in the Padding-
ton electorate contributed a handsome tablet
to the memory of the late ex-M.L.A., ex-
Senator and ex-poet. His family hung an-
other tribute in bronze on the walls of St.
James’s Church. This recalls the fact that
Mr. Neild was Colonel of the militia regi-
ment, which takes St. George and the Dragon
for its war whoop. Archdeacon Shields tore
aside the drapery of both memorials in one
day, so he had a crowded time.
Miss Fairy Burne, daughter of the well-
known dental-surgeon, Dr. Alfred Burne, of
this city, has recently joined the phalanx of
engaged girls. The lucky man is Mr. B. B.
Mills, of Queensland. Dr. Burne, by the
way, has an amiable reputation as a deter-
mined first-nighter, and one of the most cap-
able judges of gastronomy in this locality.
Mr. Chandler, who is the managing clerk
of the big legal firm, Minter, Simpson and
Co., acquired a very pretty wife this (Mon-
day) afternoon. She’s a Miss O’Farrell, of
Melbourne, well-known as a clever designer.
The bridal breakfast was served at Paris
House.
Mrs. Lena Conly (Vic.), a singing sister
of the renowned Mary Conly, is going to try
the adventure of a concert tour through the
Australian States. The party is supposed to
strike this collection of humpies about the
17th October. Of some interest will be the
first appearance of the lady fiddler of the
Conly co. Gertrude Summerhayes, a daugh-
ter of the well-known Mrs. Summerhayes,
one of the earlier identities hereabouts.
Walter Baker, who will tear the soul of
music out of a harp, has been a fixture in
Victoria for some years. He’s said to be as
good at his instrument as Lemmone is on the
flute.
Another small boy has added his howl of
anguish to the long list of “didn’t-know-it-
was-loaded” pea-rifle casualties. The victim
of the recent accident is a son of Dr. Muller,
and met his misfortune during a country
holiday the other week. The eye which was
in action has had its appearance wonderfully
renovated by the most ingenious devices of
modern science. Eye-Surgeon Odillo Maher
was the lancet in charge. The average pea-
rifle has such a habit of loading itself, or sud-
denly going on the burst (usually with fatal
results) that it ought to be invoiced
“Original Sin,” and sent back to Genesis.
Yours in dusty weather,
VANDORIAN.
“Old Soldier” : Opponents of the Australian
navy are pointing joyfully to the alleged fact
that the “voluntary” boys on the old train-
ing-ship Tingira, in Sydney Harbor are de-
serting “at the rate of about a dozen a
month.” It is probably a lie: but even if it
isn’t, there are precedents. If the Admiral
commanding-in-chief on this station would
publish the number of desertions among his
crews, it would give some people a shock.
When the Yankee fleet was in Australian
waters the men deserted at such a rate as
nearly to cripple the ships. It is the same
in all voluntarily enlisted navies and
armies. Men (or boys) join, not for
the pay, but because they are in
trouble, or out of a job, or fancy
they will like the life, or hope they will get
promotion quickly, or have adventures. Then
they come face to face with the reality, and
it is a disillusionment. Scrubbing tables
and forms and barrack-room floors is unro-
mantic, and drill is monotonous. It is a
curious fact that the French and Germans
have not the least trouble in manning their
navies with eflicient crews on a basis of three
years continuous compulsory service. Their
ships are just as highly mechanical as those
of the British, but they get their men older,
and from classes who are already prepared by
previous training for their work. They keep
their men because, in the eyes of a French-
man or a German, a deserter is a traitor to
his country, and hence a criminal and an
outcast. Voluntary enlistment is only a fad,
and if it fails Australia will have to
discard British rules, and fall back on the
universal system of compulsion.
In opening the Mitchell Library some
time ago, Governor Chelmsford, of N.S.W.,
alluded to pressmen as “penny-a-liners.” As
an acknowledgment, the Institute of Jour-
nalists entertained Lord Chelmsford, a
briefless barrister, and the son of a blun-
dering soldier, on Monday evening, at sup-
per.


*&?[
MM
fm
S'
W
A
m
a
m
."V-'A' M
. ~ - >
W /
Fj, ...•■*•
m
WM
'
W
A Jiif
B
', .* V!ifa * -i § l 15" 5? r , J ■
■V; I Vi If It} m i hH Mj\
UA'i- ’Af |f u fel>s >4 e *V? i. •: I. 2
) : B{ |] tv ;U 111 Hi Hi
; ••;• \ '•> - h*M :V.j i4v >•?. *• 4 \4: vs. -•: *
V | : |ss V I
iUly.
C" i !
) , o r-V't:; C* £~
WB”"" -
S 'iliU v ' .: ; •>'■■ ’;•:. f<- ■■ \ ;.. /•■ •>?■
f | f 11 \\: ■ c;; ; 4- f [ ; • j j
t<s x\i~ -v x\ •{'?4 : • ■; n f ‘ ; : 'j' ' V
: f i '*• ;> :j -.v .ij ;", ** •/ ’ • ? '• ?: j >. ?■» •?■•£
\ Mtll 1 1 |||j 11 j >IJ lII', ) f
X f i
\Mms :
s $B/ |; :
V H-‘ PS< ({ V i
VX ( I - I.* }
Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Bays a racehorse —
Something new.
“ Keep it dark and
Mum’s the word ! ”
“ Melbourne Cup, eh
“So I’ve heard.”
Chunder thinks he
Can’t be beat,
Highly bred and
Wondrous fleet.
Those who buy the
“COBRA” -stuff
Stand in early
Right enough.
Chunder on the
Training track
Knows the horse
That you should back.
Watch this page and
You will know
How to place a
Pound or so.


Farmer’s Fashionable Footwear
For Men.
The enviable reputation enjoyed by Parmer’s
Footwear for Men is the result of years of
careful attention in selecting the best in
appearance, comfort and durability.
We picture an example of Parmer’s Ster-
ling Value. It is a man’s “Footform” Tan
Willow Calf “Derby” Lace Boot; has upper
made of finest selected leather, and flexible
welted sole. We have all sizes, and can
supply all the newest shapes and latest shades
of Brown.
Price 251- pair.
Other Prices : 16/6, 21/-, 30/», 35/
•Bjinjisny jo jaud Aire oj ‘-oja ‘spooS A'jadeap
‘laaedde JiSuueaM ‘saoqs pue sjooq uo
30VIMHV3 31V AVd 3AV
dfg
25/-
Pair.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Ensure
Satisfaction.
Mining
Goods
,are now used on all
the leading Mines on'
account of their
Quality, Wear & Price
OUR Suction
Hoses, Rubber and
Balata Belting,
Packings and In-
sertions, Valve and
Sheet Rubber, etc.,
I have no equal.
I That’s why we are
now doing over 70%
| of the Mining Rub-
ber Goods Trade
| of Australasia.
Tenders and Samples Submitted.
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney
Adelaide. Perth.
Brisbane and
Chrutchurch. N.Z.
DUNLOP
CARDEN
HOSE
: r ]
Always
ask for...
DUNLOP
HOSE.
The Price is
Reasonable—
whilst its....
Quality and
Construction
ensures you
years of
Service and
Satisfaction.
Obtainable Leading
Stores but accept
only “Dunlop” brands
X X
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 30, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Mrs. Liverpool, the wife of Maoriland’s
new imported Excellency, is a pleasant-look-
ing Irish dame with a twinkle in her eye.
She can cook, sew, mend a broken limb, knit
socks and ride a bicycle. Unfortunately,
though, she can’t mend boots or do plumbing.
You must remember not to talk of either of
these accomplishments when you meet them,
or if you do you will be the cause of embar-
rassment.
One day last week the holiday-tanned
face of Aide Nutting looked wearily over the
bulwarks of a motor speeding up Collins-
street towards the Melbourne Club. Society
is starting to oil and steam in this direction,
now that the horse season is looming ahead.
Nutting represents the first drawing-room
swallow of the year.
A brand new betrothal has just been
trumpeted from London to interested Aus-
tralian relatives. Clive, the 20-year-old
hopeful of M.H.R. Willie Baillieu, is to
marry Ruby Clarke, daughter of wealthy
William Clarke, the sharebroking partner of
Lionel Robinson. Australian gold makes the
match glorious. The Clarkes live at Hamp-
ton Gardens, London, and the disgracefully
rich Robinsons have settled themselves in
some castle vacated by poverty-stricken aris-
tocrats. The engaged two are both just free
from college and finishing processes.
Ex-Gaud Mayor Burston’s son is busily
preparing for the altar ordeal. Dorothy
Jowett, a Toorak maiden, will take his arm
to the wedding march, on Tuesday, October
22, at the local kirk.
“Pigmies Amongst Potentates” is the title
of a book written by Florrie Finn (daughter
of Edmund Finn and grand-daughter of
“Garryowen” ditto), who wandered round
the world for a year or two, and took many
photos by the way. The whole of the pro-
ceeds of the publication (less actual cost of
printing and binding) are to be given to the
Children’s Hospital, and friends of that de-
serving charity are asked to help by sub-
scription at ss. a copy, the edition being
limited to the list of subscribers. Mrs.
Edmund Finn, Punch office, Melbourne, will
receive subscriptions.
Several wrnmen, who were hunting race
gowns, recently gathered round a model gar-
ment in one of the best chiffon stores. The
lovely clo’ was marked “sixty guineas,” and
looked capable of crumpling into a handful
and going through a bangle. The group
started to argue snappishly about who had
seen _it first, and trouble seemed to be im-
pending, when the wisp of contention was
whisked awav by a shop-lady with the brief
remark, “This_ has just been sold to Mrs.
Clarke.” Society is now looking forward
breathlessly to the first hot race day.
Barrister Ah Yet (a sad, regretful name!)
is betrothed to Gertrude, daughter of the
wealthy Bullocks, of Ivew. They are to be
married at the end of the year.
Concerning Chinese engagements. Did I
tell you that The Bulletin’s Past Grand
Barmaid was recently proposed to by this
paper’s eminent Mongolian' contributor, Ah
Too Soon? Sue rejected him with the yard
broom, two props, an empty champagne
bottle, three lumps of coal and a picket
wrenched off the fence. Fortunately someone
had borrowed the axe, or she would have
rejected him finally with that.
Professor Baldwin Spencer, who is just
now peering into foreign laboratories and
carefully considering retorts, proposes to re-
turn to his University post next March. The
professor s dame will come on a month
ahead to dust the furniture and set the
house in order.
The Guy Sherwood couple, after wander-
ing round Japan, had the late Mikado’s
funeral as a last spectacle, before taking
ship for Melbourne. Many charity commit-
tees will rejoice to have active little Mrs.
Guy back again on the financial waraath.
The furniture at the Agar Wynne estab-
lishment was hurriedly pushed into corners,
last Thursday night, to make room for the
St. Kilda footballers. The little lawyer host
is president of the club, and more than 90
kickers of the windbag came to eat and
drink at his expense. They faced the food in
three detachments in the dining and billiard
rooms and back parlor, and the clashing of
silver and steel sounded like a Roman legion
engaging a band of Carthaginians. But the
footballers were not the only people who
enjoyed the Wynne hospitality. An inci-
dental prowler burgled a meat safe and got
away with two colossal joints of beef.
Mrs. Hudson Marsden, just back from Lon-
don, is now shaking hands with her old
friends, after a five years’ absence, and ar-
ranging with some builder to make her a nest
at Macedon. Son Edgar, of the silvery
tenor, has made good in English comic
opera, and is staying on in the Fog. But his
vivacious, dark-eyed mother is repeating
over and over again that there is no place
like Victoria. Her exile has made her very
patriotic.
Minister for Mines Mcßride was billed
to open the new State Geological Museum
on Saturday, but his illness postponed the
key-turning. However, a few interested
people had gathered, and refused to depart.
They stqrmed the back stairs, thereby gain-
ing admittance to the big new room and the
fascinating exhibition. The first impression
is not alluring—rocks, and more rocks tidily
arranged in rows of glass cases, and a grey,
quiet man, with a deep, preoccupied look in
liis eyes, hovering over all the rocks. But a
brief inspection discovers that the rocks are
beautifully colored. It seems as if every-
thing of value in the world can be dug out
of this corner of Australia. Some turquoise,
shining from a setting of black shale, is from
Hedi, on the King River. Red jasper lies
in the rough, a heap of dull blood-color, but
it polishes vividly. There are large deposits
of snowy-looking stuff, diatomaceous earth,
that will make either dynamite or antisep-
tics. Wolfram and sheelite, from beyond
Omeo, will harden steel for ships’ plating.
Dyke, from Dookie, mixed with straw, will
make paper. Glaze, for porcelain and china,
has so far been imported, but at Dunolly
there is felspar in quantities—a glaze that
will knock anything Chinese sky-high. Sand
from Bacchus Marsh (in Dog Trap Gully)
has already been made into beautifully clear
glass. _ The beknighted Clarkes have been
squatting at Sunbury on lots of buried alum.
A sample of phosphate that will electrifv
agriculture when a means of solubility is
found, _ is also on hand. Chemists are now
wrestling with the problem. Then there are
gold, silver and copper, and platinum and
tin. Lead from Buchan sits heavily in its
case. Wonthaggi contributes slack coal com-
pressed into convenient bricks.
The marbles are lovely things. Collector
Ferguson, who has been rooting and dig-
ging and cataloguing for 12 months, says he
has great slabs and hunks of marbles that
cannot be shown for lack of space. Fer-
guson and his chief, Geologist Dunn, have
packed several year’s work of search
into the year. Dunn is busy on a
report about some curious little black
stones which are much discussed. The
question is whether they are bombs
from a local volcano or are heavenly ad-
vents. A few of the marbles have most
plebeian origin. Ferguson calls them back
yard marbles. _ A green, knobby kind was
dug up in Collingwood, and some white and
pale-tinted bits of the classic stone were got
in Richmond, where residential palaces are
packed on blocks of land 30ft. x 10ft., or
thereabouts. Just out of the city, on the
Oakleigh, Black Flats (where ' Caulfield
horses sometimes exercise) there are pig-
ments for every kind of paint, and earth
that Bayley, of the Department, has experi-
mentally turned into beautifully baked and
colored tiles.
Charity shows are booming in Hawthorn.
The next on the list is an amateur attempt
at The Importance of Being Earnest.” Mrs.
Oswald Syme and sister Lucy Rowe are the
handsome parties responsible. The financial
position of some church is the excuse offered
by the co.
. The Lyceum Club, which consists exclu-
sively of blue stockings, and has Mrs. Deakin
for president, was entertained by Mrs. Ed-
ward Bage at Cranford, last week. Freda
Bage is now visiting home before starting
biology lectures at the new Brisbane Uni-
versity.
The golfing women are to have their own
particular innings next week. President
L. K. S. Mackinnon gave his big annual
party at the Sandringham Links, last week,
and the Best People attended in motor loads.
Mrs. Mackinnon is out of the social arena,
for the time being, on account of her sister's
death. In her absence, small daughter Mar-
got played hostess in a short mauve frock
and with fascinating black velvet tails
attached to her lace hat. The Mackinnon
himself wore a grey Tam-o’-Shanter above a
beautiful golfing suit. The day was grey
and blustery, and a marquee billowed and
flapped above the refreshments.
The Babies’ Home bazaar-fete, which was
to have happened at Whernside, the Millers’
Toorak house, on Saturday, October 12, has
been hurriedly advanced one day to October
11. Society, having undertaken to sell
things to itself on the first-named date, sud-
denly remembered that the Caulfield Guineas
outing clashed with its benevolent amuse-
ment, and fell over itself to postpone its
charity. Those in the forefront of the raid
include the Forrest dame, the Gaud May-
oress, Mrs. George Fairbairn, Mrs. Leding-
ham, and Mrs. Roystone Davey. Mrs. Miller
is dashing open the ballroom and drawing-
room, as well as the garden; and Maggie
Stirling and daughter will organise an indoor
concert for the afternoon.
The Whernside baby function is to be
loaded with an opening blessing by Arch-
bishop Clarke. The Fuller lady has pro-
mised to stroll in and buy some things dur-
ing the afternoon. Mrs. Roystone Davey is
not only acting as secretary for this show, but
is also deep in political and social organis-
ing. Her various jobs keep her whizzing
from point to point in her motor, and some-
times the gas engine works up such a speed
that it arrives at its destination before it
starts. She wrenched a suede heel off her
shoe at Mrs. Arthur Sachse’s political crush
last week ; or, perhaps, it dropped off there
just before she arrived and flew ahead of
her.
A sharp attack of heroine-worship wrung
the hearts and pockets of the Athenaeum
Club members, the other day, when they pre-
sented a fine watch bracelet, decked with
diamonds, to the leading lady in the Geoffrey
Syme burglar episode. It isn’t often that a
woman who lays her hand upon a man in
other than the way of kindness scores a
handsome piece of jewellery for her pains.
Mylie Egan, the promising young Bendigo
soprano, for whom three years’ foreign study
is projected, is to have a benefit concert, in
Melbourne Town Hall, after the racing fever
has subsided. A meeting presided over by
Gaud Mayor Davey discussed the matter last
week, and allotted the important jobs of
secretary and treasurer respectively to Mr.
McNamara and Mrs. A. W. A. Fossett.
The Victorian Artists’ dance proved once
more that the art students are nothing if
not ingenious in their picture frivols. Kero-
sene tins were wrought so cunningly into
armor that their own Oil Trust would never
have known them. Brown paper, varnished
and stained, looked so like leather that I
wondered why the manufacturers thereof did
not hurry into the boot business. Hessian
as wide as a billiard table and only sixpence
or so a yard is capable of becoming anything
under a clever brush. I saw bewildering
stuffs that looked as if lonely maidens had
stitched at them in towers for long years
while their lovers were away at the Crusades
skewering perfect strangers with turbans.
It was just hessian every time. The full-
fledged members of the V.A.S. put in a lot
of work; but the toil accomplished by the
students was simply amazing. They painted
acres of the stuff that bags are made of, and
made tapestries to harmonise with the Nor-
man donjon that hid the great organ. Cer-
tainly the steps that led to the keep were
fatted with modern iron railings; but they
were smothered in ancient draperies, while
the flashlight photographer was blazing
away. Mrs. Professor Ewart taught the
pageant people their madrigals, and Miss
Hyams regulated their stepping.
Lohengrin wandered —or swandered —
round the hall, and occasionally bumped
against a bare-footed friar clad in sackcloth.
Iwo dozen jesters, fitted with bells, rushed
from the castle and danced an old English
measure. Valkyrie maidens whooped in a
wavering way whenever they wished to
assemble their set from sitting-out corners ;
foresters _ and she-foresters, in brown and
green, with peacocks’ feathers, made a good,
bare-legged dancing troupe. The girls with
shapely understandings were mostly in the
smart page costume.
The unmasking was left till late. Some
of the leisured youth of the city drifted in
arrayed in mask and domino over ordinary
evening dress. One prettily feminine lad
purposely marred his good looks with a false
nose and detachable moustache. After
theatre hours, Ted Tait, of Her Majesty’s,
steered a motor load of stars in stage dress
to the revel. The management performed
the solemn rite known as supper on the top
floor, and carefully delayed it till the pageant
was past. Then a limited amount of beer
and weak punch made the motley crowd
merry in moderation for the last gay hour
or so.
The pretty son of a suburban medico went
to the Artists’ dance as a harem beauty. At
least, he attempted to go as such ; most of
the time he was adjusting his figure and
gathering himself together. The lashings on
his_ pads seemed to be of the flimsiest de-
scription, and, every now and then, he would
fall away to nothing and have to pick him-
self up again. His final collapse happened
in the ballroom. I don’t know whether he
reconstructed for the fourteenth time, or
went into liquidation at the bar.
The popular “On Our Selection,” at the
King’s, has been attracting a host of those
people who radiate importance and bounding
wealth—things to which the regular honest
patrons are not accustomed. But they will
not stand for too much “dog.” One night
last week, a stout, important man was
ushered into a box by an attendant, who re-
spectfully peeled off his overcoat and left on
tiptoe. The interested gods had been watch-
ing joyfully, and when Stout and Important
ponderously produced opera glasses and con-
descendingly swept their perch, they howled
and whistled an ironic greeting. He then
hurriedly depressed his glasses to the dress
circle, which section of the house remained
comparatively calm during inspection. But
when the splendid being started to telescope
the stalls, the inhabitants rose in a body,
waved their hats and handkerchiefs and
cheered. The people of the King’s have had
a good deal of amusement out of various
splendid and scornful strangers, but the
illustrious person of last week scored a gen-
uine furore. In a manner of speaking, he
paid his dog-tax with interest.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Returned a week or so ago, from Canada and else-
where, Archie, the youngest of the Yalumba Smiths.
He is not enthusiastic over the immigration system
of the Cold Dominion, regarding it more as a blind
acceptance of European rejects than a policy. But
the railways win his most deafening cheers.
The football finals attracted a record crowd to the
Adelaide Oval on Saturday, and the yelling was
something phenomenal. The football revival is re-
sponsible for the recrudescence of the feminine
barracker, a fearful person with a raucous voice and
a penchant for stabbing perfect strangers with hat-
pins. If you are out in quest of “womanly charm
and modesty,” don’t stop to interview the female
barracker. She never has the goods about her; in
fact, it is doubtful if she knows them by sight.
The J. H. Gorses are here again for another brief
visit. The fortunes of Wills and Co. leg-rope him
pretty firmly to W.A.„ but his wife insists on his
periodically transplanting herself to her native State.
The H. C. Caves—she was a Bowman and he a
keen hunting man and M.F.H. for a year or so—are
back from nine months of England. They are stay-
ing at the Grand Central for a week or two before
going back to their station. They did some charm-
ing swimming—I mean motoring—on the famous
Ensrlish country roads.
The Cecil Brays—she also was a Bowman—have
been in Edinburgh with Miss Jean Stirling. They
will have dried themselves and got back here (d.v.)
by November.
Dr. C. Yeatman, of Auburn, an old St. Peter’s
boy, is engaged to Miss Mignon Jacob, of Hackney
Another wedding fixed for the near future is that of
Miss Duff, of Glenelg, to Mr. F. J. Fisher.
Mrs. Frank Downer gave what was universally
acclaimed as a successful garden party at Knights-
bridge on Thursday. By the way, I wonder what an
unsuccessful garden party would be like? A W
tio-n, 1 take it, where someone publicly kicked the host
and a waterspout fell on the guests, and burglars
made off with the family plate, and someone gave
the hostess’s grandfather in charge for pocket-pick
mg. Such fiascos are fortunately rare among our old
nobility. u
Lady Bosanquet and her daughters have imt
dashed off to Marble Hill for a few days’ rest from
an orgy of bazaars and official inspections and founda
tion-stone laying. Without some such resort as
Marble Hill we should have our over-worked vice
regalities dancing nervous breakdowns in the public
streets. Which would be unseemly to a degree and
would also interfere with the traffic. So you see the
State saves handsomely by providjng the big country
The Dudley Haywards are leaving on a year’s trip
to England. They are buying their storm-shoes
macintoshes, etc., now, and will depart in Januarv
or February. And so the house they recently acquired
from the Gordon Ayers will be empty again Mrs
Gordon Ayers is in . London with Mrs. de Wet, better
known in the music world as Miss Gwen Pelly and
talks of putting in some time in India on her wav
home.
Miss Anderson, of the Y.W.C.A., is off to America
for six months to see what further tips she can col-
lect for her work.
The engagement is announced of Miss Barbara
Andrews, daughter of Canon Andrews, to Mr Nut-
ting, who is by trade a cleric.
There is joy among racegoers—not wild hilarity
and delirium, you understand, but the safer, matter-
gratification which one sees in the man who is
paid a ss. debt that has been owing for about four
years. ’The reason is the S.A. Jockey Club has de-
cided, at last, to double-deck its grandstand in the
half-crown enclosure. Also, the smaller of the lawn
stands is to be replaced by a 160 ft. erection in time
for next year’s Adelaide Cup.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


O
r?
-e
iVj»* 4 \* -.H*'»
■■•rf'X-ris
M
M&Vi'TtZ.
V
1
:vM
m
M?;
«•
mm
m
w
mi
■y.^rc-
p
Yi
Kr'ffif-':
/
I-
?*,• /S
I
'-;;f
fi
••^VkV.v;
&
; W
•rivV-Kv i s js ! .'.;«; i*y; •*4
X*
|§§p
»AV >AN i
/
,y.V.
vy/yy.
%*■
|*gggi
Dewar’s Imperial


ASK FOR
♦ ♦ ♦
FRANZ JOSEF
LAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HACKERBRAU
DARK LAGER.
DOCTORS MEDICINE FAILED.
“I had influenza with congestion of the liver, took
the doctor’s medicine for some weeks and got no
relief,” said Mr. John S. Sweetman, Deep Lead,
Vic. “Then- I tried Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
and got immediate relief from the first dose. By the
time I had finished a large bottle the disagreeable
hacking cough and the pains in the chest disappeared
altogether.”*
IMPORTANT CATTLE SALE.
News that the Bushy Park stud Herefords are to
be dispersed comes to us from New Zealand. This
fine herd of cattle was, as most pastoralists will know,
founded upon Mr. James Stuckey’s Te Rangitumau
herd. It has been still further improved from time
to time by importations from the best strains of
Great Britain. Its present owner, Mr. Frank Moore,
is disposing of the whole of these famous cattle by
public auction in April, 1913, absolutely without re-
serve. The Bushy Park herd altogether includes
about 203 female stud Hereford cattle and a con-
siderable number of stud bulls. These magnificent
animals are practically all eligible for entry in the
English Herd Book. There is presented a unique
opportunity for Australian buyers to introduce a new
strain of blood.*
IT DAZZLES THE WORLD.
No. discovery in medicine has ever created one
quarter of the interest that has been caused by Dr-
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds, h
has brought relief in the most hopeless cases, "lien
all else has failed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Veterinary Instruments.
fd
Very latest
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, etc.
WRITE FOR WST.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 Ceorge Street (opp-
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
According to one Smith, of Belfast, if the
British Parliament attempts to give Ireland
a local Legislature such as every Australian
State possesses, the rifles of Ulster “will go
off by themselves.” It was an unlucky
phrase. “The chassepots will go off by them-
selves,” was a proud and frequent remark
made in France just before the Franco-
German war. They didn’t go off by them-
selves. Still they went off. Some of them
went off in the air. Some went off to Ger-
many along with French prisoners. Some
went off to the rear in the general retreat.
And those that went off in the regular way
didn’t hit enough Germans to count. The
man who digs un an ill-omened remark like
that is worse than Poe’s raven —the “never-
more” animal.
THE MENACE OF THE BLACK HAND.
The facts, however, may he left with our readers.
Here is a Government which has just been forced to
declare that nothing appearing in our leading
columns last Friday week criticising the Speaker was
a breach of the privileges of Parliament, turning
round on the eve of a momentous decision by the
Speaker to shake a menacing finger at the press.
S. M. HERALD.
A hastily conceived tableau in which Granny
“stars” herself as the persecuted heroine — who,
in desperation, throws herself on the mercy of a
cold concentrated publicity.
Cabled last week that Pie Commissioner
Reid had been elected a vice-president of
London Sphinx Club, a newspaper adver-
tiser’s waddv which occasionally elects some-
one outside the puffing craft whom it con-
siders “has done signal duty for the Empire.”
Greid is too sound a sleeper for signal duty,
but he has certainly done great dinner
service.
An eminent French anti-militarist and
passive resister, just out of gaol, was given a
great reception the other day in Paris. Four
thousand people were present, and gave
12,000 cheers. Then, somehow, trouble
arose. The most intensely peaceful people
started shooting the less peaceful people for
not being peaceful enough, and brother smote
brother, to make him more brotherly, and
passive resisters trod actively on their best
friends. Few' people are madder than a
passive resister when he really runs amok.
Queensland, Westralia and Victoria show
the same symptoms as N.S.W. in the de-
crease of their railway profits. Queens-
land’s net revenue (out of which interest
has to be paid) fell from £1,167,311 (June,
1911), to £1,115,592 (June, 1912) ; that is
to say, from £4 10s. 2d. per cent, on capital,
to £4 os. 3d. per cent. Westralia’s net
revenue slumped gaily from £627,942 to
£540,627. Victoria’s net income went down
from £1,799,739 to £1,778,893.
N.S.W. Minister Griffith has decided to
send a heap of money abroad to pay for
imported iron bridges on the ground that
they can be made more cheaply in foreign
parts than by local labor. Thus Griffith
pushes up local wages manfully, and expects
great kudos in consequence, and at the same
time he declines to pay the wages because
they are too high. Which raises the ques-
tion : “What shall it profit a man if his
remuneration is 10s. an hour and he doesn’t
get it?” Of course it may be set forth that
the Australian has little experience at build :
ing iron bridges, but how is he to get the ex-
perience if he isn’t allowed to build bridges?
How would Griffith have got a start as a
Minister if, when it was first proposed to
make him a Minister, he had been turned
down on the ground that, never having been
a Minister, he was obviously unfit to be a
Minister ?
A DEVOTED AND PERSISTENT
NURSE.
During the debate on the Maternity Allowance Bill,
two pleas were made on behalf of colored inhabitants.
Needless to say, Bruce Smith was one who paraded
his piebald sentiments before an unsympathetic Par-
liament.
“Heavens I Is there no escape from this perio-
dical persecution? ”
Black, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), has a motion on
the business paper re the need for “national
parks in the interior, for the preservation
of wild beasts, birds, trees, flowers, grasses
and herbs now in danger of becoming ex-
tinct.” It is hereby moved that among the
beasts be included one non-borrowing State
Laborite —a species which seems more liable
to extinction than any other at present above
ground.
The Tasmanian Assembly has rejected the
Government’s proposal to authorise Hobart
municipality to buy out the Private Enter-
prise tramway co. for £210,000. The House
of Ass. lost its temper on two points: (1)
It was alleged that the price was too high;
and (2) it was mentioned that, under the
antiquated town franchise, only one-third of
the citizens would have any voice in the
management of the trams if they were
municipalised. The Government struggles
along with a precarious majority of about
one —that is to say, it has a majority of
one dissatisfied and hostile supporter; and
when a bitter friend deserted it over this
measure the scheme fell through. The Gov-
ernment is now going to negotiate for the
purchase of the trams on better terms, and
if nothing can be done, there are dreams and
visions about an opposition service of motor
’buses or something.
THE INTRODUCTION.
President Yuan Shih Kai’s only difficulties were
financial. — Dr. Morrison.
The new-horn republic makes the acquaintance of
an ancient friend of his older brethren, over
his first bottle.
The N.S.W. Upper House of life nom-
inees, which it is the business of the Labor
party to obliterate, but which it doesn’t seem
to obliterate worth twopence, has been tak-
ing a good many risks of late. The
McGowen Government can hardly go up the
stair to the gilded halls of Fat without
meeting one of .its pet Bills coming down
on its ear.
“Looking Backward” writes :
Senator Simon Fraser,
who viewed the turning of
the dust at Port Augusta,
was one of a firm of
three that built the line
from Port Augusta, 200
miles northward. They took
five years to do the job,
yet it is estimated by King
O’Malley’s roosters that
the 1060 miles between
Kalgoorlie and Port
Augusta will be done in
three years. On this point
I am Didymus. It means
a mile a day—half a mile
at each end; and there’s
nothing to show that it can
be done more than twice
as fast as Fraser and co.
(who worked from one end
only) did their task.
Fraser’s crowd worked
their men nine hours a
day (it was in 1878), and
paid them a bob an hour.
Princely conditions those
in an epoch when men
toiled with ox-like energy for a couple of dollars per
diem.
One of the most unlucky events in the
history of Australian trades-unionism was
the recent strike of municipal employees at
Broken Hill. The Coupcil, which is largely
a Labor body, found itself driven to re-
trench, so it decided to reduce the number
of its employees by one. It was never under-
stood that economy should be illegal or that
an employee’s job should be immortal, yet,
and despite the fact that they were working
under agreements by which they pledged
themselves to regard strikes as wholly out
of the question, the whole municipal force
dropped its shovel, and left the aggregate
backyard of Broken Hill to breed typhoid in
the early summer sun. The strike didn’t
last long, but it is one more of those un-
happy episodes which make the solemn
league and covenant of a trades union look
of just as much value as a Japanese per-
son’s oath.
Professor Rentoul, of Melbourne, has been
clamoring gaily to the Presbyterian brother-
hood upon “race suicide” in Australia; about
how “race murder outweighs the increases
by immigration,” and also about how the ten-
dency to limit population “is more deadly
to the British Empire than would be a long-
continued war.” It is a pity that wild but
well-meaning fossils qf the Rentoul stamp
don’t know more about figures. The popu-
lation of Australia is growing faster by ex-
cess of births over deaths than that of any
other country on earth which keeps records,
save, perhaps, Bulgaria. And as for the
British Empire—well, poor old England and
Wales had 153 people to each square mile in
1801; 175 in 1811; 206 in 1821; 239 in
1831; 273 in 1841; 308 in 1851; 344 in
1861; 390 in 1871; 446 in 1881; 498 in
1891; 558 in 1901; and in 1911 thev had 619
folk to each square mile. From sheer over-
crowding the race is beginning to degenerate
visibly in England, and, if the process goes
on it will soon begin to suffocate as well,
and the place will look like a ship’s fore-
castle. What does Prof. Rentoul want?
Melbourne’s Board
of Shirks has made a
move. It has decided
to refuse to sewer al-
lotments that it con-
siders too small for
human habitations,
and the occupiers of one
whole street in Foots-
cray have been told
they will have to pay
for putting down the
street sewer or go
without. This, of
course, doesn’t tend to
boost up the value of
recently cut up pad-
docks, and the thrifty
landowner who wants
to put three Queen
Anne villas where one
Mary Jane cottage
ought to be is cursing
the Board fervently.
Mrs. Berry, conspic-
uous in the Females’
National League, glee-
fully told a Ballarat
(Vic.) audience the
other day of one
woman in the Wan-
non district who had
said: “Fisher needn’t
think he is going to
stop me from voting.
I am going to vote if I have to
swim to the poll.” Probably Fisher had
never heard of the lady in question, and as a
matter of fact, she is given precisely the
same facilities for going to the poll as every
other woman in Wannon. The natural in-
ference is that the Females’ Irrational
League had been telling this simple creature
that the Prime Minister was responsible for
the floods.
Practically every member of the present
N.S.W. Government, but especially Griffith
and Trefle, is now an open and unabashed
apostle of borrowing—large, swift, and
abundant borrowing. Yet this Government
was elected on its solemn pledge or word of
honor —whatever that might be worth —that
it was going to reduce borrowing, and to
splash about a modified amount of loan
money only on works that would pay, from
the beginning, full interest and sinking fund.
There is something magnificent about the
brassy effrontery with which the McGowen
Ministry repudiates any of its principles
which don’t suit its inclinations, and brags
of its apostasy as if the Iscariot business
were a special virtue.
“ J.”: If proof were needed of the hopeless
provincialism of the Sydney press, the same
might be supplied by a consideration of its
reports of the turning of the first sod of the
transcontinental line at Port Augusta. Here
was a function as epoch-making as any that
has occurred in Australia in the last 10
years. All sorts of prominent folk speech-
ified, and all sorts of arresting and suggest-
ive things were said. Yet none of the papers
gave more space to the affair than they
would to a bolting cab episode. or a street
row between a couple of inebriates —which
is to say, about half a dozen lines. A prem-
iere at a third-rate theatre gets half a col-
umn in a prominent position; the transit
premiere of a continent, so to speak, is
accorded a stick of type in a stray corner
among the advts.
THE NEW COMET.
It is reported from Paten that some observer?
there discovered a new comet on Wednesday one
Thursday nights of last week. —Maoriland item.
The Bulletin dreamt the other night that it
saw the comet too, and it 'teas something like
this.
THE GENTLE JESTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AVhen Deakin tells the Women’s. League
His drollest little stories,
The dames, forgetting their fatigue,
Are gay and frisky Tories;
Their hearty laughter rends the air,
Their smiles are sweet as honey ;
It is delightful to be there
When Mr. Deakin’s funny.
. No grim and scornful critic he,
No snorting “tush”- and “pish”-er,
He cuts his jokes in boyish glee
At foolish Andrew Fish-er.
He gives the girls a merry glance
Whene’er he speaks of Money,
Or mentions Government finance.
Oh, Mr. Deakin’s funny.
He gaily hints at projects rash
On which the Caucus fritters
Immense, uncertain sums of cash
(Loud cheers and storms of titters).
Perchance he turns a household word
To purpose frankly pun-ny;
Then fifty fat old souls are heard
Protesting—“He is Funny l”
AVhat joy, what joy to hear him say,
His face with humor beaming,
“The Government has lost its way”—
Which sets his hearers screaming.
And if he speaks of “tart replies,”
Or calls a rabbit “bunny,”
The Leaguers mop their streaming eyes
And gurgle, “He’s too funny.”
The Government, there’s not a doubt,
Despite false Labor rumor,
Will take the knock and totter out,
Expelled by Deakin’s humor.
The land, now dark ’neath Caucus Rule,
Will soon be bright and sunny,
So pungent is the ridicule
Of Deakin, when he’s funny.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


A Handy Can
ibeoilltet lubncafcMjf
r<-c
ajr' — ***
Mobiloil
“A”
(Nedium body)
VACUUM OIL COnPANY
This Brass Stoppered
Lip prevents waste.
This Strong Handle gives
a comfortable “grip.”
Refuse the Can if
this Seal is Broken.
Gargoyle” Mobiloil
«A ” «
BB” “B
«d» «r»
Are now obtainable in the new 4 gallon can—
-2 cans in a case. 3d. per gallon cheaper than
1 gallon packages.
“ The Oil that Lubricates most.’*
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
x:
C. K
m
RANCG.
“ —And He Ordered
by Post”
Simply wrote for Patterns—Picked his fancy from
the Big Range of Guaranteed Materials received by
return filled in the easy Self-measurement Form
sent him and forwarded it with the Pattern selected
—and in 6 Days time received his Suit, made up with
every detail in accordance with his instructions—
each Garment Perfectly Fitting—Fashionably Cut
and Superbly Finished.”
These thoughts come quite naturally to the Man,
who, living many miles away from the big Cities,
sees for the first time a “ Lincoln-Stuart Tailored-
by-Mail Suit”—But the fact remains that we are
daily making Suits by Mail for Australian Men in
every part of the Commonwealth—from North Cape
in Queensland right round and across the Continent
to the furthest points the Mail reaches—and
We Can Suit You
no matter how far away you are—We guarantee it
—lf we fail in any way we will refund your money in
full whatever price you pay from—
50s to 105 s
Write for Patterns (Post Free) and a Copy of ou*
Mail Order Catalog
sst,
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne
* 'cftCail-Order Outfitters
®!
'A
scafr
Theatrical
Caricatures,
By HARRY JULIUS,
V-
vi t h
ORIGINAL. ANECDOTES
by CLAUDE, McHAT.
Post Free 1/1.
gdf
A most Novel and Amusing Publication
dealing witb the Theatre in Australia.
HARRY JULIUS, whose Theatrical Caricatures appear regularly in the
Sydney Bulletin, has contributed 220 drawings to the bulky volume. Ilis
caricatures of Melba, Irving, Asche, Sousa, Nell Stewart, Lauri, and Bertie
Wright display amusingly all mannerisms, while his sketches of brand Opera,
Comic Opera, Drama, Melodrama, and Vaudeville have a satirical quality that
always raises a smile. The pictures are worth the shilling alone. Claude McKay,
whose position as press agent in Theatrical Firms in the Commonwealth has
enabled him po be constantly in touch with all the leading players and visiting
celebrities, has written brightly of the Stage and its humor. His anecdotes of
Melba, Irving, Hugh Ward, George Musgrove, Nellie Stewart and Paderewski are
gems of humor. The volume is a memorable one, and is the humorous classic of the
Australian Stage.
Open tile BooK Anywhere
and you are sure of a laugh.
OVER 220
CARICATURES OF
POPULAR PLAYERS.
PAGES OF
AMUSING
ANECDOTES.
ONmiHS 3NO
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
476 GEO.'.iE ST., SYDNEY.
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Pat he’s Home
Cinematograph
List of Subjects Available for Sale or Exchange
and to Subscribers to the Circulating Library.
The list given is not complete. There are many other subjects, and the list
is being added to automatically by from 20 to 30 every month.
ALL PATHE HOME CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS ARE NON-INFLAMMABLE.
HISTORICAL.
Coronation of Napoleon I.
SCIENTIFIC.
Mediterranean Jelly Fish.
Life and metamorphosis of the Dragon Fly.
HUNTING.
Hunting the Giraffe.
Boar Hunt.
Bear Hunt.
Walrus Hunt.
Whale Fishing.
Elephant Hunting for Ivory.
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
Japanese Types.
A Japanese Marriage.
Coppelia.
Italian Dances.
Head-dress of Historical Periods.
A Marriage in Brittany.
TRAVEL.
Niagara Falls.
The Ganges.
Through the Old Egyptian Temples.
Carnival at Nice.
A Crocodile Farm.
The Great lee Sea.
Sea Effects at Monte Carlo.
Venice.
Rapids of the River Magdapis.
BIBLICAL.
Moses Saved from the Waters.
The Prodigal Son.
FAIRY.
Fairy Spring.
Pierrot’s Nightmare.
Lightning Changes.
Magic Flowers.
The Golden Beetle.
Trip Round a Star.
Arabian Wizard.
COMIC.
Rest Impossible.
Modern Sculpture.
His First Cigar.
The Plank.
A Cure for Baldness.
The Conjurer.
Jim. Out Hunting.
Tom Thumb, Flirt.
An Unskilful Skater.
A Victim of Hanging.
Max, Equilibrist.
The Haunted Hotel.
The Dancing Pig.
VARIETY.
Cat Studies.
Jiu-Jitsu.
Grecian Dance.
Japanese Equilibrists.
Owners of Machines who have not had information
lating Library of Moving Picture Films, and Pathe’s
should write for booklet giving full particulars.
respecting Pathe’s Circu-
Cinematograph Exchange,
Those desiring information respecting Pathe’s Home Cinematograph should
write at once for Booklet. This machine makes its own light and can be used
anywhere, in town or country, without any risk whatever. The light costs nothin*
and the films are absolutely non-inflammable. ®
PATHE FRERES,
27 ALLIANCE BUILDINGS,
48 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and Post At Once.
PATIIh FRERESy 1/8 Queen Street f Melbourne .
Please send me free catalogue of the Pathehome Cinematograph.


810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 Geqrge Street,
Sydney.
WONDERFUL RESULTS.
CONSUMPTION FEARED. TERRIBLE
SUFFERING. LADY .WRECK OU
FORMER SELF. FOUND DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
EFFECT MARVELLOUS CHANGE.
“About twelve months ago,” writes Sara
Drysdale, 338 Bourke Street, Sydney, “I
suffered from indigestion very badly. I also
thought, like my sister, I was developing
signs of consumption. As a remedy I
thought I would use Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and on the recommendation also of
my son I took them, three at a dose,
and afterwards reduced the dose to one
each night. As the result I found that there
was a wonderful improvement. Whereas _ I
got terribly thin before, I began to gain
flesh, and all symptoms of indigestion have
since left me. They, have improved me all
round. I was a terrible sufferer at the time
I speak of, and the J shooting pains in the
back and loss of appetite reduced my health
until I became a wreck of my former self,
but thanks to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
I have not a moment’s illness, and can do
my work with pleasure. _ You can use this
if you desire for publication.”
g
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservative^.
y/l\\s
E. KESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Cover nor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COQLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Each of four sires has two promising re-
presentatives in next Saturday’s A.J.C. Derby, anc
even if all those eight first acceptors do not go to the
post, Ayr Laddie, Malster, Wallace and 1' lavus will-
bar accidents, boils-over, and suchlike acts of God
make a great effort to add the gorgeous prize to the
pile of stakes already won. At time of writing, ana
with final acceptances not due till d hursday after-
noon Ayr Laddie has Cider (from Praleen) and
Cagou (from Tartar) in the list. Malster’s two are
Symetris (from Symmetry) and Bellara (fiom
(Amera). Wallace has Wolowa and Perdita, from
The Infanta and Eloping Lady respectively. The
hopes of the line of Flavus are Aunfer (from Queen-
bird) and Buneewa (from Bonding). In the same
stable as the last-named is Burn (Miner—Black
Bess), winner of the recent Rosehill seven-furlong
Guineas, but Buneewa beat him at Randwick last
season, and on form can beat him again when re-
quired to do so. Anyhow, the other Plavus one,
Aurifer, should beat either or both in the Derby.
Big events are so often won by the sick and the
halt that Victorian colt Wolawa claims support on
account of his recent dental and pedal troubles.
Symetris won the Hawkesbury Guineas, one mile, on
Saturday, but Aurifer, Cider and other good ’uns
were absent, and, besides, fillies have very rarely
annexed the azure ribbon. The same fact is against
Perdita, though Wallace’s daughter looks a stayer.
Cider has been doing the most Derby-like work, and
in some big event or other this spring should run
away frofn the curse of his sister, Apple Pie, the mare
of many minor places. As usual, a lot depends on
how the race is run. If the rivals, Aurifer and
Cider, cut each other’s throats in front from the
start, a late dash by something behind will probably
pip both on the post. And if the field loafs for a
quarter-mile or more, as it often does, the ensuing
charge upon the'post will, likely as not, result m the
iudge having to consult an oculist before and after
giving a verdict. Perhaps Aurifer will score the
A.J.C. Blue Ribbon, for Flavus and Fred Merton,
with Cider, Perdita and Cagou closest to him, after
which, Cider should annex the more difficult Vic.
Derby at headquarters.
***■*
“The Mug”: Since the A.J.C. Epsijm
weights appeared there have been four first favorites
for Saturday’s Mile dash. Havocorn was the first
popular pick, but gave way to Popinjay, who, in
turn, w#s outed by Cisco. And this week the list
is headed by the resurrected Westralian, Jolly Beggar,
who on Saturday won the mile race at Hawkesbury,
as mentioned above. He won it in Imin. SSisec.,,
with 81b. more than his Epsom burden. Blairgour,
however, would have won the race had his rider not
foolishly eased a bit, and, like Lot’s wife, looked
round, when well in front and near the post. Then
he turned to a pillar of mud. Other Epsom candidates
well cared for by the layers have been Sunlike, Vol-
sloane, Gigandra and, loli. Consequently, the race is
voted “very open,’’ which means that no one nag
sticks out as one of those paper and newspaper certs
which generally go down, and on which we have all
dropped good legal tender. In such a predicament
the average winning weight, brethren, for an event
will sometimes point to the winner. Well, 27 Ep-
som Handicaps have been run, and their aggregate
of winning weights is 210 st. 81b. That gives 7st.
111 b. and a fraction as the average winning weight
for the Epsom. But nothing is handicapped at 7st.
111 b., so it is necessary to go next door above__and
below At time of writing that procedure, collects
Hartfall at 7st. 121 b. on the one side, and Malthusian,
Blairgour and Sandbatli, at 7st. 101 b., on the other.
Tons of Westralian gold dust are reported to be in-
vested on Jolly Beggar for the Epsom, and on the
Epsom-Metrop. double, Jolly Beggar and Artesian.
They are in the one stable, Jolly Beggar belonging
to “Blue Spec’’ Connolly, and Artesian to J. O.
Peterson. Also, J. “Baron” is said to have backed
his Sunlike and Duke Foote to win a fabulous sum.
Other stable doubles have received similar advertise-
ment. Patrick Galilee gathers his richest harvest
from the public mania for backing Spring Doubles,
and newspapers never fail to aid and abet that form
of robbery.- To this gambler’s way of thinking,
Volsloane, with 9st. 61b., and one of Sculley s
Lochano (7st. 81b.) or Cisco (Bst. 71b.)—will fight
out the Epsom, and one of the same pair has as
good a chance in Monday’s Metrop. as anything, no
matter how much additional gloom may be shed upon
that event by Saturday’s running. #
Up at Clarendon, where oranges grow,
the Hawkesbury Racing Club drew a mighty crowd
on Saturday, to see the final display of form on
which the fatuous punter will decide how to skin
Christian Iscariot at Randwick’s big meeting, com-
mencing on Saturday. The supreme event was ot
course, the historic Guineas, the 10 entrants of which
are all up to the neck in the big events of the future.
The public packed its coin enthusiastically on Careel
and Cagou, at twos and fours respectively, and
sprinkled the dregs of its pockets over a couple of
others, and ignored the tempting 12 to one offered
against Symetris. But that 12 to one chance upset
the apple-cart, and beat Careel easily by three
lengths. Cagou ran third last, or thereabouts. So
passeth hard-earned splosh!” as the noble Roman
said. A week before, at Rosehill, the Rosehill
Guineas ended in a boil-over for Burri; so the Lord
knows how the punter will go about the skinning
of Abraham Smith in the £5OOO Derby on Saturday.
It’s a lean year among the three-year-olds, and things
are mixed.
As a guide for the Epsom Handicap the
Rowley Mile provided an interesting revelation.
Jolly Beggar, the prad which is at the head of the
illicit betting lists in- those Sydney dens where the
light of Yarrington has not yet penetrated, was so
heavily weighted with coin that Patrick Galilee s
odds against its chance of winning stopped at
five to four. But the Jolly one was equal to the
occasion, and gathered in the wagers, the prize, the
applause, and the confidence of the public, and all
others. His bundle in the Epsom is Bst. 41b. —eight
pounds less than he carried on Saturday ; so, provided
the brutes are honest and the humans who control
them square (nobody ever heard of them being other-
wise), Jolly Beggar’s chances look rosy. He holds
the Australian seven-furlong record (lmin. 25 2-5
sec.), which he put up at Perth . (W.A.), so he
should not find the big mile handicap beyond him.
Owner Connolly is said to have risked a mountain
of gold on his stable double, Jolly Beggar and
Artesian ; and if the first leg gets home there will be
many terrified Bags next week.
Lady Medallist, missing all her A.J.C. en-
gagements, has gone to Victoria with a view to win-
ning another Caulfield Cup, seemingly, not to men-
tion the Melbourne Cup in the event of her failing
to get penalised for a victory in the earlier race.
Lady Medallist’s chance of doing what Paris did long
years ago is easily summed up. The mare carried Bst.
51b. in last Caulfield Cup, and came clean away from
the field in the run home. Another 121 b. would not
have stopped her then, it was thought, and her weight
this year is 9st. 31b.—only 121 b. more. Assuming
that Lady Medallist, as a six-year-old, can repeat her
last year’s form, and that the field will be no stronger
than before, the excellence of her chance is question-
able only on the supposition that, being a rather
light-waisted mare, she will be more affected by the
extra 121 b. than her friends suppose.
At time of writing, a lot of Victorian
punters hang on tenaciously to the hope that Blair-
gour, the inbred son of Wakeful, will strike form on
Saturday, and run away with the Epsom Handicap
in the way that made him such a red-hot favorite
for the Newmarket Handicap 18 months ago. It was
in the Newmarket struggle that Blairgour blew out,
never to go again, thus far. But within the two or
three weeks previously he had looked invincible. He
flew the 51 furlongs for the Oakleigh Plate, and then
he led from end to end of the Caulfield Futurity
Stakes with Bst. 121 b. up. Broadsword and Comedy
King ran second and third in the Futurity, and both
of them did great deeds soon afterwards. For in-
stance, Broadsword ran third for the Newmarket,
wherein the hot favorite blew out so strangely, and
then went to Sydney and won the Doncaster. Blair-
gour will have to run a few more bad races e’er his
old Melbourne worshippers will withdraw their faith.
The memory of his Futurity Stakes victory dies hard.
By the way, Popinjay captured the same race last
year, and the Melbourne man in the street mostly
talks Popinjay or Blairgour for the Epsom.
The Adelaide Hunt Club has set the
veteran Seth Ferry, formerly M.F.H., remin'seing
to the Register about the first Cup, run for in 1869.
It was on the old Tliebarton course, where the S.A.
Jockey Club of that era had temporarily thrown in
its towel. Adam Lindsay Gordon rode the favorite,
Lancelot, owned by Blackmore (afterwards Clerk of
Federal Parliament). Ebenezer Ward, another mem-
ber of the State Parliament, also rah (or the horse
beneath him did), and laid Ferry 100 to two against
his Gipsy Girl winning the double, Cup and Hunters’
Steeple. Ferry took the same from three others, in-
cluding Charles Mann (afterwards Attorney-General)
and won the lot. Pat Auld (of the McDouall Stuart
expedition), who died last month, was another rider,
but Ferry and Ward and one besides are now the
only survivors of the big field.
“Query” : As a Victorian in N.S.W., I was
staggered the other day to read in a Sydney news-
paper that the “outer gate” for a Saturday race
meeting had been sold to a Mr. Solomon for £ 800-
odd. I would ask why—in the sacred name of the
Profit! —is it necessary to drag an outside speculator
into a racing club’s toll-gate business? True, the
V.R.C. does a little in this way as regards one or
two carriage gates at Flemington, but the amount
of money paid for the privilege of toll-collecting is
small, and the probable profit or possible loss on the
purchase is hardly worth worrying about. The outer
gate at Randwick is a very big consideration. The
speculator pays 17,000 shillings, or thereabouts, for
his chance of making a big profit on the outer gate
receipts at an ordinary Saturday meeting. Is the
same system of farming the gate adopted at a big
four days’ meeting, and if so, why doesn’t the club
manage its own turnstiles instead of dedicating- them
to the glory of Solomon? Of all the gamblers on
the Sydney turf, Solomon strikes an amazed stranger
as being the one who is backing the deadest bird, or
betting on the surest wicket. Is he an individual
or a syndicate ? Is the job of managing outer-gate
collections reckoned so arduous that the club is too
tired to undertake it? Anyhow, there can be no
good reason for selling the job. The J.O.W. Com-
bine, or the proprietary of any other well-organised
show, would be glad to supply all the necessary labor
and do the gate business on a small commission.
The great £lOOO international tug-of-war
commenced at the Mclntosh Stadium (Sydney), on
Saturday night last week, and proved an interesting
brand of struggle. The scene of the conflict was ; a
long, narrow platform running north and , south
across the centre of the Stadium. An indicating
machine stood in the centre, with a dial facing
every side of the enclosure. This indicator was ad-
justed to show the movement of the rope to one-
eighth of an inch. The teams lie down on their
sides, right and left of the rope alternately, with
their feet resting against the cleats. And then, at
the word “go!” they haul for their lives. Each
captain stands at the end of the line and watches
the rival team, and with his hands behind his back
signals to his team when and how to pull. The
daddy captain was he of the Scottish team, and he
handled his men like a solid machine. The Carlton
Brewery team, which has done such wonders, had
the unfair advantage of 1 pulling on short, six-inch
cleats. They did not let go of the rope or change
their grin upon it as the others had to. They just
worked themselves backward with their feet on the
short cleats, and the result was such a huge advan-
tage that nothing up to time of writing has been
able to stand against them. The mighty Heckenberg
family made a big pull with Fitzpatrick’s Australian
team, but, owing to lack of training and faulty
skippering, was beaten by 9in. after a desperate
struggle. At the end of Monday night the Inter-
national struggle had seen Ireland, Italy and Sweden
killed off. Scotland, Russia and Holland were run-
ning neck to neck with two points each. On
Monday night Fitzpatrick’s Australian team, which
bad defeated the Heckenbergs on Saturday, went
down in its turn before the Victorian team, lfed by
Captain Smith.
A record crowd of 54,463 swarmed into
the Metropolitan Cricket Ground on Saturday, to see
the grand final of Vic. League hoofball for 1912. Of
these about 10,000 were M.C.C. members, 4000 came
in on South Melb. F.C. tickets, 3500 on Essendon
do., 1000 on Geelong do., 500 on complimentary
tickets, and about 2000 were boys, who paid half-
fare. Total, £1950 2s. 6d., nearly £2OO more than
the largest sum hitherto recorded. And the game
wasn’t worth a quarter of the price. Both Essendon
and South were over anxious. A great part of
the time they dug their hoofs in the soil and
hung back in the harness. The ’Dons opened out a
bit and the Southerners indulged in some concerted
rushes in the last ouarter, but, by that time, the
game was gone so far as South was concerned, and
it was only striving to avert disgrace. In brief,
the ’Dons were faster, cleaner and surer than their
opponents, but any team-such as ’Roy or ’Wood—
that would play its ordinary, systematic game, with-
out bustling itself, would have made hacks of the
pair of them. The marking was poor, with the excep-
tion of that of the backs on either side, and the goal
sbootmg marked by stupid selfishness and awful in-
effectiveness. There was no outburst of unseemly
violence, but the clenched fist was seen at times,
and the elbow-iab frequently got in its deadly work.
Details are hardly worth recording. ’Don had an 11-
point lead at half-time, and, making the third quarter
all its own, added 11 points to South’s two. Start-
ing the last term thus, 20 points in arrear, the
Southerners had to do some strenuous dashes or die,
and the dashes weren’t there. So the uproar ended
with Essendon as Premiers for ’12 —with five goals
17 behinds to South’s four goals nine behinds.
The Ass. grand final at North Melbourne
also provided a record crowd and “gate”—32,ooo and
£405 respectively—and again the game wasn’t worth
the candle ; also, another Essendon stood the “minor
premiers” on their heads. As in the League game,
the ’Dons, by strenuous rather than skilful play,
gained a small lead, which they nurtured and cher-
ished till, at half-time, it amounted to five little
points. Reproducing their League brothers’ tactics,
they made the third quarter their own, reaching the
last spell with 50 points to ’Scray’s 21. The last
term was merely a matter of staving off disaster.
’Scray died hard, but a five-goal lead is too. much for
any team to wipe off in a close and hard-fought
final, and when the bell finally rang down the cur-
tain on the season’s comedy, Essendon was still 21
points ahead —62 to ’Scray’s 41. During thV game
David McNamara, who, three years ago, left St. Ivilda,
in a hurry and a violent temper, to .ioin Essendon,
kicked three goals, making his tally for the season
108, a record that is likely to stand for many years.
Many of these goals were booted, at the rate of a
dozen per afternoon, in matches against hopeless
teams like Melb. City and P’ran, but as other kickists
had similar easv chances, the record, such as. it is,
stands. Mac is 29, weighs 14st. 51b., and is 6ft.
2in. long.
* * * *
On the Australian football ground, Syd-
ney, on Saturday, another Rawson Cup was the bone
of a mighty contention, under Australian rules, be-
tween Sydney and Paddington. The referee who was
to have held the packs in the leash sprained his
ankle, and was unable to run for his life, so a sub-
stitute took on the job. It was beyond him, and the
teams lost their tempers, and the game became more
willing than scientific. At half-time another referee
was discovered and placed in charge, and he set to
work to smooth things out. But the blood of the
clans was up, and the game continued to be unduly
savage, with the result that injuries . were numerous
and varied. One gentleman sustained a broken
collar-bone. Sydney led from the jump, and gave an
exhibition of pace and combination that staggered
the minor premiers very badly. Sydney has held the
Rawson Cun for two years .running, and if it could
win this time it would be the permanent possessor.
So, naturally, it played its darnedest —and so did
Paddington. But vim and energy are useless when
opposed by just as much of the same sort of thing
combined with disciuline and combination, and Pad-
dington’s chances slowly withered away under the
deadly kicking of the Sydney feet till, at the final
bell-ringing, the score was 43 points to 15. A
crushing defeat. So Sydney retains the last of the
Cups donated by dead and gone Harry Rawson.
Balmain is walking the diamond ridge of
fame in the Soccer competitions, its B team having
raged right through two seasons without being once
defeated. Thereby it has annexed for all time the
coveted Association Cup, and has a right to carry it
into eternity. Wanted, now, a philanthropist to put
up another Cup to take the place of that which Bal-
main team has permanently annexed. West Sydney
was runner-up in this competition, and was, prac-
tically, the only other team which had a show of
gathering in the mug. The scores of the two clubs
stand thus : - . .
Balmain B —l 4 played, 13 Won, lost none, drawn
one; points 27.
West Sydney—l 4 played, 12 won, lost one, drawn
none ; points 25.
In the Rawson Cup Soccer competition Balmain is
also on velvet. It holds the utensil, and if it can
defeat Sydney next Saturday it will take permanent
possession of the well-beloved old Viking’s drinking
machine ; and it sets more store on Harry Rawson’s
Cun than it does on the Association Jug. Sydney and
Balmain A are dead level on points. Only Death can
decide between them, and one of them must die on
Saturday next. Both these teams stamped their op-
ponents flat on Saturday, Sydney overthrowing New-
town by two goals to one, and Balmain routing the
Navy by four to nil. So, on the form, Balmain’s
chances of annexing both the coveted Cups in the
same season are rosy.
First-grade cricket started in Sydney on
Saturday. Weather divine, wickets excellent, and
players in, apparently, good fettle; and, although
no century graced the perfect afternoon, some solid
scoring was done in the aggregate. University, out
at Waverley, fell on the local men, and banged out
369 for the loss of seven wickets. Glebe put
up 231 in spite of the struggles of Balmain, and
Sydney made 215 against Paddington at Rushcutter’s
Bay. Paddington found time to knock up 22 without
losing a stick before time ran out. Central Cumber-
land, otherwise Parramatta, heaped up 140 against
North Sydney, which replied with 172 for the loss
of one wicket only. A sharp reply indeed. Burwood
accumulated 197 against Middle Harbor, which made
a rotten start by losing six wickets, for 52. Peter-
sham brought capital into the country by scoring 196
off the bowling of Gordon, which retorted with 54
for the loss of two wickets. Among the individual
performers the best were Single, of University, who
got within two of the century. Rogalsky, of Sydney,
carried his bat for 89, and two other timber carriers
were Cooper and Moore, of North Sydney, who did
themselves proud with 84 and 68 respectively. Among
the bowlers the best were Dunain, of Burwood, who
took three for 16 ; Shortland, of Gordon, who got
seven for 62 ; Hordern, of North Sydney, whose bag
was six for 61 ; McCloy, of Paddington, with three
for 30; and Noble, of the same club, with four for
49.
* * * *
Young J. W. Hearne was right up to his
best Australian form in the two “Gentlemen” v.
Players’ matches this English season. The youngster
scored 260 runs in four innings, carrying his bat
three times. Also, he bowled usefully, taking eight
wickets in all. On Ena-lish wickets Hearne can do
a bit as a googler. Talking of slow cricket, London
Referee says: “Sussex v. Lancashire was a melan-
choly ceremonial. Vine occupied three hours in mak-
ing 45. In smin. under two hours, Sussex compiled
80 runs before lunch, afterwards maintaining much
about the same rate of ‘speed.’ The long and the
short of it is that people will not go to see this sort
of thing.” The short and the long of it is, that
cricket, to maintain its grip on intelligent public
interest, must be played under conditions which will
provide a three to one on chance of any county or
jnter-State or Test match being played out in two
long days. It has got to be made a strenuous game,
in which the spectacular incidents and surprises come
closer together, instead of being strung out at inter-
vals so wide apart that the average ’ “enthusiastic
supporter” is apt to be either nodding on a bench,
or boosing at the bar when the occasional sensational
incident occurs. Cricket has got to be played as
though time were a matter of some importance to all
concerned, and Beer were not the necessary brain food
of its chief exponents and supporters. Something of
the nervous force of lawn tennis must be introduced
into it, by, adding height and width to the wickets,
and taking a heavy discount off the score of the side
which doesn’t amass a given number of runs in a
stated time. Why not penalise the slow goers? It
is done in horseracing. The full stake offered to the
Champion Stakes winner is subieet to the condition
that three miles is covered in 5f minutes.
East Torrens (Adelaide) cricket d u^
“up against it” this season, after being very ea y
top in District matches last year. “Solly "lix
removed to Sydney and Crawford to Glenelg l w n
can do with him, having been bottom on the w
laide list last season). Mayne and Whitty will n
be back till Christmas. Crawford, who, since leav e
St. Peter’s College, has been in the Cricket Associ -
tion’s office, has now been appointed coach to w
young players. South Aus., after winning the ome
under O’Connor’s coaching, did not win a
match last season, and aims at improving things.
Country matches and bowling competitions are t
be revived, and the second team of each club is - to
be given a match with the first. If Hazlitt settles
in Adelaide as master of St. Peter’s College, tm.
State should have the makings of a good team.
Sydney Sailing Club and the Flying
Squadron combined on Saturday to open the sailing
season in style, and succeeded admirably. ltaces
were started promptly and in a most business-like
manner, and run off excellently. The wind was trom
the E.N.E., and well behaved. The important race
of the day was that of the 18-footers. The umpire
got on the warpath early, and Mona started the
season by being disqualified. Two new boats, Kismet
and Desdemona, made first appearances, but tailed
to set the harbor on fire. Still, they have plenty ot
time. A rather pretty race resulted in Golding beat-
ing the fleet, followed by Scot, Livonia, Nimrod and
the new boat Kismet. These five divided £2O among
them, so, after all, it must be admitted that Kismet
did fairly well on its maiden trip.
N.S.W. bowling team, which went clamor-
ing through Queensland, came back over the border-
line, tanned to the color of mahogany, and walloped
black and blue. Not one solitary win was registered,
even against the last, least and most humble Queens-
land club. Still, the tour was a moral success. In
fact, The Bulletin lias it on the word of one of
the returned escapees that every game was practically
a victory, and the defeat was purely technicaL
The Victorian cycling difficulty has been
settled by the formation of a Road Board, which will
in future have charge of all matters connected with
road racing in Victoria. The Board will consist of
four representatives of the Cycle Traders, four of the
Inter-Club Cycling Association, and three from the
League. The new body will be under the suzerainty
of the League, but, apparently, the trade interest is
going to have a big voice in the actual management
of it. And, although this case may be an excep-
tion, the influence of the trade and stock house is
almost always evil.
* . * * *
An extract from an Amurkan paper about
this “Cafe de Champion,” which needs no comment:
“An extremely witty commentary on the opening
of Jack Johnson’s sporting place in Chicago appeared
the other day in the Minneapolis Record, penned by
John Ritchie, a clever local writer on sporting topics.
After first printing the despatch telling about the
silver cuspidors, the handsome oil paintings, the
silver and gold bar and the souvenir pictures of
himself with the tribute to his mother, Bitehie
writes: —-
“ ‘All of this grandeur-and wealth of Golcpnda is
possessed by. a youthful dinge, who a few years ago
looked upon the copping of a mess of pork and beans
as a modern equivalent to the miraculously bestowed
manna, and ham hocks and cabbage as little less than
a personal bestowal of a special Providence.
“ ‘ Tis a far cry from the hump and rattle of the
brake beam and the uncertain findings of the free
lunch to personally monogrammed cuspidors at
867.50 per cusp. And “real handpainted oil Paint-
ings” in the entertainment room is stepping along a
bit as well. We imagine that among the handpainted
treasures of art may be found copies of “Desde-
mona and Othello,’’ “Cupid and Psyche,” and that
time-honored and conventional bar-room canvas, “Paul
and Virginia,” with Paul done as a Senegambian
prince eloping with the accepted Virginia.
“‘We commend the champion for bis restraint in
publishing only 32 portraits of himself in the pro-
gramme. Such modesty is most becoming to a man
wbo has reached the pinnacles of fame occupied by
Mr. Johnson.
“ ‘We cannot find heart to gibe the homily directed
toward the unoffending Mrs. Tiny Johnson —but why
the discrimination against Old Man Johnson? Why
do we never hear anything of the father of the
Chicago Polyphemus? We know not whether he be
living or has passed on, but taking the son for a
sample of the sire, it is a 100-1 shot that few mokes
there were who ever sought to tamper with the lock
on the chicken house door when Old Man Johnson
was around.
“‘The Caf6 de Champ., though, seriously consid-
ered, stands as an inspiration to the obscure and am-
bitious young scrappers of the land. Mr. Johnson
has demonstrated that the Elysian Fields, the Isle
of Calypso, the gardens of Hesperides and the
Golden Apples are attainable. He has served his time
and generation as a living exemplification that the
Alps can after all be scaled, and also —as the Sauk
-Centre sweet girl graduate is wont to proclaim—
beyond the Alps lies Italy.’ ”
London Daily News, which belongs to
Cadbury, the cocoa millionaire ' manufacturer and
peace-at-any-price Quaker, gives no countenance or
space to sports into which the gambling element may
enter. Cricket, however, comes up to the high
standard of Cadbury journalistic morality, but the
scribes employed to deal with it in the columns of
the D.N. turn out some very poor copy. For in-
stance, one of them, describing a match between
Kent and Somerset, perpetrated this remarkable
bull: “'Woolley adopted the policy of tempting the
batsmen to hit the rope with which to hang them-
selves.” ■ ■*


fdg
Clace Kid
balmoral
2\
dISO
18 r t and
The Marshall Shoe
uiifh virile individuality]
and good fasfe
MARSHALL SHOE
CO.
LTD.
RICHMOND, VIC.
“DANCERS OF THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE”
by MJSS SYBIL ARUNDALE
'
Read her Bright Article,
with NUMEROUS
PHOTOGRAPHS of
WELL-KNOWN
$ DANCERS $
in
• • •
The Lone Hand
for October.
PRICE 6d.
Increase Your Strength!
ii
HI
It means much to you, and it’s easy to obtain.
Increased strength means better health, greater energy,
improved digestion, and the maximum enjoyment of the pleasures
of living.
When you follow correct principles for increasing your strength,
you build up the whole of your muscular system.
The first step is to develop the internal muscles, which have
such important work as regulating the actions of the heart,
lungs, stomach, liver, intestines, etc.
Get those unseen muscles toned up, and the surface muscles
will rapidly increase in proportion.
The surest and safest way to improve your unseen, muscles is
by means of health exercises —exercises which drive a copious
supply of rich, virile blood throughout your system—nourishing
your whole body with oxygen—expelling waste tissue —building
up new tissue—benefiting every part of your frame.
Such results can only be secured by exercises based upon
scientific lines —exercises specially designed to accomplish that
purpose.
The BAKER POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH EXERCISES
consists entirely of good exercises, founded on those lines, and
have been tested and proved in the crucible of experience.
Here is an example of the excellent results they are achieving:
“I am really surprised at the results obtained in so short a
space of time from your Postal Course. lam feeling better in
every way, and my mates are asking me what I have been
doing to make me look so well. There is ample proof that I
am looking better, and my chest has improved considerably.”
A.D.C., Milton, N.S.W.
You will also benefit by such good exercises.
Why not write for fuller information, fees, etc., as given in
my interesting folder, “Physical Instruction by Post.” There’s
a copy waiting for you. Write for it to-day.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
79 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Straightaway
from the very outset, the
wonderfully uniform quality
:: of :: »
s
is guaranteed by the fact
that it is gathered from on#
source only. So when
you ask for motor spirit,
be sure to »ay "SHELL."
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—-Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTops and Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards, Wicket-keeping Gaunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
dfg
rri HE Best Stories written by Australian
JL Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
00 (double‘o')
Old Orkney Whisky
PILES CURED.
Yon have endured the pain and misery of Piles quite long enough.
Further neglect is dangerous; there is need of a course of Andrew
Murphy’s Pile Pills, the quickest, surest, safest and most reliable
remedy.
These wonderful Pills are prepared from a special formula, and
are compounded so accurately that they give immediate relief and a
speedy, certain cure in all cases. They cleanse the system of all
impurities, soothe the irritated membranes, causing the ulcerous
condition to cease, and restoring good health once again. They
supersede ointments, outward applications and operations.
Your chemist or storekeeper should be able to supply you with
Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills. Price, 3/- per box, post free. If not
obtainable locally, order direct from the Sole Proprietors: ANDREW
MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
fd
gdf
Footwear Comfort!
The Rigney Shoe is comfortable from the first time you
wear it —the “old shoe” feeling with the “new shoe”
appearance is guaranteed with every pair.
In. smartness of style, excellence of finish, and service-
ability, the Rigney Shoe stands pre-eminent.
The boot illustrated is an American model, made from
choice Yici Kid.
Price - 23/6.
In Velour Calf, 23/6 & 25/-
Alsoin Shoes, 19/6, 21/- & 22/6
Postage 9d. extra.
Write to-day for a Copy of our Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


IT FILLS ITSELF
gfd
If you use an Onoto
Pen, there’ll be no
filler to break or lose—
because the Onoto fills
itself in a flash. It
cannot leak. Suits
every hand and every
style of writing. It is
perfection and it is
British made. Getone
to-day and use It
It costs 12/- and up-
\vards at all stationers,
jewellers and stores.
Booklet about it free
from the makers,
Thos/Djs La Rue & Co.. Ltd , 381 Bunhill Row,
London, E.C., or the Australasian Representa-
tive, Norman Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney,
nofo
Pen
Self-Filling - •
Safety Fountain
those who require a larger
pen with a very flexible nib, a special model —
the new G—has been put on the market. It is
exceptional value for the money. Try this
new Gat your stationer's. Also ask him for
Onoto Ink, the best for fountain and all
other pens.
MdRTCLIS
rsne old coGnac
BRanDY
:
V
Martel Ts
Will Gratify
Your Guests
The perfect purity—the rare bou-
quet —the subtle, aromatic, delicate
flavor —combine to make this splen-
did Cognac typical of the very
“spirit of friendship.”
Offer it to your friends as a
beverage or as a smooth and ex-
quisite liqueur ! Pour it —a liba-
tion on the Altar of Friendship.
There is none more fitting.
Martell’s is, moreover, a potent
medicinal spirit. It is the bene-
ficial purity of Martell’s that gives
the ailing, who are compelled to
take stimulants, faith in its splen-
did virtues.
MARTELL’S
g
fdg
“Brass Button”: A whole shipload of
interesting items has been rising to the sur-
face in the Royal Commission’s inquiry into
the life-saving appliances of the Port Phillip
Bay (Vic.) steamers. All the particulars of
overcrowding the boats, of lifeboats and
rafts for two or three dozen people out of
the many hundreds on board, and other
clamorous details mentioned from time to
time, were naturally known to everybody
except a Royal Cornish. It appears that the
police have no power to prevent overcrowd-
ing on these boats. They can count the
people as they surge aboard and watch them
perch on the funnel or sit on the wheel and
cluster like flies on a lump of sugar wliere-
ever they can find foothold; and they can
watch the boat crawl out to sea loaded down
to the gun’l with humanity; and they can
then make a report, and a prosecution may
follow. That is well enough in its way, but
it won’t be much consolation if a collision
occurs out in the bay in the meantime and
99 per cent, of the passengers are drowned.
The Marine Board certainly has powers to
stop the ship if it thinks there is dangerous
overloading, but the trouble is that the
Board either isn’t there at the moment or is
somewhere else. A demonstration was given
in court re the method of fitting on a life-
belt. It took a couple of men three minutes
to fasten on one belt, and as the Judge
watched the performance and eyed the cum-
brous looking arrangement he feelingly re-
marked that after this exhibition he’d feel
safer without a life-belt. A nice problem is
presented here. If it takes two men three
minutes to fix a life-belt on in the sleepy
security of a courthouse, how long will it
take one woman in shrieking hysterics to do
it in one minute when there is a probability
of the ship foundering in half a minute? If
you stir a dark night, a whipped cream sea
and a howling gale into the mixture the pro-
blem is even more complicated. Witnesses
admitted that if a life-belt was placed too
low on the body the swimmer would float
safely, but feet uppermost, and an Annette
Kellerman herself might then find it an awk-
ward job to rise to the occasion right side
up. It was also admitted that if the neck
tape came untied the belt would most likely
slip down and the passenger slip up the
Golden Stairs. As the average man never
saw a life-belt put on, and the average
woman never saw one at all-—except neatly
stowed in a rack somewhere, when she pro-
bably took it for a part of the ship’s furni-
ture or a spare sail or a rat trap—there is
a fair chance of the belt either being ignored
or put on wrongly, in which case it is a cer-
tain and sudden death belt. However, a
recommendation was made that pictures be
put in the cabins showing how to fit the
thing on, so all is well. Other cheerful items
floated up. Some of the steamers were
shown to be built of plates from 5-16ths of
an inch to |in. thick. That sort of boat
couldn’t reasonably be expected to float half
an hour if it tore its underskirt, and even
with watertight bulkheads (which many
haven’t got) it would sink in a collision.
Anyhow, the inquiry may do some imme-
diate good, and any odd passenger who
hasn’t got his life insurance policy in order
may ston nshore and the next boat put out
with only 1999 passengers instead of 2000.
From “Henry Horsecollar” :
In my opinion the most futile thing that has yet
happened in the way of suffragette agitation was
that matter of the lady who “picked up a large
worm and threw it in the face of the First Lord of
the Admiralty.” In the first place, the lady
slinked, with great trouble and difficulty, into the
Balmoral “goff” links where Winston Churchill was
“goffing.” She apparently had no written or illumin-
ated address or plan of campaign with her, and de-
pended Wholly on the chapter of accidents and the
inspiration of the moment. She might drive Mr.
Churchill’s hat hard down on his head, or she might
throw grass at him, or she might simply rush past
him calling out “Votes for Women.” She was a
disorganised and leaderless army of one, advancing
without ammunition. Then she saw the worm, and
' threw it —and probably broke it. Doubtless she
hated the worm a great deal worse than he did, for
he probably goes fishing, and she probably doesn’t.
People who fish are acquainted with worms. She
had to hold the shuddery thing in her fingers for a
few seconds, while it simply struck Churchill and
rebounded, so as far as unpleasant association with
the worm was concerned the plaintiff was a great
deal worse off than the defendant. Probably the
worm had recoiled some feet before Churchill knew
what had happened, so he escaped the actual un-
pleasantness, while the lady experienced all of it.
To be hit with a worm, when you don’t know till
afterwards that it is a worm, is no worse than being
hit with a fragment of meat the day before yester-
day, but to carry a worm when you know it is a
worm is plain horrible.
There is room in this suffragette movement for a
genius, like these bogus men of mystery Sherlock
Holmes and Arsene Lupin, or even like that crude
but genuine humorist, Theodore Hook. The suffra-
gette body should circumvent its enemies and under-
mine them. It should move in a mysterious way its
wonders to perform, and leave no footprint behind.
It should be a voice under the bed in the middle of
the night, yet the most earnest search under the bed
should reveal no one there. It should be a ghost
and a spook and a hidden influence —an unseen hand
feeling in the pocket of its enemy—an invisible
power upsetting his inkbottle over his most valuable
papers, and putting candle-ends in his tea, and large
dead frogs in. his soup; and cutting the bottom out
of his hansom cab, so that he will fall through into
the street, and be left lying there amid public deri-
sion while the cab drives on with nothing in it save
atmosphere. It should know its political foe’s ap-
pointments with his best girl, and send his wife
there to keep the pair company. When the First
Lord has arranged to make a great speech about the
navy, this vast but silent conspiracy of women should
abstract his notes at the last second and replace
them by comic songs and snuff. When he attends
church in a devout spirit it should be the utterance
of an able ventriloquist, making him say “hooray”
or “cock-a-doodle-doo” when he, meant to say
“amen.” And if it does resort to the crude device
of throwing things at its opponents it should select
its missiles more carefully. Two gallons of indelible
black ink poured over the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer on the night when he had arranged to de-
liver his budget would make far more sensation than
the throwing of worms and axes and such-like ob-
jects.
To return to the worm episode-—what earthly good
is one worm? Suppose Winston Churchill had gone
to bis bath-room in the morning—he probably does
go—and had locked the door, and hung his kimono I
on the nail, and stepped gaily under the shower!
Suppose, instead of water, hundredweights of worms
had fallen on him! Suppose that he had got out
with a shriek and a howl and a bellow and a curse,
and had rushed for his kimono, and it had mysteri-
ously vanished! Suppose he struggled like a mad-
man covered with worms to open the door and
escape naked to his bedroom, and the door was un-
accountably fastened on the outside! Suppose he
hollered through the keyhole for Jeames Yellow-
plush, and Tummas Breeches, and John Henry
Calves, and Mary Ann, and even the cook! And
suppose nobody came, and nothing happened, save
that a paper was pushed under the door bearing the
mysterious words, “Votes for Women!” That would
be something like an episode. It would make Par-
liament sit up. It would arouse a shriek of ridicule
that would be heard all over Europe. The story of
how a nude distracted First Lord threw tons of
worms out of the window and called wildly for the
police would create such ribald mirth that the minis-
terial career of Winston Churchill would be ended.
And even if the perpetrator of the crime were dis-
covered she would merely be offered a big music-hall
engagement. But the suffragettes never work like
that. A wonderful crowd of ’bus-losers are these
’gettes.
“Harrison O.”: A knowledge of certain
legal subtleties might save the modern crim-
inal a heap of unpleasantness. Alan Moore,
one of the few misdemeanants captured in
Melbourne of late (he was caught, not by
one of the O’Callaghan minions, but by
civilian Geoffrey Syme), has been sentenced
to death on the capital charge of burglary
with wounding. A man who merely wounds
somebody, however dangerously, in the chest,
or street, or broad daylight, is not liable to
the death penalty, but he who inflicts a few
trifling scratches on anybody while engaged
in a burglary, is liable. But then a really
superior, well-educated “crook” would be
careful not to commit a burglary. For in-
stance, if W. Sikes enters a house through
an open door or window, and removes a silver
cruet, a gold coal-scuttle, a diamond-studded
horse collar and a bowl of goldfishes, he is
not a burglar. Unless it happens that the
window was not open quite wide enough and
he shoved it up a trifle, or the door was not
sufficiently ajar and he gave it a push, in
which cases he burgles. That is the case, |
except when he conducts the pushing or shov-
ing operation prior to 9 p.m.. for in that
case, since time is the essence of the contract, !
he would be a 'mere housebreaker, and any
wound he inflicted would happen during a
housebreaking, and not during a burglary.
A crook citizen may appropriate the ancestral
jewels with honor, together with the inf ant’s
money-box and the family tree, before nine
o’clock at night, and be a comparatively
minor offender, but if he merely annexes the
family skeleton at 9.5 p.m., he is a desperate
criminal within the meaning of tlie Ad. So
the confisentor who knows his business doe®
a little comparatively innocuous housebreak-
ing before 9 p.m., while the family is prob-
ably at a theatre or a lecture on Christian
Science, instead of perpetrating a dastardly
offence late at night, when everybody is at
home and armed with a revolver. The law j
on these points should be printed on a dozen
small cards, and one handed to each of
O’Callaghan’s prisoners, to read in his cell.
The so-called ethics of racing, especially
pony-racing, are curious articles, which
should be kept in a cool store or a museum,
for Wowsers to inspect when they require a
tonic. The Melbourne action in which Sin-
clair Adkins, owner of the pony Ladylike,
sued citizen Wren for alleged libel, dis-
covered a cheerful person, named Kings.
Kings swore that he had trained the pony
with others, for the absurdly small sum of
10s. per week, and knew her quite well, and
that anyone who asserted she was in reality
the disqualified pony Truelove was a pre-
varicator and a weather-prophet and a bal-
ance-sheet. He admitted in cross-examina-
tion that his reputation wasn’t exactly lily-
white ; in fact, he had been disqualified more
than a score of times all over the country
for “doing what the owner told him.” He
always did what the owner told him to do.
Sometimes the owner’s plans didn’t work
out too well, as at Jubilee Park, where he
rode a prad named Fly in a race in which
there were but three starters. He had orders
not to win; but, unfortunately, the two
other jockeys had similar instructions, so
the three of them pulled their mokes up and
tried to see which could walk the slowest.
The race wasn’t run out, but the three riders
were, temporarily. The witness, however,
was speedily in the saddle again, at Nar-
nar-goon, where he persuaded a four-months-
old pony, called Gracie, to cover four fur-
longs in 52(1 sec. Kings was such a casual,
happy-go-lucky cuss that he raced all horses
in his charge, no matter who was the owner,
in his own colors; and as he didn’t have to
give any pony’s pedigree he never gave one.
One nag he raced at Richmond he had got
at Ballarat from a “man called Tom.” He
seems to have trained all and sundry beasts,
at 10s. ner week, and to have taken all the
responsibility of entering and racing them,
in his own colors, just for the fun of the
thing, and, presumably, a small wager or
two. He was a remarkable product of pony
life, and it was no wonder that C.J. Madden,
on the Bench, inspected him carefully and
thoughtfully as he left the box.
WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ten by ten we went our way,
Ten by ten in the dawning grey.
One by one we came at night,
One by one in the dull twilight,
Ten by ten we went with pride,
Ten by ten in the last wild ride.
One by one we came with pain,
One by one and never again
Ten by ten will we go our way,
Ten by ten to the fighting gay.
One by one they shot us down,
One by one, leader and clown.
Ten by ten the graves they fill,
Ten by ten they lie on the hill.
x.s.w.
SYDNEY PARTRIDGE.


mt
i
. -
S»jB
Wj
I
>:
tm
m
m
mm
m it
t
ms
mm
m
SB
:
Iff
I
tarn
mm.
BHkF
mm
Hi.
- -
i
*
‘m
mi
u
a
7\
m
INTENDING Motor Buyers are invited to call at the Garage and inspect models of the under-
mentioned Cars. A wide range of choice—in point of Power, Design, Finish, Capacity and
Nationality—is presented, and is calculated to fill your wants in the most suitable way. To
those unable to call personally, we will send, post free, full information of any or every Car. Any
trial will be arranged, on request. Our Agencies include F.N. (10/14, 16/24), AUSTIN (10, 15,
18/24), DAIMLER (15, 20, 25, 38), CUTTING (30), DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE (19, 27),
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES (to carry from 15cwt. to six tons).
DALCETY 8 CO. LTD.,
MOTOR. GARAGE*
136-138 Phillip St., Sydney.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE: Agents for Daimler,
Austin, Delaunay-Belleville, Napier, Buick, Lacre
Lorries and Halley Lorries.
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE: Agents for Daimler,
Austin, Delaunay=Belleville, F.N., Cutting, Halley
Lorries, Lacre Lorries.


Whooping Cough
and Bronchitis —
now she’s strong
scotts
EMULSION
When a mother praises a|
remedy, it is an indication 1
that remedy is good. But
when thousands and thou-
sands of mothers, year after
year, praise SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, it is PROOF that it is
quite unequalled as a remedy
for weakness and children’s
ailments.
Both children grew
strong on Scott’s.
“My daughter was suffering with a
severe attack of whooping-cough, I
gave her Scott’s Emulsion and she is
now stronger and better than she has
ever been before.
My baby was very ill with bronchitis,
and nothing did him good until I gave
him Scott’s Emulsion. The bronchitis
has now disappeared and he is gaining
strength and vigor every day. ”
Edith Nicol, Hill Street, Leichardt,
Sydney, N. S. W. 16.6.11.
Imitations are not good enough
for you. Therefore, avoid risk of
error and disappointment. Ask for
SCOTT’S Emulsion and see the
Trade Mark on the package. j
df
This Trade Mark is made
prominent on the BACK of
every package of genuine
SCOTT’S Emulsion. Look
for the mark and KNOW
you really have got genuine
Scott's Emulsion.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
HOW “ANTINEURASTHIN”
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
it is, in the first place, essentially a food —not a
drug stimulant.
It is a food that feeds the whole of the nervous
system with those elements the lack of which in the
structural tissues constitutes the neurasthenic con-
dition.
It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully absorbed, thus creating quickly a renewed
mental and physical vigor. This is not mere stimu-
lation, but is really the sensation produced by the
actual assimilation and storage of those refined ele-
ments necessary to nerve comfort and vigor. This
is not —as in the case of tonics and stimulants —a
mere transient whipping up, but an actual addition
to the nerve structure and nerve strength of the in-
dividual. A FREE TRIAL
together with pamphlet dealing with Nervous Com-
plaints, and containing analysis of Antineurasthin,
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage, by the Wholesale Agent, H. A. GODDARD,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane ;
or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland.
SERIAL No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. GODDARD,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.
CARBIDE.
First=Class
Results use
Best
!*~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can he obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag-nts for Australia.
Any of the children pale'
r thin, delicate? We strongly'
recommend Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Makes rich, red blood.
Gives strength to the mus-
* cles. Improves the appetite.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
gdf
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
. Infantas - 17/6
| Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Monet Re-
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
cation. Only address
54 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
"‘‘ABERDEEN”
(Regd.) **»*^*"^^™
on Tarpaulins
is what the hall-mark is on silver—means there is nothing doubtful about the quality.
If unobtainable locally, write to us for prices, etc.
Always get “ABERDEEN” brand of WATER BAGS, TENTS, FLYS,
FILTERS, BUTTER COOLERS, and all Canvas Goods.
SMITH, COPELAND & CO. LTD.
204-6 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
(fife
SI
to
W
4!
Arrol-Johnston
Australian Car.
A SPECIALLY - DESIGNED model of the famous
15*9 h.p. Arrol-Johnstons —the cars that formed the
ONLY teams to survive in the Grand Prix of 1911 and 1912.
AGENTS: SYDNEY, Eyes & Crowle, Ltd., 225 Clarence Street; MEL-
BOURNE, Essendon Motor Garage, 535 Mount Alexander Road ;
ADELAIDE, Murray Aunger Ltd., 65 Franklin Street; BRISBANE, Howard
Cycle & Motor Co., 376 Queens Street ; PERTH, Perth Motor House, 890 Hay
Street; HOBART, H. C. Heathorn & Co., 31 Campbell Street.
ter.::.
m
mm
—i:. I
THIS IS THE
“SILENT EMPIRE.”
HAT the purchase of this Biograph
is a safe and profitable investment
is proved by the fact that numbers
of biomen are replacing their old ma-
chines with it.
Travelling biomen especially find it a
wonderfully efficient and economical ma-
chine, embodying all those features which
are essential to a good biograph —com-
pactness, strength, reliability, durability.
It is absolutely silent in operation, and
renders the pictures without a flicker.
It is fitted with the Maltese Cross
attachment.
J e r d a n*s
Sole Agents for Australia,
“ Leading Cinematograph Specialists,”
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENCY—
ALEXANDER GUNN & SONS,
236 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
gd
15
mo
v m
m
KENT
DOVER
BUTE
81
SYD
RICHMOND
YORK
The
COMPLETE
Rexophone
Catalogue
Fully describes these and other Models
Ask for a Copy. We post it FREE
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPT. B,
The Plum Razor Should Be Your Choice
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
As practical hairdressers we use and recommend the
PLUM Razor. Its fine silver-steel blade is delicately
tempered, and it carries a keen edge, which makes for
a clean, close, velvety shave. We keep every Hum
in good order for two years. Test one for yourself.
Price 10/6 Post Free,
The 0, & A. Moustache
Trainer shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at niprht;
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each post
free.
We Grind and Set Razors,
\jm each.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
Single Razor, Black Handle. 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG <a AITKEN,
a£a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
054 ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
I whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
' E.W.H.: “Bosom” jokes have to be very
carefully selected. Yours is a random and ill-chosen
bosom joke Cynicus: You ask: '“When will woman
realise that her sphere extends to the home, and no
further?” Dunno! Certainly, Quden Victoria didn’t
realise it, nor did other sovereigns, including Semir-
-5 amis, Catherine the Great, Maria Theresa, Mary of
Scotland, Isabella of Castille, Elizabeth of England,
Mary 11. of England, the late Empress of China, and
a lot more. And the fact didn't dawn on Florence
Nightingale, Elizabeth Fry, Joan of Arc, the Maid of
Saragossa, and others. Anyhow, when next you are
laid up, get a male nurse. And next time your wife
is ill get a male nurse. Then you will live up to
your theory S.H.W.: These remarks about the
birth-place and origin of Albert Dorrington, the
clever story-writer, were based on his own statements
made to a man who is still on The Bulletin staff.
So when you say that you knew him in infancy in
One Horse Gulch, in Nevada, near Gippsland, close
beside Fiji, on the edge of Brazil, you are probably
confusing him with someone else.... Scutcher: The
joke that is made up of question and answer must
have some air of probability about it. For instance,
when it is necessary, in order to pave the way for the
jest, that a man in evening dress should stop a
policeman with a cocked hat in front of a tram car,
and ask if the street lamp is a new moon, the position
is too laborious.... liowhai: The Maoriland gauge is
3ft. 6in. .. . J.G.C.: Dunno. Try one of the local
libraries. . .Bellerive: Glad to hear from you again:—
A WOMAN’S REVENGE.
Oh Wilfred why do you shun me
Appealed a woman as her blue eyes met his own.
Begone Ileen said the artist
My love for thee like a bird has flown.
A cry broke from the lips of the unhappy AVoman
The false deceiver had ruined her life
As he turned with contempt towards his easel
Into his side she plunged a knife.
’Twas a fatal thrust his brow turned livid
As he sank convulsively to the floor
She had fulfilled her deed of revenge and horror
Into a pool oozed the victim’s gore.
....Planet, Jr.: It is the basket’s own. .. .E.A.D.:
Verses very wretched and ramshackle. They made us
so miserable, that we had not sufficient spirit left to
d —n them ... . A.8.G.: Unsuitable. .. .Jackeroo: You
appear to be a very deliberate and solemn person,
but you have omitted to attach your right name and
address to your letter of protest, anent the “vapor-
ings” of our contributor “E.W.0.” on the “Aborigin-
alities” page. If you can “vapor” as cheerfully in de-
fence of the immigrant, we shall be glad to hear
you. Also, you might let us know who you are and
where you reside. . . .J.M.P. : The office AVowser, who
happens to be the commander-in-chief of the Parks
and Gardens Vigilance Committee, uttered a faint
shriek, and bore the poem to the furnace on the
point of his umbrella. Apart altogether from its
shocking moral tone, the artistic value is practically
nil... . Shick: It appears to be a three-legged attempt
at a horse poem.... Sir Owen: Thanks, but we can’t
reprint Louisa S.: “Song” js a well-meaning
effort, but we can’t sing it, and we’re sure our
reade’rs would not try. You can’t imagine how diffi-
cult it is to get people to sing their papers —especi-
ally in public. .. .C.T.M. (Scotland): Poem travels
a long rocky road to a small joke.... Manin: A ten-
der little thing; criticism killed it instantly....
J.A. (Q.) : Obscurity is your chief trouble, and you
have it badly. In a literary sense you are like to
die of it. . . .R.H. (M.L.) : Don’t write on either side
of the paper, and take care not to soil the edges. .. .
P.L.A.G.: Hell is papered with that sort of stuff. .. .
Our Sarcastic Opponent: Your versarticleyarn, “Home
to Work,” is now in the office tomb. .. . C.H.S.: Old
gum-tree blasted out of the office.... M.C.: Cease
from troubling. ... Moses: You haven’t hitched your
waggon to a star, anyhow. Should rather think you
had hitched it to a coal pit. .. . G.C.F.: Don’t care
for “Tempus.” Stamps received for return, but can
find no trace of address.... Looking B.: That story
about the Bananaland railway, and the Governor who
turned the first sod, and the cablegram that made it
“twins, first son,” is too old. Even Mark Twain told
it. .. .D.L.M.: First yarn has nothing in it, and the
second is as old as sin and as sad as chalk
T.W.F.: Elaborately obscure suggestions for cartoon
to hand. The only thing that is clear about it is
that you want us to apologise to London Punch.
Why? AA r e didn’t interfere with the pipes of the
organ, or Martin Chuzzlewit, or the Kaiser, or any-
body. .. .Sir Octopus: “The Frugal Evil” doesn’t
amuse, enlighten or charm... .Bill Bunkum: “King
in the Fighting Line” does not matter at a 11....
L.K.: “Courage of Numbers” is no use. Try again
with a better subject. .. .W.S.: “Subterfuges” has no
health in it, nor life, nor even the sort of death that
could make a yarn interesting. .. .Karl Austerweal:
“My Mistake” has plenty of originality about it.
Two stanzas:—
He wore a face of reddish hue;
A scarf around . his neck,
And at bacca did often chew ;
His pockets were full of eheks.
His funds run low all at once
He borrowed a quid off me
And soon it reached the twentieth one
For his ship had sunk at sea.
.. . . Bil Al r yt: Story has nothing in it. Can’t advise
you what to take for it, but a rest might be good.
. ...A.W.S.: One stanza in “Coralie” fills us with
mixed .emotion: —
Ah! thou too soon or I too late
Had we but met those vanished years
Were never thine that bitter fate
Or mine these unavailing tears.
To which we would sympathetically add:—
But it too good and she to wait
, Were, better matched with that which cheers
If they to go and those who hate
AVere half-remembered in . their beers.
....Logos: You begin, “Friend Christian, wilt thou
bear with me?” AVe called in the office Wowser to
tackle the job, but even he couldn’t do it without
stimulants to support him Common Sense:
“Snowball’s Rant” begins in a strong forceful way
that we much admire. One hunk, slab or section: —
After Dinner comes desert
In which Snowball frequently indulges
It’s usually after prayer, he takes pains to assert
That Romans are the curse'of the Earth
In a Christlike manner, to the crowd inert.
This flourishing Section, pierce his heart
In deciding a united Body to be, that’s a cert
And re-opens the Wound, with each school and church
erected.
....Ardmore L.Q.: Set them on fire by all means.
We have known such verses to be set to music,
but it isn’t kind to the music, although there cer-
tainly is some music that richly deserves it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
G.R. J.: There was quite a discussion in the office,
laddie, as to your age. The Religious Editor, going
on the quality of your gags, estimated it at nine
years. Norman Lindsay, taking a line by your black
and white work, averred passionately that you could
not be more than seven. In the end a quarrel en-
sued between these estimable toilers, as a result of
which they have not taken gin together for some
hours... .J. 5.8.: By a marvellous effort of per-
spective you have made the lady look as if she was
walking on a roof and the two men were standing
on a pavement about 80ft. wide.


X
&
WHAT IS ECONOMY?
TO USE
RED RUBBER TUBES
which prove the cheapest by far —not when
you buy them, but long after they are bought.
Price alone is no basis of tyre value. It is
the most efficient tyre that must always prove
the most economical.
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained from all the leading Garages.
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, with the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction ; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. But there is one supremely effectual remedy,
but for which the world would have been a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopoeia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
for more than a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
ochuis
ex
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
BUILT TO BEAT THE BAND
q THE BESSES O’
THE BARN have
gone but the Besses o’
the Pocket have come
to stay.
fg
<5 The Feeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack
Mouth
Organs
MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional 40 Reeds, 3 - Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds,. . . 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds, , . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds, . . . 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Re.ds. . . . 6d
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents :
Allan & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne, Adelaide
Bendgo & Geelong
The Hany Points of SUPERIORITY
.fEckersley’s “REGAL” Aerated
df
Water Machine
over ALL OTHERS create a demand
for it by all sensible
HOTELKEEPERS.
Catalogues from
EGKERSLEY & SONS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE,
The Only Manufacturers of GOOD
Soda Water Machines and Fountains.
Queens and Agents:
ELLIOT DONALDSON & DOUGLASS, Brisbane.


YOU GET BEAUTY, VARIETY, AND QUALITY
A. SAUNDERS
Never before were our Jewellery Designs quite so lovely, so rare and exclusive
as NOW. We ask YOU to send for our free Catolog. It contains over Two
Thousand illustrations of Delightful Ideas. THE BOOK IS FREE.
£B/10/.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and Tour-
malines.
£4/10/-
9ct Gold-chas-
ed Curb BRA-
..LET, Safety
chain attached.
25/-
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS set
Pearls and Aqua-
marines.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sap-
phires.
17/6
15ct Gold,
set
pure
white
Pearls.
£4/10/.
9ct Gold, Heavy “Trace” MUFF-
CHAIN, £4/10/. £5/10/.
I^/6
9ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Pearls
and Red or Blue Stones or Tur-
quoise.
12/6-
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
£2.
Ladies’ Gold Open Face
Keyless WATCH, Fancy
Dial, perfectly timed and
adjusted; guaranteed 3
years’ free repairs.
20/.
20/.
/
%
H
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless Lever
TIMEKEEPER, full-jewelled, with patent
adjusted Balance, Non-magnetic Time
Spring, Dust and Water proof Cases, accu-
rate, reliable, 20/; guaranteed one year’*
free repairs.
10/6
9ct Gold
CHARM, set
Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones.
a 3
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamond.
12/6
9ct Gold SEAL PEN-
DANT, Amethyst or
Topaz.
18ct Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
£5/10/.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Ruble"
21 i.
loct Gold BROOCH, set Green
Tourmalines or Rubies.
37/6
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
£7/15/.
£7/15/.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and
Tourmalines or Bubies.
15ct Gold WED-
DING BING,
15/; 18ct Gold,
20/.
£22/10/'
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and
Tourmalines.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
WB
PAY
POSTAGE.
aoi-
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, Safety Cham
attached.
m
a
Ladies’ Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet WATCH,
Full-jewelled, 3-plate, Compensation Balance, strong,
Keyless Works.
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 10/8, 12/6, 15/, 17/6; 14ct.
Gold Filled, 15/, 20/, 25/; 9ct. Gold, 55/, 60/, 70/.
V
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/;
9ct. Gold, 60/, 65/, 70/, 80/, 90/, £5.
9ct Gold
CHARM, richly
embossed.
£lO
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamonds.
Oct Gold LINKS; 15ct
Gold LINKS, 40/.
ISct Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
£4/jlO/-
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Ruby.
27/6-
15ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Dia-
mond and 2 rubies or Sapphires.
it
32/6
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Turquoise.
£5-
15ct Gold, set Diamonds, Pink Tourma-
lines, and Peridot.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-
cut Diamonds.
22/6-
15ct Gold,
set pure
Diamond
Oct Gold CROSS,
nicely chased.
gdf
b*ct Gold Bird and Spray BROOCH,
Pearl set Bird.
£5/10/-
15ct Gold, set 11 Diamonds, 1 Pink,
and 1 Green Tourmaline.
9ct Gold BROOCH, set
Pearls and Amethysts.
10/
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, hand chased, 10/;
Gold Filled, 22/6
9ct Gold Fancy
Basket Pattern
BRACELET,
strong Safety
chain attached.
Gent.’g Patent 10 years’ guaranteed gold-
cased Hunting Keyless Waltham WAiCH,
full-jewelled Compensation Balance, ac-
curate, reliable,
50/
Guaranteed 3 years’ free repairs.
LEADING
mmmmßffl
SYDNEY’S
H
m
JEWELLER
a
a
n
807, 809, BM, 613, 615, 817, GEORGE. ST fOpposite Railway Station) SVDNEV N.S,_W
MITrl
SI LVE.
O
TJ
B
@
n
ER
CL


ACTUAL SIZE OF VEST POCKET KODAK, CLOSED FOR THE POCKET.
THE VEST
POCKET
Always with you;
never in the way.
The Smallest
KODAK
Made.
KODAK, 351
'~THE VEST POCKET KODAK is the
1 newest Kodak—the smallest Kodak —the
daintiest Kodak —so capable that it will convince .the experi-
enced amateur, so simple that it will appeal to the novice, so flat and
smooth and small that it will readily fit your vest pocket ; yes, and smart
enough for milady s handbag. Ideal for touring purposes.
And the Vest Pocket Kodak is efficient. It is small, almost tiny, but the carefully
selected Meniscus Achromatic Lens insures good work ; the Kodak Ball-bearing Shutter,
with Iris Diaphragm and Auto-time Scale give it a scope and range not found except in the
highest grade cameras. Loads in daylight with Kodak film cartridge for eight exposures.
Having a fixed focus it is always ready for quick work. Has Reversible Brilliant Finder.
Made of metal, with lustrous black finish. Right in every detail of design and reliable in
every detail of construction. Pictures, ljin. x 2£ln. Price 35/-, Postage 6d. extra.
Spools, 1/3 each. —Descriptive Booklet Free. Call, or write for one.
“IF IT ISN'T AN EASTMAN, IT ISN’T A KODAK!”
V.P.K. OPEN.
CAMERAS
and Photo Supplies.
We have the LARGEST STOCK OF
CAMERAS and PHOTO SUPPLIES in the
Commonwealth.
COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
FREE AT YOUR REQUEST.
ODA KL (Australasia) L- T" !D
•' • ; > x. _ -
' -:.W
Incorporating; Baker <SL Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON and AUCKLAND, N.Z.
The Highest Point
in the World’s Steam Engine
trade has been reached by
The Marshall
gfd
which is universally acknowledged as the
Standard by which all other Engines are judged.
MARSHALL’S enjoy the largest Steam Engine Trade in the World, and each
year the business increases. Only the very best materials are used, and the
quality never varies.
MARSHALL’S Light and Heavy Pattern ROAD LOCOMOTIVES.
OIL TRACTORS for Ploughing, Hauling, and General Purpose Work.
PORTABLES, from 2 to 85 H.P., 120-1501 b. W.P.
Latest Improved Vertical and Horizontal STATIONARY ENGINES.
VERTICAL BOILERS, 2to 12 H.P., 1001 b. pressure. Full Stocks always
available.
COLONIAL TYPE BOILERS. Special OIL, Packing, and Engine Sundries.
Descriptive Catalogues Free.— r Cash or Easy Terms.
MARVELLOUS RESULTS
are everywhere obtained with the
i
m
“BIG CHIEF”
OIL ENGINES
—which are the highest-grade American pro-
duction on the market. They are easy to start
and will keep on running (providing they are
properly oile4) until you require to stop. * The
equipment is complete in every detail, and in-
cludes WIZARD MAGNETO, DOUBLE FLY-
WHEELS, and MUFFLER. Being hopper
cooled, no troubles need be feared from leaky
tanks. If you wish to provide yourself with a
reliable motive power, send us your inquiry. We
will give you expert advice by return mail—
positively gratis.
All sizes ENGINES, 2 to 12 using Benzine or Kerosene as Fuel.
Cash or Easy Terms. Catalogues Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CQ. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
MODEL 1906
.22 Caliber Repeater
This is the repeater you want, boys. It '
holds fifteen .22 Short, twelve .22 Long
or eleven .22 Long - Rifle cartridges, and
you can shoot them aH in the same rifle.
This makes it an all-around rifle, good either
for target shooting or for small game, such
as rabbits,, birds, etc. It takes down and /
is extra light in weight. Although it
does not cost much, it is made to shoot
straight and last a long time, like all
Winchester rifles, and you will be
thoroughly pleased with it. The
Model 1906 repeater is used by
thousands of boys in America and is
known as the “Boy’s Winchester.”
Shoot a celebrated Winchester.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS


Fine Designs» Stewart Dawson s
Always the Newest—Always the Daintiest —Always the most
Original and Attractive in Design are Stewart Dawson
Goods. And they are sold to you by the manufacturers at
FIRST COST
PRICES.
9ct. Gold Necklet, of
the VERY LATEST
DESIGN. Special
Value,
27/6
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Ruby Clus-
ter Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£7/7/-
Finest Quality Dia-
mond Cross-over Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l5/10/-
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Ruby Clus-
ter Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2/12/6
Finest Quality 2-
stone Diamond Cross-
over Ring, 18et. Gold,
£lO/10/-
g
9ct. Gold Necklet, of
the VERY LATEST
DESIGN, Special
Value,,
i "
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Ruby Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
rfCN
Finest Quality ' 5-
stone Diamond and
Emerald Ring, 18ct.
Gold,
£2B/10/-
Finest Quality 5-
etone Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£lB/10/-
Mr
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Sapphire 5-
stone Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£27/10/-
Finest, Quality White
Diamond, set in Plat-
inum and 18ct. Gold,
£5O
Fine Quality Gent.’s
Single Stone Diapond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5/10|-
mm
Finest Quality 3-stone
Diamond Ring, 18et.
Gold,
C8307-—Fine Pearl and
Aquamarine Set 9ct.
Gold Necklet,
WE PAY THE POSTAGE
ON ALL GOODS.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
ART CATALOGUE.
Finest Quality White
Diamond, set in Plat-
inum and 18ct. Gold,
£165
Finest Quality . Dia-
mond and Ruby 3-
stone Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5O
18ct. Gold Wedding
Rings,
21/-
25/-, 30/-, 50/-
Stewart Dawson & Co
(Australia), Limited,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
•quo!
Can only be obtained through a
r
MOTOR TYRE
Barnet Glass Rubber .6 h°
■ j
rounders of The-Rulilier Industry- in Australia 1
23t. Clarence St. Sydney. Tei .95»Ci1y
AND ALL STATES
Pinero has been expressing regret that the Ameri-
can drama is not better appreciated in London. Plays
that have been huge and pronounced successes in the
States prove lamentable frosts when brought across
the Atlantic. “It is not,” says Pinero, “that Eng-,
lishmen are prejudiced against plays that illustrate
American national character and ventilate American
problems. They are. just not interested —that’s all.
It is the misfortune of Englishmen to be so slow
and self-contented.” Pinero praises the Americans
for being just the reverse. They are alert and re-
ceptive. His own plays all deal with English life,
which is very different from American, and yet not
a single one of his has failed in America because it
was not understood. As a matter of fact, Pinero
declares, “delicate little points which I have tried to
make for my English audiences missed them com-
pletely, while Americans grasped them immediately.”
Pinero says American actors speajc better than Eng-
lish ones. They enunciate their words: more clearly.
English actors are not trained nowadays. A return
to the old stock company system is badly needed.
That was the most perfect training school for the
actor. In writing his plays, Pinero tries to forget
“the innocent young person and the tired business
man.” He writes from within himself, and therein
lies the chief pleasure of his work. He, also likes to
vary his themes. Latterly he has been rather serious,
but’ some day he may return to the lighter subjects
in which he scored his earliest successes. At least
he thinks he will, but he won’t. When age crawls,
upon us,, one of the first things we lose is the capac-
ity to be humorous. The oldest inhabitant may still
cackle at the old jokes, but he doesn’t build new
ones.
“F.C.”: I don’t know whether this is an instance .
of casualness or one of the reasons why some of our
infants fail.to reach,a mature, age, ; but— , The, other
Saturday afternoon an attendant broke into the
middle of a Melbourne suburban picture show, with
a loud remark to the effect that there was a small
infant in a go-cart bawling lustily on the pavement
outside the entrance, and, “did any of the ladies pre-
sent own the child?’’ A young woman, old enough
to have known better, straiglitly arose and stepped
outside and presently returned with the comforted
mite, and the pair settled down placidly to consume
the rest of the , programme. As the iron roof had
given indications of two smart hailstorms, as well as
some rain—and the- child’s condition showed it had
caught most of it —I don’t fancy the nipper’s health
would be improved thereby. But the lady didn’t
worry ; the pictures were the chief consideration.
One of Hugh Mclntosh’s first deals after taking
charge of the Rickards circuit was to re-engage
Will Whitburn. And the move was a sound one, as
witness the amazing reception that was accorded
William the other night. He is the most successful
comedian who ever appeared at the Opera House,
Melbourne, though, curiously enough, in Sydney he
has never drawn worth three penn’orth of birdseed.
Huge Deal Mclntosh stipulated, and wisely, that
Whitburn should do no new stuff, but just repeat the
old successes and the old gags.
How many “God’s Own Countries” are there? So
the late Dick Seddon and Tom Bent were wont to
sum up Maoriland and Victoria respectively, and
doubtless there are people in Patagonia and Kams-
chatka who also consider their respective lands the
special favorites of the Almighty. There is, in fact,
an Icelandic proverb: “Iceland is the best land on
which the sun shines.” Oscar Hainmerstein, the New
York Jew, who has dropped a quarter of a million
in giving the Londoners an opera house that they
didn’t want, has returned to America a sadder and a
wiser man. His first words to the New York re-
porters were: “By Jove, boys, it’s good to be back
again in God’s Own Country.” He added that he
would rather be dead in New York than alive in
London. Well, it is better than being of the Stink-
ing Fish persuasion, and calling your native land
Dog’s Own Country, as some do.
“U.S.”: Belasco was sued for damages, a few weeks
ago, by Abraham Goldknopf, a barber, on a charge of
piracy from a drama called “Tainted Philanthropy.”
Belasco rejected this, but Goldknopf claimed that it
had been embodied in a piece called “The Woman.”
The case was exactly similar to Oomvns Carr’s com-
plaint, that Pinero, in “The Squire,” pillaged his
adaptation of Hardy’s “Far' From the Madding
Crowd.” Belasco gave the court a most amusing
performance of the outrageous extravagance in
“Tainted Philanthropy,” not a bit like “The
Woman.” Then he turned to Goldknopf with, “My
play is political. You crazy dramatist, there ar.e no
politics in your play. The two are as much alike
as ‘Hamlet’ and ‘Bertha, the Sewing Machine Girl.’”
“Aha!” said Goldknopf’s lawyer, “You read his
play?” “Read it; of course I did! It is no more
like ‘The Woman’ than an elephant’s ear is like
your mouth. Your Honor, I’ll • produce both plays
for you to come and see, and decide.” Judge Holt:
“Rather costly that.” Belasco: “I’ll willingly .sacri-
fice $2OOO to show this fraud up.” Goldknopf: “Oh,
that’s all right. But you must give me actors as
good.” Belasco: "Better! better! Your butcher’s
plot shall be staged.” Judge Holt appointed a date
in October when he would see both plays at Belasco’s
theatre.
“Harrison O.”: A short time ago a Poverty Pointer
desired to be informed of a play which contained a
journalist who was not represented as entitled to the
unqualified disrespect of a right thinking audience.
Since then tvvo Australian-made plays with a journ-
alist as hero have been inflicted upon Melbourne.
The first was Mularkey’s “For Homestead and
Honor.” and the second is Cosgrove’s “The World,
the Flesh and the Devil,” at present exploding at
the Bijou. In this piece too, the heroine announces
in clear, ringing tones:' “Journalism is one of the
noblest professions”—a stirring line which never
fails to refrain from winning loud applause. Neither
of the dramas mentioned ever possessed the remotest
prospect of success. Does an inkslinger hero kill a
play ; or is the damnation of a still-born drama likely
to be mitigated by an attempt of this kind to
flatter the faithful followers of the daily press? Also,
is it with the latter object in view that Cosgrove
make's his Perth pressman-hero a person of unblem-
ished frock coat, and the possessor of a tall hat calcu-
lated to fill Bruce Smith with envy?
A COMPLAINT OF MUCH MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I want to be in pleasant places old
Where some lone shepherd tooted,
Or Marsyas in a Phrygian vale of gold
At qui;et evening fluted;
I want to feel as those whose hearts were bold,
Ere German bands were mooted.
A wandering minstrel, drunk with horns of mead,
Could set his wild notes ringing,
The fame of beauty or the valiant deed
To hall and castle bringing;
I think I could endure at utter need
His most envenomed singing.
But here, the dull suburban atmosphere
Piano strains are cheating,
Shrill, tuneless fiddles fill the dark with fear,
Wild phonographs are bleating,
And, by the corner sacred to brown beer,
Salvation’s drums are beating.
Somewhere the poet sits with maddened hair,
His lines to cuss-words chiming,
While up the ladder of the tortured air
A thousand discords climbing,
Make all his thoughts one elemental swear,
Reflected in his rhyming. ,
I want to be in pleasant places old,
To hear Apollo flinging
His splendid music from a lyre of gold
Down vales with rapture' ringing,
/ want to feel as those whose hearts were hold
Ere Cissy started singing.
N.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.


\ SlcN^
0
mm
0
/
'O-
-
a
/
lilt
Hi
■
■
iigaiis
"VTctopm P4pk Oimo Clop
TST-
AMONG THE TROTTERS at VICTORIA PARK.
SITUATED at Zetland, close to the city and easily accessible by tram from Central or the Quay,
Victoria Park Racecourse is especially attractive to Sportsmen who patronise keen, exciting
racing. The extensive Grounds are artistically laid out with flower-beds—at present in full bloom
and are the finest in Australasia. They rival Flemington and Randwick for beauty and up-to-date
appointments, and equal the best Courses of the European Continent. The appointments of the
buildings are modern in every respect, no details for the comfort and pleasure of visitors being overlooked.
The two Scratching Towers are distinct features of Victoria Park, and equal any similar buildings in
other parts of the world. The Paddock Stand has beautifully furnished Retiring and Sitting Rooms for
the use of ladies —the sanitary arrangements being equal to those of the best City Hotels. Half of the
Ground Floor is occupied by a well-appointed Bar—the remainder reserved for commodious Dining
Rooms capable of seating 200 guests.
VICTORIA PARK possesses four racing tracks, the Trotting Track being installed at a cost of over
£lO,OOO. This track is used for Trotting Meetings under the auspices of the Australian Trotting Club.
On Thursday next, October 10, the next Meeting is to be held, the following events taking
place: Encourage Handicap of 35 Sovs., Flying Mile Handicap of 50 Sovs., Progressive Handicap of
35 Sovs., Unhoppled Handicap of 45 Sovs., and the A.T.C. Handicap of 60 Sovs.
Full information regarding Handicaps, etc., may be obtained from the A.T.C. Secretary,
20-21 Imperial Arcade, Pitt Street, City:


Women Who Shave.
DESPERATE MEASURES NECESSITATED
BY SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
A CLEVER WOMAN COMES TO THE RESCUE.
To assert that many ladies in this country are*
compelled to resort to the razor in order to rid
themselves of superfluous hair on face and arms will
no doubt cause much surprise. It is, nevertheless,
true ; and women who, from time to time, shave off
one or two hairs really act as foolishly as those who
apply a depilatory to the whole chin, lips or arms,
to burn off the humiliating growth.
Of course, in either case the hair is only got rid
of until it can grow anew ; and the stiff, bristling re-
appearance of it causes tears of hysterical humilia-
tion. Then razor or depilatory is applied afresh ; for
what else can the poor sufferer do? There are
women whose mental and physical breakdown is
attributable to the misery of superfluous hair, which
they have no means of conquering.
A clever beauty specialist in Edinburgh, Mme.
Tensfeldt, has already saved some hundreds of
women from almost unspeakable distress by her in-
vention of a portable, self-acting electrolyser, by
which any woman can secretly rid herself forever of
every superfluous hair. There is no renewal of the
gro\Vth. Once electrolysed the root, is' dead. The
process (which is painless and absolutely infallible)
can be applied to any lady in the privacy of her own
room. Once used, the misery of superfluous hair is
gone for ever. The expense has been purposely fixed
low. Mme. Tensfeldt, 120 a, Princes Street, Edin-
burgh, Scotland, will send the whole apparatus in a
plain package for only £5 ss. When its good work
has been done, she will take the apparatus back and
allow £1 ss. for it second-hand if returned within
six months. Many ladies in this country will no
doubt be glad of the offer, and Mme. Tensfeldt guar-
antees the success of her electrolyser.*
Martin’s Fills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Cadies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Missing Friends.
HARRIS.
JAMES HARRIS (son of JAMES HAR-
RIS, of Cardiff, in the County of Gla-
morgan, Wales, Builder), is requested to
communicate with the undersigned to his
advantage. The above-named JAMES HAR-
RIS left England for Australia about the
year 1869, a Carpenter by trade, and then
about 20 vears of age. He was last hqard
of in November, 1879, his address being
James Harris, Carpenter, care of Mr. 11.
Smith, Auburn, near Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia.
No letter has been received from him since,
nor has any news been heard of him. If
the said James Harris is dead, information
or proof of death can be given to the Solici-
tors as under. Dated this 28th day of
August, 1912. DAVENPORT, CUNLIFFE
& BLAKE, of 48 Chancery Lane, London,
Agents for J. W. MORRIS, of 9 Quay
Street, Cardiff.
WIFE CURES HUSBAND OF ASTHMA.
“My wife is iny doctor ; she understands my com-
plaint very well,” says Mr. Alfred Burnett, 67 Wick-
steed Place, Wanganui, N.Z. “When I had an
attack of asthma she gave me a rubbing with
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, got me to take Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy at the same time, and the
relief was wonderful. I am satisfied that this
treatment is the best I have ever tried, and I recom-
mend it to all sufferers from asthma.”*
AKY CHILD CAN TAKE GOOD PICTURES WITH
The Minute Button Camera
Takes, Develops and Completes an
Excellent Portrait in One Minute.
THE CAMERA DOES IT fiLL. ALMOST SELF-ECTING.
k
IS THIS STYIi*.
NO KNOWLEDGE of
BUOTOGRA IfllY
NEEDED.
No Dark Room
No Focussing.
NO PRINTING.
NO TROUBEE.
Splendid for Pic-nics
and Excursions.
T'HB Complete Ontlit
(carriage paid • for
H A.LF-A-CRO W N #
including everything re-
quired. ready for use, and
fully illustrated, printed
directions. Additional
packages of three whites,
Four Pence, or Is. 3d. per
dozen plates. Everything is quite simpleand easy. Jakesrrally
good portraits, that willlast. a life-time. Take the outfit m your
pocket to a pie-mo or excursion and everyone will be delighted
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb
a
35/- POST FREE
Two=Piece
Flannel Suits.
In Green, Grey or Brown Stripes ;
splendidly tailored; have the smart roll
collar; seam and vent in back ; two out-
side patch pockets ; unlined ; side pockets
in trousers, with loop for belt.
Single Breasted Style, 35/“ t 0 4-5/“
Double Breasted Style, 37/6 to 63/-
POST FREE ANYWHERE.-
f i nlTeTy’s,
The Men’s Fashion House,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
IN BANANA LAND
“ Kobbi ” : Bananaland’s Legislature
wrestles with tremendous items at times. I
fear that the strain will be too much -for it.
Lor instance, the Bill to amend the Local
Authorities Act provides that it shall be no
longer necessary for a man to run in front
of a steam roller with a red Hag, scaring
horses out of their wits, and causing car-
riages and wheelbarrows to shy, and making
dogs flee into the next parish. Furthermore,
local bodies are no longer to be liable _ for
the loss of stock poisoned by the noxious
weeds which the local body should have
killed but didn’t. And —this is the real
thundering proposition—the age of the small
boy who is allowed to bathe in the ladies’
compartment at the seaside is reduced from
eight years to five, iu the best interests of
morality.
Adversity brings strange railway termini
as well as strange bedfellows. (Queensland,
though it has less than 700,000 people, has
more mileage of railway at work, and more
under construction, than any other State.
Now the slump has struck the loan market,
and items like this begin to happen: —
Instructions have been issued to the resident en-
gineer on the Wallal-Tobermory railway construction
works that operations are to be suspended at the end
of the permanent way, which is 52 miles-.out in
barren, dry country, but the line is to be brought up
to date and made fit for traffic before entirely ceasing
operations. A number of men will be thrown out of
work.
Lines are stopping every here and there —
at a corner peg, or a dead tree, or a bees’
nest, or an ant-heap, or any old place at
which a line can stop without falling down
and breaking its neck. Everything possible
will be done to turn the lines into revenue-
producers so far. as they have gone, but the
line which only goes as far as it has gone,
and there stops unexpectedly up against no-
thing, is seldom a first-class revenue-pro-
ducer.
The Bulletin receives a strenuous and
most interesting letter, and the heading on
the notepaper, of all the marvels in the
world, is “Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion of Brisbane”:—
Silly Bull, builds a great fleet, and depends on his
enemeys and foreign trusts, suplying him with food,
a little of what will happen, if he has a scrap with
Unkle Sam, over the Panama ditch, the cliping
(enclosed) shows, Germany joining in, result, result
famine for Bull,
A point in the increase of insanity in Britain, not
noticed in a late Bulletin, continental nations are
quietly shipping their feble minded to Britain, which
receives them with open arms, a few years ago Canada
was guled into taking a few thousand feeble minded
of Russias hands, the doborookas, imigrants, or some
name like that, the croud that turned out their horses
and cattel, and hitched their women folk to the
plowes, under free imigration, Australia, is geting a
big percentage of similar goods, no continental nation
wants to part with its sound saine people,
The finger print fake, the police just grab the
first, known crimnal, put his fingre prints in their
I >ooks, get some artical from the scene of the crime
put his finger prints on that, result a cohviction,
thats all they want, the Police dog, that so much fus
s made of, worries any solitary person that comes in
his way, this is kept dark, he never wories a crimnal,
he is ready for it, and shoots it when it overhauls
him.
The 3rd degree is simply the torture system of the
ancients, under it the editor of the Bulletin and Hop
cpud be made confess, to murdering Adam and Eve,
cooking Cain on a gridiron boiling Abel in a billy,
up a dry gully, covered with water, ten feet deep,
and eating them for lunch like a kangaroo, that had
become fosilised, a million years ago,
Re posible scrap betwen Bull and sam, the Jap will
be round this wiv, whats our national Government
doing, nothing, killing time, jawing with the opposi-
tion, who want to get comand and do a darned sight
less than nothing, the point seems to be is there any
sanity, among the rulers of the British dominons,
Abolish the law shark, and crime will disapear, he
is the erimnals righthand, the hold he is geting on
everything, its dangerous to buy a box of matches,
or a pound of tripe, without consulting a solicitor,
buyer may have a law suit lasting years brought
against him,
To healthyfie cities, shoot all aldermen they are a
tie with flies and dogs for spreading sickness, applies
to Brisbane mostly, which ties with Pekin for filthi-
ness, evidently this city is trying to cultivate an
oubreake of plague, or smalpox object, to forse the
Goverment to make the sewers, and charge the costs
to the country, save property oweners from paying,
the cleanest premises in Brisbane are bungs pubs,
these wougers woud. abolish, Wouser and filth are one,
Bung is a dull man or he coud give the wouser hell,
per medium of the picture showes, where he coud be
showen in all his hedious vileness, they are splendid
subjects for filims, in Brisbane pubs and • boarding
houses no bell is now rung at meal times, as the
flies when they heard it, rushed from the filth in the
rear premises, straight on to the tucker on the table,
without wiping their feet on the doormat. —A. Blok.
Q. aboriginals have £20,153 to their credit
in the State Savings Bank, and the Denham
crowd is said to have a special missionary
touring the various camps to warn Warrigal
against the danger of putting his money in
the Commonwealth institution.
Just 50 years ago this month, the Govern-
ment of Bananaland introduced a Militia
Bill to provide for the raising of an effective
force of 50,000, with 50,000 of reserves. The
Bill was rejected. And even to-day there
are some people who yell loudly that “the
time is not yet ripe.” It makes one feel very
old.
Douglas shire council has just had the
bum-bailiff put in. The habit of loan crept
on it up to £3411 55., and its assets were
mainly the audacity to ask for more. Now
the Government wants money so badly itself
that the Treasury would almost boil down
a sheep that had died a natural death. So
it has appointed the shire clerk as receiver,
and whenever he sees tuppence in the dis-
tance he is instructed to chase it till it drops
-—or he does.
This is the recent utterance of Queens-
land Labor-leader Ryan—
Not all the legislation in the world will compel
men to handle goods produced by scabs.
It is a noble sentiment. .And it is a pity
that just now, when .Labor is preuoimua.u
in the Australian Parliament and in two
State Legislatures, and when it is within an
ace of getting a majority in two more State
Legislatures, men are handling more “scab”
goods, cheap labor goods, long-hour labor
goods, nigger goods* Chinese goods, leper
goods and every utterly accursed kind of
goods than they ever did before in Aus-
tralia’s history. This is the circumstance
which makes real Democrats want to swear at
a lot of the so-called Labor leaders. Because
they have neglected to push up the tariff,
while pushing up local wages, imports have
risen to a figure never before dreamt of.
These imports climb over the tariff barrier
solely because of their cheapness. They re-
present the output of the sweated worker,
and the non-unionist, and the colored per-
son, and everybody else who is horrible and
objectionable. And the Labor party (God
rest its 50u1.!.) hasn’t one word to say against
the miserable business. It handles “scab”
LENNON , M.L.A,
(Queensland)
goods without a semblance of objection, so
long as they are the goods of tne foreign
“scab,” who works, in many cases, at one-
half the wages of the Australian “scab.” Gn
the plain evidence of figures, Labor, in Aus-
tralia, has become the ally of niggers and
Chinamen and sweaters to an extent that its
worst Tory predecessors never accomplished.
It is good to see Labor-leader Ryan strike a
noble attitude, but it isn’t good to know that,
even while he was attitudinising, Ryan’s
constituents and supporters on the wharves
were acting as beasts of burden to the “scab”
and the cheap labor person and the sweated
worker and the Cnow and the Missing Link,
on a scale that was never heard of in the
worst days of old Toryism.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 28, 1912.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Early next month we are to lose the Mac-
gregor chieftainess. The lady is to travel by
train to Melbourne, where the White Star
liner Medic will gather her in, and under-
take the delivery of the vice-regal goods in
the Cold Country.
The many tongues of gossip are now wag-
ging, to the effect that our Governor chiel
himsel’ has pit his bawbees into a heather-
covered estate in the land of theology and
oatmeal, and leaves us next March to get
on speaking terms with his crofter tenants.
I give the alleged information for what it
may or may not be worth.
Contralto Kirkby Lunn arrived here on
Friday, by the steamer Eastern. Almost
everything that was musical or unmusical,
or merely curious, was lying in wait for her
at the Centennial Hall, in order to extend
to her the hand-clap of welcome. Baritone
Shanks and the violinist with the floating
mane duly arrived, and were swallowed up
in eager, chattering waves of femininity, but
no Mrs. Lunn appeared. Then, when the
mob had begun to grow restive, a perspiring
secretary person rushed in and declared,
with great emotion, that some base-born car-
rier of luggage had gone astray with all the
Kirkby frills and the Lunn flounces, and that
he couldn’t be found, traced or discovered
anywhere on the limitless plain. Naturally,
the singer couldn’t show up until she got
some clothes, but the moment she had a rag
to wear the crowd was assured that her
smile would be in evidence. After another
pause of an hour, or thereabouts, a lace-clad
vision, topped off with a chic rose-colored
dream in straw, glode like the ghost of
melody into the tumult of greeting which had
been gathering force with each expectant
moment. M.L.A. Macartney murmured no-
thing worth speaking of in a pleasant way,
and then the Kirkby Lunn hand began to
shake the multitudinous naw of those as-
sembled to do her honor. After that, every-
body went home hungry, hapoy, and carry-
ing her proud fingers daintily before her.
To-night, the lady with the bulbul in her
throat is warbling to a well-filled Exhibition
Hall.
George V.’s understudy has been following
the dreary treadmill of show and church
bazaar. On Thursday he had samples of
both reputable sorrows —one at Brookfield,
the other at Sandgate. On Friday he spoke
words of cheer and comfort to the Beenleigh
farmers.
Premieress Denham looked in on the folk
in the hamlet of Dalby during the week, and
stayed under the mayoral roof. Mrs. Victor
Drury hostessed a bridge-party in the lady’s
honor, and her visit included such official
turns as opening a bazaar and smiling upon
the sanatorium and hospital.
Pretty Mrs. Leonard Turner and her equ-
ally pretty daughter left on Tuesday for
England. On Monday they gathered bunches
of their pals at Eschenhagen’s, and fed them
softly with the sandwich of farewell.
The N.S.W. bowling team returned to its
own green places on Friday, after spending a
thrilling week in our city. Some serious
business was done with the bowls; also, the
dissipations of the week included a euchre
party, a drag picnic—at which two of the
picnickers were gladly lost, and only recov-
ered with great difficulty—and an evening at
“Arcadia,” Hugh Black’s new show at New
Farm. At the euchre party, Mr. P. 0.
Sapsford captured a healthy silver rose-bowl
after a fine run, and bore it away with suit-
able and becoming blushes.
The consuls, vice-consuls and consular
agents went glad on Monday afternoon, and
took a large assortment of their frilled and
skirted friends down the river in the good
old ark Lucinda. The Wee Macgregors were
there, and most of the Very Best decorated
the decks and drank ozone in a social, inter-
national way.
Miss Marian Darvall, the pretty and popu-
lar damsel, whose engagement to Mr.
Matthew Wilkinson was recently made
known to public fame, was handed a cabin
trunk and suit case by the staff of the Rail-
way Department, with which she has held
a position for the last 12 years. Yesterday
she gave up her job, and all who saw her go
said they were sorry to lose her, and very
glad she was leaving, because she deserved
something better.
The Macgregor is at present at Rockhamp-
ton, whence he will be lured to preside at a
meeting of that mysterious and somewhat
cheerless body, known as the Public Morality
Council.
The Foxton aide is week-ending at Pike-
dale, where the Whites have gathered to-
gether much youth and beauty of the female
and other sorts.
The Symes lady, who recently got up a
tennis tournament, slaked the thirst of a
number of girleens with tea on Wednesday,
in order to mark the fact that the incident
was closed.
The Camerons of Lochiel offered sacrifice
to haggis and other strange gods on Thurs-
day. The affair was by way of “Gordspeed”
to the Dicksons, who are going to live in
your suburb.
WORM
THROWING.
A suffragist eluded the police on the Balmoral
golf links, and threw a worm in the face of Mr.
Churchill, First Lord of the Admiralty.
A suggestion for Coastal Defence..
The Q.W.E.L.-ers have been out ©n the
rampage. I really can’t tell you all the
things they resoluted, because they were
quite beyond the comprehension of your
Jane, but I know that four males,, .and
enough female enthusiasm to go a long way,
were fed to-day at Dutton Park, with re-
marks from the lips of Barnes and Wyn
Williams, together with logic ©f ham and
wisdom of roast fowl.
Yours breathlessly,.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Treasurer Barnes (Budget speech) : “'"'We
must resist the encroachments of the Federal
Government.” Home Secretary Appel: “We
don’t want to put our savings to foreign
uses, anyway.” This was apropos of the
Savings Bank squabble, and illustrates ad-
mirably the State Rights view of the Aus-
tralian Government, which is alluded to as
a “foreign” Power.
Dr. Elkington, Q. Health Commissioner,
after a visit to the Far North, remarked that
“infantile mortality was a great test of
healthy climatic conditions.” Just notice
how Bananaland stands the test by latest
figures. Infantile mortality for the whole
Commonwealth (1910) was 74.81 per 1000;
N.S.W., 74.73; South Aus., 70.70; Vic.,
76.85; W.A., 78.18; Tasmania, 101.68
Quensland, 62.9 per 1000. For a country
that is supposed to be unfit for the white
race to live in. this is not too bad, especially
when one recollects that the infantile death
rate for England and Wales for 1909 (latest
figures obtainable) was 109 per 1000.
Bananaland’s “Liberal” Government
opened its little purse to the extent oL
£23,108 “to improve the position of teachers,
financially and otherwise,” as the Budget-
speech has it. As the State has more than
2700 teachers, the much-boomed improve-
ment amounts to less than £9 per annum.
It isn’t much “financially,” and it doesn’t
seem to be anything “otherwise.” But it is
so long since the pedagogue in Bananaland
saw a lift that he is gripping the mite with
both hands. He has grave fears that it will
be a long time before he gets another £9,
financially or otherwise.


n
' ' : '■ ’ '
*■ •
—-
mniimWWl 11 In V II T II
Sllii
JO
N°
■is
m
■
WA
M*
k
. m
<*> S\
mm
M
iT
II
:<*
/
1
rC
#
!*■ <■-
w
I
n
n
'
ill
; '
iH H|
I
V
illliilii
lilf
i '
m
.: ■
m
m
m
iltlil
M
i
44
4 4
Do you Know a good thinj* for to-day?
Yes. sir ; WATSON S No. 10 ! ”
* 9


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
a S.S. WAKOOL, via SUEZ CANAL.
Wireless installed. ‘Twin Screw.
SALOON 7 ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB Ic £2O.
CAPETOWN k NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT &. SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St
Mm, bourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE' ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
I£?j)ank of |)ortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
.1. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM EOUSYTII, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE : 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. It. LOVE.
Bankers: TIIE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
j)ank of Beni Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. . . . . £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up • .. .. . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE,
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED.. . £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir Wii.i.iam P. Manning, lit), Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, ICsq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. . . .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid tip . . .. .. 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 18!)S specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; Jbhn
Cameron, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.; Geo. Edw. Burning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum: 2
years and over, at the rate of 44 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branched London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Suiddms
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
TIIOS. BROWN k SONS, Ltd., Brisbane k Townsville.
New Zealand Insurance
C°.,
Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH : 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnbtt & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Leave Sydney.
Oct. 18
Nov. 16
Dec. 14
All Steamers fitted with Wireless. *Third-class only.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£llo (First-class each way);
iB2 (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable with Holt’s
Blue Funnel Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and 0. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD.. Agents in Australia
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong,, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to three months, and
' costing £5 to £25.
fdg
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
fd
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Ivt..
M.L.C., President.
The lion. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq. „
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office-George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq.. .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: IV. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: IV. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: 13 Eircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Danger, Esq.; Don. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manage: : F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . . . . . £538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
■2l BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the "World.
The Colonial mutual (jife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, Iv.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Service
To Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
By the Up-to-date Steamships
“ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
“ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
“ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
“WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
And other welUknown Steamers, fitted with all
conveniences for the comfort of passengers.
Tickets interchangeable with other Inter-State
Companies.
Also First-Class Return Tickets to Melbourne, Ade-
laide and Brisbane available for return journey by
Rail under certain conditions.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers.
Further information on application to—
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Uiimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Port*.
S.S. Warilda (7713 tons).
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, October 26,
carrying Ist and 2nd
Saloon and Steerage
Passengers.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, Oct, 5.
S.S. Wollowra, Oct. 12.
S.S. Grantala, Oct. 19.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable -after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN R.M. LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE PACIFIC TOURS
returning from San Francisco via
Rarotonga, Papeete and Wellington.
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON via SUEZ CANAL.
*T.S.S. DORSET.
11,000 Tons. W. D. PRENTICE, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
BRISBANE, Bth OCTOBER.
SYDNEY, about 15th OCTOBER.
MELBOURNE, about 22nd OCTOBER.
ADELAIDE, about 29th OCTOBER.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-Class.
Fares .. .. £4O £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by—
*T.S.S. WILTSHIRE, leaving Sydney about 12th
November.
*T.S.S. AYRSHIRE, leaving Sydney about 10th
December.
*Fitted with Wireless.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & CO., Melbourne
and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
m
South Sea
... and ...
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, OCTOBER 8.
T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, NOVEM. 5.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), R.M.S. AORANGI, October 5. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.
s.s. MOANA, arriving Sydney, November 12.
There is also a service everv 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. Talune, October 22.
(Maheno, from Sydney, October 16, connects.)
t All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation fo the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation. PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
IF YOU LIKE DETECTIVE STORIES
you should not miss reading “The
Drawn Blind,” appearing in The Lone
Hand each month.


TEN DAYS TO LONDON
FROM SAN FRANCISCO.
Sydney to San Francisco in 19 Days.
Via Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu. Saves 3000
miles ocean travel. Includes: South Sea Islands,
Yosemite Valley, Rocky Mountains, Grand Canyon,
Niagara Falls, etc.
ROUND WORLD TICKETS issued to return by
all Suez and Cape Lines. Round Pacific Tickets,
Covering China, Japan, America, and Islands, at
Low Rates. For Rates of Passage and Freight apply
OCEANIC STEAM SHIP CO.,
44 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel., 2282 City.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Pearl of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS to ALL UNITED STATES
POINTS, also to EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-
WORLD TOURS in conjunction with all lines.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
AROUND THE PACIFIC TOURS, returning from
VANCOUVER, via Honolulu, Suva and Auckland.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, October 5.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, November 2.
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
<£500.000.
Fire insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United ” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
DRIVATE HOSPITAL.
4 MOUNT WISE,
Three Minutes’
Walk from High Street
Electric Tram,
Mercer Road,
Malvern.
This has been renovated and put in perfect
order, and newly furnished throughout.
Hot and Gold Baths.
Own Cows and Poultry kept.
Beautiful position—-Fine, Commodious House
and Grounds.
Efficient Nursing Staff.
Proprietress: MISS ILMA TOOMATH.
V Telephone Number 1435, Malvern.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
gdf
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES —Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
. bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
gdf
Install
At most it e
Lighting.
For true lighting
efficiency and economy,
install an Atmoslite
Air-Gas Machine. It
is intensely brilliant,
soft to the eyes, hy-
gienic, safe and auto-
matic: "
Equally suitable for
heating and cooking.
Get the facts. Write
for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
LAMPiroUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney. *
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.^
rfKtAcr*
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three Per Cent, per annum allowed on all Deposits up to £3OO.
Agencies now open at local Post Offices
throughout practically the whole of Victoria.
Melbourne, 15th July, 1912.
MELBOURNE AGENCY : 317 COLLINS STREET.
DENISON MILLER , Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS (1 W TyIpES) NEW
gd
Each "BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT (£L SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney
•' fJ » ■ \
OSTRICH PLUHES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10 6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Tiib Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprising-ly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on torses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
The Dictionary of Banking 1 .
A Concise Encyclopaedia, of
Banking' Law and Practice.
By WILLIAM THOMSON, Bank Inspector.
In Half Leather. Gilt Top. Crown 4to. 563 pp. lOin. by 7Jin.
English price, 21/- net.
Full of Facts on hundreds of subjects in connection
with Banking upon which knowledge is daily required.
20 Copies ordered by a single Bank.
Write for f ull detailed Prospectus of this, and of many other books which tvill interest you.
OF ALL PRINCIPAL SYDNEY BOOKSELLERS.
London: SIR ISAAC PITMAN &£ONS, LTD., t Amen Corner, EC. [3
fg
C API L LARI N E
The Moustache Grower.
You can have a fine, manly moustache quickly and easily if you will
take advantage of CAPILLARINE —the 25 Years’ renowned Moustache grower.
It simply cannot fail. Send' for a jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR. Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER (worn at night) shapes
the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post Free.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
Craig &, Aitßen,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
fd
A TRIUMPH OF
ENGLISH TAILORING
The Finest Raincoat in the World.
VERY LIGHT WEIGHT.
Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s
RAGLAN SLIP ON
-SOI-
Graceful Shape.
BEAUTIFUL CLOTH.
A Very Handsome Coat.
50 1-
Carnage Paid.
Duty Free.
Material:
Plain Twill Garberdine.
Carriasre Paid.
Duty Free.
Six Shades: Olive Green, Dark Green,
Biscuit, Fawn, Mid Brown, Mid Grey.
Check Waterproof Lining, 3/6 extra.
Best English Tailored. Will wear for years.
Order at once, enclosing Postal Order. Coat will
...be seu.ti.bv' return mail (post paid). You will.be
more than delighted.
State height, also size round chest (Ladies over
bodice or blouse, Gentlemen over waistcoat).
NUNN & CO., 1
High-Class Tailors
(Home and Export),
4 City Read, LONDON. E.C., England
gfd
PRELIMINARY NOTICE
Important Cattle Sale
BUSHY PARK STUD HEREFORDS,
KAI IWI, WANGANUI,
NEW ZEALAND.
"THIS FINE HERD was founded upon Mr. James
I- Stuckey’s renowned TE RANGITUMAU HERD.
It has even been still further improved from time to
time by importations from the best strains of Great
Britain. Its present owner, Mr. FRANK MOORE,
can confidently claim that it is unrivalled in the
Australasian Colonies for EVENNESS OF TYPE,
CONSTITUTION, EARLY MATURITY, and GRAND
RICH DARK COLOR.
The whole of these FAMOUS CATTLE are to be
sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in APRIL, 1913.
ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT RESERVE.
The Sale is a Genuine Clearing one, and is NOT
merely a reduction for culling purposes.
The BUSHY PARK HERD includes,
approximately:
101 COWS now in calf, and which will be again
in calf. From these are expected about forty-
five Heifer Calves this season.
29 HEIFERS, two-years-old. They will be in calf
at time of sale.
23 HEIFERS, yearlings.
5 COWS, old, in calf.
These latter are the only OLD cows in the lot.
The, foregoing constitute an aggregate of
203 FEMALE STUD HEREFORD
CATTLE.
To this total must be added a
LARGE NUMBER OF STUD BULLS
of different ages. The majority of these will be rising
two years at time of sale.
These MAGNIFICENT. CATTLE are practically all
eligible for entry in the ENGLISH HERD BOOK,
and they will be in-splendid condition when sold.
The. Sale of the BUSHY PARK STUD HERE-
FORDS is a unique opportunity for New Zealand
breeders to improve their Herds, or for Australian
and South American buyers to introduce a new
strain of blood.
In the conduct of the Sale there will act in con-
junction—
MURRAY, ROBERTS AND CO., Ltd.
FREEMAN R. JACKSON AND CO.,
WILLIAMS AND KETTLE, Ltd.,
Auctioneers.
Cablegrams of inquiry can be addressed: “Pinfire,”
Wellington, New Zealand.
yr.
<
■■
- m
■ &>.
■
Ml
r
1 /‘TTN
/
owmoft
MALT
¥iiICSR
fMmVffi f&(M
MftilpMl'vE'V:
I'.v* ii, i:jt * - ■ !
, • .vN
1
C HAMPI ON5|
VINEGAR:
UNCLAIMED MONEY&PROPERTY.
DOUGAL'S REGISTER to N EXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., &c., price
5/-,480 p ages. Rob ertson’s, booksellers, Mel boo rn e,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
OOUCAL & CO., 151. STRAND. LONDON, ENCLAND.
( flstrt hh'shpd nvrr fW Vpnrft.)
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
To Teamsters and Others.
T' ENDERS are hereby called for the haulage of
1 large quantities of Sawn Pine and other timberk
from Canungra to Jimboomba. Teamsters may tender
for carrying with one or more of their own teams, oh
with the Pompany’s teams. The lowest or any other
tender not necessarily accepted.
Specifications and full particulars on application tt>
T.VHKYS LIMITED WOOLLOtONGABBA, BEAU-
DESERT or CANUNGRA. Tenders close on 20th
October prox.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the.
various books are published in London. The
prices in brackets are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria. New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d.: p,er pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
Narrative of the Tour in India of Their
Majesties Ring George V. and Queen
Mary, and of the Coronation Durbar
held at Delhi, 12th December, 1911.
By the Hon. John Fortescue. With 32
Illustrations. Bvo. 10/6 net. (12/6).
*. ‘ This work constitutes the official record of the
tour and Durbar.
AUSTRALIA: THE NATIVE’S
STANDPOINT. By WILL. J.
SOWDEN, President of the South
Australian Board of Directors, Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association. Extra
Crown Svo.
Dr. SVEN HEDIN’S NEW BOOK.
FROM POLE TO POLE. By Dr.
SVEN HEDIN, Author of “Trans-
Himalaya : Discoveries and Adven-
tures in Tibet,” etc. With Illustra-
tions and Maps. Extra Crown Svo.
THE ADVENTURES OF AN ELE-
PHANT HUNTER. By JAMES
SUTHERLAND. Illustrated. Svo.
FOLK-TALES OF BENGAL. By
the Rev. LAL BEHARI DAY, Au-
thor of “Bengal Peasant Life,” etc.
With 32 Illustrations in color by
WARWICK GOBLE. Crown 4to.
15s. net. (18s.)
Also, Edition de Luxe, limited to 150
copies, printed on hand-made paper,
and bound in vellum. Demy 4to.
425. net. (505.)
GREEN WILLOW AND OTHER
JAPANESE FAIRY TALES. Bv
GRACE JAMES. With 16 Illustra-
tions in color by WARWICK
GOBLE. Svo. ss. net. (65.)
A COLONY IN THE MAKING. Or
Sport and Profit ill British East
Africa. By LORD CRANWORTH.
With Map and Illustrations. Svo.
12s. net. (155.)
PRINCIPLES OF AUSTRALIAN
AGRICULTURE. By W. CATTON
GRASBY, F.L.S., Agricultural Edi-
tor of the Western Mail, Lecturer
in Agriculture and Fruit Growing,
Perth Techincal School, etc., etc. Il-
lustrated Crown Svo. 4s. 6d.
The West Australian. — “Likely to make ap-
peal to a very wide circle of readers. .. .Its
statements of fact are characterised by a simple
directness and clarity that cannot he too highly
Commended in a text-book of the kind.”
COLONIAL LIBRARY.
PAPER COVERS - - 2/6 each.
CLOTH BOARDS - - 3/6 each.
NEW VOLUMES.
599 MARRIAGE. By H. G. WELLS,
Author of “Tono-Bungay,” etc.
614 MRS. LANCELOT: A Comedy
of Assumptions. By MAURICE
HEWLETT, Author of “The Forest
Lovers,” etc.
615 THE REEF. By EDITH WHAR-
TON, Author of “The House of
Mirth,” etc. (Shortly.)
616 THE CROCK OF GOLD. By
JAMES STEPHENS, Author of “The
Charwoman’s Daughter.”
617 THE GRIP OF LIFE. By AG-
NES and EGERTON CASTLE,
Authors of “The Secret Orchard,” etc.
618 ONE WOMAN’S LIFE. By
ROBERT HERRICK, Author of
“Together,” etc.
610 VAN CLEEVE. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “Nathan Burke,”
etc.
605 PAN’S GARDEN. A Volume of
Nature Stories. By ALGERNON
BLACKWOOD, Author of “The Cen-
taur,” etc. Illustrated by GRAHAM
ROBERTSON.
“They reveal Mr. Blackwood once again as
the possessor of a unique talent among present-
day writers.”— Daily Graphic.
613 HOW ’TWAS. Short Stories and
Small Travels. By STEPHEN REY-
NOLDS.
“The work has a right to a place' among the
best of its kind that is being done to-day.”
—Literary World.
612 THE FRIAR OF WITTEN-
BERG. By WILLIAM STEARNS
DAVIS, Author of “a Friend of
Caesar,” etc.
“The events of those three ,_or four amazing
years from 1517 to 1521 make a fine back-
ground and stiffening for a capital early six-
teenth century romance. ..-The k’dnapping and
temptation of Walter, the plot against Luther,
and the confronting of lisa and Marianna are
carried through fearlessly, with a sound know-
ledge of what life meant in the sixteenth cen-
tury.”— The Times.
611 THE SIGN. By Mrs. ROMILLY
FEDDEN (Katherine Waldo Doug-
las).
“The outer and the inner life of that strange
country of brutes and mystics (Brittany) is
unfolded with delicate art; and the novel,
quietly and warmly written, has much beauty of
thought and feeling.”—Times.
\• A Complete. Catalogue of McMillan’s
Colonial Library will be sent on appli-
cation.
MACMILLAN 8 CO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
HERR L. D’HAGE, of the Vienna Conservatoire, is
receiving PUPILS FOR VIOLIN AND
PIANO. Students prepared for all examinations.
For terms and particulars applv
W. H. PALING AND CO., LTD., ■
George Street, Sydney.
Kit MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
Again on the Pinnacle of Popularity
with
Oscar Straus’s Enthralling Musical Play,
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDI ER.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
JIEATKEROYA L, S Y D X E Y.
Direction: J. C. WILDAMSON. Ltd.
THE PLAY OF THE HOUR.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Most Powerful Dramatic Episode Australia has
yet seen,
Wm. C. de Mille’s Striking Three-act Play,
THE WOMAN,
THROBBING WITH INTENSITY.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
ALACK T~H EAT R E. SYDNEY.
Lessee": ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-lessees : PHILIP LYTTON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SPRING RACE CARNIVAL SEASON.
Special Revival, by request, of the Australian Drama,
removed at the Zenith of Success,
THE GIRL FROM WAYBACK.
MISS MADGE HOPE as THE GIRL FROM WAYBACK.
Popjidar Melodramatic Prices. Box Plan at Paling’s.
RATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SXDiNEi.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
LES BOW, Trick Cyclists & Grotesque Tumblers.
THE JOURDAINE QUARTETTE, Operatic Artists.
CORRIE & BAKER, Cross-Fire Talkers & Dancers.
MISS BEAUMONT COLLINS, supported by her London
Co., in the One-act Comedy, “ Bedfellows.”
HARRY SADLER, Comedian.
TED HERBERTE, Australia’s Greatest Descriptive.
ADELI’HI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gicorgr Marlow, Ltd.
TIIE SUCCESS OF THE CITY. .
GEORGE MARLOW’S ENTIRELY NEW AND FAMOUS
DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in the Fascinatingly Beautiful Red Indian Romantic Play,
QUEEN OF THE REDSKINS
A STUPENDOUS PRODUCTION.
Popular Prices : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/- Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
H E
LYCEUM,
SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No. Extra Fee).
. M. C. A. HALL, SYDNEY/
Direction ; J. & N. TAIT.
FAREWELL SEASON of
The Renowned Diva of Humorous Song,
MARGARET COOP ER,
Supported bv HER COMPLETE COMPANY.
NEWCASTLE : KING’S HALL,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, and MONDAY, OCTOBER 7.
Box Plan and Day Sales at Nicholson’s.
UG
OF WAR.
EVERY
TUG OF WAR.
EVENING.
HUGH D. McINTO.SH’S
• £lOOO CARNIVAL.
IN THE NEW ROOFED STADIUM.
FIVE HUNDRED PICKED ATHLETES.
International Contest. All-comers’ Championship.
Army and Navy Tug. Amateur Challenge Shield.
Singlehanded Champions’ Challenge Pulls.
Box Plan at Deery’s, Eastwav’s and the Australia.
Promoters—HUGH D. McINTOSII, the Stadium, and
FRANK MUSGROVE, 289 Pitt Street.
RICKABDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NELLA WEBB, the Incomparable American Diseuse.
TAYLOR & ARNOLD, Greatest Rag-time Comedians.
THE THREE SISTERS MACARTE, in Japanese Seena.
MARIE QUINTRELL, one of Australia’s Sopranos.
LA FREYA, in a series of Original and Artistic Visions.
RALLIS & WILSON TRIO, Acrobats and Vocalists.
ALBERTO MARINI, Tenor Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
And a. GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
P E It A H OCS E. M E I, It O U It X E.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
D’ARC’S MARIONETTES.
CIITNKO, tlie Wonderful Young Juggler.
SCHENK BROS., Sensational Equilibrists.
MDLLE. MARGO, the Mystic Lady.
MINNIE KAUFMANN, the Great Lady Cyclist.
BURNS & BENTLEY, the Acme of Simultaneous
Movement.
Plan at Allan’s. IPS"-PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
THE Australian Magazine—TllE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, (id.
Amusements.
■y JIEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
STUPENDOUS PRODUCTION
of the POWERFUL AND IMPRESSIVE DRAMA,
BEN HUK.
Dramatisation of General Lew Wallace’s Great Romance.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stails, 41- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
Sub-Lessees : Directors of Bert Bailey Co.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in
ON OUR SELECTION.
Adapted from the Famous Story of STEELE RUDD.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 5.
ALLEN DOONE AND COMPANY
in
The Great Patriotic and Musical Play,
SWEET COUNTY KERRY.
Prices 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
| | rr MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE RETURN OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
A STRONG C'AST OF FAVORITES.
M
LAST 1 NIGHTS of
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE QUA K E R CTRL.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
THENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
EDWARD REEYES
HUMOROUS, PATHETIC & DRAMATIC RECITALS.
First Recital : Saturday Evening-. October 12, Charles
Dickens’s THE CRICKET ON THE HEARTH.
Second Recital: Tuesday Evening, October 15, W H.
Fitchett’s DEEDS THAT WON THE EMPIRE
Third Recital : Thursday Evening, October 17, Shak-
speare’s OTHELLO.
Fourth Recital : Saturday Evening, October 19, Ralph
Connor’s THE SKY PILOT. Plan at Pianola Co.,
252 Collins Street. Direction : H. Faulkner Smith.
EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
Cremorne Gardens, Brisbane. School of Arts, North
Svdnev. Mechanics’lnstitute, Ballarat. N.Z.—Town
Hall, Wellington.
To open shortly : Exhibition Gardens, Adelaide ;
“ Olympia,” Perth ; and
“Arcadia” (late Royal Yacht Club), St. Kilda.
Direction amalgamated pictures
LTD.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace,
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock,
3d., 6d. and ]/-
EVENING PRICES : 2/-, 1/6,1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
YMPIA.OL Y M P I A.
Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S
O]
PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
\A# E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
rHE best WEST’S PICT URES, THE best
OF* ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MatihOes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at , 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiie World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he
seen ,at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vie.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FUCKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack'' Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d: to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf§.
4 CORRESPONDENT writes : “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
The Matchless Trick Match Boxes
yferramed Heads #»ll not dropoff
fit
farvlte only on spgoo/Bo*
Just like ordinary “ safeties,” but
such real startlers! You can
41 have” your Friends Ten Times
in a Minute. There are Ten
Trick Boxes, all different. Before
they have done laughing at one
Trick you catch them with
another and another, and yet
some more, until they are afraid
to pick up a match box. TftlPOO
Different Boxes for 1/-, or the Whole Ten for 2/6, posted
anywhere. The Union Go.. 299 Elisabeth St., Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAiILT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Opnression immediately
relieved by GEIMAUI-T & Co's INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Sold, by all ChemUts.
What You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
; '■
“One of the strange mysteries of fife is that those who have someth]mb' to
say worth hearing fio not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”—William Ewart Gladstone.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
of World-Wide Fame ——
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Qood Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fee« can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
gdf
554 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N,S.W.
Government Notices-
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, September 12, 1912.
OFFERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY. OCTOBER 14, 1912, from
persons willing to Sell Land in OXFORD
STREET, SYDNEY, to be centrally situa-
ted and generally suitable for Postal pur-
poses, having a frontage between 60ft. and
100 ft., with a depth of not less than 150 ft.
Offers, the lowest or any of which will not
necessarily be accepted, should be addressed
to the Commonwealth Works Director, Cus-
toms House, Sydney. /
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 21st September, 1912.
Tenders for Erection of Isolation Hospi-
tal Block, etc., at Quarantine Station,
Darwin, Northern Territory.
riTENDERS will be received until Noon
X on WEDNESDAY, 16th OCTOBER,
1912, for the erection of Isolation Hospital
Block and Attendants’ Quarters at the
Quarantine Station, Darwin, Northern Ter-
ritory.
Plans and specifications may be seen at
the Offices of the following:—
The Works Director for Victoria, 151
Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Works Director for New South
Wales, Customs House, Sydney.
The Commonwealth Works Registrar,
Customs House, Brisbane.
Tenders are to be sent to the Secretary,
Department of Home Affairs, Melbourne,
and should be endorsed: “Tender for Quar-
antine Buildings, Darwin.”
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 28rd September, 1912.
Tenders for External Painting to Build-
ings at Victoria Barracks, Paddington.
TENDERS will be received until Noon on
MONDAY, the 14th OCTOBER, 1912,
for External Painting to Buildings at Vic-
toria Barracks, Paddington.
Specification may be 'seen at the Office of
the Works Director for New South Wales,
Customs House (4th. Floor), Sydney, vo
whom tenders endorsed' as above should be
addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 23rd September, 1912.
OFFERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY the 21st October, 1912,
from persons willing to sell land at CAMP-
SIE, New South Wales, to be centrally situ-
ated and generally suitable for Postal pur-
poses, having a frontage of between 60 and
i 100 feet with a depth of at least 150 feet.
Offers, the lowest or any of which will
not necessarily be accepted, should be ad-
dressed to the Commonwealth Works Direc-
tor, Customs House, Sydney.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Business Announcements.
Tailor-Made Costumes
New Patterns Just
Opened for
SPRING
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
sis
m.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER FROM
GOUT Rheumatism?
Professor Berscham's Gout and Rheumatic
Cachets in boxes of t doz. 2S. 6d., 2 doz., 4s.
Incomparable, Alleviating and Harmless.
A trial box will prove efficacy. Posted to any
address in the Commonwealth
- Box No. 031, G P.O , Melbourne. Vic
/WlD'*
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without (
Inconvenience
In
48 hours,
lack Capsale heart the ame W“
gd


As an entertainer
The EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
is a wonderful thing.
It brings the talent of
the world’s greatest
artists into the home
and places it at the
disposal of whoever
cares to listen.
There is an EDISON
PHONOGRAPH at a
price tosuit every purse.
Call on the nearest Edison dealer and have
him demonstrate the Edison Phonograph to
you.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
HAVE YOU A BAD LEO
with Wounds that discharge or otherwise,
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your Anger on
the inflatoed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison which
defies all the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, or there
may be wounds; the disease, if allowed to
continue, will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hos-
pitals, and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not, for I can cure you. I do not say per-
haps, but I will. Because others have failed
is no reason I should. Send to the Drug
Stores for a box of
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS
which has never failed to cure the worst
cases of Bad Legs, Ulcerated Joints, Poisoned
Hands, Injured Knees, Bites, Carbuncles,
etc. Prepared by ALBERT, Albert House,
73 Farringdon Street, London, England.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
«aI»A IJtft
W CrOUT v
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by all Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
A A A 4
WHEN ORDERING
i
A.L&
Insist on
FOSTERS
AT THE BAR.
ANYWHERE.
EVERYWHERE.
AAAAAA
► ►►
‘Bugle
Brand’
*
UK. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYItOID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair.? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
KGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and' Sydney.
THE Australian Magazine—THE EONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, Gd.
The (
Directors
Colonial
Mutual Fire Insurance Company Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: 60 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
-V. J. SADDLER (Chairman), W. M. HYNDMAN, JAMES H. RILEY, Hon. AGAR
WYNNE.
DEPARTMENTS OP BUSINESS:
* ire,
Plate Glass,
Sprinkler,
Public Risk,
Marine,
Burglary,
Employers’ Liability,
Motors,
Live Stock,
Workers’ Compensation,
Lifts,
Fidelity Guarantee,
Personal Accident and Sickness, Customs and Administration Bonds.
W. TUCKER, General Manager.
ONE OF THE
Secrets of a Happy Home
is a
CHEERFUL LIGHT.
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Limited,
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HA IN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
No home can possibly be happy where the LIGHTING AND HEATING System is faulty.
While the Head of the Household is displeased, every person therein is miserable.
Among: the difficulties that contribute to the servant trouble are BAD LIGHTING AND
HEATING.
Instal Quirk’s Air Gas System
THE LIGHT OF AUSTRALIA,
The Cheapest of all Lights on the Market.
CHEAPER even than COAL GAS, and a much superior light.
A GREAT BOON TO THE HOUSEWIFE ON LAUNDRY DAY. No extra heating by big fires.
A GREAT CONSIDERATION IN HOT CLIMATES, besides being labor saving.
The FINEST HEATING AGENCY known for COOKING.
A Magnificent, Steady Light for the BILLIARD ROOM AND LIBRARY.
A SYSTEM THAT SHOULD BE IN EVERY COUNT It Y HOMESTEAD and Shearing Shed, in
the Men’s Quarters, and everywhere. ONE PLANT WILL SUFFICE FOR ALL.
QUIRK’S AIR GAS LIGHT
besides being SUPERIOR, is the CHEAPEST LIGHT KNOWN, is NON-EXPLOSIVE, NON-
POISONOUS, NON-ASPHYXIATING, and perfectly INODOROUS.
But you must have the QUIRK MACHINE, in order to be assured of a perfect result in all
climates. So keep firmly in mind the name of
QUIRK’S.
The Company supplies its own experts to instal all Plants, and Guarantees Efficiency. Esti-
mates and all Particulars may be obtained on application to
QUIRK’S LIGHTING & ENGINEERING LIMITED,
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for the Plaissetty Flexible Mantle, the most durable and cheapest of all.
u
u
vSAFETY^
Razoß
Strops
Itself.
Easy on
your pocket
easy on
your face.
Easy on your Pocket—
BECAUSE whatever the price
of a razor, you are at constant ex-
pense for new blades unless you
use an Auto Strop, the only self-
stropping Safety Razor made.
Easy on your Face —
BECAUSE you can strop the
blade to such keenness that the
touch of the razor when drawn
across your face feels like a delicate
caress.
ii^Zk
1
/ fry
26,
Auto Strop Razor with
rust-proof blades and horse-
hide strop in leather case.
Price in Australia ... 22/6
price in New Zealand, 25/-
Sole Depot for Australasia:
Partridge-—Abereromby, Ltd.,
York Chambers,
Market Street, Sydney.
fg
The First Successful
SELF-FILLING
FOUNTAIN PEN.
Always the Leader—without a Peer.
A.A
CUP
The “A. A.” Self-filling Foun-
tain Pen, for which there is no
substitute.
its self-filling feature is exclu-
sive. Filled by simply twisting
the button, holding the pen in
the ink, and, by a reverse twist,
the pen is filled.
Every pen guaranteed against
leakage and structurally perfect.
Fitted with 14ct. gold pens, any
style or size, plain black, chased
or mottled holders or mounted in
sterling silver filigree, gold filled
and mother of pearl.
The “A. A.” Clip, our 'latest
achievement, excels by far any foun-
tain pen clip yet produced. Made
in one piece of German Silver,
Sterling Silver, Gold Filled and
Solid 14ct. Gold. It holds per-
fectly firm and can be attached
almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “The
Modern ” Automatic Self-
Filling- Fountain Pen with
the “A.A.” Clip at your store,
write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS g CO.
PTY., LTD.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne,
Sole Agents and suppliers to the
trade for Australasia and New
Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN COv
Be sure your
Gold Pen
bears this
of Perfection
\ IDEAL 0 /
\ /
Waterrn ns Ideal pens are made of 14 Ct.
Gold, iridium tipped, in every degree of fine,
medium, and broad points. The action of an y
steel nib can be easily matched. The 80
distinct operations under which each of these
gold pens pass, guarantee satisfaction.
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FbuntainTfen
In 4 Styles—Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and
upwards; Safety and Pump-Filling, 15/- and
upwards.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
K oh-i-noor House, London, England.
PILES
To those who suffer the agonising tor-
ture of Piles, a really genuine cure
comes as a boon and a blessing.
Such a remedy is
PETERS*
PILE CURE
which brings immediate releif and last-
ing cure.
Blind, Bleeding, Protru-
ding or Etching Piles
yield to its firm but soothing influence.
Made in the form of an Ointment it is
Easy to apply.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
fdg
m
The Celebrated J
B Pianos
THE
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99=101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.


Face Completely Covered. Black-
heads, Too. Lasted Four Years.
Used Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment and Face Is Now Smooth.
“I was bothered with pimples and black-
heads in the worst way for over four years.
My face and arms were completely covered
d
gdf
with them. The pimples
would come out on my face
and fester all up. They
would scab over, and make
my face sore, besides being
so disfiguring that I shunned
my friends. I tried facial
cream balms and benzoine
with no effect.
“One night I asked a
friend what was good for
pimples, and he advised me
to try Cut!''lira Soap and Cuticura Ointment
which I did. I would wash my face first
with hot water and Cuticura Soap, and
then put on some Cuticura Ointment, let
it stay on five minutes, and then wash
my face again with the Cuticura Soap.
It would draw the blackheads out as nice,
and the pimples, oh say, it was one grand
relief to go among my friends and be jolly
again. After using two cakes of Cuticura
Soap and two boxes of Cuticura Ointment,
my face Is as smooth as if there never had
been a pimple on it. I cannot speak too
highly of the Cuticura Soap and Ointment,
ana 1 hope others will profit by them as much
as I have. I know they will after giving
them just one trial.” (Signed) Arthur E.
Caswell. R. F. D. No. 2, Portsmouth, N. H.,
JJ. S. A., May 6, 1911.
Although Cuticura Soap and Ointment are
sold throughout the world, a liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-p. book will
be sent free, on application to R. Towns &
Co., J)ept. 23K, Sydney, N. S W.
An Interesting:
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half’’ will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Hr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.B.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
d
Carters
ITTLE *
IVER
PILLS.
The 1 Wretchedness
of Constipation
Can quickly be overcome by
CAKTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable act surely and
gently on the liver. Cure Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, and Indigestion,
They do their duty.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS
gdf
g
fdg
fdg
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Qrowlng Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching' scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
1 had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, 1 fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell mb that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a: quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been.as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world —I am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest. .
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send "with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
!
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at bd.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our bs., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list ot
jewellery which we forward. dy continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. jou
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with , , t
anv other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import
£wXle?y, or we co™not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district, uur
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
m
BOND ST., SYDNEY.
our
post
fdg
F
R
E
E
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Eountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy snch and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
#
"• “SWAM SAFETY"
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
ox* Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers. -
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
fdg
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6.
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
•he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm in"
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
S
w_aiA
BIO2V
Benger’s is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress. ? '
• m#
for Children, Invalids and the Aged, enjoys
the universal recommendation of Medical men
in all cases of severe or temporary illness, and
during convalescence.
Food
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester,
England.
Fenger’s Food is sold in tinsbv Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Rimu”: Whaling seems to be a reviving industry
in these latitudes. Once the ships of American New
England hunted the sperm animal all over the Pacific.
Others bent on like adventure followed, and the man
with the harpoon was in some sense the herald of
progress and civilisation. Then the whales got
scarce, and the discovery of mineral oil reduced the
market for tried-out blubber, and slowly the fleets of
highly-flavored vessels faded away, and the shore en-
campments were forgotten. To-day the game has
been resumed on a better wicket, and the latest re-
sults suggests that it will pay something more than the
cost of overalls for the crew. The Ilananui 11. has
come back to Auckland (M.L.) from the Campbell
Islands, where, in spite of bad weather and indif-
ferent luck, it collected 19 whales. The Norwegians
at Jervis Bay (N.S.W.) have also been making oil
while the blubber hums. In 10 brief days they cap-
tured 15 of the animals which take a shower bath
from their own blow-holes. Old records and fish-
stories look as if they were going to be broken up
into very fine dust before such achievements as these.
* * * *
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : The death of Charlie
Kaufman removes a one-time prominent figure from
the sphere of Westralian mining and finance. He
first came here as assistant to London and Globe Fox,
who was drowned soon after as a result of a boating
accident on the Swan. Kaufman stepped # into Fox’s
shoes, and was instrumental in getting Whittaker
Wright and other heads of the L. and G. to palm the
now defunct Mainland Consols off on J. Bull.
Flushed with this success he and his principals
formed the then comparatively small Lake View and
Ivanhoe cos. into leviathan London corporations, with
much profit to themselves and those who got the tip.
Later on, Kaufman brought the Golden Horseshoe
under the notice of Whittaker Wright, but as the
latter wouldn’t look at it Kaufman got one of the
Reitlingers in tow, and the two formed it into a
London company, with a capital of £1,500,000, and
divided the plunder. After a lapse of some years,
Kaufman went into business on his own account. His
first big deal was the purchase of Merton’s Reward
from Fred Merton. It was in this flotation that
Rothschilds had their first and last deal in Westralian
mining by subscribing for 30,000 £1 shares, but
when the mine fell far short of representations their
money was returned. Kaufman’s last appearance on
the Westralian promotion stage was when he bought
and floated the Phillips River gold and copper mines.
Latterly he has been living quietly in London, and
when the writer saw him in Austin Friars two years
ago he confessed to being a physical wreck. While
things hummed he amassed a big fortune, but he is
said to have died poor.
The Sydney Gas Co. struck opposition at least
once in its life. Away back in 1869 a rival institu-
tion was projected, but the old concern bought up a
majority of its shares and ate it. It was a case of
dog consuming dog.
* * * *
Informative fusillade of barks from “Vic.”: The
Government has decided on certain power-dep6ts for
Melbourne railway electrification. One scheme (that
of Manton and Dare) is to harness the Big and Kiewa
rivers, Bogong High Plains. They have strong flow
always. Fed by range snows, and some fancy by
artesian sources. Steep courses, dropping 2000 ft. in
a few miles. Two water-courses would give a mini-
mum yearly supply of 32,000 horse-power, enough
for all Melbourne railways. Locality some miles
east of Bright. Huge turbines proposed. Power
carried 140 miles to Melbourne by copper cable. Un-
affected by industrial troubles, which may interfere
with coal. In Mexico electric power is transmitted
over 300 miles. San Francisco and Los Angeles are
lighted by power from vast distances. The Pacific
Electric Co. has water plants up to 93,000 horse-
power, also steam pla'nts of 96,000. At Niagara,
which supplies New York, there is available only
180 ft. fall (with immense volume), against 2000 ft.
(gentler) in Victoria. Water-power can always be
conveniently augmented by steam. In cheapness,
Manton and Dare challenge all rival schemes.
* * * *
On the authority of the Government Statist, the
shire of Deakin struck the lowest rate of Victoria’s
207 municipalities, viz., 9d. in the £, while Wal-
halla levied the highest, 2s. 6d. in the £. Seventy-
two councils were content to raise a rate of Is., and
lean on the Government for the rest of their in-
come. The, richest, the shire of Colac, last year
struck a rate of Is. 4d. in the £, and got the big-
gest State subsidy, viz., £l2OO. The City of Mel-
bourne, with rateable property, estimated to be
worth over thirty-six millions, levied a shilling rate,
although ratepayers paid 4d. more by way of a light-
ing rate. Melbourne City is the most brazen ex-
ample of a Socialistic paradise. Thirty per cent, of
its revenue comes from the sale of electric light, 14
per cent, from rental of its markets, shops and other
city property, and 23 per cent, from market fees,
licenses, etc. The service of the city loans
swallows 30 per cent, of its expenditure, street clean-
ing absorbs 8' per eefit., lighting 7 per cent., and
salaries and miscellaneous eat up 11 per cent., in-
cluding the Gawd Mayor’s income of £l5OO. Out
of a total expenditure of £364,760 a year, the City
Council gives the unsensational sum of £2485 to
charitable institutions.
* * * *
“F.”: The combined incompetence and infrequency
of the Victorian John Hop is rapidly turning the
local criminal into a gay and care-free leg-puller.
He mixes humor with crime as never before. Take
the case of Mrs. Green. She owned a superb asparagus
fern, which lived on her front verandah. Sikes,
beating the bounds, saw and collared the vegetable.
I Being too languid to take it up the street, he walked
round to Mrs. G.’s back door, and sold it to her, as
“a good match for the one on the verandah.” Then
having given three cheers for the system of sweating
| the police, he passed merfily on.
POLYSYLLABLES AND CHIFFONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Bourke-street draper advertises his sale as being
“gemnipolarie, galliardrous and gravitative,” whatever
that means.
Hail!
Soft-goods’ man.
Attendant to eternal feminine fancies,
Their fads and foibles, and whate’er enhances
Feminine beauty; to us ’tis educative,
Your sign, of words colossal,
Etymological apostle,
Inviting ladies to ambulate, peregrinate, penetrate
In search of bargains, “executors’ instructions, great
reductions,” provocative of ructions
Dear to them; truly your sale is “gravitative.”
Hail!
Encyclopaedia Britannica,
Inquirer into Eleusinian mysteries,
Delver into antiquated histories,
Pray make the task for us a bit less arduous;
I’ve searched in vain, for nary
In my Pears’ soap dictionary
Can I find a trace, but Galliard, ’tis bally hard, Oh,
tell me pard
Where can I find it, elusive polysyllable, my desire
is all unkillable, and as long as I can still able
I’ll worship the creator of that sesame—“Galliard-
rous.”
Hail!
Swear-word man,
Truly your profanity is exquisite,
’Tis the chance of a life time lost to those who miss
it.
I am enthused, my heart beats wild, hilaric
My vocabulary’s extended,
Full of words expressive-ended,
And when, suppose, some lout low-born, steps on my
corn—emotion-torn
I’ll paint the air blue with sulphurous adjectives,
devilish expletives, cursing his relatives,
Call him all kinds of fool, but cap with “Gemni-
polarie” !
Gemnipolarie, Galliardrous Gravitative
Good Lord ! ! ! ! !
VICTORIA.
W. H. M. PHILLIPS.


&«> Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell It.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
No. 914.
TO BE BOUGHT FROM
ALU TOBACCONISTS.
INSIST ON
OETTINO
(GBD)
I
WE CAN PROVE ALL WE ADVERTISE
OUR
PIPES
DEFY ALL
IMITATORS
THERE ARE
TWO THINOS
THEY CAN’T
PRODUCE
(1) OCR QUALITY
(2) OUR SHAPE.
BOVRIL
For
Health
and
Beauty
74
22
yemmgmn.
REPEATER "T
We are just as proud of the
REMINGTON .22 Repeaters as
we are of the REMINGTON Big
Game high-power Rifles —for just
as good reasons. There is no
other make of the .22 class built
to as high a standard.
The features that place the
REMINGTON .22 in a class
by itself are the real big
REMINGTON features—
Hammerless and Solid
Breech. You clean the
barrel from the breech.
There is perhaps a greater
difference between the
REMINGTON and other .22
Repeaters than is to be
found between rifles of any
other class.
A real rifle —the REM-
INGTON .22 Repeater
—shoots without ad-
justment. .22 short,
.22 long, or .22 long
Rifle Cartridges.
REMINGTON
ARMS—UNION
METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO.
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian
Representative,
P.O. Box 459,
Melbourne;
1349, Sydney.
{
Australian
F.stablishkd 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
V c
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury B,l |® intpre^T
tralian States or New Zealknd §&■?“ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing' Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during* any year, without notice or pa> merit of any tine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, De PJ lt J':p*? a ’ rlr ? a "
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. , Adrian
Knox. Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece i
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. W. APPEULY, Secretary.
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
WEDGE-CLIPS AND LOOPS MAY BE USED ON THE SAME DROPPER.
CHEAPEST DROPPER ON THE MARKET.
If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to—
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Leicester & Queensberry Streets, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
MI .MM ft" *******
.«• i\ A.tfl A* Oft *h
BEWARE
OF
DROPPERS
weakened by holes or cut-out slots
THEY SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
TNSULATE your foundation against the dampness of the soil by coating
the walls and floors with Congo Damp Course. This dense, waterproof
fabric can be buried in wet ground without the slightest danger of deteriora-
lt will keep the walls perfectly dry and will also repel vermin, ants, etc.
Any man can apply it properly. It is made in seven different widths to suit
all sorts of conditions. Sample on request.
Australian Agents:— Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Melbourne),
Pty„ Ltd., Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.,
Elder Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; Millars’ Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth, William
Hart & Sons, Launceston; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart. „ ...
n n n_ II H- Jl H «•
Congo.
Damp Course
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated W aters and Cordials.
&
-
55
PRIZES VALUE £3500
.. in the ..
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750
3rd Prize, value £250
2nd Prize, value £4OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglan.
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
CASTRATION— —EASY'
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas witli Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for .Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE—MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. Upfc EASY TO USE.
451
Post Free Anywhere .
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
dfg
SHARPE & SHARPE
' IS BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off
them—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain 1
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side of
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds. ,
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magm-
&<?
e<?
*i o
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
.Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
Th e shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-druin.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, wo cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair.
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night, and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
ORDER FORM.
STAB NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Bemover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address.
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank "Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mull register it.
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
£3
&
Tmxic
I LETTER
fd
fnSC/«00
PATTOX
COPYING
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Cook is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as you write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying
The letter is posted and the book
put away. 400 Octavo (Bin. by 5)
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
in N.S.C./200, Post Free for 3/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S.C./400, Post Free, for 5/.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. 3/- Post
Free; or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetic Pens, Sd. doz„ 2/- gross. Zanetic Writing Parer size
8x 5,1/. pkt„ 10 xB, 2/- Sample of the Zanetic Ink Paper cn
produces this result. Free, if stamped envelope sen ' „ Cmrland
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road, LEICESTER, England.


The BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
smoke:
SUNOL
■tg&n
The
Perfect
Pipe
Tobacco.
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug or Cut.
6
per lb,
Post
Free.
<gp>
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others In QUALITY, FINISH,
DESIGN and WORKMANSHIP.
'A
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Cut Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
Price O I
I W“0/
each
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette.
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
/ =
Jhree Witch^
VIRGINIA
OARETTES
&
',
f/nm
dMorris
&soi\isL t p
LONDON E.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
S
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
per 100,
Post Free.
Price
Simmons Ltd.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—City, Suburbs
and Newcastle
:
-.•w^La
MfL
mm
ml®
GOLDEN KEY”
Cigars de Luxe
(made in England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Connoisseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths—
MILD and MEDIUM.
Packed in HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
22/6
POST
FREE.
Try Sample Lot
of 5 Cigars,
packed in Cedar
216
Box-
Post Free.
Save “ GOLDEN KEY ’
Bands for Prizes.
STOCKMEN !!
LOOKpr-
This is the Saddle for HORSE-
BREAKERS and others handling young
horses, and ROUGH-RIDERS. Note
the following points: Long flaps, solid
points to panel, high extra-strong knee
pads, rough out-flaps. These details
all mean that you get just what you
want—A MAXIMUM OF GRIP WITH
COMFORT. The girth points come
below the flap and prevent the girth
buckle hurting the rider’s legs.
Made on EXTRA STRONG tree,
heavily plated all through, forged
stirrup bars, folded leather girth,
bevelled and numbered leathers, 4-bar
solid nickel stirrups.
Complete FREIGHT PAID to Any Port
in Australia or Railway
Station in N.S.W. ... cfcf©
gfd
Surcingle given in
FREE if you send us
Six Names of your
Friends who ride.
Write TO=DAY for our New
Illustrated Book,
“EVERYTHING FOR
THE HORSE.”
POST FREE from
EDWARD BUTLER & SONS LIMITED,
The Sydney Saddlers, 257 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.,
Seven
Rriaso Medals^
gfd
I Works r Birmmgnam 3 Engiand,
These series o!
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
n Tlie World-wide Whiskey.’
Burke’s
★ ★ ★
IRISH
A WhisKey of unique value,
mellow, light and digestive.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
(Paid-up Capital, £1,100,000.
Established 1849), are by
far the largest Shippers of
Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
Hi
Is the most perfect Preservative far the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIIM
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT. SOFT
AG VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. Uow to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiib
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is eacii posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s Oil posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket,Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
WorkshopllanDYiiooK, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, ls._ 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
l 8 2d. All Tiießulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets , .post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted' Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
.How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10b 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, lsdd.
9
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR «• PLAIN HOME TALK."
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Padres.
IT IS TREE PROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
A ature as it, exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
‘•and quesuons that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the actio-, of men and
women noth in and out of marriage. No mail or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
i*“BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skckkts and How to
"in at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing,-Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette,. Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, _ Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d,
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Tub Doctor, cures
tor all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made E.\sy, is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations' and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Sklf Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Hanuybook, Is 3d.
COMPLETE BOOKKEEPING, 2s. ELEMENTS OK SOCIAL
Science, _ 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped tii e Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d.. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron op Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Like in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash/ Established 26 l'ear.i.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mak* Ut>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 13
posted. N ew Tiucks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d uost. Du. Milford's Mid-
wipe’s Uandhook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Hanging Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Sd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 10C0 illus., leather
oound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and mu-iic com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age op Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Dyspepsia
Tortured by Wind Round the Heart—Skin Became
Sallow —Awful Complications Made Life a Burden.
Bile Beans are Invaluable in Mature Age
FOR all complications arising from
stomach and liver trouble, Bile
Beans are a sure and effective
remedy. Mr. H. Bannister, of Potts
Street, East ' Brisbane, Q., says:—
“Severe attacks of dyspepsia and acute bilious
bouts, followed by terrible pains in the head,
made my life a misery. My . whole system would
be shaken and strained by fits of retching. Bile
accumulated until it overflowed and caused me
much unpleasantness. My skin assumed an un-
natural yellow tint, and I always felt drowsy,
especially so after meals. Wind around the
heart, and pains in the chest and shoulders, all
added to my suffering, and, while these bouts
were on, my condition was very bad. After try-
ing a number of medicines, from which no good
resulted, I was persuaded to commence a course
of Bile Beans. I did so, and soon noticed that
the headaches and pains quickly disappeared.
After each dose I felt a corresponding benefit,
until, sffter a thorough course of Bile Beans, I
was once more enjoying perfect health, and I
have never been troubled with sickness since.
Although I have led a very strenuous life, now,
at 62 years of age, I feel in splendid condition.
m
m
m.
m
1
} 'M
< *n.
•'\
! Mr. BANNISTER , completely i
’ cured by Bile Beans.
“My wife, when at all out of sorts, takes a dose or two of Bile Beans, and
they soon put her right. She has also found them splendid for headaches.
Every worker should always keep a box of Bile Beans near at hand. A dose or
two, on the slightest sign of any stomach trouble, will speedily put things right.
The Standard Family Medicine.
u
n
cans
Bile Beans, being
mild in action, are
especially suitable
for children. All
mothers should keep
a box in the home,
for a dose or two in
time may prevent
much suffering and
expense. Bile Beans
are a fine tonic for
the jaded worker,
and the surest speci-
fic for all liver and
stomach troubles. Ob-
tainable of all chem-
ists and stores,
and 2/9 per box.
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day*
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If. on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexio
n.
The Men Who Sleep with
Danger.
[For The Bulletin.]
THE men who sleep with Danger
Are mostly quiet men;
And one may use a rifle,
And one may use a pen.
And some meet wrong with patience,
And some arise and strike ;
But in the big essentials
They're pretty much alike.
The men who go with Danger
Are mostly dreamy-eyed ;
Upon the swooping fo’c’s’le,
Or by the camp-fire side,
You’ll find them grouped together;
And always where they are
You’ll see a pipe-bowl glowing,
And savor a cigar.
The men who camp with Danger
Have jests that are their own,
And songs that you’ve forgotten,
And yarns you’ve never known.
There’s little you can tell them
Of deeds good, wicked, mean,
That men who’ve lived with danger
Have neither done nor seen.
The men who sleep with Danger
Sleep soundly while they may,
But always wake at midnight
Or just before the day.
A Something in the darkness
That shudders at the dawn —
A side-mate softly wakened,
A pistol swiftly drawn.
The men who sail with Danger,
Are actors, at command —
They lightly laugh to fool you
When Terror is at hand.
The men who sail with Danger
A wondrous insight have ;
They know if you are timid,
They know if you are brave.
The man who’s lived with Danger
Has knowledge all his oNvn ;
The foresight of a woman —
Of men who fight alone.
He learns from peace and comfort,
. He learns from care and strife;
j: He studies, night and morning,
The book that men call Life.
The men who live with Danger
See sermons in a log ;
They have the horse’s swiftness,
The instinct of the dog.
When illness comes to loved ones,
They know, where’er they roam —
Have you seen, ■without reason,
A bushman start for home.
They know and feel our “warnings ’’
As only gypsies do.
They know the Norse Fore-Goer,
Have heard and seen it, too.
They know when Death has passed them,
And the Death Watch is at end.
And they know when he is coming —
The Unexpected Friend. ■ ■
The men who live with Danger,
They take things as they go —
In seeming unpreparedness,
To those who do not know.
- They sleep when work is over,
And mind and body ache ;
But Danger whispers geiitly.
And they are wide awake!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
Old Jim.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOR the first time in all my busy,
beautiful life I found myself abso-
lutely without work to do. It was
not a comfortable position. I wandered
round the streets of Napier killing time, and
wondering where to look for a billet. The
grinding slavery of the railway department
seemed paradise now I had left it for ever;
and standing there in the autumn sunshine
I remembered only the bright spots of my
eight years of servitude.
Then a familiar voice and a strong whifl
of spirits roused me from my reverie, and
looking round I found myself face to face
with Du Callion, a surveyor who had,
rightly or wrongly, _ the reputation of being
the worst engineer in the country. I knew
him by sight—everybody did; but had never
spoken to. him, and I wondered what moved
him to address me.
“How is it?” I inquired, affably.
“Dry—very dry;” he replied. “They have
a new brand of soda water over at Dekler’s.
Shall we sample it?”.
As we sauntered across he spoke of our
last interview, and remarked cheerfully that
he had about a week’s work he could put in
my way ; and it began to dawn on me that
Du Callion, although it was only 11 a.m.,
was three sheets in the wind, and had mis-
taken me for somebody else. I had always
felt that Providence took a special interest
in me, and here was proof positive. We
tried the new brand of whisky, and sat down
to talk shop. '
“I’ve got the subdivision of that le
Hauke estate,” said Du Callion; “and a
sweeter little job a man never struck.
Here’s the plan, and I want you to hunt out
the co-ordinates for me by Friday. Will
you do that?”
I undertook the feontract, and called tor
more whisky, and that was the start of it.
The end of it was about 3 p.m. when I
landed Du Callion home, and handed him
over to his enraged wife. After enduring
her cutting remarks for about 10 minutes, I
started out to find a pump to put my head
under so that I might find out what co-
ordinates meant.
It took an afternoon of surf-bathing to
clear my top-piece, and. about 5 p.m. I met
Maroney, the second in command at the
local survey office. We had dinner together,
and I took him into my confidence. He swore
he would see me through; and he did, and I
started work for Private Enterprise at 10
a.m. next morning.
When I had fossicked out the co-ordinates
I wandered down to Du Callion’s office and
asked for him. A haughty clerk said he
wasn’t sure he was in, but he would oblige
me bv- looking. Then he returned, and said
Mr, Du--Callion was in, but what the devil
did I want to see him about, anyhow ? I
said I had some co-ordinates for him. The
aspect of the clerk changed. He unfroze
right away with a didn’t-know-you-belonged-
to-us air.
“Oh, flop right in then!” he said brightly,
throwing open the door and ushering me
into the presence of Du Oallion, who sat at
a table wearing a Calvinistic expression. He
had evidently forgotten me, and with a dis-
tant nod pointed to a chair.
“What can I do for you?” he said coldly,
resting his elbows on the edge of his table.
“I brought along those co-ordinates,” I
said cheerfully. . ■
“What co-ordinates?” he demanded with
a bewildered look.
“Te Hauke estate!”
“Oh, you’re from Mr. Kemp.”
“No, I got them myself.”
“For Mr. Kemp?’!
“No, for you. Don’t you remember ask-
ing me to do so at Dekler’s the other morn-
ing?”
“Oh, that was the day I was drinking,”
he said, unbending a little. “I thought I
told Kemp to get them for me —you are very
like him, and my sight not being too good,
and being in grog I suppose I took you for
Kemp. No matter —let’s have a look at em.
“Very nice, very nice, indeed,” he re-
marked. “A good clean bit of work. Very
nice.”
“I’m glad you’re satisfied. What about
another whisky?”
“Er—no-o; too early. After dinner drop
round, and if you are looking for work I
might be able to put some in your way.
Have you had much experience in the
field?” . . „ t
“Was brought up in it, I assured him
cheerily.
“Good! I may want a reliable man to
practically take charge of a road survey
through the King Country and the sub-
division of native tribal lands. Could you ,
undertake the job?” .
“I’ll undertake any job,” I replied, throw- ;
ing my chest out.
“It’ll take some of that fat otl: you before ,
you get it through,” he grinned. “Revert-
ing to that whisky idea of yours, I think the
scheme is a good one. Where’s my adjec-
tive hat?” . .
When I left him I got <?ut ot Napier as
quickly as possible—he might want refer-
ences, certificates, or the Lord knows what.
But if he never saw me he would not think
of the business till the last moment—and,
meantime, I must get into a quiet place and
swat up mensuration, trigonometry, and a
few dry subjects of that sort. So I hied me
away to Petane, where the willows are, and
in the camellia garden for which that place
is famous, I settled down to hard study.
I had been hard at work about three
weeks when I got a telegram asking me to
be ready to start for Wanganui next day at
11 a.m. I left in a hurry, and. collected
what I thought would be necessary. Then
I called round at Du Callion’s office and saw
the affable clerk. Du Callion had gone to
Wellington, and I was to pick up the men
at Wanganui and proceed up. the river to a
place called Atene, which is as near to
Athens as the Maori tongue can get, and
from there make a trial survey to Munga-
whero Gorge, and report at the earliest pos-
sible moment. Then the clerk handed out
money for fares, gave me some useful hints
as to the best people to get supplies from,
and wound up with a query? “What about
it?”
By the time we had seen about it, I had
just time to catch the express, and t9gether
we walked down to the railway station. I
slunk on board like a criminal. It was my
first great fraud.
* * * *
But it was not till I got to Wanganui and
found myself up against it that i realised
exactly how manv different varieties of ass
I was. I sat in the little pub parlor and
thought it over, half inclined to throw up
the sponge. And then my courage came
back to me, and I determined to see the
thing through. Meanwhile, I had to see
some men. ' , ~ ..
There were five of them, all evidently
born bushmen. tough, wiry, with plenty of
lung depth. I engaged them on the spot.
But I was still one man short, as my in-
structions were to secure six. I asked them
if they could recommend another.
And one of them, after thinking for a
moment, remarked that “Old Jim” had just
got over “a burst”; but he supposed I
wouldn’t give him a show.
I said I would, provided Jim knew the
work.
“Know the work —he’s a full-feathered
surveyor. One of the best. Worked on the
geodetic survey of the Island. But when
he’s in charge he drinks; gets on the booze
an’ deserts for days, and gets the job tied
up. But when he ain’t in charge he’s good
as gold. Give him a show, boss.”
“All right. Bring him along as soon as
you can. I want to get fixed up.”
* * * *
It was about 2 p.m. when “Old Jim”
arrived. The ancient one was a well-set up
man of about 50, tough as wire, with clear
cut features and a kindlv mouth fringed with
grey beard and moustache. I asked him if
he had worked on a survey before, and he
smiled.
“Oh, yes, a good deal. In fact, I’ve been
at it all my life, and I’m a qualified sur-
veyor. But I think my humble friend ex-
plained why I am reduced to this condition,
and it is a matter I do not care to talk
about. I should be exceedingly glad of a job
in any capacity, for I’m dead broke, and
very anxious to get away from the town.
Town has too many temptations for me.”
And he smiled sadly. I wondered if _it
was good enough to make the plunge. Jim
seemed- my last hope, and if he wouldn’t
come to terms, then I was certain to be
blown out as soon as we arrived at Atene.
Handing him a cigar I looked him straight
in the eyes with an earnest expression. He
lit up, and looked me as straight. Then he
spoke:—
“You’re tryiug to make up your mind to
say something, Mister, and wondering if I
can be discreet. Well, fire away. No mat-
ter how drunk I may be I never blab
secrets.”
Then I plunged.
And as I talked Jim’s eyes grew rounder
and rounder, till suddenly he exploded in a
wild laugh.
“You’re not pulling my leg, are you, sir?
It seems quite impossible.”
“It is only possible with a fool, Jim; but
I’m too hard up to be wise these times, and
(Continued on next page.)


IT IS A MATTER
OF FACT
That Backache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neu-
ralgia, Bladder Troubles, Stone, Gravel,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Nervousness, Dizzi-
ness are caused by Diseased Kidneys.
Many men and
women lookuponsucli
symptoms as back-
ache, dizziness, head-
ache, dimness of sight,
urinary disorders,
gravel, swelling of the
limbs, rheumatism,
sleeplessness, ner-
vousness and neural-
gic pains as trifling
complaints But no
symptom of kidney
disorder is trifling, for
it shows that the kid-
neys are failing to
filter the poisonous
uric acid from the
blood, and this is the
beginning of most
diseases. At the first
sign of kidney dis-
order, begin with
Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Bills, the great
kidney medicine.
Doan’s Bills cure
every form of kidney
Piet
5
v
2
A
1
T
Is
l
ry
3
C
v
Mfc/OlTflbe
trouble 1 , because they are a special medicine for the kidneys
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Lasting- Cure of 12 YearSi
Mr. Chas. Merrill, “Kyarra,” Davis Street, Croydon, Sydney, late of Lith-
gow, says:—“For many years I was employed in the ironworks at Eskbank, and
I was often put on filling the skips with coal. In this woi'k there is almost con-
tinual stooping, and after a while I began to get nasty pstins in the small of my
back. At first I thought they might be caused by fatigue, but they continued
and grew worse. They troubled me also a good deal at hight when in bed, as if
there was something hard gripping my kidneys. Matters looked pretty serious,
so I commenced trying different remedies. I did not mdet with any success, until
I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised, and sent for some. They have
given me splendid relief; I can now work with ease, and am quite free of back-
ache.”
Twelve years later, Mr. Merrill says: “Twelve years is a long spell, but
time has made no difference in my cure. I am still absolutely free of backache.
That is a good record, and proves that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a genu-
inely good remedy.”
Lasting Cure of 9 Years.
Mrs. T. Lewis, 133 Dowling Street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, says:—“For
years I was a constant sufferer from backache and kidney trouble. My back used
to ache till I felt I could hardly bear it ahv longer. Every movement gave me
increased pain, and I could get nothing to give me ease. The kidney secretions
were much affected and very irregular. One day I heard about Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, so I got a bottle. I commenced taking them, and in a few days
knew they were doing me good. As I continued with the remedy, my health
rapidly improved, and I was soon quite free of backache and every other distress-
ing symptoms of kidney trouble.”
Nine years later Mrs. Lewis says: “Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills perma-
nently cured me, for I have been free of backache for the last nine years. My
lasting cure is all the more wonderful considering my age. I am 83.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Ghemists and Storekeepers at:
2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TFliTil
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
PILES.
A LASTING CURE BY
DOAN'S OINTMENT.
Mr. Edgar Wood, Coogee Street, Randwick, says: “For 17 years I suffered with itching and
protruding piles. During that time I was treated by several well-known Sydney doctors. I also
tried chemists’ prescriptions, and used every remedy advertised to cure this complaint, but nothing
gave me the slightest relief. The irritation was so great that it caused me annoyance during the
day, and kept me awake for hours at night. I almost despaired of ever getting anything to
relieve me, as I had experienced so many failures. However, I saw an article in the paper stating
that Doan’s Ointment had cured a well-known Sydney man, who had suffered with this com-
plaint for 20 years. I at once got this Ointment, and am very pleased to tell you that the first
application gave me relief. I continued using it until I was perfectly cured. .My cure means a
lot to me, and is wonderful after suffering for 17 years. I wish you to publish this statement,
so that people suffering with Piles may know the value of Doan’s Ointment.”
Mr. Wood, says nine years after the above was given: “I am still free of Piles. Doan’s
Ointment made a perfect cure in my case, for I have been free of Itching and Protruding Piles
for the past nine years.”
DOAN’S OINTMENT is sold by all Chemists & Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot.
with your help I think I can bluff through.”
“Oh, that’s dead easy. A man who has
the hide to do what you have done '■"n bluff
through anywhere on his own. Of course
you have had some experience at the busi-
ness?”
“Never looked through a theodolite in my
life, Jim!”
“Well, I’ll be d d ! Well, don’t cave in
now. I’ll see you through, and when you
come back you’ll be a practical surveyor.
When do we start?”
“To-morrow, six o’clock. Now, about
pay. Of course I’ll pay you extra myself
for what you are going to do for me,
but”
“Never mind that. I don’t want money.
But I’ll tell you what I would like you to
do for me. When the job’s over I must have
a four-weeks’ burst, and then I want you to
look after me, after the fourth week, when
I’ve ‘got the rats.’ That’s the time one
needs a man to lean on. If you’ll do that
for me, I’ll see you through the gates of
Hell itself.”
“It’s a bargain,” I said.
And there and then he started to see me
through. He made out a list of the things
we would require, and accompanied me to
the store to see that I wasn’t fleeced. After
that he saw the goods safely stowed on the
river steamer, and came along and had din-
ner with me. That over, we went up to my
room, and he put in a good four hours
grounding me in the rudiments of field work.
I felt quite learned when I went to bed.
That survey I shall never forget. Of all
the frauds and hypocrites I was the great-
est. Every night in my tent Jim would
map out the programme for the next day,
and explain the why and the wherefore.
And every morning I would come out to
breakfast wearing a thoughtful expression,
and deliver my instructions with all the
easy confidence of a veteran.
After a few days Jim complained that he
was not feeling too good, and if it was all
the same to me he would stay in camp that
afternoon. I became alarmed, and when
the others had gone, hurried round to in-
quire what was wrong.
“Nothing, only I must do some calcula-
tions. You’ve got to produce a map, you
know, and all these figures have to be
worked out.”
“I thought they did that in the office!” I
remarked, aghast at this new complication.
“Not much —that’s got to be done here, in
camp, on wet days and odd afternoons.
And if you have ’em all fixed up ready for
Du Callion when he arrives he is not likely
to ask you anything about it. If they
aren’t, he’ll want you to start right away,
and probably stand over you while you do
it. So let’s get busy.”
It took the best part of four weeks to run
the trial line to Mungawhero Gorge, and
during the whole of that time every mail
brought me a letter explaining that Du
Callion could be expected two days later.
We were camped just below Munga-
whero’s biggest waterfall, amidst a wilder-
ness of clematis and wild convolvuli. Erom
my tent I looked up that wondrous gorge,
flashing with the broken sunbeams tossed
back from four waterfalls, and felt that I
was in Heaven. Every day I went out and
shot enough pigeons to keep the stock pot
going, and we fared sumptuously on pigeon
soun. potatoes and mutton bought from the
Maoris. An old native, who lived alone
with two wives just across the river, had
four cows, and he kept us supplied with
cream and milk. It was a picnic, and if
this was surveying the game was worth
learning.
I came back to camp one Sunday after-
noon about four o’clock, and found Du Cal-
lion sitting on a log smoking. He greeted
me affably, and informed me he had been
through everything and was more than de-
lighted.
“I was consumed with anxiety all the way
up,” he went on; “for about four days ago
I heard you had been a railway clerk or
telegraphist, or something of the sort, all
your life, and had never seen a theodolite.
Lord, I nearly went mad ; and away I came.
However, I have been through, and am more
than satisfied. I must apologise for doubt-
ing you.”
He slapped me on the shoulder, and told
me three funny stories in quick succession.
I ordered an early tea that night, and as
soon as it was over I asked Du Callion to
let me know what he wanted done next, as
it was my intention to get to bed early and
have a good sleep. He explained his scheme,
and I took notes of what he said —-they
would be handy for Jim. He was much im-
pressed with my careful methods. I saw
him again at breakfast next morning, when
he remarked that as I was just as good as,
if not better than, he there was no necessity
for him to waste time there. He would drop
in from day to day and keep an eye on the
work. Whether he did or not I cannot say,
but I can swear I never saw him again for
nearly three months. Then he came flying
through the bush-land, like a stormy petrel,
to inform us that the Government Inspector
was checking our work. And when he had
finished the long list of things he hoped
about, he stove me right in with: —
“And, by the way, old man, you might let
me have your particulars. Where you
qualified, and the date and number of your
certificate.”
This was awful, and this man was said
to possess a most violent temper. But the
sooner it was over the better.
“Well, as a matter of fact, I am not a
surveyor. Knew nothing about it till you
engaged me. Then I bucked in, and got
some slight smattering of it.”
There I stopped, for Du Callion was
showing symptoms of apoplexy. But with
a mighty effort he recovered himself.
“Look here, don’t you know that unless
this work has been dons by a qualified sur-
veyor it will all have to be done over
again?”
“I don’t know anything about the legal
side of the business, I’m afraid.”
“It’s no good trying to make yourself out
to be a fool. You’re a rogue, sir, that’s what
you are. I’ll be ruined —dashed well ruined
if old Sourface hears of this.”
“Why should he hear of it? Does he
know of your movements? Can’t you let
him think you have done your own work?
I don’t see anything to get excited over.”
“Very well. I’ll try and be calm. But if
vou are so woefully ignorant, how does it
come about that you do the work so well?”
“Comes natural like. Any fool who un-
derstands trigonometry can survey. There’s '
nothing in it.”
Again Du Callion showed signs of apo-
plexy. But he recovered as a horse’s head
appeared through the trees, and presently a
sour-faced man rode into view. He alighted
alongside Du Callion, and threw me the
reins as though I were a stable boy.
“I’m glad to see you are doing better
work than is your habit, Du Callion. In
fact, I hardly recognised it as yours at all.
Who’s assisting you?”
“Assisting me—no one. Damn it, it was
through having assistance that I fell in so
often. In future I do my own work, and
i’ll know it’s done properly.”
“A very excellent idea —very excellent
idea. It is evident that you can do good
work when you like. I am agreeably sur-
prised.”
* * * *
Du Callion gave the Inspector three days
start, and then he, too, went back to the
fleshpots of civilisation. We were glad to
see him go, although I must admit he never
interfered with the work, and spent all his
time making water-colors.
Then Jim began to" recover his thirst. He
moaned at nights, and advised all manner of
dodges to expedite the work. I never let him
out of my sight lest he should slip off and
make for the pubs at Taupo. The law for-
bade us to bring liquor into the King Coun-
try, and nobody would forward it had we
sent for it, as the penalty was so heavy that
only a wholesale order could be made profit-
able.
To make matters worse, the Inspector
suddenly reappeared, and Jim’s starved nose
caught the odor of whisky. It drove him
nearly crazy, and I shivered with apprehen-
sion. How the Inspector had got through
without drinking every drop of his liquor
supply I could not understand, for it had
been raining for three solid weeks. The
ground was in a horrible state, and the men
were carrying bundles of pegs on their
shoulders up the steep and slippery ridges.
Jim said he would go out and give a hand.
As bad luck would have it he found the In-
spector’s horse tied up at the foot of a par-
ticularly villainous hill. He dived into the
bag at once and drew forth the best part of
a bottle of real Scotch. Tim Ryan came up
with a huge swag of pegs at that moment,
so Jim dropped the whisky into a fern and
suggested to Ryan that he should comman-
deer the “hoss” and make him take the pegs
to the top. Ryan, already in a state of in-
surrection, clawed at the chance, and bring-
ing up a second lot of pegs, he slung a
bundle on each side of the Inspector’s saddle,
and with much cursing, dragging and kick-
ing. got the noble animal to the top of the
ridge. But get him down again he couldn’t,.
and he wasted two valuable hours trying to
do the deed. Then he gave it up, and, de-
scending, hunted round for Jim to get ad-
vice. Jim had vanished. Thoroughly
scared, Tim made back to camp in search of
him. There he found the Inspector foaming
at the mouth over the disappearance of liis-
horse. Tim got a brilliant inspiration, lie
said he had heard some Maoris whooping
and shouting, and perhaps they had taken
the horse to the top of the ridge. He offered
to guide the Inspector to where he had heard
the riot. The Inspector assured him it
would be to his lasting benefit to do so, and
golden visions of a permanent job on the
Inspector’s staff began to swim before Tim’s
eyes. So he led the officer straight to where
his horse was marooned on a pinnacle.
The Inspector dived his hand into the
bag. and when he pulled it out empty he
seemed terribly upset. He looked into the
bag, and then he examined the saddle care-
fully. He found the tree broken where the
horse had rolled on it when Tim was trying
to urge him down an impossible slope. Also,
he noted the marks of the pegs upon the
saddle flaps. After a brief excursion along
the ridge he grasped the whole scheme.
Then the storm burst, and he accused
Tim of robbery, destruction of his saddle,
and death by starvation to the horse which
could not be got down again.
I took all the men off the job, and set them
to work to clear a way for the horse; and
there was nearly a strike. But after about
10 hours hard labor the work was done, and
the horse brought down safely. When I got
back to camp Jim was asleep in the tent,
and the place reeked of whisky.
I anticipated that the Inspector would
condemn the whole survey, but he contented
himself with denouncing the pegs which Tim
had carried upon his saddle, and ordered
them to be burned. So Tim had to make
fresh ones and carry them up on his shoul-
ders.
At mid-day Jim appeared, clean and
bright, in a newly-washed canvas suit. He
made a clean breast of it, and after a con-
sultation we decided it was best to let Tim
remain under a cloud for a while. It would
check his arrogance. Of course we would
put him right later on.
* * * *
Back in wet, windy Wellington, I tried to
keep Jim off that burst. The only result
was that, instead of “getting the rats” in
three weeks, it took him six to reach the ani-
mals he had anticipated. I locked him up in
a room at the hotel, and went out to see
about getting more work. When I came
back Jim had gone. He was run in three
days later for having blue devils in a public-
place, and he had been in the “jug” two davs
when I heard of his fate. I went along and
offered to go security for his good behavior,
and as he was in bad health they handed
him out to me. I landed him in a private
hospital.
Three days later Du Callion met me, and
said he had effected a partnership in the
biggest surveying firm in Wellington, and he
had another subdivision of Maori lands on
hand. He offered me a good billet. I agreed
to accept it if I could take who I liked with
me, and was much gratified when Du Callion
said I might take Satan with me if I chose.
I started off to acquaint Jim with the good
news, and when I reached the hospital I
learned that he was dead.
So I wandered back to Du Callion and
handed in my resignation. I declineO to ex-
plain why. Du Callion was a fraud, who
had started to boom on, the strength of the
good work I had done up the Wanganui
River: and I was a fraud who had worked
up a reputation on the strength of the good
work Jim had done. The base or ground-
floor of the swindle was dead. The middle
or second storey, which was myself, wisely
retired from the scene. As for the roof,
which was Du Callion, I left him to work
out his own salvation —which he didn’t.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


WESTINCHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINGHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
gfd
-si
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from %to
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
implest and Most
Reliable.
gfd
Sole Agents,
Steam, Air
For
and Water.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
Ur it will repay you to investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylmder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Sole Agents—
Write for Catalogue.
£175
Nett.
BROWN & HELUCAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
!
•ftr 1 -x«* *•
iC,*:;'-V I
| f.
II
: i flf
11
asrss?
mm
’
i : ei
■ &£z v m
Write for full particulars to
EC ONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor—Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Money-making Machinery.
MORE WORK
BETTER WORK
IN LESS TIME.
AT LESS COST.
GOT THE GOODS. Our Showrooms contain
High-speed Machine Tools.
High-speed Woodworking Machinery.
Waterous Band and Circular Mills.
Clarke Chapman’s Steam Winches.
Anything & Everything for Modern Industries.
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. GOODALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
-303-5 KENT STREET. SYDNEY
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’s
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the stomach and digestive organs generally. Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pills give quick relief, stimulate the
organs to healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system.
They are compounded of the best and purest ingredients and there are very
few people who would not feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecbam’s Pills
If you have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver,
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and “ fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should ever
be without a box. Many thousands have proved the worth of Beecham's Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Arc Tbe Favourite Remedy.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
Schute, Bell & Co.
LIMITED,
WOOL- and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—AthIi
one Place.
E for Empire, the car for great fun,
M for Machine, it’s an excellent one,
P for Popular, the reason we will explain.
I for If you write us to ascertain.
R for Regular equipment we supply,
£ for Empire, so why not buy ?
ROY W. SANDFORD, Ltd.
181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
105 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Chalmers and Empire Cars.
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Are Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running Costs.
The “UNION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
RELIABLE and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
PRICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof*,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK. LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
METALLIC Engine Packing
The only absolutely ALL METALLIC Engine Packing is manu-
factured by The United States Metallic Packing Co., Ltd., Bradford,
Yorkshire.
ENTIRELY AUTOMATIC AND STEAM SETTING.
Decreases the friction and Improves the Vacuum. .
Works for years without attention or adjustment.
Quotations on application to Australian Agency :
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Li
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
the original and
GENUINE BAIATA
TRADk.
g
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT vet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a auard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne
WOLFE
3
SCHNAPPS
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
Pi m • .
* .
m
%
v. fl, .... . • i
Jfc •%■ .•■
a :
#r»
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newali’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removable
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
Covering, etc.
.
With 1" Covering, the saving of heat
effected over Uniagged Pipe is from
80 to 85% Write for Catalogues.
J. WSLDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 Pitt St., Sydney.
Prell’s Building's, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
ME PH AN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyamho ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
< B 1
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
oil Engines
SELF-STARTING
and STOPPING.
PREMIER
ACCUMULATORS.
fdg
307-11 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 BourKe Street, MELBOURNE.
Machine
. rh
k :
-y- >' .
Mechanical experts concede the superiority of the design and mechanical principles covered by
The Rochester Helve Power Hammer.
A Special Feature is the use of a Wood Helve preventing the shock of the blow from being transmitted
to the frame and woridng parts of the Hammer, and an extremely powerful, springing, forging blow is obtained.
A patent device allows also of the length and force of the blow being changed instantly
whilst the Hammer is running. This gives complete control of the Hammer, and is indispensable
to the shop where work of various kinds has to be handled on the same machine. No other Helve
Hammer has this feature. Write for Descriptive Catalogue to Sole Agents.
fdg
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
BRUCE PEEBLES & CO. LIP,
ENGINEERS, EDINBURGH.
M “ '
Peebles La Cour Motor Converter
as ordered by the
SYDNEY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL.
1000 K.W. 5000 Volts A.C. 480 540 Volts D.C,
Highest Efficiency, Unity P.F. Small Floor Space.
**-N. CUTHRIDCE LTD.
fdgfd
g
fdg
dg
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
