

Tk EMBODIMENT OE PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R. G. WATKINS «$& CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BUSINESS MEN WHO TRAVEL
will find that our Head Office and Branches will readily assist them when they need
financial aid promptly and without tedious delay, on business-like conditions. Our
low rates of interest and very helpful terms appeal to discriminate business men.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO. Limited
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street 74 , Sydney,
Opposite National
Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W
215«217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
*="=
JM
.z
s
4
r-
m.
Williams’s, ISlWhisky
i. » : ' V "
ECOBA.R.X,
Sif«
fjadley’s Orient |jotel.
piONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantkkd
d. C. Ludowioi & Son, LcL
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
if
Take it back.
I must have
MUTTON’S
Fine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
L
HA N s E N’S
r
will be forwarded, Post Free to A
-
v Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.
Sydney.
With PALMER cord tyres
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SIEVE RTO W N RUBBER CO., 279 George Street. Sydney.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
Mm &
PABCO ROOFING.
Spring approaches, and summer will quickly follow.
Wliat are you doing about the roof on your new house?
Have you given it serious consideration? There is one
roofing that excels all others for the Australian climate;
that is PABCO. In appearance Pahco is delightfully
restful to the eye, with its soft ivory tint. In tempera-
ture it is lower than any other material. To live under
it is to enjoy spring conditions at mid-summer. In
durability it lasts practically for ever, and a deluge could
not affect it so far as being waterproof.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT 00., CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL s.v.o.
EXTRA
SPECIAL
MwWav
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE.
Self-contained, Light, Powerful. Pitted Bosch
High-Tension Magneto. Always instantly ready; no
gears, rods or springs; automatically-lubricated parts;
no pumping-up; no water tanks, piping or packing.
Stationary and Portable, from 2% H.P.
Write for Catalogue.
JKbMiluel^
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET
(Opp. Lands Office), SYDNEY.
H ELI DON SPA
P/ease choose your “ SPA ” carefully.
Ynu mnu he* n&tonlisz&rl AffiPi»w/oo
ħ
The Bulletin
Vol.33.— No. 1699.]
[Thursday, September 5, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W,, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOK ON REINFORCED CONCRETE.
PROSPECTUS MAILED
POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS.
A COMPLETE TREATISE ON THE PRACTICE AND THEORY OF MODERN CONSTRUCTION
IN CONCRETE -ST EEL, written by a STAFF OF SPECIALIST WRITERS, edited by BERNARD E.
JONES (editor of Building Wokld). Illustrated by 150 photographs and several hundred diagrams.
Price, 18s.; postage Bd.
McGRAW-HILL BOOK CO. CATALOGUE.
60 pagos with Supplement, 32 pages with full Index of
Authors and Titles, comprising the latest Technical Books on Electricity, Engineering, Mining, Metallurgy,
etc. AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA 'AND NEW ZEALAND.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
S “
9 9
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC and
PROPHYLACTIC.
SUITABLE FOR OLD and YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of
special service to Lecturers, Public
Singers and Speakers, and, indeed,
to all who are called upon to use
their voices frequently for prolonged
periods.”
SStSPSS
JU
POWtRPUt
AUdTRAOA*
am DPiCASMn
MttMCAL ♦AIETTt
AMBSCPTIC
YO'tf
ON
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Price? 1/6.
CHEMICAL CO., Limited,
Post Free on Receipt' f Stamps.
The Red Page
VERSES by W. H. DAVIES.
Slum Children.
Your songs at night a drunkard sings,
Stone, sticks and rags your daily flowers;
Like fishers’ lips, a hluey white,
Such lips, poor mites, are yours.
Poor little things, so sad and solemn,
Whose lives are passed in human crowds —
When in the water I cap see
Heaven with a flock of clouds.
Poor little mites that breathe foul air,
Where garbage chokes the sink and drain —
Now when the hawthorn smells so sweet,
Wet with the summer rain.
But few of ye Will live for long;
Ye are but small new islands seen,
To disappear before your lives
Can grow and be made green.
Days Too Short.
When primroses are out in Spring,
And small, blue violets come between;
When merry birds sing on boughs green,
And rills, as soon as born, must sing;
When butterflies unll make side-leaps,
As though escaped from Nature's hand
Ere perfect quite; and bees will stand
Upon their heads in fragrant deeps;
When small clouds are so silvery white
Each seems a broken rimmed moon —
When such things are, this world too soon.
For me, doth wear the veil of Night.
The Little Ones.
The little ones are put in bed,
And both are laughing, lying down;
Their father, and their mother, too.
Are gone on Christmas Eve to town.
“Old Santa Claus will bring a horse;
Gee up!” cried little Will, with glee;
“If I am good, I’ll have a doll
From Santa Claus,” laughed Emily.
The little ones are gone to sleep,
Their father and their mother now
Are coming home, with many more —
They’re drunk, and make a merry row.
The little ones on Christmas morn
Jump up, like skylarks from the grass;
And then they stand as still as stones,
And just as cold as stones, Alas!
No horse, no doll beside their bed;
No sadder little ones could be;
“We did some tvrong,” said little Will —
“We must have sinned,” sobbed Emily.
How to Write a play
“There are no rules for writing a play.”
So, in the first page of Play-Making: A
Manual of Craftsmanship (Chapman and
Hall), William Archer pontifies—and calmly
proceeds to devote 312 pages to the discus-
sion of those non-existent rules. Archer
cannot write plays himself: his job is to
criticise them; and his taste for the drama
has no “high-brow” limitations. Anything,
to Archer, is a play that has been success-
fully produced. Ibsen is, for his critical
purposes, of no more value than R. C.
Carton. He draws for his illustrations upon
anything that has happened behind the foot-
lights. And yet, to those of you who are,
despite the killing environment of Australia,
interested in playwriting, his manual is
packed with valuable advice and expert
criticism. Archer is writing for those who
wish to write the common, or calcium, vari-
ety of play. He addresses his book to “Stu-
dents of play-writing who sincerely desire to
db sound, artistic work under the conditions
and limitations of the actual, living play-
house.”
It is, of course, only the art of structure
—a comparatively Mechanical and formal
part of the dramatist’s art —that can be
taught. A play, it must be remembered, is
not a play till it has been produced.
The kindergarten class of Australian play-
wrights will now commence :- —
The essence in drama is crisis. A play is
a more or less rapidly developing crisis in
destiny or circumstance, and a dramatic
scene is a crisis within a crisis, clearly fur-
thering the ultimate event. The drama gives
us only the culminating points, or the inter-
secting culminations of two or three des-
tinies. But every crisis is not dramatic.
The avferage marriage is a crisis. Archer
provides a rough definition of the dramatic:
“Any representation of imaginary person-
ages which is capable of interesting an aver-
age audience assembled in the theatre.”
Begin by drawing up a tentative scenario
—unless your name is Bernard Shaw, or
Galsworthy. Pinero makes sure before start-
ing to write his plays that there is a way of
doing them, but whether he ultimately fol-
lows that way is a different matter. Sutro
plans his exit and entrances beforehand.
First, however, you have got to get familiar
with your characters, to know and live
among the people you have created. And
when you pin them down into your scenario,
if you do not find that they want to say more
than you can allow them to say, or rush
headlong into blind alleys, or do things that
upset the balance of the play, and have to
be resolutely undone —unless, in short, your
characters are so alive to you that they take
charge of your play, then you can’t write
plays. And a word to the beginner: never
mark your entrances and exits as they are
marked in F'rench’s acting editions, in the
out-of-date “R.2.E.,” “L.C..” “L.U.E.” rem-
iniscent of days when the stage had none of
the conveniences of setting possessed by the
modern theatre. And keep your stage direc-
tions as brief and as impersonal as possible
—unless, again, your name happens to be
Shaw. And be chary of introducing charac-
ters who have n,o personal share in the
drama, and are mere mouthpieces for the
conveyance of information.
In building your play you can either give
the whole of your adventure, or start in the
middle of your adventure, and leave the
beginning outside the frame of the picture.
For light comedy and romantic plays the
former method is desirable: for a play of
complex substance, the method of attacking
the crisis in the middle or toward the end —
Ibsen nearly always followed the latter prac-
tice —enables the playwright to relax the
narrow bounds of theatrical representation
and to deal with a larger segment of human
experience. And remember that Shakespeare
—a third of his plays are omitted in their
modern presentation—had far more elbow-
room than you are allowed. The best advice
is to leave outside the frame of the picture—
to indicate in the opening dialogue, and not
to represent on the stage—the slow and
gradual processes and the separate lines of
causation leading up to your theme, and to
raise your curtain at the point where
separate lines have converged, and where the
crisis begins to move toward its solution
with some rapidity and continuity—that
point when the action could be carried con-
tinuously forward by one set of characters.
And—a special concession rendered necessary
by the late arrival —let nothing absolutely
essential to the comprehension of your play
be said or done during the first 10 minutes
after the rise of the curtain. (It takes that
time, too, for most women to sit down.)
The division of plays into acts is not solely
due to the limited power of attention of the
human mind, nor to the thirst of the human
male. It serves to give the play a rhythm,
and allows the audience to review the past
and anticipate the next act. There is more
pleasure—at least, to a cultivated palate—
in drinking three separate beers than in
draining the barrel at one draught. And let
each of your acts have a private descriptive
title of its own, thereby assuring for it an
individual character. Test your plot by
seeing if you can give the gist of it in 100
words. If you can’t, it is liable to weary
the limited measure of attention of the aver-
age audience. The first act should place
the situation clearly before the audience—it
may be largely exposition—but it. should
also carry us some way toward the heart of
your drama, or, at least, point distinctly
toward the quarter of the horizon where the
clouds are gathering up. Head your audi-
ence’s anticipation in a definite direction —
or else the audience might not remain to see
the next act. At least, prepare to fire your
fuse.
Do not keep from the audience funda-
mental secrets upon which your plot de-
pends, else you take from your spectators
the pleasing illusion that they are “gods con-
templating, with miraculous clairvoyance,
the fumbling of poor blind mortals through
the labyrinth of life.” The strongest reason
against keeping a secret from your audience
is that you cannot do it. Barrie’s “Little
Mary” joke was a secret for the first-night
audience; but everybody who went to that
play afterwards knew it before the curtain
rose. But there are dramatic effects to Be
got by keeping a secret till it is the right
theatrical time to disclose it. But fore-
shadow :do not forestall. Arouse in your audi-
ence the feeling of expectancy, but let it be a
vague expectancy. Your first act should
never end in a blank wall. Break a window
in it, and let it afford a glimpse of something
attractive beyond.
d*
You have now got to your second act.
Here the tension begins—‘the tension of the
audience: not necessarily of the actors. The
audience must be kept anticipating some-
thing imminent. “To engender, maintain,
suspend, heighten and resolve a state of ten-
sion—that is the main object of the
dramatist’s craft.”
A reasonable audience will endure a cer-
tain amount of exposition, a certain positing
of character and circumstance, before the
tension sets in; but when it once has set in,
the playwright must on no account suffer it
to relax until he deliberately resolves it just
before the fall of the curtain. There are, of
course, minor rhythms of tension and resolu-
tion, like the harmonic vibrations of a violin-
string. That is implied when we say that a
play consists of a great crisis worked out
through a series of minor crises. But the
main tension, once initiated, must never be
relaxed. If it is, the play is over, though the
author may have omitted to notice the fact.
And beware of the underplot. It should
not be a plot, but a very slight thread of in-
terest, connected with the main plot, but
involving no strain on the attention. And
each act must progress. It must not leave
the action just where it stood at the begin-
ning. Help your audience to divine the way
it is going, but leave it to wonder how it is
to get there. Set up finger-posts; but don’t
let them be too legible. Else you get “the
well-made play”—a lifeless, mechanical alge-
braic formula. And don’t forget your scene
a, faire— the obligatory scene which you have
led the audience to expect and desire. Archer
provides admirable and elucidative examples.
Above all, be plausible.
There is no time, in the rush of dramatic
action, for a mathematical calculation of
the chances for and against a given event,
or for experimental proof that such and
such a thing can or cannot be done. If a
thing seems plausible, an audience will
accept it without cavil; if it seems incredible
on the face of it, no evidence of its credi-
bility will be of much avail.
And the audience is more apt to swallow
the camel that happens “off” than the gnat
under the calcium.
Now for your last act. (Three or four acts
are the most useful length.) “If it were as
easy to write a good last act as a good first
act, we should be able to reckon three mas-
terpieces for every one that we can name at
present.” A crisis is comparatively easy to
dramatise; but few crises come to a definite
or dramatic conclusion; in life they usually
end in some petty compromise, or just get tired
and subside. Your chief difficulty will be to
find a crisis with an ending that is artisti-
cally satisfactory and yet dramatic. And
there aren’t many. Hence the frequency of
the “weak last act.” Archer remarks that
such an act is often necessary—there is no
obligation on you to end a play emphati-
cally. You might deliberately design an
anti-climax, or a philosophic last act that
would artistically relieve the tension of your
penultimate act. And the “curtain” is not
always necessary.
Beware, too, of blind-alley themes. (1)
The “white marriage” theme, where the
penniless Alice sells herself to Mr. Hogfat,
or where Lady Alicia mates with the “rough
diamond.” The audience knows that the
trouble can end in only one dramatic way
on the stage—-the marital happiness of the
parties. (2) Cold-storage revenge—where
the one party waits for four acts to vent his
vindictiveness on his enemy. This sort of
thing is not done now in life or on the stage.
(3) Heroic self-sacrifice —also outworn. (4)
The “my son” idiotcy, where the father
finds in a comparative stranger his own
“cheild,” and immediately becomes the dot-
ing parent. Shaw, in You Never Can Tell,
smashed that theatricality. (5) The absurd
oath of secrecy, kept for four acts merely to
sustain the plot. Go to life for your themes,
not to the theatre.
The rule that during a play there ought
to be a development of character should be
interpreted to mean that there should not be
a change of character —a thing that does
not happen in life within the time limits of
a play—but an unveiling and disclosure of
character. “A drama ought to bring out
character as the photographer’s chemicals
bring out the forms latent in the film.” And
“style, in prose drama, is the sifting of com-
mon speech.” Avert your face from that
dead form, blank verse. And, above all,
flee from the wrath that is to come if your
skill is so poor that you have to use the soli-
loquy and the aside. Still, a character on
the stage may be allowed to say “Damn” to
himself; and the convention of reading a let-
ter aloud may pass.
These are a few of the rules that don’t
exist for writing plays, gathered and aptly
illustrated in William Archer’s valuable
analysis.
Further information can be gained from
that sprightly book, The Footlights Fore
and Aft, by Channing Pollock (Badger, Bos-
ton). This book covers a wider range; the
author has had years of practical acquaint-
ance with the stage and in playwriting. His
is a book of the theatre, not of the drama.
If you were a manager and wanted a play
by a well-known author you would go to his
agent and ask if he had time to write it. If
so, you probably would pay him £5O for
attaching his name to a contract stipulating
that the MS. must be delivered on a cer-
tain date. Before that time, he would send
you a scenario of his story. If you accepted
that, you would give the author another £5O;
if you rejected it, all would be over between
you. The acceptance of the completed
“script” would be likely to cost you an
additional £lOO, and the whole £2OO would
be placed to your credit and deducted from
the first royalties accruing to the dramatist.
Authors’ royalties usually are on a sliding
scale. This author might get £lOO per week,
from which the agent would take 10 per
cent. This is the average remuneration.
The author of “The Lion and the Mouse,”
which has been acted pretty constantly by
two or three companies, has got from this
one play £50,000. Charles Klein has an in-
come from royalties of not less than £6OO a
week.
Every dramatist who has made a success
by “his first play” hasn’t. The professional
play readers know that every successful play-
wright has spent years and years writing
plays that wouldn’t sell. Playwrights must
be born and made. And the author assures
us that, in the United States, at least, all
plays submitted are read by professional
readers, as the demand far exceeds the
supply. But the average play submitted is
written by a person who can’t write plays.
Pollock tabulated some 200 plays submitted
to him as follows. The chief plots were: 37
dramas in which a woman goes to a man's
rooms at midnight; 31 farces based on mis-
taken identity; 28 farces built around the
necessity of a man lying to his wife; 24
dramas built of the question of love or duty;
22 dramas in which wealth is unexpectedly
derived from a mine or a patent; 20 com-
edies in which husband or wife ends the
philandering of wife or husband by seeming
to condone it; 19 dramas in which a woman
betrays a man and then saves him.
Plays which no manager would accept
are: (1) Those in which the crucial situa-
tion is the concealment of the heroine in a
man’s apartments; (2) those in which the
conclusion of the third act did not bring a
surprise calculated to make an audience sit
up and take notice ; (3) those beginning with
a conversation between a maid and a butler;
(4) those that conceal a character behind a
screen; (5) those that conclude with the
finding of a bundle of papers.
And, finally: “It’s a wise author that
knows his own play on its first night.”
Wanted: An Australian One-Act
Play
Having had your kindergarten lesson,
apply it. There are three repertory organ-
isations in Australia who are willing to
produce Australian plays: the Adelaide Lit-
erary Theatre, the Melb. Repertory Theatre,
and the Sydney Stage Society. The manage-
ment of each of these organisations have
expressed themselves willing favorably to
consider an Australian one-act play selected
in competition by this page. Gregan
McMahon states that he will judge it chiefly
from the view-point of practicability.
This page, therefore, offers an author’s
fee of £2 2s. for the best one-act Australian
play submitted within the next three months.
It will award the prize to the best practical
play that will act within 45 minutes —a
rough test is to reckon that each of your
type-written pages of MS. will occupy one
minute in performance—and will forward
copies of the winning play, and of any others
that show decided dramatic ability, to the
three organisations mentioned for possible
production. In adition, this page will criti-
cise a number of the better plays sent in,
and will reserve the right to print portions
of any of the plays.
*
The Salon, under which title the admir-
able Art and Architecture makes its appear-
ance in the hands of a new editor, Nicholas
Shields, and a new publisher, Weston, Wil-
son Go., aims at being more than the journal
of the N.S.W. Institute of Architects. The
July-August issue is beautifully produced,
and proclaims itself a thoroughly satisfac-
tory artistic shilling’s worth. The most
valuable article contains a series of repro-
ductions of details from a number of the
more interesting plans for the Federal Capi-
tal competition, while, when certain of the
difficulties in the reproduction of some of
the other plans are remedied, a further series
is promised. Articles on the Federal Gov-
ernment House, Sydney, on the prospects of
mural painting in Australia, by Norman
Garter, and information on architectural sub-
jects give the magazine an interest to all art
lovers, and indicate The Salon’s aim to
free itself as much as possible from its mere
technical appeal.
“Y.Z.” : I have found the following nara-
graph, from a Bulletin item by T. B.
Clegg, in four publishers’ circulars to date:
If, to be “one of the best sellers,” and conse-
quently, fill one’s purse, is hot the sole object of
your author, he may gain some reward for his act of
creation. He has brought a new life into the world.
It may be a poor thing, but it is his own; and he
cherishes this often maimed, misshapen bit of crea-
tion with the self-satisfied affection of a parent—if
the world buffets it, what matter, it is the way of
the world, says Sir Egoist, and they could not ap-
preciate all that lies in mj r beautiful child. He has
his consolations, truly!
It will probably appear in 400 more before
it finishes its round. Publishers dearly love
that sort of gospel for beginners in the liter-
ary mill, and are filled with disgust when the
more hardened word-stringer displays symp-
toms of outgrowing the fond, fatuous, pater-
nal stage, and insists on his beautiful
literary kids bringing a little oof to the
homestead. I’ve had dealings with many
publishers, but have never met one who for
one minute was running his factory as a
doting papa. Mr. Publisher stands in loco
parentis to a large family, but Lord help the
little beggars that bring no money home.


A.
w aee
Anthony Horderns’ for Brooches and Bangles
No. 971—9 ct. Gold Bar and Heart
Brooch, 4/9.
No. 975—9 ct. Gold Bar and Circle
Brooch, set Garnet Centre, 5/-
No. 980
9ct. Gold Floral Spray
Brooch, 5/-
No. 982—9 ct. Gold Fancy Bar and Circle
Brooch, with Garnet in Centre, 6/-
No. 984—9 ct. Gold Fancy Bar and Circle
Floral Spray Brooch, set Amethyst, 6/9.
Send for ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST OF JEWELLERY, post free
on request.
IT WILL SAVE YOU SOYS.
No. 875 Oct. Gold Fancy Floral
Brooch, 12/6.
NO. 987—Oct. Gold Wishbone and Floral
Spray Brooch, sot Garnet Centre, 5/-
No. 989—Oct. Gold Bird and Wishbone
Brooch, 5/-
No. 992—Oct. Gold Bar and Floral
■Spray Brooch, 5/-
No. 997—Oct. Gold Bar and Floral
Spray Brooch, 4/6.
m
No. 1001—Oct. Gold Fancy Scroll
Brooch, 10/-
No. 1433 —9ct. Gold Fancy
liar Brooch, with Drop, 5/6
No. 1434 —Set. Gold Bar and
Heart Brooch 4/6
No. !)77 —-Oct. (»old Bar and
Floral Spray Brooch. . 4/-
No. 1088—Oct. Gold
Circle and Floral
Spray Brooch.. 12/-
5>
No. 1002—Oct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set
with Garnet.. 15/-
No. 1090— 9 ct. Gol«l
Circle Brooch, set
with Amethyst 17/6
No. 1084— 9 ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls and Ame-
No. 1435—9 et. Gold Bar and
Heart lirooch, Fancy Cen-
tre . 67-
No. 070—9 c t. Gold Circle
and Fancy Bar Brooch 3/6
No. 978—9 ct. Gold Bar and
Heart Brooch, set with
Fancy Stone 5/-
No. 1325 —9ct. Gold Bracelet, set with one large
Amethyst or Topaz in centre, and two
Pearls 43/6
sets-
urn
No. 1322—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, set with large
Ametlivst or Topaz in centre, and ten pure
white Pearls 52/6
No. 80(1— 9ct. Gold Band Bracelet, set three
Diamonds and two Rubies or Sapphires 49/6
zwyyyyysy.
\sssyysssssJi,
jU
No. 1324—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, set with three
Amethysts or Topaz, and two Pearls 27/6
No. 1320—Oct. Gold Bracelet, set with large
Amethyst or Topaz Heart centre, and two pure
white Pearls 35/-
a-
i;i i
r 'i*
<
i !
No. 1323 —9ct. Gold Bracelet, set with one large
Amethyst or Topaz, and eight Pearls 36/6
No. 1314 —9ct. Gold Bracelet, set Diamonds and'
two Rubies or Sapphires 31/6
H
No. 1321—-9 ct. Gold Bracelet, set one Diamond,
two Rubies or Sapphires 57/6
No. 1436—4>ct. Gold Bar and
Circle Brooch, set with
Red or Green Stone.. 5/-
No. 994 —9ct. Gold Bar and
Heart Brooch, Set with
Garnet drop 5/6
No. 1437—9 ct. Gold Wish-
bone & Floral Brooch, 5/-
No. 1453—9 ct. Gold Taney
Brooch, with Heart Drop,
5/6
No. 995 —Set. Gold Heart
and Scroll Bar Brooch, set
Garnet 6/-
No. 999—9 ct. Gold Fancy
Bar Brooch, with Garnet
Centre 4/-
No. 1438 —9ct. Gold Bar and
Wishbone Brooch, Stone-
set Centre 57-
No. 996— 9 ct. Gold Floral
Bar and Spray Brooch, set
Amethyst 5/6
No. 1000— 9 ct. Gold Wish-
bone Brooch, set with
Tourmaline 4/6
9<o 9ct. Gold Fancy Circle
Brooch, 4/6.
No, 972—9 ct. Gold Fancy Floral Spray
Brooch, 9/-
No. 976—9 ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 5/-
No. 981— 9 ct. Gold Fancy Bar Scroll
Brooch, with Garnet in Centre, 5/9.
No. 983 —9ct. Gold Floral Spray and
Heart Brooch, set Garnet, 6/-
Be Wise! Pop your orders in
the Post and Reap the Full
Benefit of ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 985—9 ct. Gold Bar and Heart
Floral Brooch, 5/*
No. 986—9 ct. 'Gold Fancy Floral
Brooch, 10/6.
t f
No. 988—Oct. Gold Bar and Bird
Brooch, with Amethyst, Turquoise or
Garnet Drop, 9/6.
No. 990—9 ct. Gold Bar and Circle
Brooch, set Garnet Centre, 5/»
No. 993—9 ct. Gold Bar and Circle
Brooch, set Garnet Centre, S/6.
No. 99S—9ct. Gold Bar and Floral
Brooch, 41-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
On)' Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium t
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


mm
w
4.
%C
Hunting Rifles
After them with a good re-
peating rifle ! Be sure it’s
a Winchester, though, as
this rifle is reliable and
accurate. It is made in
calibers suitable for hunting
any size of game. The
Model 1892, made in .25-20, .32, .38 and .44 cal-
ibers, is widely used for Australian game. These
rifles are not expensive, although they are made to
get game and stand hard usage. The Winchester
.22 caliber Automatic and Winchester Model 1905
Self-Loading rifles, made in .32 and .35 calibers, are
also very popular among Australian hunters, as they
never fail. These rifles are very rapid in shooting
and unequalled as game
getters, being particularly
effective on running game,
as they can be held right on
the game while a succes-
sion of rapid shots is fired
with accuracy. Their system
of operation is simple and
they please in every way.
For sale by All Dealers.
X]
U
Why Suffer from Sore Throat ?
You need not do so for one hour longer than you
choose, for Science has discovered a rapid cure for
Sore Throat and its allied conditions, like Tonsillitis.
This is Wulfing’s Formamint.
“ I have never had Sore Throat myself since I began
to use Formamint, although I suffered periodically before,”
writes a physician in The Practitioner , one
of thousands of doctors who not only prescribe
Formamint to cure their patients’ Sore Throats, but
also habitually use it themselves for that purpose.
Sore Throat and those infectious diseases of
which it is a symptom, are due to germs which find
an ideal breeding-place in the throat, and, under
certain conditions, multiply with terrible rapidity,
infecting the body with their poison.
Danger of Diphtheria.
Formamint destroys these germs so
rapidly that when a physician mixed a little
Formamint with water and added it to the
germs taken from the throat of a patient
dangerously ill with Diphtheria they were
all killed within ten minutes.
Formamint should always be borne in
mind, not only as a cure, but also as a
preventive, when infectious diseases are
prevalent. By killing the germs causing
them, it prevents such diseases as Tonsil-
litis, Mumps, Whooping Cough, Measles,
Scarlet Fever, Consumption and Diphtheria.
For this reason, doctors always use
Formamint to safeguard themselves when
attending infectious diseases.
8
. :
PROMINENT USERS OF
FORMAMINT:
The Rt. Hon. Arthur J. Balfour, M P.
Lord Kingsale.
Lord Glantawe.
Sir Clifford Cory, M.P.
Sir George Alexander.
Mr. Ben Davies.
Madame Kirkby Lunn.
The Rt. Hon. Sir John Gorst.
Madame Adelina Patti
(Baroness Cederstrom).
Formamint’s marvellous power of curing and
preventing throat diseases is vividly shown by the
following abstract of a case recently published in
The General Practitioner :
Two children with Diphtheria were taken from
their home to a hospital, where one of them died.
The mother and another child who had occupied
the same room with the patients complained of
Sore Throat. They were in obvious danger of
Diphtheria. Formamint Tablets were given to
them and the other people in the house, and not
one got ill. •
Evidence of this kind might be multiplied
almost indefinitely to prove the wonderful power
Formamint has of curing patients of dangerous and
infectious throat diseases and preventing other
people catching them.
A Warning to the Public.
Stimulated by the success of Wulfing’s
Formamint, many preparations claiming to
be as good are being offered to the public.
This claim is false. Wulfing’s Forma-
mint marks the discovery of a new chemical
compound, which is manufactured by a
patented process and can only be produced
by the firm of Messrs. A. Wulfing & Co.
To obtain the certainty of cure of all
forms of Sore Throat and immunity against
germ diseases, insist on having Wulfing’s
Formamint and take no substitute for it..
It can be obtained of all Chemists, in
bottles of fifty tablets. Write for free sample
to-day to A. Wulfing & Co., 17 Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., mentioning “The Bulletin,
and enclosing two penny stamps towards postage.
FORMAMINT : The Germ-killing Throat-tablet.
Glenelg, Adelaide’s front-door and popu-
lar watering-place, is to have its breakwater
and boat-harbor at last. It has waited
nearly 80 years since Governor Hindmarsh
landed in what he called Hobson’s “Bay”
it being an open roadstead in which the Eye
of Faith is required to see any bay at all.
The P. and O. boats anchored there for
years, but the Orient craft never would, and
for the last 20 years the place has been left
to yachts —which on any big blow either
run for the Port river or get driven ashore
on the sands. The yacht club says it has
sustained £2OOO worth of damage in the
five years since the Price Government pro-
mised a breakwater. Unfortunately, the
town itself has only just finished paying off
£25,000 of debentures —money spent long
ago in damming the Patawalonga mouth, a
job which quickly silted up and became use-
less ; so there is neither cash nor confidence
to be had locally. The Peake Government
has now promised to endorse the Price and
Verran promises, and get to work. It is
just a matter of solid pile-driving in shal-
low water and sand, for there isn’t a rock
nearer than the Rock of Ages.
“The Religious Editor” : How defenceless
the average home is against the well-meaning
time-yvasters who, for want of a better word,
we Pall “visitors”! In the leisured and bet-
ter organised circles, the rich man or woman
has a hireling, but dignified, liar, who chal-
lenges the enemy on the threshold, and holds
him up until his employer says whether he
is to be admitted or turned away. The small
householder, with no hired front-door guard,
answers the bell himself, expecting to find
merely an inoffensive dun or canvasser, and,
on letting down the drawbridge, finds him-
self rushed and overpowered by one or more
bandits, who have come to steal his time and
refreshments, under pretence of seeing after
his health and well-being. As one who lives
by spoiling paper, I am jealous of my spare
hours. They mean money to me, and I
object to being deprived of them. Yet I
find myself being robbed on an average two
nights a week. I wouldn’t mind if my in-
terrupters came for (say) half an hour, and
contrived to be bright and interesting for
(say) 15 minutes. In return I would try to
glow for the same period, and we would
part cheerfully. But every caller has the
idea that he or she has to put in the whole
evening. And they do—but only by dint of
scraping up conversation, inspecting books,
furtive yawns, and the free use of (my)
stimulants. They make no attempt to sub-
edit their conversation as they go along, but
cruelly and shamelessly expand paragraphs
to Columns, and columns to full pages with
illustrations, cross-headings and footnotes.
Last night our house was invaded by two
ladies who would have been agreeable if they
had condensed themselves into half a column
each. But they stayed from eight till eleven,
and gave myself and wife bound volumes of
featherweight conversation, dull reminis-
cences, inferior theatrical criticism and
libellous gossip of no interest whatever.
Another caller is a whole library of reminis-
cences, and we get a complete set of volumes
at each visit, with “Compliments of the
AuthCr” Written on the fly page. I like to
be friendly; but, though time is getting
scarcer and more preeious every year, most
people seem to be growing more garrulous
and wasteful of the clock. You see it in
every department of life, from politics to
petty socialities. My ideal visitor is an
elderly gentleman, who, after asking after
my health, and saying he is “all right—
never better,” puts a large red handkerchief
over his face and goes off to sleep, leaving
me free to read or scribble as I choose. Some
night, when I can spare the time, I will
wake him up gently and tell him . what a
treasure he is.
“10-2-4”: It has come, as I have always
said it would. Consider this cable which
the dailies published last week: —
Kingston (Ontario).
Elder Johnson, a Seventh Day Adventist, speaking
at the Lord’s Day Alliance Conference, offered £2OO
to anyone producing satisfactory evidence of Divine
authority for keeping the first day of the week as the
Christian Sabbath and Day of Rest.
In other words, the Elder lays a level £2OO
that the cheerful citizens who on Sundays
go surf-bathing, play cricket, dance, leap,
bound and generally perform the operation
known to Wowserdom as “defiling the Sab-
bath,” cannot be shown, by reference to the
Bible, to be sinners at all. And without a
doubt, if the wager were submitted to the
arbitrament of any educated body of men,
the Elder would win hands down. The
Sabbath, or day of cessation from
day which the Bible enjoins must be kept
holy—is the seventh day of the week, which
is supposed to be our Saturday. The Book
which the Sabbatarian clamors to have “kept
open ” lays particular stress on the point
that no work whatever shall be done on the
Sabbath—though no one is forbidden to toil
or revel on Sunday. (See Deut. v. 13-15
and Exod. xiii. 12). The very Early Chris-
tians, good Bible students that they were,
observed the Sabbath with the utmost devo-
tion, and never thought of worshipping on
the Pagan festival of Sunday or Dies Solis.
Then the R.C. Church arose and abolished
the Sabbath and declared it bogus, and,
simultaneously, the Roman Emperors of the
day became converts to the new faith, and
presently, with the assistance of the Church,
brought the modern Sunday—known some-
times among the baser or more illiterate sort
of Wowsers as “the Sabbath” —into being.
The gist of the Canon Law of Rome on this
subject is to be found (vide the “Encyclo-
paedia Britannica” or any other standard
reference book) in the Decretals of- Gre-
gory, as follows : —•
We decree that all Sundays be observed fronj
vespers to vespers, and that all unlawful work be
abstained from, so that in them trading or legal
proceedings be not carried on, etc.
In fact, Sunday is as much a Romish insti-
tution as Good Friday or Holy Thursday.
I can understand convinced R.C.’s following,
as regards neglect of the Sabbath and
observance on Sunday, the dictates of a
Church which they believe to be inspired
from Heaven to order things as it wills, but
why frantic Wowsers who hotly deny the
infallibility of that Church, in every other
direction, should bow, to its decree in this
matter is a mystery. But, then, most of the
actions of the uproarious saints in the mis-
shapen clothes and small flat hats are mys-
terious and inexplicable on any logical
grounds.


m.
i i
Sl**
't V' ■ -
m
' %
iW^r-
-« «i F
-Md
¥•'
N i
IN THE HEART OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS
3L
*
a®
“THE CARRINGTON,” KATOOMBA.
Nestling in the heart of the ever-alluring Blue Mountains, with their wealth of rugged scenery and misty valleys, Katoomba
presents illimitable attractions to the Tourist.
Summer or Winter the air is deliciously crisp, and such famous Beauty Spots as the Leura and Katoomha Palls, the Federal
Pass, the Jamieson Yalley, Orphan Pock, and Three Sisters are situated within easy walking distance of the Town.
The Tourist, for health or pleasure, will find Katoomba an ideal centre from which he may visit various sights, and, in the
“Carrington,” an up-to-date and luxurious hostelry, situated in its own extensive grounds.
The “Carrington” overlooks, from Katoomba’s highest point, Leura, Spring wood, Penrith, and, in dim distance, the misty haze
of the Metropolis. It is sumptuously furnished throughout, and every .detail, tending to increase the comfort and enjoyment of
the visitor, is carefully studied. Since its inception, “The Carrington” has always been patronised by all Vice-regal representatives.
“THE CARRINGTON” to-day stands second
to none in the Commonwealth. Sufficient
accommodation is provided for 120 guests.
The Dining Room is exceedingly spacious
and will seat fully 400 with comfort. Each
Bedroom is richly decorated and furnished ;
no two rooms being alike. A large section
of the first floor is devoted to a luxurious
Lounge and palatial Drawing and Music
Rooms. A well-appointed Billiard Room in-
troduces an additional source of up-to-date
amusement, whilst an up-to-date Bar, lately
completed, at a cost of over £5OOO, faces the
main street.
The Cuisine of the “Carrington” is in charge
of a capable Chef , and is as perfect as it is
possible to conceive. The Kitchen —a very
important detail in a Mountain Hotel, where
keen appetites are the rule —is fully supplied
with the latest improvements in Stoves and
appurtenances for the Culinary Art.
LIGHTING—A modern, complete Lighting
Plant, of 1000 Kilowatts, has been
installed by the Management at great ex-
pense. This Plant—large enough in itself to
light the whole Town —ensures an ever-ready
source of steady light and power. Electric
Light is installed in each Bedroom, whilst
the main part of the Hotel is illuminated by
light clusters.
Ventilation is made a special study in the
“Carrington.” During the Winter months,
the Building throughout is efficiently heated
by the latest system of American Radiators.
This system, combined with scientific ventila-
tion, ensures a maximum of comfort in the
chilliest weather.
For the use of Touring Motorists, a roomy
and modern Garage is a feature. It is thor-
oughly equipped with every Motor necessary,
and each Car is housed under a separate
lock and key. It is here that the famous
“Itala” Cars, used on the Jenolan Caves’
Trip,, are stalled. .
The Tariff Scale in vogue at the “Carring-
ton” is quite in keeping with the charges
of Modern Tourist Hotels. The Summer
Tariff, extending from November to April, is
£3/10/- per week, or 12/6 per day—the
Winter Tariff, extending from May to Octo-
ber, £3/3/- per week, or TO/- per day. These
charges cover full attendance, etc.
The “Carrington” also possesses a modernly-
equipped Hydropathic Department, for the
use of its patrons. This Department is
under the charge of experts, who are pre-
pared to treat Ladies and Gentlemen in ac-
cordance with medical instructions. High
Frequency, Electric Light, Yapor Baths and
Electric Baths (Faradic or Galvanic). An
expert Masseur is always
in attendance.
Daily Motor Trips to
The Jenolan Caves.
The Management of the “Carrington” maintains an
up-to-date fleet of the famous “Itala” Cars, to
conduct an exclusive Motor Service to the Caves.
The Caves, 47 miles away, are reached comfortably
in these Cars, which are noted for their easy riding
and extreme reliability. The Cars leave the
“Carrington” at 9 a.in., and proceed to the Jenolan
Caves by Blackheath and Medlow Bath, returning
in the afternoon, in time to connect with the
Sydney train, ,if required. Return fare from
Katoomba, £2.
TALa
am
U
The Carrington Hotel, Katoomba
City Office: 16a Imperial Arcade, Sydney.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
h
ĥ
Is the most perfect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 144
m
For -22 Short R.F., -22 Long R.F., and -22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2|lb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [4
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
in iilfii
rxj^s
eKF^
©»c^
fK>^
c»o^.
m i **
BSII I I II I tn i fflns
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned,
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large ; .i size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney
ħ
GUARD YOUR HOME AGAINST DISEASE.
Use Hycol, 18-20 times stronger than Carbolic Acid, and
N on-poisonotts* GET IT NOW*
N.S.W. Agents; PQTTS 8 CO., 163 George Street, Sydney.
the MQST powerful
•DISINFECTANT^
The flany Points of SUPERIORITY
.fEckersley’s “REGAL” Aerated
Water Machine
over ALL OTHERS create a demand
for it by all sensible
HOTELKEEPERS.
Catalogues from
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE,
The Only Manufacturers of GOOD
Soda Water Machines and Fountains.
Queensland Agents:
ELLIOT DONALDSON & DOUGLASS, Brisbane.
—' - .11l
B.S.A.
Do you know what these Letters Mean?
They are famous the world over, and their presence on an
article is a silent guarantee of highest quality. You must have
seen these letters many times and perhaps know that B.S.A.
STANDS FOR
Birmingham Small Arms
This great name is associated with all that is best in
MOTOR BICYCLES, CYCLE FITTINGS.
RIFLES, MOTOR CARS, SMALL TOOLS.
These are all constructed in the modern equipped works •
of the B.S.A. Company, with the highest grade material and
workmanship. , No means are neglected which will ensure
faultless productions. Every part is severely tested at
various stages, is gauged to one thousandth part of an
inch, and guaranteed interchangeable. This systematic
maintenance of quality and infinite care in construction has
achieved for B.S.A. goods the title of “ Perfect in Every
Part.” They can be relied on to give satisfactory service—
always. Remember the name
B.S.A.
the Birmingham Small Arms co. ld.
Catalogues and all particulars of B.S.A. goods can be obtained from
D Y. RENNIE.
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®, sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
■ h
Sscnyt/Y
a &m/td*yju V\
6aS ufiuyA
EASILY PROVED.
To try
“King George IV’*
Whisky
once is all that is needed to ensure its con-
tinuance —that is a certainty. Connoisseurs
proclaim it “pure, exhilarating and beneficial.”
It is the Whisky of Whiskies.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
THE
E
lISTILLERS I
“ Largest Scotch Whisky
Distillers in the World.
‘OMPANY,
9 Capital employed,
over ,£3,000,00a
Ltd.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
Sydney— Angel Place; Melbourne— 52, William Street.
i
S^fRINKA®^
THADCj
h
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
In all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. NIORLEY and GEO. « CO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in allot the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
ĥ
“RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO


h
Consumption never strikes a
sudden blow. It creeps its way
along.
First it Is a cold; then a little
hacking cough; then loss in
weight; then a harder cough;
then the fever, the night sweats,
and hemorrhages.
Better stop the disease while it
is yet creeping. Do you not
think so?
Ayer's
Cherry Pectoral
SOLD
FOB 75 YFABS
is the one standard cough med-
icine of the world. It soothes,
quiets, heals. Use it when your
cold first comes on. Ask your
doctor about this advice. Three
sizes of this medicine.
To hasten recovery, aid nature
in every way you can. Be sure
to keep your bowels regular.
Daily movements are absolutely
essential. Ayer’s Pills keep the
liver active and the bowels regu-
lar. Dose, one pill at bedtime,
only one pill.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO.,
Dowell, Hass., U. S. A.
NTS
PAT
CoIlison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In ail countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jtsk your Storekeeper for il.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Wie'Standard Remedy -which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1586.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Golden Key” Cigars
The Cigar of Distinction
for Cultured Connoisseurs .
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
®X3£X%3av£an!2
cnbTwri-
G
R
A
D
E
FRAGRANT, DELIGHTFUL and COOL.
In Two Strengths —Mild and Medium.
Packed in Heavy Cedar Presenta=
tion Cabinets containing 50 Cigars.
Price 22/6 Post Free.
Try a Sample Lot of 5 Cigars, 2|o
packed in a Cedar Box. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when ordering.
D
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. •»> MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,' N. S.w!
Let us Send you a Trial
Sample of “Flesh-Food.”
WHEN you look into the
mirror, and your hollow
cheeks, thin neck and
scrawny arms mock even you,
what effect do you suppose they
have on those with whom you mix
socially ?.... A w o m a n’s c h i e f
charm is a well-rounded figure and
full bosom. With these, thin arms
and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
If your bust lacks development,
and you are scraggly and attenu-
Women’s Lack of
BUST
DEVELOPMENT!
ated, we will advise you free and gladly, as
to how you may improve your figure and beau-
tify your bust.
We are only too pleased to tell you the secret,
for we know it cannot fail, and that in a few
weeks you will be happier, healthier, and more
sought after than in your present emaciated
condition.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages of
ill-health have sought and accepted this advice,
and to-day are models of womanly development
and examples of perfect health. The same suc-
cess awaits your call. In the wake of attenua-
tion follow such complaints as constipation, indi-
gestion, bilious headaches, internal functional
derangements, etc. As your development ad-
vances and weight improves, these gradually
disappear, and perfect health results.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us tell you the secret
free, and also send you a Free Sample of
Treatment. Write to-day. Call if convenient.
FALLIERE FLESH=FOOD CO.
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [i B o9
Congo Roofing is a tough,
pliable water-proof felt. It
can be laid by unskilled la-
bor, and will give ten years
of faultless service.
That “ten years” is ab-
solutely guaranteed by a
free Surety Bond issued with
every roll by the Royal
Exchange Assurance of
London.
Further details on request.
| Congo Damp Course is a
tough felt somewhat similar
to Congo Roofing, which is
immune from deterioration
by dampness or acids. It is
used for lining the exterior
foundations of buildings to
exclude dampness and ver-
min. It is made in various
widths and is easily applied.
It is the most economical
kind of underground water-
proofing.
Australian Agents: —Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney;
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid
Elder Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millars’ Karri & Jarrah
Hart,& Sons, Launceston; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
Noyes Bros. (Melbourne),
& Co., Ltd., Rockhampton;
Co., Ltd., Perth; William
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the heats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “1 was a heavy smoker for 65[years,
but after taking your treatment for H days /
gave the pipe up for good , and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castleroagh St.. Sydney.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
I
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE: Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
■old to data.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with palling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collina-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Poring the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE m ifc offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price.
Double-Barrelled, Breech-load-
ing Guns, engine-turned rib,
left barrel full choke, right
modified, rebounding locks
and pistol grip. Trial .. £5 2 6 £312 6
Single-barrelled Duck Guns,
large bore, to kill at 100yds.
Trial 850 5 10 0
Single-Barrelled, Hammerless,
Breech-loading Guns, choke
bore, excellent stock. Trial.. 3 10 0 117 6
Double-Barrelled Breech load-
ing Guns, with Greener pat-
ent wedge fast cross bolt,
choke bore, walnut stock,
pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial .. ..5 10 0 4 17 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with pat-
ent side clips, file cut rib,
top lever, choke bore, speci-
ally selected walnut stock,
Greener patent wedge fast ■
cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0. 0 7 10 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22
calibre, Kill at 300yds. Trial 0 15 0 0 13 6
Guns by AM Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
All Orders for Guns and Rifles delivered Carriage
Paid to any address in Australasia,
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers,
242-244 Bourke St., MELBOURNE
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Golds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring and the Lord Mayor.
The dust that yesterday was mud
Doth blind and choke all living men;
To-morrow there will come a flood
And make it into mud again.
The Winter is asleep, and Spring
Smiles with a blue and radiant smile;
Upon a shelf your papers fling,
And walk with me a dusty mile.
The good sun shining in the sky,
The treasury of Summer loots.
(To-day you get it in your eye ;
Last week you got it on your boots.)
The south wind is a zephyr now;
Last week it laid the wide seas waste.
(To ev’ry cloud of dust we bow;
Last week we met it as a paste.)
My name is Mud. The wind of Death
Will one day dry me up, and then
A mumbling parson, scant of breath,
Shall say above my dust “Amen.”
How wonderful are Death and Dust!
How warm and dry the dusty town.
(The good Lord Mayor, so grave and just,
Is thinking deeply in his gown!)
Lo! the Solution comes this way!
Upon the street descends a flood !
The Lord Mayor’s barrel on a shay
Transforms the blessed dust to mud!
N.s.w.
FOE.
A Financial Suggestion.
Does anyone know what it means to spend
£2,000,000 in New South Wales? —Pathetic inquiry
of Chief Commissioner of Railways.
I want to spend two million pounds,
To spend it here in New South Wales,
Where every pleasant thing abounds,
And only cash or credit fails;
Give me the splosh, and I will demonstrate
The glad resources of our shining State.
With various pigments choice and wet
The city should be painted pink,
While at a gushing rivulet
Of amber joy the world might drink;
Yes, I should shout for all the thirsty town,
And risk the Wowser’s homily and frown.
Cash I should squander through the land
Till gladness laughed in all the ways,
And youth and pleasure, hand in hand,
Became a fashionable craze.
I’d even try again to introduce
The kissing habit, falling to disuse.
About the harbor up and down
Wherever grows a quiet tree,
A thousand friends should sit apd drown
Their sorrows —"possibly in tea —
And everyone I always should invite
To picnics which should last all day and
night.'
And I should spend a lot of gold
In buying pictures to adorn
A noble building that might hold
What boldest critics would not scorn,
And statues I should plant about the park
To shelter tender lovers after dark.
And I should, subsidise all games,
Excepting only politics,
And aid the gentle crank who tames
Our garden herbs to fancy tricks ;
In fact, I fancy I could make a splash
In fifty nice directions with my cash.
And with the surplus still in hand
I should construct a line or two,
Short links to open up the land
As politicians will not do;
For after helping pleasure, art and sport,
I still could give both North and South a
port.
I want to spend two millions pounds,
To spend it here in New South Wales
On girls, and wines, and sights, and sounds,
And some of it on metal rails—
Port Stephens and old Eden I should wake
For less than minor duplications take.
N.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
Aftermath.
N.s.w.
Flowers are around me,
Stars are on high,
Slowly the moon-ship
Sinks in the sky.
Red are the ripples
Flooding the hill.
While lonely the valley lies,
Shadowed and still.
Down the. old paths• I go,
Tangled in vine.
Dead days leap up to me,
Hours that were mine.
Heavy I step and slow,
I am afraid!
Hunting in shadows
The ghost of a glade.
Here once the moonshine gleamed
Clasping the bough..
Oh, those lost bowers of mine,
Where are they now?
Naught can the future bring.
Nothing can count.
Now waste are the magic meads
Levelled the mount.
This is the corpse of me,
Passion and pain.
Just a grey ghost of me
Haunting again,
Soft, shadowed paths of fern
Brittle and sere.
This is the pain I know
Year after year.
Lost is the soul of me.
Burdened and dead.
Gone is the afterglow,
Youthtime has fled.
Oh. for the lure of you,
You who forget.
Just the warm touch of you,
Ere the stars set.
CARO.


ĥ
218-22 Z
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
OF NEWTOWN
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
SPECIAL No. I.—Australian Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully finished,
large double-bed size, weighing 71b., for ...... 7 19/11
SPECIAL No. 2. —Australian All-Wool Blanket, extra large size; the best grey Blanket manufac-
tured for the .price, weight 7flb 16/11
SPECIAL No. 3.—Heavy English Whitney Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 7Alb.,
for the double-bed size, only 15/11
SPECIAL No. 4.—An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grey English-made Blanket, double-
bed size, weighing 71b., for 10/6
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
“MY LADY” SHOE.—-For dress and walking wear, is made of fine patent colt-skin, with tops of
• dull velvet, calf inlaid. This Shoe has a flexible, sewed extending sole and a comfortable
Cuban Heel. The giant, fast-colored eyelets, and the wide silk laces add much to the general
attractiveness. This Shoe is modelled on a new toe-shape, this, season’s style, A grand fitter ;
sizes 2 to 7. Price 14/9
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot ; with occasional applications of Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, 5 to 10. Price 12/6
oRE^S
*
32
T HE
6O
m
<
o
n UB
!V
Oar Motto —
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
" Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POURRI
For Pipe Smokers —POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Blend of Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
Postage id. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers—POT POURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH —50 for 4/6, postage 4d. extra; 100 for 9/-, postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA—IOO for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/-, postage 1/6 extra.
Send for my Illustrated Catalogue, post free,
A. A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
ħ
KMsa
CEILINGS
m
M
r?.
m
m
m
3*l W
u
mem M
§
T 8
£6
:MI
m s»,r
E
S5>W
2^
. tJsiSH 'Jfayr
imSm. . ; JnBM
m
'M
nj^Saji^vri
lit in
«
wl
AN EFFECTIVE
SCHEME.
CEILING No. 922
This design well exem-
plifies that decorative
and artistic effective-
ness which so distin-
guishes Wunderlich
ceilings.
CORNICE No. 958
The variety of Wun-
derlich designs is so
great that no difficulty
will be experienced in
finding appropriate
treatments for any
style of architecture.
FILLING No. 1034
'THE importance of selecting a
Wunderlich ceiling is em-
phasised when you consider
its permanence. Once installed,
it is installed for all time.
Irom every viewpoint Wunderlich Metal Ceilings and Wall Linings are the most
economical of the home-builder s expenditures. The first cost is no greater than
that of older-fashioned materials. The saving in freight, the ease with which they
can be fixed, and the absence of all maintenance expense favorably affect the ultimate
cost.
Write for the WUNDERLICH CATALOGUE « L.” It is
invaluable to anyone who expects to rebuild or remodel.
Wunderlich Ceilings and Wallings are made in Australia and New Zealand.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston New Zealand.
Perfection in Suits
at Popular Prices.
Are you anxious to LOOK SMART, UP-TO-
DATE and EXCLUSIVELY STYLISH ?
If you are, LET US MAKE THE SUIT
THAT WILL MAKE YOU LOOK SO.
You may rely upon our Made-tO-Mcasure Suits a*
being the best possible productions in modern, rlght-
to-tne-minute Tailoring. Nothing inferior will be
offered to you.
Our Tailors are men of great experience and skill,
while out Cutters are renowned for their expertness
and the magnificent fit they impart to every suit.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
We Will gladly send you patterns FREE—patterns
of the choicest and most up-to-date materials; also
Self-measurement Forms.
Seasonable Suits at Reasonable Prices,
Carriage Paid to the Country on Every Suit,
h
Suits Expertly Made
to Measure from
*3/3/
We Can Suit
You to a
Nicety.
We have made Thousands of Stylish-looking Men
LET US MAKE YOU ONE!
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Limited
Sydney's Expert Tailors,
Central Square, opp. Central Railway Station, Sydney
ABDULLA
CIGARETTES
“ ABDULLAS ” are made for the many—their price, in
view of their fine quality, is not prohibitive.
TURKISH—EGYPTIAN—VIRGINIAN.
Many grades neatly and cleanly packed. Your
Tobacconist stocks them.
Dalgety (E± Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
■
3
Ml
| m*
THE ADMIRABLE AUSTIN
A Splendid Hill Climber
lO : 15 s 18/24 H.p.
The following extract from The Autocar, of June 29, 1912, is instructive:
“Mr. H. C. Holder, on his 40-h.p. Austin, was third on time in lmin.
11 2-ssec. in the open event.
“The 40-h.p. Austin took the corners —well, just as they should be taken,
and clipped 3-ssec. off his time on his second essay.
“It is interesting to note as an example of consistent running and driving,
that Mr. H. C. Holder’s time last year on the same 40-h.p. Austin Car that he
used this year was lmin. 10 4-5 sec., or 3-5 of a second faster than this
year in the open class with a heavier load. Mr. Holder’s Austin carried the
heavier load, some 2cwt. more than last year, so that when this is borne in
mind, it will be seen that his time is actually better than last year, as he only
lost 3-ssec. in transporting an extra 2cwt. to the summit.”
Full Austin information posted free, on request.
ALSO
“F.N.,” CUTTING, DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE,
DAIMLER, HALLEY LORRIES.
Sole Agents for « THE AUTOVOX ” MOTOR HORN.
Price complete, Horn and Air Pump ... ... £9 9s.
DALGETY ®. CO. Ltd.
130-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BourKeStreet, Melbourne; Adelaide Street, Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33. No. 11599.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1912.
Pkicb 6u.
THE RAILHEAD.
This is as far as the transcontinental line has got on the road to Port Darwin. Furtner developments will ensue
when the truck has been got out of the road.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. • • 013 6
Quarterly 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Busi>iess Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to ’methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stainped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clivpings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cunfi-
den tial.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at 1/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., JjJjl Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Anency. corner Fifth and D Streets. San Dirun.
Cal.; Bay 'City Netvs Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.: W. E. Lenehan, 585
— 29th Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey, World’s
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong .—-Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x U/in., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Hates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. Id.; United Kingdom., All Sea
Route, ICioz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and Stoz. to
10oz., 2\d.; JOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz., Id.,
and id. ~ each additional 2oz.
'xHelzai.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1912.
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY
LEASEHOLD.
The Bulletin was recently, moved to re-
mark that the poor old Northern Territory
seemed to get everything that was going
except the one essential —the direct railroad.
The railroad can’t be granted without rousing
the animosity of somebody, for there are two
parties, and these parties clamor for two
widely different routes, and, as a railway
can’t go two roads at once, the construction
of it either way must aggravate the crowd
which wants it to go the other way. To
aggravate any sort of crowd means the loss
of votes, and the loss of votes is bad for any
Ministry. But in the matter of new officials
and new regulations the Territory suffers
from no scarcity. Of regulations, especially,
it has more than enough.
* * * *
The Labor party, both State and Federal, is
committed to the doctrine of the public
ownership of land. It believes in the lease-
hold as against the freehold, and it desires
to secure the unearned increment for the
people. The idea is altogether commend-
able, but there was never yet a commendable
idea that couldn’t be turned into disaster
by foolish or ignorant administration,
and amid a multitude of land regulations a
suspicion is engendered that the leasehold
principle may bring the Territory to grief.
The Government of this great Federal pos-
session of over 500,000 square miles was
provided for, in the first place, by an Act
of Parliament. The Act contained very few
details, but, in a general sort of way, it
validated any ordinances that might be issued
for the control and management of the
Federal estate. It was something in the
nature of a blank cheque—in other words, it
legalised something or anything, without
Parliament having any clear knowledge of
what that something or anything might be.
The land policy of the Territory is based on
the perpetual leasehold system, which is sup-
posed to preserve the advantage of public
ownership, while giving the tenant a title
which is almost equal to the freehold. But
the term “perpetual leasehold” counts for
little. All terms count for little unless there
are realities behind them. Perpetual lease-
hold, if the conditions are sufficiently easy,
may be even better for the tenant than free-
hold ; while, if the conditions, as regards re-
appraisement and other matters, are
sufficiently onerous, it may be, for all practi-
cal purposes, a mere tenancy at the land-
lord’s option. It may be a thing which the
landgrabber would rush at and seize with both
hands, and it may be something that even
the legitimate, hard-working settler wouldn’t
touch with a long clothes-prop. There
is reason to suspect that the perpetual lease-
hold scheme which has been devised for the
Territory is something which isn’t calculated
to attract settlers.
* * * *
The Ordinance divides pastoral lands into
three sections. Of first-class pastoral land
perpetual leases may be granted for as much
as 500 square miles. Second-class cow and
bullock land may be leased in blocks up to
1000 square miles, and a single lessee may
hold, in nominal perpetuity, as much as 3000
square miles of third-class beeve land. This
looks wildly lavish, for if there is any land
in the Territory which requires nearly
2,000,000 acres to constitute a living area,
the fact has not yet become known. Agri-
cultural leases may cover as much as 2560
acres, and mixed farming and grazing leases
as much as 64,000 acres. Then there are
town and miscellaneous leases. All these are
supposed to be perpetual, subject to a re-
appraisement of rent every 14 years in the
case of town lands, and every 21 years in
other cases. Also, by way of giving things
a start, the first 5000 agricultural settlers
are to be free of rent either for the lifetime
of the settler, or for 21 years, whichever is
the longer period; and sundry other leases
carry a 10 years exemption from rent. This
is a liberal method of. promoting settlement.
And in an empty country, which has always
been cursed by the lack of railway com-
munication, and which, apparently, has had
its railway indefinitely postponed because
the Government can’t decide on a route,
liberality is necessary. It might be a great
deal cheaper to build the railway and save a
lot of the liberality, but that is another
matter.
Then the Government, in its desire to
safeguard the leasehold principle and retain
the unearned increment for the nation, be-
gins to hedge its lavishness with restrictions.
The lavishness looks vast and wide, but on
the other hand the restrictions are narrow.
To begin with, the country leases are sub-
ject to re-classification. Thus, the man who
has 3000 square miles of soil, specified as
the poorest sort of pastoral land, may find
his area re-specified as the best agricultural
land, on which the maximum holding is fixed
at one square mile. The re-classification
can’t happen without a considerable amount
of notice, and even when it does happen the
lessee may still hold his 3000 square miles,
but in the end he must pay rent at first-class
country rates instead of at seventh-class
country rates. It is most probable that this
variation may serve him right, and in regard
to the lessee with 3000, or 1000, or even 500
square miles of land, the matter isn’t of
much importance. Such a lessee clamors for
extinction, but, all the same, the business
seems incongruous. A matter of real
importance, however, concerns the town
lands The nf U» Q Ft n f ''orlh
on which the Anthony Hordern or Mark
1 oy of the Norm erects his is
nominally perpetual, but the rent is
subject to re-appraisement every 14 years.
It is also subject to re-appraisement at
any time inside the 14 years, “if by
reason of the carrying out of any public
work in the Northern Territory any increase
in the value of the leased land takes place.”
Now, almost any kind of public work will
increase the selling value of land, though it
may not necessarily increase its value to the
lessee who has put up a costly building on
it. Thus, the establishment of a railway
station on one side of St. Mary’s Cathedral,
in' Sydney, and a national theatre on the
other side, and a Mclntosh stadium in
front, and a monster drapery behind, end
a pub adjacent, would vastly increase the
value of the bit of ground on which St.
Mary’s stands; but it might not enhance
the value of St. Mary’s as a place of wor-
ship, which is the only thing it is fitted for.
And in a new, fresh, raw, crude country,
public works will be going on all the time,
and going on everywhere, and re-appraise-
ments may happen any day. A perpetual
lease with a re-appraisement every 14 years
is really only a lease for 14 years, because
the revised rental may make the position un-
tenable. And a perpetual lease, which is
subject to a possible re-appraisement at any
time, is no better than a weekly or monthly
tenancy. The mere fact of a lessee putting
up a building like that of the A.M.P. Society
in Sydney, in a new Northern Territory city,
would bring around it other similar build-
ings. Then would come pavements, a wood-
blocked road, drains, gutters, tramways, per-
haps a railway station, possibly a telegraph
station, and a leper hospital and a gaol, and
all manner of public works. Each and every
one of these might shove up the rent, quite
apart from the regular and periodical shove-
uo which would arise through the increase
of population and the consequent enhance-
ment of land values. There is no evidence
that the rents would be extortionate, but
they might be: and the uncertainty of the
business is calculated to prevent the poor
old Territory having an'"' cities at all, or
enough settlers to be worth mentioning.
The Bulletin has urged for years nast
the opening of the neglected deep-water ports
of N.S.W.. Victoria and other States, the
building of railways to make them accessi-
ble, and the establishment, at places like
Port Stephens, Twofold Bay, W esternport
and Portland, of cities whereof the State
should be sole ground landlord for all time.
But it never dreamed that these cities could
be built if the man who hired a bit of land
whereon to put £lOO,OOO or _£2so,ooo’s worth
of warehouse or factory didn’t know from
week to week, and hardly knew from day to
day, whether his ground rent wouldn’t be
raised by an irresponsible landlord to a
figure which would make his investment
quite unprofitable. Fat, whose other name
is Private Enterprise, is a hard master, but
even Fat grants ground leases for 50 or 60
or sometimes 99 years without re-ap-
praisement. If he wasn’t fairly liberal
in this direction no one would build six-
storey structures on his property. He is
moved by no high and generous motives in
acting as he does. He simply recognises that
man is a gambling animal; that the possi-
bilities of the unearned increment are among
the most fascinating of business gambles;
and that unless he shares the possibilities of
the gamble with his tenant, he may not get
any tenant, and then there will be no unearned
increment to gamble with. The one thing
that Fat really knows is how to make money
for himself. If the Australian Government,
which is the landlord —otherwise the Fat —
of the Northern Territory, thinks it can
screw more out of its tenants than he does,
it is too sanguine for this world. Yet it
seems to have that idea. The preservation
of the unearned increment for the nation is a
great idea. So, for that matter, is the
preservation of the gold and silver and cop-
per deposits for the nation. But _ gold
and silver and copper and unearned incre-
ment are the attractions which lure people
out into the wilderness, and if the pioneers
aren’t allowed to annex some part of them,
they are apt to remain in Paddington or
Collingwood, and go to the sixpenny picture
show.
It is well to remember that the public
ownership of land is not a gospel in itself.
It is not an end —only a means to an end, the
end being the general diffusion of wealth and
happiness. Provided the laws prevent the
aggregation of great estates, and the soil is
fairly well distributed among those who want
soil, and are capable of putting it to good
use, freehold is about as good as State owner-
ship. One is a device by which each man
possesses his little enterprise; the other is a
method by which he is a shareholder in a
big enterprise. One way he gets his indivi-
dual bit of unearned increment and manages
it himself; the other way he gets his pro-
portion as a citizen, and consequently a
shareholder of the great mass of un-
earned increment, provided people like King
O’Malley and McGowen and Holman and
Hughes don’t happen to muddle it away.
The drawback of private land ownership
lies in the difficulty of preventing the estab-
lishment of great estates end great land
monopolies. The drawback of public land
ownership lies in the difficulty of managing
so vast a business, and the possibility of a
correct or incapable person at the head of
the Public Estate Department becoming as
great an evil as the private landlord. Pri-
vate ownership is advocated, not only by
people who really believe in it on principle,
but also by thieves, land boomers and swin-
dlers. Public ownership is advocated, not
only by people who honestly believe in it,
but also by political frauds, who see, in the
management of the public estate, gigantic
opportunties for self-aggrandisement and even
peculation. It is impossible to bring about a sort
of Soil Millennium merely by resolving that
all the unearned increment shall belong to
the community, for unless the pioneers come
there will be no unearned increment, and in
a country which has still plenty of elbow-
room, the pioneers won’t come unless there
is some better prize ahead of them than in
the crowded lands of their origin. The idea
of moving from the flesh-pots of Adelaide,
and the bean-feasts of Melbourne, and the
fatted calf of Sydney, and putting ur> a
costly block of buildings in a raw new citv
which has no railway communication with
anywhere, and on a bit of ground the rent of
which may rise indefinitely on all sorts of
occasions, is not attractive.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Railway that is Built from the
North.
The Fisher Government has made some-
thing in the shape of an indefinite pronounce-
ment of its policy in the matter of the
Northern Territory railway, and from the
standpoint of Australia’s interests things
could hardly be worse. The misfortune of
the case lies, as usual, with the two rival
routes. The Commonwealth is pledged abso-
lutely to the completion of the present un-
finished Port Darwin-Port Augusta line, up
through the centre of Australia. That was
one of the conditions on which the Territory
was handed over, and it can in no way be
honorably evaded. Besides, the logic of
circumstances clamors for the work. On
the other hand, a section desires to have the
agreement broken, and the line deviated at
great length and much extra cost through
the eastern States. A curious idea seems to
prevail that Australia is a place with no
future, and that it will never want more
than one railway from south to north, and
that the party which doesn’t snatch this
chance is lost. Hence the cat-fight and the
complication. As matters stand, any Govern-
ment which proposes to build the railway
right through the centre of Australia, as per
agreement, will lose votes in Queensland and
N.S.W., and the one which proposes to build
it by the deviation will lose votes in S.A.
and Westralia, while any Government which
attempted to build both lines at once would,
in the present state of the finances, burst up.
Meanwhile, the Cabinet which does nothing
definite may postpone the row for a long
time —perhaps for all its political life. Un-
fortunately, this also means postponing the
settlement of the Territory, and putting off
the date when it will be possible to rush
troops overland to its defence, should defence
be badly needed and an enemy in possession
of the sea, and on that settlement and that
sort of defence the very life of Australia may
any day depend. The present idea is to
resume railway-building from the north,
and construct very slowly—even the neces-
sary Bill will probably not be passed until
next Parliament—the little section as far as
Katherine River, and then further consider
the position. The scrap to Katherine River
—or even perhaps to Bitter Springs or All
Saints Well—is equally on the road to Ade-
laide or to Brisbane, and so much can be
done without the party in power committing
itself and arousing serious trouble. It
represents a handy compromise. Unfortu-
nately, though this scheme may be good poli-
tics, it isn’t good policy or good patriotism.
If the work were commenced from the south
every mile constructed would serve to bring
Australian troops nearer to the scene of
trouble, if trouble should come. A line built
from the north will—until it is completed
some time in the dim future —only serve to
carry further into the heart of Australia
any enemy who may arrive by sea n nd
possess himself of Port Darwin, but it won’t
make it a whit easier to bring a single man
or gun from Adelaide or Melbourne or Syd-
ney for purposes of protection. Six
hundred miles of iron highway, built from the
south northward, would redeem part of the
Territory from its isolation by giving it direct
communication with the big southern cities,
and would start settlement at that end of
the country which is furthest from any pos-
sible attack. Six hundred miles of line, built
from the north southward, would start settle-
ment where the new wealth lay handiest to
an enemy, but it wouldn’t make any part of
the Territory less isolated than it is now, in
the sense that the place would still depend,
just as much as it does to-day, and as it did
100 years ago, on the sea for its connection
with the other States. If an enemy happens
along while the railway is unfinished, and
the control of the sea is lost, then it is plain
that the enemy, with the Territory railway
to help him, can advance south as far as one
side of the gap where the work is unfinished,
and the Australian troops can hurry north as
far as the other side of the gap. Building
from the south means moving the gap north-
ward, and making the area which Australia
can hold larger, and that which the enemy
can conveniently occupy smaller. Building
from the north means shoving the gap south-
ward —in other words, it means less terri-
tory saved to Australia, and more lost to the
invader. If these points are not worth con-
sideration, then it is hard to see where in all
this country there can be a point that is
worth consideration. Of course, construc-
tion from the south involves nmking a
plunge, and either going back on tne agree-
ment made with S.A., which is unthinkable,
or breaking with the deviation party in the
eastern States, which is unpleasant. But
the plunge must be made some day, unless it
is proposed to leave the question for the
Japanese or Chinaman or German to decide
and let him build a track to suit himself
at our expense.
+
The Muddle in Maoriland.
“Maorilander” writes: —
Premier Massey, of Maoriland, is already discover-
ing that it is easier to promise than to perform.
For so heavy a man, he must needs tread very deli-
cately just now. In the first place . he was virtually
put into power by the vote of the big landed interest,
while still owing much to the great body of inde-
pendent Democrats who own no land at all, and are
enthusiasts for closer settlement. Now, if Massey
honestly keeps the promises he has made to the inde-
pendent or moderate Democrats, he must in the end
antagonise his loyal Conservative following; while,
if he adheres to his professed anti-borrowing policy,
there must be such an apparent shrinkage of public
‘works as will speedily incense the popular majority.
The difficulty-of the position is not to be evaded.
On the hustings* Massey announced his determina-
tion to foster settlement in the backbloeks. But
to make the available backbloeks accessible to settle-
ment, much money must be spent on needed com-
munications—on roads and bridges, and other things
not generally classed as reproductive. Many of the
backbloeks, already in some parts settled, are starving
for roads. There are some partially settled dis-
tricts so badly roaded as to be almost isolated —
districts whose women have not seen a town since
. the settlement was made, and whose children- have
never seen a town at all. Some of Massey's
staunchest supporters in Parliament are already de-
manding that relief shall be afforded to such dis-
tricts, so that for the unoccupied parts it is desir-
able to settle there can be very little hope. The
thing that Massey should do, of course —and the
thing that Massey will never dare to do —-is to cut
up some of the big estates along the railways. Be
dare rot do that, because he knows pe r 'ectly well
that the moment Massey is mad enough to snap
>s fingers in the teeth of his masters, Massey will
be no more. An anti-borrowing policy is a good
■'olicv; but it is merely farcical to pretend that
Massey is a serious anti-borrower. How, otherwise,
does Massey stand? Fe has little to exnect from
O«toms, for in that department he is pledged to
reduce the burden, and he is a devout foreign-trader
in his heart. His so-called increase of the gradu-
ated land-tax amounts to next to nothing. A
Ministry so constituted dare not, attempt any con-
siderable increase of the tax on wealth. On the
oFer hand, there is to be faced the problem of the
influential Labor section. In Maoriland no Govern-
ment can live, once it incurs the enmity of Labor,
and at Massey Labor is already looking askance,
with a very sour eye. When the new Trades Hall was
opened in Auckland, a few days ago, Joseph Ward
was enthusiastically received, and the name of
Massey was greeted with thinly-veiled derision. And
this is only the beginning. Still, the Massey party
will probably hang on to office for some time yet,
if for no better reason than that certain huckstering
politicians, who have given it temporary support,
dare not vote against it without signing their own
warrant for political execution.
4,
About High Prices and Low Sirrits.
It is the fashion, these times, to allege
that this is an era of phenomenally high
prices, and that though wages are much
better than they were 10 or 15 years ago,
yet the general whooping-up of the cost of
living has left the ordinary citizen just
where he was, or made him even worse off
than he was. But the ordinary citizen,
being a person who trusts in a vague sort
of way to his memory, and never studies
volumes of back statistics, or even verifies
his hazy impressions by looking up old news-
paper files, is not always the authority he is
commonly supposed to be. The rise in
prices has not mooped up all the worker’s
extra earnings. Even the trust and the
landlord have not scooped quite all his pro-
fits. He not only lives much better than in
the wretched low-price years immediately
before and immediately after the Common-
wealth was established —the years of soup-
kitchens and relief works—but he has a
larger surplus. Thus, in 1902. 267 out of
every 1000 inhabitants of the Common-
wealth had each a little bit in the Savings
Bank ; in 1911, 262 out of every 1000 were
thus provided. In 1902 the rather scarce
depositor had, on an average, £32 ss. lOd.
put away. In 1911, the much more numer-
ous one had £37 2s. 4d. The total amount
of savings in the banks of the people in-
creased between 1902 and 1911 by over
£26.000,000 —from about £33,000,000 to a
good deal more than £59,000,000. In other
words, the people accumulated nearly as
-much in these nine years of high nrices as
in the century or so that went before. In
1902, the savings of the people, if they had


been evenly distributed among the whole
population, would have represented £8 12s.
Sd. per head ; in 1911, they stood for £l3 Bs.
sd. per head. It is noteworthy that the
year in which the people had the biggest
surplus and added most to their savings was
last year—which was also the one when the
clamor about high prices became most con-
spicuous. In that one twelvemonth, more
than £6,000,000 were added to the accumu-
lations in the banks of the people. There
was never anything like it before. In the
four comparatively low-price years up to
1906 only about £5,000,000 were saved —-
say £1,300,000 per annum. There have
been occasions in Australia when the
people’s savings were actually diminishing,
but these were times of cheap living, when
a man could buy as much, in some lines, for
6d. as he now can for Is., and had
only sd. to buy the goods with,
where he now has Is. 3d. And all the above
figures take no account of the increase in
the investments of the people in friendly
societies, building societies, life assurance
offices and the like. High prices are un-
pleasant, but there remains the fact that
in Australia the masses of the people—the
laboring end artisan class —have never been
so well off as when prices were high. The
lady who writes to the paper signing herself
“Mother of Seven” is no doubt quite honest
in her statement that it is much more diffi-
cult to make ends meet than it was, say, 10
years ago. In the first place, she has read
in the paper that it is more difficult, and
she thinks she remembers it because she has
read it. In the second place, she has only a
general recollection of how things were 10
years ago, and the details have been lost.
In the third place, she was 10 years younger
then, and life looks much less rosy as grey
hairs accumulate. And in the fourth place,
she was only a Mother of One in those by-
gone days when all the world was gay—to
look back upon. And her young contempo-
rary of to-day—the bride who “Expects to
be the Mother of One” —wasn’t old enough
in the alleged times of cheap food, and cheap
wages, and unemployed, and soup-kitchens,
and_ charitable sand-shifting jobs, to realise
their glories. So she also trusts to popular
report, and says she doesn’t know what
things are coming to.
A Glittering but Empaupered Citizen.
All through history, from the first dim be-
ginning of things warlike, to the present day,
it has been the fashion to underpay the
soldier. The practice had its origin, prob-
ably, in the fact that the old-time warrior
was supposed to be in a position to do with-
out wages. War was frequent when the
world was young, and looting was regarded
with a sympathetic eye. An officer who
couldn’t amass sufficient in the course of
one campaign to keep him in comfort till
the next, was extraordinarily slow off the
mark and deficient in brain-power. Noble-
men and the sons of noblemen went into the
sweated, though profitable, industry with
much enthusiasm. By the time the good old
days of looting were over, the profession ot
arms had become fashionable. Ihousands
were prepared, in aristocratic countries such
as Britain, to pay large sums directly and
indirectly for commissions in a calling whicfi
remunerated its members on a starvation
basis, and offered but faint hope, of financial
advancement to the vast majority of those
who engaged in it. That is more or less the
position to-day. The wealthy youth ot ob-
scure birth automatically achieves a status
in London society by bursting into the
Household Brigade, or the 10th Hussars, or
the 9th Lancers, or any one of a dozen other
corps that might be cited. The ornate and
splendid uniforms of these regiments make a
powerful appeal to persons possessed of
sufficient money to pay the outrageous price
they cost, and sufficient vanity to wish to
wear them. And so, taking one thing with
another, the supply of British ofiicer shows
no serious sign of falling oil The Australian
Defence authorities are differently situated.
A soldier cuts no more ice in this country,
in a social manner of speaking, than a solici-
tor or a hat-importer. The uniform which
the local warrior wears is a serviceable-look-
ing but drab affair. No romantic traditions
cling to the garment as yet. It has not had
time to suggest, to the imaginative spectator
such stirring things as Balaclava charges and
the like; if it brings anything to the mind
of the onlooker it is a mental picture of a
robbed hen-roost or a Boer cottage piano
with an axe in its vitals. In short, there are,
up to now, no fashionable aids to popularity
as regards the profession of soldiering in
Australia. Regardless of this plain fact, the
authorities are proceeding in the matter of
remuneration on the basis of those countries
whose officers are mostly men of means, and
occasionally men of great wealth. The posi-
tion of the area ofiicer is a particularly glar-
ing case in point. At a time when the
cost of living is not quite so low as it used
to be, his remuneration has been fixed at £3
per week —a sum that any willing navvy
can earn with ease. It may be said that
he can earn other money in his spare time.
But if he seriously carries out his duties of
registering and organising the senior cadets,
inspecting the training of junior cadets in
schools, supervising the training of all re-
cruits, organising the reserve units, obtain-
ing “a thorough “knowledge of the distribution
of population, conditions of employment, in-
dustries and all matters affecting the interests
of those liable for training in the area,” etc.,
etc., as directed by the regulations, he will
have but scant leisure. And if he doesn’t
approach these duties in a serious spirit, he
is worth nothing. The authors of Aus-
tralia’s defence scheme recognised the fact
that the area officer was worth something
approximating to a living wage, by laying it
down that the lads who will emerge from
Duntroon in four years’ time, shall start as
area officers at £5 per week. The present
men are worth at least as much as the boys
who will ultimately supplant them. By all
the laws of equity, since they are handling
a new, and consequently difficult, job, and
since their tenure of the said job is insecure,
they should be paid on a considerably more
generous scale than their successors.
Sweating in High Places.
According to the Melbourne correspondent
of one of the Sydney dailies :
The inability of the High Court to cope with the
long list of cases awaiting consideration, followed
by the compulsory postponement of the Melbourne
term (which was to. begin on September 1), has
caught the attention of the Prime Minister, and the
Government is considering, the question of appointing
more High Court Judges.
This paper pointed out the need of the above
move upwards of 18 months ago, and the
urgency of it has been growing steadily more
apparent ever since. Under the present sys-
tem the Judges are sweated in a way that
no Wages Board would tolerate. One result
is that the frailer members of the High
Court Bench keep breaking down in health.
Justice Barton knocked up badly the year
before last, and was in retirement for
months; O’Connor had to take a long sea
trip this year; and to those who frequent the
courts it is obvious that C.J. Griffith is
rapidly tiring. The State Judges are en-
titled to long holidays every five years, and
it may be fairly said that they earn them.
The members of the High Court have no
such privilege (though their work is consid-
erably more arduous), and if they had they
would be only able to exercise it at the cost
off immense public inconvenience and loss.
Two big industrial matters —the Engine
Drivers and Merchant Service Guild cases
-—have been held up owing to O’Connor’s
recent illness. They were argued at great
length and proportionate cost before the
absent Judge’s four colleagues. There was
a deadlock, and, as the outcome, both these
big cases have to be re-argued, at ruinous
expense to all concerned. Various urgent
matters will be delayed thereby, and mean-
while there are some 20 Land Tax appeals
to be dealt with in N. S. Wales alone; also,
the Vend appeal has to finish dragging its
portentous and costly length across the legal
landscape. It may be mentioned, incident-
ally, that this appeal only came on for hear-
ing last week, after being postponed three
times on account of C.J. Griffith’s ill-
health. On each occasion Mitchell, K.C.,
Starke and other highly-fee’d Victorian bar-
risters hurried to Sydney to no purpose, and
all round the disbursal of unnecessary money
was absolutely tragic. This demented condi-
tion of things has been going on for years,
and so long as there are but five Judges to
handle a job that is capable of keeping about
twice that number in pretty constant work, it
is bound to continue. In fact, it is going to
get w r orse in precise ratio to the number of
Judges that break down. A sort of vicious
circle is created by the position; the absent
Judge or Judges causing more work, the in-
creased work knocking out more Judges, and
so on. The original proposal of old Henry
Parkes was that there should be 10 High
Court - Judges. It was scoffed at as a wildly
extravagant idea at the time. Experience
has proved that it was not so. The fewest
Australia can well do with is seven High
Court Judges, a quota which will bring the
first Court of the Commonwealth on a num-
erical level with (say) the N. S. Wales
State Court. Failing at least two more of
these officials, the High Court of Australia
is bound shortly to find itself in the same
grotesque predicament as the American
Supreme Court, which, from a like cause, is
at the present time a matter of four years
in arrears with its work.
“Hermes” writes: —
The remarks ox Rev. F. B. Cowling and Mr.
Varney Parkes, at a meeting of the Peace Society,
or some such traitorous organisation, in Sydney, last
week, leave one- undecided whether this pair of
beauties should be sent to join Mr. Chidley, or for
an early morning walk with a firing party. The
Rev. Cowling said that, if Australia was to have a
fighting force, it would not be got by compelling
young men to join the military. Later, lie said
that, if the Japanese did come, it would be in twos
and sixes and dozens, qnd they would locate them-
selves for a time before, they made a hostile move.
Then he went on to that he had it on the
authority of Mr. Btrtl£§; ’that there were thousands
and thousands of Japanese settled in the Northern
Territory at some distance from the coast. That
remarkable son of his father, Mr. Varney Parkes,
said that parents had more to do with their boys
than train them up as soldiers. If they were going
to heve a sound democracy, let the lads be trained
to till the land, or become mechanics. The soldier’s
Die was a lazy one.
According to the remarkable parson Cowling, the
Japanese are already here, “located for a time before
they make a hostile move,” which is advanced appai-
ently as a reason why Australia should discard compul-
sory military service ! Hasn’t this parson read the Bible
and learned that the goods of the strong man armed
are safe, while the goods of the other fellow are the
perks of the spoiler? If he hasn’t, it is time he did.
The bewildered and dazed Parkes seemed to be
unaer the impression that the boys who are under-
going compulsory military service are being trained
exclusively to be soldiers, and have been compelled
to drop the learning of trades or agriculture. The
concluding remark of this gentleman, to the effect
that we wall never have the need for soldiers so long
as the boys are taught to be good citizens, reveals
such an amazing ignorance of the affairs of the
world as to suggest that, when a Japanese army
arrives, Mr. Parkes will propose telephoning for a
grocer or a churchwarden. Liberal electors who
have wives and daughters, let alone property, to
defend should really consider if it is wise to have
such a person as Parkes in Parliament in any
capacity. A man who seriously regards the training
of a boy to a trade as a safeguard against invasion is
not fit to be at large, let alone in a Legislature.
However, even this gathering of traitors had its
humorist —humorists run in all shapes. This was the
Rev; Rivett, who objected to the compulsory military
training, because the boys had to train at night in
the ..open, and occasionally heard filthy language. It
never seemed to occur to this pure-minded angel in
trousers that, if there is filthy language “in the
open,” a boy is just as liable to hear it while going
to school, or going to church. Does he want to keep
all boys shut up in kegs? And if, after all the
money the human race has paid to people like
Rivett for many centuries, all God’s splendid Out-
doors is so full of “language” as to be unfit for a
boy to inhabit, why wgste any more money on
Rivett ?
—" ♦
Last week, in the o/dney District Court,
the widow of a carter sued Geo. Hudson
and Co., the big timber people, for compen-
sation for the loss of her husband. He was
accidentally killed while driving one of the
firm’s carts near Blackwattlc Swamp. The
defence was that the accident did not occur
“in, on or about” the factory of the em-
ployer, Blackwattle Swamp being six
miles away from Hudson’s head office. And
it succeeded. Now it is a common failing
for carters to travel away from their em-
ployers’ factory. In fact, they do about 27
times more work away from the place than
they do “in or about it.” A man who is
employed conveying goods through Sydney’s
congested, steep and motor-haunted tho-
roughfares is far more exposed to risk than
he who simply does a job of loading, or what
not, in the backyard of the boss’s premises.
Yet, by last week’s decision, while the latter
is legally protected, the former has no
redress whatever. This glaringly obvious
hole, in an otherwise sound Act, should be
plugged up before the Law gets a further
chance to be shown up as an illogical and
inconsequential ass, through whose well-
meaning provisions any old Gent. One can
drive a herd of dinosaurs.
“Blue Tape” writes; —
The Post Office has had many clods heaved at it
since the Commonwealth took over the letter-carrying
job ; but the time now seems to be ripe to fire
another. It concerns the question of “temporary
employees.” A temporary employee, in ordinary
business life, knows that his job is fleeting. He
regards it merely as a bough to rest his financial
feet, ere resuming his flight in search of a per-
manency whereon he may build his nest. The
Government “temporary” is a different bird alto-
gether. He sometimes dies of old age before his
casual job peters out. The general impression seems
to be that a Government “temporary” in hand is
worth two private permanencies in the offing. So the
“temporary” hangs on and lets other chances go by.
After two or three temporary year? he begins to
regard himself as a fixture. He is working as hard
as the next man, knows his job as’well as any man
in the service, and is, therefore, abld to give the
public good value for his salary. Probably, owing
to his acquired feeling of security, he enters into the
terribly permanent contract of matrimony and
acquires a permanent wife, and a permanent child
or two with permanent appetites. All is well—or
apparently so. Then out of , a clear sky falls a ton
of red tape. For some unexplained reason the
system of “temporary” hands has been judged un-
satisfactory, and is to be discontinued. A new, raw
“permanent” blunders in, is taught his business by
the experienced “temporary,” and presently sup-
plants his tutor in the job. The unfortunate “tem-
porary,” having drifted past the age’ limit during his
term of service, is ineligible to make a fresh start
up the ladder he knows, and is turned adrift with
his private permanencies on his hands, while the new
man fumbles his way and the public rages at the
counter. One, signing himself “Letter-carrier,” in-
dicated lately, in a letter to Sydney Sun, that the
Fisher Government is about to carry out some
manosuvre of this. kind. As well as being unjust, it
seems, on the face of it, to be a waste of time and
experience. If the “temporary” hands, who are
about to die, have been so painfully inefficient as to
deserve such treatment, the Fisher Government
might explain why some of these useless young men
have been allowed to linger on in the service for
from one to three years. If, on the other hand, they
have done reasonably good work, and are merely
being automatically choked out of the service with
the surplus red tape, Prime Minister Andrew
would do well to see that they are taken on the per-
manent staff. The Department has been so roundly
cursed by press and public, and has acquired such a
horde of enemies, that it really can’t afford to make
any more serious mistakes.
These are the days when the more rampant
variety of Australian child-warrior “takes a
lunar” at his commander-in-chief with im-
punity, and his commander-in-chief doesn’t
know how to out an end to the impunity.
The curse of shiftlessness and half-hearted-
ness is coming home to roost. It was re-
solved, in the first place, to train the humble
and unfinished and unserviceable “kid” in-
stead of the citizen of 21 and upwards, be-
cause the former hadn’t a vote, and so
couldn’t throw out the Government if he
didn’t like the arrangement. That looked
like taking the line of least resistance, but
the line proved, as it usually does, to be
greased and slippery. If a brawny, full-
grown male recruit was absolutely unman-
ageable, an upstanding area officer might
meet him in a quiet place, and bid him “put
them up,” and after six rounds there might
be a better understanding. He can’t tell
somebody about as high as his knee to “put
them nn,” no matter how furious he mav
feel. The recruit of 20 or 21 might be fined.
and have the amount garnisheed out of his
wages; but the first-year cadet has no wages.
He can’t be sent to gaol for shirking ; there
are limits to the possibility of herding an
infant with criminals. He can hardly even
be punished by confinement in a place of
military detention, lest he should howl too
bitterly for his mother and his feeding bottle.
Out of an easy-going desire to avoid trouble,
the whole compulsory military training sys-
tem is in difficulties. Even a robust and
off-hand officer, who would cheerfully take
on a dispute with three mutinous coal-heav-
ing recruits, feels himself helpless as things
stand. When an infant insurrectionist tells
him to go and hit somebody his own size that
practically ends the discussion.
“Plain Snaffle” writes on a Defence
matter: —
There is something utterly rotten in Australia’s
arrangements for supplying itself with remounts for
war purposes. For reasons over which the military
authorities have no control, the class of steed avail-
able is steadily deteriorating. And to this is added
the further catastrophe that such decent horses as
do offer are liable, apparently, to be ruined by bad
horse-mastership. A Board of Inquiry investigated
this latter scandal in N. S. Wales last week, and
whatever its findings are, the main fact will stand
that of late some hundreds of remounts have been
rendered useless during the humorously miscalled
“breaking-in” operations for any service other than
that of figuring as stars in a peripatetic buckjumping
show. The reason becomes glaringly obvious when
the methods which were employed with the wretched
animals are taken into consideration. A thousand of
them were yarded at Chipping North, near Liverpool,
the other day. They were not carefully “handled”
and mouthed, made to understand that there was
nothing horrifying or agonising about their new
vocation in life, and, in general, treated as the mere
coper treats his equine goods. Instead, a small
band of breakers was let loose on them. They were
energetically “roughed,” one by one—which is to say
they were ridden to a standstill, by experts at such
feats. They were turned adrift to await their period
of service. What wonder that scores of the animals,
which, with reasonable treatment, would have be-
come quiet, handy, mounts, were turned into out-
laws? The men at Victoria Barracks wondered
blankly what had smitten them when the allegedly
tamed remounts arrived there. Experienced horse-
men were thrown right and left. Three men had to
be taken to the hospital. A team bolted in the bar-
rack square and did a deal of damage. When the
horses went into camp the same performance was re-
peated on an extended scale. None but skilled buck-
jump riders were able to stay on a number of them.
A kind of panic set in. One of the officers com-
manding a Light Horse Regiment refused to accept
any of the half-demented beasts for his gun-section.
The daily papers chronicled the occurrence, and the
above-mentioned inquiry is one outcome of the reve-
lations that were made. Careless or unintelligent
handling of valuable animals, that have been bought
with the public’s money, is an offence that needs
to be scotched with firmness. The thousand horses
that were mishandled at Chipping North cost, on
an average, probably £2O each. As a result of
being “broken-in,” a goodly proportion of them
would be now unsaleable at £8 per head. It is
rotten economy, and the position is rendered all the
more tragic by reason of the fact that the Common-
wealth has no serviceable remounts to spare.
-<>
On a recent Sunday English Noncom-
formity shouted with gladness over its 250th
birthday. Strictly speaking, its origin was
much farther back than the beginning of the
Act of Uniformity on Black Bartholo-
mew’s Day, but if it likes to look younger
than it is, that is its own affair. Whether
there is much to whoop about since 1662 is
another matter. The Nonconformist think-
ing machinery has had a tremendous influ-
ence in politics, and that influence has
generally been exercised on the side of some-
thing which looked like reform. It has also
made enormous progress in the numerical
sense, and there are now rather more people
in the various dissenting churches of Eng-
land than there are in the established places
of prayer and psalm singing. Also, there
are more people in neither than in both.
The churches of all brands in London
wouldn’t nearly hold its population, even if
the people were packed in layers like 1 sar-
dines instead of being planted in rows in the
pews. Nonconformity stands for the survi-
val of the individualistic idea in religion,
and in the days when individualism was the
moving force in Europe it did big things.
To-day it is clean up against the spirit of
the times, and everywhere faint mutterings
of re-union and closer association among
the various religious bodies are being heard.
It is just as well to celebrate any old event
in its history while there is enough enthusi-
asm to go round, for it doesn’t look as if
there was likely to be very much more his-
tory left after the reorganisation schemes
have got fairly started. Also, all sorts of
commemorations are associated with a
special collection-plate, and collection-plates
fill a very important part in what is left of
Nonconformist history.
♦
Scandalised cry from “Ex-Public Ser-
vant” :
Do I sleep, do I dream, or is all the windy talk
of the Right-thinking Person about the Public Ser-
vice being free from political control a delusion
and a mendacity. I ask, because I chanced to stray
into the N. S. Wales Assembly on the 27th ult., what
time J. Macartiiuk Onslow, 'of Waverley, was bleat-
ing angrily about one Pike. Onslow wanted a
Select’ Committee to consider the case of Pike. It
presently appeared that the protegg of Onslow was
a coal-heaver in the pilot service, and that he pos-
sessed a grievance dated 1900. What precise wrong
it was that had been inflicted on Onslow's coal-
heaving pal I never quite gathered, and don’t know
now. Anyhow, it couldn’t have been anything par-
ticularly terrible, nor could the Department have
been inspired with excessive venom against Pike,
since he is still employed in the Public Service, being
the persuader of a Government launch on Sydney
Harbor. After the business of the country had been
held up for the best part of a sitting in connection
with his mysterious grievance or wrong., most of the
Liberals present trotted off to vote for the com-
mittee, while the Laborites, aided by Twaddell, an
ex-Treasurer, who had struggled in his time with
the Pike trouble, voted the other way. And so
Pike lost by a pair of votes. Now, suppose Pike
had got his committee, and a friendly crowd of
politicians had wept tears over his 12-year-old griev-
ance, and had spoken rudely to the P. S. Board.
Suppose, furthermore, that Parliament had upheld
the committee, and had the Board. What
then? It is said that there are 1000 appeals now
pending against the Board, and the whole 1000 ap-
pellants would be able to claim an equal right to
trundle their little hoops before the Legislature. By
their attitude in the case of Pike, the WADE-ites
have tacitly admitted the right of a public officer
with a political pull to butt into the middle of a
busy session. With a general election imminent, they
directly invite every employee in the Public Service
to manipulate any political card at his disposal. The
fact that the Premier upheld the P. S. Board and kept
the Waverley volunte°r warrior at bay, does not
affect the point, which is that the Pike case should
never have been so much as seriously discussed. As
things turned out, it was a pity that the motion was
lost. The granting of the committee would have
forced the hand of the Board. It would have been
driven in that case either to abandon every shred of
its authority over the Service or to fight. It must
n-irp rintin t' e latter wi f h the result that such a
scrap would have broken loose as would have made
the flinging of a newspaper out of the Assembly
appear a mere casual trifle.
The Defence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While sternly opposing all forms of sweating in
Australian industries, the Federal Government con-
tinues to admit sweated goods through the Customs
in increasing quantities.-— Lamentable fact.
Not guilty, yer Honers! I talks to yer
straight!
An’ I calls it a pretty crook game—
An’ an ’og of a thing, if the coppers should
bring
Such dishonor as this on me name —
On me name that ’as stood fer up’oldin’ the
good !
It’s enough to make any bloke weep !
An’ the goods as they says I received—spare
me days!
Don’t I tell yer I bought ’em dirt cheap!
Yes, I bought ’em dirt cheap; an’ I says to
the Bench,
As a man ’oo acts honest an’ square,
That me solid defence is poun’s, shillin’s an’
pence,
An’ I arsts yer to deal with me fair.
Fer it’s more than a joke when a square-
livin’ bloke
Is ’ad up fer committin’ a crime;
Fer the John, ’ere, ’e swears to the goods,
an’ declares
As I knoo they was pinched at the time.
But, gentlemen, listen, I bought ’em dirt
cheap!
As the bloke ’ere, who sold ’em kin swear.
But they say ’e was crook, an’ the goods
that ’e took
Wasn’t got, so to speak, on the square.
Well, per’aps that’s all true, an’ they ses
that I knoo
They wus pinched when I made ’im the
bid.
It ’ud be a fair sin fer to miss that chuck in;
So I arsts: Wot’s the odds if I did?
’Ere’s the Cop ses I’m charged with receivin’
the goods,
As I bloomin’ well knoo to be stole;
But then that isn’t stealin’ meself, an’ I
feel
As I ortn’t to be in this ’ole.
Fer I never stole things in me life, an’ I
brings
Twenty witnesses ’ere fer to say
That in all er me days I ’ave alius earned
praise
Fer up’oldin’ the straight, honest way.
Yus, I alius ’ave preached that to steal wus
a sin,
An’ I never pinched things in me life;
An’ I brings up me kids as strict honesty
bids,
An’ I gotter respectable wife.
I am known in our street as a man ’ard to
beat
At condemnin’ all thievin’ an’ crime;
An’ there’s clergymen ’ere as is ready to
clear
Up me character every time.
So, yer Honers, I arsts to be cleared o’ the
charge;
An’ I think yer should say, at the time,
Me respectable name is quite free frum all
blame
In connection with thievin’ and crime.
Fer me great repitation’s at stake, in a way;
It’s a thing as I’m anxious ter keep;
Fer I never been once in the — Wot’s that?
Six munce !
But, yer Honers, I got them things cheap!
VICTORIA.
C. D.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . . .
“MACKIE'S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
66
*
To kill a little time pleasantly
when you are down town and have half an hour that you
don't know what to do with
Just drop into one of our theatres.
They’re always open—you can find no more pleasing or
profitable way of spending the time. The cost is a trifle.
Get the Moving Picture habit.
It’s a good habit.
Crystal Palace, Lyric,
Colonial, Empress—
In the Picture block, Sydney.
Britannia and Melba—
In the heart of Melbourne.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
The Allegedly Wonderful Cost of
Living.
The Commission which was appointed _in
Maoriland to consider the allegedly amazing
cost of living has investigated long and
earnestly, and has presented its report. The
document covers many points, and goes into
considerable detail. It is reckoned that
within the last 16 years (since “the middle
of the later ’9o’s”) the price of food, cloth-
ing, lighting, fuel and rent have all risen.
The total cost of existence is said to have
gone up 16 per cent. At the same time, the
average income has gone up so much faster
that the dear food of to-day absorbs less of
the toiler’s wages than did the cheaper food
of 17 years ago. So greatly, it is alleged,
has the condition of the public improved
since the low-tariff times of the ’Bo’s of last
century that the average individual has in-
creased his consumption of commodities by
100 per cent. As he couldn’t hold twice as
much victuals in bulk, the inference is that
he holds twice as much in quality—that he
has got out of the dry-bread stage and into
the caviare stage. The increase of prices
was, of course, unavoidable; if a number of
men used to get 3d. for making an article
worth 4d.. it is plain that they can’t get
sd. and the article be still worth only 4d.
But the great point is that while prices have
gone up in Maoriland. wages have gone up
faster, unlike England—the country where
dog lately became an article of diet —where
the rise of prices was not accompanied by
anv corresponding movement in wages. Rather
did Bull’s wages tend downwards in cer-
tain years. And the rise of food prices in
Maoriland, at its worst, wasn’t so steep as
that in England. Thus the British Board
of Trade recently reported that, when the
price of a fixed quantity of goods—cwt. or
stone or gross or whatever weight or measure
is commonly used in selling the article —for
1896 was compared with that of 1910 the
rise was as follows: —
1896. 19] 0. Increase.
Bread .. .. £4 13 0 £5 14 0 \£l 1 0
Flour .. .. 480 60 0 1 12 0
Beef . . . . 4 12 0 5 13 0 1 1 0
Mutton .. 490 540 0 15 0
Pork .. .. 4140 550 0110
Bacon .. .. 3180 6180 300
Butter . . . . 4 15 0 5 6 0 0 11 0
Eggs . . . . 4 11 0 5 12 0 1 1 0
Cheese . . . . 4 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 0
Tea .. .. 4 10 0 500 0 10 0
Cocoa . . . . 4 13 0 5 0 0. 0 7 0
Sugar .. .. 5 00 040 140
Jam, treacle, mar-
malade .. 500 5 9 0 090
Currants . . 4 3 0 6 6 0 2 3 0
Raisins . . 3 17 0 5 5 0 1 8 0
Rice .. . . 412 0 4 13 0 0 1 0
Tapioca . . 4 0 0 5 5 0 1 5 0
Oatmeal . . 5 0 0 5 13 0 0 13 0
That is what Bull, the Freetrader, has had
to put up with, with no upward tendency of
wages to counterbalance the trouble. There-
fore the Maorilander should consider that he
is on a pretty good wicket so far, and not
grumble overmuch. During the 10 years to
1910 his Post Office Savings Bank deposits
rose from £2O to £25 per inhabitant, which
isn’t too bad, and showed that he had a
steadily increasing balance of receipts over
expenditure. At all events, it is better than
eating the roast dog of Old England.
One James Gilmour told what the S. M.
Herald of last Monday called a li—beg
pardon—a story illustrating the late General
Booth’s “indomitable courage.” The
General, it appeared, was once sneaking to
an Australian crowd of Darkest England.
Inspired by “white , Australian” feelings, the
audience did not want any of the criminal classes
transplanted out here. The General was keenly in-
tuitive, and felt exactly what was in the minds of his
audience. As he spoke, he described a shinload of
happy families coming to Australia. Suddenly the
ship sprang a leak. A passing ocean liner, appealed
to for help, could not assist because the people must
not be brought to Australia. The General turned on
the crowd, and with his frame quivering with oas-
sion, said : “There is a judgment day, and we shall
tneet again.” “I look upon those words as pro-
phetic,” said Mr. Gilmour.
It was apparently intended by Mr. Gilmour
or the Herald or somebody for a warning,
or a Stinking Fish, or something, but it
strikes this paper as the most futile thing
that couid well be nut in print. The ship-
load of happy families was “coming to Aus-
tralia.” The ship struck a leak—scuttled,
possibly, by an anti-immigrationist. who
afterwards’ fled in a dinghy, with a jug of
water and a tin of ox-tongue. Then the pass-
ing liner refused to help because these people,
who were “coming to Australia” in any
case, “must not be brought to Australia.”
Why they must not be brought when they
were being brought isn’t mentioned, and
their after tote is wrapped in the gloom of
allegory. Then the General turned to the
crowd (what crowd?! and said, “his frame
quivering with passion” (though Heaven
knows what he quivered about), that he and
the crowd would “meet again.” That sort of
event happens often. When the average
man parts from the waitress at his restaur-
ant he often says—quivering perhaps with
excess of soup, or by reason of an overcharge
of 3d. —-that they will meet again, and tliev
generally do- —next day. What is the trash
all about, and where does the General’s “in-
domitable courage” come in? Also, what
was the name of the shin, and the liner, and
the scuttler (if there was such a person)
who got away with the tog of water and the
tin of ox-tomrue, and where did it happen,
and when? It seems like a pork dream.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Nightbirds.”
Criterion “Gel-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Royal “ Passers- By.”
Adkli’iii ........ ... “ Her Forbidden Marriage.”
Palace “The Girl from Wayback.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1& 2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess 1
Olympia V West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium J
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Imperial Rlvk Boiler Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her. Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s “ Brought to Ruin.”
King’s “ Merrie England.”
Royal “ Ben Hut”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prnhran Photo Plays.
Glaciarium Ice Gliding.
Atiienteum Hall Hugard.
Bijou “ World, Flesh, and Devil.”
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Town Hall Kirkby Lunn Concerts.
“Nightbirds” is back in Sydney—this time
at Her Majesty’s. About the most popular
turns are the singing by W. Talleur Andrews
of the “Blue Danube” number, and the
dancing of the “bunny hug” by Edward
Sherras and Miss Arundale. Incidentally,
Jack Cannot knocks a quantity of ripe,
fruity humor out of the role of Count Max
Clicquot, and Miss Young sings nicely as
his countess, and W. S. Percy and Victor
Prince tear down mirth and applause
from the gallery like famished jesters, and
Miss Dorothy Brunton dances and carols
divinely and looks the last thing in allure-
ment, as Minna. If the writer has omitted
to give three cheers for any member of the
cast —the head scene-shifter or the chief
limelight expert, or anyone like that—he
hereby abases himself and throws moun-
tains on his head. All are admirable, and
the cheery show goes from start to finish
with the swing and vim and rush of some
melodious motor-car bolting down a steep
hill.
“GET- RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD, ’
AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Wallingford (fired N'tblo) and Daw (Corson
Clarke) getting the “ Boobs" exceted.
Man’s insatiable longing for change is
pandered to at the National Amphitheatre
this week by the Wynfords, amongst others.
Those persons leap over chairs in a spry and
careless fashion, so that everyone is pleased.
Ultimately, one of them leaps over 10 chairs,
and then the delight of the onlookers ap-
proximates to delirium. There has been
nothing like it since the cow jumped over
the moon in the children’s rhyme, to the
horror of the sky populace, who saw a large
animal approaching at a fearsome pace. The
Olracs are still there, likewise Grace Comp-
ton and Mabel and Molfe.
“The Girl Without a Home” will again
be turned adrift to-morrow night, after hav-
ing put in a fairly busy three weeks at the
Adelphi. On Saturday night, what is de-
scribed in the “London Press” (what part
of it, or how much of it, doesn’t, of course,
matter) as “a play which presents all possi-
ble sensations in spasms, and goes through
the fullest gamut of various emotions, etc.,”
besides being a “whirlwind drama of sur-
prises,” and several minor items, will lob
into Sydney. But it will only remain for 12
nights, and will be the last appearance of
the Paget-Buckler combination. The new-
comer answers to the homely name of “Her
Forbidden Marriage.”
“Get-Rich-Slick Wallingford,” at the Cri-
terion. seems about as permanent as the
eternal hills, the rise in prices, Speaker
Willis, the Scotchbyterian yearning to wear
kilts, and the policy of dragging everything
to Sydney. In sheer weariness of influenza
this scribe states once more that there is-
no sign yet of the last 742 nights.
No newer artist having come to the Tivoli,
Minnie Kaufmann is still cycling in the
forefront of the bill, and keeping up the
delightful illusion that it is 1596 again.
H. G. Wells’s bicycling story, “The Wheels
of Chance,” is a literary Heat in store. The
balancing Schenk Brothers are supporting
themselves by supporting each other, the
Stavordale Quintette keep twanging, and
Rich and Rich continue to be agreeably
idiotic, in clothes that would get them
rushed away to an asylum if they fell out
of the theatre. Chinko’s juggling, the
Sprightly Sisters’ burlesques, and Jessie
Stuart’s songs are the other desirable pro-
longations of the second part.
“The Girl from Wayback,” at present
residing at the Palace, does not live up to
her large poster—the one which shows a
partly-wrecked mail coach, with the severed
head of the funny man sticking to the box
seat, and a Past Grand Sundowner (or per-
haps it is an Arch Rabbit) trying to discon-
ceal himself behind a totally-inadequate log,
while the villain does something with a wire
in the middle of the road, and two faces at
the window of the broken-down vehicle emit
silent howls. (The writer is describing from
a fleeting tram glimpse, so it is possible that
some of the fine details may have escaped
him. The above, however, is a faithful
record of the impression he carried away.)
Of course, no play could live up to a splendid
poster like that and remain in Australia.
London, Paris and New York would clamor
for it by cable, and it would only get back
here in its old age, when all the great capi-
tals had discovered a new joke. “The Girl”
isn’t really that sort of production. It is a
more or less serious Australiah drama, which
carefully avoids the permanent and reproduc-
tive bushranger, and substitutes a persistent
sort of villain, who is more or less mixed up
with wire all through the piece; and the
Arch Rabbit or Past Grand Sundowner, who
knows enough about telegraphy to foil him
in his efforts to effect the ruin of a bright
young postal official who was choked out of
the muddled service by an excess of red tape.
The lamentable stupidity of the handsome
Girl, who can’t tell the villain from the
hero, keeps the play going on and the bad
man cursing till a suitably late hour. A
brighter heroine would have cut the play
short; this one keeps it tottering along until
the usual horse hurries home in front of the
other animals, thus getting the hero out of
debt in a thoroughly immoral manner. “A
serviceable melodrama” is the curious de-
scription applied to the play by the morning
paper which was not thrown out of the
N.S.W. Assembly by Speaker Willis. And
yet it does not in the least resemble a pair
of strong boots. Madge Plope is the heroine
who doesn’t know the hero when she sees
him; Herbert Linden shouts with great
abandon as the villain : and Harry Beaumont
presents a careful study of an Arch Rabbit.
Other characters escape calumny here by
being of no importance.
Although “At the Last Hour” was repre-
sented as the star film at Spencer’s this
week, “The Apple Industry in N.S.W.” (a
glimpse of the apple orchards in the Bath-
urst district) was of much more local in-
terest. The whole of the proceedings, from
picking the fruit to loading ; the ships, was
shown. The apples are collected and thrown
into cases, which are made dn* the premises.
The fruit is then graded, wrapped and
packed. At both the box-making and the
wrapping the men become wonderfully ex-
pert—the average wrapper doing over 100
apples a minute, and the case-maker knock-
ing together about 50 cases an hour. The
cases are then trucked to Sydney (most
things are), and shipped from there (most
things are, except the things that are shipped
to there).
Oscar Aselie abandons Sydney Royal after
to-morrow (Friday) night, and on Saturday
“Passers-By” is to arrive. The new play is
by C. Haddon Chambers, one time of Aus-
tralia, and now of London, and it has been
a howling, not to say shrieking, success in
New York. Miss Hilda Spong and Harcourt
Beatty are in the cast.
* * *
The chief item in a quiet Adelaide week
has been the Price Conigrave lectures. The
public has hardly thought so, but it re-
sponded a little better when the talks on
native customs were announced “for men
only.” (Mark Twain says something caustic
on this ground-bait for an audience.) Young
and bearded, Conigrave looks the ideal ex-
plorer, and fie has some fresh things to say
about the comparatively unknown north-
west of this, continent. Incidentally, he men-
tioned that it is no place for the small capi-
talist, that the big firms “carry the small
men on their backs,” and that lack of com-
bination has made cattle-raisers take £3 2s.
a head at Wyndham for beasts that were
resold at Fremantle within the fortnight for
£23 155.! The Asiatics, he thinks, will
" Oh, the Fashions! Which do yon like the
best? ” The Sprightly Sisters at the Tivoli.
come in not by way of a battle-fleet, but
even more irresistibly by steady, stealthy
immigration. The Bert Bailey co. has
moved on from the Royal to Broken Hill,
making way for William Anderson’s revival
of the “Prince and Beggar-Maid” romance.
Miss Eugenie Duggan is now the barefooted
princess, and Cyril Mackay the favored
prince, but Rutland Beckett, as the princely
villain, and Max Clifton, as the princely
hunchback, have about equal chances. The
whole atmosphere is intensely regal. The
variety shows are strong on the musical side.
The Tivoli has the grand tenor Marini, and
the King’s respond with the Jourdane quar-
tet and Romanoff’s inspired fiddle. At the
former, Fred Russell exchanges ventriloquial
insults with his Coster lad —a fine piece of
mechanism ; and Hera juggles marvellously.
At the latter is Edna Davies, a distinct
novelty as a lady jiu-jitsu exponent. Other
shows have varied from a University Con-
servatorium concert to a widespread holding
of “Wattle Day” on August 31 as a national
festival.
He * *
The fifth of the Kirkby Lunn concerts at
Melbourne Town Hall happens this (Thurs-
day) afternoon. Again, on Saturday, the
smooth-toned contralto artist-in-chief, sup-
ported by a fully satisfactory co., will pre-
sent a somewhat mixed programme. After
which, General Desire, or his brothah
officah Request, may be expected to approach
the management.
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) is putting
“The Quaker Girl” through her eighth week,
and the first warning of her last nights may
be expected to happen shortly. To-morrow,
(Friday) a matinee in aid of the Actors’
Association will keep a section of Mel-
bourne’s visiting population from wander-
ing at large between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m.
$ 5* x
At Melbourne Royal, which looks larger
for having turned pale in the presence of the
redecorator, “Ben Hur” is revealing itself
in six acts, 12 scenes and a prelude. In its
first and final scenes the picturesque drama
draws upon the New Testament for support.
The prelude is a misty depiction of three
wise men from the East kneeling before the
Star of Bethlehem, what time that guiding
emblem threatens to burst into fireworks
and emit a splutter of colored sparks. The
final tableaux represent a gathering of the
“very earliest Christians” on the Mount of
Olives and in the Valley of II inn on, where
Ben Ilur’s mother and sister are cleansed of
their leprosy by means too miraculous to be
lightly mentioned. But it seems permissible
to state that the assemblage of hymn-singing
ladies remind one of the recent decease of
General Booth, albeit they wear no bonnets
or tambourines, and are unaccompanied by a
brass band. If “Ben Hur” appealed only
to the Christian Faith of its audiences, the
response would not be hearty. The super-
natural incidents are unimpressive. Apart
from these, the show has worldly attractions
which put it in touch with the “Sign of the
Cross” on the one hand, and with Drury
Lane drama on the other.
* * * *
The arrest of Judah Ben Hur, on the false
charge of dropping a piece of his palace
parapet on the head of an unholy Roman in
the Jerusalem street below, and the sending
of that noble Semitic youth to work as a
galley-slave, whilst his mother and sister are
immured in a leprous dungeon, give the story
a forceful send-off. Hur, holding his bene-
factor, the Tribune, on a small raft on the
open sea is a fine stage picture. • When Hur
begins his new life as a Jew-Roman citizen,
the plot takes a sporting, Druriolanic turn.
A burly country squire, or Arab sheik, enters
his team of steeds for a chariot race, and
engages Hur to drive them. Properly
piloted they are bound to beat the favorites,
belonging to Messala ; the shiny young
Roman villain of the piece, who incidentally
is competing with the hero for the smile of
an Egyptian siren. Hur drives the Sheik’s
dark horses in a successful trial, with the
owner looking on and timing him, and then
the stable money is invested at five to one,


STECK
1
New Shipments of STECKS monthly in
Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut, Rosewood,
Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony, in Art Cases
One of the World’s
Great
PIANOS.
The STECK Piano has been made for over
fifty years, and the constant effort is to pro-
duce an instrument of such positive and
genuine merit that its reputation will grow,
and its name and trade-mark constantly be-
come more valuable as the years pass by.
The most careful buyer, with whom the pur-
chase of a piano means the investment of a
lifetime, is entirely safe from every view
point in selecting a STECK Piano, and will
find that his choice is endorsed by the dis-
criminating of his musical friends.
As manufacturers of the STECK we stake
our reputation on its being one of the best
Pianos possible to buy.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 George Street,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
252 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
436-438 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
London, Paris, Berlin and New York. [1
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS. Etc.
Lowest Rates Oiiarsed,
' Prions No. - J3O Csntral.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manag-er.
not in quids, but in talents. A Jew com-
missioner is employed to get the money on,
and he artfully tempts the offer of those
rash Roman odds before stating the amount
of his wager, or giving the name of his prin-
cipal. Subsequently, be offers to back Ben
once more for a level fiver (five talents),
whereupon the Romans rush him and the
lights go out. The Sheik’s pair of small
gees win the chariot race, in just the same
way as The Whip did the trick at Her
Majesty’s two years ago, and when they re-
turn to scale the pair of little ones have
expanded into four big ’uns, which is really
the best miracle of the evening. Messala,
the villain, takes the financial “knock.”
Then the villainous Iras, who had flirted
shockingly with Ben in a barge, before he
cooled off, conspires with Messala to recover
his losses, but the invalid father of the other
girl (a good little Jewess) comes along in a
bath ch'air of the period, and crushes the
conspiracy by producing a paper. And so
on, until the lepers are cleansed and Ben
falls into the arms of the faithful little
Jewess, who had loved him all along. After
marriage she will doubtless remind him often
of his _ misbehavior in the barge, and make
him wish the ocean had devoured him in the
second act.
Most of the histrionic strength is on the
male side of the co. Eric Maxon is only a little
too loud to be a quite admirable hero.
Eardley Turner is good as the honest steward
of the Hur property. Leonard Willey—the
villain-—supplies rough, noisy reminiscenses
of Julius Knight; and Winter-Hall, Atliol-
wood and Leslie Victor do full justice to
their small parts, whereas Styan’s sheik is
more like a large modern landowner in fancy
dress that an Arab potentate of a.d. 30 or
thereabouts. Among the ladies, Miss Bur-
roughs looks the showy part of the Egyptian
siren, and speaks it seductively, but is not
strong enough to realise its emotional possi-
bilities to the full. Which criticism applies
to Miss Dix, in the part of the dear little
Jewess. Miss Susie Vaughan gives a pleas-
ing performance of the unfortunate, fond
mother who gets lost and returns to notice
as a leper: Miss Phillips is a nice, unas-
suming sister of Ben, but Miss Alma
Vaughan, as the old nurse, is a solemn
failure. She doesn’t even suggest an aged
female in distress. A much more pathetic
item is the orchestra, which sits engloomed
between the acts, and appears to feel the
doleful music very keenly.
* * # He
If “Dangerous Women,” the passing show
at the King’s, were as reasonable in the
plot as it is in two or three of its incidents ;
the acting of Harrie Ireland and Maud
D’Alton, in the name parts ; of Miss Remee,
as the heroine; and Maisie Posner, in the
pants of precocious boyhood, would entitle
this great mystic drama to kindly toleration.
Unfortunately, the plot hinges upon an act
of imbecility due to Robert Inman’s ghostly
adviser, and is infested with the madness
of a lunatic asylum keeper, who invents a
resurrection tonic which he injects into the
mouldering dead, and awaits results. When
the live heroine is deposited in a family
vault, the doctor greets her as a triumphant
proof of his tonic’s efficacy, and proposes
to murder her with a view to resurrecting
her some more. In addition to its lurid
defects, the drama suffers from the worst
form of comic relief. An inglorious career
of 10 nights will terminate on Saturday.
Five nights next week the Arion Operatic
Society will struggle with Edward German’s
romantic opera, “Merrie England,” for the
first time in Australia. And then Bert
Bailey and eo. come along to put Dad and
the family on their Selection.
* * * *
The baby-choking drama at the Princess’s
had a cold time last week, but the crowd of
unsuspecting agricowturalists from off the
soil has rushed in where the locals forgot
to tread ; and “Brought to Ruin” will carry
on till further orders.
** * *
The bill at the Opera House is as before,
Hurley being the latest arrival, whilst Nella
Webb, the “diseuse,” is on the verge of de-
parture. If Hurley were a member of the
other sex in a bright hobble frock, he also
might rank as a “diseuse,” for his songs
have a conversational tendency, and his
smile is ingratiating. Owing to the accident
of birth, he became a Coster impersonator,
and constructed a pick-axe brigade on the
lines of Bluett’s boy scouts.
* * * *
Although anxious to speak kindly of its
old friends, “The World, the Flesh and the
Devil” (there used, by the way. to be a
rather fine historical play called “The Flesh
and the Devil,” in which Harry Diver was
the Devil), this paper remarks sadly that
things might be a lot better, and they would
have to hustle considerably to be very much
worse. The drama with which W. Cosgrove
appeals'to Melbourne at the Bijou might
perhaps be more appropriately called, “The
Tart Who Loved a Journalist.” Naomi
Rutherford is the maid thus afflicted, and she
expresses the opinion that journalism is “a
noble profession,” and waits for the applause
which, on the first night, failed to eventuate.
Naomi’s ma, a Smart Setter who looks dowdy
enough to be the wife of a curate, has other
plans for her daughter, having selected a
beefy stockbroker, hight Roger Swindon, to
be the architect of the girl’s misfortune. The
inkslinger of her heart is bluffed, by fat
Roger into purchasing Goldfinch scrip, which
is as worthless as discarded tram tickets;
but the Providence which watches over
drunkards and congenital idiots takes a hand,
and in the last act a Goldfinch boom sets in,
and the journalist is able to lay aside the
pastepot in favor of the fleshpot. Just
before the boom, Naomi flees from the meaty
speculator; and when he pursues her, he is
met by the pressman wearing a lamentable
dress suit and a stern demeanor. His worst-
laid schemes having come, to nought, the
villain retires beaten, and Is hurried out of
this vale of bulls and bears by the bullet of
a Socialist whose daughter he has betrayed.
As the bull of shares and the bear of the
domestic hearth, William Cosgrove is en-
titled to a certain amount of respect. His
style is not wholly unlike that of Arthur
Styan, performing at the theatre opposite,
in “Ben Ilur.” Norman Campbell repre-
sents a journalist who, had he not adopted
literature as a means of hunger, might have
become the pride of the most expensive hair-
dressery in Perth, where the stirring events
transpire. Harry McDona is moderately
amusing as a medico suffering from an im-
pediment in his elocution ; and Miss Ethel
Chadwick, as the heroine, is at least worthy
of the gentleman who leads her altar-wards.
Natural benevolence must be accepted as
this paper’s excuse for not mentioning the
other characters in detail. The scenery of
the production has topographical value.
“Hay-street, Perth,” as a case in point, seems
to be a wilderness of trees and rocks,
threaded by a river of promiscuous habits,
and with chasms occurring at intervals.
KIRKEY LUNN CONCERTS, AT MEL-
BOURNE TOWN HALL.
Andre de
Ribaupierre,
violinist , and
his hair.
The Majestic opened portals on which the
paint was hardly dry in Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday, and an audience that
was both well dressed and highly nourished
sought to blot out the seating accommoda-
tion from the casual view. The manage-
ment lavishly supplies pictures, orchestra,
well-upholstered chairs, the use of cloak-
rooms and vestibules, and the ingratiating
smiles of the humblest ushers on earth, all
for prices ranging from one-tenth of a pound
to half a shilling. The opening programme,
which included two or three fine Kinema-
color subjects, was above the average; and
if the management can maintain its bills at
the same level the theatre’s future will be
nothing to grumble at.
When Spencer (Melbourne) stages a pic-
ture like “Saved from Siberia” he calls for
the loud compliment which expounds the
vacant want that he has filled. The adapter
has curiously plagiarised Max Pemberton’s
“Kronstadt” and improved on the yarn.
“Dr. La Fleur’s Theory” is an animated
subject recalling the proceedings in “Leah
Kleschna.” A film of some influence on
patriotic sentiment depicts the activity of
the naval and military branches of the Bull-
dog Breed, also a number of the late General
Booth’s military manoeuvres figure tiresomely
on the screen.
* :H * *
A fleet pair of hands, a mane of pale, fair
hair, and the sweet voice of a shop assistant
pushing a job line in socks, are the principal
assets of Hugard, who began a season at
Melbourne Athenaeum on Saturday last. The
visitor is in the same line of business as
Jansen and Nicola, and he shows a sort of
professional kinship with Chung Ling
Soo, the Scotch Mongol or Donald
Chinaman of other days. But he
goes one better than those in a notable
particular. Like the Duncan Chow already
mentioned, Hugard mysteriously produces
hot drinks and flowers and distributes them
freely among the populace, but on Saturday
he also turned an apparently empty cabinet
into a “penny dip,” and drew forth sweets,
cigarettes and cigars, which he flung to the
mob. This unexpected largesse filled the
great heart of the multitude with joy. Yet,
as a matter of fact, much of Hugard’s outfit
has the moss of time upon it. Here and
there, however, a pinnacle of bright excep-
tion appears above the wash of common-
place. For instance, Hugard allows you to
shoot him freely, and yet he isn’t dead.
Many other people are not dead, but then
they don’t urge the populace to fire cannon
at them.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Madge Mclntosh does not leave Australia. She
is engaged for lead in two of Randolph Bedford’s
plays, “The Love Child” and “The Unseen Eye,” to
be produced at Sydney Palace late in October.
Henry Halley, also a recent Blue Bird, joins the new
company. *
“Norbell”: The revival of “Message from Mars”
with George Titheradge as the Tramp, reminds me of
how well William F. Hawtrey played that beery
wreck 12 years ago. Ilawtrey, of course, had many
critics, acting being one of the things everybody
kno\ is all about. Leake, the then Premier of Wes-
tralia, was in Ilawtrey’s dressing-room in Perth, be-
tween the acts of “Mars,” and was pointing out how
the Tramp should be played. He added, by way of
apology, “You know, Hawtrey, I was rather a good
actor myself some years ago, though you mightn’t
think it.” Hawtrey replied: “Oh, very likely. You
may be a very good actor although a very indifferent
Premier.”
KIRKEY LUNN
CONCERTS, AT
MELBOURNE
TOWN HALL.
EXIT WILLIAM
MURDOCH,
PIANIST.
Dear Bulletin, —You published a par. in May last
from a correspondent, who pointed out the simi-
larity, as regards plot, details, etc., of Galsworthy’s
“The Pigeon” and ' “Passers-by,” the play by my
brother, Haddon Chambers, which the J.O.W. man-
agement is staging- next Saturday night in
Sydney. According to this writer, the resem-
blance between the two plays was so close that
“it looked like plagiarism one way or the other.”
I wrote to Haddon on the subject, and got this reply:
“Galsworthy’s play, ‘The Pigeon,’ was produced in
London some months after the production of ‘Passers-
by.’ Some of the critics and many playgoers com-
mented on the similarity of Galsworthy’s work to
my own, but there the matter ended. I was out of
England and never saw ‘The Pigeon.’ The last-
named play found its way into publication in book-
form almost immediately, probably for the reason
that in the theatre it was not a success. The publi-
cation of ‘Passers-by’ has been postponed until such
time as the play’s popularity in America shall have
waned. Even to such reticences is one put in the
endeavor to frustrate the knavish tricks of one’s
friends, the transatlantic theatrical pirates.”
The point which I wish to establish (and I think
the facts disclosed in the above do establish it), is
that if there has been any plagiarism the blame
doesn’t lie with the Australian playwright.—Yours,
Lila Rooney.
“S.T.S.”: Presumably it is out of delicacy that
“Spasmode,” in his list of stage lovers who really
quarrelled (B. 22/8/’l2), passes Knight with a bare
reference: “What a lot of fair and unfair enemies
Julius Superbus had.” Yet he should have made a
standard instance, and one of much more interest to
Australian readers than Salvini with Ristori, or
Phelps with Helen Faueit. The first Mercia Australia
saw was Ada Ferrar, and probably no two stars ever
were on worse terms than those two all the time he
was playing the passion-struck Marcus. Knight,
being a gentleman, said little or nothing about this
private animosity. She, not being one, talked freely
to non-theatrical friends about the painfulness of
having to act with such a person.
Scene: The wharf just as the Zealandia moves off,
carrying Cisneros from Australia.
Persons: The magnificent figure of Cisneros, in,
white, solitary on the deck of the departing steamer,
four flappers at the edge of the wharf, and the usual
crowd and collection of torn colored streamers
Flossie Flapper: Good-bye !
Gertie Flapper: Look, she’s waving to us 1
Molly Flapper: She sees us 1
Annie Flapper (in ecstasy) : The dear!
Flossie Flapper: Let's coo ee!
The Four Flappers: Coo-ee!
Cisneros (faintly) : Coo-ee!
The Four Flappers
(The duck!
J Listen to her !
| Oh, that lovely voice!
l/fhe darling!
Gertie Flapper ( the tears streaming down her
face): Let’s eoo-ee again! (They, do so; from, the
departing steamer a fainter “Coo-ee” returns.)
Flossie Flapper: Ilear her! The duck!
Annie Flapper (weeping 2.) ounces to the ton) :
And it’s the last time we’ll hear her lovely voice!
Molly Flapper (moistly mopping): Look at her!
The angel! (Cisneros, in the distance, waves her
arms as if to embrace the whole of Darling Harbor.)
Gertie Flapper (.97 per cent, humidity): Oh,
wasn’t she a darling to wear white?
Annie Flapper (with secret pride) : I knew she
would.
Flossie Flapper: Look at her, the love I (The
insignificant figure in white makes distant gestures
like those of a mechanical toy. They might mean
anything from mere ennui to an epileptic fit.)
The Four Flappers (all industriously and frenziedly
mopping) : The angel! The darling! The duck !
Gertie Flapper: Anyway, I’ve got her darling sig-
nature in my autograph book. (Solemnly), No other
name shall ever be written there!
Annie Flapper: But she looked at me that last,
concert!
Molly Flapper: I’m sure she got the box of choco-
lates I sent her!
Flossie Flapper: Anyway, that last wave of hers
was to me !
(The diminutive white dot disappears, probably to
lunch.)
Gertie Flapper (miserably mopping) : Oh, well,
she’s gone!
Flossie Flapper: I won’t be able to touch a bite
for lunch !
Annie Flapper: Let’s all go and have an ice-cream
soda !
(Carried unanimously. Exeunt omnes.)
“Stargazer": La Freya at Melbourne Opera House
is a development of the “La Milo” idea of our
friend “Cruickshank” Lang. Pansy Montague Milo
went on as undraped rock. La Freya appears as
a striped seraph, who presently has pictures and
colored dry goods sprayed over her by the man who
squirts the limelights. As a human sample in glove
tights, the lady is worthy of respectful admiration ;
as the centrepiece of the alleged “original, beautiful,
artistic visions,” she is something in the nature of a
lost chord. The pictures are crude, and the magic-
lantern garments that obscure La Freya’s native beauty
are never of sufficient interest to justify their being
considered as anything but an unmannerly intrusion.
The show holds only because of the public’s con-
sciousness of the fact that a lovely female in pearly
skin-tight fleshings is hidden away somewhere under
the motley mat of paint.
“Harrison O.”: Writing in Melbourne Akgus, G. S.
Titheradge deplores the attempts that are being made
to establish an Actors’ Union, and urges members of
the profesh to join, instead, the Actors’ Association,
which has been started as a counterblast. The latter
is not an industrial organisation, but it possesses a
place where mummers may “meet socially as in a
club, write their letters and read the papers.”'
Also, the Association hopes to be able to establish
an actors’ benevolent fund and a general theatrical
fund, from which members who pay a certain
weekly sum will be entitled to draw sick pay, and,
perhaps, a pension. Says Tith.: “This is the nearest
approach to an actors’ union possible under the
peculiar conditions attached to the theatrical call-
ing, and the council sincerely hopes that every actor
and actress interested in the welfare of their pro-
fession will recognise the advantages of member-
ship and join its ranks." If this is the best it can
offer, the association has a dashed cheek when it
urges its less bloated brethren to join. These latter
have asked for bread and have been offered a stone. In
place of the substance of a decent wage to-day, they
are offered the shadow of a pension in a more or less
remote future. They desire equitable working con-
ditions, and are promised a club, where (provided,
of course, they should happen to be performing in the
metropolitan area) they may meet and read the
papers.
“0.K.”: The Musicians’ Union of Sydney, which
recently passed a resolution, “that all persons receiv-
ing remuneration for their musical services shall be
invited to join the union,” has logic on its side. All
musical instrumentation is obviously a handicraft.
And what is the average pianist but a mechanic, and
a rotten bad one at that? Even the flautist and
cornetist, producing their musical noises with the
mouth, cannot achieve any melody to speak of, save
by manual labor. In fact, every musician is just as
much a mechanic as any other sprt of 'skilled
worker associated with trades unionism, and!
the haughty person who, talks ironically
of “Trades Hall mandates,” “union label,” etc.,
in connection with “the long haired, dreamy, un-
practical enthusiast, the devout lover of his art and
the scorner of base lucre,” is talking old bosh. As
regards the immemorial yearning for more wages,
there is no difference between one musical toiler and
another. The absurdly hairy star soloist is just as
rapacious, financially speaking,, as the underling who
bangs the triangle in company with other humble
noisemakers. In fact, he is usually considerably
more so.
Marion Dunn, daughter of Marcus Clarke (the
writer, not the draper), is of the third generation on
the Australian stage. Her mother, Marion Dunn, was
a daughter of John Dunn, an English comedian, who
came to Australia in the mid ’so’s of the lost last
century, and toured the country with his daughter
llosa (Mrs. L. L. Lewis). Marion had not then
appeared on the stage. John Dunn died in Melbourne,
and Rosa is now living in Paris, while Mrs. Marcus
Clarke has made her home at Oaldeigh, near Mel-
bourne.
J. S. Butters, the Melbourne identity who
passed out last Sunday (a most unsuitable
day for the passing of J. 5.8.), was not so
exceedingly ancient as rumor had alleged.
Ilis age is given as 83, which makes him
out to have been a mere youth of 38 when
he blazed in splendor as Mayor of Mel-
bourne at the time of the Duke of Edin-
burgh’s visit —45 years ago. All the same,
the prints which illustrated the Butters’ ball
of that period represent him as a man of
anything over 40. Probably Butters was
born middle-aged, hence jthe tradition that he.
had looked as old in J'§ss as he appeared in
the early years of the present century. Of
late, he was a bent and feeble old battler.
Apart from his capacity for knocking around!
town like an evergreen, there was nothing-
very remarkable about Butters. He was
always coupled with £ £ Smith in
Melbourne reminiscences/ and, like Smith, he
was a staunch believer in cold water for
outward application. Until he was well over
the three-score years and ten, Butters took
a cold plunge bath every night before going
to bed —winter and summer. But having
arrived at a bronchial-pneumonia stage in
his downward journey, he was persuaded by
the doctor to confine himself to a cold
shower in the morning.
THE ANGEL IN THE HASH-HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dimpled smile of Elsie Jane
Is exquisitely fair ;
Around her like a golden rain
Ripples her shining hair ;
Her mouth is like the scarlet stain
That young geraniums wear.
I like to linger at her side
When sunset floods the sky,
And all the world is amber-dyed
Beyond the house-roofs high,
While solemn-hanclled knives divide
The stealc-and-kidney pie.
Large slabs of waitress come and go,
Bright soup-spoons rise and fall,
Floods of Calcutta curry flow,
And soft, far voices call
For various viands that I know
Through fissures in the wall.
But Elsie Jane with fingers white
Bears down the laden tray
To where I sit, and all delight
Blossoms amid the grey
Of steaming things that taste all right.
If served the proper way.
Sweet as the murmur of a psalm
In dim cathedrals bleak,
The tender silver of the ham
With rosy lean a-strealc;
O’er formless fronds of frizzled ram
My deathless love I speak.
I mention that the eve is cool,
Or that the day is good,
And sigh like tufts of cotton-wool
Across my simple food,
The while I give her glances full
Of special hardihood.
Oh, not for me the midnight way
With stout and oysters drear,
The crimson lustre of the Cray,
The song of sinful beer ! —
I only want at close’ of day
To come and eat down here.
But when the happy time is ripe,
My hot heart tells me so,
The last bright saucer she shall wipe,
And gladly we will go,
We two, afar from soup and tripe,
To see a picture show!
N.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


WEAR THE CAPTAIN GOLF SHIRT—
For Summer Coolness and Comfort.
David Jones’s well-known “Captain
Shirt is as serviceable for everyday as for
Golf and Sporting wear—made of excellent
quality Zephyr that will wash and wear
lastingly. This Zephyr is of Scotch manu-
facture, specially comfortable for , Summer,
and in the very newest stripe designs, in-
cluding White Grounds with Black, or
Blue Stripes, also in darker grounds of
Heliotrope and Grey with darker stripes.
The “Captain” is made with double detach-
able collar, and double turn-back cuffs; —cut
with wonderful accuracy, and finely finished.
In sizes 14 to 17| inches. .
Of 6 each or 3 for 18/9.
Sent carriage paid to any part of Aus-
tralasia. '
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
6'5
ĥ
I
Rugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid."
Free 'ample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp*
Kugelmarm’s Pure Herbal S«n Soap gM
ta.ned at all Chemists Drapers md-Sto&gep*
throughout Australasia, at -/6' per _ p osta | x o te
tablets. If not obtainable loQa «>}" (jfoclud-
or Stamps of any State, to
jng postage), when box will be posted per
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUCELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
sttorgasrs Mi
SOCIETY
BALD CLOTHES.
SHE: "Don’t you think men's clothes should
match the color of their hair? For in-
stance. a man with black hair should wear
black clothes , a brown-haired man should
wear brown clothes —and so on!"
HE: “ Certainly; but what would you suggest
for a bald-headed man? ”
From the advertisement columns of a re-
cent S. M. Herald
POULTRY, DOGS, ETC.
KIND Person, care healthy baby girl, 4 months old.
Urgent, P. 0., Elizabeth-st. South.
What wonder that Hazael of Syria, in the
bitterness of his soul, asked Elisha if his
servant was a “fair cow”?
Miss Rose Scott, of Sydney, once re-
marked there was no necessity to arm
against Japanese aggression, as the Japs
always treated very kindly those they van-
quished in war. The fate of the last Em-
press of Korea —the lady who was wiped out
by the Japanese embassy, being badly
wounded and then put on a fire before she
was quite dead —rather suggested that Miss
Scott’s views were rose-tinted. And they
were. Just now the whole of the English
press of Eastern Asia is saying things about
the awful methods of the Japanese Govern-
ment in a trial of some bu odd Koreans
charged with conspiracy to murder sundry
Jap officials. Between appearances at court
these unfortunate prisoners were tortured
separately, and to each one it was explained
that his friend had betrayed him. Confes-
sions were ready for these men to sign im-
mediately they got tired of torture, and by
this means convictions carrying the death
penalty were secured against tiie whole of
the accused. Killing, so long as it is done
quickly, is an unpleasant experience, but
bearable. The trouble about the Jap is that
he apparently prefaces it with a lot of pre-
liminary unpleasantness of a nature that
makes surrender quite a mistake —-of so un-
pleasant a nature, in fact, that it is better
to kill one’s wife and children first and then
die fighting. The trouble about people like
Miss Rose Scott is that they have done a lot
to prevent Australia getting into a condition
that would enable it to put up a most stupen-
dous fight before it was necessary to start
shooting the women and children as a crown-
ing mercy.
The Federal Cabinet has had further ideas
on the baby bonus, and has decided that the
amount should be paid in cases of still birth.
Which makes it a Dead Baby Bonus. Still,
it will appeal to that quaint class which
proudly advertises still births in the columns
of the daily paper.
Two historic residential corners of Sydney
will presently be transformed into modern
business premises. One is the south-east
corner of Liverpool and Elizabeth streets,
on which stands a very large house of ancient
date, the residence < " Judge Wylde in the
days when he waved the arm of the law over
N.S.W. In later years the house was occu-
pied by James Wright, who made beer on
the S.E. corner of Bathurst and George
streets. What sort of beer it was this
deponent knoweth not. The N.W. corner
of Liverpool and Elizabeth streets, on which
stand some solid houses, known as Clarendon
Terrace, will also make way for commerce.
In the long ago, on the corner was a square-
built red brick house, a common colonial
type then, which was the property of the
historic Mrs. Reibey. In the mid-forties it
was occupied as a ladies’ school, kept by
Mrs. Cousins. About 40 years ago the late
Dr. Arthur Renwiek purchased the corner
and erected thereon Clarendon Terrace,
which became the haunt of medical men and
tusk-pullers.
“Harrison O.” : R. Kipling’s latest effort
takes the form of an allegory, of a sort per-
petrated in the National Review. A Labor
agitator who has engineered a big coal strike
is pictured in Hell, and
gathered around him are
the victims of the strike
—a woman who was
driven to suicide,
some toothless ancients
who succumbed to the
results of underfeeding,
and infants who died of
starvation. The noisi-
est Jingo of them all
draws a gruesome pic-
ture of the sufferings of
these unfortunates, and
fixes the responsibility
on the agitator. If the
indictment against him
is a just one, Tophet is
probably an eminently
suitable place for Mr.
Sugden, the gentleman
in question. But what
I want to know is this,
and I ask the question
in a steadily rising voice
and end it with a
shriek : “Wliat were the
HARMLESS UTTANTS DOING IN HELL?”
“Y.Z.” : The immigrant isn’t always quite
what he should be. The other day a Mel-
bourne magistrate noted aloud that three
immigrants brought out at the country’s ex-
pense were consumptives, and another an
idiot. Meanwhile, the State is shrill with
the plaint of the housewife who thought she
was getting a competent domestic, and finds
she has acquired a Cockney damsel accus-
tomed to living in one room the size of a
hencoop, who cooks a chop by lighting a fire
on it, and scrubs the floor by throwing a
wet rag at it at infrequent intervals. _ A
specimen from the vicinity of Seven Dials
told a St. Kilda housewife the other day:
“Garn, we never done no scrubbin’ in the
Old Country. ’Twas easier t’ shift.” And,
presumably, she shifted into a house which
had just been abandoned by another non-
A HINT TO BUILDERS.
A new style of doorway to accommodate the new
style of hat.
The haphazard way in which the city of
Sydney has been allowed to grow up, or
tumble together, or fall over its own feet is
strikingly illustrated by the recent discovery
of a coffin in Clarence-street. The spot
where the decayed casket was found has
been shown by C. 11. Bertie to have been a
recognised burial-ground in 1792, but pri-
vate Enterprise, when it gets to work at
town-making, doesn’t worry over little mat-
ters like its grandmother’s grave or its
granduncle’s ashes. It just uses any old
tombstone that conies in its way for a door-
step, and piles its bricks over the place
where the dead are sleeping. It isn’t very
pretty, nor is it exactly sanitary, but when
ground is forced up in value to some pounds
per inch the public hasn’t room to be too
squeamish about such matters. If P.E.
had its own way Hookwood and Waverley
cemeteries would soon become solid masses
of terraced hovels, and even if memorial
tablets did stick up here and there through
the kitchen floor, there would be no redue
tion of rent on that account.
For nearly four months an apathetic mass
of constable has been sitting in a of
the Melbourne Hospital, waiting for Fre-
derick Kyle to make up his mind. On May
10 Frederick put in some smart work on an
attemnt to accomplish “the rash act” with
a razor. Since then he has been lying abed,
fluctuating between life and death, with
the eye of the law upon him. He is still
fluctuating. The eye of the law is never re-
moved, for fear the helpless patient might
fly without his clothes to some country
which has no extradition treaty. Police
surveillance in such circumstances is, it is
explained, a custom of the country. Mean-
while, the undermanned force is having its
usual bad luck with burglars, confidence
men, brutal assault people, murderers, bag-
'snatchers and sundries. All that doesn't
matter. An eye must be kept on Frederick
Kyle, who can’t turn in bed without assist-
ance. And yet if Frederick does recover he
may only get “the rising of the court.” Why
not give him the rising of the cop to <ro on
with? #
The mouse and the mountain happened
again in Adelaide the other day. The
“South Australian Division Superintendent
for the International Correspondence
Schools, Limited” (no less) sued the
E.S. and A. Bank for £490 damages for dis-
honoring his cheque. Paris Nesbit, K.C., on
one side, and Josiah Symon, K.C., on the
other, besides lesser lights; Judge Murray
and a special jury to hold the scales. . So
the mountain of Costs was there right
enough. The mouse of judgment was 18d.
The recent sensa-
tional capture of a
burglar in Melbourne
by Geoffrey Syme was
promptly followed by
the usual feminine
narrative of a similar
exploit. A night or
two later the citizens
just across the river,
in Abbotsford, were
roused by the screams
and uproar of two
flurried females de-
manding that assist-
ance be immediately
forthcoming to cap-
ture _an armed bed-
room bushranger or
backyard brigand who
was nowhere visible.
W hen the police
reached the scene
rhey recognised one of the
ladies as Myra Adams, who was
recently discovered sitting, un-
conscious, in a motor, about 1
a.m., with an entire stranger,
and who told a tale of having
been asleep all day at St. Kilda
and having reached her then
position by a series of surpris-
ing exploits. Miss Adams told
how she and her mother had
been awakened by a condot-
tiere, who wore a brown-paper
mask and carried an electric
torch, a revolver and a gin
bottle filled with kerosene. The
obvious redundance of detail
blew a large hole of suspicion
in the tale, but the Johns al-
lowed the damsel to continue
while she narrated how the
burglar, having ransacked the
room to little purpose, had gone
to her father’s sleeping apart-
ment, and, without waking him,
had removed certain jewellery
from the pockets of his clothes,
hanging over the bed. He was,
she assured them, a tall man
with a fair complexion, and
wore a white felt hat and dark
clothes. The ’tecs listened ab-
stractedly, and, when she had
finished, one of them curtly asked
the half-baked storyteller to say just where
she had put the jewellery. She fenced for a
while, then said she had bestowed it in the
piano. That utensil, having been dismantled
without success, the pleasing child said she
must have put it behind the overmantel —
where it was found. She and her mother
ultimately excused themselves for their lapse
into fiction by blaming an overdose of cray-
fish for supper, but as this is the girls
second excursion into fictional narrative, this
writer would recommend her to drop cray-
fish, and try something large and meaty—
say, a whale or a couple of sharks. Thes«
crayfishy tales get wearisome.
THE EXCUSE AVAILETH NOT .
SHE OF THE VELL: "And are you going to
Lady Slipenfall's ball, dear?”
SHE OF N ONE: "No, darling, I shall be out
of town, you know."
SHE OF THE VELL: "How peculiar! She
didn't invite me either."
THE FIRST BEDROOM LIFE SCOUTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is tolerably safe to assume that the great mass
of the churchgoers and the great mass of the clergy
have little sympathy with the mediaeval action taken
by the Melbourne Council of Churches in regard to
the proposed baby bonus....lt is a sad commentary
on latter-day Christianity to find that any responsible
persons should shamelessly form themselves into a
vigilance committee for the purpose of hounding
down unfortunate girls who have violated the con-
ventions, and denying them, in their hour oi direst
need, the means of modifying the bitterness of tlieir
lot The world has been' congratulating itself that
the days of “The Scarlet Letter” were over
—Sydney Sun, 21/8/ 12.
Poor Mary’s none and earned the bonus.
Try an’ keep th’ news from gettin’ out.
Or the first thing that we’ll know,
We’ll be told to pack and go.
(‘Ave you looked inside the dustbox for a blighted
Bedroom Scout f)
There’s a sly and dirty legion of devoted holy gents ;
It has got no arms or colors, and you never see its
tents;
Yet it’s always on the warpath in a very private
way.
And it wins a little battle nearly every other day.
There are risks in all campaigning—there are men
with hobnailed feet,
And a gallant Scout at intervals is kicked into the
street;
But the heroes still keep at it, though the boots
are very hard, .
And the King hands out no medals to the Christian
Keyhole Guard.
If they haven’t mumbled o’er her —if she’s yielded
them no fee,
They will send the Cradle Sappers and the Blanket
Infantry;
And they’ll war with hints and whispers, in the
name of Him Who D'ed
For the sake of saint and sinner, with a thief on
either side.
Praise the rattlesnake and adder, give the honest
skunk a cheer,
Tell the toad that he is welcome, at the dingo never
sneer;
On the crawling things and wretched in a humble
spirit call,
For we’ve found a human Something that is meaner
than them all!
Jane went and got her kid “adovted.”
What become of it, well, goodness knows!
But take care now what you shout,
’Cause ; yer don’t know who’s about. ,
There might be a Bedroom Linesman in that pile 0’
dirty clothes !
N.S.W.
NUISANCE INSPECTOR.


Speedy and
thorough
cleansing
Mrs. M. Crawford. ’ of Leichhardt\
Sydney , writes
“ I find it pays me to use
‘ Sunlight ’ because of the
speed and thoroughness with
which it does its work. It
gives a fresh and new appear-
ance to prints and cashmeres,
which no other Soap I have
ever tried can do.”
GOOD
SUnlichT
LAUNDRY SOAP
Munyadf
Janos
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler
on arising, before breakfast, fori
CONSTIPATION
Wilds Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Svdney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best'of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
ħ
“AERO,” the Comfortable
Summer Underwear!
“Aero” is a knitted material, of open or cell weave—
as per illustration —the fibre being All Wool and guar-
anteed Unshrinkable.
Every garment is true to size, while fit, careful workman-
ship and good wear are assured by these finely-finished,
cool-wearing garments.
The Pants are cut to knee length, thus securing a full
degree of cool summer comfort.
“Aero” Undershirts, half sleeves, Sizes 34 to 44,
6/6 each.
“Aero” knee-length Drawers, loose fitting, Sizes 32
to 44 6/6 each.
Please state chest and waist measurements when order-
ing.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
Peapes Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309=11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The vegetarian is apt to run to hair, spec-
tacles, ’isms and soul-storms; but no one has
yet decided whether he is afflicted that way
because he lives without meat, or if
he does without meat because he
was going to be a crank, anyhow.
At any rate, he has the best of the argument
in Sydney, which was credited last week by
the experienced president of the Retail
Master Butchers’ Association with having
the most obsolete slaughtering methods
among the big white man’s cities of the
world. The same authority also alleged
that 33 per cent, of the meat sold in the
shops of Sydney is not fit for human con-
sumption, and that some of it is not fit for
dog consumption. The only possible consola-
tion for a dismayed capital is to earnestly
hope that the man of meat meant pure-bred
dogs of the most valuable sort —animals that
no person Would insult with inferior meat.
But the probabilities are that he was think-
ing of the gafint, dust-box raider who
travels most of his time as the advance agent
of a brickbat.
Sometimes the compositor builds better
than he knew, and the following (from the
Trundle Times) may or may not be a case
in point:—
WEDDING BELLS.
SMYTH V. PARNELL.
* * * *
Judging by a. case that was heard at
Brunswick (Vic.) Court lately, Premier
Watt might as well save a few pounds by
discharging his Police Magistrates and let-
ting the precious honorarium do as he
thinks best. In this matter, a milk dealer
was convicted for the fifth and sixth times
of watering his milk—thereby endangering
the health and lives of many infants, besides
robbing their parents—and the prosecuting
inspector asked for imprisonment without
the option, also that the conviction be pub-
lished. Seeing that the previous fines had
apparently only encouraged the milkman to
go “one better,” and that imprisonment would
certainly deter ■ him as long as he was in
prison, one would have expected the requests
to be granted without demur; but the four
honorariums on the Bench, having the usual
bourgeois views on commercial morality,
over-ruled the P.M., refused the order to
publish the conviction, and allowed the
delinquent to purge himself of his contempt
of the human stomach by paying £35 in
fines. What is the use of P.M.’s in courts
so constituted?
AT THE CHARITY CONCERT.
“ That lady has a wohderful control of her
voice.”
“Yes, sir. She's my wife , and she can do any
thing with her voice—except stop it."
Volunteer Colonel Onslow, M.L.A., cut
loose in a Waverler (N.S.W.) Bethel the
other night, as follows: —
lie believed firmly in the voluntary system in
military service. Both Lord Roberts and Lord
Kitchener, who were advocates of the compulsory
system, made their way in command of black troops,
against whom he had not a word to say. A good
soldier might have his mind tinctured with ideas that
are not altogether suitable to the race from which
they sprang.
It was a kind thought on Onslow’s part to
act as apologist for his poor, misguided
fellow-warriors, Roberts and Kitchener; but
the good deed was superfluous. Neither
Roberts nor Kitchener ever commanded
“black troops” till they had become Generals.
Roberts’s first command was a European
field-battery—the Ivuram Field Force. He
remained with it till he got on the staff, and
from then till he became a General he never
commanded anything. Kitchener first joined
a company of sappers employed about the
barracks and fortifications on the Lower
Thames, and stayed there for eight years ;
then the company was sent to Cyprus. Dur-
ing the four years he stayed there Kitchener
learned Arabic, and, on the strength of that
accomplishment, got a staff-billet in Egypt.
But he commanded no blacks till his name
was made. In the nature of things, since
Britain has been almost exclusively fighting
niggers—and for the most part doing it with
other niggers—for the past half-century,
Kitchener, like Roberts, has had a good deal
of experience of “black troops.” But that is
not to say that he is disqualified from judging
as to the merits or otherwise of white sol-
diers, voluntary and compulsory. He, like
Roberts, had ample experience of the Cau-
casian volunteer fighter in S’Africa. Also,
like Roberts, he has had priceless opportuni-
ties to compare the volunteer of his own race
with the compulsory person of Germany and
France. If he and Roberts decide that the
British volunteer is dangerously ineffective,
by comparison with the soldier of Continental
Europe, the pertinent question arises:..Who
is Onslow, that he should speak in pitying
tolerance of them?
* * * *
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Snow fell in Sydney on Thursday last. Previous
records show that on June 28, 1836, there was a
heavy fall in Sydney. It lasted half an hour, and
the oldest local Methuselah couldn’t remember an-
other. It lay about for a couple of hours, and Syd-
ney boys, for the first time in their lives, made
snowballs. In July, 1836, June, ’37, and September,
’37, snow also fell. On August 10, 1872, there was
a heavy snowstorm within 30 miles of Sydney. May
it never happen again.
A committee of the Uaori-
land House of Representa-
tives is proceeding, under
easy steam, to hear a peti-
tion from Captain Attwood,
one-time master of the
wrecked Elingamite, for
compensation for the loss of
his certificate after his ves-
sel tried to push the Three
Kings off the face of the
ocean, and sunk itself and a
heap of lives in the attempt.
That was a good many years
ago, and the skipper was
called many hard names and
told that he could go and
shovel coke, but that a life
on the rolling wave was not
for him, at least not as a
master. Then, only a few
months ago, it was discovered
that the chart, which was
official and supposedly of
ix-reproachable character, was
a liar, and that it not only
placed the Three Kings
where there wasn’t any King
at all, but it gave the posi-
tion they really occupied as
good, safe, deep water.
This was pleasant
hearing for the cap-
tain, but at the same
time it must be ad-
mitted that the honor-
able acquittal served
out to him at this late
date doesn’t make up
for the long years he
had to stand down
from his job. Of
course, the Maoriland
I authorities may say
that they didn’t make
the fraudulent chart,
but in the first place
they might have made an effort to
test its accuracy before accepting it as gospel,
and, in the second place, they might have
been expected to have some personal know-
ledge of the location of the boulder that stood
at their own front gate.
JUST WHAT HE WANTED.
“I can give you a sister's love.”
“ That's all I ask—the love of another follow’s
sister. ”
“Dungaree,” from the bridge:—
Our N.S.W. Navigation Department enters upon its
apparently final inspection of lighthouses this week.
(The loud cheering you hear in the distance is sup-
plied by the delighted local shellbacks.) Com-
mander Brewis, who has been pointing out the in-
numerable defects of the coastal lighting, accompanies
the party; consequently, we are hoping that this
time they will make an inspection of lights, not
lighthouses. Day-time inspections discover nothing
but beautifully polished lenses. I would ask the
officials to approach during the night that remark-
able illumination known as Wollongong Light. It
is a bright (?) fixed institution, with a red sector
showing over Bellambi Reef, and it is placed at the
end of the breakwater, level with a multitude of sur-
rounding bright lights. Its brightness or otherwise de-
pends, of course, upon the pressure of local mains, at
no time sufficiently, powerful to make the show dis-
tinguishable from the town lights. The fact is well
known to all Sydney shipmasters; and as one who
averages about three trips per week, I must say
that I have never been able to tell which of many
lamps is the one to keep me clear of danger. All
we mariners ask for is that our leading lanterns
shall have a character; by which we mean that when
seen they cannot possibly be mistaken for anything
else in the vicinity. Night cruising, of course, is
not as pleasant as sauntering down the coast in sun-
shine, but I think a little of it would prove in-
structive. At any rate, I would like the party to
stand off Wollqngong, after dark, and give one an-
other three guesses.
These are joyous times in the Sydney
tramcar industry, and bursts of humor are
mingled with objurgations. Sydney having
no city railway of any kind —ground level,
dead level, aerial, elevated, top-storey, sub-
terranean or otherwise —depends almost
wholly on trams. It being impossible to get
sufficient tramcars into the available space
to hold all passengers in an orderly fashion,
neople began to stand inside. Then they
stood on the footboards, first in one row
and then in two, and next they tried to
stand in three rows. About this time, con-
ductors began to fall off and get killed while
trying to collect fares, or to get the sack for
failing to collect fares. So they shut down
on the footboard riders, or tried to, but as
one conductor can’t fight 37 outside pas-
sengers, the only resource was the good old
strike. One evening recently about half a
mile of tramcars were held up because there
was on the first vehicle one obstinate foot-
board rider. He wouldn’t get off; it wasn’t
legal to kill him ; and the conductor declined
to move till he left. It was all so wildly
amusing that dozens of passengers almost
foamed at the mouth for pure joy. Things
of that sort add to the mirth of the com-
munity, but they make the community very
late for dinner.
The last handkerchief has
flapped, and the last parting
tear has splashed from the
promenade deck of the Orient
liner Opliir in Australian wat-
ers. It is to be over-hauled on
its arrival in London, and will
afterwards blossom forth in the
ads. as a “steam yacht,” and
will carry middle-class sons and
suburbanite daughters on Nor-
way trips to view the Midnight
Sun. It is 20 years since the
Ophir was launched. There
was just as much fuss made
then over its luxurious fittings,
magnificent appointments, huge
tonnage, and all the rest as are
splashed on the Olympics and
Titanics of to-day, and the dic-
tionary was dredged to its
depths to find high-falutin’ ad-
jectives to describe the “float-
ing palace,” “fair-sized towft-
sliip,” etc. Of course, the
Ophir’s high-water mark of
fame was touched when it was
selected as the royal yacht to
cart the Yorks and their retinue
around the world. Its first run
proved it a regular acrobat to
roll, and a prize coal-eater.
Various dodges remedied the
over-abundant rolling gait, but
a fuel glutton the Ophir re-
mained up to the last. It may
surprise people to know that
the apparently sluggish craft
was a first-class speedist if
pushed, and could run off 18
knots with the best of them.
But it was seldom asked to do
it, for at top speed it could
eat two coal-mines before break-
fast. The Norwegian trips will
suit the Ophir nicely, as it can
saunter along at a comfortable
and economical speed to give
the snap-shottists time to get
their focusses right. And the
royal memories" that linger
round its name will prove a
sure draw for the nobility of
Notting ’lll and the aristocrats
of ’Amnstead, Tghgate and
’Ammersmith.
It’s a wise lawyer that knows the right
hair to split. Last week, a N.S.W. country
policeman, who was proceeding against a
local publican for trading a few minutes
after hours, was beaten on the technical
point that his time wasn’t standard time, he
having obtained it from a railway porter,
who, of course, had nothing more reliable
than railway time to give away. If this
decision holds good, how is Constable Sleeper
to get on in future? One Horse Vale
has never had standard time, and doesn’t
know how to get it, and wouldn’t know
what to do with it if it got it. Anyhow,
what is the beast?
TUMMINESS.
Time’s nasty joke. The dread of every
beauty actor.
One of Nature’s dukes was last week
awarded six months retirement, at the Cen-
tral Police Court, Sydney. Poor gentleman,
he had stolen a rug from a sick horse. The
robbed animal coughed for help, and the dis-
gusted Law walked its despoiler slowly to
earth. . This is the sort of curiously miser-
able crime that brings the blush of shame to
the honest burglar’s nose.
SNOW IN SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Snow in Melbourne! Snow on the South Coast! !
Snow in Sydney! ! !- —Daily paper headlines.
Spring looked in !
The morning sparrows cried her
And even I espied her
(At least I saw some fragments of the robe she wore
On the peach-tree blowing by the kitchen door).
\ \ \\ Spring looked in !
While Winter winds are blowing
And everywhere it’s snowing,
My heart is warmly hopeful, for her gown she tore
On the bare peach branches by the kitchen door.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


An attempt was made on Saturday to
obtain an expression of opinion from
the Prime Minister regarding the pro-
posal of General Bramwell Booth to de»
velop a scheme to help poor widows
with families, by sending them to Aus-
tralia.
StWed ajl clues'
witft its.
concert life <QoSS
indolence day
. HonFaf:—- .
Up *
7 W&*s£gT itjrOTu^
r w fully sl«K«a wiflT
it- souVe apy "A «'< lov 'sl
VJ i4f,ewT^enc«^' , a«CG< > you
ni
homt Bttft« e9ted th ?ldiM n aPP lj "
U ha hoatT»>e^ that " hen
cards f^ me9ti cs, and that
arrive t*£ strict accordanc
S the Station thusd*ed.
IH6, Qae^e
(Wv* * * k^les ,
one a v t"a l +irr)e. HaJf S\
tviinM+Q' *HoW«.4 'foir'
/*\\nA "the-
** • SS M S W
t ou't'
[f&y 'fam Will J <
be de*,<A!
A P"^
>AA
l GEi»f
View'
- Ki^O>W'«y
In 1900, when the revenue front
customs and excise amounted to 475.
per head of population, Mr. Fisher
affirmed that no well-governed coun-
try should be taxed more heavily.
Yet now, when the revenue from that
source has risen to no less than 04s.
6d. per head—two-thirds of which,
Mr. Deakin affirms, comes from
revenue duties—no proposal is made
to reduce those duties.
A^s : - i M>d icVe. QuiteT'c^c^d
Cily (ouwcillor AN
Well Down wittf
Dws'E * l^ut* fyowa^bout
ifje Cosf^ Wood bvemewls
So ✓forth ? f> j
Facetious Exactly,
frbvide -ft je. — Down
witfi ife. d«sH"
MOSTLY FEDERAL


NABOB BOOT PASTE.,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS <& WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. tl
RINGS.
Ladies’ Rings.
Engagement Rings.
Dress Rings.
Very Choice Dia-
mond, set in Plat-
inum Setting, and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£3O.
9 Selected Diamond
Cluster and 18ct. Gold
Ring, £lO/10/-
Special Value.
Every kind of Gem Ring we make on the premises.
We buy the Gems unset, in quantities, and at the lowest prices.
We thus are able to supply our customers at the lowest bed-rock prices.
Write for sheets of illustrations and prices.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET!
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
SNOWING A SAMPLE.
LONGMAN: "Just been to afternoon-tea at the
Noovo-Reech,'s. We had gold teaspoons”
SHORTER: “Let's look!"
q “Tangita Kino” : Onehunga, the little
wall-eyed, one-horse port to the west of Auckland
(M.L.), has a wrangle on about the establishment
of a zoological garden in its back yard. Some
people object to the presence of wild beasts under
their clothes-lines, and are . petitioning against the
iniquity of having their domestic poultry compelled
to associate with lions and tigers. Others are
eagerly asking the large and dangerous fauna of
nigger-infested lands to stay with them, and eat up
the marauding cow which roams in the streets and
devours the baby’s pinafore and the pink geraniums.
The tendency to herd strange wild beasts in the
vicinity of cities is growing in Maoriland. Where
you have any number of district capitals it is in-
evitable that each must,, in time, have its museum,
art gallery, zoo and botanical garden. The latter
is a simple affair, for even the humble cauliblossom
has its botanical interest, but the congregation of
wild carnivora is another matter. When the Shaky
Islands reach their final financial smash, and Cohen
puts in the bailiff, there may be enough lions and
tigers for sale to populate a- fair-sized tropical
jungle.
The careless farmer of the future will be
a man with one hand and half an ear. The use of
explosives for shattering subsoil and removing
stumps is now being demonstrated by various people
interested in the business, and the amount of mud
and wood hurled cheaply into the air at each report
is simply astonishing. The new system is going to
make farming a highly spectacular business, judging
by the results achieved at some of the demonstra-
tions—conducted, presumably, by people familiar
with the use of explosives. Huge stumps leap
bodily into the air, burst into pieces and spray their
fragments recklessly round the landscape. When the
casual, inexperienced farmer goes out to work with
an electric battery and a pocketful of sudden death,
a lot of the old dulness and safety will be blown
out of agriculture. Occasionally a farmer will be
blown out as well, but it will be in the noble cause
of progress. One advantage about the new idea is
that the cheap labor crowd will be able to barrack
for the cracking up of the Northern Territory by
bomb-throwing Italians and others. The day of the
agricultural anarchist is here.
* * * *
“Wal” : Quite the cutest way of fishing is
that of the Papuan who lives amongst the D’Entre-
casteaux Islands, to the east of Papua. The native
uses a kite to provide him with his dinner. The
fishing line is fastened to the tail of the kite, which
is connected with the fisherman in the usual way.
Brown brother seats himself comfortably in his
canoe and lets the kite go, its height being regulated
by the control cord, held by said B. brother, and
the wind does the rest. As the kite rises and dips,
the line, to which a native-made hook is attached,
trails along the surface, and, should a hungry “king”
or “salmon” be prowling around, he soon sees the
bait, with fatal effect to himself —and a feeling of
fulness and satisfaction to the man on the other
end of the line. The bait is a curiosity, being
simply a mass of spider’s web, but it has more to
do with the catching of the fish than the hook, for if
a fish once bites it he cannot let go, owing to his teeth
becoming entangled in the threads. The kite also
serves to tow the fisherman about in the canoe, so
he has little to do except smoke. The outfit is very
easily made. A few leaves serve for the kite, and
some native-made line and a sharpened fork of wood
for the fishing line and hook, whilst the bait can be
found under any house.
* * * *
“Wal” : I was storekeeping on one of the
Papuan goldfields once, and, during my term as
guide, philosopher and friend to the miners I came
across some peculiar characters. Quite the hardest
case was an old German, Paul by name. One day,
when recovering from a more than usually purple
burst, he came to me in a penitent spirit, and asked
me to send away a fiver for some “drink cure” that
he had seen advertised in one of the Australian
papers. “Id oudt to do no harm if id no good me
shall do,” he said, “and if id cure me, den I in
your store no money more shall vaste on de blanky
trink.” After which kind
remark he got a bottle of
whisky, and was convoyed
to his claim by a couple
of his “boys.” I did not
see him for nearly a
month, when he came in
to ask if the “cure” had
come. He had a modest
one-night jag this time,
and then went off to his
claim. In due course the
mail brought a lot of pac-
kets of “drink cure” for
the old fellow, and I sent
them out to him with his
papers and a bottle Of
whisky. The. result was
extraordinary. A stream
of messengers kept coming
to the store with dirty
bits of paper, asking for
more grog; and I had
sent out quite a case of
whisky before I heard
what was going on. A
fellow came in and re-
marked that there was a
h—l of a jamboree going
on out at old Paul’s; guns
going off as if they were
having a Guy Fawkes Day
celebration, and all the
blokes as full of whisky
as a dog is of ticks. It
was the end of the month,
and I had to make my
usual round collecting the
accounts. I struck Paul’s
camp at dusk, being wel-
comed with a wealth of
joyous profanity and
invitations to take an
“oil.” The “drink cure”
was in great request by
the crowd. As old Paul
put it : “Stick a drob in
your bannikin and add a good nib o’ whisky, and
y’ get a vine donic—de best in de world.” And be-
fore I left I had an order for another fiver’s worth.
My opinion of “drink cures” after this experience
is nil.
“Jamboree”: Mrs. Murphy pQssessed a
tongue like a fret saw and an audience of one which
never smiled. It was her husband. None of us knew
that Murphy had a twin brother until he drifted
along from nowhere in particular and attached
himself to the household. He was not so worried
looking as Murphy; but as the idle days limped by
he developed the same harassed expression as his
host. I believe that I was the only one in the town-
ship who could distinguish Murphy from his brother.
The brother hadn’t quite the same life sentence look;
but you had to look hard before you could detect'
the difference. I soon noticed that the brothers were
taking it in turns to get drunk. Murphy was on a
good wicket, for his wife was short-sighted and her
glasses were usually blurred with her heavy breath-
ing—she always breathed hard while she raged at
her lawful lord and master. There were great pos-
sibilities in the situation, and I used to drop in
every day just to keep in touch and not miss any
developments. Nothing happened for a few months;
then, one night, Murphy got drunker than usual
and had to be delivered in a limp condition by cart.
I saw Mrs. Murphy in the main street next day, and
she told me that she had kicked her husband’s
brother out, as she couldn’t stand his drunken habits
any longer; besides there was a danger of him dis-
organising Murphy. I was passing the Murphy estate
a few days later and noticed the boss digging in the
garden. “Good day,” I shouted. The man with the
spade raised a haggard face. “Oh thunder!” I groan-
ed, and hurried away. Mrs. Murphy had thrown out
her husband !
* * * *
“Territorian” writes: The Yankee land
seekers, now exploring the Northern Territory, declare
that they are delighted with the country, which they
enthusiastically term, “Another God’s Own.” They
are surprised and fascinated by what they have seen
on the Victoria River. Small wonder. It is delight-
ful, and its atmosphere of infinite space is glorious.
The Victoria Downs have an area of 90,000 square
miles,, about 35,000 of which are most excellent
pasture land, divided into six cattle stations, with an
area of anything from 3000 to 12,000 square miles.
These are held on leasehold tenure, with 18 years yet
to run. The largest of them could muster 100,000
cattle, and the writer has seen 25,000 calves branded
in the season. The average carrying capacity is
safely 15 head of cattle to the square mile. In
Arnheim’s Land and round the Cambridge Gulf the
rainfall averages over 60 inches per annum. But on the
Victoria Downs the records read: Wave Hill station,
19in. ; AHctoria Downs, 22in.; Deldmere Downs,
30in. ; Bradshaw’s, 40in. The wet season sets in
during December, and continues till the end of
March, leaving the remainder of the year dry to all
practical purposes. With such a rainfall it is doubt-
ful if agricultural pursuits, as at present under-
stood, could be successfully carried on, but there is
no earthly doubt but that sheep- and Angora goat-
raising .would be a thriving industry, conjointly with
that of cattle and horses. Truly, sheep have been
tried and proved a failure. But that was owing to
the presence Of wild dogs. Closer settlement would
eliminate the dingo. The saddest part of the story
is that in this section of the Territory, 90,000 square
miles in extent, there are under 100 white men. A
station of 10,000 square miles, under existing con-
ditions, employs about seven whites and 50 or so
blacks. No wonder the Yankees are charmed and
surprised. The lure of this place is infinite and
eternal, and once a Territorian always one. What
surprised the cute Yankees probably was the fact that
such a splendid land of beautiful pastures should be
left to the mercy of a handful of monopolists in re-
turn for Is. per square mile rental. It would aston-
ish Satan himself, and he isn’t easily staggered. If
he were he would have long since given up his job.
* * * *
“Wal”: The discovery on the Lakekamu
goldfield of a stone mortar and pestle may be of
interest to students of the origin of the Papuan race.
The place where the relics were found is sparsely in-
habited, the only native population being people
known as “Kukukuku,” and they only visit the place
on their hunting trips. Who or what the people
were who used pestles and mortars will take a deal
of investigation, for they evidently do not inhabit
the country now. None of the known natives employ
these things. The nearest I have seen is the wooden
device that the coastal man uses to crush his betel
nut when his teeth have worn out. I should think the
pestle-and-mortar folk must have been of strong
physique. A man would want some Tiffing power to
handle a pestle like the Lakekamu one, as it weighs
over 201 b. The man that found it dug it up from
under 9ft. of wash, in a terrace claim some 100 ft.
above the present creek level. Perhaps some geolo-
gist can estimate the age of these relics of a forgotten
people.
“Montalex” : Some more about the sting-
aree (“Reka,” B. 15/8/T2). There’s a big family
of him ( Trygonidce ). About the Mediterranean
they eat him. Don’t know what particular species
that is, but have made unpleasant personal acquaint-
ance with the only kind that is found as far north as
the U.K. Trod on the beast in about three feet of
water and got nailed in the calf of the leg. Suffered
Sheol until I got morphia injected into the wound,:
but that didn’t cure the poisoning, which persisted
until the doctor began to drop hints about gangrene.
After about six months, however, the wound healed
up quite suddenly. The local fishermen said this,
was because the stingaree that stabbed me had got
killed. All this from a spine only two inches long,
so I can quite credit the stories of deaths caused by
the big tropical fellows. The torpedoes—the electric-
shockers—are cousins of the stingarees, and are
AT ONE FELL SWOOP.
MICKO : “What's the matter, Stonk? ”
S TONK: “ That parson bloke gimme a pat on
the ’ ead."
MICKO : “Well, what yer 'owlin fer?"
STONK: “We been out bird nestin', and I was
carry in the eggs in me 'at."
mostly—and fortunately—of moderate bulk. i
have, however, seen a specimen of T. giganteus that
topped 1001 b. His voltage must have been lethal',
but I carefully didn’t touch him until after he had
given up the ghost.
DOWN THE LACHLAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bearing bravely down the Lachlan, homeward bound
the wool-teams go,
Cargo ships of station traffic, beating out unto the
west;
Toiling to alluring havens set amid the sunset’s
glow;
Swaying in the mocking mirage dancing on the
sand-hill’s crest;
Steering out to lonely homesteads, nestling on a
grey-grassed shore,
Fetching to the waiting bush-folk, o’er the silent
troubled ways,
Freight more precious than the wealth the flying
Spanish galleons bore
From a sacked and shattered city in the far-off
fabled days.
Flying gaily down the Lachlan, westward bound the
drovers fare,
Hobble-chains and tinkling horse-bells sounding
music through the trees ;
They, the lightly-burdened clippers, scudding to the
regions where
Flock on flock of gold-fleeced wethers gild wide,
waving, verdant seas.
Hear their chanteys, lilting quaintly, when above the
grey plain’s rim,
Through the river-box and mallee blink and flash
the station lights;
Hear the swagman gladly hail them, when the
evening sun is dim:
“Any news from up the river?”—then' they yarn
away the nights.
Drifting sadly down the Lachlan, lurch the human
wrecks we know,
Derelicts of proud ambition, shattered hulls of high
desire,
Caught in casual currents, swirling to the unknown
depths below,
Flotsam of the social whirlpools, rotting by the
river’s mire.
River timbers hide their camp-fires, river voices
soothe their pain;
But the mirage, dancing, glinting, takes them to
some far-off scene,
Back where hope and love were luring, like the
mirage on the plain,
But to end in bitter memories of some things that
might have been.
N.S.W.
GORDON BENNETT.
BROWN PERRIGOT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BROWN Perrigot, that nice old man,
At work ’mid his cabbage rows,
Whistles a tune, and, out of a pan,
Spills salt each way as he goes—
Then stops, and cocks one eye at the sky,
While he feels with his paws for rain:
“Nor’, Nor’ East,” he says, with a sigh,
“An’ blowin’ great guns again.”
The wind pipes shrill, like a death-struck
P*S,
And the clothes on the next-door line
Dance an indelicate, legless jig,
Which the old boy thinks “just fine.”
Then the clouds spit fast the sharp, cold
hail,
And Perrigot turns to flee
Into the apple-house out of the gale
As fast as his legs can gee.
And there, on a bucket against the ground,
He sits, still holding his pan,
With pullets and cockerels hemming him
round,
A shivering, silly old man,
With small, red eyes and still’, blunt
bones —
There be few who ever would guess
That once on a time he was Blood scupper
Jones,
Of the pirate ship Black Bess!
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


SUFFERED THREE YEARS.
“For three long years I Suffered continually from
relaxed throat and cold on ■' the chest,” writes Mr.
J. R. Craig, Jnr., 467 Nicholson Street, North
Carlton, Vic. “I could not shake this cold off. I
tried everything without getting any relief. A
friend recommended Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
and I am very thankful that he did-, for I cannot
speak too highly of it. It gave me immediate re-
lief and quickly cured me.”*
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
Weak and delicate children are given a new lease
of life .by using Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract.
Delicious tasting, easily taken, flesh-producing and
strength-promoting.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
A mere man, in 1882, wrote in the Church
Standard, “I saw a young lady riding a tricycle at
the Holborn Viaduct. It did not look well and I
hope the practice will not grow into one of the
female fashions of the day.” He was evidently
shocked, but since then many changes have occurred
in the recreations of women and in the construction
of cycles. Others will follow. The world will not,
cannot, stand still. Phillips Ormonde & Co., 266
Flinders St., Melbourne.*
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark ; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
V -5
Veal and Tongue
Pate
Is made for those who want
something with which to make
good 11 meaty " sandwiches. It
Is quite as tasty as the famous
Ham Pate, though It costs a
little less.
Ask your grocer for a tin or
two. Each tin holds a quarter
of a pound.
FOCCITT. JONES & CO. LTD.
Frank Bellman tells about a short cut: —
Flapping at the mosquitoes with his empty tucker-
bag, Scotty sat on tile table and told me wiiat he
was go.ng to do to lied Sam, when he met him on
the track. By exercising rigorous self-denial, Scotty
had brought a bottle of whisky from the township
to Sam, the men's cook at Wilga; expecting, in re-
turn, three or four days spell in the travellers’ hut and
the chance of getting Sam’s billet if the alleged
“Glenira” should start him on his bi-annual spree.
Unfortunately, Sam had been temporarily converted
by a bush missionary, and when Scotty handed him
the bottle he broke its neck, emptied the contents
into the pigs’ tub and slammed the door in the face
of the amazed donor.
Scotty inspected our small stock of food. ‘We 11
hae’ to gae to Nerong the nicht —na mair na sax
miles by cuttin’ off the bends o’ the river, an’ its
na that dark.”
I was tired, and protested: “Can’t we wait till
morning?”
Scotty sniffed compassionately: “Of a’ the ignor-
antest new-chums! Will Ina hae to lug the cook
afore the men’s aboot?”
As we were rolling up, the little Irishman in
the corner angrily slapped the iron wall: “Are youse
blokes iver goin’ to slape?”
(Here is an interval of three hours.)
Climbing over logs, splashing through shallow
lagoons and struggling with acres of wild rasp-
berry, we had travelled miles and miles. I was dog-
tired, and often wanted to throw myself down and
sleep, but as often Scotty would repeat a varying
yarn about the skeleton of a presumptive new-chum
that had been found on the river flats.
As Scotty was vigorously denying, for about the
tenth time, that he was bushed, some iron buildings
loomed ahead, and he pointed to them with a
triumphant grin. “Them’s Nerong.”
“Don’t they look like the huts at Wilga?” I
asked diffidently.
Scotty would not answer till we reached the
nearest door, then he growled: “Ane shearers’ hut.
is like anither.”
As we entered I struck a match, and a little
Irishman inquired plaintively, “Are youse blokes
iver goin’ to slape?”
TOTALLY BANKRUPT.
MISS WOWSER: "And if the Lord came to you
now, brother, how would he find you?”
B ILL (who has been losing): “Damn to ell
broke , missus!"
“Tamnmu”: The blue paint recipe of
“Veritas”’ (B. 4/7/’l2), for making a ratless solitude,
is new to me. But I can tell him of a method
much favored in Maori iand bush camps. The
method is simplicity' itself. (1) Catch your rat.
(2) (jive him a bath in kerosene. (3) Apply a match
to him and let him go. His relations and friends
in the vicinity, on catching sight of this flaming
fantod, adjourn in haste and run hard for three
weeks in all directions. Daresay the method would
hardly recommend itself to the S.P.C.A., yet it used
to be employed by the Church in the case of heretics.
When a flaming heretic ran at full speed through a
congregation, I bet there was a dispersal.
“Hayland” : The wild pigs at the hack of
North Canterbury (M.L.) are fair cows. Was muster-
ing there recently, and saw across a deep-cut gully!
a porker emerge from the bush and make for a;
young lamb. The woolly infant started for home and
mother, but the hog ran down "his prey in short
order, killed it, and proceeded to have lunch. When
I left he was reaching for a toothpick and the liqueur
bottle.
SEASONABLE
SURVEILLANCE.
PARSON (to orchardist’s
son, who has offered
to pilot him to the gate):
“I think I will be able to
find my way. Eve been there before
B OY: "Yes, but the fruit weren't ripe then.”
“McNorth”: I had just arrived in the
Yodda Valley, Papua. It was. in the days of the
rush after the nimble pennyweight in those regions,
and camping ground was scarce, owing to
the lack of flat surface. Green food was only
less difficult to obtain than the yellow
metal itself. After a lot of looking round,
I pitched on a spot close to another
man’s camp. There was a mound be-
tween the two tents, and, when I inter-
viewed the other chap about its meaning
and purpose, he explained that his mate
had died the previous week, and that he
had buried him in the only place where
it was possible to sink a hole. I didn’t
like it. If I could have found another
camping ground I would have shifted in
a hurry. But there was no other flat
surface to be got for miles around, and I
was compelled to take my nightly rest by
the side of a new-made grave. One day,
coming home from the claim a little
earlier than usual, I saw something which,
even in that mild climate, caused the
temperature of my blood to drop several
degrees. My neighbor was exhuming his
dead mate. Shovelful by shovelful he
shifted the mullock, and at last brought
to light—no, it was not a corpse, but a
full bag of good potatoes and onions. The
alleged grave was his safe deposit for fresh food.
• * * *
“Mary McC.”: Fierce as the statement
may appear, there are some countries from which
Australia has something to learn. Cow fills a big
place in our national landscape, and butter-churning
Denmark might, with plenty of advantage to us and
herself, send us some of her surplus milk extracters
and bull coaxers. From time to time she has done
so, but in almost every case the immigrant Dane:
has returned to his own pastures with a look of dis-
gust settled upon his intelligent features. The
reason is not a joyful one. The man from Jutland
has no objection to work, and is used to putting in
long hours at his job, but he finds Australian condi-
tions, too much for him. It is the absence of -intel-
lectual companionship that breaks him up. In the
matter of education tlie Danish peasant is about five
centuries ahead of the -Australian cow cocky. Often
the man at the pail and churp speaks two or three lan-
guages,- and has a good knowledge of European litera-
ture. His Australian employer;- on the other hand, speaks
one language injuriously* and has a magnificent ignoi-
ance of everything outside his own eowyard. It is
worthy of note that Danish education hasn’t in any
way lowered the price of Danish butter in London.
THE AMATEUR DROTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were short of men at Castlebanlc,
As shearing time came round ;
-Five hundred ewes at the Three-Mile Tank
And no one to be found,
To bring them to the homestead yard ;
The track was wide and clear and hard.
The boss 'called, in his anguish deep,
The uew-chum, just to hand ;
And said: “Oh, fetch those crimson sheep.
There’s neither scrub nor sand ;
The track is plain ; you can’t go wrong,
The ewes are fat and fairly strong.”
’Twas mid-day out at Castlebanlc,
The new-chum galloped in ;
The foam was on his horse's flank,
The boss looked black as sin.
The new-chum softly mopped his face,
And touched his hat with courtly grace.
“There’s something wrong,” he gently said ;
“The sheep, I think, are sick.
They’re lying down, and some are dead,
At first they travelled quick,
And galloped fast, and came on well!”
“They galloped!” gasped the boss. “O Hell!”
“But now,” the new-chum babbled, “when
They canter hard they trip,
And won’t get up. I’ll try again,
I came back for a whip!”
The boss had swooned. His face went grey,
We watched beside his bed all day.
VICTORIA.
FRANK RADCLIFFE.
A New Minister.
This letter lias come to hand from some
party unknown
Mr Bulletin, Sir: I rise to move for the appoint-
ment of a Minister, who seems to be called for more
than the Vigorous Progressive Policy, the New
Liberal Leader and the Long-felt Want rolled into
one. He is to be called the Minister for Compli-
ments, and his. especial function will be the respon-
sibilitv for public congratulations and condolences.
At least they will be his strong suits, though he
will have other spheres of usefulness, as you shall
hear. Whenever any king, queen, pope, archbishop,
sultan, highcoekalorum, Methodist president, prize-
fighter, or other person Of great distinction is born,
married, ascends the throne, has his life saved, wins
a horse race or a prize in Tatt.’s, or is otherwise
entitled to shout drinks; or whenever the said
potentate or important bloke is sick, dead, re-
volushed' or shot at, the Minister for Compliments
is to be the sole officer for passing out the appro-
priate congratulation, sympathy, joy or grief of
this country to the person aforesaid or his next of
kin. All governors, politicians, mayors, aldermen,
shire councillors and newspaper editors will be re-
quired, under Section 2 of the Enabling Act, to
keep their eloquence severely repressed. The object
of the Minister’s appointment is to save the absurd
waste of time, ink and gab which would otherwise
be let loose on a long-suffering public.
By way of illustrating- how this appointment is
really shouted for, consider these facts. A short
time ago we were solemnly informed that the
Mikado of Japan was dead. The Japanese Consul in
the city this screed comes from portentously an-
nounced the news to the daily papers, with observa-
tions about his “mournful duty,” etc., and in
Parliament the Premier moved a vote of condolence
or something, and talked the usual piffle about the
profound sorrow of the Australian people. The
same consul, also from his place in the House, spoke
feelingly of the deep grief that must be felt by the
Japanese subjects. A day or two afterwards he
made another public announcement about how he
had communicated it all to the Jap Foreign Min-
ister, who had replied that our expressions of
sorrow, etc., and the fact “that the Town Hall bells
had been rung (!) were highly valued,” etc. It
was, as a fact, a comparatively light let-off for the
public at that.
Occasionally an Admiral happens along at some
Australian State capital. When this occurs sundry
guns are banged off from the ships, followed by
corresponding explosions from the shore. Then the
Admiral calls on the Governor, the Governor calls
on the Admiral, the Mayor calls on the Admiral, the
Admiral calls on the Mayor, the Aide-de-camp calls
on the Town Clerk, and the boatswain calls on the
Inspector of Nuisances. .By this time the calling
business has got so complex that the Admiral ends
it by heaving anchor and clearing out.
Under my -scheme, all’ this ridiculous waste of
cards- and wear and tear of uniforms is saved. Sup-
pose, for instance, a royal marriage is announced.
The Minister for Compliments cables the parties:
“Good luck.’ Don’t, do. it again. Butter-dish follows
by-post.”. Or, if the Admiral arrives, he. will, send
up an A.B. With his card to the Minister. The
Minister will endorse it, “Received,” and if he feels
so inclined, will say to the A. 8.: “Tell your boss
we’re glad he’s here, and ask him to drop in for a
drink any time he’s passing. Have one yourself
now.” Honor is satisfied, and -the-whole business
done expeditiously. You see how simple it is!
If at any time it seems necessary to take any
extra notice.-of an .event, the Speaker may perhaps
be allowed (with the consent .of the Minister) to
rise and say: “Gentlemen, the Princess Bullterria,
of England, is affianced to the Grand Duke of
Dachshund —er question of congratulations the
Minister for Compliments.” ' The -Minister will
probably interject: “Righto,” or “Fair thing,” and
the Speaker,’ without .losing his stride, will add:
“Done. Next business.” Or he may announce:
“Gentlemen, the Shah of . Heligoland is: reported
dead. That this House is agreed that he is
dead. Forthequestionthosewhosayayeontheeontraryno
theayeshaveit. MotionforthesuppressionofWowsersthe
honorableMemberforWallabyHills.” Then if any fat-
headed Member gets up and tries to air his grief,
the Speaker will promptly say: “The honorable
Member is disorderly,” and the Sergeant-at-Arms
will get his tin sword ready.
Balls, weddings, funerals and receptions will be
side-lines of the Minister, and his department will,
of course, be kept adequately supplied with butter-
dishes, confetti, kid gloves and crape. This line
will appear on the annual Estimates, and whenever
the Opposition feel critical about the Minister’s con-
duct, it will take the form of a motion to reduce
the Confetti-and-Crape vote, but that will be a
trifling circumstance. —Yours, Bill O’Costs.
“Batman’s Ghost” : The grimy coal-hulk —
the stripped body of an old-time tea clipper
—lay alongside the 12,000-ton P. and O.
steamer. The poop deck, once the scoured
and burnished pride of a captain who pro-
bably scorned steam, was desecrated with a
line of assorted female washing hung out by
the lighterman’s wife. So much for the
proud clipper of 40 years ago. Not far
away, looking absurdly small and dirty, lay
what had once been an inter-State steamer
of importance, now humbly engaged in carry-
ing coal. So much for the steamer of 20
years ago. Time passes and ships grow taller
and deeper. Only the harbors remain the
same. All the Harbor Trusts’ dredges and
men can’t do much more for Sydney
and Melbourne —-especially Melbourne—than
Nature has done already. Sand-shifting is
a costly and never-ending business, and sub-
merged rock-blasting in a tide-race like the
Port Phillip Rip has its financial limits. It
is sorrowful to have these facts in mind
when considering three generations of ships,
the last of which, the 12,000-ton P. and 0.,
represents about the limit of Victoria’s one
harbor, or rather the one dashed bad harbor
which the congestion policy allows Victoria
to use. How many years has Melbourne
got before such items as the following will
cease to brighten the shipping column of the
Age :
In consequence of a large influx of ocean liners
yesterday morning, Hobson’s Bay presented an un-
usually busy appearance. The first passenger steamer
of note to put in an appearance was the five-masted
Federal Shire liner Argyllshire, from Liverpool, via
Capetown and Adelaide. Almost simultaneous with
the arrival of the Argyllshire was that of another
Federal Shire liner, the Cornwall, from London, via
Adelaide. Steaming up the bay behind the Federal
Shire boats came the two magnificent mail steamers
Osterley and Malwa. The Orient liner was coming
from Sydney and Brisbane, outward bound, and
the P. and O. boat was arriving from London. An-
other notable arrival to consort the mail steamers
up the bay was that of the Tyser line’s latest ad-
dition to the fleet, the immigrant s. Makarini.
The thin shadow of the future is thrown
across the column in the very next item: —
Beyond the little Launceston trader Wareatea and
a number of small coasting steamers, the only depar-
ture from port yesterday was the tramp s. Tordensk-
jold, which arrived from Ocean Island, via Wallaroo,
a week ago.
Tramps and little coasters! How many
more years for the one congested port of
Victoria? You can figure it out pretty
accurately by contrasting the new ships
with the old, and allowing a discount—a
fairly liberal discount —for the more rapid
development of the scornful and towering
40,000-tonner of the future.
From “Silaba” : “Dano” (B. 8/8/T2) errs
as to South Africa being the only place capable of
supplying Australia with the ostriches required to
make a really good start in the feather trade. As a
matter of fact, the Union is far from satisfied with
the quality of its birds. I myself saw a shipment of
80 ostriches landed in Capetown in May this year.
A NON-STARTER.
JOCKEY: “ Gam, there ain't no bloomin' 'orse
called Soon."
They had been imported at Government cost, for the
purpose of improving the breed in South Africa.
The Botha crowd despatched an “expedition,” con-
sisting of one expert and two politicians, to Barbary,
to procure these birds. The fowl were actually
snared by a tribe or nation or push of niggers—the
Haussa —-who hang out somewhere on the edge of
the Sahara, north of Nigeria.


SPEAKER WILLIS AND THE SYDNEY "TELEGRAPH.”
S. M. HERALD: “What a splendid ad. But it ain’t fair to give it all to one paper!”
,
v if" If


NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
THE ROYAL ROAD
TO HEALTH
15 FOUND BY
CLEMENTS
TONIC
The Rev. J. Hosking, D.D.. Minis-
ter of the Congregational Mission
Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne, writes: —
“/ suffered from Nervous Pros-
tration. Insomnia and Nervous
Headaches. One bottle of
Clements Tonic put me right, and
was worth its weight in gold!”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ex-Premier Jack Verran, of S.A., in
attacking a Liberal member who had hint.d
maladministration on the part of the late
Labor Cabinet, said: “The honorable mem-
ber likes telling stories like these. He glories
in it. He sticks his spike into every dead
carcase he finds in the street, and holds it
up before the public, and then rolls it under
his tongue as a rich morsel.”
The Melbourne Historical Society is not
living in vain. It has summoned a spirit of
unrelenting piety from the dead past. The
other night the Rev. Waterfield, son of the
first Congregationalist shepherd in Mel-
bourne, beguiled the society with some ex-
tracts from the diary of his revered father.
Rev. Waterfield, deceased, seems to have re-
garded the frivolity of youth from the same
point of view as the lamentable John Wes-
ley, who railed against the parental indis-
cretion of permitting children to have holi-
days from school. His diary recorded how
the youth of the period imperilled their sal-
vation at a certain New Year’s Day picnic
by “sinfully walking about, instead of re-
maining with their elders, as young folks
nhould.” Fortunately, one or two* of them
fell over stumps and were bruised. Rev.
Waterfield, deceased, seems to have drawn
some comfort from the reflection that their
sin had found them out. Yet he was, doubt-
less, a Good Man in his generation. He was
a Wowser of Early Melbourne, neither better
nor worse than his up-to-date brethren who
prowl around the parks seeking for sights
to be shocked at.
POPE COOPER, CHIEF JUSTICE OF
QUEENSLAND.
Some September birthdays: Broken Hill
manager Delprat, 56 on the Ist; J. A. Hogue
(N.S.W.), 66 on the 2nd ; Professor Anderson
(Sydney Uni.). 54 on the 3rd; Spofforth
“the Demon,” 57 on the 9th; cherubic Dr.
Bevan (Vic.), 70 on the 11th; Bishop Frod-
sham, 49 on the 14th; Under-Secretary Sholl
(S.A.). 68 on the 15th; Arthur ivlorgan
(Q.), 56 on the 19th: Dr. “Plevna” Ryan,
59 on the 20th; Bishop Dunne (Wilcannia,
N.S.W), 66, Dr. Elkington (Q.), 42, and
John Carr (S.A.), Australia’s oldest poli-
tician, still militant, 93, on the 21st; Attor-
ney-General Hughes, 48 on the 25th; Rev.
Dr. Strong (Melbourne), 68 on the 26th;
and Senator Symon (S.A.), 66 on the 27th.
GHOSTS , OR A TROUBLED
CONSCIENCE.
Apropos Federal Labor’s relations to Increased Im-
portations, the Hop Poon Gooey precedent, defaulting
cadets, etc., etc.
Andy has fallen into a bad though easy
habit , which doesn't altogether make for peace
of mind.
Wilfred Blackett, barrister, of Sydney, has
become the 16th K.C. on the N.S.W. roll,
and wears the silk gown with aplomb and
everything else a silk gown should be worn
with. The new K.C. drove a brilliant pen
on The Bulletin some 26 years ago, and
in a period when typewriters were almost
unknown, and the best journalist had a habit
of being also the most illegible, the fact that
he wrote a clerkly hand made him a good
exception to the bad old rule. There are still
compositors hereabouts who, if they commit
murder in their later years and make a
failure of the concealment of the body, will
clamor to have Mr. Blackett defenci tnem re-
gardless of cost (though the defence of
elderly and bloodstained compositors isn t
his general line of business) for the sake of
those pleasant bygone days.
“H.” re a hook-nosed apostle:—
The best notice of General Booth is in the auto-
biography of ex-Commissioner Nicol, written with-
out 0 the tinge of animus which is evinced by other
ex-officers. Nicol and wife joined the Army over 30
vears ago. He rose to bo Booth’s most valuable man,
next to son Bramwell. Nicol came with Booth on
his first trip to Australia, and engineered it. A more
devoted adherent there could not be. Like Pollard,
Booth’s chief man in another visit to Aus-
tralia ; and Pollard also has left the Army.
Why do such men go? Mr. _ and Mrs. Nicol
gave up a comfortable position in life when they
joined the Salvationists, and underwent severe priva-
tions. Nicol renders every justice to the General, and
recognises his commanding ability. Yet Nicol feels
that the Army is a failure. He. could not continue
in association with what he thought to be dubious
practices. He joined a great religious movement,
which he thought came like Wesley’s, to quicken
spiritual life. It has changed into something else.
The members of the Army, apart from the enormous
body of paid officers, are really few all over the
world. The myriads of so-called conversions a.re like
pouring water through a colander. The social up-
heaval attempted by Booth is beyond the strength
of anv such organisation, though Government praises
such things for feeble endeavors to perform the duty
which belongs to it. Citizens at large feel this more
and more as the chorus of praise swells over General
Booth. What he is praised for people do not exactly
know. The most graphic part of Nicol’s book is the
account of how Ballington Booth was dislodged from
America. After leaving Australia, Ballington had
nine glorious years there, and, indeed, consolidated
the Army. Nicol shows how scrupulously fair the
General was in dealing with his family, wherefore
the secessions of Catherine, Ballington and Herbert.
The usual term of a commanding officer in anv country
is four years. In Australia this was lengthened by
the General, through the conspicuous success of
Howard, Coombs and McKie, and in Barker’s case
through his putting somewhat of a screw on. How-
ever, when Ballington had enjoyed his U.S. billet for
more than double the term, the General said: “In
all fairness I must remove you.” Ballington jibbed.
The General sent daughter Eva to supersede him,
with Nicol as Chief Officer. Ballington shut them
out of the New York barracks, where he had con-
vened a meeting of American officers. To these he
expounded his scheme for an American Army, and
claimed their adhesion. Eva and Nicol were outside
in despair, till Nicol introduced Eva in a surreptitious
way, apparently through a back door or window.
She flew to the room where Ballington was address-
ing the officers, burst in with an impassioned oration,
and won the day. It makes one think of the great
crisis in Napoleon’s life, before the Legislature in
Paris, only the Napoleon of this case had to depart
into the wilderness. Ballington departed in baffled
rage. Such are behind-scene doings.
Judge a’Beckett is the most absent-
minded potentate in the Victorian courts,
and gets names and persons so mixed up
that barristers are often in danger of being
condemned to seven years hard. Ihe otner
day a well-known Gentleman One named
Lazarus was appearing before Ins Honor
and was addressed from the Bench as Mr.
Abrahams” throughout the sitting. When
the case was resumed next day his Honor
said : “Mr. Abrahams, I am told that all day
yesterday I was addressing you as Air.
Lazarus. It was a mere lapsus linguae. Ot
course I know you very well, Mr. Abra-
hams.”
“W’lang”: Dr. G. E.
Morrison’s biographer (B.
15/8/T2) is as inaccu-
rate as they are made.
G.E.M. is not a Mel;
bournite —he’s a Geelong
native, being a son of Dr.
Morrison, for years head
of the local Scotch Col-
lege. His first long walk
was from Queenscliff to
Adelaide, when he was 18
or thereabouts. It was
on this journey that he
learned the great and
abiding truth that boots
without stiffening at the
heels are best for long
walking trips. The spear
thrusts he got were one
in the eye and the other
in the abdomen. Tart
of the weapon which ac-
complished the latter
puncture was extracted
from him while he was
doing his medical course
at Glasgow. I met him
after his return from
Papua. His lack of the
swelled-head complaint
was a gracious contrast
to the condition of Julian
Thomas, alias “The Vag-
abond.” Julian represented the Argus in
an expedition to Tapua at the same time as
Morrison, and had the misfortune to sustain
an attack of atrophy of the sense of modesty,
from which he never fully recovered.
“O.Iv.”: When the death of Bonnor, the
cricket giant, was announced it also tran-
spired, to the surprise of many people, that
the mighty smiter of yore was in a bad way
financially for years before his health broke
up. Poor Bonnor! Why, he might have
earned a decent living on the stage as
Charles the Wrestler, or any character in
which his handsome Saxon face and 78
inches of towering manhood would have
made him the ideal exponent. Neither on
the cricket field nor off it did the batting
Goliath make proper use of his physique.
“Road and Bridges” writes : —-
As foretold in The Bulletin some months ago,
“Holy Joe” Davis is to return from London to pre-
side over the N.S.W. Works Department. Davis was
Under-Secretarv in the more or less dim past, but
when Cecil Darley skied the job of engineering ex-
pert in London, Joseph, somewhat to the relief of
the P.W. Department, succeeded him there. The pre-
sent intention is to make Davis the Director of
Works and Permanent Head of the Department. This
has been made possible by appointing Under-Sec.
Hanna Public Service Commissioner. The Govern-
ment is well satisfied with the change, doubtless, but
we of the P.W. Department are the very reverse. As
regards persons named Joseph we have no luck.
Once another J oseph—Barling—was our boss, and
when he went over as P.S.B. Commissioner, we were
wildly happy. Now we lose a popular boss the same
way and get another Joseph.
“Logos” : Let me raise a howl against the
increasing misuse of the word “obsessed.”
The demonological distinction was that,
while a person would be “possessed” by a
devil dwelling within him, he would be “ob-
sessed” by a devil approaching him from
without. A Callan Park (N.S.W.) medico
states that Chidley is obsessed by his theory.
But, since Childey’s theory, whatever it is,
resides permanently in his own head, or
stomach, or wherever theories dwell, it pos-
sesses him, or he possesses it. There’s no
obsession in the matter. #
HIGH ART.
The annual exhibition of the Royal Art Society,
which was open to the press yesterday and is o ion to
the public to-day, provides much food for reflection
for artists and for all those who sympathise with the
great subject of art on its pictorial side.
What about the high cost of living now?
One municipal candidate at Elsternwick
(Yic.) was seen carting his supporters to
the poll in superannuated mourning coaches
the other day. He called himself the pro-
gressive candidate, too.
MRS. AUSTRALIA'S DOMESTIC
TROUBLES.
The efforts to trace the 10,000 14-year-old boys who
failed to register for drill have proved unsuccessful
in Victoria.
MRS. AUSTRALIA (after several coo-ees): “I
dunno where yer 'idin' yer young varmints,
but yer go in' ter catch it when I ao get
yer! ”
The Old Man’s send off: —
One of the best known and oldest identities of
Melbourne, James Stewart Butters, . passed out on
Saturday last in his 81st year. He was born at Bal-
gownie, and entered a softgoods’ warehouse in Dun-
dee (Scotland), where he remained five years. In
1853 he married Miss Helen Sparkie, and sailed in
the Pauline for Australia, arriving after a voyage of
134 days. Two days after his arrival he entered the
service of Nathaniel Dismoor, a silk mercer of
Collins-street East (he was a son-in-law of the first
Anthony Hordern, and had his establishment within
a few doors of Swanston-street, on the north
side of Collins-street). Subsequently he went
to Ross’s, in Bourke-street, where he met one
Wilkie, and the pair opened business in Warrnambool.
He lost his wife there and came to Melbourne. In
1860 he married Miss O’Neill, a squatter’s daughter.
She died in 1878. A third time he wedded, Miss
Ilattermann, a native of Bendigo, of German ex-
traction. She died in 1885 of consumption. In
1856 Butters joined W. G. Baillie in the business of
gold-buyers and stockbrokers, which trade was car-
ried on for 14 years. They were about the first
sharebrokers in Melbourne, Mr. Butters being one of
the founders of the Stock Exchange. In 1865 he
became a member of the City Council, and in 1868,
the year of the arrival of the Duke of Edinburgh,
he was Mayor. At the fancy dress ball (at which the
writer was present), Mrs. Butters appeared as “The
Press,” her dress being the newspapers of the day,
printed on silk. In that year Butters was elected
member for Portland in the Legislative Assembly,
and held the seat under difficulties. There was a
fund in existence from which members of Parliament
were alleged to be paid for services, and Butters
was, on inquiry, deemed to be one of the agents for
the distribution of the fund. Expulsion followed,
but he was re-elected. In 1870, however, having
acquired land interests in Fiji, he and his partner
Baillie went there. Here Baillie was murdered by
parties who are still at large. A large number of
people from Victoria and N. S. Wales about that
time established themselves in Fiji. Thackambau
fell in with the idea of a local Parliament and
Ministry. Sydne}' Burt, of Sydney, was Chief Secre-
tary ; Lockwood, of Victoria, was in the Ministry;
Butters was Speaker of the Assembly. Britain woke
up, however, and sent Hercules Robinson along to
“annex,” and the local Parliament was thrown out.
In 1874 Butters returned to Melbourne, and started
the Victorian Club adjoining the Town Hall. Since
then his career has been of a varied character. Of
late years he had an interest in an hotel at the sea-
side, out Mornington way. He was an able worker
in all public charities, but was too open-handed a
character to pile up money. He has left a grown-up
family. His mining ventures were of the biggest,
yet he died poor. Perhaps it should be said that he
naturally died poor because of his ventures. But he
lived every day of his strenuous 81 years, and found
this world a good place to dwell in.
Thomas George Macarthy,
the white-haired ancient who.
until lately, built terraces of
beer in Wellington (M.L.),
created a sensation by the will
he left behind him. The brew-
ing of decayed barley and frag-
rant herbs had made him the
owner of £500,000. Part of the
cash is to go to charitable and
educational purposes, but some
pleasing little legacies and an-
nuities are to be scattered
round. The poor and afflicted
of Geelong (Vic.) are to get
£lOOO, and an annuity for the
deceased’s mother-in-law is also
in the bill. But the most re-
markable provision is one which
instructs the Public Trustee to
look after any husband whom
the widow of the testator may
at any time annex or otherwise acquire.
George Reid says a man never gets warm
rivlit through in Canada. Canada will pro-
bably appeal for rebutting evidence to men
who are not so far through.
THE MAN WITH THE AXE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The council would not be justified in giving Colonel
Onslow information. He would simply go and raise
Cain in the House. Ail Colonel Onslow wanted was
to get an axe with which to attack the Government.
—The Mayor of Vaucluse (Sydney).
Behold, where runs a wild and lurid bloke
Who leaves a stream of gore in all his tracks —
No, it is not a prehistoric joke ;
It is the gallant Colonel with the axe.
How will the Ministry fall in affright
And James McGowen tremble in his shoes,
Before the dreadful and horrific sight
Of Onslow, shrieking “Vengeance and Vaucluse!”
Most frightful is the Colonel in his wrath !
His followers are Agony and Pain ;
And Blood and Murder prowl along the path,
For Onslow is abroad, and raising Cain.
Cain, all red-handed with his brother’s life,
Whose greedy thirst the heart’s blood hardly slakes,
While plunges deep the fratricidal knife—
Oh, such is Onslow when his fury wakes!
Only, when Onslow waves his hatchet wild,
And resurrects the awful ghost of Cain,
Why has the other party always smiled,
And sunk to sweet forgetfulness again?
Wade waves the sword, and Onslow shakes the spear,
Fitzpatrick pulls the vizor o’er his brow,
But no one shows the slightest sign of fear—
We’ve grown too well accustomed to it now.
N.S.W.
L.


m
a
m
mmm
feSsssaW*
I
m
■
l
%
0?
X
Hf
.
SHBNSs@s|S|v?
3@®§l
*
n
s
•• :.
IS?
- •:
'
\ **%
i
§k
■fa
as
*•* v”
itmh
•«5
“ That will do nicely , Jackson ; but , <sy 2£/#y, where do you get yens clowns ?
“ GO WINGS ! ”
Ne make a special feature of our tailoring for professional and business men. We have a catalogue
arefully detailing the various styles and prices. Send for it and patterns, and we will guarantee
ou perfect satisfaction. We quote —
The “Austral” to Measure (Machine-made), 635., 705., and 755.
The “Austral” Special (Hand-made), 845., 905., 955., and 105 s.
GOWING
486, 488 & 490 George St.; 3,5, 7,9,
11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
If
SISKOL" ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian PostmasteuGeneral’s De-
partment—the concern which is behind time with the
letters and deaf with the telephone—isn’t making
much of a name for itself in the matter of finance.
This is the record of recent years:—
Revenue. Expenses. Surplus.
1906- .. £3,128,574 £2,690,363 £438,211
1907- . . 3,300,096 2,933,835 366,261
1908- .. 3,409,425 3,069,868 339,557
1909- . . 3,731,741 3,231,198 500,543
1910- .. 3,905,131 3,561,928 343,203
1911- .. 3,911,286 3,827,160 84,126
Estimate. Shortage.
1912- .. 4,202,000 4,253,410 51,410
Now, in the first six years enumerated, there was paid
for new works out of the general revenue —not out
of loans —about £3,900,000, and another £BOO,OOO
is to be expended this year. There being no interest
bill to pay on these sums, the profits of the new
works are all available to help the revenue, and
should have greatly improved the position. Even if
necessary increases of wages consumed a good deal
the department should at least have kept solvent.
The slump of £551,000 in three years looks an ap-
palling case of muddle and bad management. The
Fisher Government reckons on a general shortage
of about £2,261,500 this year, which may just
about be covered by the surpluses left over from pre-
vious years. After they are gone it looks as if
serious troubles might be expected. A good part of
the expenditure arises through the construction of
public works out of revenue instead of the old
familiar loans, and this is a wholly commendable
business. A deficit caused in such a fashion isn’t
the ordinary kind of deficit. But the advantage of
building public works out of revenue is that the re-
ceipts from them may add to the income instead of
going to Cohen. And in the case of the posts and
telegraphs, it seems that the more unencumbered
public works there are to yield revenue the less net
revenue there is. That is a miserable outlook for
the Baby Bonus Ministry.
The N.S.W. Government flounders along
with its Gas Bill, and seems to lose some of its con-
fidence as it goes, just as it did over its wonderful
Income Tax Bill —the one which proposed to tax
the small local manufacturing co. at about twice the
rate of the fairly large absentee landlord. In fact,
its measure is so full of anomalies that confidence is
bound to leak away somewhat. Minister Carmichael
seems to have based all his estimates on English
figures and ideas, and then decided to be a good
deal more drastic than the British Government ever
dreamed of being. Yet wages are much higher here
than in Britain —the wages of the men who dig out
the coal, and drive it about in carts, and load it on
ships or trains, and drive these ships and trains, and
shovel the mineral into the gas company’s furnaces,
and lay pipes to carry the gas, and make these
pipes, and dig out the iron to make the pipes. And
interest is higher here, consequently money is ex-
pected to yield a better return ; if it were not so, the
Government of which Carmichael is an ornament,
wouldn’t be borrowing with difficulty at 4 p.c.
Again, in rushing headlong at things, a "most material
point was overlooked. There are in many lines, and
there may be in the gas business also, companies in
which large reserves have been transferred to capital;
thus, the shareholders might have put up £50,000
and the nominal capital be £lOO,OOO. There are
others, in which shares have been sold at very high
premiums, and the premiums carried to reserve
fund ; in other words, the shareholders may have put
up £lOO,OOO, and yet the nominal capital be
£50,000. And there are concerns in which the
nominal capital is just what the shareholders put
up. If three such companies were limited equally
to a 4 p.c. dividend on nominal capital, the first lot
would really get 8 p.c. on the money it put up ; the
second would receive 2 p.c. ; the third 4 p.c. The
Government banged into the business apparently with-
out the slightest regard for these possible intri-
cacies of finance. If all reserves were capitalised,
and all companies started from scratch under new
and sensible regulations, the position would be at
least more equitable.
* * * *
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
Writ- To
Dividends and ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June,’o4.. £5032 £B/17/9 p.c. = £4620 £412 £6,679
Dec., ’04.. 5192 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 572 7,251
June,’os.. 5075 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 455 7,706
Dec., ’05.. 5138 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 518 8,224
June,’o6.. 5083 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 463 8,687
Dec., ’06.. 5242 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 622 9,309
June,’o7.. 5238 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 618 9,927
Deo., ’07.. 5903 8,17/9 „ „ 4620 £3OOO 8,210
June,’oB.. 5432 8/17/9 „„ 4620 812 9,022
Dec., ’OB.. 5690 8/17/9 „,, 4620 1070 10,092
June,’o9.. 5633 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 1250 9,855
Dec., ’09.. 6211 8/17/9 ~ „ 4675 500 1036 10,891
June, TO.. 4571 8/17/9 „ „ 4675 10,787
Dec., TO.. 6688 8/17/9 „,, 4620 500 1568 12,355
June,’ll.. 6678 8/17/9 „,, 4620 1500 558 12,913
Dec., ’ll.. 6617 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 1500 497 13,410
June,T2.. 6662 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 1250 792 14,202
This company supplies both gas and electric light,
though it supplies the latter in strict moderation,
and there is always a lurking suspicion that it isn’t
particularly interested in showing profits from that
source. It has had the field to itself hitherto, having
escaped the woeful experience of the Launceston co.,
which was bumped by a cheaply-produced municipal
supply of electric current. The difference is shown
in the dividends paid—Hobart, 8f p.c. approx. ;
Launceston, 4 p.c. How long the Hobart co.’s better
luck is to continue it would be hard to say. Cer-
tainly, a municipal supply doesn’t threaten it, but
the people who have secured the water power from
the Great Lake will be in the field presently, and
they are people of considerable tonnage in Hobart—
“ Jam” Jones and others. Probably “cracking hardy,”
this co. remarks, “Owing to the continued and very
satisfactory increase in the business, it is necessarv
to instal additional plant forthwith,” and the direc-
tors propose to borrow up to £20,000 for the purpose.
When they have to go to the local Cohen for such
a comparatively small matter as that, it suggests
that they have not been hanging on to much of the
profit. Seven years ago there was a credit balance
of £603 at the bank. Now there is an overdraft of
£5948. True, there have been some additions to
the plant. According to the balance-sheet, premises,
plant, etc., used in the gas business, have increased
in value from £88,205 to £97,884. In the same
seven-year period gas sales for the half-year have
grown from £11,312 to £15,642. The increase in
business is thus considerably bigger than the increase
in the book value of plant, etc. ; so that some ad-
ditions may have been made out of profits and the
cost written off against depreciation. Still, the
figures are not striking, and there has probably been
very little undisclosed profit stowed away. Which
means that even under recent very favorable condi-
tions the co. has been paying away pretty well all it
has earned.
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria) ;
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £3142 12 p.c. =£2520 £622 £19,040
June, 1905.. 2537 12 ~ ~ 2520 17 19,057
Dec., 1905.. 2710 12 „„ 2520 £2OO 19,047
June, 1906.. 2563 12 „„ 2520 112 18,978
Dec., 1906.. 3271 12 „ „ 2520 751 19,729
June, 1907.. 2534 12 „„ 2520 14 19,743
Dec., 1907.. l2 „ „ 2520 200 19,599
June, 1908.. 2609 12 ~ ~ 2520 210 19,478
Dec., 1908.. 2424 12 ~ „ 2520 19,382
June, 1909.. 2752 12 „ ~ 2520 192 40 19,422
Dec., 1909.. 2523 12 ~ ~ 2520 251 19,174
June, 1910.. 2636 12 „„ 2520 50 66 19,240
Dec., 1910.. 2973 12 „ „ 2520 50 403 19,643
June, 1911.. 2530 12 ~ ~ 2520 232 —19,42 L
Dec., 1911.. 2396 10 ~ ~ 2100 50 246 19,667
June, 1912.. 2168 10 ~ ~ 2100 50 18 19.655
The co. has evidently decided to cast aside the 12 p.c.
until it can really afford it. Meantime, it divides
another 10 p.c., but even this appears too much, as,
after allowing £5O for depreciation, only £lB is left
to be carried to reserves. Certainly the position is
better than it was a few years back, when the
reserves were constantly being drawn upon to pay
the div. Profits are also moving in the wrong direc-
tion, the £2168 for the six months being the lowest
for a good many years, and only slightly over 10 p.c.
on the capital. Gas sales are dropping in a very
decided manner. The revenue from that source this
half-year shows £5150, as compared with £5485 at
Dec., 1911 (a drop of £335), and £5446 at June
1911 (a drop of £296 for the corresponding half-year).
This gives another view of the case: —
June, Dec., June,
1905. 1911. 1912.
Liquid assets .. £9OlB £6274 £5074
Liabilities .. .. 187 1487 1137
Surplus.. .. £BB3l £4787 £3937
So, in its effort to pay the excessive dividend, and
provide for renewals and additions, the co. has drawn
on its liquid assets to the extent of £4894 in seven
years. And the additions, etc., don’t seem to have
been very profitable, either, judging from the con-
tinued decrease in gas sales. It is a very poor show-
ing, and the safest remedy is for the shareholders to
forego more of their dividends for a couple of vears.
* * * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1904.. £llBO 15p.c.=£750 £430 £7,414
June, 1905.. 1111 15 „ ~ 750 361 7,775
Dec., 1905.. 1205 15 ~ ~ 750 455 8,230
June, 1906.. 997 15 ~ „ 760 247 8,477
Dec., 1906.. 1079 15 „ „ 750 329 8,806
June, 1907.. 1273 15 „„ 750 523 9,329
Dec., 1907.. 1097 15 „ ~ 750 347 9,676
June, 1908.. 1216 15 ~ „ 750 466 10,142
Dec., 1908.. 972 15 ~ „ 750 222 10,364
June, 1909.. 1117 15 „ ~ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909.. 872 15 „ ~ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910.. 1090 15 „ ~ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 ~ ~ 750 10,855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 ~ ~ 750 331 11,186
Deo., 1911.. 851 15 ~ ~ 750 101 11,287
June, 1912.. 1174 15 ~ „ 750 424 11,711
The co.’s capital is £lO,OOO, so the half-year’s profit
is at the rate of 23 p.c. p.a. ; which is calculated to
make shareholders feel more cheerful than consumers.
Sales of gas, etc., for the six months to June, 1912,
were £3664, and for the period to June, 1911,
£3294. So the co. seems to be making progress in
that respect. The following shows the big improve-
ment in another direction :
June, 1902. June, 1912.
Liquid assets .. £4,155 £11,136
Liabilities .. 267 500
Surplus .. £3,888 £10,636
So the consumers have added £6748 to the surplus
of liquid assets, besides paying the shareholders an
annual 15 p.c. for a good many years, and have paid
for all renewals, repairs and additions, on which, of
course, they will continue to pay a dividend of 15 or
so p.c., just as if the# shareholders had bought the
new works with their own money. It is a glorious
arrangement for the shareholders, but it looks as
though it won’t last much longer. Last week Goul-
burn decided, by vote, to authorise the council to
borrow £13,000 for electric lighting purposes, and
when a municipal electric lighting station is opened,
this co. is bound to lose some of its custom.
The Queensland Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (Ipswich, Queensland) :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £4168 Nil £12,000 £6,263
1901.. 4151 2b p.c. = £1225 £2926 9,189
1902.. 2140 Nil 5,000 6,329
Loss.
1903.. 1386 Nil 4,943
1904.. 2880 Nil 2,063
Deficit.
1905.. 2795 Nil 7,175 7,907
1906.. 446 Nil 5,733 14,086
Assets written down and losses written off, £5546 19,632
Reserves.
£23,339 (one-half the capital) written off, leaving 3,707
Loss.
1907.. 411 Nil 3,296
1908.. 514 Nil 2,782
Profit.
1909.. 1657 Nil 500 1157 3,939
1910.. 2990 Nil 2,000 990 4,929
1911.. 3563 Nil 2,000 1563 6,492
1912.. 4867 2£ p.c. = 613 2,000 2254 5,746
Thus does the bloated Protected Australian manufac-
turer, of whose machinations the semi-Freetrade
Labor party is so alarmed, pile up great wealth and
lead the riotous life in his marble halls. It is 10
years since this company saw a dividend, and then
it got a wretched 2 b p.c. In the interim it has
written off one-half its capital, so its present divi-
dend is only in reality 1.) p.c. And when 1 j p.c.
happens once in 10 years it is really half a crown
per £lOO per annum. And when that half-crown
per £lOO per annum has to be applied to cover
loss of capital, it becomes a great deal less than
nothing per cent, per annum. The way of the Aus-
tralian manufacturing co. is hard. Labor people,
who will boycott an Australian co. if it pays less
than £3 a week for 44 hours toil, will cheerfully
buy the goods of an English concern, which pays
255. a week for 60 hours. Labor people who loathe
sweating in Australia will cheerfully buy the worst
variety of sweated goods provided they come from
abroad. Enthusiastic Australian unionists will buy
non-union goods if assured that they arrive here on
a foreign-owned ship, manned by niggers. So things
are cold and bleak for the Australian white labor
and union-wage factory owner. It is especially so in
Queensland, where Harry Coyne and his general
strikers hailed a mob of twopenny Lascar seamen as
brothers, because they struck work and marched to
the Trades Hall, and where the Labor paper declared
that Socialism obliterated the color line. Taking one
thing with another, the Queensland Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. hoes a hard row. Things look a little
better with it than they did. Still, it struggles
with an overdraft of more than £16,000, and it pays a
dividend that, if such a dividend were paid by the
importing middleman, would be regarded as sheer
pauperism.
* * * *
The Marshall Shoe Co., Ltd. (Melb.),
was formed last year to carry on a manufacturing
and distributing business, established about four years
earlier. The co. began with a goodwill asset of
£7500, but this deficit was reduced by a renewal
reserve (£4320) and a general reserve for contin-
gencies (£100(p, leaving £2lBO of paper, plus
£892 of preliminary expenses, or total paper assets
of £3072, to wipe out: —
Towards
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
July, 1911.. -- „ £3072
Reserves.
June, 1912.. £15,029 8 p.c. =£6367 £8662 5590
The co. now issues its first statement of accounts. The
balance-sheet shows a renewal reserve of £4320, and
a general reserve of £1000; it can only be assumed
that these funds were in existence when the company
was formed. Anyway, there is nothing to suggest
that they are appropriations out of the current year s
revenue. On tlie contrary, certain appropriations are
now expressly made, bringing the renewal fund to
£lO,OOO, and the other fund to £l5OO. The capital
to start with was apparently £84,522. Subsequently
£20,320 more was issued, making the total at the
end of the year £104,842, in 24,000 8 p.c. cumula-
tive prefs. and 97,500 ordinaries. All these shares
are £1 each, but an aggregate of £16,658 is unpaid
upon them. The vendors took 42,403 shares in pay-
ment for the business. Goodwill was included, being
valued at £7500. In the foregoing this intangible
commodity is not regarded as an asset, and the
management itself very properly proceeded to get rid
of it by writing off £5OO. 'The co. has got away
off the mark in rare style. The profit shown above
is £15,029, out of which £5680 is earmarked for
the renewal fund. It does not transpire whether any-
thing is written off against depreciation. It is quite
poss ble, therefore, that this £5680 should be de-
ducted from the profits, assuming that that is a fail-
amount to cover the 12 months’ wear and tear of
plant, etc. Even with this deduction, the remaining
profit would be equal to about 11 p.c. on what
appears to be the average capital held during the
year—a very satisfactory figure, when it is remem-
bered that some of the money raised for the pur-
pose of purchasing new plant must have been unpro-
ductive for some time. Plant is valued''at £31,128.
Most shoe factories are more or less under the heel
of the Shoe Trust, which hires out its machines the
Marshall people own their plant absolutely, and
consequently have no unending royalties ahead of
them. The other principal assets are freeholds
£11,344, stock £62,090 and book debts £33,049;
on the other side, liabilities total £25,648. The
co. is very progressive, and its business seems to be
growing rapidlv ; in view of that its financial position
is very fair. The bulk of the liabilities are made up
of sundry trade creditors.
The Southland Building and Invest-
ment Society and Bank of Deposit (Invercargill,
M.L.) :
Net To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1899 .. £1687 4J p.c. =£ '357 £36
1900 .. 2445 4 ~ ~ 2326 £ll9 155
1901 .. 2556 4 ~ ~ 2244 312 467
1902 .. 2680 41 ~ ~ 2475 205 672
1903 .. 2649 4| ~ ~ 242) 220 892
1904 .. 2811 5 „ ~ 2637 174 1066
1905 .. 2913 5 ~ ~ 2267 46 1112
1906 .. 3483 5 ~ ~ 3177 306 1418
1907 .. 4547 6 ~ ~ 4277 270 1688
1908 .. 4566 6 ~ ~ 4329 37 1725
1909 .. 5477 6 „ „ 5364 113 1838
1910 .. 6151 6 „ „ 5911 240 2078
1911 .. 6688 6 ~ ~ 6613 75 2153
1912 .. 7237 6 ~ ~ 6976 261 2414
Like most building societies this one derives its
supplies from two principal sources, shareholders'
capita] and deposits, secured in this case by deben-
tures. The capital is withdrawable ir. certain cir-
cumstances, but, under the Maoriland law, the
deposits are regulated by the amount of the share
capital, so that any great reduction of the latter
must be followed by a repayment of deposits. The
paid capital in this case is £124,322, while the
deposits amount to £69,581, which is barely more
than half the total allowed by law. The funds are
represented mainly by advances on mortgages
£200,425, and there is not a foreclosed property on
the books. From this it looks as though the credi-
tors need not lose any sleep over their risks. The
steady growth of the concern is further evident by
the following detailed figures:—-
Ad- Properties
Capital. Debentures. vances. in hand.
1900 ..£60,770 £21,092 £74,889 £456
1905 . . 60,920 49,722 112,575
1907 .. 76,291 69,820 145,162
1908 .. 86,014 66,858 155,314
1909 .. 95,799 65,076 165,815 510
1910 .. 105,571 79,348 183,427 524
1911 . . 117,913 81,062 201,055
1912 .. 124,312 69,580 204,782
The weak feature of the business is the almost con-
temptible total of reserves. For some weird reason
or other the rules of the society lay it down that
profits shall not be accumulated beyond 1 p.c. of the
amount of the advances on mortgage. This altogether
inadequate provision against a slump in the value of
securities means that, in the event of such a slump,
shareholders’ capital must pay the piper, although the
advances on which the losses are made may have
been sanctioned years previously, and, therefore,
before the existing shares were created.
Warwick Butter and Dairying Co.
(Queensland), which began with a deficit of £329,
preliminary exes.:—
Bonus to Written
June, Loss. Dividend. Clients. Off. Deficit.
1903.. £lOl Nil _ _ £430
1904.. 273 Nil _ 703
Profit.
1905.. 73 Nil 630
Reserves.
1906.. 2399 S p.c. = £233 £546 £S23 167
1907.. 1830 8 ~ „ 376 898 723
Forfeited capital, £24 .. .. 747
1908.. 2305 8 p.c. = 547 670 769 1066
1909.. 2381 6 „ ~ 442 578 806 1621
1910.. 40ii9 8 ~ ~ 595 1261 1107 2667
1911.. 3163 6 ~ ~ 451 1209 1550 2630
Share premiums, £328 .. .. 2958
1912.. 3787 6 p.c. = 608 2433 579 3125
The co. owns factories at Warwick and Allora and a
new one at Texas, and recently a cheese mill has
been bought from the Lowood Creamery Co., at Elbow
Vale. Droughty conditions interfered with Polly and
Spot during the half-year ; nevertheless, the financial
results seem satisfactory enough. The accounts are,
as usual, well presented ; also, as usual, the financial
position looks quite sound. The liabilities total
£9209, while cash and deposits amount to £6271,
and sundry debtors and stocks run to another £6OOO
or thereabouts. Fixed assets have been well written
down, and the co. seems to have given Prudence a
permanent seat on the Board.
The Australian Drug Co. (Sydney) :
Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Toßeserves. serves.
1911 .. £4766 5 p.c. =£3750 £lOl6 £10,252
1912 „ 3419 5 „ „ 3750 9,921
This is a disappointment. Two years or so back
city men in Sydney told one another that Adam
Forsyth had got hold of another gold-lined thing.
This business was It. It had a capital of only
£lO,OOO, and was over-burdened with debt. The
new company put the capital up to £75,000, and
proceeded to wipe out the liabilities and prepare for
new factories and premises. The profits for the first
year were affected by the existence of the old debt,
which couldn’t all be got rid of at once. Altogether
£2484 was paid in interest on debentures, which
were eventually wiped out by the issue of the new
shares, and if that amount is added to the first year’s
profit, as shown above, the total rises to £7250.
It was pretty confidently expected that the next
year would show a profit big enough to allow of a
10 p.c. dividend. Then the accidents began to
happen. Strikes in Sydney and Brisbane interfered
with the inter-State trade; the building boom in
Sydney resulted in a delay of the eo.’s building
operations; and while the company was shifting
itself, business was disorganised, though it is alleged
that none of the connection was lost. Thus, between
one thing and another, the directors are not able to
show enough profit to pay even 5 p.c.; nevertheless,
they chop into reserves, and make that distribution.
The most cheerful feature from the shareholders’ point
of view will, no doubt, be the directors’ assurance
that tliey don’t think any less of the business and its
golden prospects than they did in the beg.lining.
As to the reserves mentioned above, the reconstructed
company apparently began with £.4374. The co.
was, it seems, floated privately, and the men who
took it in hand made a bargain with the vendors
that the whole of the brokerage thus saved should
be put by them to the credit of the company. This
cave the reserves another whoop of £4861. The
balance of the reserve consists of undivided profit.
As at June 30, liabilities totalled £48,582, includin'.
£25,000 of 5 p.c. debentures; the assets consist
of freehold property £19,307, stock £70,144,
sundry debtors £45,450, and a few minor items —
£2251 in the aggregate. “Sundry debtors” looks a
big item, especially alongside the diminutive profits.
Whether it has increased or not during the year, this
paper can’t say, because nreviously stocks and sundri-
debt were lumped with good old “etc.” The
directors practically ask that judgment shall be
suspended until things settle down into an even
stride, and The Bulletin is prepared to leave it at
that.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quin-
lan, Gray and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Added Nominal
Written to Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £10,981 Nil £7,757 £3224 £14,575
1901.. 9,538 Nil 22,863 1,250
1902 9,026 Nil 9026 10,276
1903.. 7,499 5 p.c. =£3750 3749 14,025
1904 4,311 5 ~ ~ 3750 561 14,586
1905.. 3,953 5 ~ „ 3855 128 14,714
1906.. 4,177 5 „ „ 3855 322 15,036
1907.. 5,025 5 „,, 3855 ' 1170 16;206
1908 . 5.106 5 ~ ~ 3855 1251 17,457
1909.. 6,369 5 „ „ 3857 2512 19,969
1910 7,47 S 5 „ „ '3857 3621 23,590
1911 7,329 5 „,, 3960 3369 26,959
1912.. 15,607 7b „ „ 5989 9678 36,637
It is just 10 years since the company cleaned up the
wreckage which remained after Queensland’s previous
great borrowing boom had burst. The capital had
been £154,262, in shares of 255., most of them paid
to £l. Ten shillings was written off and a call of
2s. 6d. made. The capital was thus left _at a trifle
over £77,000, at which figure it has since stood.
This writing-off allowed of a big cut in the book
value of freeholds, including, no doubt, pub pro-
perties. Since that cleaning up the management has
pursued a modest policy in the matter of dividends,
and has thus gradually improved what may be
roughly called its cash position. The following
shows that aspect■
1902. 1911. 1912.
Liabilities £79,101 £62,315 £67,589
Stock and other liquid (
assets . . . . 57,017 70,678 85,080
Excess liabilities ..£22,084
Surplus . . . . £8,363 £17,491
Thus, in 10 years the co. has made a change of
£39,575 in its outward appearance. To some ex-
tent this may, no doubt, be due to the realisation
of non-liquid assets, such as premises and hotels;
but it does not appear that a very great deal has been
done in that respect. The next table certainly shows
some reduction in both items during the last three
years, but part of it is probably due to the writing
down of these assets: —-
1900. 1909. 1910. 1911. 1912.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. ..150,075 77,147 77,147 77,272 77,272
Liabilities (less cash
balances).. ..111,613 64,267 60,751 59,970 60,007
Premises, plant,
ere. .. ..141,535 89,857 90,965 83,196 86,776
Hotels .. .. 57,165 18,700 15,700 14,700 13,709
Stocks and debtors 76,809 54,851 59,202 68,333 77,588
Revenue .. .. 33,358 28,868 29,601 29,280 33,273
Expenses .. .. 22,377 22,499 22,026 21,950 17,-600
A very fine increase of profits is shown for the past
12 months. Looking at the last table it will be seen
that expenses have fallen very considerably, and that
isn’t a feature presented by many recent accounts.
The chances are that the reduction in this case is
dup to a smaller amount having been provided to
meet depreciation and similar standing charges on
account of the jump in Queensland property values.
It would be more comforting if that jump were not
due mainly to a borrowing boom. For the rest, a
beer war which had raged in Brisbane has been
ended, and profits have no doubt improved in con-
sequence. The least satisfactory feature of the ac-
counts is the lumping of goodwill with freeholds,
etc. This casts an aspersion on the reserves which,
in consequence, are branded as nominal in the table
with which these remarks began.
The Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Bris-
bane) :
Dividends and Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves.
1904 £lOOO £4221
1905 .. £2,307 Nil 1000 5528
1906 .. 800 Nil 5528 800
1907 .. 1,747 2J p.c. =£535 1012 1000
1908 .. 2,764 5.,, ~ 1331 1433 1000
1909 .. 4,477 5b ~ ~ 1586 2891 1000
1910 .. 6,585 (5b „ ~ 2248 4337 1000
1911 .. 4,274 6 ~ ~ 2761 1513 1000
1912 .. 11,305 7 b „ „ 3459 2846 6000
A spring in profits from £2307 in 1905 to £11,305
in 1912 looks very fine and large, but there is this
to be taken into account—in the former year the
capital was £16,025, whereas now it is £45,000.
Like most other things in Queensland, this co. had
a bad time —so bad, in fact, that when it put a wet
towel round its aching head and considered its assets,
it couldn’t see anything for it but to write down
its £1 shares to 4s. 6d. and its 15s. shares to 9d.
If it had deferred the painful job a little while
longer it might have thought that even that wasn’t
enough. Then Queensland put its nose to the
plough, and eschewed its old extravagant habits,
while Nature worked overtime at the task of restor-
ing the State’s prosperity. And there are few
countries in the world where Nature is such a
strenuous workwoman. To add to its chance this
co. got into better business hands, and so things
soon started to mend. Unfortunately for the look
of the column devoted to profits, a beer war raged
in Brisbane in 1910-11, and spoiled the look of the
figures for that year; but things are all right again,
and a profit is shown which, were it all available,
would be sufficient to pay a dividend of about 25
p.c. The wise old birds who now rule the roost
evidently don’t feel too sure that Queensland will
always have as much beer-money as it has got at
present, consequently they put by £2846 to pro-
vide for contingencies. This is shown as written
off, it being th.e company’s habit to swallow up
amounts put to this fund, presumably using them
to 1 write down assets. The next small table shows
a few other details:—
1905. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Capital . . .. £16,025 £33,750 £45,000 £45,000
Liabilities . . 21,819 28,424 21,945 26,794
Land, plant, goodwill
and properties . . 31,000 44,587 41,656 44,975
Stock ... ... 7,124 12,176 12,548 14,125
Book debts . . 5,826 11,182 15,864 22,612
Cash, etc 417 775 775 773
Gross profits . . 14,022 23,294 21,531 31,370
Management . . 11,715 16,709 17,257 20,065
Probably on account of the increased turnover,
along with the fact that the liabilities amount to
£26,000, the directors have now decided to create
another 100,000 shares of 4s. fid. each, two-thirds of
which it is proposed to issue forthwith at par to
holders of present shares. This will make the paid
capital £60,000, and there will be still 33,334
shares in reserve. The figures justify the issue.
The co. is not overweighted with pub property:
there appears to be only one such beer-pump on


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 S
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th dune, 1912 £9,258,750 10 7
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
REGULAR ACCOUNTS. FIXED AND LOW
CHARGES. ABSOLUTE SECURITY
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager
KYNOCH
SUCTION OAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane ; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney ;
McGLEW & CO., Adelaide ; M ALLOCH BROS.. Perth
+ CF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS.— Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.’
+ GF+ Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable' for
steam or water. To be obtained fxom principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
* * * *
WATER LEVELS.—Many painful accidents have
occurred through fracture of water gauge glasses on.
steam boilers, and various devices to prevent injury
to boiler attendants have been adopted. These,
however, are more or less objectionable, because
the clear view of the water-level is thereby ob-
scured. At last a practically unbreakable Gauge
Glass has been invented,_ namely, “BISHOP’S ADA-
MANT,” which will resist considerable pressure as
well as high and varying temperature. To be ob-
tained from Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., Engineers’ Factors,
315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * . *
A simple and continuous Vacuum Slimes Filter is
the “Wilfley.” It consists of a revolving drum,
which is partly submerged in the material to be
filtered. The drum, covered with filter-cloth, has a
vacuum pipe passing through it, by means of which
liquid and air are withdrawn by a vacuum pump.-
The filtered slime is removed by a simplet apparatus,
placed at or below the level of the pulp. Directly
the cake is removed the filter-cloth is re-immersed,
ready to receive a fresh cake. The residual liquid in
the slime cake is removed by distributing water over
the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing to the
fact that the filter is circular in form the work 'is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the drum. The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights of
this machine.* [2
Extract from The Insurance Record, London,
September 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in a
year, which was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE commends itself to every
mining engineer by reason of its immunity from
corrosion or rust, the ease with which it can be
moved from place to place, and its general economy
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain
(N.S.W.), and Footscray (Vic.), are the makers.*
* * * *
The mining world will be interested to learn that
the well-known specialists in winding and haulage
machinery, Messrs. M. B. Wild and Company, have
arranged with Haes and Eggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence
Street, to represent them in Australia. A very
special type of haulage gear is illustrated on page
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.* ?2
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock'
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories.
office; Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Coi.u son & Co., 483 Collins Street. Melbourne and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals: etc.*
Patents.— Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.). Meeh. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
the company’s books, and in these times, when the
tendency is to root out beer-pumps, the assets are
all the better for it.
* * -lb «
Melbourne Cope’s Creek, which, in the
latter half of 1911, paid two divs., amounting: to
£l5OO, on its capital of £12,500, was struck by the
prevailing drought in the first half of the current
year, and dividends wilted to nothing. After the
half-year ended the rains came, and there is no more
trouble about water. A more permanent trouble arose
from the depletion of the co.’s old ground, but a
scrap here and a scrap there have been secured, and
the eo.’s life has been thus prolonged. Future re-
sults are, however, a gamble, and the management
speaks only in the most general terms regarding the
new ground. For instance, “a lease of 16 acres is
being acquired. . .the greater part of which should
prove payable.” The co.’s finances are still fairly
solid. The surplus of liquid assets runs to about
£'2ooo.
If there is a slight expansion in the Cas-
silis (Vic.) bank overdraft, there is a compression
in the directors’ report. The drought is responsible
for this, as it cut off both power and profit, and
accordingly gave V. J. Saddler a chance to ease up
his proneness to adjectival language. What the
Cassilis needed first and last was development and
good recoveries from the accumulated heaps of resi-
dues. With the hydro-electric power works hung
up through dry weather, connections between the
six and seven and the seven and eight levels have
been improved. Odds and ends of jobs have been
carried out, with the result that cheaper work is
ahead, and there is a chance of the old mine once
again getting its nose above the sludge. Lilburne is
wrestling with the problem of the residues, and
figures that fine grinding, with filter press cyanide
work, will run rings round roasting and chlorina-
tion methods, over which more than one expert got
into a horrible tangle. Well, anyone who throws
himself into Cassilis must have a big heart. Suc-
cess at the Cassilis means heaps to an out-of-the-way
corner of Gippsland, where mining has had to be
forced like a hot-house plant. Had the eo. the cash
it could help a dozen promising but starving little
cos. in the surrounding hills, now that it has cheap
power and has solved the metallurgical problem.
Without cash the road must be rocky. The biggest
boulder to shift is the £5OOO overdraft.
* * -X- *
South Langi Logan was the last of the
Ararat (Vic.) field to stir up. All because its shaft
hit on to wash. It is always nice to do this, pro-
vided the wash doesn’t burst up the shaft and smash
things generally, as was the case with the old Langi
Logan. A heap more precautions are taken nowa-
days about such trifles. The gold that was got
doesn’t mean anything to the co., for the shaft is too
far from the deep ground. It would take a Madame
Berry to stir enthusiasm over anything of the sort
after the smelly experience of other strikes of the
kind. More solid material is wanted to buttress the
market than a patch of wash in a shaft hundreds of
feet away from where the lead lies. Investors ought
not to be lead into drawing wrong deductions, and
the cold facts are, therefore, put at their disposal.
After a week of solid thought and a fort-
night of hard cogitation, a problem remains un-
solved over the results obtained from the Cathcart
(Vic.) clean-up of 61foz. from 35 fathoms, and the
next of from 17 fathoms. The first wash-up
called forth an explicit statement that the dirt “came
from different narrow streaks passed through....
making it hard to judge its value.” Still, the beam
went over 20z., which is good stuff. When, a week
later, the 6oz. nick was reached, there was no pub-
lication of reports. The weary man now asks the
office boy with the big diamond ring why this in-
difference. Is he up against the Wages Board or is
the Wages Board up against him? If so, why did
he send out word about the narrow streaks and let
the rich streaks sparkle unannounced ? If the office
boy isn’t out fishing or at the semi-final of a motor
race, he will help a dreary market by throwing out a
slab of news to illumine these points.
* ■* ■* *
Johnson’s Reef (Bendigo) is doing well
out of the stone, that is being, crushed at the No. 3
shaft on the Derby line. John Veale is sufficiently
sanguine to hold that he has four years’ work ahead
there. To think that the years of dreary call-making
could have been avoided if only the Board had had
the No. 3 shaft re-opened ! But what paltry work to
treat only 6000 or 7 000 tons a half-year! It is
cheery news to hear that some effort is" to be made
to get up to better figures. The strain on the Ben-
digo mine intellect of adding up whether it is
cheaper to yank dirt out or dawdle on in the leisurely
way to save the town, has been too great in the past
to be faced. But hard times are developing the
strength of the cerebellum. So, if No. 1 mine of the
Johnson’s yields- a quota of crushing dirt, and John
Veale has his way, he’ll rattle up his stamps to better
things. Strange to see Johnson’s shares, after having
been forfeited for unpaid calls, now putting up a
good dividend record.
Tougkah Compound (Siam) dredged
32,750 cub. yards during the first half of August for
32 tons Bewt. of tin oxide. The average is 2.2161 b.
of oxide, so it. is nearly double the average for the
half-year to March 31. Doubling the yield is just
as effective in increasing the profit as doubling'the
price would be. For the half-year to March 31 con-
centrates sold at £lO9 Per ton, but for April a yield
of 32 tons was officially valued at £3600, so it
seems fair to assume that the average price this half-
year will be £ll2 per ton. On April 18 the London
quotation for tin was £197 15s. Costs in April
amounted to £BOO. Allowing £lOOO for July, 52
tons of tin oxide would mean a surplus of £4824
After providing for the dividend of Is. paid in
August, there would be a substantial sum left. The
limited area and the comparatively low-grade wash-
dirt in portions of the compound somewhat limit
the scope of dredging operations, so a few good
yields must not be taken- as a -general average for
years ahead.
* * * *
Tongkali Harbor Tin Co. (Siam) is to
add a new dredge to its fleet,- making six altogether.
The yield for six months to March 31 was 794 tons
13cwt., but looking at the output of tin oxide, week
by week, for a long time past it cannot be expected
that the yield for the half-year ending in September
will equal the previous term. Still an effort will
doubtless be made to have a good clean up for Sep-
tember. It is doubtful if the monthly yield during
the current half-year will average much more than
90 tons, compared with 132 tons per month for the
first half of the fiscal year. During the latter
period no less than 1,647,634 cub. yards were dredsred
for 1,778,560 pounds of tin oxide. Such an enor-
mous quantity as this must have an exhaustive effect
on any submerged tin lead.
When last heard from, Mount Morgan
was smelting with four furnaces, and had managed
by means of an auxiliary up-cast to get rid of sul-
phur fumes. Details of the smelting for July show
that 32,130 tons of ore were smelted, comprising
19,989 tons from Mount Morgan (674 tons copper),
12,127 tons from Many Peaks (171 tons copper),
and 14 tons purchased ore (two tons copper) ; total,
847 tons copper. Mount Morgan smelter has a
capacity equal to, if not larger than, that of Mount
Lyell, which, however, smelts more ore per furnace
than Morgan. Pvritic smelting always shows to
advantage in this respect, for practically the whole
of the charge is counted as ore. At Morgan a very
large quantity of limestone is used, which is not the
case with Lyell. Many Peaks ore, in July, only aver-
aged 1.4 p.c. copper.
North Smithfield (Gympie, Queensland)
crushed 434 tons for £2563, and follows that up by
a much better return —300 tons for 8560 z. of
smelted gold (value about £3000). The slate coun-
try above 683 ft. carries a rich reef 12in. thick in
four back stopes.
Mount Elliott (Q.) shares lately ran up
to £8 55., bringing the total to over £1,200,000. It
would take an average profit of £2O On 60,000 tons
of copper to cover the market value, but there are
other considerations in boom times —for instance,
the chance of floating some of the leases recently
acquired into subsidiary cos. Ordinary brands of
copper averaged £63 for the 12 months ending June
30, during which period Mount Elliott produced
5286 tons of blister copper. It had also a large
stock of metal on hand at the end of the previous
year, so it has been realising on its goods under fav-
orable conditions. The present excitement is due to
the visit of Manager Corbould to London, the annual
report, and the numerous copper properties acquired.
The Hampden Consols, the Trafalgar arid the Sehvyn
appear to be developing on sound lines. At the Con-
sols the south level at 250 ft. is in 380 ft., with 7 p.c.
ore over a width of 4ft. Two prospecting shafts at
the Trafalgar are following a rich lode. The deepest
is down 79ft. Then there is the Native Companion
and King Solomon, Lady Fanny and Castle Mountain,
some of them options and some purchased for cash.
Mount Cuthbert (Q.) copper shares came
into the market with a swing when it was certain
that the railway from Cloncurry was to be pro-
ceeded with. The first section takes the line 42
miles to the northern bank of the Dugald River.
Distance from that point to Mount Cuthbert is, ap-
proximately, 33 miles. .Perhaps the construction of
the first section will bring Mount Cuthbert deben-
tures into better favor, and supply the co. with cash
to sink deeper below the 350 ft. level, which has been
extended more than 500 ft. to the south —following
the eastern wall of the formation—on a strong quartz
lode. The 150 ft. and 250 ft. levels contain the best
ore; but, unlike most of the Cloncurry mines,
Cuthbert has very little ore rich enough to ship to
the smelting works. The reserves are estimated at
141,400 tons, containing 12,632 tons of copper and
£15,120 worth of gold.
* * * *
The Vulcan (Q.) recent threepenny divi-
dend brings the total to £3 3s. Bd. per share, which,
calculated to the tune of 264,000 shares, gives some
idea of the past deeds of the patient old warrior.
For July, 643 tons of ore found daylight, which pro-
duced 21 tons 12cwt. of tin concentrates, equal to
£2048 odd. The ore at 1050 ft. is patchy, with some
good stuff, but most of it on the low-grade side. The
development of the 750 ft. level compensates for it
significantly. There No. 3 winze has been sunk a
full depth of 35ft., all on payable ore, while a 10ft.
rise has the same fortunate complaint.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps (Charters Towers) has
five additional stampers employed, and the crushing
now going through is said to be looking' well. The
reef in No. 5 level, after pinching to a few inches,
has widened again to 3ft., but the unofficial report
doesn’t say whether the stone is in two sections or
in a solid reef. Charters Towers has a habit of
simply adding the width of a vein on the hanging-
wall to that on the footwall, though there is often
a quantity of barren formation between the two.
The warden’s report is very optimistic about B.
Deeps. It states the height and length of payable
stone proved as 300 ft. each way, and the width of the
reef is averaged at 4ft. On this basis it is calcu-
lated that there are 26,800 tons of stone, containing
£199,325 (£7 7s. 3d. per ton). Against that there
are 150,000 shares, valued in the market at
£225,000 (30s. per share). One has to look back
a very long time to find a Charters Towers reef
crushing 26,000 tons for an average of anything
like £7 per ton. The average of the best mines
near the Deeps is about £4 per ton. B. Block has
crushed a total of 163,163 tons, value £538,922;
N. B. Freehold, 86,073 tons, worth £43,615. These
two mines are neighbors of the Deeps. Total divi-
dends: B. Block, £81,250; Freehold, £116,250;
Mills’ United, £637,500.
* * * *
Brilliant P.C. (Charters Towers) con-
tinues to raise good-looking mineral stone from the
bottom of the . old winze, 200 and odd feet east of
the Freehold’s boundary. The trial lot put through
when the stone was first struck averaged over loz.
per ton. The Stockholm mine, which belongs to the
Brilliant P.C., is crushing an average of between
£ 4 and £ 5 per ton. The last monthly lot was
667 tons for £3OOO 10s.
* * * *
Brilliant St. George (Charters Towers)
crushed 51 tons for an average of £9 11s. 9d. per
ton. This was from close to Kelly’s Queen Block
boundary. Kelly’s itself crushed 301 tons for an
average of £2 7s. 4d. per ton, which means that the
co. will have to make a call, for Kelly’s has a lot
of development in hand on the St. George reef. This
reef may, perhaps, redeem its fortunes. In olden days
some rich shoots were worked on the St. George, in
the ground adjoining Kelly’s.
* * * *
Queen Bee copper (near'Cobar, N.S.W.)
is smelting on a small scale, which generally proves
expensive. The most encouraging prospects in the
mine are in No. 5 south level, which is in 336 ft.
from the crosscut, and has a face of ore the full
width of the drive worth 4 p.c. Much better ore
was obtained from the winze below this level, to-
wards which No. 6 level has advanced within a few
feet. The output of copper is very small for a big
co.
* * * *
Kyloe copper (N.S.W.), for the year to
June 29, raised 17,650 tons of ore, assaying 5.77 p.c.
copper, which compares rather poorly with 20,677
tons averaging 8.4 p.c. taken out of the mine for
the 12 months ending June. 1911. Still Kyloe, after
allowing £3984 for depreciation, came through with
a profit of £1489, and with the money in hand from
the previous year is able to carry forward a credit
balance of. £8543. Diminishing ore reserves, and
the necessity for more development, stand in the
way of a dividend ; but it is some encouragement to
know that Kyloe is shipping high-grade copper con-
centrates.
* * * *
The lodide Mineral Hill leases (N.S.W.)
have been reported on by J. H. Fawcett in favor-
able terms, and a co. with a capital of £150.000,
in £lO shares, is to be floated in Sydney. There
will be 85Q0 contributing shares, 5300 fully-paid,
and 1200 partly-paid. The ore reserves are estimated
at 12,500 tons, containing approximately £8 worth
of metals (total £100,000), all of which is above
the 60ft. level and within an area measuring 150 ft.
long by 30ft. wide. The bulk of the ore is below
shipping grade, for the total mining and metallur-
gical costs run to £8 per ton. Such high costs are
not to be wondered at, for this claim is 42 miles
from Condobolin railway station and 335 miles from
Sydney. As £8 per ton is equal to the value of a
ton of 60 p.c. lead ore with the base metal at £2O,
the ore will have to be rich in precious metals to
pay for shipment to Cockle Creek. Lead carbonate
ore of similar grade to that shipped by Block 14
(Broken Hill) could not stand costs at £8 per
ton. This show, as it stands, may be a sound
enough proposition, but its future depends very con-
siderably on an extension of the railway in its
direction.
Occidental Gold, outside Oobar (N.S.W.),
reports for its half-year a further loss of £2566, but
expects to stop the rot when the new plant is in full
swing. This is nearing completion. The ore crushed
was 21,834 tons; receipts totalled £24,043, against
expenses, £26,609 (including depreciation, £1055).
Building operations hampered the regular work, but
during the last month of the half-year the two tube
mills got going, and satisfactory results are claimed
to have been obtained. The extraction from the
slimes is said to have jumped up to 87 p.c. The sand
plant is practically closed down. The power plant
has been largely increased, electric motors being used
for the mill. The cash position has naturally suf-
fered, but there still remains £12,422 to go on with.
Liabilities are a shade more bulky, with £12,719.
Ore reserves are estimated to keep the mill going 18
months. A winze, 30ft. below the bottom level (No.
5), shows ore going 2joz. per ton, but this is a
spasm that is not likely to continue long. The
troublesome copper is more likely to increase than the
gold, but this is not mentioned.
* * * *
Payne’s Find (W.A.) is turning out just
as pars appearing on this page indicated it would.
The best returns from small parcels during the re-
cent run of the State mill ranged from an ounce
downwards, which was much less than local boom-
sters reckoned, and as no doubt all the ore treated
was picked, the next batch of crushings will prob-
bably average less. Rich patches certainly exist on
the field, but once again let it be said that indica-
tions do not point to permanency of values at
depth.
* * # *
It was said on this page some time ago
that the posit on of the Associated (W.A.) was
decayed, and official figures just to hand prove that
it is so. The other day it was announced that the
probable ore reserve was 500,000 tons, ranging in
value from 21s. to 295. Since then the annual
statement of accounts has come along,, and this
shows last year’s cut-fine costs, including develop-
ment, to be 275. As someone remarked at the meet-
ing, for all the good shareholders get out of it, or
for all the good they are ever likely to get out of it,
operations might just as well have been suspended,
and the co. wound up. It is obvious on the figures
quoted that the outlook for profitable mining is
hopeless, but with a faith worthy of a better cause
the management struggles on.
* * * *
Attempts are being made to boom Chaf-
fers’ (W.A.), on the off-chance of the Horseshoe No.
2 shoot ultimately getting there. “Over three months
ago,” remarks a local paper, “the Horseshoe cabled
that the lode in question was sft. wide and worth
14dwt. at 150 ft. from the boundary.” Suspicion is
then aroused by the additional remark that the
scripholder who can hold, and doesn’t, is mad.
Nothing is said about poor ore having been met with
at about 100 ft. from the dividing line. Which reminds
The Bulletin that one of the worst features of
Westralian gold mining is the press.
■' * * *
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : It makes me sick
to see the_ way in which, day after day, bad mines
are proclaimed good, rogues praised, and lies sown
broadcast about new finds in this country. Bull-
finch was responsible for a good deal of this sort
of thing and now Kurnalpi is gett ; ng attention. “A
second Kalgoorlie” is one tale. “A new creator of
riches” is another. “Bound to turn out well at
depth” is a third, and there are others equally
absurd and misleading. One would-be oracle says
that. the Government ought to do some diamond
drilling. Boring is all very well in cases where a
search is being made in an established mine, for
the continuation of a known ore body in deeper
ground or for parallel bodies, but few persons out-
side a lunatic asylum would advocate putting an inch
hole down here and there on a new field. Looking
for the needle in the haystack would be a mere cir-
cumstance to hunting for values in this way. If
any of the Kurnalpi shepherds have any faith in the
value of their holdings, let them show it by getting
to work.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) shares, influenced,
no doubt, by the,-60s. paid in dividends in six months,
were skied to £6O. The market is now easier at
£52, because wages are rising, and last half-year’s
costs (4s. 7id.) are pretty certain to be exceeded
during the current term. As w 7 ill be noted from the
monthly mill returns, it often takes 20,000 tons of
crushing stuff to run out 100 tons of clean concen-
trates (66 p.c. to 67 p.c. metal). A rise of 6d. per
ton in costs makes a difference of (roughly) £5OO
per month, and the directors will not be slow to fall
on that excuse to reduce dividends, which, in the
face of a lot of necessary expenditure on plant, have
been dangerously near the net earnings. Last half-
year the net earnings were £42,856 and the divi-
dends £36,000, and the output of tin oxide from
the mine 600 tons; so net profit is at the rate of
£7l, and dividends at £6O per ton of black tin
oxide.
* * * *
Last year (1911) Wallaroo and Moonta
(S.A.) produced 6079 tons of copper, at an average
cost of £5l 12s. sd. Those conditions figure re-
markably well with copper at its present price, but
it is unlikely that costs will be so low this year, for
wages have a rising tendency, and this co. isn’t pro-
ducing so much copper precipitate from surface re-
sidues as it used to do. The old tailings have been
heavily drawn upon. In September, 1911, Wallaroo
and Moonta paid a dividend of Is., but for the quar-
ter ending September, 1912, it pays 2s. No doubt
speculators expect an increase in the dividend if the
high price of copper is sustained, but the co. has
had to do more development to open up deeper levels.
This old concern doesn’t advertise its month’s output
and value like Mount Morgan, and it has, throughout
its long life, had very little to say about ore re-
serves. It has paid £2,119,250.
* IT * *
“Diaranu” : Still one more valuable dis-
covery of natural wealth has been made in Papua.
Early in September, 1911, a find of oil was
made on the Vailala River by Lett and Thomas,
resident planters on the river. The first indication
was found near the village of Opa, some few
miles from the mouth of the river, in the form
of several mud and inflammable gas springs. The
first find was followed up, and resulted in the
discovery of further springs some 30 miles up the
river, not far from a village known as Akauda.
The prospectors took a few samples of the mixture,
and hurried to Melbourne to obtain any reward or
prospecting claim that they might be able to get
the Australian Government to hand over. Meanwhile
the Government of the Territory has requisitioned
the services of J. E. Came, Assistant Government
Geologist of N.S.W., who has reported on the dis-
covery as follows: —“Getting the natives to point
out any neighboring rock outcrops, we followed down
an adjacent creek to near its junction with the river
(Vailala), a few chains from which, where gas
bubbles were seen rising through the water, I was
fortunate in locating crude petroleum oil seeping
from the rocks in the creek-bed. With a tomahawk
and a small geological hammer we succeeded in
loosening sufficient of the bed, rock (sandstone and
mudstone) to enable the included oil to rise to the
surface of the water, sometimes in a continuous
stream of globules, and by skimming the surface
to nil several small bottles with crude oil. As the
rocks are fairly dense, and in the ease of sandstone,
hard, the oil must be under considerable pressure
to force it to the surface through fine joint and
cleavage planes. These rocks strike N. 70 degrees
k , and S. 70 degrees W., and dip N. 20 degrees
W. at 26 degrees. Following this strike across the
river two days later, I was again fortunate in finding-
crude oil seeping from ironstone in a creek bank
a short distance from the river, where no defined gas
emanations were observable.” Manv claims have
been pegged around the sites, and the Government
has published the terms under which prospecting
can be done. Applicants are permitted to mark out
a block of 300 acres, which they have exclusively
for two years, at the end of which time at least
400 ft. of boring must be - completed. They must
commence work within six months of the granting
of their application. Should payable oil be struck,
applicants may apply for a lease of one or more
blocks not exceeding five acres, leases to be given
for terms not exceeding 20 years. The Government
is to receive a royalty of 5 p.c. of the net profits,
and will have the right to purchase the output of
the bores at current market rates. As a source
from which to draw supplies of oil-fuel for the
Australian Navy, the discovery has value, because
the wells would be right on the coast, and the diffi-
culties of loading would be almost nil. With an
inexhaustible supply of good oil, Papua should rapid! v
come to the front, and even the machinations of
the Standard Oil Trust should not harm it <tf the
Australian Government see that proper restrictions
are made to prevent any dummying of the leases
Given good management and sensible development,
there is no reason why Papua should not have as
good wells as those at Batoum, on the Black Sea.
At the same time, this scribe would not recommend
people to put much money into the venture until
the find has been further proved by boring. The
country is covered with dense tropical jungle, so
the work of projecting will be slow, but even the
thickest* scrub will yield up its secrets to the axe.
The great advance made in the construction of In-
ternal Combustion Engines has now been further
demonstrated by the fact of Petrol, Benzine, Kero-
sene and heavy Oil Locomotives being brought into
daily and successful commercial use. The machines
are thoroughly reliable, and are cheaper in very
many insta.nces than steam or electric locomotives
Messrs. Ironside, Son and Dyckerhoff, of London],
have supplied a great number of their famous “New
Century” locomotives nearly all over the world, and
their machines are even working continuously and
safely in “gassy” coal mines. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne, will be pleased to supply further par-
ticulars. *


Under
Royal
Warrant
ħ
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
.CHAMPAGNE
'larJeslleidsie*
Heims
PI-iom
BRAND
h
Renowned
STUHR’
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
BUCHANAN’S
BlacK White.
ĥ
ħ
h
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Septembee 2, 1912.
My Dear Aeinx, —
In the garden at Admiralty House, white
azaleas held up their thirsty mouths to the
heavy rainfall the other afternoon. Gor-
geous red geraniums—you will have noticed
that the geranium is in fashion —winked
their white eyelids under a large green um-
brella of mere shrub, being sun-lovers who
go to bits in the frequent torrents of August.
The Women’s Handicrafts Exhibition lurked
high and dry inside, and the wet end of the
show was not overflowing with the ardent
buyer. The Admiralty lady offered her
rooms for the show, in the goodness of her
heart and the inexperience of her commercial
outlook. Kirribilli Point is too far from the
city. The madding crowd likes to hear its
hoof ring on the pavement.
There is a bleak and aching void between
a garden party at Admiralty House, at
which Society (uncommonly careful of tak-
ing an eighteenpenny cab) spends nothing,
and a show of work at the same address,
which expects Society to part with its not-
too-ready cash. In town, the plain citizen
would have turned in to look at, and cer-
tainly buy, many of the exhibits. The butler
was not for sale. I fancy his price must be
above pearl ornaments. At four or so each
afternoon some junior understudy sent a
mystic message concerning tea. But the
hospitable cares of the slender Admiralty
lady were mostly cast, like plum cake, on
the face of the waters. On Thursday after-
noon the wind scampered round the chimney
pots, and the rain blotted out the scenery.
The dense mass of persons who were absent
from a good but too remote show ought, to
be a dreadful warning to the next eruption
of the Women’s Handicrafts Society.
As I write (Monday) Mrs. James Ashton,
Mrs. Garland and Miss C. Stephen are sit-
ting with enthusiasm on a meeting in
Paling’s concert hall. They hope to hatch
a benefit concert for the Female School of
Industry. This ferocious name for a meek,
long-suffering charity has come down from
the bad old days of 1826, and has the crack
of a whip in its tail. In the era when Gov-
ernor Darling’s wife founded the school,
“for the maintenance and training of female
children of poor parents in general domestic
duties,” female charity infants wore hor-
rible garments of melancholy brown wincey,
and heavy clogs on their feet. They dragged
their juvenile locks severely off their fore-
heads, at the age of from five to nine years,
and knew the Shorter Catechism backwards
and sideways and upside down. I under-
stand they are still examined in Scripture,
but modern domestic science takes the place
of the old rule of thumb food-boiling. Fe-
male infants remain under the eye of the
matron till they climb the steep ascent of 16
years. They are then ready for the battle
of the Boast and Boiled. The institution is
toiling along the stony track of Impecuni-
osity, and wants help.
At last year’s meeting of the Shipwreck
Belief Society, in the local Town Hall,
heroic adults were almost knocked out by
babies in knickerbockers. The dogged de-
termination of these infants to save the lives
of persons whose age and size gave them a
presumptive right to spank their rescuers
(for interfering with the business arrange-
ments of Fate) was only equalled by their
Sandow muscles. This year’s medal rally
was less remarkable than the 1911 upheaval
of young children in w T atery places. Only one
infant of six years (Albert Sommerlad) got
away with a silver medal. Chief Justice Cullen
trimmed the balance-sheet with the usual re-
marks, and Premier McGowen offered some
suitable prawn and salt-water observations.
St. Vincent’s Hospital ball will occur in
the Town Hall on September 10. The de-
coration committee is wrinkling its fore-
head up into its front hair in search of new
and extensive ideas in floral trimming. Mrs.
J. C. Willliamson left a trail of good works
behind her, to be hung out, as gal-
lery attractions, by Mr. Major and other
local upholders of the J.C.W. firm. Tickets
at 10s. 6d. (there are no champagne tops
to this good old-fashioned charity hop) are
reported to be selling like the sovereigns
which were put on the market at 6d. each.
When Wattle Day broke into bud about
three years ago, in that learned tomb of
archaic parchments, the Boyal Society’s
rooms, two objections stood up after the
manner of a kangaroo with its back to a
tree. One was that people would get into
the habit of tearing the baby blossom out of
its cradle. The second was that the wattle
could not stand for all Australia, as it only
shakes its yellow head in certain parts of
the eastern States. But botanist Maiden
wiped his scientific boots on the notion that
Australia’s shower of gold in bloom is as
local as the parish pump. It is a' fairly
widespread vegetable, and by wise tree-plant-
ing its orbit can be much further extended.
Objection number one then crept into its
lair. Somebody murmured a line snatched
from a Gordon reverie. “Oh, gaily sings the
bird, and the wattle boughs are stirr’d,” and
the thing was done.
Wattle-planting, as a universal habit, has
a weak patch in its fresh-turned sod. The
beauteous timber only lives for seven years
or thereabouts. Centennial Park will have
to be re-wattled in 1919, when the 1912
striplings will have passed into the dead-
wood series.
Three pedagogues from England—-Mr.
G. H. Archibald, Miss Archibald and Miss
Backhouse —are either pulling us by the
ear, or they sincerely believe in their amaz-
ing pose as Forerunners of Something New.
The art of expounding to your grandmother
how to suck eggs is supposed to have bluffed
that simple soul into the belief that the
urchin who performed the operation was an
inventor, and had patented the egg as his
personal discovery. Probably the lecturing
triplet are entirely sincere. They must have
a profound belief in their own apostleship
and a hearty contempt for the intelligence
of their audiences in a land which is, ot
course, very remote from Bourneville, where
the teaching Archibalds and chocolate sol-
diers come from.
On Saturday afternoon the drab old Pro-
testant Hall seethed with moderately young
children, who were to be demonstrated on
by Miss Backhouse. Before they surged
into the building, in a blithesome march (the
pretence of being outrageously happy on the
part of teacher and pupils is part of the
system), the audience straggled into its seat.
Mostly parsons and teachers, with an outer
layer of casuals, lay readers and very young
men with overhanging foreheads and serious
neckties. “The Organisation of Sunday
Schools” was the startling theme. Miss
Archibald, who smiled suddenly and for no
apparent reason (except as part of the sys-
tem) at frequent intervals in her brief dis-
course, warned the audience that the doors
would be “irrevocably closed,” and requested
ladies in the front seats to remove then-
hats. After a hurried tearing off of millin-
ery the youngsters trooped into their seats,
and the doors were closed and bolted.
The Protestant Hall looks too dead inside
to catch anything so fast as a sudden fire,
so the clanging bolt shot into its socket
without alarming the listening ear. Some-
times a loud banging incited one of the
apostles to creep stealthily to the dungeon
portal (which leaked daylight through its
panels) and apply one eye to a crack. When
the person outside persistently hammered
on the fortress and refused to be deprived of
the joys within, the person inside stuck a
card through the available slit. Presumably
the words written on the document were
“Get work.” It was pushed back with such
violence once or twice that an apostle in a
frock coat, etc., remarked that the persons
outside seemed “very much annoyed.”
Miss Backhouse, who demonstrated on the
juvenile brain-pan, is a tall, able-bodied
young woman, with the over-worked smile
which is obviously part of the. system. David
was the chief subject of the Bible lesson. He
was illustrated in one or two indifferent-
colored prints. The questions were as old
as Ur of the Chaldees. Here is a hurried
impression of a Bourneville Sunday Scrip-
ture meeting. After the youngsters had been
instructed to say a little prayer to them-
selves for anything they wanted, the teacher
plunged into the personal habits of Jona-
than’s father: —
“And what did David want?”
“A knife,” said one scholar.
I wondered if this boy had prayed for a
pocket-knife with a tin-opener and a cork-
screw and four blades. Teacher, running
her eye along the serried legion of hands
thrust into the air, got on the track of
David’s water supply. Having dragged forth
the thrilling information that the sacred
shepherd was rounding up his flock in dry
weather, she asked: “And where did David
look for water?”
“In his water-bottle,” said one pupil who
wouldn’t commit himself to the extent of a
creek. Teacher then dodged David to the
edge of the Psalms, and wandered off to
Robin Hood, log houses and the afternoon
collection.
“And tvlicit shall we do with our money?”
asks the perpetually smiling teacher. “Send
Bibles to the aborigines,” said a small Miss
Jellyby, with a row of very stiff corkscrew
curls tickling her eyebrows. The collection
amounted to about ss. After a hurried dis-
cussion, it was decided to buy a present for
the Children’s Hospital. “Longfellow or
Wordsworth’s poems,” suggested an infant
Pardiggle. “Shakspeare,” urged another
ripe young scholar. The system, from
Bourneville is reminiscent of Mrs. Pipchin’s
pleasant Sunday afternoons, and ought to
turn out young prigs by the gross. Inci-
dentally, it recalls the Sunday, school that
Tom Sawyer attended, where the superin-
tendent’s boots turned up at the toes, and
Tom said frankly that the first two disciples
were David and Goliath.
Preliminary notices concerning the length,
breadth and chest measurement of the
Women’s Work section in the next Easter
Show are soaking through the local press.
For several years this section has been
steadily rolling or sliding down-hill. It was
badly housed, and the stitchery looked tossed
and crowded together before it met the pub-
lic gaze. At last April’s great autumn rally
of horns and hoofs, the female ambition to
shine in seams and gussets had nearly
dropped dead. The standard of exhibits
had fallen to the level of the uppermost
Darling in the last days of the Old Man
Drought. Criticism, or some other electric
spark has galvanised the Royal Rural
authorities into new life. Glowing fore-
words tell of a women’s industrial depart-
ment which will supply abundant room for
the first prize goods, and for the goods that
are highly commended, and the goods that
“also ran.” Then there will be elbow room
for the tea, and the bun will have space
wherein to swing a cat, and there may even
be a glass wherein this wearied twentieth
century may look at its back hair, and
assure itself that all is well in this best ot
all possible worlds.
An avalanche of private dances will
descend on this clachan in or about race
week. Frantic rumors have been tearing
the air re the usual Australian Club call.
The landslide of information is to the effect
that dancing men may be overwhelmed with
two moderately small club dances instead ot
one large rotund ball. The private hop is
leaping to the fore, for the exclusive habits
of our Worst Society make that institution
tend more and more to flee from the vulgar
and numerous eye.
That bright-eyed, alert little woman, Mrs.
Jack London, dropped a letter to a Sydney
friend the other mail. At date of writing
the London duet were humming a deep-sea
chanty off the Horn. “We’ve been aboard
this four-masted steel ship, Dirigo, 116 days
from Baltimore, after spending the winter
in New York. We expect to be in Seattle
in another month (end of July), a long
passage, but we love the sea. The only land
we’ve seen these 116 days was Gape Horn.
Sailors seldom ‘lay eyes on it,’ _so we were
particularly luckv to get a glimpse. A
nautical friend, however, tells me that sailors
often see the Horn. The trouble is that
they stay there.
A London paper on the look-out for snappy
items for its perambulating camera, recently
ran a “white wedding” to the church door-
step. The bridal pair are mentioned as "fol-
lowing a custom of their country.” As a
fact, the Australian ’groom, in the southern
half of this continent, who turns out_ in
white with his male supporters clad in simi-
lar tropic lingerie, is an uncommon exhibit
in dressy circles. In mid-summer here he
climbs into much the same garb as a Lon-
doner does, when he stamps up the aisle m
that long-established British institution,
the sombre frock coat; and propounds
the indeterminate sad-colored tubes on
his legs. His black-silk tile he fur-
tively conceals in some handy place
till the “Wedding March” struts across the
organ. Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Sharpe—said to
be of Melbourne- —were the bridal pair (pro-
fusely illustrated) who headed the proces-
sion. It looked like an inter-State tennis
tournament with the parson as umpire.
July 8 was the date. Obviously, it had
dodged the English wet-match rainfall, for
only one member of the party had an um-
brella, and the white walking gentleman
looked bone dry.
An' enthusiastic Anglo-Indian named
Wayman has been stalking these shores, as
a preliminary to a tourist hunt next year.
Wayman is reported to be as keen as a new
knife, and he hopes to catch the Australian
earth-trotter at this end next year. The
Man from Ceylon represents the Tourist
Bureau of that spicy island, and he wants
to haul the local sightseer off to the cinna-
mon gardens beside the coast, and the tea-
caddy hills beyond Colombo.
Mrs. M. Forrest, the Queensland scribe,
celebrated her recent holiday in this town
by a prolonged argument with an influenza
germ. She resumed her usual health last
week, and took the overland trail to Bris-
bane on Saturday.
Mr. Sydney Philips, of St. Canice, Dar-
ling Point, is packing up for a trip to the
islands of the early-rising Japanee. Ihe
Philips rooftree, as I mentioned the other
day, is let for six months to the Edward
Noyes family.
Mrs. Louis Henderson (Double Bay) is
gathering together a large collection of
friends, countrymen, etc., to give the glad
hand of welcome to her sisters, Mrs. Bon-
thorne and Miss Bud Neill. They have fled
greatly in foreign parts, and they frequently
smote the Swiss glacier with an alpenstock
without damaging the scenerv. Yat someone
has declared that Switzerland is really run
as an outdoor show by J. C. Williamson,
and that the cardboard mountains are put
up by his scene-shifters in the spring, and
removed in the autumn. I should think it
would be dangerous to hit a country like
that hard with an alpenstock..
When does a perpetual curate cease to be
perpetual, I wonder? The Bev. Wilfred
Gore-Brown, whose parent used to be an
Excellency in Maoriland, cut his clerical
gaiters as a perpetual curate in England.
Thence he glided over to Boer-land, and re-
cently emerged with full-grown wings of
laundered white muslin, as the first Bishop
of Kimberley and adjacent mineral pad-
docks.
The white house, with tiny brown shingles
as window eaves, is the latest fashion in
suburban architecture on the expensive
shores of our best water-fronts. Most of
the new walls are so blazing white that they
would make the family ghost turn smoke
grey with envy, if he chanced to blow that
wav on a moonlit night. The long arm of the
builder and bricklayer has been at last re-
moved from the pale white homestead of the
O’Gorman Hughes. A pink cushion now
blushes through a lattice window that
faces the tram-line, and the owners have
been in possession for some weeks. The
gabled roof is under the shoulder of the hill
that melts away into Woollahra Point.
The Glaciarium has ceased to freeze for
skaters till next May. A complimentary
skating party of mixed sports to manager
Dunbar Poole closed the Gardens of Allah-
abad with a loud snap.
Roller skating still smites the polished
floor of the Imperial Roller Rink in Wil-
liam-street. Manager James Bendrodt was
peacefully taking the air at the top of his
imperial marble steps the other afternoon.
His occupation as pusher-out of undesirable
“pussons” has passed into the limbo of
things no longer wanted. The season rolls
on for another seven weeks with a dazzling
roll at its far end. After that, I presume
the placid young man with the pronounced
chin and capable hands will climb into a
hollow log or some other summer retreat.
Exasperating persons who give puzzle
parties are very fond of asking, “Where do
all the pins go to?” and other nerve-racking
questions. Why doesn’t someone work up
a new riddle and floor the company with
this problem: “Where do all the skating
managers go to when they shed their skates?
Do they hide in refrigerating plants or drift
along as summer boarders at Jenolan?”
Pianist Spencer Clay, who is generally
observed on the horizon a month or two
ahead of John McCormack, recently dropped
into this city. He’s some pounds avoirdu-
pois closer to the word “fat” than usual, and
blames the Australian climate. Clay’s spare
frame can stand an increase of flesh, for his
swallow-like darts up and down this planet
trained him to the size of a half-grown
McCormack shadow. The coming event is
a year or so ahead. Clay and H. N. South-
well are at present knocking their wits
together as joint directors of the only John’s
concert tour of Australasia, which begins in
Sydney on the doorstep of the October race
meeting, 1913.
An acquaintance who met Paderewski and
his commanding officer (Mrs. Pad.) on the
way from Switzerland to Paris reports all s
well with the long staccato locks. They are
as lengthy and electric as ever, and show
no signs of moulting. The matinee girl’s
raids in these parts once threatened to
pluck the summit of Paderewski as bare as
a marble. But his lynx-eyed lady is alleged
to be a battering-ram and round-tower of
defence against Continental collectors of
.lion’s manes, claws, autographs or other
valuable bric-h-brac.
Lottie Dearn is hurriedly swallowing a
few hearty snacks of German before start-
ing for Leipsic Conservatorium and the
Only Way to snatch a bursary or piano-
double forte scholarship. The clever young-
ster’s sister sets out, fiddle in hand, to keep
one eye on Lottie in Leipsic, and the other
on her own bow and bridge. The harmoni-
ous Dearns leave this port on October 2.
“Five Little Songs of Love” (music by
Isabel Varney) have been roosting in my
humble official pigeon-holes for the last
week or two, waiting for a vacant plot of
paper. The young singer who likes a tear-
drop in her lay will find a whole shower in
“A Lament” —a drawing-room dirge for a
wet Saturday evening. For older warblers
who have outgrown the wet handkerchief
moods of dreary 17, “Acceptance,” with a
spring growth in its brisk accompaniment,
will strike several responsive chords. There
are three other little ditties shrined in the
same cover. Paling’s are responsible for the
production.
The black silk choker —a poor relation of
the Gladstone stock —is struggling to the
ear-lobes of the smart young man about tea-
rooms. He wears it half-way up his collar.
The linen fence grows shorter, and is locked
across the front with a. severe black bow.
An unimportant youth, earmarked as the
last gasp of fashion, at a recent Society
Freeze, tried to look unconscious of the
rising-up of his new style necktie, which
tickled him under one ear when he pushed
his partner round the frenzied waltz. Pro-
bably something had given way in the back-
wash of his lingerie. Anyhow, even a woman
can foresee trouble for the inexperienced
young buck, with a swan-like area of neck,
who tries to wear a half-grown silk stock
across the middle of his Adam’s apple.
A dull week fainted quietly away in a wet
Saturday night splash. Between the rain-
drops of the Thursday water spout, the
Butterfly maidens, heavily coated, swished
into the Best Rag Stores, inspected the
new patterns in shot silks, and the wooden-
looking ruches on the Paris models. The
stiff skirts of shiny silk, with prim trim-
mings, and the little jackets of another color,
drift back to the mid-’Bo’s.
Spring millinery shows a tendency to climb
up in front like well-staked tomatoes. A
very small woman, with one of these on-end
stalks of floriculture, or a, stiff bow rising
like a ship’s mast out of the crown of her
head, is a sorrowful example of matter in
the wrong place, when a wind squall strikes
her top deck.
Some audacious prophet said that one-
button gloves and elastic-sided boots were
coming into fashion this year. But they
haven’t struck this end of the planet at date
of scratching this memo.
Yours as usual,
VANDORIAN.


t
c
m
m
n
isgpssssfL
r- «f. ft y .’ £3 ...'1
Sl^S®
R > s£g
H
5X
"itili
XCc
<X//
m
■m
m
m
W
h
j&k
&jmr?
€€
Cobra,"
#
m
.x
C K
8*
i
i
m
W
s@>
Jg
3
S'-'
-
y
y
Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sees the whole
Long innings through.
None can break
His defence,
And his hitting
Is immense !
Hear the big crowd’s
Joyous roar
As he hits
Another four!
Brilliant batsman ?
I should smile !
He has got
A COBRA style.


FAVORED FELTS AND VELOURS.
THE LATEST PHASES, at FARMER’S
The smartness and. distinction conferred by the Rough Felt
and, Real Velour Hats have firmly established them in the smart
dresser’s favor. Farmer’s, always “a step in advance,” can supply
the newest shapes—styles to please every taste, and fit every
head. . , , .
We can supply the rough felts in Black, also in subdued tones
of brown, G-reen, Grey or Reseda, with self-colored bands, and
plain or turn-over edges.
Prices 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 14s. 6d. and 16s. 6d.
REAL VELOURS.
To be had in Green, Orel’ and Slate shades, with bands of self
Tor. _
Price 255.
STRAW BOATERS AND PANAMAS.
SPLENDID SELECTION OF NEW STYLES.
ALL SIZES AND SHAPES.
ĥ
FARMER’S
SYDNEY.
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
The New Oriental will be com-
pleted and ready for guests early
in October.
The most modern and comfortable resi-
dential hotel in Australia. -
.Apartments well aired, well lighted,
well furnished.
Private telephone and hot and cold
water in every room.
Suites comprising sitting-room, bed-
rooms, private bath and dressing-
room.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressing
Saloon on the premises.
Tariff, from 15/- per day, according to
room required.
Mr. Gustav Loosen, late of Grand
Oriental Hotel, Colombo, and
Savage Club, London, will take
over the management at the end
of September.
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE -
m
qc's:
U c.
u -.
U.
r.-v^;-D
J '^V'
H
THIS HOSE
is the Finest
that you can
obtain.
Its Quality
ensures Long
Wear, and its
Construction
no Kinking or
Bursting.
Stocked by all Store-
keepers, but to get the
best results, specify
“ Dunlop ” Brand.
'« »
Simple Section on Application
* *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth, and Christ-
church, N.Z.
dOlNfld
HK
a
Thousands
of Golfers
will now use
nothing but
the “Dunlop”
—experience
having proved
that they
play better
and last :::
longer than
any other
Ball.
It pays to
use them
besides :::
improving
your play.
2'6 ea
ALL SPORTS
DEPOTS.
Coif
Balls
THE DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
(2
w 8
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 2, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Gaud Mayor and his Gaudess are in-
viting the Best People to meet Governoi
Fuller and his lady at a sparkling dance on
Tuesday, September 17. The Best 1 eople
and tlie Fullers have, of course, fallen over
one another’s feet on innumerable occasions
already. But Society never wearies of meet-
ing itself and saying things behind its own
back. It is the modern edition of the ser-
pent that turns its engine round and bites
its own luggage van.
Governor Fuller opened Melbourne’s first
motor exhibition at the Big Barn, on Satur-
day. In the course of a breezy speech, he
mentioned a pathetic incident that happened
last month in London. The British Museum
bought a hansom cab to preserve as a relic
of a disappearing age. (What out-of-date
poet was it that wrote, "To hear the hansoms
slurring Once more through London mud” ?
And how much longer is it since Gilbert said
to the inebriated guest. "You are a four-
wheeler,” on the ground that the inebriated
one had taken him for a waiter, and clam-
ored out, "Call me a <;ab”?) Then his Ex.
started off on the grand tour of the 55
stands, and a flashing belltopper was quickly
lost to view amongst the wilderness of fiery
chariots. A reek of new rubber and fresh
enamel hangs in the air; but the gentle
visitor will sniff in vain for a whiff of oil.
That was barred on account of the fire risk,
so all the exhibits were towed in a lifeless
condition to the show.
Mrs. Peter, of Glenloth station, gave a
smart dance last week at her Northern Vic-
torian stronghold. The long-distance guests
arrived at 7.30, and left about five next
morning. They had to drive all the way
round a very full Lake Boort —a sheet of
water which has a curious habit, during dry
stretches, of becoming suddenly hard at the
edges, and leaving a smooth track for the
passing motor. When it is in a bad wet
mood the passing motor has to go round by
Adelaide and Bourke.
Last Monday, the Wattle maidens arrayed
themselves airily in white, and went forth.
But the weather had a bad relapse, and it
turned out to be a cold raid. One girl,
dressed as a Cingalee, actually invaded the
Vienna bar, and two of the Most Expensive
took possession of the Melbourne Club steps
and waved syren sprays of wattle at the
cowardly refugees within doors. It was bad
tactics, though, to call a refreshment halt
during the city’s dinner-hour. When the
attack was resumed, the enemy had taken
cover again, and the harvest of a bleak after-
noon wasn’t very rich. Grace Palotta, in
furs and tailor-mades, upset the Stock Ex-
change with the help of Ivy Bickford, Ilig-
ginson and Fred Leslie, made up as Dago
musicians. Grace is stated to have kissed
the chairman to win a guinea bet, while the
good Gaud. Mayor who wrestles with the
dust problem got a “half kiss” and a half-
crown spray of wattle for half a guinea. The
question i‘s : Was he cautious _or economical ?
Anyhow, what is a "half kiss”? Did the
Gaud Mayor kiss himself, or did Grace touch
her lips with her finger-tips and wave them
at him, or did he approach blushing in a
manner becoming an elderly gentleman, and
then retreat when he had gone half-way?
Whatever it was, the dust trouble was still
unsettled when all the kisses had been paid
for.
Marjorie Levey, christened at St. Peter’s
some 20 odd years ago, motored along there
last week to be married. A pair of parsons
converted the lady into Mrs. Albert Guy
Miller, of the large and wealthy clan that
helps to own Melbourne. The doctor bride-
groom looked properly nervous, whilst the
bride hid her blushes under some precious
Brussels lace that was the wedding veil of
Grandmamma Grice. Three Grice girls and
Athol Levey made a quartette of pale pink
bridesmaids, and lawyer Jim Purves’s two
youngsters swelled the joyous pageant as
train bearers. Osborne O’Hara, Hubert
Miller, Norman Hodges and Jack Carse, all
of them excellent afternoon-tea young men,
were in close attendance. They were garbed
in the well-known immaculate brand of
clothes, and wore butter-color gloves that
would have delighted the most exacting
dairy farmer. The two handsome mothers,
Mrs. Levey and Mrs. Albert Miller, wept
happily, and, later, entertained Toorak at
afternoon tea on the tennis court and in a
pale pink marquee at Bowden. A pink-
trimmed dance in the evening closed the
social disturbance.
Molly Atherton wore a big white hat in Lon-
don at her wedding to Captain Edward White,
of the Northamptonshire Regiment. The re-
sult is that the habitual bridesmaids in these
parts are confidently assuming that big hats
must be the very latest things in altar
fashions. A brother officer of the 48th sup-
ported the bridegroom at the ordeal, and
squired pretty sister Muriel, who appeared
as pink-and-white bridesmaid. The knot-
ting was got through at St. Paul’s, Knights-
bridge, and the toasts at the Alexandra
Hotel.
The death of Mrs. Alfred Isaacs will hit
her devoted family very hard. Jack Isaacs
could never find time for marriage in his
incessant attendance on his mother, and
Mr. Justice Isaacs paid court to her every
day, telephoning his homage when absent
from Melbourne. The old lady was a keen
Shakspearian student, and could almost
quote the bard backwards. She had a tena-
cious memory, and followed the topics of the
moment with the alertness of a brain of 30.
Also, she was guilty of writing verses.
Mrs. Oswald Watt quits her grass-widow
flat next week, and departs to England by
the Malwa. Now there is another luxurious,
secondhand electric “broom” on the motor
market.
The Lyceum Club is acquiring some new
rooms at the end of this week. President
Mrs. Deakin will solemnly drink a well-
brewed cup of tea, and make the apparently
indispensable remarks.
The two dozen debutantes of the Catholic
Ladies’ College dance “came out” in a
thoroughly painstaking spirit. They went
to Mass on Sunday morning, and afterwards
practised with their dancing master until
G o’clock, when they were let off further
rehearsal for the evening meal and vespers.
High Provisioner George lieid’s daughter
Thelma is engaged to Mr. Jack Playfair.
He is a Sydney young man who went to
London to ride at the Horse Show. If he
didn’t win, it was the fault of the animals
he bestrode, for no finer horseman exists
anywhere. The family’s wealth emanates
from Meat —in plain terms, they are but-
chers. Hence, no doubt, Mr. Reid’s enthu-
siasm over the projected alliance. Still,
there is, mayhap, a flaw in our Stipendiary
Feeder’s bliss. If only, now the pros-
pective son-in-law had come of a lolly-
manufacturing family! Thelma is very
young, but when much younger was
a book-learned and knowledgeable girl
who could argue with the best, and
stun people with quotations from Shaks-
peare and worse. When she went to
London, she blossomed out as a capable
entertaining help to her rather timid mother,
and she has been in the centre of the social
arena ever since.
Widower General Gordon has taken
Urana, in Punt-road, as a home-camp, with
young daughter Eily as housekeeper. The
warrior, just back from Westralia, has now
gone northwards to Brisbane, with inci-
dental camps at Albury and Sydney on the
way.
Penleigh Boyd, of the extensive Boyd and
a’Beckett clans, is trumpeting announce-
ments of his engagement from London. His
fiancee is Edith Anderson, one of Brisbane’s
nicest girls, and daughter of the late Gerard
Anderson. The two young people are just
out of their teens. Pen Boyd is an artist
who got a picture hung in the Royal Acad-
emy last year; also, he had quite a success-
ful' exhibition of his work in London. The
pair will marry and return to Australia
after Christmas.
On Monday afternoon, a number of politi-
cal big guns and social small arms wan-
dered along to see Margaret Baskerville’s
statue of the late Thomas Bent. Mrs.
Bleasby, the old politician’s daughter, after
looking at the image’s tight-fitting vest, vol-
unteered some information. “My father
always wore a long, loose, rumpled vest,”
she remarked. So the little sculptress got to
work, and started to make the statue less
tidy about the chest. While in , the studio,
Mrs. Bleasby marked for her own a Basker-
ville water-color sketch of Brighton Beach.
The Elsternwick Hockey Club gave an in-
vitation dance in All Saints’ Hall, the other
evening. Half the A team (alas!) are say-
ing good-bye to the grand old lunacy this
season. Mollison, the captain, has decided
that he is now too weighty to propel himself
violently across the sward in order to grunt
and Smack the spot where the ball was
before somebody hit it elsewhere. Bill
Dennet is facing matrimony-—a state of ex-
istence which admits of no diversions. He
is also going to Queensland. Guy Watson is
abandoning Dalgety’s and hockey for the
joys of agriculture. By the way, the
Eisternwick team can trace its beginnings
to the cow paddock of papa Dalgety Watson,
where it flourished under the title of the
lona Club.
A recent bride is said to hqve threatened
to have the knot tied in a cold, empty taber-
nacle, unless Mamma swore to.cut the name
of a certain heavyweight cleric off the list
of breakfast orators. Of course, Mamma
swore, but on the eventful day the poor lady
blushed every time she met the reproachful
eye of the rejected speech-maker. It appears
that the poor man has a perfect genius for
saying the wrong thing and putting his foot
in it. At any rate, the bride reckoned that
his oratorical footwork was too poor to let
him talk at her banquet.
Before they left Melbourne, the Canadian
cadets pronounced Melbourne “a bully
place.” It may have had something to do
with the local girls. Society pets pursued
the nice-looking importations and gave them
the time of their lives. Tete-a-tete drives in
cosy motor-cars and tea-parties for two were
going on all the time. The boys wepe fin-
ished skaters, and the Glaciarium saw a lot
of them. The fuss kicked up by their com-
manding officer in Sydney when free enter-
tainment wasn’t offering in sufficient Quan-
tities, was here translated into a grateful
farewell message of thanks as the contingent
resumed its travels.
In the death and funeral reports of Booth
there is no mention of younger son Herbert.
Herbert was in Melbourne with Ins wife
somewhere about the time of Brassey. lhe
Faller-off made an appearance at a great
Army rally in Melbourne Town Hall, at
which Mrs. Herbert spoke. She was a
fluent speaker, and a particularly handsome
woman. When her husband had spent some
years in Melbourne, he was transferred to
Collie (W.A.). The couple desired a more
civilised environment for themselves and
their small children; but the old General
stubbornly refused to shift them from the
backblocks. Herbert thereupon resigned
from the Army, and drifted back to Eng-
land, where he went in for slum work under
different management.
“Wanted some young girl over school age
who will act as telegraph messenger on drill
days.” This is a wail from Rutherglen
(Vic.) from a postmaster who feels the in-
convenience of Australia’s call to arms.
A fashionable woman who gives most up-
to-date bridge parties hereabout, finds that
she is expected to supply cigars as well as
whisky and cigarettes for her women guests.
The cigars are certainly small things; but.
like the cigarettes, they may grow long and
thick. Then, if the smoking woman buys the
same sort of cigars for herself as she does
for her husband, there will be a heavy,
singed-dog odor over the land.
Alexander Watson, of the apparently
flawless memory, stumbled the other even-
ing during “The Charge of the Light Bri-
gade,” and, after accepting three prompts,
rushed his men out of the Valley of Death
like the N.S.W. Sergeant-at-Arins _ on some
evening when the Opposition is feeling fresh.
It was seemingly the old trouble of being too
familiar with your piece. (Yearly and half-
yearly and other subscribers, also casual
investors of sixpence, will please refrain
from reading that sentence as slang.) .The
fine reciter is beginning to feel the strain of
giving continuous shows with a change of
programme every night. In crowded
London a lecturer can give the same pro-
gramme for weeks on end, and so give the
substance under his hat a chance.
Kirkby Lunn made the concert of last
week brilliant, in a clothes sense, by wearing
a lemon-colored dress with a vivid orange
belt. Long gloves that stretched almost to
the shoulders went with the striking cos-
tume, and her brown hair (whispered to be
all her own) was coiled into a most correct
coiffure that would have passed muster at
Queen Victoria’s Court. She is delightfully
correct as regards her singing. The three-
ply velvet voice is kept in Quaker-like sub-
jection, and is never the sport of strong emo-
tions. On Wednesday night, she carolled
some delightful little French songs. Some-
body appears to have slain the most deadly
of the Town Hall draughts. Though a
snow-trimmed Antarctic disturbance was
raging outside, the large audience sat com-
fortably through the concert.
The cloak-room lady smiled coldlv and
watched the women going in and out. “This
is only the second Kirkby Lunn concert, and
already I’ve lost three powder puffs and an
ivory comb. The Cisneros season cleaned
up two brushes, a lot of hairpins and pearl-
powder, and one nickel-plated shoe-horn. I
can’t watch the toilet gear and help every-
one with their wraps at the same time; so
the pilferers do it without much risk. Furs
should be kept under lock and key—if
women will insist on leaving them. Lace
scarves melt like butter in summer. The
fashionables are really the worst of the lot.
Some night one of these female pirates will
tear up the carnet and roll it out with a
few notabilities kicking inside it. Then
there will be trouble. They couldn’t very
well call that sort of thing kleptomania,
could they ?”
When Sylvia Ffrench goes to join adopted
mamma Melba after the Cup revels, she will
most probably travel under the wing of
Auntie Power, a noted lion-tamer in the
social arena.
From my Adelaide correspondent: —
The harassed housewife has been looking rather
less so these last few days, for lo! the Government
has leased a place at Norwood, which is to be used
as a home for assisted immigrants who have come
here as domestic helpers. The step is, of course,
disgracefully Socialistic, and I take it the place will
be avoided by all conscientious Liberals—ladies and
lydies alike. But to the rest of us it looks uncom-
monly like a Boon—provided we find somebody in the
house when we go there. Often before, have we gone
to premises where Domestic Helpers were alleged,
to be on sale, and have beaten with wild umbrellas
at the door, all to no purpose. Generally, we have
been offered a governess, or an elderly and decayed
actress, or a book-keeper, as a substitute for the
goods after which we craved. We have even been
tendered a reliable sundowner.
On the Government’s new premises the out-of-
work dish-breaker is to be dissected and classified.
And after her, hot-foot, will trek the out-of-maid
resident. The Home will be a sort of club. Books,
sewing machines and other delights will be pro-
vided. Also, cheap meals.
Froekily speaking, the A.R.C. meeting, at Victoria
Park, was a frost. A cloudy sky drove female race-
goers to the coat-and-skirt habit. Then the sun
smiled emphatically, and the effect was awful. Coats
and skirts which have seen a season’s hard wear,
simply hate being smiled on by the sun. The Gov-
ernor and his daughters were there, also Miss Phipps.
I mention this to show you that, as a sporting com-
munity, we are still loyal to the core. The Hunt
Club turned up in time ior the first race, after an
early morning run. Lockwing pleased the few who
backed him by paying £23 in the Steeple, and
Korea gave his supporters £29 odd for second place
in the Beaumont Trial.
Trade has been brisk during the past couple of
days at Government House, where an exhibition of
locally-owned curios has been on view. Admission,
2s. 6d. ; proceeds in aid of the D.T.N. Society. All
feminine Adelaide has turned out its glory-boxes and
garrets, and the result leaves us gasping at our own
artistic wealth. Two thousand curios, mark you!
The exhibits vary from exquisite miniatures to un-
flattering dagr.errotypes, from ancient samplers to
wondrous modern from gold model ships
to tea caddies and jewellery.
Mr. Jack Lindon (nephew of the Lindon of Gee-
long Grammar School) is engaged to Miss Adelaide
Pulton. She, like Miss Warren, the heroine of last
week’s engagement, is a connection of the Downer
clan.
The Hornabroolcs’ house, on East Terrace, changed
hands this week. For some years it has been leased
by the Arthur Waterhouses, and is now sold to the
Malcolm Reids.
From England comes news that Miss Martha
Bruggemann is working her way ahead in London.
Her teacher, the famous Bouhy, speaks well of her,
and she recently sang with no small success at one of
the Sir Henry ‘Wood “Promenades.” Another South
Australian to appear at the same concert was
violinist Daisy Kennedy.
The worth of draught horses, and Suffolk punches
will be weighed by a new judge at the September
Show —one John James, of Derrimat, near Cplae,
Victoria.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


J
Km
a Mi
VaMBG^jT
.-nr-
&
R\V.
07 c r\
STANDARD
~\ MALT )
m
WHISKY
V
* rri •
A COMMON-SENSE TALK
By the WHISKYOLOGIST.
NE of the many important things worth noting
about Joshua’s Whisky is that you are not asked
to drink it merely because it is Australian. A request
of that kind would be as stupid as the refusal of some
men to ask for it merely because it is Australian.
Common-sense reasoning and common-sense decisions,
based on the evidence of the true merit of the beverage,
are all that are necessary to convince you of the goodness
of this Whisky.
You are invited to drink Joshua’s Whisky because
its age and its purity are supported by an absolute
Government guarantee.
With this “G.R.” label on the bottle the quality of
Joshua’s Whisky is removed from the debatable stage
and placed on a level of certainty.
Therefore, if considerations of health, quality and
value are of importance to you, you will ask for
Joshua’s Government guaranteed Whisky, and refuse
efforts to put you off with the imported brands.
Age, Quality and Purity
Government Guaranteed.
“1
(
\ s
1
a aai
%
• k,
1
€
■
■ . s
•%>,-/ ip
3g»
s a
IBS
■
mmmmm.
wmm
50BWS
*
.
1
kill
" ivV 1
i
The Soul of
the Grape.
MARTELI/S is a product of the
finest brandy district of France —
the world-famed Charentes.
There, the brandy grape flourishes
under the finest natural conditions. The
ripe experience of nearly 200 years pro-
duces from this unequalled juice Martell’s
—the standard of excellence.
Perfebl as a drink —or as a liqueur ;
invaluable as a potent medicinal spirit.
line
o
nac
r
M,
1
)2&


ASK FOR
♦ ♦ ♦
FRANZ JOSEF
LAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HACKERBRAU
DARK LAGER.
h
ĥ
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Write.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.). SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
At last N.S.W. Speaker AVillis has hit the
Ark of the Covenant in the eye. In other
words, he has shut the Sydney Telegraph
reporters out of Parliament House. It
would have been hardly more terrible if he
had gone into the middle of Illawarra, and
there lifted his voice on high and d d
the great goddess Cow.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL RAILROAD.
Mr. W- E. Johnson argued the other day that N. S. Wales members should stand together, regardless
of their politics, and demand the State’s rights.... It is to be hoped that they will stand together.' They
will not be asking for any concession or favor to N. S. Wales, but only that reasonable effect shall be
given to the Constitution and Federal Legislation.—D.T., excitedly.
OUR HEROINE: “Oh, th' plottin' villain! After all my shrewdness an' schemin' for this
route some wretches 'ud dare try t' switch th' traffic onto some other line! 'Elp! ’Elp!"
THE SLAYER.
[Fon The Bulletin'.]
Mr. Kelly was giving some cogent arguments
against the proposal when the time for the motion
expired.— Parliamentary throe.
Alas 1 this moves us much to find
So fair a motion sped—
Before relentless Kelly’s wind
Old Time himself dropped dead!
N.S.W. P. E.
One D. M. Manilal, M.A., an Indian bar-
rister, recently yarned to a Sydney press-
man about his countrymen : —
The leading men of India are strongly averse to
the emigration of indentured labor. Vie hope the
day will soon come when it will be stopped alto-
gether. Only the riff-raff go as a rule —-often those
who have got into disgrace—but we don’t want to
lose even them. We can find employment in our own
country for them all. I am afraid that those who
know only the Indian hawker in Australia, or the
ind.an coolie in Hji, have not a very good oninion
of the Indians as a whole. But you must never for-
get that the better class of Indians are not to be
found in the coolie lines, nor peddling goods from
farm to farm in the country.
So the Indian hawker, it would appear, is
the scum of Hindustan, and Hindustan is
reported to be a rather scummy country.
His AVashup might consider this pronounce-
ment next time Ram Blast applies for a re-
newal of his hawking license.
Deakin, on the Federal Budget:—
It was generally recognised that the rise in prices
in Australia and the increase in wages had been eat-
ing up the small Protection which the manufacturers
of the Commonwealth enjoyed, and had in many
cases brought them into serious competition with
imports from abroad. The tariff of 1908 was,
broadly speaking, as much a revenue as a Pro-
tectionist tariff. It had been asserted that the in-
creases of wages by Wages Boards throughout Aus-
tralia were nullifying such Customs duties as were
in operation.
Cook, on ditto : —
The tariff in Australia, taken altogether, was not
far, if anything, behind the Canadian tariff. The
manufaetureres were having a good time —the fac-
tories were filled almost to bursting point.
That “honorable understanding” ordaining
that the fiscal subject shouldn’t even be
mentioned between them, which joined
Deakin and Cook in political matrimony,
looks a very gelatinous sort of bond these
times.
“Briny” writes : —
According to Winston Churchill, “The Reichstag
has passed five Navy Acts in 14 years. The pro-
gramme of 1898 was practically doubled two years
later. Had the law of 1900 been pursued without
variation, the annual expenditure would be only
about £11,000,000. It is £23,000,000. Nearly
four-fifths of the German Navy will be maintained
in full permanent commission, instantly and con-
stantly ready for war. The severe German criticisms
are only against the inadequacy of this! Naval war
can reach its decisive phase with awful suddenness.
The blow can be prepared at an hour’s notice, and
delivered with the swiftness of a thunderbolt. Yet
consider, the extreme slowness with which the instru-
ments are forged. Small ships take 18 to 20 months
to build. Large ones two, three, even four years.
Docks take over four years to build, seamen two or
three years to train, artificers much longer, officers
six or seven years. And the efficiency from harmoni-
ous combination of these elements is a plant of very
slow growth indeed. We ought to learn from our
German neighbors, whose policy marches unswerv-
ingly towards its goal across the lifetime of a whole
generation.” Bonar Law says: “Ten years ago we
had the command of every sea. Now only of the
North Sea. I am reminded of the decline of the
Roman Empire, when pressure at the heart forced
them to recall their legions. This has happened to
us.” Churchill admits that the coal strike pre-
vented £2,000,000 being spent on naval construc-
tion. Another strike or two might enable Germany
to overtake Britain in battleships. y
THE BIRD THAT TALKED TOO
MUCH.
Mr. Deakin made one confession. The Customs
tariff, he says, is mostly a revenue tariff. This was
not the description which was given to it when it
pissed. It was applauded as a magnificent instru-
ment for creating vast factories all over Australia.
—Daily paper.
MORE TO THE POINT.
At a full meeting of the New South Wales Council
of the Australian Freedom League, which has as its
aim the abolition of the compulsory clauses of the
Commonwealth Defence Act, reports were received
from various centres, indicating a growing interest
in the movement. —Daily paper.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA (to Fisher): “ B'gosh ,
Mister, I wisht you'd do away with com-
pulsory milkin'!”
“Dano” : I am afraid Albury, in the Ma
State, will soon have to consider the pro-
priety of changing its name to Al’zireh, or
something of the kind. Ten years
ago the Syrian draper was a small,
humble trader who lurked or hov-
ered or slunk in the lower part of
the town. Now he slinks brazenly
in the full glare of day, and there
are about 15 Syrian rag palaces,
some of them occupying the best
sites in the business area. Many
women who have no compunction
in running a big account with the
white trader scornfully spend their
spot cash with the alien, though
why this is so neither they nor I
can tell. It is a tragic jest that
the electorate which returns Bill
Lyne, White Australian and Pro-
tectionist, should be afflicted by
Benliadad in this fashion.
N.S.W. Government got a bad
scare last month, when a public
servant sued it for the cash value
of all the years of leave he had
omitted to take in his time. It
has now published a regulation
which says that the Service must
take its leave regularly. Any chap
that stacks his arrears up for
more than two years running starts
to lose it and all right to ever get
it. It is a salutary move. The
only man who never needs a holi-
day is the man who never works.
This type is of no value to any service. There
is another variety of non-holiday taker;
namely, the sort who doesn’t dare to leave
his job for fear it will be audited, or some-
thing, in his absence. And he is even more
useless than the other variety of chair-
warmer.
“Rule Nisi”: It would seem to be a tra-
dition with N. S. Wales Governments, Lib-
eral and Labor alike, to leap violently on
the aged public servant wherever a shadow
of excuse offers. The other day, one of the
tribe, by name Glen, wtat 61, asked for per-
mission to retire on the ground of ill-health.
The Government said he might, but after
retiring him refused to pay the usual grat-
uity on the grounds (1) that the amount
due had not been calculated, and (2) that
the plaintiff had voluntarily retired. The
Full Court’s, comments on these points were
that the first objection was idiotic, and the
second senseless, or words to that effect, and
piled Costs on top of the State as usual. It
is a noteworthy fact that in its campaign
against the aged of the Public Service the
N.S.W. Law Department has only won once
—and then it won on a foul, so to speak.
IT DAZZLES THE WORLD.
No discovery in medicine has ever created one
quarter of the interest that has been caused by Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It
has brought relief in the most hopeless cases, when
all else has failed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Messrs. John Sands, Ltd., the compilers and print-
ers of that invaluable reference book, “Sands'
Directory,” wiil be glad to receive notice of altera-
tions and changes in addresses for the 1913 “Direc-
tory,” up to the first week in October.*
F. M. B. Fisher, of Maoriland, son of old
George Fisher wh m Wellington loved, is
still gifted with the old ingenuity which
once enabled him to
find a voucher which
wasn’t a voucher, or
else wasn’t the same
voucher that he had
discovered it to be. He
is now in the Massey
Ministry, and has out-
lined a novel plan of
selecting civil servants
by lottery. Influence
is to be shut out from
the departments over
which he has control,
and when two, five, or
20 equally well-quali-
fied men apply for a
job they are to toss
for it.
The N.S.W. State railways are doing not
much better, despite the great increase of
traffic, than the Federal Posts and Tele-
graphs. For the year to June, 1911, they
showed a profit of £4 13s. Cd. per cent, on
capital but for last year this slumped to
£4 Bs. 2d.
Melbourne’s two organs
of anti-Democratic opin-
ion are just as far from a
fusion of Tory sentiment
as ever they were. Every
item in the State Minis-
terial programme moves
them to discord. Premier
Watt, seemingly, has the
Age behind him, pushing
him on and patting his
back, whilst the Argus
attempts to shove him the
other way. In fact,
Watt’s unpopularity with
the Argus gives him a
decidedly progressive ap-
pearance. Even his de-
nunciations of Fisher
Government “fallacies”
fall unheeded on the ear
of that Tory family jour-
nal, inasmuch as he de-
nunciates in a Deakin-
esque, rather than a
Jokookian tone of voice.
Practically it is not a
one party support at all,
but only a mutual an-
tagonism to the other
party, from two different
standpoints. The two
posts meet at the top, but
their angle of inclination
is. not the same, and their
footing is insecure.
The proposal to put up
a Labor candidate against
Uncle Bill Lyne was
playing it low down on a valiant old warrior
with whom the world hasn’t gone too well.
Lyne, in recent years, hasn’t simply been “as
good as a Labor man.” tie has been a heap
more democratic than many Labor men, and
the only possible reason for trying to oust
him is that somebody wants the bearded
ancient’s salary.
The “general report regarding my visit to
America,” supplied by N.S.W. ex-Minister
Nielsen, the gentleman whose colleagues of
the McGowen Government sent him on a
long trip at £4 4s. per day for “expenses”
plus his Parliamentary salary, has been
printed. It covers about five pages, and
sets forth that the writer met Percy Hunter
(everybody meets P. Hunter somewhere),
that he got Mr. P. E. Quinn as assistant,
that he was ill for a while (stomach, possi-
bly), that colored labor is cheap in Hono-
lulu (well known before), that foreign ships
are not permitted to engage in the U.S.
coasting trade (very well known for many
years past), thet he went to certain places,
that owing to his illness (stomach, it may
be) he didn’t go to other places, and that
he left all these places and came home. In-
cidentally, he engaged a window in San
Francisco' in which to show N.S.-v*. pro-
ducts, but hadn’t any products to show. It
looks about the scantiest report that was
ever acquired at very high cost from a very
dissatisfied supporter. Now Mr. Nielsen,
still retaining his Parliamentary seat, is
off again at very high cost to struggle some
more with the vast commercial orb of his
fate, and he left so suddenly that his name
didn’t even appear in the passenger list.
Mr. Ocky writes :
At last somebody has been drawing attention to
the utter absurdity of the dredging that goes on,
year in and year out, at Port Phillip. To keep the
poor old place about halfway up to requirements
this submarine shovelling and digging and baling goes
on incessantly. Then the dug-out material has to be
sent away. Nobody ever dares face the expense
of nutting it on railway trucks and sending it to the
Mallee, so it is simply taken to another part of the
harbor and dropped in there. Then it gradually
slides and slithers and slumps back into the channel,
and Sisyphus, the dredge, gets it out again. If a
temporary retaining-wall was built across the Heads
and Port Phillip was pumped out (which, I believe,
could be done for about £100,000,000), and then a
wide 100 ft. channel was dug out with steam scoops,
and the material was taken away by train and
thrown on to the countenance of the country of
Karkarooc, in order that it might fertilise the same,
some permanent results might ensue. As it is, the
whole business seems a purposeless carrying of dead
elephants uphill to no-place, and meanwhile the con-
stant dashing of mud all around is destroying the
fishing beds. Now, is all this banging and slushing
a business-like distribution of money and time and
energy, and is it to go on for ever, whilst Portland
and other places, which require little or no dredg-
ing (and ■ which have more than a foot of water
between the bottom of the boat and the ocean bed),
remain the deserted victims of a ruinous centralising
mania? Also, can somebody tell me how many
dredges have been imported, made, or otherwise
obtained in Australia, in (say) the last 10 years,
and the exact amount in pence that has been spent
on the good harbors which need no dredging?
MORE TROUBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Senator McColl, told a meeting of the Prahran
branch of the Independent Workers’ Federation last
night that there was a better time coming, for the
workers of Australia were becoming tired of the
present Ministry. —Melbourne Argus.
Do you hear the sound of marching ? ’Tis the
Nation standing still,
And in frenzy climbing downward up the flat and
fearful hill,
Where the army of right-thinkers holds the fort for
Freedom yet,
With its mind on open-shop and somewhat larger
profits set.
Do you hear the noise of armies marching, marching
swift and slow?
'Tis the Nation pushing forward with its back to-
wards the foe!
Hear the tramping of the legions, by their camp-
fires sitting tight,
While the sun shines fiercely on them through the
long, grim battle-night!
List, a thousand martial voices as the cohorts move
along—
A glum, retreating rabble, with a burst of cheerful
song
As the Nation’s broken leaders move more men up to
the front,
And the fighting knights of Slowgress lose their
horses in the hunt!
Fagged and fresh, and tired as daisies, and with
tallow on their heels,
Rearward march the starving forces, halting now
and then for meals.
They are marking time like blazes, every hope of
conquest gone,
Pushing forward still, and backwards, giving in and
battling on,
While their beaten colors, waving in the forefront
of the fray,
Help to keep ’em from rememb’ring that they
shouldn’t act that way.
Whence comes that growing clamor, that immense,
approaching roar
As of half a gross of breakers banging on a cliff-
bound shore?
What is that sound of cheering? Why that glad,
tremendous shout?
’Tis the Nation giving thanks because it’s wholly
down and out;
And the noise of its retreating can be heard far on
ahead,
As it hunts the foe —assisted by its somewhat lively
dead !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


French
Grand Prix
The Greatest Event
in 1912
v„
* .
V*.
V *
' r » v .
sX-..- X-'?X
X ; <.. ""••> V','^
rm
Vv>V:
- ,
OM*X%v ~.' ~“'v*L /
5SS^«'
;ix , v
s
Won on
S§B The World's Greatest Bp£|
1 Lubricant HBB
"Gargoyle "Mobiloil
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
EDISON
ENTERTAINMENT
If you attend the theatre your payment
for admittance only secures one hearing
of each item. You cannot have a repeti-
tion of the songs you liked best at any
time you wish, you cannot have the charm-
ing waltz-music played again at will, and
you cannot have the humorous dialogue
recited for you as often as you like.
Consider the advantages of the Edison
Phonograph and • Edison Records. A
small initial outlay will secure a first-
class machine and supply of Records,
both of which will last for years, and
play for you as often as you desire. Your
collection of Records can be augmented
from time to time by the purchase of
new numbers; thus you will be kept up-
to-date in the matter of entertainment,
and you can choose and reject to suit
yourself.
Any Edison dealer can supply both
Phonograph and Records. If you do not
know the address of one, write direct to
us, and we will tell you that of the
nearest.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Sydney, Sydney.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
m
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5/-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
ħ
1
Investigate
Atmoslite
Lighting.
Whether you are
building a new home,
thinking about better
and more economical
lighting, or own a
poorly-lighted shop or
store, do as many
others are doing—
write about and in-
vestigate the Atmoslite
Air-gas lighting sys-
tem.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne. i
h
Are You Man or Boy?
A moustache will mean the difference. It makes for strength of
personality, character —higher position both commercially and socially.
CAPILLARINE will make you a man amongst men! It will quickly
promote a smart, natty moustache. It’s the infallible hairgrower, with a
25 Years’ Record. Send for a jar of it to-day 1
PRICE 10/6 JAR.. Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER makes the moustache
grow shapely. Worn at night. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each. POST FREE.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
Craig &. AitKen,
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
A NEW MODEL.
Smith’s Perfect Speedometer
We have just landed a Speedometer eminently suited to Single-Seated Cars
and Runabouts, registered SPEED TO 50 MILES AN HOUR, and
TOTAL MILEAGE to 9999 MILES.
Motorists and Prospective Motorists
Price £4 Complete.
invited to inspect it.
Sole Agenls■
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street
STEELE RUDD’S
GREAT
Australian Books
IN CHEAP EDITIONS. Price, Is. each; Post Free, Is. Id.
All the celebrated illustrations have been retained,
as these New Cheap Editions are printed from
the original Stereos.
SANDY’S SELECTION
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
ON OUR SELECTION
OUR NEW SELECTION
THE DASHWOODS
THE POOR PARSON
DUNCAN McCLURE
FOR LIFE
DAD IN POLITICS
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
STEELE RUDD’S Latest—
THE BOOK OF DAN
(Author of “On Our Selection,” etc., etc.)
—Profusely Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay.—
PRICE, Is.; POST FREE, Is. Id.
That the hand of our old friend Mr. Davis has not lost its cunning is proved beyond doubt by
“The Book of Dan,” which has just been published.
Dan, the son of Dad, has grown to man’s estate, and developed many humorous peculiarities
which land him in particularly tight corners, out of which he generally manages to gxtricate
himself like a veritable Napoleon of the Bush. Dan is a character, and his sense of humor is
not always the same as the other fellow’s, but it will assuredly tickle the reader to tears.
Of this book there is no doubt; it is bound to become a favorite.
Over £lO,OOO worth of “On Our Selection” and “Our
New Selection” have been sold in Australia—a fact
that speaks volumes for their popularity.
Thousands of admirers of Steele Rudd, who could not hitherto afford the
prohibitive price of his books, can now laugh with the best.
Uniform with the above, THE BULLETIN RECITER.
Are now obtainable at all Branches and Bookstalls of the
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
Throws Moving Pictures in any
place, at any time, with the
light that it makes itself.
The light is produced from electricity generated in the small magneto (Fig.
1 (j) as the handle that projects the picture is turned. Thus the machine is abso-.
lutely independent of any outside means of lighting, and can be used as successfully
in the camp or country house as in the city house. The light is a small electric
bulb, and the magneto cannot get out of control in any circumstances.
1
) V
PATHE FILMS WILL
NOT BURN and the
PATHEHOME is the only
Cinem ato-
graph which
will not in-
crease the
cost of fire
insurance on
your home.
No.
I—Handle.
3—Delivery Spool.
B—Gate (the Lamp-
house is on the
Gate).
12—Receiving Spool.
13 & 15—Lamphouse
14—Lens.
16—Magneto.
The Pathehome gives the same result as the old cinematograph, but with-
out any risk, and is no more like it in principle than a modern runabout is like a
mail coach. The showman’s cinematograph and smaller copies of it in the hands
of the unskilled are dangerous. There is no danger with the Pathehome. Con-
sider this and the pleasure that you and vour family can get out of it, no matter
where you live, and write for full particulars now. Do it at once, using this
coupon.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and Post At Once.
PATHE FRERES, 48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free catalogue of the Pathehome Cinematograph.
Name
Address
Dept. C.
Get to know more of this
wonderful machine. Get our
catalogue posted free. It will
interest and delight you.
Write now.
Pathe Frcres,
48 Queen St., Melbourne
and All Over the World.


PARENTS STARTLED.
“My wife and I were quite startled by hearing
our little girl cough a real croupy cough,” writes
R. A. Young, Cudal, N.S.W. “I at once got a
bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy and gave it
to her. In the morning there was no sign of croup,
and her cough rapidly left her.”*
810-SHOWMEN!
T" HERE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
FOUL BREATH.
MISFORTUNE FOR MAN OR WOMAN.
The old saying that “Distance lends en-
chantment” was never more aptly. to the
point than when applied to those people
whose breath is laden with evil-smelling and
offensive odors. Many persons appear most
attractive at a distance, but produce a feel-
ing of pity and disgust when close to, be-
cause of the condition of their breath. For
instance, it makes little difference how beau-
tiful a woman may be, or how charming her
manner, if her breath is foul; her charm is
gone, and she is at a disadvantage whenever
she comes in contact with other people.
Foul breath in woman arouses in man a
feeling of repugnance and a desire to get
out of the company of such a woman as
quickly as possible; and even women will
avoid her. It is, therefore, important for
every woman who values her personal at-
traction to take such care of herself that
this unpleasant and unnecessary complaint
is avoided or corrected. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pi‘ll§ will be found a searching and
cleansing remedy, which will overcome this
complaint. They give you clean bowels, a
healthy stomach, a lively liver, and blood
that is rich and red. They are a safe, sure
and reliable remedy, and will prevent many
of the complaints so common if taken once
or twice a week, to keep the system in a
healthy condition. They are purely vege-
table, and their action is not accompanied
by any nauseous or griping sensation, but is
mild and gentle. For all complaints arising
from Imperfect Digestion and Impure Blood,
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are unex-
celled.*
ħ
K UPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices s Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The first appearance of Paul Til, the
French lightweight, in Sydney, was an unqualified
success, despite the fact that he lost his initial
battle in the Commonwealth. His appearance was so
fair and warlike, his fighting so clean and chivalrous,
the way he took his punishment so manly and
debonair, that at one bound he achieved hero-worship
—the popularity that means a big crowd every time
he fights. What more could the heart of pugilist
desire? And all this he did in the face of battery
and defeat. The crowd cheered him as his fortunes
sank; it cheered his wife when she left the Stadium
in a depressed state; and it cheered him madly
when big black Sam McVea carried him from the
ring on brawny shoulders. Every time the plucky
Frenchman went to his corner, apparently in a bad
way, the admiring crowd gave him a cheer for luck.
What made the Gaul’s battle look so clean was the
low-down scrap which Herbert McCoy put up against
him. It was not the fight of a good sportsman,
put the roughing, tricky scrap of a pushite, and a
pushite in a tight place. Heaven only knows why
he did it —there was no necessity for it. He had
the advantage of weight and reach, and most of the
time the fight went his way, yet he repeatedly hit
Til with the heel of his palm, held and hit simul-
taneously, and earned disqualification at least twice
for this despicable manoeuvre. Til’s cheek had been
split by a smash of McCoy’s head on the cheekbone,
and thereafter McCoy aimed steadily for the place
that had been wounded, not legitimately, but by
accident. Also, McCoy roughed and wrestled and
tried to exhaust his man by hustling him round the
ring and swinging him off his feet. For once, referee
Arthur Scott must have been dreaming, wool-gather-
ing, or something, for his handling of the fight was
far from satisfactory.
Til’s style is diversified. He suggests a wrestler
more than a boxer when sparring for an opening. He
is extremely shifty on his feet, walks round with his
hands at his sides and his eyes apparently fixed on
the ground. On Saturday night he appeared to be
giving away about a stone in weight, but the scales
gave their * tonnage as: McCoy 9st. 101 b., and Til
Ost. 4.1 lb. But in this matter it must be remem-
bered half a stone between lightweights is a much
bigger difference than a stone among heavyweights.
Although McCoy scored on points from the middle
of the second round, he had several narrow; escapes.
Til carries a knock-out in either hand, and it missed
McCoy .by the decimal of an inch more than
once. The blood from his cut cheek obscured the
sight, of one eye and spoiled his timing. The end
came! after the ninth round. McCoy had roughed
and roughed, and once in a clinch swung him off his
feet, and Til limped to his corner. Finding his ankle
had gone the towel was thrown in, and the badly-cut
Frenchman was carried from the ring on the shoul-
ders of Samuel McVea.
* * * *
A fight crowd is just as easy to stampede
as a Sunday-school gathering, it seems. After the
battle at the Mclntosh Stadium on Saturday night, it
whs fopnd that* the supply pf . trains was totally inade-
quate to cope with the herd, which had exceeded
the wildest expectations. So it came to pass that,
from Rusheutter’s Bay to Darlinghurst, there was a
long, moving column of men on the footpath. Trams
went by in a procession, with horse-dragged vehicles
sandwiched in between them for safety, for the rest
of the- street had been commandeered by the horde
of motors, full of howling and shouting fiends, which
roared by at 30 miles an hour. Suddenly, that
crawling column of pedestrians haltpd, a wave-like
motion trembled through it, and then the mass
began to surge slowly backwards. Next, without a
word of warning, a thousand men put down their
heads and ran wildly, madly, for their lives, and
eddied up side streets and into garden gates and on
to verandahs. It only lasted two minutes, and then
they came back, ashamed and angry, and inquired
fiercely, “What the was wrong?” Nobody knew,
and unto this day no man khoweth, so far as this
scribe has discovered.
* * * *
The Rugby League’s sudden-death com-
petition for the Gitv Cup commenced on Saturday
last. It produced at least one big surprise, when
the despised and contemned South Sydney team at-
tacked and overthrew the Eastern Suburbs crowd,
which had just emerged from the big competition
with the premiership in its pocket. And it was no
snatch victory, either, but the win that comes of a
long and stubborn battle, fought out from end to
end. Final score was 21 points to 10. The riot
between Newtown and North Sydney in the same
campaign was also a surprise for Newtown. During
the first half it looked as though North was liable
to crumple right up at any moment, and Newtown
seemed to grow stronger as the game progressed. But
'ncarances are deceitful things, and in the end
Newtown was licked by 15 points to 10. The
wrecking of Annandale by Balmain was expected, and
the men from the Tattered Suburb won with 17 to
five. Glebe put Western Suburbs out of its misery
quickly with 21 to nil!
* * * »
The N.3.W. country team which invaded
Brisbane under the League banner scored again on
Saturday. At half-time the points were five all, and
both sides going strong., The second half was a wild
struggle, in which both sides threatened repeatedly to
score, and N.S.W. actually did it once. This casual
try settled the question an.d made history. It left
N.S.W. roof dog by eight points to five, and a
dispirited'cellar' dog went home.
*•* * *
In the Rugby competition, Glebe again
fell on University, with the usual result, and this
time University went down by 12 points, the score
being 17 to five. This biffed the ’Varsity: out of the
running for the premiership, and left it a matter to
be decided between Glebe and Western Suburbs. The
mill will take place at University Oval on Saturday,
and great will be, the strenuousity thereof. On com-
petition points Western Suburbs leads, having 26
points to Glebe’s 25. This inequality is due to the
fact that, of the 16 matches played, Western Suburbs
either won or lost outright, while on one occasion
Glebe bad a drawn game. It will be a great battle,
for both teams are in excellent fettle, and determined
to win somehow or other. The referee is in for a
hard time, and is getting his coat of mail back from
the armor-scourer’s.
* * * *
The long and glorious run of that Union
team'from Manly Superior Public School came to an
end on Saturday, when the Village bumped one
from ‘Glenmore-road. There was no fancy scoring,
and the Manly crowd was pleased to be leading by
three to nil when close to time. Then there was a
sudden rush, a howl, a scramble, a crowd of dust,
something that looked like an escaped lion, some-
thing . that sounded like all the doors in creation
slamming at once, and Glenmore had scored a try.
Before the staggered Manly crowd could get going
again the whistle blew and the game had ended in a
draw.',
The Soccer struggle proceeded in all divi-
sions, and in the Gardiner Cup, Sydney and Garden
Island met in a semi-final. It was an unconvincing
affair, as after a fearful expenditure of energy the
board said one goal apiece, and each team went away
feeling that Providence had played it a scurvy trick.
Now they have to wear out the ball all over again.
In the Rawson Cup, Balmain tumbled Glebe out of
its chance of the utensil by four goals to nil, and
stepped on to an equal footing with Sydney. For
the Association Cup, Northern Suburbs and Y.M.C.A.
made a drawn game with one goal each. However,
neither of them have any chance of the Mug. That
will fall to either Balmain or West Sydney. In this
riot Balmain has an unbeaten record, having scored
12 wins and one draw in 13 games, and so leads
with 25 competition points to the 23 of West Sydney,
which lost one of its 13 matches. There is a whisper
of a team being raised to tour Britain and the
U.S.A., but the officials say they know nothing of it.
Perhaps the time is not yet ripe.
* * * *
Saturday saw the end of the first round of
Vic. League hoofball, and to decide the ultimate issue
Carlton will meet Geelong this coming week-end, and
South will bump Essendon the week following, the
winners playing off. South and Carlton have both
won 14 of the 18 games, but as the Southern
boots were propelled with extra vigor, they accumu-
lated more points, and so their wearers have the top-
most place and the right to a deciding match if
beaten. As usual, only one of last year’s “final
four” drops out—-’Wood —and Geelong steps into its
place. This is the first time in 15 years that it has
reached that giddy eminence. Only three of Satur-
day’s games counted. South had to beat ’Wood to
retain its lead, and did so with some difficulty, the
ultimate tale being—-South 53 points, ’Wood 37.
Similarly, it was necessary for Geelong to beat Rich-
mond, to keep its fourth place, as it was level with
’Roy on games won, though many percentage points
ahead. So it made no bones about the job, and pol-
ished off the yellow-and-blacks without remorse or
the ghost of a chance, winning by 70 points to 33.
Carlton had no hope of displacing South unless it
snatched 130 points to ’Varsity’s nix, and as the Old
Blues early perceived the feat to be impossible, they
contented themselves with stalling off the Students’
rushes, and casually acquiring enough points to give
them the game—74 to ’Varsity’s 69. Melbourne put
together 68 points to St. Hilda’s 49, but the episode
was of no moment to anybody. The greatest clamor
of the day was at East Melbourne, where ’Roy was
making its last effort. There was just a “possible”
of Geelong being beaten, in which ease a bare victory
would give ’Roy the preference. Also, a 60-point
win over its opponents—the ’Dons—would displace
those hefty warriors, so ’Roy went for all it could
get. Unfortunately, all it got was a six-point wallop-
ing, ’Don’s speed and training standing to it
in the last half, and capsizing ’Roy’s hopes and an-
ticipations utterly and completely. A gaudy crowd
viewed the episode, and the keenness of the struggle
moved quite a number to get “into holts,” with more
or less disastrous consequences to their countenances.
On the North Melbourne ground Essendon and
’Scray indulged in a willing, but lop-sided, argu-
ment for the second Ass. semi-final. Honors were
fairlv even up to half-time, but thereafter ’Scray,
possibly realising all of a sudden that it had the
right to a deciding match if defeated, faded away,
and let matters slide to such an extent that it
wound up with only 48 points to ’Don’s 70. ’Scray still
has its chance, but it won’t come till September 21,
by which time' the team will have become slack, and
perhaps lazy, and when it comes to meet ’Don again
or ’Don’s conquerors, the knowledge that it has
already received a sound drubbing won’t inspire it
to any extent. Meanwhile, the question as to who is
to meet ’Don in the “first” final is arousing much
argument. Brunswick and North, having played a
drawn game, were ordered to play it again next
Saturday, but in the interim someone discovered that
’Wick played a man whom the Goulburn Valley Ass.,
affiliated with the League, had just disqualified for
using ungrammatical language to a delegate and
dropping an “h.” Certainly, neither the Ass. nor
the Brunswick committee had been notified of the
disqualification, and the player says he hadn’t been
either; in fact, he says he knew nothing of any
complaint against him, though this statement seems
peculiar in the light of the fact that he was fined £ 1
at Tatura Police Court for using a split infinitive.
Also, an Ass. ’bailer, who plays with a League-
affiliated club without permission, is, ipso facto, sup-
posed to be disqualified for evermore. So Brunswick
stands a chance of losing the semi-final it drew,
though the Ass. may take the sporting view and let
it be played out. It doesn’t matter much, anyhow.
* * * »
The Messengers are mighty hooters of the
inflated sphere. In this season’s competition Eastern
Suburbs has scored 54 goals, of which “Dally”
Messenger has booted 39 and his little brother
“Wally” 10. The Messengers were towers of
strength to their side.
* * * *
Norwood Football Club, which used to
boss things in Adelaide—it held the premiership
five times running, and eight times in 11 years—
struck this year its Sedan, and its Marathon, or
Malo-Y aroslavatz —also the Limit and the Dead
Finish. _ It was playing Sturt for the barren right
to get into the “semi-finals,” by being a poor fourth
on the season’s results. It s-'mply could not hit the
space provided for the purpose. The ball was con-
stantly Thereabouts, but not quite There, and the
end of the amazing struggle was a record in ineffici-
ency—one goal 17 behinds.
* * * *
The hoofballer of to-day gets like the
crusader of old—“a warrior mailed for the
hour of need.” One Collingwood (Vie.) for-
ward, now hopelessly crippled, long wore a
protecting shin shield, while in the later Vic.
League games this season one Carltonian wears
an aluminium shin pad ; a ’Royite a , woven wire knee-
cap protector; a Melbourne ’bailer dons a special
thumb support; another an elaborate steel-plated
body-belt; while straps and ankle-stays are seen on
almost every field. Vet, with every week-end, the
casualty list gets longer.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association had bight
nominations from which to appoint three selectors.
Another attempt was made to get M. Noble into one
of the places; but the delegates wouldn’t have it,
although president Joe Garruthers’s “bury the hat-
chet” advice was given as a reason why they should.
The gentlemen turned down were Noble, Hopkins,
Poidevin, Howard and Bardsley (selector last sea-
son). An exhaustive ballot selected" Victor Trumper,
J. B. Lane (skipper of the Sydney Uni., last season’s
premier team), and the Rev. E. F. Waddy. If
there’s any tommy-axe to be buried it’s interred
quite deep enough by the selection of one of those
three.
* * * *
Tom Richardson had a tribute, as nearly
as possible comic, paid to his memory, on July
13. The great fast bowler was being buried
that afternoon. On his old ground, Ivennington Oval,
the big match, “gentlemen” against “players,” was
going on. As a last sad tribute, the “gentlemen”
and “players” called a halt from 10 minutes to four
till 10 past. But instead of spending the 20 minutes
in tears they went to tea.
* * * *
“An” England Eleven coming directly
after “The” England Eleven on the Australian
cricketers’ programme, suggested something like a
consolation stakes, but though the wickets were
pitched hard by Norwich Cathedral, in search of the
divine blessing, the same old deluge happened.
Gregory and Co. drew with an opposition that
was decidedly of the “scratch” order, and included
has-beens such as K. L. Hutchings, B. J. T. Bosan-
quet (who invented the “Bosie” ball) and Walter
Brearley (sometime Fogland’s best “express”). After
a blank first day Australia totalled 136, Bardsley
actually smiting 47, with much enterprise. Sundries
(29) was the next best. Brearley took one wicket
(clean bowled) for six, and that one was Macartney’s.
Whitty and Hazlitt crushed through “An” England
Eleven, the former bagging seven for 40, and the
latter three for 25. The total of 79 included 14
sundries. In again, Australia declared at six for 79.
“An” XI wanting 137 to win lost four for 68 (Sun-
dries 13) when Time ran out. Whitty took all four
for 29; Hazlitt none for 15; Macartney none for
11. Queenslander Maclaren, who hadn’t played for
a month, was in the team, but didn’t bowl.
* * * *
Cricketer Macartney has had offers of a
“stiddy job,” with cricket trimmings, from both
India and England. Up goes the wail about The Gap
that will be Hard to Fill in Australian cricket.
Rabbits! A poor compliment to Australia’s teeming
reserves 1
* * * *
The final round of Sydney baseballl pre-
miership struggle on Saturday was a sorry business
for the leading teams. Burwood, which had sat
dejectedly on a very low rung of the ladder, sud-
dently sprang to its feet with a loud howl, and,
rushing like an army of Philistines on University,
slew it with 16 runs to 14 in a six-innings’ struggle.
Lane Cove got on its legs and clawed Leichhardt by
two to one in nine innings. Leichhardt and Univer-
sity still lead, with 22 points each, so an extra
final will be played off on Saturday to see which
shall occupy the throne, and wear the crown of
imperishable glory, and kiss Polly.
* * '* *
That the Victorian Inter-Club Cycling
Association has got a big grip on the road racers of
Victoria was demonstrated by the success of the
Cycle Traders’ Annual 100 Miles Race, the sixth of
the series. The event was run off in splendid weather
and over roads that were better than usual, but was
not altogether too fortunate in its working out. One
rider sustained a smash which resulted in concussion
of the brain. It is feared the base of the skull is
fractured, and at time of writing he is still uncon-
scious. Then a protest was lodged against the first
five men to streak home, on the ground that they
had the benefit of outside pacing—which, if it is
proved to be true, will drop them into outer dark-
ness. The winner, pro tem., till the protest is
upheld or dismissed, was E. Malley, who went out with
30min. handicap, and fled or shailed over the dis-
tance in shr. 22min. 45sec., and thereby, provided he
isn’t hit in the neck with the acquired the
cheque for £3O. The other four men who are await-
ing glory or disqualification are J. Barker (who won
a Thistle bike), T. J. Mills (winner of a Clifton
jigger), G. Cameron (temporary owner-elect of a
Barb, “spider”), and A. Treble (prospective proprie-
tor of a £5 ss. cheque). They were all long-
markers, and the best the scratch men could do was
to whirl in sixth and ninth. The fastest time was
put up by G. W. Bell, the scratch man, who finished
sixth. He bolted over the distance in shr. 3min.
14sec., and, in the event of the protest being upheld,
will be winner, and grab the £3O cheque. It was
a great race but a sad ending.
* * * *
The massive Dunlop Shield has found' a
permanent abiding place at last, in the locker of the
Western Suburbs Cycling Club (Sydney). The
club had previous legs-in in 1907 and 1909, and after
defeating the holders of the premiership in the
first round, tore vigorously over the remainder of
the foe, and in the final filled first, second, fourth
and fifth places, thereby losing 12 points only to
Eastern Suburbs’ 24. The 30 miles were spun over
in 80min. 25sec. —-a tall pace, which left no time
for a drink on the way.
* * * *
The start of the S.A. racing season by
the Adelaide Club’s Grand National meeting was a
big success. The youngsters’ race, Fulham Park
Plate, went to a Machine Gun filly, Rapine, and the
newly-instituted Guineas to R. M. Hawker’s Tadanga
(by Pistol —Cardinal and Black). First and second
in both events were fillies. Of- the big jumping
races, Bowman’s Hardrada won the Hurdles, and
Gregory’s Lockwing the Steeple. Over £43,500.
went through the totalisator in the two days, and
the dividends worked out thus: For winners, £l6
35., £9 165., £9 135., £2 Bs., £3 135., £l9 Is.,
£l3 165., £9 155., £4 odd (three times), £23
25., £3 Bs. and £l2 2s. But it is over the second
horse that backers per machine score. This
meeting showed dividends of £7, £B, £lO (twice),
£29, and £63 12s. for the beasts that nearly ,won
but didn’t. How much does Alexander Phelim
Galilee, the bookie, pay on the animal that nearly
wins but doesn’t?
* # * *
The illicit betting lists issued nowadays
are a lovely satire on the anti-gambling law
which prohibits newspaper publication of the
odds. These lists are for the information
of punters who have practically made up their
minds to back their fancies at the best price
obtainable, and who, in former days, would have
been protected, in a measure, from the rapacity of
the bag-carrier by newspaper criticism of the betting
market. For instance, the absurdity of the following
figures would have moved even the daily press to
scornful comment. They are taken from a sheet
issued last week by a very, big bookmaker, and repre-
sent the “cream” of the illicit betting market. Thus,
entries for the Melbourne Sta,kes are priced:—
3 at 14 to 1 12 at 33 to 1
3 at 16 to 1 21 at 50 to 1
10 at 20 to 1 97 at 66 to 1
9 at 25 to 1
and upwards. Twenty-five horses are quoted at not
more than 25 to one, 37 at not more than 33 to one,
and 58 at not more than 50 to one —six weeks before
the race. The other 97 gees may be discarded
for the sake of argument, though it is quite possible
that one of them may be the winner. We will con-
sider only the 58 entrants quoted on last week’s list
at 50 to one, or much less. Two-thirds of that lot
will probably be scratched before the day—but no
matter. If John Jones backed each of them for £1
at list price, he would lose £7 for certain if a 50 to
one chance won, £24 if a 33 to one chance won, £B2
if a 25 to one chance won, and £43 if a 14 to one
favorite scored what the papers called “a punter’s
triumph.” But if John Jones induced his friend
Jim Brown to open and close a one-man tote on the
race, and backed each of those 58 horses for £l,
what would happen? Brown would draw £6 for the
tote’s commission, and Jones would get back £52
of his money. Consider the bookmaker, what a
philanthropic “convenience” he is 1
* * * *
Greenhorns are tempted to go pony-racing
when they read this sort of stuff headlined in the
papers: “Ascot Races. Great Day for Backers.
Killorn Rides Four Winners.” Ascot being the Mel-
bourne suburban course where John Wren holds
sway, ahd Killorn being the crack horseman thereof.
In six races he steered four favorites to victory and
rode two losers. The four favorites started at five
to four on, seven to four on, six to four against and
five to four against. The other two winners, ridden
by other jockeys, were a second favorite at four to
one and an outsider at 10 to one. So a £1 invest-
ment on Killorn’s six mounts at s.p. would show a
profit of £2 2s. 6d. for the day. And this is a
great day for backers!
* * * *
The atmosphere of quiet calm that has
surrounded the preparatory work of the tug-o’-wars-
men at Sydney' Stadium was last week lashed into
wild waves of excitement by the announcement that
the Heekenberg family was entering a team. The
Heekenberg family is generally described as '“The
Parramatta Pygmies.” The weight of the 10 mem-
bers who will haul on the rope aggregates one
ton, which means an average of 16 stone. The
ages range from 21 to 29. It was really to provide
walking space for this family when it came to town
that Allen Taylor started widening the streets of
the city. So now there are over a score of teams
entered for the great hauling contest, and the
Mclntosh, overcome by the sight of so much great-
ness, has dropped another £4O into the bag they
will cut up among them. The final, the great In-
ternational affair, will be a real Babylonian hotch-
potch of races.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Melbourne Board of Health
action re the numbering of seats at theatres has
raised anew the old question as to whether it
wouldn’t be a fair thing for the V.R.O. to number
the grandstand seats at Flemington, and charge a
booking fee of 2s. 6d. on Cup Day. A heap of money
—two or three thousand pounds—could be added to
the club’s revenue by this simple device, and a couple
of valuable races endowed thereby. A time limit for
the reserving of booked seats at that intensely over-
crowded function would be cheerfully recognised, and
a lot of unpleasantness and futile endeavor in space-
hunting avoided. If the booking offices were estab-
lished on the course, and not in town, the railway
traffic would happen exactly as before, for the people
who are determined to get seats would have to go
early to buy tickets; and as for the extra cost—what
is 2s. 6d. to the squanderer of cash on Cup Day?
If it were a consideration to the squanderer, it could
be deducted from the outlay on frocks or bets. An-
other fair thing would be a sixpenny charge for ad-
mission to the Flemington Flat on the first Tuesday
in November, seeing that the I-lenley-on-the-Yarra
autocrats are allowed to reserve a large tract of fiver
bank on their annual regatta occasion. Under pre-
sent conditions, 50,000 people, or thereabouts, get a
view of the Cup race gratis, whilst most of them are
losing several sixpences to bookmakers, who wax fat
on their love of gambling. A “tanner” a head from
those at present unproductive “patrons of the Flat,”
would yield fully £lOOO to the club’s stake-monev
funds. The owners of the gees that give the enter-
tainment are entitled to the hope of a cut in at anv
extra stake money thus obtainable. And Flemington
Flat, treated as a showman’s reserve on only one day
out of the. 365, would remain just as free to the
public as is the soutli bank of Melbourne’s muddy
river. Democracy would suffer no wrong.
* * * *
Conundrum: When is a foal not a foal V
Answer (just supplied by the Jockey Club of Eng-
land! : When it is born dead. At Lingfield races,
there was an event giving a 31b. allowance to a mare’s
first produce,. and the winner was objected to on the
ground that it was not that. It wasn’t, but its only
predecessor had been born dead. This is a nice point,
for on the one hand there is no first at all to take
the allowance, but on the other hand a second foal is
getting the advantage considered right for a first.
The Jockey Club eventually decided that the dead
animal didn’t signify.
* * * *
The necessity of visiting Australia to chal-
lenge for the Davis Cup, has caused much talk in
London and Paris on a question of sporting ethics.
There was no point in England and France both send-
ing teams across the world, so they had a knock-out
match as preliminary. England won, and has now
named its team to come to Australia. But it isn’t
the team that beat France; in fact, France would
probably beat it comfortably. Many think that if
England couldn’t or wouldn’t see the thing through,
it should have stood aside and let France have a try.
It is an arguable point J and, anyway, there is no
proof that the: absolutely best Frenchmen could have
made the journey either.


im ■
m
w
'Md
m
Mg
y
m
mmmmm
* - k- BHWSaag ■ --
; ffl i
iH
Mmm
■ A
■■r
s
(MR
Si
a ■
i *„y.v>;
the '
■ ■ ■V.
SHOE
MARZ
TOE
PATENT'
COLT
BLUCHER
BALMORALS
j
DULL KID |
' . TOPS j
PRICE
22/6
quality snoes lor men retail at from
18 6 to 27 6, and are leaders in sales and popularity,
-There are many guaraiiteVwitfi every pate
FOR STYJU& 'BOOK. ' *et^jff§l|S
Richmond, Vic. , ,
_
N?IO
may: be
OBTAINED WITHIN
“An’ I've left - ma siller
inmabreehs!"
'Hi
.
m
Y .
WATSONS WHISKY
No 10
Exercises for Health.
h
ĥ
I can make you STRONG AND HEALTHY. Will
you give me the chance to do • so ?
All that’s necessary is for you to become a student
of my Postal Course of Physical Culture, and carry
out my exercises for 15 minutes each morning.
You’ll be keen on iny system. It’s so simple. No
apparatus of any kind is required. There’s no waste
energy. Every ounce of exertion is put to best ac-
count. Results come quickly. Maybe, you are
robust and strong. But there’s a weak link in every
one of us. No matter how strong or healthy YOU
are, YOU can be stronger and healthier.
My POSTAL COURSE OF PHYSICAL CULTURE
will benefit your whole system. Special attention
will be given to your weak spots. Every muscle in
your body will be exercised just as its importance
demands.
Remember, scientific exercise is Nature’s stimulant.
Eyery man requires scientific exercise to replace the
waste tissue in his system. My methods are founded
judged by the results they are achieving throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
Here is an example:—
“I am getting along splendidly with the exer-
cises, and am feeling much stronger and am in
better health.
“G.R.H., Subiaco (W.A.).”
I want to post you my 18-page folder, “Physical
Instruction by Post,” which gives full particulars of,
and the fee for, my instruction.
Tear ou\ this advertisement and post to me, and
I’ll immediately send one. Kindly send three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
61 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
At the
Automobile Club of Australia’s
Petrol Consumption Test,
i c
held August 10,
SHELL
9 9
SPIRIT
was used by
FIRST,
SECOND
THIRD.
L. W. DODGE S CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTops and Steel Shod,
5/8, 6/6, 8/6,10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards, Wicket-keeping Gaunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of ■
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ħ
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
PILE SUFFERERS
can be quickly rid of their affliction if they will take a box or two
of Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills.
These wonderful Pills are prepared from a special formula., and
are combined so accurately that they give immediate relief, and a
speedy, certain cure in all cases. They cleanse the system of all
impurities, soothe the irritated membranes, causing the ulcerous
condition to cease, and restoring good health once again.
Your chemist or storekeeper should be able to supply you with
Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills. Price, 3/- per box, post free. If not
obtainable locally, order direct from the Sole Proprietors: ANDREW
MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
h
QQ (double‘o')
Old Orkney Whisky.
15h<t FIT OF A SHOE!
ĥ
Though style and durability must be considered in the
purchase of Footwear, fit is of first importance.
If a shoe does not fit accurately, it fails to give comfort, loses
its smart appearance, and, being subject to improper strain,
wears out quickly.
In Rigney Shoes for men, fit always accompanies their style
distinction and durability.
The reason for this is because Rigney Shoes are made over
anatomically perfect lasts, from the most carefully selected
leather, and by skilled workmen, who give every care and
attention to their work.
The boot illustrated is an American Model, made'from Choice
Vici bid.
Price 23/6
In Velour Calf, 23/6 and 25/-
Also in Shoes 19/6,21 /=and 22/6.
Postage 9di extra.
Write to-day for our Catalogue.
The Rig'ney vShoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., and 179 a Pitt St. # Sydney.


THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA Limited. Balance Sheet, February 29, 1912.
LIABILITIES.
Capital, £4,500,000;
less reserve
liability,
£3,000,000;
paid-up .. £1,500,000 0 , 0
Reserve Fund—
Invested i n
the names of
trust ees as
per contra,
£1,000,000 ;
not specifi-
cally invest-
ed, £400,000 1,400,000 0 0
Balance o f un-
divided profits 147,766 17 0
Circulation
Deposits (i n-
clu d mg in-
scribed stock
deposits)
Bills payable
and other lia-
bilities (in-
cluding r e-
serves held
against con-
tingencies)
£224,524 0 0
23,228,911 9
2,035,439 1
£3,047,706 17
25,488,874 10 8
£28.586,641 7 8
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash bal-
ances •• •• •* **
Bullion and advances on bullion..
Money at call and short notice m
London
Investments —-
Reserve Fund —•
Consols, £726,502 ;
local loans
(Imperial Gov-
ernment stock),
£238,726 ; 2|
per cent,
g u a i a n teed
stock, £34,712 £1,000,000 0
0
£4,653,652
187,882
615,000
5 10
2 8
0 0
Other Investments —-
Consols, an d
other stocks
of, or guar-
anteed by, the
Imperial Gov-
e r n m e n t,
£190,986/5/0 ;
India Govern-
ment sterling
stocks, £49,699
15/-; colonial
Government,
public boards,
and munici-
pal, stocks and
d e b e n t ures,
£510,657/14/5 751,343 15 2
1,751,343 15 2
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
at London office ..
3,536,209 10 2
£10,744,087 13 10
Bills discounted, loans and other
the branches and
securities at
in London
Bank premises
in Au s tralia
and New Zea-
land
Less appropria-
tion from pro-
fits . .
London leasehold
premises _..
Reserves against
same and ac-
crued interest
£404,343 2 9
10,000 0 0
£142,304 19 4
24,007 4 6
17,279,912 16 3
394,343 2 9
118,297 14 10
£28,536,641 7 8
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on 31st August, 1911
Less dividend and bonus —February, 1912 ..
£147,510 9
105,000 0
Leaving a balance of . . .. .. .. , , ,+f,,i
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of “ad and ooutrau
debts, and other contingencies
Less:
Remuneration to the local directors —and salaries
and allowances to the colonial staff
General expenses in the colonies, including rent,
taxes, stationery, etc.
Remuneration to the Board of Directors and
auditors, salaries of London office staff,
rent, taxes, stationery and general expenses '
■ income tax
£346,240 10 9
£106,549 18
46,240 19
16,444 18
8,748 7
£177,984 3 2
Deduct: , /
Bonus to staff .. •• ‘
Appropriation to write down bank premises in Australia ana
New Zealand .. •• ••>
Transfer to Reserve Fund .. ..
£23,000 0 0
10,000
30,000
Balance of undivided profits at this date
If. P. STURGIS; j
C. PARBURY, >■ Directors.
W. B. PERCEVAL, )
London, 9th July. 1912.
A. C. WILLIS, Manager.
C. M. SHANNON, Accountant.
£42,510 9 5
168,256 7 7
£210,766 17 0
63,000 0 0
£147,766 17 0
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act,
report to the shareholders as follows, , ... T i pa J office, and have had access to
We have examined the above Balance-Sheet with the books at the Head
the branch accounts transmitted to the I eac investments, and the bills of exchange held in
sn d°: arga?
that such Balance-Sheet is properly drawn up, so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
Company’* affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as
shown by the books of the Company and the said branch accounts.
WHINNEY, SMITH and WHINNEY, i
London, E.C., 9th July, 1912. Chartered Accountants, (Auditors.
THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE PROPRIETORS WAS HELD IN LONDON ON
22nd July, 1912.
Mr. H. P. STURGIS in the Chair.
The Chairman moved the adoption of the report and accounts as foUows:—
Gentlemen, —In moving the adoption of the report and accounts, I am glad to be able to congratulate
the shareholders on the excellent results of the half-year under review. After setting aside £30,000 as an
addition to the reserve fund, £lO,OOO to writing down our premises in Australia and New Zealand, and
£23,000 to provide a bonus to the staff, we are able to make a distribution to the shareholders equal to
:14 per cent., and carry forward the substantial sum of £42,766. During the half-year Australia and New
Zealand have continued to enjoy a period of prosperity. The general expansion of trade has continued,
while there is still a steady demand for land, on what would appear to be generally a sound basis. The
wool clip shows a slight increase over the previous year, and producers have been able to obtain satisfactory
prices. The estimates of the wheat crop, which suffered badly in some districts'from want of rain, point
to a considerably smaller yield, but growers have been compensated to some extent by the excellent prices
obtained for their produce. Dairying is an increasing and promising industry, but in the past season has
been adversely affected in several districts through scarcity of feed, owing to want of rain.. As regards
the future, the position may be considered generally very satisfactory. In the early part of this year there
was considerable anxiety on account of the extreme dryness of the season —the drought being especially
.severe in New South W’ales and South Australia. This anxiety was justified to a great extent in the
pastoral industry, as there have been serious losses of cattle, sheep and lambs, and especially of the latter,
and there is little doubt that this must inevitably result in some decrease in next season’s wool clip. On
the other hand, as regards the agricultural districts, splendid and universal rains came in time to save the
crops and ensure their immediate future.
Turning now to the figures:—
In the Balance-Sheet the liquid and easily realisable assets, consisting of: —
Specie on hand and cash balances
Bullion and advances on bullion .. .. ..
Money at call and short notice in London
Balance of remittances and drafts in transit and bills receivable at London
Office and investments .. •• •• •• •• •• • • _
amount to . . . . • ■ £10,744,000
which, apart from the £1,000,000 set aside for reserve fund, represents about 7/8 in the £1 of all our
liabilities to the public, consisting of: —
Circulation
Bills payable and ..
DeP ° SltS “ and amounting to .‘.'£25,488,000
Comparing the figures with those of the previous half-year, the usual fluctuation, incidental to t
season of the year, and to the increased employment of funds at the later date in financing the m ? ve ™ .
the wool clip and crops, is seen in the reduced amount of specie, etc., and the corresponding me
the item “Balance of remittances and drafts in transit, and bills receivable at London °® ce - . . * toiy
this there is an increase of nearly £1,000,000 in the figures of our Balance-Sheet, due
growth in deposits, and an increase in bills payable, while, on the other side of the
substantial increase is shown in our advances in the colonies. In this connection there s the
and steady demand for money, arising from a general activity m business, * nd for that the
country—resulting in a hardening of the money market. I would call your attention to the f
reserve fund is now £1,400,000, and that the premises in Australasia now stand in our boofe ar
£394,343—a figure, of course, very much below their actual value. As regards our ; but
not necessary to make any provision for depreciation at the date of our Balance-S e _ > , , t ’ ake
ffince then there has beena "serious fall in Consols and other gilt-edge securities, and we have had to mak
provision for that depreciation based on current quotations at a date towards the end of June, m
statement of profits, under the heading of general expenses in the colonies, rc is an bo nus to the
£4OOO, of which about £2OOO is due to the incidence of taxation. With reference to ® in a
staff, lam sure the shareholders will cordially endorse the action of the d^ ec \ or ® in pofte n how
prac+ical way, on this occasion, the valuable services of the staff, for it ca ™ ot e repe * , int ou t,
much the profits earned by the bank depend on the judgment and yLs
however, that such bonuses can only be given at rare intervals, and m exceptional General
I would ask the shareholders to join with the directors in conveying to Mr-Haßamo (th h
Manager), Mr. Russell (the Chief Inspector), Mr. Willis (the Manager m London) and fa> y
serving under them, our appreciation of their services. In this < J ol^ ec J o ™ 1 include Mr Hallamore’s
have to announce that this is the last occasion on which we shall be able to Mr.
name in our vote of thanks to the staff. Mr. Hallamore has expressed his desire to etire from the po
General Manager on account of advancing years, and the Board have, < retactoKJ, acoegw
resSion to take effect on the 31st October next. Mr. Hallamore has been n the service
for a period of 38 years, and has filled the important post of General s Mr Hallamore has always
the entire satisfaction of the Board. In the exercise of his important fmrtionsM. HU Directorg> but
shown ability, tact and a most excellent judgment; he will not only sure^bes taff wiil regard his
also by the many clients of the bank with whom he came m contact '^most'carefui consideration. It
retirement as a personal loss, for the interests of all under hi . , • we ii. ea med rest. In Mr.
only remains for us to wish him many years of health in which J I Russell, who is at
Hallamore’s place as General Manager the Board have appointed Mr. Charles lnspector since
present Acting General Manager during Mr Hallamore’s preJiously had valuable banking
1902. Mr. Russell entered the service of this bank in 1884, = service including that of Acting
experience elsewhere, and has filled several important posi Board' have every confidence that
General Manager during Mr. Hallamore’s visit to England in: 1907 The Board ta. «
in Mr. Russell they have an officer fully competent to carry fi * th f tb P bank rende rs him eminently
General Manager, for which his large experience of all the affairs oi
suitable. ~ . . . ~ rrh t the Directors’ report and statement of account*,
I now beg to move the following resolution:— That the directors
now submitted, be adopted.
The motion was put and carried unanimously.
A Projected Reform which Seems to
Have Dropped Dead.
About a year ago the Governments of N. S.
Wales and Victoria, in reluctant response to
a press campaign against the laxity of the
authorities in regard to. venereal disease,
made more or less convincing .demonstrations
of an intention to grapple seriously with the
matter. The Murray Cabinet, which was
really more of a Bedstead than a Cabinet,
appointed an advisory committee ‘ to inquire
into and report upon the prevalence ot
syphilis and the best methods to be adopted
to check its spread.” The McGowen Cab-
inet talked gallantly of requiring all the
hospitals in receipt of subsidies to admit
sufferers from venereal diseases as ordinary
patients ; of making facilities for tbe appli-
cation of the Wassermann test available
throughout the whole State; and of seeing
to it that all classes should have full infor-
mation of., and easy access to, the recently-
discovered Salvarsan cure for syphilis. The
Victorian advisory committee, furnished a
staggering report as to the universal preva-
lence of venereal diseases in the then Weary
State. Also, it made a number of recom-
mendations, some of them drastic (for ex-
ample it suggested that the Legislature
should make it a penal offence for anyone
to knowingly communicate one of the dis-
eases in question, or for any person other
, than a qualified doctor to treat such cages) ;
and some of them mild and innocuous ( e.g .,
the proposal that pamphlets on the ‘‘Young
Man Problem,” the Hygiene of Sex, etc.,
should be guardedly circulated). The medi-
cal profession grew interested at the belated
prospect of a reformed condition of affairs.
On every hand,' doctors rose' up and drove
home the grave national danger of allowing
the Red Plague to rage on unchecked. A
; couple of them held forth in St. Paul’s
Cathedral,- Melbourne, on the subject. They
pointed out the wicked foolishness of .the
idea that these complaints are the merited
punishment of sinful ways; a fact which is
sufficiently obvious, since fully 50 per cent,
of the victims are innocent sufferers. It was
mentioned, authoritatively, that 40 per cent,
was a conservative estimate of the number
of young men who contracted venereal dis-
ease year by year ; that 45 per cent, of
sterile marriages were due to this cause, and
that the average mortality among the off-
spring of affected persons during the period
of infancy amounted to 75 per cent. Suffi-
cient hair-raising information was provided
by the profession, in the course of a couple
of months, on the subject of the Red Plague
and kindred horrors to galvanise any Ad-
ministration of energy and imagination and
courage into instant action. However,
neither N. S. Wales nor Victoria has a Gov-
ernment of that sort. Both of them need, as
a matter of course, to be kicked violently
into any move of a controversial nature.
Unless a proposition has votes dinging to it,
they habitually turn it down in accordance
with Rule I. of the game of Party Govern-
ment. There are no votes hanging to any
sincere measure for the extirpation of ven-
ereal disease. On the contrary. As Dr.
Rowland B. Harrold told the S. Aus.
branch of the B.M.A. the other day:—
When the Governments of the earth fully. realise
the contagious nature of syphilis, and place it with
other similar conditions as a notifiable disease, then,
and then only, will we be on the true road to stamp
it out by prevention.
The Government which does its duty to the
extent of making syphilis a notifiable dis-
ease, and penalising those who knowingly
communicate any venereal complaint, will
gain no immediate popularity. Further-
more, it will stand to scandalise and enrage
an immense herd of unreasoning fanatics of
the Wowser persuasion. The politicians
know it, and are acting accordingly. In
brief, the position is that the health of the
community is being sacrificed daily to help
keep the community’s political bosses in
office. But so much that is of value to the
coihmunity is sacrificed habitually in the
name of Party Government that a little
thing like this is hardly worth mentioning.
Move On.
This decision of Sydney Municipal Council
to move on the ladies who congregate around
the drapery emporium windows and gather
a'bout the doors of tony restaurants should
have far-reaching results. It should do more
good than the visit of a dozen Chapzander
missions. Eve’s besetting sin is drapery.
What is it brings the average frail sister to
the dust? Is it love of some gay inconstant
George? Not on your life! It is the lure
of the silken underskirt. That the silken
underskirt rarely transpires does not alter
the fact that it is the lure of it that scatters
the barriers of civilisation and bowls out the
Ten Commandments for a blob. AVhat is it
puts men in money difficulties and starts
them on a course of “dipping” which one
day lands them in the skilly? Is it backing
horses? Don’t believe it! It is the wife s
love of drapery, and when the wretched de-
faulter is asked what he did with the money
he lies bravely, and says “horses.” The
statement is cruelty to animals. Shop-
keepers spend an enormous sum on the dress-
ing of their windows, and a good window-
dresser is worth a heap of money. Why?
Because the destroyer of souls who runs the
show knows that the seed he sows in the
window will bring him a bounteous crop
from the swarm of fluttering doves that
hover round his panes and end by spending
the housekeeping allowance on a duck ot a
hat, or a pearl of a frock, or something ot
that sort. If the police _ hurry on
the woman who stops outside a huge
and well-baited window, the weaker
vessel will go determined to make up
the lost delight at the next one; but
if a vigilant officer is waiting there to
shoo her onward, the chances are she will
reach home with her money intact, bhould
the City Council maintain its austere atti-
tude long enough, display windows will drop
out of existence, and quite a. number of
pale-blooded window-dressers will go on the
land and become brown-skinnod and bearded
producers. Also, the proceeding will largely
assist in solving the Mary Ann question.
At present, Marianne works in a factory
and has a ninepenny tea in town for the
pleasure of tripping round, one of a party,
and looking at the shop-windows. When
the lure of the frock behind the plate-glass
is gone she will commence her reform by
going home and helping mother, and thereby
she will get some knowledge of how to wash
up, if she learns nothing else. And it is
really that question of the washing up that
Civilisation is likely to split upon. Home
life will grow upon her, like any other dis-
tinct novelty, and she will, naturally, set to
work to fit herself for it, and the end will be
marriage and a husband who will have less
indigestion than his mate of yesteryear. And
anything that makes for less indigestion
means elimination of rheumatism, religion
and cold feet —all good things to be got rid
of.
The Foster Fraser type of traveller; —the
sort that scrambles over a country like a
hunted cat going up a chimney, and mee-
yows dismally in one volume —is of no per-
manent use to anyone. He is a distracting
circumstance in national life, and the dust he
scatters in his flight makes people sneeze.
The advice he shouts from the window of
his express train, or mumbles to a reporter
whilst he fumbles with his luggage, is
founded on the little he has read, the very
little he has observed, and the great deal he
has been told by the people who overfed him.
His one asset is purely literary—he knows
how to buckle up poor old familiar Truth
into cheap and astonishing corsets and sell
her in a new print dress. The public realises
that when it has bought and read his book,
and the intellectual dust has settled. The
other sort of traveller is the land seeker who
doesn’t live by writing up the whole round
Earth in a superficial way, but has come
along to quietly inspect the country and look
for a homestead site. His honest purpose is
a guarantee of good faith and thoroughness,
and so, when he speaks, his words are gen-
erally worth noting. It is particularly
pleasing when he waxes enthusiastic about
a region which the small liar has blasted
with his most vicious efforts. The two
Americans who have been calling the Terri-
tory “God’s country,” and asking wonder-
ingly why the Commonwealth Government
does not go ahead with the northern trans-
continental line supply some much-needed
mental refreshment to those Australians
who want to see the maligned place get a
fair deal. A little more independent testi-
mony of this sort from reliable and pains-
taking travellers, and the liars and false
prophets will start to lose their voices.
When the Navigation Bill was first intro-
duced a howl went up from the pro-nigger
crowd in Australia that, unless this measure
was emasculated by exemptions and things,
Port Darwin would be boycotted by the
steamship lines which serve it at present,
and Ruin would materialise. For several
days the Tory dailies spoke of Darwin in
the sad, pitying tones that are employed in
the presence of a dying child of vast pro-
miser Items like the following were fre-
quent :
COLORED CREWS.
NAVIGATION BILL PROPOSALS OBJECTED TO.
HOW NORTHERN PORTS WILL BE AFFECTED.
Sydney, August 6.
Much concern is felt by residents of Darwin and
other northern ports at the prospect of the regular
steamer service being discontinued, owing to the
provision in the Navigation Bill now under considera-
tion. Etc., etc.
Latterly, Darwinites have been taking a
hand in the discussion, and it turns out
that they are not concerned at all. It is
known that, in consideration of a reasonable
subsidy, the two companies which now call
at Darwin are perfectly willing to make
their vessels all-white. There is no doubt
that a Government which represents a
people which has declared almost unani-
mously for a White Commonwealth will
meet the shipping people in this matter. It
is, of course, on the cards that the shipping
co.’s demands may be unreasonable. But
then it is also on the cards that the Gov-
ernment may take the obvious remedy and
provide for the needs of Australia’s North-
ern port by means of a nationalised service.
Sp, taking one thing with another, the Dar-
winites who have intelligence enough to
matter are not worrying.
Perhaps you have some special engagement, have
a headache and afraid to go. You needn’t be.
Stearns’ Headache Cure makes the going possible.*


D/Ufi ETC?
MOTOMGtNCIB
F. N.
10/14 : 10/24
Cars of Distinction
AUSTIN '°,sU
CUTTING
Inspection of our Cars will demonstrate
to you the high point in car construction
reached. They are distinguished by solid
reliability and efficiency —fully competent
to meet the demands of every occasion.
We will send, post free, full information
of any and every car. Any trial or
demonstration will be arranged on
request.
DAIMLER
15 : 20
25 s 37
The Car you want—in
point of price, capacity,
power, finish, nationality
—is included in the
Dalgety Agencies.
D ALGETY & CO. LTD.
DELAU NAY-B E LLEVILLE
130-138 PHillip St., Sydney
Bonrße St., Melbourne ; Adelaide St., Brisbane
HALLEY LORRIES
To Carry from 15cwt. to 6 Tons.
ill illllll
grip
mm
Mj:
• •
• -
» >;«cj
'
u " •’>> ..-A. >
b
ix
1®
,


COUGH gone
SCOTTS
EMULSION
CHEAPEST in the END.^
The strength-restoring pow-
ers of Scott’s Emulsion are
proved not by months but
by 37 years stringent tests
and proved results.
All throat and chest
complaints
—all weaknesses due to poor
nutrition are banished by
this pure,palatable emulsion.
This is only one of
thousands of letters: |
"After taking the contents of one 0
bottle of Scott’s Emulsion, my cough
is quite gone. My doctor recommended
Scott’s Emulsion and stated as his
opinion that it was the best prepara-
tion of its kind, by far the cheapest in
the end. It has been very fully borne
out in my own case. Mr. P. J. Hart,
Heidelberg Road, Alphingion, Mel-
bourne, Victoria. 11.5.11.
Observe, the doctor said SCOTT’S
Emulsion, not an imitation or substi-
tute. Therefore, do not ask merely
for emulsion; ASK FOR SCOTT’S
Emulsion and see the Trade Mark.
ħ
If the emn’sion you buy does
not bear this trade mark, it
is not SCOTT’S. Therefore,
see the mark before you buy
—a guarantee of SCOTT
purity and genuineness.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
ANOTHER FAMOUS DOCTOR TESTIFIES
TO THE VALUE OF
SAMOL
for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and Ivin-
dred Complaints. £>v. J. Doberer, Director of the
Hospital of the “Brothers of Mercy,” Linz, writes: —
“I applied Samol and Salimenthol in the case of
a patient suffering from a general attack of rheuma-
tism of the joints, and who had a temperature of
oyer 104 F. In the course’ of 10 days under this
treatment all troubles disappear. The quick, sooth-
ing effect of Samol was amazing.”
SAMOL
ji the result of research work of a celebrated Aus-
trian physician, Dr. Scheuble, of Vienna, who has
received many honors for his discoveries.
Samol is sold in tubes, price 1/6, 3/9, and 6/-,
and the Salimenthol Tablets in cylinders, price 3/6.
ajnd can be ordered through any chemist, or obtained,
plost free, from the Australian agent, H. A. Goddard,
So. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Brisbane ; or
tranches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
ydney : 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle: 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland. [1
Allcockts
PLASTERS
Rheumatism in Shoulder
can be relieved a nd cured by
them* Also invaluable for
Pains, Stiffness or Sore-
ness of joints or muscles.
Apply wherever there is Pain.
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion, etc.
BrandretKs Pills
ENTIRELY VEGETABLE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO.,
Birkenhead. ENGLAND.
The Australian
Arrol-Johnston
Specially Designed.
AN Australian pup, from the famous breed of
44 15-9 ” Arrol-Johnstons that won the team
award in the \9\\ International Light Car
Race, and obtained record orders from H*M. War
Office for cross-country work*
A
A USTRALIAN
_ AGENTS: —SYDNEY: Eyes & Crowle;
A ADELAIDE: Murray Aunger, Ltd.; BRISBANE : Howard Cycle
& Motor Co.; PERTH: Perth Motor House; HOBART: H. C.
Heathorn & Co.; MELBOURNE: Essendon Motor Garage, Moonee
Ponds.
ABERDEEN
(Regd.) TARPAULINS
WA
4
£
Mi
We specialise on their manufacture and make them unbeatable. Moderate Prices are made possible
by enormous sales. Sold by all good storekeepers. _
Ask for “ABERDEEN ” (Regd.) Tarpaulins. Tents, Flys, Filters, Water Bags,
Rugs, etc. Write for Sam les and Prices.
SMITH, COPELAND & CO. LTD.,
204-8 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
AGENCIES
VICTORIA—J. Bartram
Street, Brisbane;
Seabrook & Neal,
& Son, King Street, Melbourne; QUEENSLAND-H. I. H. Ross, Edward
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—C. Whiting, Currie Street, Adelaide; TASMANIA—
Collins Street, Hobart; WEST AUSTRALIA—A. Balharry, Perth.
Pitman’s Commercial Encyclopedia
and Dictionary of Business.
Edited by J. A. SLATER, R.A., LL.P>.
(London), assisted by upwards of 50
specialists, as contributors Profusely illua'rated. In 4 vols., each 450 pp. Crown 4to, Cloth 30-
net (7/6 net per vol.) ; half-leather, 42/- net (10,6 net per vol.).
Complete prospectus post free of all principal Sydney booksellers.
London : SIR ISAAC PITMAN St SONS, LTD., 1 Amen Corner, E.C.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is the
kind you want, not some
other kind. Insist upon get-
ting “Ayer’s.”
Dominion Accordeons
Are,High=Grade Musical Instruments
and excel in their beauty of design,
solidity of construction, exactness of
tuning and superior quality of tone.
They range in price from 12/- to
30/-. ONE" of the best is—
fe£J33SSSSE*?i
S3S
Dominion Accor-
deon, No. 117,
Size I\Y\ x 654 ins.
Three sets reeds,
three acting stops.
Ninefold Triple bel-
lows, with all cor-
ners metal bound,
polished ebonised
tops and mouldings.
Fitted with Brass
Amplifying Trumpets
on keyboard, very
powerful tone.
Price, 29/-
Ask for Complete Illustrated Catalogue
And name of nearest Agent.
Jackson & Macdonald
Druitt Street, Sydney
“Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
ESTABLISHED 11874.
FOR "
COUGHS .
fllrirndq
UjkdMc
eg
FOR
COLDS
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for " OWBRIDGE’S”
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL. ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Tailor-Made Costumes
New Patterns Just
Opened for
SPRING
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
h
Just the very thing
for your pocket,
neither too large nor too small, too
thick nor too thin, but just right.
Handy ? almost mechani-
cally you perform the action
necessary to bring up the lead, so
it’s ready for use the instant it is
taken from the Pocket.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH’S
Koh-i-noor
Propelling
Pencils.
Fitted with the famous “Koh-i-noor
lead.
—Always ready for use.
—Never require sharpening.
—Do not get out of order.
Of Stationers, 6c, everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTIWIUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
ĥ
“LINSEED COMPOUND’’ for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
John L.: You have a fine capacity for
passion, John. A man who is capable of working
himself up into such an ungovernable rage over the
discovery of one alleged chestnut in a paper which
is inundated with gags day and night, should do
something really notable (say) on being publicly
kicked, or having his beer filched from him, or some
genuine wrong of that sort. Think over it, John.
And, John, how many thousand people do you think
a paper would have to employ so that it could be
sure that, among them, they would remember every
joke that had ever been published, and so bowl out
every fraud who tried to sell a chestnut for cash ?
Consider that, John. Of course, we have only your
wo-d that that jest was a chestnut, and you may be
a liar, John. Also, John, you may be a lunatic.
\ve ....ve Known various lunatics named John....
Alpha M.: As you anticipated, we knew what to do
with your three poems. For further information
inquire of the lady who clears out the w.p.b....
A.C.: That item about the person who was standing
on th» other person’s feet appeared years ago in a
German paper. Don’t know where it appeared pre-
viously. .. .0.8.P.L. :Your huge letter, which is all
assertion, to hand. Most of your questions were re-
plied to, with figures and references, in Bulletin
of 22/8/’l2. You will find more news there in a few
lines than you put in eight closely-written pages....
Thomas J.: The lady who used to occasionally sign
herself “Sarah Clodd” in these pages is mar-
ried and has retired into private life. The dissi-
pation of presswork knows her no more. . . .Kosci-
usko: We have invented a combined brass bedstead
and gas stove which might possibly suit you. Appar-
ently you are on the lookout for new ideas. ..Thurla:
Dear friend, if dwellers in glass houses didn’t throw
stones: (1) The world would lose a heap of fun;
(2) many honest glaziers would be out of a j0b....
Wanderlust, S.A.: Have searched files till January
last, and can find no trace of pars you mention....
Freak: Please notice that even the baby bonus joke
won’t last for ever. When we have used up all the
baby bonus efforts on hand the subject will be about
dead so far as we are concerned.... Henry G., jun.:
Dear friend, absolute Freetrade and national owner-
ship of land have been tried. Our old friend Binghi
enjoyed both these blessings. Binghi, so far as we
can guess, had millions of years of Freetrade. And
where are his palaces and his history and his litera-
ture and his art, and all the rest of his glories?. .. .
C.C.: They are no use to us. .. . J.A.R.: Cheer not,
for they have been rejected. .. . F.N.L.: Glimpses un-
suitable. Send along the other, if you like. . . .8.8.
(Q.) : “Jim” cast out. . . .W.N. (M.L.) : Not a spark-
ling story.... Bristock : The theme is poor, likewise
the verse. .. .John K.: Hopeless. ...F.J.M,: Cheery
rubbish. .. .Peter P.: It is just about as cheerful as
falling rain... .Clavis: No use. .. .R.H.: One will do:
THE SPY.
A Jap spied out our district when I was a lad.
I didn’t understand then —1 oft wished since I had.
He inquired for a water race, brooklet or creek,
And scann’d out the country from each mountain
peak.
He slept close by in an old empty house;
I crept to the window as quiet as a mouse,
And there on the floor was the business in hand.
He steadfastly gazed at a plan of the land.
A log pressed to the door and a fire burning bright,
Little he dreamed I watched him that night.
He’d conquered our country, no doubt, in his mind,
When the soldiers should follow where he had out-
lined.
I’ve long since grown up, still I’m sorry to say
To know he carried those papers away.
Though now ’tis too late to hold him to scorn,
Still the day of invasion isn’t yet born.
So profit, my friends, while yet you may,
Or the curse of his color may come here to stay.
(Note. —A Jap passed through in 1902.)....
Bushfellow: Sorry can’t admit the crawler.... Longy:
Now sounding the basket with your few lines. ... ,
Jas. W.: Regret unsuitable.... Theg: Small story
very ponderously told. Always attach your name and
address to M.S J.J.0.: Send in a claim for par
to the Accountant, Bulletin Office. .. .M.M.: Maybe
you tell these things so well that the poverty of the
jest is overlooked. It won’t go in cold ink. .. .
F.11.P.: Back to your lessons. .. .C.0.R.: We have
considered your suggestion and are filled with gloom
. ...R.8.W.: “The Beloved” is a fine, well-seasoned
idea wrapped up in lines as commonplace as trousers
and as dull as soap.. . .M.E.G.: Try and write some-
thing cheerful like that yourself. The label on a
jam tin would be better than nothing. .. .Sir Octo-
pus : Glad to know it is Spring. Poems like yours
make us doubt it.... Christine: “In an Orchard” is
no good M.J.M.: “How a German crossed the
Ilawkesbury” is a chill, angular piece of sorrow. Tell
him not to do it again.... Bill: You want to know
whether we think your verses are rhymes or rubbish.
All right. They’re both. ... K. Devon Starr: Your
writing is very sloppy, but you have ideas. Get to
work on a small thing first, and polish it, and boil
it down, and then boil it up again, and condense it,
and then polish it again. After that boil it some
more. (The present writer doesn’t do this sort of
thing, but then he’s too old to reform.) .... G.J.H.:
Mercy is several cows if she must be exercised on
your behalf. You are fined two drinks or the falling
down of the Court. . . .A.C.8.: “A Hidden Indiscre-
tion” might make a readable yarn if you could tell
it with some skill and humor. “The Pool” is just
mud. . . .Manin: You have some poetry in you. Try
and make your verses rhyme and scan.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
M.M.: There is a chestnutty flavor about your pic-
tured joke... . A.E.8.W.: Picture unsuitable, and no
stamps’ enclosed for return....J. Dunn: A very poor
collection. They have no beer on them, and don’t go
more than ldwt. to the ton, and they can’t pay
their debts Henry C.: The man who to his horror
got a job has appeared in so many shapes that he
has become a weariness. And you don’t give a reason-
able interpretation of him. The man you depict
would never get a job unless the Inquisition hired
him to be a loathsome cell-companion to tidy here-
tics...L.W.: That petticoated and deranged reformer
has already become a back number. And he was
never much of a front number.
Kipling, in his new short story of “2150
a.d.,” gets in a neat one sideways at the land
of roasted Ham. Chicago, being casually
mentioned, is remembered only as ‘ the little
place where there’s Salati’s statue of the
Nigger in Flames. A fine piece of old work;
they only unveil it once a year.”
“Chasuble” : The new volume of National
Biography includes Bishop Barry, of Syd-
ney. He had the ill-luck to send before him,
in another vessel, all his library, sermons,
lectures, literary stock, and preaching tools
and utensils. The ship was lost, with the
whole whack. Another eminent cleric had
his house burnt out and exclaimed: Im
ruined! All my sermons gone.” However he
found he could preach better without them.
Barry was not built that wav. The poor
fellow’s loss was irreparable. He had been
disappointed in missing the succession to
Dean Stanley, at Westminster Abbex The
Bishop might have got on in Sydney but tor
his eyes being in the back of Ins head, to-
wards the Cold Land. Common complaint.
Let’s breed our own Bishops and Arens.
Give the sin-shifting private the marshals
baton in his knapsack. He won t mind star-
vation screw if the gaiters, shovel hat and
prospective bingy are at the top ot tne
greasy pole.


WHY DO I SMILE SO ?
Oo
m
v £.
m
v
Because I have here the “ Semelle ” —the
tyre with the S —that turns miles into smiles.
THE
“Semelle” Non-Skid
spells safety and pleasure to the motorist.
MICHEUN TYRES
Can be obtained from all the leading: Garages.
ħ
WHEN ORDERING
(Mum
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
‘Bugle
Brand’
THE REASON IS
SIMPLE.
THERE’S NO OTHER
JUST AS GOOD.
CobberMouth Organs
wr~
No. 1. The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case 3/”
No. 2. The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 2/ _
No. 3. The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
No. 4. The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/-
Sold by all Stores.
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A. E. Beal, East St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, Eaunceston;
G. W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne;
Optical & Photo Supplies Co..
Hay St., Perth.
h
ĥ
BEWARE
OF
DROPPERS
weakened by holes or cut-out slots ;
THEY SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
ħ
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
wedge-clips and loops may be used on the same dropper.
CHEAPEST DROPPER ON THE MARKET.
If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to —
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Leicester & Queensberry Streets, CARLTON, >rELBOURNE.
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
P»"'*e Medals^
Works s Birmingham, England.
hh
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
GOLCRYST
IS
USEFUL
By purifying the blood, GOLCRYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GOECRYST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Eiquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Free sample
sent by proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,;—' W, A., Neale, Con r
stable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,’.’
Adelaide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney. [2
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We SurPLY—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant**
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Brunches in all parts of the world.


YOU GET BEAUTY, VARIETY, AND QUALITY
A. SAUNDERS
£B/10/.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and Tour-
malines.
ed Curb BRA-
' —XET, Safety
chain attached.
20/.
20/.
\ M /
%
£=s
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless Lever
TIMEKEEPER, full-jewelled, with patent
adjusted Balance, Non-magnetic Time
Spring, Dust and Water proof Cases, accu-
rate, reliable, 20/; guaranteed one year’s
free repairs.
Never before were our Jewellery Designs quite so lovely, so rare and exclusive
as NOW. We ask YOU to send for our free Catolog. It contains over Two
Thousand illustrations of Delightful Ideas. THE BOOK IS FREE.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS set
Pearls and Aqua-
marines.
£4/10/.
9ct Gold, Heavy “Trace” MUFF-
CHAIN, £4/10/, £5/10/.
12S/6-
9ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Pearls
and Red or Blue Stones or Tur-
quoise.
12/6
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
£2.
Ladies’ Gold Open Face
Keyless WATCH, Fancy
Dial, perfectly timed anil
adjusted; guaranteed 2
years’ free repairs.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sap-
phires.
17/e-
luct Gold,
set pure
white
Pearls.
Oct Gold
CHARM, set
Pearls ar*d Red
or Blue Stones.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamond.
12/6
9ct Gold SEAL PEN
DANT, Amethyst or
Topaz.
18ct Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
£5/10/.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Rubio"
37/6
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
21/.
loct Gold BROOCH, set Green
Tourmalines or Rubies.
£7/15/-.
£7/15/.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and
Tourmalines or Rubies.
15ct Gold WED-
DING R I N G,
15/; 18ct Gold,
20/.
9et Gold
CHARM, richly
embossed.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamonds.
20/-
9et Gold LINKS; 15ct
Gold LINKS, 40/.
£22/10/
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and
Tourmalines.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
18ct Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
18ct Gold,
Diamonds
Ruby.
27/6-
15ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Dia-
mond and 2 rubies or Sapphires.
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, Safety Chain
attached.
1
Ladies’ Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet WATCH,
Full-jewelled, 3-plate, Compensation Balance, strong,
Keyless Works.
Oct Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Turquoise.
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 10/6, 12/6, 16/, 17/6; 14et.
Gold Filled, 15/, 20/, 25/; 9ct. Gold, 55/, 60/, 70/.
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/;
9ct. Gold, 60/, 65/, 70/, 80/, 90/, £5.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-
out Diamonds.
2*5/6-
15ct Gold,
set pure
Pifirrv" '•
£ 5.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds, Pink Tourma-
lines, and Peridot.
Oct Gold CROSS,
nicely chased.
Oct Gold Bird and Spray BROOCH,
Pearl set Bird.
£5/10/-
15ct Gold, set 11 Diamonds, 1 Pinlc,
and 1 Green Tourmaline.
20/-
9ct Gold BROOCH,
Pearls and Amethysts.
set
'A
&
10/
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, hand chased, 10/;
Gold Filled, 22/G
£3-
9ct Gold Fancy
Basket Pattern
BRACELET,
strong Safety
chain attached.
50/.
50/.
iiiili
itil
V.v.v.v.v.'
ms®
W
If
Gent.’s Patent 10 years’ guaranteed gold-
cased Hunting Keyless Waltham WAIGH,
full-jewelled Compensation Balance, ac-
curate. reliable,
50/-
Guaranteed 3 years’ free repairs.
SYDNEY’S
LEADING
a
n
a
807. 809. 811. 813, 615. 817, GEORGE. ST. (opposite Railway Station) SVDNEY N.S.W.
SiLVE
MITn
TJ
O
a
rs
ER
M
Will
CLO


Legal Notices.
CHARLES FRANCIS BROWNE,
DECEASED.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of
1 Justice, Chancery Division, made in thei Matter
of the Trusts of the Will of ( late JOShU
ROGERS BROWNE deceased, MILNER v WAi
con nQ 12 B No. 1650), and dated the 17th July,
1912 NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be children or remoter issue °f Charles
Francis Browne, who died at St. Kilda, in the State
of Victoria, in the Commonwealth of Australia, on
the sth day of June, 1911, are personally or by
their Solicitors, on or before the 6th day of Decem-
ber, 1912, to come in and prove their cla ms at the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Warrington and Mr. Justice
Parker, Room 252, Royal Courts of Justice, Strand,
London, England, or in default thereof they will be
peremptory excluded from the benefits of the saia
the 13th day of December, 1912, at 12
o’clock, at noon, at the said Chambers, is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 24th day of July, 1912.
R. T. WATKIN-WILLIAMS,
Master of the Supreme Court.
BRIDGES, SAWTELL & CO.,
23 Red Lion Square,
London, W.C., England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Note.—The said Charles Francis Browne left Eng-
land for Australia about 44 years ago, and is stated
to have resided for 39 years in Queensland and New
South Wales.
ROBERT WING AD, DECEASED.
D URSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
J of the High Court of Justice made m the Matter
of the Estate of ROBERT WINGAD, deceased. And
in an action lIOPKINSON and another against
WINGAD and others (1912, W. N °' Vl’r q
the 15th day of July, 1912. WHEREBY IT IS
ORDERED that the following inquiries be made:—
1. Whether David Wingad, one of the sons of the
above-named Robert Wingad, deceased, is living or
dead, and if dead when he died.
2. What children the said David Wingad has had
and when they respectively were born, and whether
any and which of them have died, and, if so, when
and who are the legal personal representatives of such
of them (if any) as died after attaining the age ot
3 Whether any and which of the children of the
said David Wingad have in any and what way
assigned, mortgaged or otherwise dealt with their
respective shares in the sum of £l4OO by the Will
of the said Robert Wingad, deceased, bequeathed unto
and equally between all the children of the said
David Wingad who had attained or should attain the
age of 21 years. ~ ,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled to the said legacy of £l4OO
as children of the said David Wingad or otherwise
under the said inquiries, are personally or by their
Solicitors on or before the 30th day of November,
1912, to come in and enter their names and addresses
in the book kept for that purpose, and prove their
claims at the Chambers of Mr., Justice Swinfen Lady
and Mr. Justice Neville, Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand, London, England, or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order.
Thursday, the 12th day of December, 1912, at
11 30 of the clock in the forenoon, at the said
Chambers (Room No. 704), is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 26th day of July, 1912.
J. C. FOX, Master.
Note.—lf David Wingad, the son of the above-
named Robert Wingad, be still living, he is requested
to communicate with Mr. R. J. Gribble, Solicitor,
Fumival’s Chambers, Lvdiard Street, Ballarat, Vic-
toria, Australia ; and if the said David Wingad be
dead, anyone giving to the said R. J. Gribble, at the
above address, such information as will enable him to
obtain a certificate of the death of the said David
Wingad will receive One pound (£1) reward.
It is alleged that the said David Wingad was a
carpenter, and resided at Ballarat, Victoria, Aus-
tralia, and that he disappeared from his home in or
about the year 1898, and has not since been heard of.
STEVENS, SON & PARKES,
22 Bedford Row, London, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
HAINES —SPLAIN —ROBERTS —
GUEST.
DURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of
1 Justice, Chancery Division, made in the matter
of Re ANN HAINES, Deceased, PEACE i v.
ROBERTS (1910, 11. 2483), whereby the following
inquiry was directed, namely: —
Who are the persons entitled by virtue of or ac-
cording to the Statutes of Distribution to the estate
of the intestate Ann Haines, Deceased, living at the
time of her death, and whether any of them are
since dead, and, if so, who are their respective legal
personal representatives?
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that William
Haines and William Roberts, the Younger, and all
persons claiming under the intestacy of the said Ann
Haines, and the children (if any) of Jane Splain
(nCe Haines), if she died before the 22nd March,
1909, or the issue or legal personal representatives
of the said William Haines and AVilliam Roberts, if
they or either of them died after the 22nd March,
1909, and the brothers or sisters of Ann Haines
(formerly Guest), or their children, if living on the
22nd of March, 1909, or their legal personal repre-
sentatives, if anv died after that date, are per-
sonally or by their solicitors, on or before the 2nd
dav of December, 1912, to come in and prove their
claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Joyce and Mr.
Justice Eve, Room 696, at the Royal Courts of
Justice, Strand, London, England, or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said order. _
Monday, the 16th day of December, 1912, at 2.15
of the clock in the afternoon at the said Chambers
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
Dated the 26th day of July, 1912.
A. KEEN, Master.
PEACOCK and GODDARD, 3 South Square,
Gray’s Inn, London, W.C., for Rickerby and
Son, Cheltenham.
NOTE. —The above-named intestate, Ann Haines,
died a spinster on the 22nd March, 1909.
The said Jane Splain was the daughter of James
Haines and Mary (Cove), his wife, of Cirencester,
Gloucester, and is believed to have married - ■
Splain, a schoolmaster, of. Minety, Wilts, and to
have gone to Ireland, and is believed to be dead.
The said William Haines was the son of James
Haines and Ann (Guest), his wife, of Cirencester,
Gloucester, and went to the United States of America
in 1851, and was in Ohio in the years 1861 or 1862,
since when he has not been heard of.
The said Ann Haines (formerly Guest) was mar-
ried to James Haines at Circencester, Gloucester, in
the vear 1825.
The said William Roberts was a son of William
Roberts and Ann (Haines), his wife, and was born
at Charlton Kings, Cheltenham, in the county of
Gloucester. He went to New South Wales about 40
years ago, since when he has not been heard of.
Business Notices.
LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
h
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and givingToneand
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale:
DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY. Melbourne.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, sth August, 1912.
Royal Military College of Australia.
AN EXAMINATION for entrance to the
Royal Military College of Australia
will 'be held commencing on the 25th
November, 1912, in each State capital.
Forms of application, and full particulars,
may be had on application to the Command-
ant, Royal Military College, Duntroon, or
the Military Commandant in each State.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary,
Department of Defence.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 22nd August, 1912.
Erection of Postmaster’s Residence at
Wahroonga.
TENDERS will. be received until noon
on MONDAY, the 9th SEPTEMBER,
1912, for the erection of Postmaster’s Resi-
dence at WAHROONGA.
Specification and plan may be seen at the
Office of the Works Director for New South
Wales, Customs House (4th Floor), Syd-
ney, to whom tenders endorsed as above
should be addressed.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 22nd August, 1912.
Repairs, etc., to Post and Telegraph
Office at Woollahra.
TENDERS will be received until NOON
on MONDAY, the 9th SEPTEMBER,
1912, for effecting repairs, etc., at the Post
and Telegraph Office, Woollahra.
Specification may be seen at the Office
of the Works Director for New South Wales,
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney, to
whom tenders endorsed as above should be
B,ddrGSS(id.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 28th August, 1912.
Tenders for Electric Lighting of Parade
Ground, Victoria Barracks, Sydney.
TENDERS will be received until Noon
on MONDAY, the 16tli SEPTEM-
BER, 1912, for the Electric Lighting of
Parade Ground at Victoria Barracks, Syd-
Specification may be seen at the Office of
the Works Director for New South Wales,
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney, to
whom tenders endorsed as above should be
addrGSsod.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 28th August, 1912.
Tenders for General Repairs to Forts
and Quarters in Middle Head District.
TENDERS will be received until Noon
on MONDAY, the 16th SEPTEM-
BER, 1912, for general repairs to Forts and
Quarters in Middle Head District.
Specification may be seen at the Office ot
the Works Director for New South Wales,
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney, to
whom tenders endorsed as above should be
addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 29th August, 1912.
Tenders for Construction of Joinery, for
Officers’ Quarters, Royal Military
College, Duntroon.
TENDERS will be received until Noon
on MONDAY, the 16th SEPTEM-
BER, 19j_2, for the construction and de-
livery of Joinery for Officers’ Quarters at
Royal Military College, Duntroon, via
Queanbeyan.
Specification and plan may be seen at the
Office of the Works Director for New South
Wales, Customs House (4th Floor), Syd-
ney, to whom tenders endorsed as above
should be addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Resident Engineer’s Office,
Naval College, Jervis Bay,
New South Wales,
2Sth August, 1912.
TENDERS will be received up till 3 p.m.
on MONDAY, the 30th day of SEP-
TEMBER, for the Supply and Delivery of
Flooring Boards to Captain’s Point, for the
Naval College, Jervis Bay, New South
Wales. . .
Specification and Conditions of Contract
may be seen on application to the Director-
General of Works Office, Russell Street, Mel-
bourne ; the Works Director, N.S.W.
Customs House (4th floor 1, Sydney; Post-
master, Nowra ; and the Resident Engineer s
Office, Naval College, Jervis Bay, N.S.W.
Tenders to be endorsed as above, and to be
addressed (if by post prepaid) to the Super-
vising Engineer, Naval College, Post Office,
Nowra, N.S.W.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted. Tenders are to be in all
cases on the printed forms, which can be
obtained at the above-mentioned offices.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
ideal Motoring
Can only be obtained Through a
m
%
Ht r :
■ ■ - LJJAJJJSBSgg
Barnet Glass Rubber (st?
Founders of the-Rulilier Industry- in Australia
23t. Clarence St. Sydney. Tel.mCily
i AND ALL STATES
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Resident Engineer’s Office,
Naval College, Jervis Bay,
New South Wales,
August 29, 1912.
TENDERS will be received up till 3 p.m.
on MONDAY the 30th day of SEP-
TEMBER for the Supply and Delivery of
Tasmanian Hardwood Lining Boarding to
Captain’s Point, for the Naval College,
Jervis Bay, New South Wales.
Specification and Conditions of Contract
may be seen on application to the Director-
General of Works Office, _ Russell Street,
Melbourne; the Works Director, N.S.W.;
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney; Post
Master, Nowra; the Resident Engineer’s
Office, Naval College, Jervis Bay, N.S.W.;
G.P.0., Hobart; and G.P.0., Launceston,
Tasmania.
Tenders to be endorsed as above, and to be
addressed (if by post pre-paid) to the Sup-
ervising Engineer, Naval College, Post
Office, Nowra, N.S.W.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted. Tenders are to be in all
cases on the printed forms, which can be
obtained at the above-mentioned offices. •
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Resident Engineer’s Office,
Naval College, Jervis Bay,
New South Wales.
TENDERS will be received up till 3 p.m.
on MONDAY the 30th day of SEP-
TEMBER for the Supply and Delivery of
Weather Boarding to Captain’s Point, for
the Naval College, Jervis Bay, New South
Wales.
Specification and Conditions of Contract
may be seen on application to the Director-
General of Works Office, Russell Street,
Melbourne; the Works Director, N.S.W.;
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney; Post
Master, Nowra; and the Resident Engineer’s
Office, Naval College, Jervis Bay, N.S.W.
Tenders to be endorsed as above, and to
be addressed (if by post pre-paid) to the
Supervising Engineer, Naval College, Post
Office, Nowra, N.S.W.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted. Tenders are to be in all
cases on the printed forms, which can be
obtained at the above-mentioned offices.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 22nd August, 1912.
TENDERS will be received until NOON
on TUESDAY, the 17th SEPTEM-
BER, 1912, for the erection of
(a) Ten Cottages for Workmen,
(6) Six Cottages for Officers,
at DARWIN, Northern Territory.
Plans and Specifications may be seen at
the Office of the Works Director for New
South Wales, Customs House (4th Floor),
Sydney; the Works Director, Victoria, 151
Collins Street, Melbourne; and the Works
Registrar, Queensland; Customs House,
Brisbane.
Tenders must be submitted on the pre-
scribed Forms, and should be addressed to
the “Secretary, Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne.”
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Missing Friends.
BROWN. —Information is required as co
George Kenny Brown, who formerly
lived at the Crescent, Clontarf, Dublin, Ire-
land ; was afterwards in the Cape Mounted
Police, and later in Australia. Reply to
ARTHUR GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor, 121
Stephens Green, W. Dublin, Ireland.
WOULD Miss McDOUGAL and Miss
WEBSTER, who were at Dinish
Island with Captain D. and Aileen. in 1905,
kindly commiinicate with CAPTAIN D., c/o
The Bulletin, 214 George Street, Sydney.
"TIMOTHY O’DRISCOLL. Last addresses: 50
* Howard Street, North Melbourne; and Olympic
Hotel, Bendigo. Present address or proof of death
important.
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., LTD.,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
I AMES SWANTON WAUGH INGLIS, Railway
Porter, May, 1890, at Balaclava. Present address
or proof of death important.
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., LTD.,
85 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Public Notice.
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
MR. BRISBANE JAMES McDOUGALL
is no longer in the service ,of MESSRS.
J. EARLE HERMANN LIMITED, nor is
he in any way connected with any of the
Companies associated with the Firm of J.
EARLE HERMANN LIMITED.
WANTED KNOWN.
FREE
Clairvoyance s Psychometry
If worried, troubled or in doubt, write to me at
once. Rub ink on thumbs and press on paper; give
year and date of birth; send specimen of hand-
writing; remit Postal Note 2/8, to cover cost of
treatise, postage, etc., as it will be a bulky package.
I will give you a reading of your life free, to adver-
tise my success.
Address— PAUL PERRIERS,
Custom House Chambers, 440 Flinders St., Melbourne.
WRITE TO-DAY.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
carbide.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag. nts for Australia.


; ‘ . ■ : : • . ' ■
Vv
■• *
wm
3P ■ . •
' ■' ' ■■■■
Sh
tv
" : - ' * ■ :•
?; ;
■.. . -
.
tv
IS
ĥh
e
a
§
1111
n
KS
•!
* ■ 1v
If VT
■' j .1 , •
rd that requires
knows that
■ i
i
yams
S AFETT
ĥ
To clean , jusT
bold under Tap
>e.rfect shave every day. The,
is the only Safety Razor that
'•*- It is, therefore, the only one
velvety shave every day of the
takes 12 sec oncts to strop and
V to clean— nothing to?adjust or
One blade lasts for months.
Auto Strop Safety Razor, with rustproof
blades and horsehide strop in case,
Price in Australia . . . 22/6.
Price in New Zealand . 25/=
Sole Depot for Australasia:
PARTRIDGE-ABERCROMBY, LTD.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.
■ M
mm
SmmmSm
agrafe:
i£i£r
rflHßfc " ' • '^i-!f&ari’£S&&,<*M
'
:t.--'J r v-i^^
p#«
IS®
MWI
**;V§s
w
■
■s&
m:
ws.
rtSs* **&*&’ •
m
-
“
sitisii
Vis*
H
PP
&SSS
5^5?"
:V#%<g
si
M : ~ ~'-MMI I
liM
.
MWi
§&£
b
ligMl
MsssE*vSSi
SMllgSi
m Zmi
Sapj*
Mm
SSE®BSS
mimmM
mm
E?sS
mm
w§, s»
fM
-■
I
I
&
Du
<v- vP
KJ t .
LVs
ni
i/j
Dtxc
v
<s-r;
m
/g
r>
°9o
=Q®u°-
2S£HBr
wp»ll
Original and Exclusive Designs, Combined with
the Highest Standard of Workmanship.
No. 0285—Extra Heavy Solid Silver Full Size Tea
Set, 3 pieces, £lB/1.0/-
0362—Silver-plated and Cut Glass
Jam Dish, with Spoon, 14/6.
Js727 —Silver-plated Entrge Dish, 35/-
0380—-Extra Heavy Solid Silver Ser-
viette Ring, ljin. wide, 18/6.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON
ALL GOODS.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
POSTED FREE.
Wk
msm
Mi pi
'{^it'iSisaS
.m a&sss
HM
Jggggf
mmm
H
m
.
n
n
- i •
ffi&
7
.
iHl&l
SfcS»
«S. }
\&J
\ ;,-■ :
5 v 5
s&iwKfe
ssss
&is|
iti
m
m
mm
mm
/■
m
W&
m
m
m
S':’’,
mm
Ml
m
m
m
fsKim,
m
m
I
WgM
m
<y,
mi
m
■m
fm
skssxf
Business, Robbery, etc.
That the Victorian Wages Board, which has just
fixed the minimum wage for commercial clerks, didn’t
err on the side of mad extravagance, and the lavish-
ness of Heliogabalus, is shown by the fact that, while
the Clerks’ Union disapproves of the general deter-
mination—4Bs. per week —the Vic. Employers’ Fed-
eration cordially approves of it. The varying hours
constituting a week’s work will also create dissatis-
faction —clerks in retail shops, factories, mills, etc.,
48 per week; wool clerks, 37 hours from March to
September, 40 from September to March ; all others,
per week. The aggregate employers’ appreciation
of this determination is understandable, but they will
probably realise presently that the general offer of a
shilling" an hour will bring them few employees other
than the wasters and derelicts of the community,
especially when it is recollected that the wages for
juniors—practically apprentices—start at 10s. per
week at 15 years of age, and rise gradu-
ally to 40s. at 20. The Board affirmed
the principle of equal pay for the sexes —•
though typists and stenographers are not yet dealt
with- —anil how that will work out remains to be seen.
Anyhow, £2 Bs., though a fair present-day living
wage for a single woman, is an impossible sum for a
married man.
* * * *
A recent London bankrupt—one Arthur Ortesby—-
has included among his assets his prospective share
of £11,000,000, which certain Jesuits are alleged to
have buried at or near Sacanbaya (Bolivia), in 1767
and absent-mindedly left in the ground. The bank'
rupt, it seems, is a shareholder in a syndicate which
is looking for the treasure, and hopes,'should it find
the goods, to get out of Bolivia alive and solvent.
It looks like the poorest spec, on record. If the
Jesuits were the sort of folk who were in the habit
of losing the run of £11,000,000, or even 11 bob
through sheer mental oblivion, the Order would never
have put up the history it has done. And if Bolivia
could afford to let any syndicate get away with
£11,000,000 it wouldn’t be the penniless place it
is.
“Nauticus”: The Merchant Shipping Advisory
Committee to the British Board of Trade, reporting
on the Titanic disaster, made some important re-
commendations, one of which was :
“Two efficient hands to be allowed for every boat
that puts off from a vessel.”
When the above is made a statutory obligation—as
it, of course, will be —a tremendous ' dust-up will
occur in the British mercantile marine. The British
seaman of to-day is not the article,..he was 20 years
ago. The growing infrequency of the windjammer
has evolved a new and inferior type of white sailor.
And if the efficient British “seaman” is rare, the
efficient colored, one is rarer still. It is quite pos-
sible that public opinion will insist on the regula-
tions providing for efficient white crews for every
boat. Public opinion will never accept a colored
boat’s crew as efficient, even if it is declared to be
so by Act of Parliament. This will hit the P. and
O. hard. Nor wall that affluent co. suffer alone. All
the steamers trading between Adelaide and Asia—
the Currie line, the 8.1., the E. and A. and others—
don’t carry a handful of white seamen amongst
them.
* * * *
“N. or M.”: Tasmania’s old pet incubus, the
V.D.L. Co., seems to have collided with the public
interest even in its callow youth. Witness a reprint
from tne Colonial Advocate of 1828, at which time
the co. had been in existence a couple of years. The
Government of the day allowed the affair 'exemption
from quit rent when its expenditure in assigned labor
reacned a certain sum —£2000, i believe; each
man being reckoned at £l6 annually. The area of
selection was vaguely limited to land on the N.W.
of Tasmania, “several days’ journey from the out-
most settlement,” and the co. gathered up a nice
little lot of 250,000 acres, including some of the
finest agricultural land in the' country. The “sev-
eral days” naturally caused trouble. There b(ing
no roads to speak of, a day’s journey depended
greatly on the character of the country'. Governor
Arthur gave his decision that it should be considered
the distance reasonably covered if a road were built,
and even that left the clause as full of loopholes as
a length of wire-netting. The Government’s undue
generosity in the matter of foreshores also proved
a boon to the legal profession some ■ years ago.
Jorgen Jorgensen, the adventurous gambler who
staked money, life and reputation indiscriminately,
and rang the changes between the job of President
of Iceland and a convict’s cell, was at one time a
servant of the co., and did good work in exploring
the country. _ Headquarters were at Stanley, then
known as Circular Head. It is approached by a
long, low-lying neck of land edged by a curve of
white beach, at the end of which rises the solid bulk
of the “Nut,” looking, as Captain Cook prosaically
described it. like a plum cake standing in the sea.
The winds blow there continually, the trees lie at
right angles, and the little white town has crept
un under the lee of the “Nut.” to avoid being swept
off the landscape. Nelson’s flag-lifeutenant, who sig-
nalled the fleet that “England expects ev.erv man to
do his dutv” ("having, by the way, to spell the last
word flag by flag, as there was no special flag for
“dutv”) found a wife there. Her home was still
pointed out (unless the wind has blown it away
since last year)—an eccentrically-built dwelling,
"•ith the rooms radiating from a central chimnev.
The town runs a weekly news sheet, though “runs” is
rather an energetic word to employ in the connec-
tion. Communication with the outside world is
supolied bv the Burnie and Stanlev coach and the
little steamers that run to and from Melbourne.
Altogether an interesting little place, and pictorial,
but bloodless —strangled bv land monopoly.
THE PUBLIC DEBT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Memo, for the benefit of whom it may concern:
The N.S.W. bill for interest on the public debt is
now just £406,821 per annum more than it was
two years ago.' —B. 15/8/’l2.
The glad years come, the sad years go—
And round, and round, and round go we !
But whether Time flies swift or slow,
He bears with him our £ s. d. —
And one thing we may not forget,
The Public Debt —the Public Debt!
We pray for rain, we pray for health,
For luck, for virtue, and for bread;
AVe pray perpetually for wealth —
AVhich is quite useless when we’re dead !
The one enduring thing we get
Is Public Debt—the Public Debt!
A hundred years are but a span—
They pass like some uneasy dream.
A tiny chip indeed is man
On History’s tremendous stream!
But in that stream one rock we set —
The Public Debt —the Public Debt!
Administrations rise and fall,
Like Tweedledum and Tweedledee,
But from their graves the old loans call,
Right jovially to You and Me:
“We are alive and growing yet,
The Public Debt —the Public Debt!”
Cold rage possesses us at times,
When we reflect that these Old Loans
(Out great-grandfathers’ shameless crimes!)
Will grin and mumble o’er our bones —-
We fade before the years’ slow fret,
But not the Debt —the Public Debt!
Thrones, dominations, kingdoms, powers,
Festivals, fights—all pass and flee!
But this Eternal Debt of ours,
Faints not, nor fails —alas! that we
Should feed, and nurse, and guard, and pet
The All-Devouring Public Debt!
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


The Smallest
KODAK
Camera Made !
Actual size of Vest Pocket Kodak closed.
Always with you ; never in the way.
The Vest
P o c Ret
KODAK
is a Wonderful
Example of what
can be done in the
saving of bulk and
weight.
The Vest Pocket Kodak Camera is tlie very latest Kodak production—
a Camera so small, so flat and so smooth that it fits a man’s waistcoat
pocket ; dainty enough for a lady’s handbag. And notwithstanding its
lack of bulk the V.P.K. is a perfectly efficient little instrument—capable
of producing good pictures in the hands of the novice ; accurate enough
for the experienced cameraist.
You ought to see this marvel of compactness. It measures only lin.
x 2fin. x 4fin. and takes pictures lfin. x 2\ in., which can be enlarged
up to postcard size without any noticeable loss of definition or pictorial
value. No darkness is necessary with the V.P.K., and yon can be
successful in its use from the very start, without having had any
previous experience.
The Vest Pocket Kodak Camera is fitted with a carefully selected Lens,
Kodak Ball Bearing Shutter, Brilliant Reversible Finder, and Auto-time
Scale. Loads in daylight with Kodak Film for eight exposures. Price,
35 -, of all Kodak dealers. Postage, 6d. extra. Spools, 1/3.
Descriptive Booklet free —write for one.
Smaller than your
notebook —tells the story
better.
KODAK (Australasia) L^TTID*
Incorporating Baker 0. Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 6 Mercer Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Consider the “London”
Guarantee . . . It is the
strongest possible proof of
the London’s Confidence in
London - Tailored Clothes.
■TK for a moment of all that it means
to you. It eliminates all possibility
of disappointment; it warrants
Quality of Fabric; it ensures Perfect
Workmanship; it makes certain Accurate Fit.
T
It definitely contracts that you get all these things in a Tailored-
to-Your-Order Suit. . . . MUST get them or we alone are the losers.
h
tHe Suit.
Perfectly Tailored to Measure.
Let us send you patterns of our exceptionally fine range of New
Season's Fabrics. Included are Pure Wool Indigo-dyed Twills
(guaranteed fadeless) , Fancy Worsteds, Heather Mixtures,
English, Scotch and Blarney Tweeds, all of finest quality and
of newest pattern and shade.
Opposite the G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
•fi
MR
gygNy
z<>
Jt-
svcc-
Zo
Ks/
NX
!»
!»■*?
«^SS
%$<
*»e?
2&Z
'mmz-
NVVX\>
5#
5*2
ml
55^
X
PS4BS
zsrfs*
gS3?
SZSS
s«!S
sKsg
gggg
ss^Sg
Wg
«§
»
mm
mm
mmmmw
mm*
««
S*£
pgsgsg^ps^
XX;:V<'XX<xX'
g-s
>s^
3
Our Illustration shows three London-dressed Australians in London.
GUARANTEE.
We guarantee every
Garment we tailor to fit
and please the wearer in
all respects, or refund money in full.
Our Blues and Blacks in Twills, Coatings and
Serges we guarantee FOR TWELVE MONTHS against
fading, or money refunded.
In wear we Insure the Suit in that we undertake
to repair and re-press it at any time Free of Charge.
London Stores Ltd. 1


Beauty Specialist’s Secret.
HOW TO ELECTROLYSE SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
WITHOUT GOING TO AN EXPERT.
Some ladies in this country have lately heard
from Mme.- Tensfeldt of 120 a Princes Street, Ed : n-
burgh, Scotland, the well-known expert, that she has
perfected a s'df-acting apparatus which any lady cun
use for herself, in her own room. It will destroy
the roots of every hair. There is not the slightest
possibility of the hair growing anew, and the thing is
quite easily done. It causes no pain and needs no
skill. A lady has only to sit before a mirror in a
good light and select the first hair which she proposes
to eradicate. In about five seconds the hair either
drops out, or can be brushed off by a touch ; and it
can never grow again. So with every hair on the
face or arm. Mme. Tensfeldt guarantees satisfaction.
The apparatus costs £6 55., carriage paid, and can be
easily sold second-hand when done with. Mme. Tens-
feldt will take it back within six months and re-
turn £1 ss. for it if desired.*
Children thrive
and grow Strong
ON
awi:
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
There is nothing better for a delicate child than a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. It makes the little ones eat better,
digest better, sleep better and rapidly gain in weight, strength
and colour. Doctors prescribe it for coughs, bronchitis,
whooping cough and all lung affections; also for scrofula,
rickets, malnutrition and for wasting diseases generally.
Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and children all like it.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
4
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. ' Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
m
56
Qvmltx
HERE IT IS—
It is a recognised • fact that Drapery
needs are cheaper in Queensland than
in any other State in the Common-
wealth. Therefore, you can’t afford to
be without
F / N N E Y’S
Big Summer
CATALOGUE.
It’s simply, full of Big Values for Men
and Women. There’s a copy for you.
Fill in this coupon:—
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED,
Brisbane.
Send me, free of charge, your Sum-
mer Catalogue.
Name
Address
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
FINNEY’S,
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
LAC
se
Qvailtx
IN
BANANA LAND
One after-result of the late General Strike
in Brisbane is that, out of 2000 shop assist-
ants employed in the city, only about 800 are
now enrolled in the unions. Previously, the
big majority of them were qualified union-
ists. And the railway employees are at
present dead against any movement fpr the
affiliation of their various organisations with
■ any outside body.
Announced recently that the Common-
wealth Government contemplates establish-
ing a horse-breeding station in the Northern
Territory, for the purpose of raising army
remounts'. The institution in such a remote
region (with no present prospect of railway
communication with the South) will be ex-
ceedingly useful, to any foreigner, Jap or
otherwise, who may occupy the northern
shores of Australia.
: “Kobbi”: W. M, Thompson, one-time
Mayor of Brisbane, was one of the band of
gold-seekers that rushed Australia in the
50’s and 60’s. He did no good as a miner,
and started as a bridge and railway con-
tractor. Various short branches, also sec-
tions of Bananaland’s old North Coast rail-
way, were built by him, and when the t>3
flood-torrent carried away everything it
struck and fled seaward with bridges in its
hair, Thompson got the job of replacing
what there was left of the old wooden
straddle across the Mary River. Later,
growing affluent, he became a Mayor, and
ultimately developed into W. Murray Thomp-
son. Now he’s dead.
As recently as 18 months ago the Queens-
land Government was full of enthusiasm
about the projected western line —a huge
work which was to extend in a north-west-
erly direction, joining the ends of the rail-
ways that spread towards the sunset from
Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville re-
spectively. It was to be joined on to the
Sydney-Bourke track on the south. On the
north it was to touch the N. Territory bor-
der, and then the Australian Government
was to extend the line from Port Darwin
to join it. Thus there was to be a great
road from Port Darwin to Sydney, and all
the principal Queensland ports were to tap
the traffic en route, and they were to annex
the business of the Territory, and Adelaide
was to be left out, and the Federal line from
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta was to be a
bad debt, and everything in the garden was
to be lovely. Eighteen dray-loads of money
were to be borrowed for the undertaking, and
the consequent applause was to tear the
skies asunder. Now, alas ! all this glory is
indefinitely postponed. The spirit—which is
Digby Denham—is willing, but the flesh—
which is Bull, who was to lend the cash —
is weak.
The luckiest politician in Queensland is
Jimmy Blair, who now succeeds Ken Grant
in the Digby Denham Ministry His ability
is nothing paralysing, and he has the tired
feeling in a chronic form. His best assets
are a big voice and an impressive way of
delivering platitudes. At the last elections
he overtopped Ryott Maughan for the
double-barrelled Ipswich constituency, though
Maughan worked as strenuously as James
loafed. As an instance of Blair’s languor,
according to a return recently tabled, he,
though in excellent health, and all the time
resident in Queensland, had only made 14
appearances in the Assembly during the pre-
vious session.
“Boswell”: The Denham Government
showed the yellow streak in its nature by
sooling its police upon W. N. Gillies, re-
cently elected in the Labor interest. While
qualifying for his 12 months’ citizenship,
Gillies had crossed the border into N.S.W.
to dispose of some property,, and when apply-
ing to be placed on the electoral roll, didn’t
deduct the month or so ./of his absence. It
was no case for a criminal court, anyhow,
and a jury at Ilerberton promptly acquitted
the member for the district. Gillies was
formerly a cane grower at Tintenbar, on the
Lower Richmond (N.S.W.), and ran against
W. M. Green —since blossomed forth, or
blown, or swelled, or something into Massey-
Green —for the Richmond Federal seat. He
put up a plucky fight against Perry, of the
water-bottle, for the Richmond State seat,
and now a political door has opened for him
in the North, which Denham’s officials
haven’t succeeded in closing.
IN THE STEAMER SMOKING ROOM.
BRIDGE FIEND (looking for a fourth):
“Do you play Bridge?”
CAUTIOUS PASSENGER: “ Well, I
do , but a lot of people say
I don't.”
Prison Comptroller Pennefather protests
strongly against the ridiculous system of
sending a hopeless inebriate to prison for
two or three months, and then letting him
loose again to go back to his old public-house.
Pennefather argues, quite logically, that the
indeterminate sentence system is peculiarly
suited for the hopeless beer class, which
should be segregated until expert testimony
shows that the patients have been cured of
the desire to lead a tight life. There is
sense in this. Inebriety is clearly a disease,
that calls for lengthy treatment, not for
brief leg-irons and sudden oakum.
Federal legislation so maddened one “Tu-
wong” that he broke out in Brisbane
Courier with a poem or ode or epic of about
120 lines headed “Australia’s King, Empire
and Flag.” Some fragments
The laws which we endure cause world-wide mirth;
Instance, prospective bonus for each birth.
And, though Australia brought him o’er the seas,
Once here, the legislator thinks his ease
Imperilled if he lets outsiders in,
Considers immigration mortal sin;
Sends French-cum-English British Belcourt out
Because he cannot Spanish, German, spout;
Sends Mrs. Gooey back to far Cathay
By laws permitting her good man to stay.
Avoid the Caucus as you would small-pox ;
Mind what elected you—the ballot-box.
It is curious how loyalty and doggerel go
together—especially doggerel.
The Usurper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A white god sliding on a star
Went down the purple weather,
lie saw the world beneath him far,
Curled like a misty feather;
And near and nearer did he draw,
His blue robe trailing after,
Till, for the merry thing he saw,
He filled the skies with laughter.
Tlie little people went and came
Amid their swift wheels humming,
And toyed with gold, and played with flame,
Or sets their armies drumming;
And up and down, from sea to sea,
Their splendid deeds they boasted,
Or in their solemn flagons free
Their might and honor toasted.
He saw their little altars stand,
Their priests around them caper,
With offerings borne in every hand
Of cash or blotted paper ;
And sacrifice and sacrament
With curious eyes he noted,
As ever o’er his rate per cent.
Some dull, fat idol gloated.
He saw how each man went austere,
Untrusted of his neighbor,
For that fierce god had made it clear
He owned his life and labor ;
By such strict cords Fat held him bound
That if he did not pay him
The cash that made his godhead round,
One blot of ink would slay him.
Yet here and there, about the world,
Thin outcasts went blaspheming,
The holy incense softly curled
Above bright shekels gleaming;
But Fat, amid his altars proud,
In heavy scorn sat winking—
For who could make his voice so loud
To set the people thinking?
The white god sitting on his star
Filled all the skies with laughter.
To watch that dull, round thing afar
That drew the whole world after;
His mirth was such, a comet fell,
And two young suns were shaken.
To think old Cohen Israel
The throne of Jove had token.
QUEENSLAND.
THARGOMINDAll.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 31, 1912.
My Dear Thargomindah, —
We have partially recovered, and a!re
beginning to get glad. Wee Macgregor and
his spouse have come back to us out of the
sad, lone habitations of cow, and the effect
on our spirits has been much like that of a
cheerful moon rising over a sombre paddock
containing several sick sheep. Not that our
vice-regalities have gone anywhere or done
anything during the week, but the mere fact
that they are again in our midst has lifted
us from our gloom and sent a pleasant thrill
through every weary bosom.
We know that, before long, things will get
whirling again, for the G.-G. and his pic-
turesque retainers are to return, and lend a
brief, if passing, glory to our drab exist-
ence.
The National Council of Women held its
annual assemblage here during the week.
Mrs. Kingsbury, who bosses the circum-
stance, is a lady who combines in her kindly
soul an abiding charity with a sense of rol-
licking humor, and as the latter rollicks all
the way through her charitable endeavors,
the N.C.W. is as flourishing as a banana
bush in a shower which contains a rainbow.
Various persons, whose hearts swell in devi-
ous altruistic directions, read reports from
their special departments of activity on the
work of the year. It was wild work, some
of it, including all sorts of things, from
sending colored stockings to the benighted
heatheness to supplying homes for indigent
cats, but good intention was written all
over it.
One well-known lady created a feeling of
mild surprise, mingled with a huge compul-
sion to thoughtfulness, by her statement that
she hired a caretaker, when giving functions
for the young, to hunt, harry or chase the
youth of the country put of the neighbor-
ing bush-covered allottnents where it was
wont to take refuge and group itself in pic-
turesque and promiscuous hiding.
At Bishopsbourne* this afternoon, numer-
ous charitable females disposed of tea, home-
made sweets, and other dyspeptic allure-
ments to other females whose hearts burned
with kindly desire towards Foreign Mis-
sions. Our bachelor Archbishop remarked
genially that some people apparently pre-
ferred their refreshments to his speech, but
this was unkind of him, because quite a
number of good and hungry Christians had
heroically discarded their buns and other
edibles in order to hang upon his words.
The bunny-hugs and grizzly-bears this
week were the “Kismet” assembly on Tues-
. day, the “Orchid” assembly on Wednesday,
and the “Quaker Girl” last night. The
craze for the theatrical variety of hop, skid
and whirl is becoming fierce and devouring,
and the pleasant insanity grows by what it
feeds on.
The University feasted its tennis team
on Thursday evening, and to-night the Arts
students, who are entertaining their fellow-
criminals of the Science and Physics sec-
tions, will allow their visitors to dance in
their hall and eat their supper.
Our University is a glad, gay place, but
it is very, very young. Some day it may
grow up and come to years of humor, but
at present its idea of fun is simply a loud
noise, a.nd its idea of great fun is several
loud noises. The admired sounds are usually
derived from kerosene-tins, squeakers and
toOters; and the police, who are wholly un-
accustomed to this species of comedy, have
been casting an intolerant eye in the direc-
tion of our seat of learning. Still, youth
must have its way; but I confess that the
way of the horse, cow or cauliblossom seems
more cheerful and humorous than the road
it takes at present.
Madam Pfund and Mrs. Willett, two dear
little Melbourne ladies who have wintered
here, gave a farewell tea on Tuesday at
Eschenhagen’s, before leaving for the South.
On Thursday, Mrs. Stodart hostessed a
party in their honor at her home in
Cooparoo.
Mrs. Cowley was another of the week’s
hostesses. On Friday afternoon she gave
a big At Home in honor of her daughter,
Mrs. Gall, and her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Eric Cowley. One of the chief purposes of
the function was the inspection of the
Cowley grandchildren. Quite a collection
of pasteboard was made, and everybody who
handled the kids or examined their points
from a distance seemed quite satisfied about
them.
Edith Anderson, the pretty daughter of
the late Under-Secretary for Education, who
is an artist of merit, and as nice a girl as
you could meet on a spring afternoon, is
engaged to Penleigh Boyd, an Australian
artist who hails from the South. The male
person who has made the excellent choice
has a lot of a’Beckett and Chomley cousins
in Melbourne. Both parties to the new
agreement are at present in England, but
it was in gladsome Paris that they originally
discovered, their joy. There, Miss Anderson
was studying under Phillips Fox, whose wife
was chaperoning the young Queenslander.
Another engagement which has blasted
the hopes of many a spinster was announced
this week, the man in the case being a well-
known and much pursued preacher of the
Word. If I can remember. I’ll tell you his
name and that of the maiden of his choice,
next week.
Yours breathlessly,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Dalrymple, who died in Queensland this
week, was the phrase-maker of the Kanaka
party. He it was who saddled Ernie Stevens,
the Courier’s managing director, with the
injurious style of “a withered Adonis.” It
has stuck to the unhappy Ern ever since.
“Briny” holds forth :
Lord Charles Beresford’s protests against the
weakening of Britain’s Mediterranean Squadron should
find warm sympathisers in Australia—so long, that
is, as the Commonwealth has to depend for its
national and commercial safety on the Cold Land.
If Britain is superseded in this quarter, Australia is
in a most parlous plight. And it looks as though
the tragedy was imminent. Eight years ago
Britain had in the Mediterranean 12 of its largest
battleships, four new armored cruisers, and 20
destroyers. The fresh arrangement leaves Malta with
four small cruisers, three of them old, and Gibraltar
with four second-class battleships. It is on the cards
that these may be sent to the Atlantic or the North
Sea. The Malta ships could be sunk by one Austrian
Dreadnought. Australian and British commerce could
then be held up or destroyed, the Suez Canal seized,
and Gibraltar threatened, both by sea and land. The
eastern Mediterranean could not be defended by ships
at Gibraltar. It is 980 miles from Malta, and nearly
1800 from Alexandria. Ireland might as well be
defended by ships at Newfoundland.


Incomparable
THORNE’S o.hjvv WHISKY
THORNE’S OLD HIGHLAND MALT WHISKY won rapidly
a handsome reputation when it began its career 80 years ago.
Each decade has seen this fine old Glenlivet spirit more firmly
established in the public favor—enjoying the unswerving adherence
of men of taste.
Purity, Quality, Smoothness, and Matured Mellowness combine to
produce the inimitable “ Thorne Flavor ” —the flavor which ’has won
for this incomparable spirit its splendid place.
At the King’s Garden Party, during that noble
pageant of modern times—the Delhi Durbar —
Thorne’s was chosen, from among its many
competitors, for the regalement of the King’s
Guests.
«
>5
msm
X. \
a.. \j
A Tj
**»
r\
yrty
#rii
lX'Nsnw
House of Commons
R Thorne g sons. Limited
Greehock Distillery
OLE r £ro^ ,
Lion House .TfaroffiLL. LON DON. I C
Trade Jf Bjk C«a»u6Hta
Hark MSftMfi&Bk 1831.
imimi
%
*A
r«A?
9 > 1 ft*
P
SB
rW«, vsVc* $&£*«!(*&&
if #4
arcs
fi ; k if n- ;• . If h
t \f ff d■ >J
*r r r


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN ana LONDON.
a S.S. WAKOOL, via SUEZ CANAL.
Wireless installed. Twin Screw.
f SALOON 1 ACCOMMODATION.
CONVERTED INTO VERY
ONE CLASS.
AMIDSHIPS,
SUPERIOR
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON k CO.,
HI William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, HtC.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges..
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Qank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock . . . . . . £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, ,1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yakwood, Esq.
Brandies throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of .the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. . . .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1S!)S specially protected.
Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. AY. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. S'. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years ar.d over, at the rate of 4$ per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland,
Agents throughout Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, Soutn Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and l ull Particulars apply to —
LOMMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTKRMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. ML'ECKE & CO., Adelaide:
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd.. Brisbane & Townsville.
New Zealand Insurance
‘o.,
'Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STHEET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, J inn Managers.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
All Steamer:
i FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
, Loudon . . From £45. AIG Os. to r2O
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
! Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Fine —£110 (First-class each way) ;
£B2 - (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable with Holt’s
Blue Funnel Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and 0. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY. LTD., Agents in Australia
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
' SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous ILichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pine, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
iWinter Tours to
the Pacific Isles.
ĥ
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in one of the
Burns, tPhilp Line, of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our.illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from:2i to 52 days at a cost of from ,£5
to £25.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ħ
h
. £3,000,000
£2,085,000
. £3,000,000
£8,085,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Ivt.,
DIRECTORS:
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, SI.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua ('New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania .3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular-Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Bankincr Co.
o
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11.. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager : Dims.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie,
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutau.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant : J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Piniiey.
Loudon Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).- 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man. :E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
•21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial fljutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability.; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS
To CAIRNS (Queensland) and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
Special attention is drawn to the opportunity of
enjoying a Holiday during the Winter Season at
places where the climate is mild and the scenery
beautiful. '.Che services are performed by the follow-
ing steamships, fitted with all facilities for the com-
fort of Tourists.
TO CAIRNS EVERY TUESDAY—
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA,” 6500 Tons
T.S.S. “ WYANDRA,” 4500 Tons
and other well-known steamers, the round trip from
Sydney occupying 20 days.
TO LAUTOKA, SUVA AND LEVUIIA EVERY
FOUR WEEKS—
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA,” 6500 Tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
The round trip occupying three weeks.
For sailing dates, etc., see Daily Papers.
Further particulars on application to—
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR: MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PI IDE
Ami GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Traim'nippinor at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
B.S. Warilda (8000 tons),
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, September
28. carrying Ist, 2nd
and 3rd Class Passen-
gers.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo. Sept. 7.
S.S. Wollowra, Sept, 14.
S.S. Grautala, Sept. 21.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained oh application at the Company’s Office.
Q. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
AROUND THE PACIFIC TOURS,
returning from San Francisco via
Rarotonga, Papeete and Wellington.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific ifailway Co.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.S. F.S.
Federal and Shire Lines-
STEAM TO LONDON.
•T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,300 Tons. W. CHICKEN, Commander.
Will be despatched from: —-
BRISBANE about Sept. 18
SYDNEY „ Sept. 24
MELBOURNE about Sept. 28
ADELAIDE „ Oct. i
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class pasengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
2-Berth. 4-Berth.
Fares .. .. £4O. £l6 to £lB.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. DORSET, leaving Sydney about October 15.
*Fitted with Wireless.
For further information apply to: —-
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Svdney.
McILWRAITII, McEACHATtN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
ĥ
South Sea
... and ...
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
•T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, SEPT. 10.
*T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, OCTOBER 8.
* Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. 1 ef-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 23
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), *R.M.S. MOANA,'September 7. Passengers
can spend 10 davs in Tahiti and return by R.M.
t.s.s. TAHITI, arriving Sydney, October 1.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC-GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. *Talune, September 24
(Maheno, from Sydney, September 18, connects.)
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. The National Monthly.
EO>'E
Erice, Gil.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Pearl of the Pacific."
THROUGH BOOKINGS to ALL UNITED STATES
POINTS, also to EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-
WORLD TOURS in conjunction with all lines.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GR AND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
AROUND THE PACIFIC TOURS, returning front
VANCOUVER, via Honolulu, Suva and Auckland.
S.S. MOANA, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, October 5.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, November 2.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
MEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINI.KV. Manasrer.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
QZ
CD
I—
CO
CD
CO
oc
CD
HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
I ARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences.
Oral Billiard Table.
Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
.CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
4-8 hours.
MDY
Each Capsule bears the name i*’
THE
PROOF of my CIGARS
IS IN THE SMOKING
MW-
aa*\,
BUYERS all over Australia and New Zealand, by their
repeat orders, testify to the good smoking qualities,
flavor, and aroma of jny Cigars.
To convince yourself, send me an order for 100 of any
of the following:—
IMPERIALS 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 „
DIADEMAS 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6 „
INFANTAS 17/6 „
LEVUCAS 15/6 „
Smoke 5 or 6 of them, and, if you are not satisfied,
return the remainder to me, and
I WILL REFUND IN FULL THE AMOUNT PAID.
Rpmit amount with order, and X will deliver Cigars,
all charges paid, to any part of Australia. When order-
ing, state whether you like a mild, medium, or full
flavor. Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
****«>,
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three Per Cent, per annum allowed on all Deposits up to £3OO.
Agencies now open at local Post Offices
throughout practically the whole of Victoria.
Melbourne, 15th July, 1912.
MELBOURNE AGENCY : 317 COLLINS STREET.
DENISON MILLER , Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
,The “ PLUM ” RAZOR Won’t Cause Soreness!
?5r
If you knew how directly responsible a bad razor
is for irritation and soreness, you would discard that
rough-edged blade and invest in a PLUM right away.
A Plum Razor carries the finest and keenest cut-
»ting edge imaginable, and carries it for a very long
period. Its exquisitely tempered Silver-steel blade
can cope with the most vigorous growth, and leaves
that velvety smoothness which is so desirable. We
guarantee to keep every PLUM IN PERFECT ORDER
FOR TWO YEARS. PRICE 10/6, Post Free.
TheC.& A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
nio-ht; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
WE GUARANTEE EVERY “PLUM”
WE SELL FOR TWO YEARS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG (SL AITREN,
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/G.
654 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
f ■■Jm
m*
w
Have you investigated
the Merits of . .
‘The Sileat Empire’?
This machine is the result of many years’
practical experience, gathered from the
working of every other type of projector, and
from the most exhaustive study of the best
materials.
The lenses are of the highest quality—
clear and accurately ground and properly
adjusted.
It is fitted with the MALTESE CROSS,
which renders the pictures absolutely flicker-
less.
It is perfectly silent in operation—Handy
—Fireproof—Durable—Cheap.
J e r d a n*s
Sole Agents for Australia,
“ Leading Cinematograph Specialists,”
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
VICTORIAN AGENCY—
ALEXANDER GUNN & SONS,
236 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
J
E.A.W.
E for Empire, the car for great fun,
M for Machine, it’s an excellent one,
P for Popular, the reason we will explain.
I for If you write us to ascertain.
R for Regular equipment we supply,
E for Empire, so why not buy ?
RQYW. SANDFORD, Ltd.
181 ESizabeth Street, Sydney.
105 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Chalmers and Empire Cars.
A FASCINATING AUTHOR
The Complete
Works of Guy
De Maupassant
Issued to Subscribers only
... by ...
The Standard Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Publishers of the Complete Works of
Shakespeare, Balzac, Dickens, Scott,
Thackeray, etc.
IT is a literary event of more than ordinary im-
portance that The Standard Publishing Co. are
able to announce the issue to subscribers ot a
complete and admirable translation of the entile
Works of Guy De Maupassant. .
Henri Hene Guy De Maupassant is by wGll-nigii
universal consent the greatest short story writer in
all literature. It was when Baudelaire translated
the short stories of Edgar Allan Poe that the French
attempted to achieve mastery in one of the most
difficult forms of art.
Maupassant and Gautier alone improved upon their
teacher. But Gautier’s chief faipe rests upon his
poems and his romances. Maupassant produced a
series of little masterpieces, which are unsurpassed
for ingenuity of conception, for perfection of detail,
and for an almost miraculous adroitness in the pre-
sentation of character and incident within the tiniest
limits. The unwinding of one of his stories is one
of the fascinations of literature.
His stories deal with innumerable details ot the
human comedy as it presented itself to Maupassant s
ever-observant eye. He has given us strange tales of
travel and adventure of weird mystery and awesome
dread, and of the pure comedy that is never far
absent from human circles.
Only a few of these masterpieces have found their
way into English print. Strangely enough, this is
the first, collected edition which has ever appeared in
England. It has also been left for the Publishers to
make this edition more complete than the authorised
French edition.
This Standard Edition, in fact, contains many
stories and sketches which have actually never been
republished in France, and are now for the first tune
rescued from the oblivion of the. magazines in which
they originally appeared.
THE GENERAL FORMAT. —The Standard Edition
is an endeavor to produce a set of the Complete
Works of De Maupassant, which will conform to the
best dictates of style and art.
THE ILLUSTRATIONS. —There are thirty through-
out the set, from original drawings by noted French
and American artists. A number were executed by
De Maupassant’s friends —who declined compensation
—contending that it was an honor for them to show
their admiration in this way for his works. _
THE PAPER. —The paper used in this edition was
specially made, and is, therefore, of one color and
quality throughout. It is a pure antique, with
deckled edges.
THE PRINTING. —The printing was done from
original type and not from plates. This ensures a
special clearness. A new font of French Elzevir
type, bold and elegant in design and easy to read,
was specially cast for and used in this edition.
There are good margins to every page.
THE BINDING. —It has been our aim to secure
simplicity and quiet elegance in the bindings. The
books are handsomely bound in Blue Vellum Cloth,
with distinctive brown and gold title labels.
ANALYSIS OF THE SEVENTEEN
VOLUMES.
IN THE FIRST FIVE VOLUMES the author pic-
ires, with marvellous skill, the virile novelty of
luntry scenes, and the comedy and tragedy under-
ing the whirl of Parisian life in fashionable draw-
g-rooms, in studios of art, in greenrooms of opera
id theatre, and in the Quartier Latin of students
id grisettes.
THE SECOND SECTION OF FIVE VOLUMES
mtains the Romances which caused Tolstoi to hail
e Maupassant as the supreme realist and romance
riter of his century. Here are fotind the daring
splorations of his subtly intelligent mind into the
notions of the heart of womankind.
THE THIRD SECTION OF FIVE VOLUMES em-
races the Dramas, Poems and Travels, the last-
amed sparkling with gems of description—Meisson-
ier-like pictures in words —of Spanish, Italian, Cor-
can and Oriental life. The shorter Romances are
Iso included.
THE FOURTH SECTION contains stories belong-
lg to no one particular phase of life, unless it may
e human passion. Love and laughter, tragedy and
lars run side by side in these two volumes, the last
E the series.
AN APPRECIATION.
Elbert Hubbard writes: —
“This man never wrote to please the rabble. He
wrote because he had a message for the world, and
because Divine Energy forced it through his pen.
De Maupassant wrote with the conviction that in
life there could be no phase so noble or so mean, so
honorable or so. contemptible, so lofty, or so low, as
to be unworthy of chronicling ; no groove of human
virtue or fault, success or failure, wisdom or folly,
that did not possess its own peculiar psychological
aspect, and, therefore, demanded analysis. If occas-
ionally some intellectual pigmy, after reading,
screams in falsetto, please remember, snontaneity
and mediocrity are never kin. ' A WARNING: Those
of you who find enjoyment in blue-milk brain-wander-
ings should never seek De Maupassant. You will
be disappointed. You will not be able to digest nor
assimilate the strong elixir of his mind, so it will
curdle in your gullet-—then it’s you for mental con-
stipation.”
A FREE BOOKLET.
We have prepared an illustrated prospectus of our
Standard Edition of De Maupassant. This will be
sent Post Free to all responsible inquirers. The
booklet describes the edition in full detail, and shows
how the matter is arranged in the Seventeen Volumes.
This booklet will be sent to all book-lovers and liter-
ary students who use the form underneath.
To The Standard Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne; or
■ 228 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me free of charge, and without any
obligation on my part, your illustrated booklet of
The Standard Edition of Ouy De Maupassant's Works
in Seventeen Volumes, together with your plan of
easy instalments.
NAME
(Please use this form or a postcard, mentioning
The Bulletin.)
ADDRESS


Amusements.
HEB MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
A THEATRE FULL OF FUN, MELODY AND
ANIMATION.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Resumption of Run of
NIGHTBIKDS.
A Sumptuous Production, Overflowing with Gaiety.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
H E A T K E R O Y A L, SYDNEY.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
Last Two Nights of THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT
PASSERS-BY
will be staged, for the first time in Sydney, by
J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S COMPANY OF DRAMATIC
ARTISTS, headed by
HILDA SPONG, and including HARCOURT BEATTY.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-Lessees : PHILIP LYTTON LTD.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY NIGHT.
PHILIP LYTTON presents the Great Australian Drama,
THE GIRL FROM WAYBACK.
Interpreted by a Specially Selected Cast, headed by
MISS MADGE HOPE.
PRICES AS USUAL. PLAN AT PALING’S.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER VAUDEVILLE.
THE MARVELLOUS OLRAO COMPANY,
The Limit in Acrobatic Comedy.
THE WYNFORDS. GRACE COMPTON. ' MABEL and
MALFE. GEORGE COLLINS. VICTORIA CROSS.
LALIE BROOKE, and DOUBLE COMPANY.
ROY REDGRAVE & MAB PAUL; THE NINE
SERENADERS; and LAUSANNE SISTERS OPEN
NEXT SATURDAY.
ADELI’HI thE a t re, sydn e y.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
Last Two Nights of THE GIRL WITHOUT A HOME.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 7,
GEORGE MARLOW, LIMITED, will present, for the first
time in Australasia, the Whirlwind Drama of Surprises,
entitled:
HER FORBIDDEN MARRIAGE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. RESERVED SEATS, 4/-
Business Announcements,
I,J
Irw
•■ j 1 vfW'-T
1. M :
T" . ■:
■ / \
I. '
V;
' It
:•
m *s
l
/ ■
IUISE
ii-i
iii
as
an
fife;
V-:: ;
>: i ~ ■ ■
mssss&
wmtsm
WmM
u
m
m
MMI
MAGIC LANTERN SLIDES
MAKE
YOUR
OWN
h
A New Art for Clever Boys.
All the materials, transfers,
glass, filming and binding
to make 15 Pictures,
a couple of complete
slides and a Magic
TjH.nt.ern for only
|2/9 the lot, we pay
carriage. The direc-
tions are simple.
The Union Co.
299 Elizabeth St., Melb
£7
Home Printing Outfit
The Cheapest Set of Rubber Type Ever Sold
Complete with over 150 Letters,Figures, Stops,
3-line Type-Holder, Tweezers and Self-Ink-
ing Tad. Will save its cost the first
time you use it. Mark linen, books,
papers, envelopes, cards, &c. Only
Is. 6d., we pay postage anywhere
The Union IWfg. Co.
299 Elizabeth St., Melb
ĥ
ħ
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYROID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney.
Amusements.
LYCEUM,
J HE
S Y D N E If.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: 0. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
H IS A I. H A M 15 It A T H E A T K E,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d., 6d., Is.
THE IMPERIAL RO LEER RINK,
Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
in
ROLLER S KATIN G.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
DYSIPIA ANI) PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTT ELS, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
G
rand tug of war carnival.
SEPTEMBER 28 to OCTOBER 12.
SEPTEMBER 28 to OCTOBER 12.
£lOOO. THE STADIUM. £lOOO..
Evening and Matinee Sessions.
FIFTY ENTRIES. FIFTY ENTRIES.
International Contest. All-comers’ Championship.
Special Service Competition. Challenge Shield for
Amateurs. Scratch Pull Championship of Australasia.
Promoters
/HUGH D. MCINTOSH, The Stadium.
(FRANK MUSGROVE, 289 Pitt Street.
Rickards* tivoli theatre.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE SCHENOK BROTHERS, Sensational Equilibrists.
MISS MINNIE KAUFMANN, Lady Trick Cyclist.
CHINKO, the Wonderful Juggler.
RICH & RICH, Real Racy Comedians.
THREE SISTERS SPRIGHTLY, Burlesque Artistes.
MISS JESSIE STUART, Vocal Comedienne.
STAVORDALE QUINTETTE, Banjo & Harp Specialists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA lIOUS E, 51 E LBOC RX E.
General Manager: AIR. JOHN C. LEETE.
THE RALLIS & WILSON TRIO, Comedy Acrobats.
TOM DAWSON, the Favorite Comedian.
MOZZETTO, the Great Juggler.
ALEC HURLEY, Coster Impersonator.
LA FREYA, in a Series of Beautiful and Artistic Visions.
ARDO, the Human Frog.
Plan at Allan’s. Si)# - PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
|£ IRK B V LUNN CONCERTS.
J. & N. TAIT
announce with pleasure the Australian and New Zealand
Tour of
THE WORLD-FAMOUS SINGER,
MADAME KID KEY LUNN,
GREATEST DRAMATIC CONTRALTO OF OUR TIME.
“ A voice of Purple Velvet shot with Gold.”
—Birmingham Post.
Supported by a
Brilliant Combination of Distinguished Artists.
ANDREW SHANKS, Baritone.
ANDRE DE RIBAUPIERRE, Violinist.
WILLIAM MURDOCH, Pianist.
FINAL MELBOURNE CONCERT:
TOWN HALL, SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 7.
SYDNEY CONCERTS :
SEPTEMBER 12, 14, 17, 19 (Matinee) and 21.
Box Plans : Melbourne at Allan’s ; Sydney at Nicholson’s-
|CEGl ■ D » “ C
Melbourne GLACIAEIUM.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
SEASON POSITIVELY CLOSES SEPTEMBER 7.
Amusements.
► Sole Lessee & Manager : WILLIA.M COSGROVE.
SUCCESS ! ASSURED SUCCESS ! TO-NIGHT.
The Vast Multitude which greeted the Initial Per-
formance of the Great Sensational Drama,
THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL
rose in a body and acclaimed, by callsi and
each Act. that the production was GREAT—IMMENSE
—SUPERB.” A play rarely witnessed in a theatre
nowadays. The Artists were cheered for their prodigious
interpretations. PRICES : 3/-, 2/- 1/6 and 1/-
Box Plan at Allan’s. No Early Door Charges.
He KING’S THEATRE, MELISOU KNK
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
LAST NIGHTS OF
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in Frank Sendamore’s Enthralling Drama,
DANGEROUS WOMEN.
Overflowing Audiences nightly testify to its
Wonderful P' pularity.
Popular Prices : 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plans at Allan’s & The Grand.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S COMPANY
in
BROUGHT TO RUIN.
The Story of a Girl’s Betrayal.
Prices 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vie.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack" Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read's and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
i;i; MA.IF.STY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE RETURN OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
A STRONG OAST OF FAVORITES.
Reappearance of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE QUAKER GTR L.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
■J* lIEATKE KOVAL,, MELUOIIKNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
STUPENDOUS PRODUCTION
of the POWERFUL AND IMPRESSIVE DRAMA,
BE N HU 11.
Dramatisation of General Lew Wallace’s Great Romance.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
TIIENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SHOW WEEK ATTRACTION.
HUG A 111),
THE WORLD’S GREATEST MAGICIAN.
THE WIZARD OF MYSTERY.
PRICES : 3/- (reserved), 2/-, 1/- Box Plan at Pianola Co.
Direction: FAULKNER SMITH.
| R E C TION AMALGAMATED
PICTURES LTD.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace,
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Ptinces Bridge Station.
PRICES : 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Plan at Allan’s.
OL V M P I A.
L Y M P I A.
OLIMPIA.
MELBOURNE,
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
»*/1; s T’S PALACE, JI ELT?OC E N E.
the BEST WEST'S PICTURES, THK BKST
OF J ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinfes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the Would.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
PVi rv wept". Prices —Ed. to 2s. Boy Plnn aE Olc-n’s.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have somethin? to say worth hearing- do not
take the slight trouble to learn how to make it properly heard.” —William Ewart Gladstone.
THE DISTINGUISHED ACTOR
WALTER BENTLEY
_____________________________ OF WORLD-WIDE FAME
TEACHES BY POST, or by Pri ate Lessons.
The Stage a Specialty. Many engagements made.
All further information and arrangement of time of Private Tuition and Fee® can be ascertained on
application at ihe College or by letter. 554 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
h
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30 /-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40A
Catalogues Sent -Free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
Great Writers —
Charles Dickens,
Born 1812, died 1870.
m
m
SI&1:
MSS
The Greatest of all Writers is
the pen that fills itself in a flash
and never leaks—
ONOTO
Prices from 12/- each.
The First Successful
SELF-FILLING
FOUNTAIN PEN.
Always the Leader—without a Peer.
ĥ
m
The “A. A.” Self-filling Foun-
tain Pen, for which there is no
substitute.
Its self-filling feature is exclu-
sive. Filled by simply twisting
the button, holding the pen in
the ink, and, by a reverse twist,
the pen is filled.
Every pen guaranteed against
leakage and structurally perfect.
Fitted with 14ct. gold pens, any
style or size, plain black, chased
or mottled holders or mounted in
sterling silver filigree, gold filled
and mother of pearl.
The “A. A.” Clip, our latest
achievement, excels by far any foun-
tain pen clip yet produced. Made
in one piece of German Silver,
Sterling Silver, Gold Filled and
Solid 14ct. Gold. It holds per-
fectly firm and can be attached
almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “The
Modern ” Automatic Self-
Filling: Fountain Pen with
the “A.A.” Clip at your store,
write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS 8 CO.
PTY., LTD.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne,
Sole Aaents and suppliers to the
trade for Australasia and New
Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO.
THE CREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
<sUAl#£
Ca-OtJT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by "aIT Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOVRIL
ħ
For
Health
and
Beauty


K
LI;
«[
•ma»
■*"“***
- «• '
WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
m
LUDBROOK’S STORE
'Vonthaggl,
Victoria.
SIR JOHN MADDEN
“Yamala,”
Frankston, Vic.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
<5O Hunter Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs,— November 28, 1911.
you inStalled'at'^my 0 home° I *‘Clvd V esfln < ir , ” I)^e i aSe< f \i. am the Aerogen Gas Machine which
r s t i satistfctot the h^hin C e Iy ptovLg’ v^rinSlTto wSf- f verything has bee "
The light is excellent, both for' ordinary uYe in the house on,i w fso very economical
will be only too glad to personally recommend it to anyone. d * the bllllard table ' 1
Yours truly, (Egd.) GEORGE G. KISS.
„ _. “Yamala,” Frankston,
Dear Sirs* January 3, 1911.
1 send you herewith my cheque for the Aerogen Machine which you supplied to me. as
per your account enclosed.
perfect, and the installation the simplest possible and most convenient.
We find that anyone can manage it with care and complete safety, and it has brought a very
definite joy to my house here in the complete banishment of the kerosene lamps. Our
servants are content, and the cost seems likely to be much lessened.
With many thanks, Very truly yours, (Sgd.) JOHN MADDEN.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS Can too
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY.
f ° r HEAT * I '*G and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS
COST ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD.,”w““ > '
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH: ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA : A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Phllp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns. Philp & Co. Ltd.
for MoreT^
AfctWH |[ , ~ a i
m
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years * success . A
Valuable alike
for
the
Invalid and Robust
\ A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel etc and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigest'ed it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
tSt 5
DIET
stssgsmm5 tssgsmm
m
THE LONE HANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian
HAES &
LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES FOR
ualnj
m
r%
m
J
V
m
M. B. WILD 8 CO.
(DHBBHraßHttnßHHnßHßannnaHnaHßani
Specialists
in the Manufacture of
Hauling 8 Winding
Machinery
of Every Description.
500 H.P. Main and Tail Hauling Gear with Sliding Drums.
If you are interested in Winding and Hauling Propositions our expert is at your service fret* ™t * .
guarantee he wi.l suggest a scheme that will be entirely satisfactory Tn lZ y w Ty. ™
We can supply either Citroen Machine Cut Double Helical Gears or gears with plain straight-cut teeth.


TOE FESTERED AND
WOULD NOT HEAT
After Three Months It Seemed to Be
Eating into Bone. Used Cuticura
Ointment. Thoroughly Healed.
Had No Further Trouble.
•‘The trouble [with my little girl’s toe]
first began by a knock the toe next the
big toe. It first became festered and in-
flamed. I then began to poultice and use
boracic acid. After I got the wound clean
and inflammation down I tried to heal it up,
but after three months it was still unhealed
and seemed to be eating into the bone. I
then showed it to a local chemist and he
gave me sorrie ointment which I was to use
with boracic acid. After giving it a fair
trial it did not improve. I then wrote for
Cuticura Ointment and after about a month’s
use the toe became thoroughly healed and I
have had no further trouble. It is thoroughly
cured.” (Signed) Mrs. M. Leach, 96 Cobden
St., South Melbourne, Vic., Dec. 13, 1910.
ECZEMA ON HANDS 3 YEARS
‘‘l was troubled a great deal with eczema
on my hands. They would burn and cause
a terrible itching and then they would crack
open and bleed. Every time I would put
my hands in water I thought a knife was
going through them, they were so sore. I
suffered with them for about three years.
I went to several doctors for them, and they
failed to help me. I am very thankful to
say that the Cuticura Soap and Ointment
did cure me. I would not be without Cuti-
cura Soap and Cuticura Ointment in the
house.” (Signed) Mrs. James Sceggel, 221
Ward St., Hartford, Conn., tl. S. A., April
26, 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world, but to those who
have suffered much with torturing, disfigur-
ing skin eruptions, lost hope and are without
faith in any treatment, a liberal sample of
Cuticura Ointment with a 32-p. booklet on
the care and treatment of the skin and scalp
will be mailed free, on application. Address
E. Towns & Co., Dept. 7K, Sydney, N. S. W-
An Interesting:
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of—Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
h
Carters
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Relief -Permanent Cure.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
surely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress —cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
ĥ
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW preparation causes big stir among hair specialists.
The above""clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Qrowlng Compound.
10,000 FREE trial boxes.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
auickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested m every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here, let me
say that not onlv did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly pien-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the haif on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others —but I do asseit
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far'the
cheapest. , .
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigrh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
ħ
F
R
E
E
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our bs„ and we will
send vou for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
iewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Cham.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards ii
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
a Australia, and import our
in your district. Our post
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126 BOND ST., SYDNEY.
Choose a “ Swan.”
h
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Eountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The w.
Swam Safety
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
JVIABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham
Building,
24 Bond St. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/li, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
crtxf^
Checks Fever-
ishness. a n< l
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
rhe cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple
DYSENTERY.
ii
I
! 55
5 58
] ge
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions, j
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does j
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk, j
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a j
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
ItEnra
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
BENGEK’S FOOD Ltd, Otter Works, MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND.
Henzess Food is sold in Tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere.. ,
sod
The Inky Way
Last month’s obituary list includes George Ather-
ton, for long shipping reporter of the Melbourne
HekalD. If someone were to write an exhaustive
treatise on reporting and reporters, the specialist
scribblers would fill a large place. Mining, shipping,
commercial, agricultural and sporting headings
overlook an inky mass of type, which stands
for any amount of skill, resource, experience
and hard work. Shipping reporters have a
special place of their own, and there is a
fine camaraderie among them. Perhaps the best
known in Australia was Jago, of Adelaide. He was
a statesman among the amphibia;, and his arrange-
ments were facilitated by the nature of the port.
At Port Jackson there has been less room for getting
in fine work, but the coastal reporters, in tne old
days of Maoriland, at the Bluff and Hokitika, were
magnificent. In Melbourne, Millar, of the Argus,
and Clark, of the Age, were held in high repute way
back in the time that patriarchs who draw old age
pensions can just remember. Atherton was the
jolliest chap of the lot. He habitually wore a brick-
dust complexion on his full-moon face, but that
didn’t prevent his getting early copy. The ease with
which he seemed to do things blinded many of those
who knew him to the real smartness with which he
extracted cockboat information and dressed it for the
compositors. #
“L.E.”: I disagree heartily with. “Wonga” re
anonymous journalism. His point is that many
writers with democratic sentiments . attached, to
Tory newspapers would be doomed if signed articles
come into vogue. Good enough for them, say I.
“Wonga” says that with signed articles some of our
best men would be driven into the enemy’s camp.
Aren’t they there now for all practical purposes?
The truth is that if articles were signed, the cause
of democracy would be strengthened. The position
of the good writer would be vastly improved, and if
good writers are democratic they would be strong
enough to; compel even the worst Tory paper to
mitigate some of its worst misrepresentations, or
hire inferior writers. The present type of journalist
has for so long tempered his sentiments to the
market that he has lost all sense of proportion, and
I have always found that the writer without con-
victions is a poor writer. At present even the. best
men count for little or nothing, but with signed
articles the good men would gain power and in-
fluence. Besides, there are more things in the Inky
Heaven and Earth than politics. In literary, artis-
tic and dramatic and musical criticism, it is most
essential that articles should be signed, but it would
be a bold man who would dare. to put his name to
the gush that passes for criticism in most of our
dailies. A man writes, let us say, a book of verses,
and some unknown Writer says it is tripe, or one of
the few volumes of perfect poems in the
English language. "Now it all depends who
says it. If the man who has previously
perused only the works of Ella Wheeler Wilcox
or Nat Gouid or Charles Garbage says the poem is
tripe, that would be regarded as rather a compliment
to the writer. And the dramatic critic who had
written a eulogistic account of the “Girl Who Knew
Something”—certain critics have gone even that
length-—would present himself to a wondering public
as an imbecile, a fit subject for an alienist. We
would then know our men, their standards (if they
had any), and their own peculiar brand of brain-
lessness. And the opinion of the sound men would
begin to matter. Tes, if articles were signed, many
a weighty anonym would find his reputation gone.
* •re * *
“Inky Wafer”; Here’s what I know about the
London Times special advertising editions (B.
15/8/’l2) : These special issues are not so . dear as
they look. Murray Alison, the ex-Australian who
controls the advt. depart, for the Times, has a staff
to deal with monthly puffs. Two of his canvassers
are ex-Australians, who earn big money—more than
they could do rabbit-trapping or standing for Parlia-
ment. Last year the Times got out a South Ameri-
can supplement, and another ex-Australian told me
the revenue was £6Boo—from 58 pp. at £lOO,
and £5OO each for the back and front pages. Two
South American embassies liquidated the .cost of this
hooray. And it pays these Dago Republics to spend
muchly on advertising. An ex-Australian who peddles
Thermos flasks, told me his firm had secured the
front page of the Daily Maid for £6OO for one in-
sertion. They were offered £4OO to surrender it by
a maker of bread pills or corsets —no matter which,
as both impede the digestion. There are only three
daily papers which get these fancy prices in London
—the Times, the Daily Telegraph, and the Daily
Mail. Except, perhaps, the Morning Post, most of
the London morning papers do not yield big profits
to the owners. And there are 7,500,000 inhabitants
in Greater London.
* * * *
“Doctor”: Re Holman’s proposal that all news-
paper articles should be signed by the writers
thereof: Macaulay, who didn’t sign his brilliant
essays in the Edinburgh Review, wrote in Knight’s
Quarterly Magazine, in 1823, concerning the edi-
torial “we”: “It has often been fatal to rising
genius, though all the world knows that it is only a
forni of speech very often employed by a single
needy blockhead.” But, of course, the hired
Petriana mythologists and Marriage: Tie Bursters
haven’t anything resembling Macaulay’s stuff to sign
for.
• * * *
A recent issue of Answers, a London weekly, is
rare in one particular. The whole of its advertising
space is taken up at a big figure by a single enter-
prising firm, which is not going to get another big,
but gratuitous, iidvt. by being, mentioned here.
Answers is the foundations on which the fortunes of
the house of Harmsworth have been built. It was
the first venture of Alfred Harmsworth, now Lord
Northcliffe, principal proprietor of the London Daily
Mail, England’s largest circulator. It is the only
one of the numerous rivals of the popular Tit-Bits
that has caught on and secured a permanent foot-
hold. It succeeded, not b,Y virtue of any literary
merit, but by reason of young Alf Harmsworth’s
remarkable ingenuity in inventing puzzles and prize
competitions, thereby arousing the cupidity of the
vast host of people who dearly love a cheap gamble.
“Kito”: In the long, dead days, when I edited a
backbloeks daily, it was my custom to go shooting
from Friday to Monday—and occasionally the jaunt
extended over Tuesday. Yet the subscribers to the
sheet never noticed the absence of the master hand.
I left behind a collection of leaders, mostly on such
safe topics as the need of dealing firmly with, if not
deposing, the Czar of Russia, and the comps., aided
by my solitary reporter, attended to the rest. But
the chess editor of a N.S.AV. weakly of my acquaint-
ance was the world’s winner in this line. It was
his custom to pay visits of three months and. up-
wards to Maoriland. He never allowed a substitute
to interfere in his job. Before leaving, he made up
a bundle containing 13 weeks’ supply of chess items,
each weekly budget being dated and ready for the
printer. A consideration of his methods convinced
me that chess is like death, which takes no count of
time, and claims all seasons for it 3 own.
A CURSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
there's a special nook in the utmost Pit
Where Satan simmers the screaming souls,
With sharpened forks and a patent spit
And first-class devils and first-grade coals —
A cosy corner replete with pomp.
It’s all reserved for that cow, the comp.
I write of . “Envy, morose and dark,”
He makes it “ ’Enry,” my heart to break ;
I pen an “Ode to a Life-grief Stark”—
He types it “Hide of a Live Beef-steak,”
I sing “gay ruin in Circe’s cup”—
“Bay rum” is the way that he sets it up!
Ho, brother-bards, who have writhed and chafed
’Neath the heavy hand of the Beast, mark well,
In beer-glad hours there hath been vouchsafed
To me sweet Vision of seething Hell
With one addition to Dante’s plan:—
A special grid, for the lino, man!
VICTORIA.
MADDE.


Please yourself
by making use of
such a satisfactory
method of cleaning
the teetb as
It is pleasant to know tliat you
have polished so nicely those teeth
that show.
It is satisfactory to feel that
your teeth are all properly cared
for —thoroughly cleansed with
this antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves such a pleasant
feeling of freshness m the mouth.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER FROM
GOUT
or
Rheumatism?
Professor Berscham’s Gout and Rheumatic
Cachets in boxes of 1 doz. 2s. 6d . 2 doz., 4s.
Incomparable, Alleviating; and Harmless.
A trial box will prove efficacy. Posted to any
address in the Commonwealth
| Box No. 931, G.P.O , Melbourne. Vic.
A Guaranteed Remedy for all
descriptions of Piles, whether Blind,
Bleeding, Protruding or Itching—is
PETERS’ a *
PILE CURE
Price 1/3 Q 0 Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity), 5/-
li CONSIDER IT WONDERFUL.
Miss E. A. White, Burwood, writes: —
“Having been a great sufferer from Piles
I decided to try Peters’ Pile Cure
and am pleased to state with great suc-
cess. I consider it wonderful, and
wish I had known of it long before.”
Peters' Pile Cure is Easy to
Apply.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” The “Si
Remedy” for Coughs and Colds. Of 40
proven efficacy.
ockport
years’
h
M
22
mmmg
(repeater
m
We are just as proud of the
REMINGTON .22 Repeaters as
we are of the REMINGTON Big
Game high-power Rifles—for just
as good reasons. There is no
other make of the .22 class built
to as high a standard.
The features that place the
REMINGTON .22 in a class
by itself are the real big
REMINGTON features—
Hammerless and Solid
Breech. You clean the
barrel from the breech.
There is perhaps a greater
difference between the
REMINGTON and other .22
Repeaters than is to be
found between rifles of any
other class.
A real rifle—the REM-
INGTON .22 Repeater
—shoots without ad-
justment. .22 short,
.22 long, or .22 long
Rifle Cartridges.
REMINGTON
ARMS--UNION
METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian
Representative,
P-O. Box 459,
Melbourne:
1349, Sydney.
r 3
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
3 a
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
I of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand D«r- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the Drivilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.O. ; The Hon. R J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. 15. Winchcombe,' M.L.C. ; Adrian
TT _ Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE ; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
m ■
«
i
—— —- -
I
“His Master’s Voice”
GRAMOPHONE
brings into your home, to entertain your family and friends, the
leading stage favorites of yesterday and to-day.
If you want to enjoy a good, hearty laugh, Harry Lauder, Tom
Clare, George Itobey—all comedians of the first rank—are ready
to make your sides shake with merriment !
If in a more serious mood, it will adapt itself to your humor
by singing for you dainty love ballads by such artistes as Edna
Thornton, John Harrison, etc.
You can keep on picking your talent from such “headliners” as
Melba, Caruso, Clara Butt, Kirkby Lunn
and a host of others, and you can change over to the best Band
Music, Grand Opera, etc., for the most famous Singers and
Musicians are at your disposal when you own one of “His
Master’s Voice” Gramophones.
Your nearest accredited Talking Machine Dealer will gladly
play any music you wish to hear.
Catalogues free, from
THE GRAMOPHONE GO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
a»
Sr
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . in the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
l DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglan,
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
‘ Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
■ the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
CASTRATION
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give 'perfect satis-
faction for many years. ijagr- E ASY TO USE.
ĥ
451-
Post Free Anywhere,
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore, your hearing, no matter how old you are.
there is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it rully and explain just how it acts.
\ou use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off
them—the strain of trying .to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain !
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side of
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
ħ
h
ĥ
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest soundSs
right to the
natural e a r-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision t li a t
runs across the
mouth is to, al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
Th e shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
To persons who are' nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It Only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
* (: °i;rse, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were born deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
ot some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night, and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name..?
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mint register it.
HIMPODS
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
Whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold m Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ħ
h
DARK or
LIGHT
CUT or PLUG
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
1"^
m
ZANEXIC CC K G
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy ismade as you write (in ink).
"Letter shows no sign cf C:pying"
The letter is posted and the book
put away. 400 Octavo (Bin. by 5)
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
in N.S.C./-200, .Post Free for 3/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S.C./400, Post Free, tor 5/.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. 3/• Post
Free: or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetic Pens, 3d. doz„ 2/- gross. Zanetic Writing Paper, siza
8x5,1/- pkt., 10 xB, 2/- Sample o£ the Zanetic Ink paper which
produces this result, Free, if stamped envelope sent to :
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road, LEICESTER, England.


Our Special Snaps
B
THE SILENCER ITSELF.
° C JD
Q
THE SILENCER TAKEN APART.
THE B.S.A. RIFLE SILENCER, as above, to •
fit the B.S.A. Miniature Rifles 22 cal., also Win-
chester Rifles, 1902, 1904 and 190 G Models
Price, 32/6 each.
Postage 9d. N.S.W., 1/2 Inter-State.
THE B.S.A.
RIFLE SHOWN OPPOSITE HAS A
SILENCER FITTED.
Send for our
Illustrated
SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO
LISTS, FREE.
DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12-gauge, top lever
o O Yn steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left
choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about^
71V, ’ £l/15/-
as above, but with Greener cross bolt £2/5/-
Same Gun as aoove, Gun> 2/9 n.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State.
tefea-
B.S.A. MINIATURE RIFLE, No. 2 MODEL,
22-calibre, bolt action, self-cocking, 24in.
round steel barrel; length overall 41in.;
weight, about sUb.screw adjusting rear
sight to 200 yards, barleycorn front sight, walnut stock .... 32/6
Postage on one ltifle, 2/3 N.S.W. ; 4/2 Inter-State.
BiS.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE RIFLE. No. 3 MODEL, same
make as No. 2 Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights
Freight paid ........ - 00 -
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE REPEAT NO RIFLE, 22-calibre;
same description as No. 3 Model Freight paid 70/-
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford St.,
Sydney / Church St., Parramatta ; 113 King St., Newtown, [3
A Bonsa Legging.
You want comfort for your legs, something light
and strong, not hard and stiff.
Our “BONSA CONCERTINA” Legging is well
known for giving perfect comfort, and it is well
made, as illustrated, in two colors. Black top and
bottom and saffron color in the middle (or any
color you like).
Please give size of calf and ankle.
satisfadion or Money Returned,
“WELL WORTH 25/= PAIR.”
This offer holds good to all “Bulletin” Readers.
Our New Illustrated Catalogue is post free. Now.
. t
post free.
EDWARD BUTLCR & SONS LIMITED,
The Sydney Saddlers, 257 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, lOd. ;
Brough’s Secret of Stage
Make-Up, 1/4 ; Sixteen
Amusing Farces, 1/1;
Thirteen One-Act Farces,
1/1 ; Twenty Humorous
Dialogues, 1/1; Home
Amusements, 1/1 ; “How
Old Hose Counted the
Eggs” and 116 Other/
Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic
Recitations, 1/1 ; “How
Soclcery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dialect Re-
citations, 1/1 ; 1401 Con-
undrums and Riddles,
1/1 ; Art of Ventrilo-
quism, 1/1; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clairvoy-
ance, 1/1 ; Amateur Con-
juring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
r \* 11>
/•
-JFS)
•r
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
iPlayin?
‘ Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
, Complete,
with full in-
structions;
anyone ca n
work them.
29,
posted 3/»
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Flve, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post, free anywhere, 4/-
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.TWI
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE
9
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, l/l£ and 2/9 per box.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING)
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INViGORATtNG
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravings, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
. including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elooh
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. RiddLe of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted'.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is Cd. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is fd Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
4i
■
i
%
HOME CyCLOPEDIR
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting thei r physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
UrBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into payings more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pF~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦ _
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
IS. OLD BUSH SONGS, lB 3d POSt. I>R MILFORD’S M.D-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Praciical P auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
S E STB^INCU P^RS. L rfd.
exposed, Key to all
P. e2r riJ'“sd p'oS. TokoSt, ”«TSE
Diction art, P gd ._, g _ How T 0 Read Heads
Ingeiisolls posted. Chbvasse’s Advice to a
(Jas. Coates). l ° P wonderful Budget Song
Wife, 3s P? postea. M post free . G. W.
OF London Sbries, 2s each posted.
Reynolds Cour of Blsc(JIT rakers and Sugar-
Sappho, is. Bread an Thb Wifb , s Handbook>
boilers ass » 0F PhiloSo phy, Is post. 100 New
Is 2d posted. Fr Is 3d. Nervousness and
recitations and We]ISTK R .s Large Un .
Its Curb, Is P 1700 pages, ICOOillus., leather
abridged Dici na paid (why p ay 3 an d 4
uound, . my R P", M ; KIN G AND Repairing, Is 2d, Dyna-
guineas). Bootm 1s 2 d. Moore’s Universal
mos and complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
Assistant and Com e S ecrets of Clairvoyance,
bound, 10 * 6 n d f P° x,MK Songs (words and music com-
is post. 200 Old-iime v of RBAg(>N> by painej
plete), 19 6d P OS S BIT e FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
posted, Sa. v


Jeadache-i
“IVIy Head Felt as though
Crushed in a Vice/’
THE following case of Mr. John Bath, of
Queenton, Queensland, affords another
typical instance of the prompt and perfect
curative powers of Bile Beans.
Mr. Bath is postmaster at Queenton, and writes :
“ 1 have been using that grand family medicine, Bile
Beans, for the past four
years or more, and have
derived srreat benefits from
it. At one time I suffered greatly from head-
ache. The terrific throbbing was terrible. My
head felt as if it had been crushed in a vice, and
I could not bear it to touch the pillow.
“ I took a dose or two of Bile Beans—a box
of which I am never without—and was soon
relieved of the agonising pain, and after a few
hours I was quite well again. I was able to
attend to my duties as usual, which 1 feel sure I
would not have been able to do but for Bile
Beans. •
“ Bile Beans are a splendid family medicine,
gentle in action and certain in effect, and I
recommend them to anyone I hear complaining
of feeling unwell.”
Mr. J. Bath—grateful to Bile Beam.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
BLOOD IMPURITIES.
Impure blood poisons the whole system. The complexion and the whites
of the eyes assume a yellowish tinge, and the eyes become dull. The
pores of the skin are obstructed, and (rive rise to pimples, boils, blotches, etc.
Bile Beans act on the sources of the blood supply, the organs of digestion
and assimilation, and so invigorate them as to send a tide of rich red blood
through the veins and arteries, bringing the hue of health to pale checks.
He
eans
r/./. FOR
kliousness
Bile Beans are a
reliable family
medicine and a
proved cure for bili-
ousness, headache,
piles, indigestion,
liver trouble, back
pains, stomach dis-
order, giddiness,
nervous debility,
loss of appetite,
anaemia, bad blood,
and female ail-
ments. 1/li, and 2/9
large box, of all
chemists & stores.
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS' SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion* If, on tHe otHer Hand
tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. THere
can be no question about tHat*
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
An Apology of Pleasant
Worship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE gods of ancient Greece were fair,
White limbed and clear of eye,
They floated down a stronger air,
And sailed a finer sky;
The smoke of woodland altars dim
Was blue about the world,
And at the far sea’s magic rim
Old clouds of wonder curled.
Chaplet and garland, prayer and song,
The oracle that spake—
The dreams men dreamt were wild and long;
They saw Athene shake
Her deep blue robe across the height,
And young Apollo’s lyre,
Trembling with music of delight,
Filled strong men’s hearts with fire.
When Thor and Odin ruled the North,
The swift Valkyries flew
To. bear the soul that fluttered forth
Baptised in battle dew,
The Thunderer’s hammer smote the cloud,
The red-forked lightning sprang,
A song of courage deep and loud
The warrior shipman sang.
Religion clenched the smiting hand
And drove the battle keel,
Red sacrifice in many a land
Made dark the warrior steel;
A moving splendor in their dreams
Mocked at the gaunt death’s call,
And down the night they saw the gleams
Of Odin’s feasting-liall.
But times are changed. The gods are dead ;
In this commercial day
Men haste to take their prayers as read,
While Wowsers cold and grey
Shake through the world their whiskers pale,
Or into business dash
To run a large salvation sale
On terms of strictest cash.
With ribald Bacchanalian songs
To holy language wed
They save, as with angelic tongs,
The brand from burning red.
While pictures wrought in Tophet flame,
And shrill with Sheol’s scent.
The erring sinner’s heart may tame
And win the penitent.
The gods are dead. Thor comes no more;
Athene’s shrine is cold ;
Apollo’s splendid reign is o’er,
And lost his lyre of gold :
But raging up and down the land
Hired zealots madly prate,
And prayerful persons deftly hand
Round the collection-plate.
But we who might have bowed the head
Wi ! hin the Delphic cave,
Or worshipped him whose beard was red
Above the wild North wave,
With old religious mirth must wake
Some gods our souls to cheer,
And sacrificial offerings make
Of brown and blessed beer.
We arc not irreligious men,
As Wowser folk avow,
The gods are dear to us as when
The first men learned to bow
In adoration at the shrine
Of earth, and sky, and air,
When love was love, and wine was wine,
And all the world was fair.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
’Tween Drinks.
A PRACTICAL JOKE AT PIBROCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PIAYE more than once drawn
your respectful attention to Angus
Trevor,” said Patrick Mackaboy, bar-
man. “Angus was the man who made a
great tragedian of me between breakfast and
7 p.m. of February 11. He caught me in a
blue dungaree apron, chasing the dead flies
and odors of nocturnal dissipation out of
Scanlan’s billiard room at 9.30, and had me
juggling with the paternal curse in ‘The
Golden Farmer, or The Last Crime’ at the
Pipeclay Mechanics’ Institute that same
evening.
“This Angus Trevor was proprietor, man-
aging director and star gymnast of the
Orion Dramatic Organisation. He had been
a very promising young actor for 35 years
when we met, and was the nicest man that
ever unwound a struggling publican for
three days’ board and bar expenses. Those
faithful performers who wriggle out of
masses of iron manacles, and worm their
way through old oak chests do nothing at
all to compare with Mr. Trevor’s bewilder-
ing feat of escaping from a closed pub, her-
metically sealed, with a proprietor on the
mat, all doors in possession of the enemy,
and a printer’s summons waiting on the
front step. I am reserving for my old age
the task of writing ‘The Escapes of Angus
Trevor.’ They will rank with those of
Latude and Casanova.
“It was at Pibroch, New South, we struck
the first and worst frost of my brief but
brilliant artistic career. We were playing
‘lngomar the Barbarian,’ and I may say the
performance was not received with general
favor. The native youth, who grow to a
great height and are uncouth and woolly in
the Pibroch hills, finding small excitement
in the show, set about extracting diversion
from Angus Trevor. They met him in Wes-
ton’s bar parlor after hours.
“Angus was a tall, slight man, with
fluent grey hair, kind eyes, a sensitive
mouth, and an expression of great and abid-
ing sweetness. The ringleader of the leg-
pulling bee was a precocious young cocky,
aged 30, with a small head and some smat-
terings of the art of ironical deception.
His name was Henry Jenkins. He professed
to be animated with respect approaching
reverence on being introduced to the justly-
celebrated tragedian. His hat was in his
hand, he bowed low, and discoursed with
whispering humbleness. His retinue of
grass-fed satirists did likewise.
“ ‘Proud and happy to know you, sir,’
said Mr. Jenkins. ‘lt is indeed a privi-
lege.’
“ ‘Not at all, young gentleman,’ Angus re-
plied. ‘Not at all.’ The old actor was mildly
gratified, but sufficiently modest.
“Henry insisted on it. ‘Believe me, it is
no little thing to have shaken the hand of an
artist whose reputation is so high, and whose
name is a household w T ord from Pibroch tc
the Pacific Slope, and from the Pacific
Slope to Old Bailey.’
“ ‘Tush, tush, my dear sir, you are too
generous. It would be discourteous in me
to decline. A little gin, and just a jet of
peppermint, please.’
“ ‘We witnessed your marvellous perform-
ance to-night. The finest Hamlet ever seen
out of Muddy Water Holes,’ Jenkins pro-
tested.
“ ‘lngomar, Mr. Jenkins —Ingomar.’
“ ‘No matter, it was stupendous.’
“ ‘Sublime !’ said McLoughlin.
“ ‘So scholarly, so restrained, yet pro-
foundly emotional,’ said Gotch.
“ ‘lt should be given in London,’ thought
Herring.
“ ‘Or Tiddywaddy,’ said Mosley.
“They kept at it till two in the morning,
by which time Angus Trevor had consumed
two-thirds of a bottle of square-face, and a
judicious supply of the antispasmodic. He
was still the dear, urbane and ingenuous
elderly gentleman, utterly oblivious to the
fact that anywhere in the whole world could
be found five young men who might take
pleasure in baiting a simple soul like him-
self. He had paid for nothing up to now,
but no one seemed to notice it. All hands
were too busy with his elastic left leg, a
limb susceptible to unlimited elongation, it
would seem.
“Here or hereabout Henry Jenkin sprang
his splendid jest. For three long, sodden
hours he had been leading up to it. He
called for silence, and, assuming a marked
gravity, said :
“ ‘Mr. Angus Trevor, sir, we have not
hesitated as representative men of this dis-
trict to convey to you some idea of the
great respect in which we hold you. We
have endeavored to give you an impression
of the deep admiration we have for your
genius. It remains for us to express the
disgust we feel for Pibroch’s shameful lack
of appreciation of your enterprise in bring-
ing the finest fruits of dramatic art to its
doors. We cowered with shame on behold-
ing the wretched audiences before which
you have played here, and feel ourselves
called upon to do what in our power lies to
redeem Pibroch’s good name. With that
intention, and your kind permission, we pur-
pose starting a subscription for Angus
Trevor, artist, gentleman and public bene-
factor.’
“The suggestion was greeted with clamor-
ous approval by the representative residents.
Angus Trevor was touched. He drew a
handkerchief, and with a small portion
soaked a tear from the left corner of
his right eye. ‘Gentlemen,’ he said, ‘you
stir me—you stir me profoundly. I thank
you. Angus Trevor thanks you from the
depths of his soul. It is true the muses
offer their humble votaries small rewards',
especially in Pibroch. I cannot disguise
from you the fact that such a douceur as
you purpose offering would be most welcome,
not for my sake alone, but for the sake of
those brave, simple, faithful followers who
repose their trust in me. But, good, kind
friends, dear brothers, since it is your inten-
tion to make me the unworthy object of your
beneficence, it would become me best, I
think, to retire at this juncture, and leave
you to plan out your work of humanity.
Good-night, brothers. God bless you!’
“He buried his face in the handkerchief,
and, bursting into tears, made an affecting
exit down C. that would have reminded you
of the late Henry Irving, with a new knot
in his left knee.
“When he had gone the or', ne mover of
the great jest slid to the floor, and
writhed there in an ecstasy of mirth. The
other representative Pibrochs did likewise.
They squirmed silently, for fear of alarm-
ing the quarry. Presently, having con-
torted to the extent the exquisite wit of the
conspiracy seemed to demand, they arose,
and set about preparing the documents.
“The great joke that was to bring glory
to Pibroch was abroad early next day. We
all discovered evidence of it when we walked
Main-road. There was an alertness in the
township previously unnoticed; obviously
the people were calling each other up to
inspect the victims. Trevor was an object
of peculiar regard. He was narrowly ob-
served, but trod the street in gracious
beatitude, erect, grey, grave, a refined and
impressive figure. It was a pity, he drank.
“Meanwhile the subscription list was
going round. I had serious suspicions
regarding it from the first, having had some
experience of the predisposition of way-
back peoples to a kind of dray-horse humor.
They will drag a joke 90 miles over the
hills, and toil at it for weeks, with the
patient assiduity and dumb reserve of
working bullocks, for the poor two-minutes’
gratification they can get out of exploding it
under some chicken-brained, dribble-chinned
drifter, who, after all, in nine cases out of
10, hasn’t wit enough to even discover that
anything unusual has gone off in his vicinity
of late. Being a very subsidiary character
with the co., concerned more with the up-
keep of the horses than scholarly renditions
of the man Hamlet, I was not so much in the
public eye at Pibroch, and. with the assist-
ance of a grafted moustache and a dummv
swag, contrived to get an eye on the said
list, as it lay at Hill’s general store. It
was contrived of several pages of a ledger,
pasted together, and rolled on a scrap of
broom handle, and, as far as I went, it
ran:—
COMPLIMENTARY SUBSCRIPTION.
From, the Admiring Residents of Pibroch to our
Gifted and Distinguished Visitor,
ANGUS TREVOR.
The collected valuables to be Presented to that
Fine Artist on the Occasion of the Last Appear-
ance of his magnificent Orion Dramatic Organisation
in Pibroch Shire Hall.
Henry Jenkins 1 peck fermented tomatoes.
lorn Gotch 3 doz. eggs—feverish.
Joseph Caldwell 1 ca t, in bad repair.
Jim Mosley . ... 1 bag consumptive onions.
A. Allard . . 3 hens—dead and in active preparation.
2O dead-shot turnips.
Stephen lliil 51b. corrupt butter.
Angus McLoughlin .... 1 half-bag tuberculous spuds.
And so on and on. Decayed vegetables and
unhealthy poultry were already promised in
sufficient numbers to bog the Shire Hall I
got back to Trevor, and entered into ex-
planations.
“ <i:t ’ s hish . time t 0 P ull out,’ I said.
Ihe.v are putting a nasty joke up on our
grand aggregation of histrioni.c wonders
This subscription’
“ ‘Yes, yes, yes, Patrick!’ answered


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
The Way to be Well is to Keep the Kidneys Well.
i '■
6very
Picture
Tells
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And
little wonder. A woman’s work, and care, and worry are enough
to break down a much stronger constitution than is given to most
o o
women —or men, either, for the matter of that. The kidneys are
invariably the first to feel the strain. And they let their needs
be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for help ; the
cry of the sick kidneys. There’s that awful dull ache away down
low in the back. Then comes sharp pains higher up, pains in
the limbs, headaches, a weary, never-rested feeling, a desire to
stay in bed in the morning—it’s all from the kidneys. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills help the kidneys ; they are made specially
to act on the kidneys. Doan’s Pills cure to stay cured. Read
this testimony :
A Lasting Cure of Eight Years.
Mrs. Emily Osborne, Store, 101 Foster Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, says: “Some years ago I
had a very bad attack of disordered kidneys, and, as a result, suffered agony from backache and
rheumatic pains all over my body. I was often so bad I could hardly get about the house, every
movement giving me increased pain. My rest at night was very disturbed, as it was impossible for
me to lie in one position for any length of time, owing to the nagging pain in my back. My ankles
and arms swelled & good deal, and were very painful if I touched them. I had no energy for anything,
and was really far from well. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recommended to me, and, after
taking a course of these grand pills, I was completely cured. My cure did not happen yesterday, but
eight years ago, and lam nleased to say I have been perfectly well ever since. I recommend
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills with every confidence as a sure cure for all svmptoms of kidney
trouble.”
or DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2/9 per bottle
(six bottles, 15/3), or
from Foster-McClel-
lan Co., 76 Fiti
Street, Sydney.
Trevor. ‘When I really want a lieart-to-
heart talk with you on easy ways out for
Willie Simple, I’ll send a message. Mean-
while, keep an eye on the horses, won’t
you?’
"‘Trevor,’ said I, ‘you can go to Hell.
Here s one that’s glad you’re getting wliat's
eoming to you.’
“ Must ..so, my boy, .pist so, cooed the
gifted management. ‘Have a drink.
“I heard later that Gregory Hungerford,
our stage manager and leading comedian,
was actually getting about briskly encourag-
mg this infamous subscription. This is liow
he gave it to Henry Jenkins, taking that
jocular bucolic by the hand, and almost
s haking him out ot his shirtmor
So you re working up a little offering
for our governor, I hear. The idea does
credit to your heart and your head, sir.
, ever was a man more deserving ot the glad
hand of sympathy and support than Angus
Irevor, an artist ot splendid abilities, but
simple as a child, and generous to a fault.
I m something of a tough nut myself, but
that man s sweet devotion to his. late .wife
broke me into tears ajjam and again. W hen
she uied, two months ago, he came from her
bedside, grey as you see him now. Yes, sir,
three hours of silent suffering did that,
Now he has only his child Irene, and his
art, ana upon that little child he pours the
prodigal wealth ot his great noble heart. It
anything happened little Irene, Ins splendid
heait Would crack before our eyes. God
bless you, sir, for your kindness to Angus
Irevor, one ot Nature s gentlemen, a man
for whom I would give my good right hand ,
Hungerford was putting the ad. misen-
cordiinn ail over I ibroch. He was billing
the town with Snuffle. Meanwhile, busi-
hoss bad taken a dying leap at the Shire
a : I eople were flowing in to gapeat us
as victims selected for sacrifice. ‘The Wrong
which superseded Ing. the Barb.,'
as , a success. Irevor extended
his dates, and hugged himself fondly; but I
!Y ie '!c •*" V .° i . a •. district _ was only
trooping in to select sites and nudge dis-
’v' ° ri rIIDR offertory of, de-
u ( t fauna and fermented flora at its miser-
“Then came the select picnic to Cockatoo
Falls, and the damp and dejected return,
With the limp body of Trevor’s little child
Irene. I was not one of the five principals
composing (he festive gathering at Cocka-
too, but saw tlie dripping form of golden-
haired Irene carried from the caravan into
tlie hotel by Trevor— a wet. despairing man,
With a liaunted look, and a dead-white face,
in the dark caverns of which gleamed two
terrible eyes.
“The pulse-quickening story went scream-
ins- through Pibroch. Angus Trevor’s child
had stumbled into Devil’s Pool beneath
the fall, and the distracted father had hurled
himself from the high rocks to save her.
Beaten about by the furious waters, driven
against the cruel stones, he had clung to his
preciotis burden, till at length his fellow
artists seized him. arid dragged him to the
shore. There lie lay, unconscious, clasping
Irene so closely to liis breast that tlie loving
embrace was broken only by the combined
strength of the company. Now the child
lay at the point of death, in Nation’s hotel,
with the father praying unceasingly at her
bedside.
“Fortunately, it was found that Fortescue
Hobbs, the walking gent, of the Orion
Diamatic Organisation, had been a doctor in
his humble youth, and this skilled physician
devoted all his abilities to the sufferer.
“Angus Trevor played that night. Never
was a mo re appealing object tlm- his ver-
sion G f Evertou, the ill used hero of ‘The
Wrong Wife.’ The house was crowded,
He was greeted with a great cheer, and
w hen, at the end of Act 3, he collapsed com-
pietely, and, on his knees in the centre of
t h e stage, cried: ‘My God, I cannot go
on y the audience burst into tears as one
harrowed sympathiser.
“The Pibroch Banner came out next
ning with a full and true account of
Trevor’s act of heroism and devotion, fol-
lowed by a touching description of his per-
formance in the evening. Then affectionate
inquiries after the little sufferer began to
pour in . There were hopes of saving her.
p seemed. Angus Trevor was still pray-
j n g.
“Once or twice Trevor appeared on the
street, hastening with trembling steps to the
chemist’s and hack. Lie was a pathetic
figure. His hair was now white as snow,
an d his pale cheeks were touched with the
hectic glow of fever.
“We had a packed house on the second
night after the accident. The great heart of
Pibroch was aroused. Yet I knew that the
subscription list was being circulated with
increasing activity.
“On the third night the gifted manage-
ment was in a position to tell its kind
friends in front that at length Irene was
ou t: of danger. She was so far recovered
that, after the following evening’s perform-
ance, tlie Orion Dramatic Organisation
would be able to take its departure from
Pibroch to fulfil pressing engagements else*
w here.
“Next morning Trevor graciously acceded
to a request for the use of the stage for a
f ew minutes after Act 111, when the lead-
jn g residents desired to give some effective
expression to the respect and admiration with
which Angus Trevor had inspired every man,
woman and child in the whole countryside.
1 . had , a temperature long before the
> , ™ n ” ne nt res,dents marched on but the
g ! f l ted management was cool and comfort*
f l , ' c l/ 1 inj ' I;\° !’- n leading fea-
l^ es v °[ th Y,!“ el } tai ’ y SU^ P ‘
tion list. Ihej weie aitajod as undei .
iWo'S.!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 3 guineas!
Joseph Caldwell 3 guineas.
Jim Mosley 3 guineas.
Walter Forbes .1 guinea.
Stephen Hill 1 guinea.
“In the name of the people of Pibroch,
Henry Jenkins was delighted to present
Angus Trevor with an address, and a purse
of sovereigns. There were SO of the best
and brightest in that purse. I was never
nearer to swooning dead away in all my life,
“We left next morning. Little Irene,
wrapped in a rug, was carried into the van.
The generous populace cheered us on our
way for two miles. Then we were alone
in the woods, and Irene arose cursing and
threw off her golden curls,
“ ‘See here, guvnor.’ he said, ‘don’t let
no more schemes o’ this sort generate in
yer brain barrel, coz I don’t wear a wiv in
bed for four days again fer no man livin’!’
“The offspring, as a matter of fact, was
Tommy Brett, a de-frocked jockey, who,
when he was not running for drinks, and
beating the firm’s carpet, played dirty urchins
and orphan girls with Trevor’s Orion Dra-
matic Organisation. Least said, soonest
ended.”
EDWARD DYSON.
The Daily Palseontolograph.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Institute of Surveyors, having heard the pre-
meditated plans for the Federal capital discussed, is
reported to have been of the opinion “that the Aus-
tralian capital should be built on an Australian de-
sign-” Why should an Australian necessarily be
chosen f— Sydney Telegraph>*(22/8/T2).
Visiting members of the British Association will
not only impart knowledge, but will also have a
splendid opportunity to acquire it. To the anthro-
pologist Australia is the most interesting country on
the face of the earth, since it contains the sole human
survivors of the palaiithic age.
Same paper, two days later.
OF course, you are all good scientists,
c amerados? One may take that for
granted ?
High, low, medium, ground and lofty scien-
tists —geologists, anthropologists, zoolo-
gists. conehologists, meteorologists, beer-
ologists, feminologists, seismologists,
astronomers, horsologists, quidologists,
icliyologists and palaeontologists?
Particularly palaeontologists—experts and
authorities upon the Science of Fossils !
Especially 'do I address the palaeontological
camerados— the men and brethren who
know all that can be known about dino-
saurs and megatheriums !
Also, do I request the rivetted attention of
those given to studying the manners and
customs of the elosaurs, the dinothe-
riums, the dimorphodons and the giant
petrified jimodactylobaddebtolophodon.
Further, finally and ill conclusion : Such of
yoli as have survived unto this present,
after a course of iguanndon, triceratops,
and Chimera Major, perpend mes
enfants!
Shortly you are to receive, and the miser-
able, unscientific camerados are to re-
ceive, intellectual cavalry of the most
heavily-learned description!
You will be' called upon to repel hoarders
filled to the brim With knowledge of
every misdescription !
They are coming to push forward the fron-
tiers of human knowledge, and human
achievement, and. ill the words of the
Daily Pal.xontolograpii, their pres-
sence must, or should, have an inspiring
effect upon you! (Do you not feel in-
spired, O Boeotians?)
They will impart knowledge to you. and you
shall enter the Halls of Learning and
gaze astonished at its majestic columns
of statistics !
All the -ologists shall have imparted to them
some new knowledge, save only our per-
fect palaeontologists!
Now you perceive, now you appreciate, O
palaeontological camerados, why especi-
ally do I address you !
The plethoric scientists from afar will teach
the mere -ologists and the beerologists.
and the ignorant, who cannot differenti-
ate between a Doctor of Phlebotomy and
a psedobaptist i
But from you, the Imparters of Knowledge,
are to acquire it!
The Daily says so;
therefore, it must be so.
Do you doubt the Pax.eontolograph?. ...
God forbid !. . . .
Very well, then! What are you going to
teach the Teachers?
You are going to teach them that this is the
most interesting country on the face of
the earth—
Rather —if I may be permitted to sharpen
the PALiEONTOLOGRAPii’s point—you are
going to teach them that this is the
most interest-paying country on the face
of the earth !
You are going to teach them that Rex
O’Malleus (on whom he peace!) is the
greatest man on the face of the earth!
You are going to teach them that the alleged
capital of an entire continent is to be
the most magnificent one-horse town on
the face of the earth!
You are going to teach them that the alleged
design of the aforesaid one-horse capital
had to he imported!
You are going to teach them that, strictly
in accordance with the tenets of the
Science of Fossils, everything should be
imported !
You are going to teach them that the Aus-
tralian capital must, necessarily, not
be of Australian design !
For, in the Pilatic phrase of the incompara-
able Palxcontolograpii : “ Why should
an Australian necessarily he chosent ”
Necessarily the Yankee, the Finlander and
all foreigners who have never even seen
Australia know all about it!
Ilow can a mere local competitor in toWti-
faking know anything of local condi-
tions and configurations?
Necessarily these things are revealed in
visions to .foreign designers, but con-
cealed froth otir sight!
To Australian eyes there is no water Worth
speaking of at Yass-Canberra, but be-
hold! the Yankee seer taketh up seven
rivers-full !
And great is the fulness thereof!
Again, therefore, as the redoubtable I'al./L-
-ontolograpii saith “ Necessarily the
science or art of faking-in water, where
water is not, has an exclusively cosmo-
politan application, instead of beimr
local in the driest sense of the word !!!"
fOr something like that.)
Why should an Australian necessarily he
chosen to do this thing?
Why should an Australian daily paper neces-
sarily he chosen for our reading?
Are we not importing the design?
Could we not import our daily papers, cam-
rrados?
Can we not import this capital, also? Is
icater non-importable?
Does not this country contain the sole human
survivors of the Palaeolithic Age?
Does not this country rejoice in possessing
the Daily Bal.xontolograpii?
You should teach the visiting Imparters. ot
Importers of Knowledge these things.
cam erados !
O Cosmos! O Crikey!
n.s'.w.
O. C. CABOT.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE=POWER
WESTING HOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
i w
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and,prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from to
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents-
New Zealand Agents
-Ho mes & Church, Brisbane, Q.
—Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
ĥ
Reliable.
kM
ħ
h
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
Car, it will repay you to investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylinder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE,
Sole Agents-
J 3175 Nett.
•3
375
Kent
Street
■W.
ĥ
EC ONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor —Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Write for full particulars to
Wt
When YOU have purchased a Steam Engine (just because you
thought it was cheap), and afterwards found it was “dear at
any price,’ have a few quiet moments to yourself and White
Tft T! «
WEWILL take up your trouble at this point
and Guarantee to supply you with a
Marshall
Steam
Engine.
A
Acknowledged to be
The Most Up-to-date
Engine
in the World.
Qrvm^i 6 OUr Word - Everyone says so - And, what everyone says must be true.
IKS 2 Y to N 3S%P C l2O I I P SOIb N W T r ACT P° NS Bailt *°r Australia.
Stationary l&S sfffKli ftSl S*.
Special Engine Oils, Packing, Belting, etc. Catalogues free Cash or Terms!
R. L SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.,
- - *
161 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
New Digestions for Old
strength for debility —cheerfulness for despondency—health for ill-
health—such are the good results following a course of Beecham’s
Pills. If you are suffering from indigestion or any of the complaints to
which it gives rise you will find the World’s Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least,
has been the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the past three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation are some of the many disorders from which you may find relief
After Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/11 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills),
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Self on Commission only.
Now and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
>RODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervotiß Conghg,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So/d by all Chemists.
U NCuIMtD MONEY & PROPERTY.
DOUGAL’S REGISTER to N EXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, &c., &c„ price
3/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
00UCAL & C0.,151 STRAND. LONDON, ENGLAND.
(Wistahlisheri nypy 60 Years.)
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Are Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running Costs.
The “UNION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
RELIABLE and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
PRICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Money-making Machinery.
MORE WORK
BETTER WORK
WE’VE GOT THE GOODS.
IN LESS TIME.
AT LESS COST.
Our Showrooms contain
High-speed Machine Tools.
High-speed Woodworking Machinery.
Waterous Band and Circular Mills.
Clarke Chapman’s Steam Winches.
Anything: & Everything: for Modern Industries.
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. GOODALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants.
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
“IZAL” DISINFECTANT
The only Disinfectant free from Carbolic and Cresylic Acids. The
most powerful germicide known. The only Disinfectant that is
miscible in Salt, Brackish, Hard of Soft Waters, and any Organic
Fluid. One part of “IZAL” to 400 parts of water makes a perfect
Disinfectant, and destroys all germs and insect life.
Wholesale depot:
T. K. Steanes, 37=43 Pitt St., Sydney
DICK’S PATENT
h
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADfc.
ĥ
MARK
The STRONGEST ami most EFFICIENT yet produced
Kvery Belt GUARANTEED. As a uuard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole
Importers:
James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE 'i
_ SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
f
%
«
»
m
m
STEAK PIPE INSULATION,
with Newail’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removable
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
Covering, etc.
With I" Covering, the saving of heat
effected over Unlagged Pipe is from
80 to 85% Write for Catalogues.
J.
* SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 Pitt St., Sydney.
Prell’s Buildings, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Waives, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Our WORKSHOPS are fitted with MODERN High-Speed TOOLS.
We manufacture ELECTRIC ELEVATORS.
WARBURTON, FRANK!, LTD., 307-311 Kent Street, Sydney. 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ħ
POWER MACHINERY.
The PHILIPS Pressed Steel Split Pulley
runs true, and can be quicKly placed on sbaft without
disturbing same. The combination is mechanically corred
and the design pleasing; a combination of strength and
grace insuring to the user entire satisfaction.
A SPECIAL- FEATURE.—The Spider and Rim are interlocKed by
means of dowel plates relieving rim rivets of all shearing strain*
Call or write for Price List*
Large Stocks carried of All Sizes.
SOLE AGENTS—
h
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
mu*
m
\
m
CHEAP FARMING m. RENDROCK
The Cheapest Farm Help in the World.
Greatly Reduces Cost of Felling Trees, Grubbing, Ditching, Draining
Swamps, Breaking Hardpan and Subsoil, Digging Holes for Trees .
Safe to Handle . Carried as Ordinary Goods -
No Magazine Required .
Full Particulars and Pamphlets from Sole Manufacturers —
H
16 Equitable Building, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Store and Works: Camperdown and Leichhardt.
s2s COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
