

Tie EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
R. Or. WATKINS «SC CO.,
107 Kent, Street, Sydney,
—FOK--
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BUSINESS MEN WHO TRAVEL
will find that our Head Office and Branches will readily assist them when they need
financial aid promptly and without tedious delay, on business-like conditions. Our
low rates of interest and very helpful terms appeal to discriminate business men.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO. Limited
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street 74,
Opposite National
Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W
215^217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
SO William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
1
v>..
7
a
M
&
c
m.
Williams’s, ISi Whisky
HOBA.R.T,
J&ftZ
[jailleys Orient (jotel.
PION
Ms:
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
r Take it back.
I must have-
HUTTON’S
PlllSillllll
fine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S
I
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
df
gdf
g
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
With PALMER cord tyres
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
, w.
■ ...
-.1
MALTHOID ROOFING.
In every clime, from the Alaska to Central Africa, the merits of Malthoid are
known and appreciated. Malthoid is unaffected by climate, and resists all
weathers, neither intense heat nor cold affect it, and under no circumstances
whatever can water penetrate it.
It is made in rolls most convenient to handle, and minimises freight consider-
ably.
Ordinary intelligence is all that is needed to lay it, while the satisfaction
assured is unbounded.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
* D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
■' *■' - ' ... • ■' .. :- . : ..v : v \*.. r--v ■ 0:
dfg
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S . V. o.
jlcojJatVirtueft*
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,.
7 Bent St. (op. Lands Office) Sydney, N.S.W
CZjQ€M&i fats < 9fzu>
•AeuJ+t jfist'
S&£3
HELIDON SPA
The Helidon Spa Water Co,, in its extensive distribution, has
placed “the rational water cure” within reach of all.
STARKEY & CO., LTD.,
ar.FHT*
The Bulletin
T01.33—N0. 1697.]
[Thursday, August 22, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dickens in Yorkshire, 1/9; posted, 1/10.
Hurd, A.: Command of the Sea, 3/6; posted, 3/9.
Sinclair, U.: Art ef. Health, 3/-; posted, 3/3.
Levy, D.: Modem Copper Smelting, 12/6; p., 12/10.
Lea: The Day of the Saxon, 9/-; posted, 9/4.
MeCullagh, F.: Italy’s War for a Desert, 12/6;
posted, 12/10.
Manaon, J.: The Complete Bowler, 4/6; p., 4/9.
Silburn: Evolution of Sea Power, 9/-; posted, 9/4.
Archer: Playmaking, 9/-; posted, 9/4.
Graham, S.: Where Socialism, 6/-; posted, 6/4.
Newbigin: Man and His Conquest of Nature, 2/-;
posted, 2/1.
Fry, 0. B.: Cricket, 2/6; posted, 2/9.
Pratt: Railway Muddle in Australia, 3/-; p., 3/3.
Science of the Sea: Issued by the Challenger
Society, 7/6; posted, 7/10.
Village Homes of England (Special Studio Number) ;
posted, 6/6.
TO ARRIVE SHORTLY—AMUNDSEN’S CONQUEST OF THE SOUTH POLE, 2 VOLS., 50/-
POSTED, 51/6.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
O. The Bron-
chial ' Tubes
of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of
one of the
Lungs
ds
CAUTION.—The large sale for
“Eumenthol JUJUBES” has led to a
number of imitations being manufac-
tured under the name of menthol and
other jujubes. It is important, there-
.fore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes, jlou
may be asked to buy other jujubes,
and be told they are “just as good” as
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This
proves that these imitations and sub-
stitutes have no reputation of then-
own, and can only be sold bn the good
repute and high character of Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins I/O.
The Red Page
The World Ahead of Us
YVhat will this world look like in 1999?
What direction will the trend of the progress
of humanity take? What goal has the evo-
lution of mankind, now grown self-
conscious? What fine organised thing can
we make out of this chaotic muddle of
20th century civilisation? Or is there any
goal or any improvement possible? These
questions are occupying the better brains of
the present age—this age unique in that it
is beginning to think more of the future than
of the present, more of the child than of the
father, more of the endowment of mother-
hood and the feeding of school-children than
of old age pensions. And inevitably such a
book as The Great State, essays in construc-
tion by 13 writers, headed by 11. G. Wells
and tailed by the Rev. Conral Noel (Harper,
per Dymock’s Library), has arrived —a kind
of text-book and road-guide into the future.
These essays are of very varying value;
there is a sort of loose unity between them,
but as each writer merely speaks from his
own point of view, there is necessarily some
contradiction: we must not mistake essays
and suggestions for a definite programme.
The result is as fairly complete a picture of
constructive social ideals as is possible in
the confused constructive thought of to-day.
The contributors ask not to be regarded as
Socialists.
The book aims to express the conditions
under which it is assumed the present chaos
will resolve itself into what is termed “The
Great State”—an ideal condition of civilisa-
tion perhaps possible within the next cen-
tury—and the social mechanism necessary to
hold that State together, The assumption
is made that the present organisation of
society cannot last much longer; either it
will evolve into something better, or it will
tremendously Wells defines his
ideal of the Great State as:—
A social system no longhr localised, no
longer immediately tied to and conditioned
by the cultivation of the land, world-wide in
its interests and outlook and catholic in its
tolerance and sympathy, a system of great
individual freedom with a universal under-
standing among its citizens of a collective
thought and purpose.
d*
The great difficulty in such a state would
be the problem of agricultural labor; but
Wells suggests that as so much of farm
work is seasonal, a migration to and fro
between rural and urban conditions would
be entirely practicable in a largely planned
community.
But, of course, no class is going to submit
to being condemned to life-long labor.
Of all impossible social dreams that belief
in tranquillised and submissive and virtuous
labor is the wildest of all. No sort of mod-
ern men will stand it. They will, as a
class, do any vivid and disastrous thing
rather than stand it.... For a time, indeed,
a labor mass may be fooled and coerced, but
in the end it will break out against its sub-
jection even if it breaks out to a general
social catastrophe.
Wells suggests that the residue of rough,
disagreeable, monotonous operations—the
washing-up of mankind—will be undertaken
by the expedient of some form of conscrip-
tion, which will devote, say a year, of each
person’s life to the public service. But what
"sort of person is going to run the Great
State? Not permanent officials, but
amateurs serving for definite periods, fevery
citizen will have his minimum wage, on
which he can live well, but he may do any
other work he likes, and thus earn more.
I would like to underline in the most
emphatic way that it is possible to have this
Great State,, essentially Socialistic, owning
and running the land and all the great pub-
lic services, sustaining everybody in absolute
freedom at a certain minimum of comfort
and well-being, and still leaving most of the
interests, aniusements and adornments of the
individual life, and all sorts of collective
concerns, social and political discussion, re-
ligious worship, philosophy and the like, to
the free personal initiatives of entirely un-
official people.
d*
Now let us picture some of the outstand-
ing features 6f the Great State, as suggested
by other essayists. The railways and trams
and cars will be free, just as the roads are
free to-day. The farmer will disappear; he
will always be within easy reach of all the
advantages of the town. Indeed, he will
very seldom live outside the town. The
private shopkeeper will become' obsolete
—the State will do the distribution—
and all the waste of advertisement
will be saved. It is well known,
for instance, that there is practically
only one kind of tea, yet how much money
is wasted in providing special packets and
advertisements to induce the public to be-
lieve that there are a hundred kinds of tea,
each of which is the best. So, also, in the
present scribe’s humble opinion, all whiskies
are the same whisky, or not whisky at all.
Actors would all be amateurs, hiring the
Great State's theatres to perform classics
like The Time is Not Yet Ripe. (By the
way, w r hen the Great State arrives, the time
will be ripe.) The State newspaper will
record facts, not opinions; but there will
be other papers, owned and directed by ama-
teurs. Everybody will be both amateur and
professional, doing liis share of the produc-
tive work of the State as a professional, and
occupying his spare time—of which he will
have ample—in the exercise of his amateur
talent. Every class will be largely a leisure
class. “The Great State will regard it as
a thing impossible to condemn a man to be
a coal-miner for life. The mining conscript
will go to his term of service as a matter
of duty and with pride.” Individual saving
will be both unnecessary and unknown in
the Great State.
The saving that will be made by State
organisation of distribution is happily illus-
trated by what now happens to Australasian
wool.
Australasian wool imported into Britain
is chiefly used in Yorkshire, but the greater
part of it is childishly landed, not at Hull
or Goole, but in London, where it is played
pranks with by hosts of railway companies,
carriers, warehousemen, brokers, auction-
eers, etc. After having been played with,
and pro tanto raised in price, it is gravely
conveyed, again by competitive railway com-
panies and carriers, to Yorkshire. But this
is to imagine no waste prior to the ridi-
culous landing at a port hundreds of miles
from the place where the material is wanted.
When we remember that in Australasia
similar absurdities occur, and similar un-
economic “livelihoods” are made out of the
product by the wasted work of thousands, we
have a picture of waste from start to finish
which gravely reflects upon the competence
of mankind.
d*
One of the essayists has a good word for
race-suicide, beginning, by the way, to show
itself in Germany. When restriction of
families reaches the lowest strata of all com-
munities, there will be no more of that alarm-
ing increase of population which is the basic
cause of most wars. And artificial restric-
tion of families will lead to the possibility
of earlier marriages, and the attainment of
a higher standard of living among the
lowest classes.
To return to the Great State. Our pre-
sent criminal law affects practically only
those classes who are deprived of all the
higher pleasures of life. But with a fair
distribution of the fair things of life there
will be little inducement to rob, while mur-
ders are nowadays due more to the economic
pressure under which we live than to any
innate evil in man. “It is merely silly to
kill a wife or concubine when there are
means to divorce the one or to make decent
provision for the other. The want of these
things manufactures 50 per cent, of our
murderers. It is equally absurd to kill an
illegitimate child if its birth does not pillory
the mother so that her earning power is re-
duced exactly in proportion to her necessity
for more.” So in the Great State sordid
crime will disappear, and only romantic
crime, the crimes of passion, will remain.
From a picturesque point of view, this is
good news. In politics, Chesterton, appalled
by the professionalism of politics in Eng-
land, insists that the profession of executive
administrator must be kept strictly separate
from the profession of delegate to the Legis-
lature : he would have no Ministry. Its
place will be taken by permanent heads of
departments under the control of the popu-
lar assembly. And the electorate must have
the power of recalling or punishing a repre-
sentative who ceases to represent his consti-
tuents. But Chesterton would prefer, in-
stead of the present geographical method of
representation, candidates elected by guilds
or trades. These have a homogeneity which
would lead to collective action- —a thing im-
possible for the present unorganised geo-
graphical constituency.
J*
For the woman the Great State spells
economic independence and the end of mar-
riage as a profession. The mother will draw
her professional income for a certain number
of years, in addition to an endowment for
each child. Our Prime Minister is merely
anticipating the Great State by his baby
bonus. “The State has not the right to
demand from woman—either directly or in-
directly, by bribe or by indirect pressure—
that she, in return for its protection, shall
consider herself under any obligation to pro-
duce its future citizens.” She is going to be
regarded as a personality, not merely as the
reproductive faculty personified. It is pos-
sible that the woman of the Great State will
draw a sharp distinction between frying
bacon and marital love. Marriage is at
present domestic service without wages. “The
only thing we know with certainty concern-
ing the attitude of the human race towards
housework is that men dislike it. Women,
if asked, might be of the same opinion. So
far they have not been asked.” Woman
will also be allowed to vary from the stan-
dard of uniformity of taste and tempera-
ment imposed by the male. Instead of assum-
ing that all variations from the accepted
idea of woman are unnatural and freakish,
the man of the Great State will have realised
that the really unnatural and abnormal
feature about womanhood in general was its
unfortunate lack of such variation, the arti-
ficially unhealthy uniformity of type pro-
duced by generations of economic pressure
and restriction of opportunity.
&
The most valuable essay in the book is one
that indicates how far already we have
anticipated the Great State. There need be
no transition period; we are already on the
high road. The Great State will not be a
spontaneous creation; it will be achieved by
a development of the machinery already
possessed by mankind. Industrial war is
already crushing out wasteful competition.
The smaller men, even the smaller States,
are being eliminated by the financial million-
aires. But the final control cann'ot be
allowed to the final survivor of that \var of
giants. Added to this are the revolt of woman,
and the general demand of wage-earners,
salaried men, the struggling professional
classes, the smaller traders threatened with
extinction, for a fuller share of the good
things of life. All these see that the present
social organisation offers them less and less
chance of satisfaction: all see that their
salvation lies along the same road. The
Great State demands a better class of citi-
zen ; nations are beginning to find that it
pays to have not only the best machinery,
but the best human machinery. It is known
that it costs less to prevent disease than to
cure it—hence the nationalisation of the
medical profession and free treatment. Free
meals are already given to English school-
children in urgent cases; this logically leads
to the provision of all meals for all children.
Everywhere is spreading the communal feel-
ing—the tame sort of thing that a dead poli-
tician once named “Sosh.” It is probable
that a full minimum of food, clothing, hous-
ing and travel may, within a comparatively
short time, become the right of everyone.
But there will not be an equality of in-
come, though graduated income taxes will
keep that income within safe limits. The
maximum wage will be won by some kind of
bargaining between the trades-unions and
the State Departments. Collective house-
keeping will free the women from many of
their unnecessary burdens, and, of course,
this largest body of workers —the producers
of the most valuable product, children: —will
have their mother’s trades-union wage. And
the family will disappear as a social unit. It
is doubtful, too, whether there need be, or
will be, a definite survival of Christianity
as such. “Christianity, as we kfiow it at
present, makes no insistence upon under-
standing and mental alertness as duties, nor
upon the supreme necessity of thoroughness
in thought and work. It is not a critical
religion; it is emotionally sound, perhaps,
but critically careless.”
So there is the Great State- —created by
13 Great Statesmen.
—————— ;
“Hee Kee”: In his drama, The War God
(reviewed on a recent “Red Page”), Zang-
will makes a curious bloomer. When
Frithiof is up for execution, Brog addresses
the firing squad thus: “All ready, men?
Present arms! Fire!” And Frithiof is not
shot. A man of Zangwill’s brains should
know that to “present arms” is to bring the
rifle to a position perpendicular with the
body, and if fired in this position the only
object likely to be hit would be a stray
aeroplane or carrier pigeon; and unless
Zangwill’s men were armed with a new type
of rifle with a curved barrel which fired
boomerangs, Frithiof, while he maintained
his ground, would be as safe as the pro-
verbial holy edifice.
The recent “Red Page” review of Ransome’s book
on Oscar Wilde reminds H. G. Coghlan: First saw
Oscar in the late 70’s. The aesthetic craze was then
booming, but Wilde, on that day, at any rate, wore
nothing like the weird costume catalogued by Ran-
some., That “too, too quite utterly but” raiment
he evidently reserved for special occasions,, private
and semi-private. In the streets of those days, his
stoutish 6ft. (or nearly) carried nothing more re-
markable than long black hair, a brown or black
velvet coat, and the floppy cravat that may go with
talent, and certainly means untidiness. Wilde, in
those days, was scarcely more remarkable in ap-
pearance than Benjamin Disraeli or Henry Irving.
For eccentric walk, Londoners would certainly have
given “the worst Romeo of them all” points over
Oscar and Benjamin. London Punch pictured him as
“Jellaby Postlethwaite,” the Du Maurier gibe which
scored most heavily depicting Wilde seated at a
restaurant table, on which was nothing but a vase
containing a lily, “Jellaby” posing over the flower
with devouring eyes, and—Waiter: “Shall I take
your order, sir?” “Jellaby Postlethwaite: “Thank
you; I have dined.” The last time I saw Wilde was
after his return from the American lecturing tour.
( Punch explained why he was “disappointed with the
Atlantic” in a back-view sketch of him hanging
helplessly over the side.) He lectured one afternoon
at the Gaiety Theatre, Dublin, on “The House Beauti-
ful.” He had cut his hair, and wore a badly-fitting
frock coat over yellowish tweed pants. He discoursed
lifelessly upon color harmonies in furniture, dadoes,
friezes and the mid-wall for an hour. Then he
paused, fixed the audience with a cold, boiled gaze
for 10 seconds, suddenly flung his arms up, and ex-
claimed, “And now we come to the ceiling. Ah!
what a problem is there!” Rude voice from gal-
lery: “Go yourself; we’ro not flies!” After that,
decorum was somewhat frayed, and departing foot-
steps interrupted the solution of the problem that
hangs over mankind. Wilde was only about SO then.
One looks in vain through Australian
Songs, by William J. MacDonald (Austra-
lian Authors’ Agency, Melbourne) for a
single excuse for its publication. A fore-
gone conclusion, perhaps, since the book
contains an alleged “Ode on the Coronation
of George the Fifth.” A sample from “The
Barmaid,” which more fittingly should be
quoted in the “Answers to Correspondents”
column: —•
The Lawyer, Dentist, Broker, Journalist,
The Betting Man, the Policeman, and the Clerk,
The Soldier and the Pugilist,
All at their valiant task I do remark;
Each trade and known profession she serves there,
And draws them Barwards with her silky hair.
Three more species of the eucalyptus are
critically described and illustrated in A Criti-
cal Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus, that
huge and comprehensive work that _J. H.
Maiden is doing for the botany of this con-
tinent, making part 15 of the complete work.
Price 2s, 6d., published by the N.S.W. Govt.
Printer.
Novel Notes
Oliver Onions improves. In Accordance
with the Evidence (Bell, per Lockley Li-
brary) is work of the highest artistic
quality. It is a murder story, treated
psychologically. The murderer tells the
sordid story of himself and another under-
paid London clerk ; and step by step he shows
how it became necessary for him to murder
the flashy weakling who was engaged to the
girl the hero meant to marry. The infinite
pains he took to create the right relationship
between himself and the other persons of the
story—he even went to the length of becom-
ing engaged to another girl—to prevent any
suspicion falling on him for the murder; the
careful campaign he planned to accumulate
evidence that would point to the other’s
death as a suicide; the methodical execution
of his almost justified murder—all this is
admirably in character with the psychology
of the murderer. And, of course, the murder
was never found out, and the murderer got
the girl and grew rich. The story is told
with artistic reticence; and not one tiny
detail is superfluous in the building up of the
plot or in the elucidation of the inter-i-elation
of the characters. The book holds the atten-
tion to the finish. The only criticism is the
question whether' the book was worth while,
whether the author’s psychological intuition
could not have been exercised in a more
suitable medium.
A. R. Goring-Tliomas’s third novel, Way-
ward Feet (Lane), fails to fulfil the thin pro-
mise of this once-Australian writer’s earlier
efforts. These were distinguished by alight
cheekiness, a flippancy of characterisation, a
smartness of trivial dialogue. Wayward Feet
is an attempt to be serious. The construction
of the novel —a love affair of a French girl,
charmingly drawn—-is spoiled by the addition
of another story, the reason for its inclusion
being beyond the comprehension of the present
critic. And his first story ends in a needless
tragedy—it looks as if the author got tired.
The smartness of the dialogue, the author’s
sole asset, is here lacking except in a few
delightful scenes. But these do not make a
novel.
Clever stuff, but a trifle too thin, is the col-
lection of out-of-the-way stories and sketches
by R. B. Cunninghame Graham, entitled
Charity (Duckworth per Lockley Library).
Cunninghame Graham gets laudatory notices
from his English critics: the Australian
critic needs a little more virility and a little
less literary artifice.
It is time that his publisher shipped Put-
nam Weale somewhere east of Suez again.
Instead of writing valuable books, on sub-
jects that he has intimately studied, such as
The Conflict of Color, and The Coming
Straggle in Eastern Asia, he has turned to
the ordinary novel, and produced the ordinary
novel. The Revolt (Methuen, per George
Robertson, Sydney) is well written, though
his characters talk too much; and there is
no room in this tragedy of love, set in
Europe, for. his special knowledge of the
Asiatic. And just now we want all the
knowledge of the Asiatic that is forthcoming.
An interesting experiment is One Of Us,
a novel in verse, by Gilbert Frankau (Chatto
and Windus, per Dymock’s Library) ; but
one wonders why Gilbert did it. He dedi-
cates his work:—
To Ella Wheeler Wilcox, Homer, Pope,
To Seaman, Swinburne, Camoens and Shelley,
To him who first in advertising trope
Extolled the virtues of an oxine jelly,
To Milton, Alfred Austin, Laurence Hope,
To Dante Alighieri and Corelli;
But most of all to Byron:—
But what’s a hundred winters, more or less?
Fate gives the same old cards another shuffle:
Thy Scotch reviewers are my Yellow Press,
My pleated shirtfront is thy Mechlin ruffle;
My Suffragettes, thy “Blues” in modern dress;
Thy waltzers crave my double Boston’s scuffle ;
My Don Juans are Gunners, Guards, or Sappers;
Their Julias—widowettes ; their Haidfies—flappers.
The thing is done gaily, with infinite clever-
ness of rime and ease of metre. But, of
course, nobody nowadays will take the trouble
to read it through.


cute
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
ECONOMY IN ELECTROPLATE
No. 1022 — Oak Biscuit
Barrel, mounted Elec-
troplate on Nickel Silver,
Chased Lid, 21/-
w
No. 979—Toast Back,
Electroplate on Nickel Sil-
ver, 12/3.
Butter Dish, Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, Chased Design.
8/3.
No. 1072 —Flower Vase,
Electroplated on Britannia Metal.
Eng-raved Glass Vase, 8/-
No. 1024— China Bis-
cuit Barrel, Mounted
Electroplate on Nickel Sil-
ver, Choice Design, 10/6.
No. 1010—Single Jam
hi sh, Electro-Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver
Frame, Colored Glass
D:sh, 8/6.
No. 1047 — Oval jtiiiixi-ee Dishes,
10in. Electroplate on Nickel Silver.
56/- pair.
1049 — Oblong Entree Dishes,
Electroplate on Nickel; Silver, • 10in>,; Ele-
galit Design, 75/- pair.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE
GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor
_ THE GEM JUNIOR solves the Shaving Problem for the man with a tender
skm or strong beard. It cannot be excelled for easy and luxurious shaving.
There is no risk if you buy a GEM JUNIOR Safety Razor; it makes every
man an expert barber,»and is the apex of Razor perfection. Easy, velvet-like
strokes —never a pull, never a scratch, are features of the GEM JUNIOR, which
assures a clean, safe shave.
THE GEM JUNIOR is always ready for use, with a fresh blade for every
day of the week. It is so simple that a novice can use it.
GEM JUNIOR BLADES are as thin as an edge-holding piece of steel can
possibly be rolled. They can be sharpened time and time again, because they’re
tempered to receive an edge and to hold it when they get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new bar feature, which carefully
spreads the skin, so that'the stubble is forced out far enough to give as close a
shave as can be secured by going over the face twice with any other razor.
THE GEM JUNIOR SAFETY RAZOR is made and finished in the best
style, of the finest materials, and by the Highest Skilled Labor. It comprises
Nickel Plated Frame, Extra Handle for Stropping Blades, and SEVEN Keen-
edged Blades. Complete in neat Leatherette Case.
Anthony Horderns*
Price
51-
Post Free all over
Australia,
iUUuID i.M4
i'M itiA/
EXTRA BLADES, 2|l per Packet of 7,
Post Free.
Gem Palace Safety Razor
Ari Edition de Luxe of the Gem
Junior. Handsomely finished, triple
silver plate, with twelve special blades
for heavy beards. The GEM PALACE
makes an ideal present for any man.
Price 12/6; By Post, 13/-
Extra Blades, 2/3 per Packet of 6 ;
by Post, 2/4.
ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
... ON ...
Anthony Horderns’ UNIVERSAL Bicycle
Built of B.S.A. Parts and Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
FRANCIS BIRTLES, the overland cyclist, always rides Anthony
Horderns' UNIVERSAL BICYCLE on his long-distance
journeys all over Australia. Pioneering a route round the
continent — \ 6,500 miles on the one machine —he demonstrated
that the UNIVERSAL BICYCLE is the best bicycle built.
The Universal
Bicycle,
built by Anthony
Horderns’, of
B.S.A. parts, as
ridden by Birtles,
with Eadie Two-
speed Coaster
Hub, free wheel on
both gears, back-
pedalling and
front rim brakes.
Fitted with Dun-
lop Tyres,
£l2/10/-
FRANCIS BIRTLES on the UNIVERSAL Bicycle.
Built at ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FACTORY.
The Universal
Bicycle,
built of genuine
B.SiA. parts, to
order, or stock
models.
With Oceanic
Tyres,
£lO.
With Dunlop
Tyres,
£ll.
With E a d i e
Coaster Hub and
Dunlop Tyres,
£ll 10s,
Ladies’ Models,
20/- extra.
Cyclists all over Australia ride the UNIVERSAL Bicycle because it
is a roadster that may be relied upon to give perfect satisfaction.
Write for Bicycle and Sports List—Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
For Watches and Jewellery
tun
p*
/
few
Send for Illustrated Price List of Jewellery, post free on
request. It will prove a Saver of Sovs.
~9m THE CELEBRATED UNI OPEN-FACE
WATCH, with |-plate, Keyless Lever move-
ment ; ten jewels, and compensation balance.
The UNI is specially constructed to stand
hard wear, with a dust-proof case. It is
thoroughly accurate and reliable, and is the
best value for the money south of the Lipe.
Nickel Case... .... >l2/6
With Oxidised Case 12/6
With Silver Case 21/-
THE UNI SOLID SOLVER HUNTING
KEYLESS WATCH,. fiplate, compensation
balance; fully jewelledl; perfectly timed and
adjusted. Enamelled dial, dust-proof case.
Guaranteed.
PRICE 25/-
THE UNI SIRDAR a. a good, strong,
knock-about keyless wafach. It has a non-
magnetic, keyless movement.; fully jewelled ;
compensating balance. It iis a (thoroughly
dependable and accurate watch. (Guaran-
teed.
Solid Nickel Case ... 16/6
Oxidised ... ... 18/6
Nickel Hunting Case 22/6
Silver Open Face ... 30/-
Silver Hunting Case 37/6
All Watches are timed and adjusted before
being despatched from our estub iShment.
fg
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace ILmporitxm
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEV ENS
FAVORITE No. 17.
s
df
ft
Furnished with Automatic Ejector in 22 calibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For -22 Long Rifle, -25 Stevens and •32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibre you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS are the “ Bull’s Eye ” Kind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., apply to
RTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [2
mo
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
SH'.all
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS-ALL PRICES —ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN C? CO., Pty. Ltd., 276 8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
gsd
Experiments on
Human Beings,
have proved the
body - building
power of Bovril
to be from 10 to
20 times the
amount taken.
nSeetKaiTLS
Is the most periect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
fg
dfg
»
PROTECT YOUR-
SELF AGAINST
DISEASE.
r KEEP
HYCOL
IN THE HOME
Use it to-day
and every day.
(t is non-poisonons.
(8 times stronger
than Carbolic.
Agents i
JN.S.WJ Agents: *
POTTS & GO.,
163 George St., Sydney.
MO ST
PeWERIUL
EADIE
Ml l 1,11 EADIE i»
I 1111 COASTER |«
« , »
0‘
Never Failing Efficiency
is guaranteed to all cyclists using the Eadie Coaster
or the Eadie Two-Speed Coaster. The
Eadie Coaster
contains the “brake which never fails”—the brake that
answers immediately to the slightest backward pressure of
the pedals, and enables the rider to coast down the steepest
hill in safety and negotiate dense traffic with ease. The
Eadie Two-Speed Coaster
is identical with the Eadie Coaster, but has the addi-
tional advantage of a perfect variable gear. Any agent
can fit them to old or new machines without altering
the frame. A revelation of luxury to road riders.
Fully described in the latest B S.A. Handbook, obtainable from
D. Y. RENNIE 'Representing The B.S.A. Co.. 1 ,
c. Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®, Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The favourite
SCOTCH WHISKY
everywhere, because of mature
ripeness, soft refinement, and exquisite
flavour.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
The D ISTILLERS P OMPANY I td
Largest Scotch Whisky Capital employed Mmd
Distillers in the World, over .£3.000,000.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
SYDNEY —Angel Place.
MELBOURNE— 53, William St
Underwear
Hade in
England
MARK
JQVHJ.
The “ BIRD MARK’’ on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by alf Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks. in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World's Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Bali-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U-S.A.
RICHARDSON
df
CHICAGO


75 Years
with Coughs
We have had seventy-five
years’ experience with Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. This makes
us have great confidence in it
for coughs, colds, bronchitis,
weak throats, and weak lungs.
Ayer's
We want you to have confidence
in this medicine also. You cer-
tainly will, if only you give it a
good trial. Ask your doctor
what confidence he has in it.
Sold in three sizes.
Hard colds and coughs often
upset the whole system. The
liver becomes sluggish and you
have constipation, indigestion,
biliousness. Just remember
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills, act
directly on the liver. Dose, only
one pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO.,
Lowell. Mass., TJ.S. A.
NTJ
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write.us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877
Health follows
regular use of
the
Montserrat
I Lime Juice
Sauce
Of all Storekeepers.
It makes
,you enjoy
your food.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1506.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eny.
“SUNOL”
The “Perfect”
gd
fg
Pipe Tobacco
AWARDED 4 GOLD MEDALS.
DARK or LIGHT
In Plug
or Cut.
6|-
per lb.
Post Free.
Try it To-day,
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when ordering.
Drunkenness cured.
* iady can cure the most violent drunkard —secretlv —at home f*OT 111.' v
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken bv the most deiicaten™
of either sex. It total’-y eradicates all craving for simulants? creS a last
x ln £ antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a W Hale
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and ful par&uts
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET. SYDNEY,'n sw!
AS SURELY AS THE SUN SHINES
WE
Can Really Develop
Your Bust!
IF you wish to possess that feminine
magnetism that draws men and
women, you must possess figure, and a
good bust—firm and well rounded—is
the first essential; well-rounded arms,
a nicely-turned neck, and a full (even
if plain) face will, combined, give you
an advantage socially over your pretty-
faced but scrawny friends.
It is the refreshing firmness
and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates,
and it is the woman who is
most correctly developed who
monopolises the endearments of the op-
posite sex.
By following our advice, thousands of
weak, thin, run-down, anaemic women,
positively devoid of the semblance of
bust development, many suffering from
functional internal disorders, constipa-
tion, biliousness, weak stomach, aching
back, and some of the various other
complaints that make women miserable,
have been restored to robust health, and
df
A flat chest, with scrawny arms and shoulders, greatly
counterbalance all the effect a pretty face can give.
now possess full, well-rounded, correctly-
developed figures. Let us tell you, ab-
solutely . free of charge, how you may
accomplish the same result. Send a 2d.
stamp for Free Trial Sample of
Treatment and full particulars. Write
to-day. Lady attendant if you can call.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD GO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
r «
urn
Aal9
Underwear.
r The all-Australasian-
wool underwear with
the softness of silk. And unshrinkable too!
The most delicate and tender skins will not be irritated by
It has the softness of silk at a fraction of the price. And
is unshrinkable. No matter how often it goes to the laundry it
will retain its original size. If it doesn’t the makers will replace
the garment. wear costs no more than the ordinary,
and as it is so much better it is worth insisting upon.
Stockings, Socks and Underwear for Men, Ladies
and Children. In all prices.
"Jfiz&OTL, made Jerseys for Children are splendid wear.
Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers & Stores. If your dealer does
not stock “fawn, he can ootain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty, write for “Jason” booklet
aud name of nearest agent to—
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. j
Tobacco
gdf
Kills!
MOST MEN would
i cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (B. CO.,
Dept. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, o/o Sydney Agents.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
■old to date.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Csn you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
PESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following-
-8 5 0
5 10 0
1 17 6
Usual Price. Sale Price.
Double-Barrelled, Breech-load-
ing Guns, engine-turned rib,
left barrel full choke, right
modified, rebounding locks
and pistol grip. Trial ..£5 2 6 £312 6
Single-barrelled Duck Guns,
large bore, to kill at 100yds.
Trial
Single-Barrelled, Hammerless,
Breech-loading Guns, choke
bore, excellent stock. Trial.. 3 10 0
Double-Barrelled Breech load-
ing Guns, with Greener pat-
ent wedge fast cross bolt,
choke bore, walnut stock,
pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial
Special Pigeon Guns, with pat-
ent side clips, file cut rib,
top lever, choke bore, speci-
ally selected walnut stock,
Greener patent wedge fast
cross bolt. Trial . .
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22
calibre. Kill at 300yds. Trial 0 15 0 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
10 0
4 17
10 0 0
7 10 0
All Orders for Guns and Rifles delivered Carriage
Paid to any address in Australasia.
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & importers,
242-244 Bourko St., MELBOURNE
‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Lyric of Lunacy.
Basing his calculations on the present rate at
which lunacy is increasing, Dr. Forbes Winslow
makes the startling prophecy that in 300 years hence
there will be more lunatics than sane people in the
world. —A recent cable.
’Tis a mad, mad world, my masters! And
the men less mad than me
Have evolved a froth-mouthed picture of the
wild-eyed days to be,
When the folk will heap derision on our
senseless lunacy!
They will hear of how we grafted from the
morning until night
In the office, field and fact’ry with our un-
remitting might,
For the privilege of bedclothes and a three-
times-daily bite.
They will hear, what time they idle, of our
Saturday recourse
To the places dedicated to the sometimes
speedy horse,
To the play, and to the preacher—and the
temples of divorce.
They will hear of how we builded in our
madness men of straw,
And rewarded them with riches for each
disrespected law
That exuded from the tumult of their huge
collective jaw.
They’ll be told we placed reliance on the
fatted daily press,
Save we who wrote its leaders to an adipose
excess—
And got drunk to drown our consciences for
fear we might confess.
They will hear of heavens promised, and a
hot material hell,
Of the saints who strove to save us with a
chorus and a yell—
With their loudness growing louder as the
holy coppers fell.
They will read or hear about us—we, the
People Who Were Sane
In the days before Creation got a kink
across its brain ;
And they’ll say: “O Fate, preserve us from
such sanity again.”
n.s.w.
R. J. CASSIDY.
The New Era.
Poets and artists must be tolerated and even
conciliated.— Wowser pronouncement.
Awake! Arise! ! Crawl from your squalid
holes,
Scared Poets! Strut the streets like new-
made caliphs !
Henceforth you’re tolerated!! Actual souls
We grant you, equally with lowly bailiffs,
Bad, wicked barmaids, boxers, backstairs
boarders,
Chows, women, and the other lower orders.
Glory ! Eureka !! not to say, Whaffor !! !
I see a new world rise before my vision;
I see our poetasters (now no more
Objects of Scotchbyierian derision)
Fed from the hand, washed, brushed, black-
clothed and feted,
Purred on by curates bland— conciliated!
L—WS—N, immersed in pure white soulful
dreams,
Lisps limpid lays of missionary matters;
McGR—E, at Mothers’ Meetings rising,
beams,
And gives some helpful talks on baby
satyrs;
While fiery BR—DY, put upon his mettle,
Serves bath-buns like a chastened Captain
Kettle !
Q —NN, hand-in-paw with elders, takes the
chair
(His whitewashed muse to lyric tractlets
turning),
At knee-drill bouts and weird revivals, where
AD —MS’ wild shouts pluck sinners from
the burning;
Large B—DF—RD, on the text of “spirit-
love,”
Roars you as gently as a sucking-dove!
O joyful day ! O Moral Progress’ crown !!
O trebly-blest magnanimous grave Wow-
sers
Who from your heights, like maiden-aunts,
stoop down
To pat our heads and patch our (moral)
trousers!
High up in Heaven this day the old gods’
rafter
Rings to an inextinguishable laughter!
victoria. The Unregenerate Ambrose.
The Escape.
His name was Artaxerxes Brown,
A fellow of commanding mien—
An actor he of some renown,
'titum Pushed half the posts in town,
While telling how, in such a scene,
He d won their cheers,
Or stirred his audience to tears.
Lor niai W days we had not met
a Artaxerxes at the bars.
And then we heard the time was set
When he must wed the Widow Trett
A dame who entertained the stars,
fche ran, in short,
A boarding-house at Holland Court.
to see the previous act.
Ihe bride was forty-five and grim
Her face was very hard; in fact,
Made callous from its long impact
With wicked actor-men like him.
That home of hers
She’d run for six-and-twenty years.
Another night he told the tale:
She held him for his board and bed :
He could not Pay, could find no bail;
« T dung to him with tooth and nail.
“A * as .M r ca P tiy e dree,” he said,
And so, t fay,
I married her to get away!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


218-222
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
THE HUB
OF NEWTOWN
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
SPECIAL No. I.—Australian' Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully finished,
large double-bed size, weighing 71b., for... , I©/ 11
SPECIAL No. 2.—Australian All-Wool Blanket, extra large sine ; the best grey Blank** manufac-
tured for the price, weight 7Jib 16/11
SPECIAL No. 3. —Heavy English Whitney Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 7jrlb.,
for the double-bed size, only . 15/41
SPECIAL No. 4.—An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grey English-made Blanket, double-
bed size, weighing 71b., for . 10/6
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
“MY LADY” SHOE.—-For dress and walking wear, is made of fine patent colt-skin, with bops of
dull velvet, calf inlaid. This Shoe has a flexible, sewed extending sole and a comPoftei'bie
Cuban Heel. The giant, fast-colored eyelets, and the wide silk laces add much to the general
attractiveness. This Shoe is modelled cm a new toe-shape, this season’s style. A grand fitter ;
sizes 2 to 7. Price 14/9
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot; with occasional applications of Lucua or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, 5 to 10. Price 12/6
<
<9
A
&
HE
T
m
<
©
rf UB
rv
r:
Our Motto —
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
g
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
!f not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. excra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
WUNDERLICH
METAL CEILINGS.
THE STANDARD of ARTISTIC CEILINGS, embodying
SAFETY, DURABILITY, HYGIENE and COMFORT.
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILINGS
can be adapted to any class of Biiilding—
COTTAGE HOME, SHOPS or PUBLIC
EDIFICE, in CITY or COUNTRY.
• • •• •• ••
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILING
Sheets and Panels are made from the finest
<■; . steel.
, • ■ > " The Designs, stamped by powerful hammers,
are clear and sharp.
Packed flat in cases, they are easy to trans-
port by road or rail.
WUNDERLICH CEILING MATERIALS
bear the Registered TRADE MARK.
Materials so marked represent character,
reputation and the highest standard ever
reached in modern ceilings.
A Post Card addressed to any of our Branches will bring to you, free of charge, our Illustrated Catalogue. In it
you will find instructions how to fix and decorate the WUNDERLICH METAL CEILING MATERIALS in your home
Registered
A
Trade Mark
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Head Office: Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney.
SYDNEY
56 Pitt St
MELBOURNE
243 Collins St.
ADELAIDE
119 Currie St.
PERTH
Lord St.
BRISBANE
365 Queen St.
Hobart and Launceston (Tasmania), and at Wellington (N.Z.).
Perfection in Suits
at Popular Prices.
kfe you anxious to LOOK SMART, UP-TO-
DATE and EXCLUSIVELY STYLISH ?
if m m, Let us make the suit
That will make you look so.
You may rely upon our Made-to-.Me*&We ‘Sorts. 4k
being the best possible productions iji Vnodem, rigbt-
to-tlie-minute Tailoring. NbthiiWg iWPeWWr vViTI b'e
offered to you.
Our Tailors are igi'eiA and skill,
while our CuUnrs are reWOtvn'ed f6r their expertness
and the tnagnteoetit iit they impart to every suit.
WRITE PGR SAMPLES.
We tvrli gtarYl'y send you patterns FREE —patterns
of the dhoiekst and most up-to-date materials; also
Self-Wieiisurement Forms.
Seasonable Suits at Reasonable Prices.
Carriage Paid to the Country on Every Suit.
Suits Expertly Made
to Measure from
£.3/3/-
We have made Thousands of Stylish-looking Men
LET US MAKE YOU ONE I
df
We Can Suit
You to a
Nicety,
Marcus Clark U Co. Limited
Sydney's Tailors*
Central Square, opp. Central Kailway Station, Sydney
The Unvarying Charm of
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
has won the steadfast adherence of the Con-
noisseur. They are absolutely uniform in
flavor, delicacy and subtle attractiveness.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN and VIRGINIAN,
Many grades—neatly and cleanly packed.
Your Tobacconist stocks them.
Da!gety & Co. Ltd.
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
Men of every rank smoke
ABDULLAS!
‘j
-I u
m
ofj*
lilllfß
HALLEY Motor Lorries
ARE EASY TO CONTROL.
The “Halley” is cheaper to run per mile than horse-teams. And when it is
not working it costs no money, and needs the slightest amount of looking alter.
And, being from three to four times as fast, it brings the markets nearer. lne
roughest roads and most hilly country offer no impediment to the Halley’s P^°S res ®‘
It is constructed by a specialist in industrial motors, to withstand the hardest
conditions and severest usage.
The “Halley” is simple in constructions The majority of “Halleys ’ in use
are being controlled by former drivers of horse teams. This fact makes it par-
ticularly valuable to dwellers remote from mechanical assistance.
The Special Award and Gold and Silver Medals of the Royal Automobile
Club, for Simplicity, Accessibility and Rreedom from Breakdown have been
awarded the “Halley.”
ANY TYPE OF BODY FITTED.
Xo Carry from 15c wt. to 6 tons.
DALGETY CO. LTD.
Motor Garage: 136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. S3.—No. 1697.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 22. 1912.
Pitrou fin.
A CLASSICAL CHIDLEY.
By a moderate effort of imagination our artist has here conjured up the image of a frock=coated Chidley, appearing in the streets
of Ancient Rome, say, about the time of the emperor Nero, to the coosteroation of the local Auguro. Apothecaries, Lictor, et al.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod. of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South W ales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . • • • • *1 6 0
Half-yearly .. •• •• 930 6
Quarterly .. • • • • 0 i 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertiscments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor trill carefully read arid, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence" col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns vn
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clivpings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. Tins Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction —be., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. West Australia, Queensland.
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Lvdgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Cn., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A.—Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Neivs Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt.- —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port
Said. rr
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Ilong
Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. Punehiappuhamy.
Ac/ents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
G§in. x 14in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Neivspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ifowe Islands, 10n Z . Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and Bioz. to
Iooz.\ 2fd.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 40z., id.,
and %d.~ each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 22, 1912.
PARTY POLITICS AND PUBLIC
SUICIDE.
There is abundant reason to fear tliat the
curse of Party Government —which in this
instance is closely allied with State Frights
—has got the Territory dowrn and sat on it.
That unfortunate place has had no great
luck since it was taken over by the Common-
wealth. It gets officials hy the nushel —
well-paid officials from the South, many of
whom have a scanty knowledge of tropical
problems. It gets regulations by the load,
and, in some cases, they are complicated and
Labyrinthine regulations, and almost past
comprehension. It is flooded with good
advice and platitudes. But it can t get its
railway—the one thing it wants to remedy
its isolation ; and isolation is the only thing
that is seriously wrong, or has ever been
serrously wrong, with this section of the
North. The tremendous voyage round Cape
York, and through the dangerous Torres
Straits, and across the wide-spread Gulf of
Carpentaria has always made the approach
by sea from Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney
too long, dreary and unprofitable for active
business. Certainly the isolation is remedy-
ing itself, very gradually, as population and
railways crawl up the Queensland coast, and
there are more white people in the North
now than there ever were before. But the
process is too slow for safety, and the
Queensland railways are too coastal and
scrappy for defence purposes, and are not
even well devised for any save local business
purposes: The railway up the centre of
Australia is the great essential. It will be
worth more than 2000 officials and a ship-
load of regulations. Unhappily, the curse
of Party Government is in the road.
Probably no one knows better than
Andrew Fisiier and his colleagues that the
railway is the remedy for isolation. That
is shown by the haste with which they have
entered upon the construction of the steel
highway to Westralia. True, this choice of
a work to begin with is rather remarkable,
if the matter is looked at from a purely Aus-
tralian point of view. The line to the West
isn’t half as urgent for defence purposes as
that to the North, for Perth is. several thou-
sand miles further from the point of obvious
danger. The Government wasn’t bound by
a written agreement to build the western
line, and it is pledged up to the hilt to build
the northern one. The western road is a
mere sort of coastal affair at best, and
doesn’t open up the neglected inlands of
Australia as the other would do. It isn t
required to develop a huge area of Federal
land, or to complete, and thus make payable,
two unfinished Federal railways, which must
be a dead loss to the country until they are
completed; while the northern way is re-
quired for both these purposes. The western
road makes unearned increment chiefly for
the States, with Federal money. The north-
ern one, if it is carried through the Terri-
tory itself, and not round in a long circuit
through Queensland and N.S.W., will make
unearned increment for the Commonwealth,
with Federal money. The Port Augusta-
Kalgoorlie affair is a connection with a min-
eral field which has seen its best days, and
is going fast on the down-grade. The Port
Augusta-Port Darwin one will open up
almost virgin country, be the same good, bad
or indifferent, and it is suspected of being
good. It was perfectly competent for the
two States interested to build the western
line themselves, seeing that it is to run
through purely State territory. The north-
ern railway can only be built by the Com-
monwealth, for it owns the country, and is
the only authority thereabouts. Also, the
unfortunate isolation of Ivalgoorlie and the
adjacent goldfields could be alleviated a
little, just to go on with, by the construction
of a short State railway to Esperance Bay,
it being, in some measure, an artificial lone-
someness or remoteness, carefully . planted
and watered and cultivated in the circuitous
interests of Perth. In the case of Port Dar-
win no such temporary alleviation is possi-
ble.
* * * *
None of these considerations is advanced
as a reason why the western semi-coastal
transcontinental shouldn’t be built. The
need for it is as obvious as the sunrise. But
it seems equally obvious that the two works
should have been undertaken simultaneously,
if possible; and if that were not possible,
that the northern one —the real transconti-
nental —should have had the first chance. The
interests of Australia all point that way.
Unfortunately, the small, narrow interests of
party point the other way. There is no
battle of alternative routes as regards the
western undertaking, and to build it along
this direction doesn’t mean losing the votes
of those who wanted it to go in that direc-
tion. It is calculated to buy, with public
money, many votes for the party which
supplies it, and to lose few or none. But as
regards the real transcontinental, it is im-
possible to keep the solemn bargain made,
with South Australia without infuriating a
very large section in the East, which wants
the bargain broken and the line deviated in
its own purely State interests. The easiest
way out of the difficulty from a purely party
standpoint is to postpone the greatest and
most urgent work in Australia, and to hang
up the question of national development, of
national safety—it may be even of national
existence —as long as possible, in order to
delay to the last possible moment the assured
party row, and the possible party split. The
case is one in which it is pleasant to leave
the job to the other fellow, and let him face
the row and the split. An elected Ministry,
with a fixed tenure of office—a . Ministry
anpointed by the vote of the majority of the
House —might face the situation, trusting
for re-election to the belief that a majority
of the whole non-party Assembly was with
it. A party Ministry can’t do that. The
Opposition is bound to vote against it
whether it really approves of its measures
or not. So if, by one action or another, it
forfeits the support of a number of its own
crowd, it is Lost. The fact, that the same
action wins it the cordial admiration of many
of the other crowd won’t save it. It is their
duty to expel the Cabinet right or wrong,
and get at the loaves and fishes. What
shall it profit an office holder if he save the
country and lose the vote of the member for
Horse Leech? In a close division, plainly
nothing.
Party Government, in fact, though out-
wardlv a little more respectable than it was
when first invented, is, as it has always been,
corrupt, disgraceful and unpatriotic.. It has
improved in degree, or public opinion has
forced it to conceal its worst characteristics,
and to wear its cloak of hypocrisy higher up
about its ears, but the thing itself is
beyond repair. It is still a method by which
the country is sold for the benefit of political
factions, though the sale isn’t done quite so
openly as it used to be. Party Government,
as we understand it, developed slowly
from the time of William 111., when it
began to take shape, to that of Geo. 111.,
when it may be said to have become com-
plete. It is no hoary institution, with the
moss of ages upon it. Its foundations were
laid about 200 years ago, when Ministers
were first chosen, on the advice ot
t-he worst political scoundrel in Eng-
land. from the crowd which com-
manded a majority in the Commons. British
Parliamentarians entered into the new game
with zest, and played it as it would natur-
ally be played in a rude and hard-drinking
age. If a Tory Government was conducting
a war, it wasn’t beneath the dignity of Whig
politicians —even men of the status of Fox
or Chatham —to supply information to the
enemy, it being better for the war to end in
disaster than for the other set to get credit
for its success. If a Whig general clamored
for a Tory general to come to his assistance
at a military crisis (most generals were poli-
ticians then, and many had seats in Parlia-
ment). the latter was very ant to turn up
too late. If the Sovereign forced the Gov-
eminent to employ a commander oi
the opposite persuasion, that commander
commonly received few reinforcements,
rotten provisions and scanty ammuni-
tion. Or sometimes it was the com-
mander who turned dog on the Government.
Howe, in the American War of Independ-
ence, didn’t belong to the gang in office. The
only feasible-looking explanation of that very
capable man’s proceedings—for he had
Washington and his tattered army hemmed
in over and over again, and deliberately let
them go—is that it was his first business to
show that Tory mismanagement made suc-
cess impossible, and to postpone victory till
his own crowd was in office to reap the
glory. Anyhow, he probably considered that
it wasn’t worth while trying v to reap glory
himself in the circumstances. If he had
ended the war he would very likely have
been sacked, as soon as he was no longer
wanted, like Marlborough, and many an-
other. He was a product of the age and the
system, like most of his contemporaries.
But for the fact that the party device wes
played in England during 30 years or so, for
all it was worth —played as such a system
was obviously meant to be played—the loss
of Britain’s American colonies would always
be a mystery. Nearly half the colonial popu-
lation adhered to the old order of things.
Congress supplied nothing for the mainten-
ance of the rebellion, save depreciated paper
money, and eloquent whoops, and contradic-
tory orders; and, when affairs became really
bad, so many members hid themselves from
the wrath to come that even a quorum
couldn’t be found, and there was no Con-
gress. The militia came and went as it
pleased—more often it went, and it went
fast, and it stayed awav long. Its component
parts were good sharpshooters, and in the
matter of plundering and torturing “Loyal-
ists,” many of them could give the Inquisi-
tion a good run for its money, but they were
not the kind of troops who would stay and
look an enemy in the face. The so-called
Continental regulars were few and ragged
and ill-supplied. For a considerable time,
in fact, there were no regulars at all. and
when there were some they often suffered
from the same pedestrian complaint as the
militia. Like Asa, they were troubled in the
feet. Among the commanders, Washington
was a man of unstained honor and unlimited
courage, but he was no great military genius.
In fact, his blunders were often magnificent.
Greene, Wayne and a few other leaders
ranked very high. But the list of incapables,
including such men as Lee, and fat Arte-
mus Ward, and Gates, who habitually led
his army from behind, was long, and the list
of suspected traitors was not short. Yet
this apparently incurable force was per-
mitted, it would seem, from party motives
alone, to spin out the war until France and
Spain were encouraged to take a hand, and
put an entirely new complexion on affairs.
It was the War of Dry-rot on each side. In
fact, so dry-rotted were things that, even
when the States were offered their independ-
ence, it was hard to get a auorum of Con-
gress together to take delivery of the goods.
Yet a Legislature of that sort could score
a victory.
The game of Party Government was never
played quite so brazenly in Britain again, nor
is it played so brazenly in Australia now.
But it is essentially the same game.. It
always was the same game. Also, there is no
reason to suppose that it can ever be any other-
game. The fixed rule is that it is better to
damage the country—as covertly as possible
—than lose office, and that it is better to
injure and discredit the country than not get
office. The tale of each political gang is that
it alone can save the community, and
that the other gang is eminently cal-
culated to ruin the community. If the
other mob isn’t ruining the community fast
enough, there is always a temptation to give
the community a surreptitious lift on the
downward road, so that the prophecy concern-
ing the other mob may be verified, to its dis-
credit, and to the solid profit of this mob.
It is not impossible that the nefarious sys-
tem, with State Bights animosities to assist
it, may lose the North to Australia, just as
it lost the Thirteen Colonies to Britain. It
is perfectly obvious that the North wants
settlement and means of swift communica-
tion. to provide for its defence. It is
wholly possible that the time available for
the necessary work is running very short.
No one can prove that it is. but,. on the other
hand, no one can prove that it isn’t; and
the chance is so gigantic and so appalling
that only fools or traitors would leave it
unprovided for. Yet nothing is being done.
And when one considers the Australian Gov-
ernment’s capacity fo • doing things when it
feels that way. as evidenced by the energy
it shows re the Ivalgoorlie line, the only
possible inference is that the exigencies
of party have got in the road. It is hard to
see what else can have got in the r^nd.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Landlords’ Government.
The estimated size of the bill has been made
known, and it seems that the preliminary
iob or first instalment of Sydney’s tube
railways is to cost £7,000,000. It will, of
necessity, be a mere instalment, for the con-
tinued expansion of the city will make more
and more tube railways essential, but it is a
fairly large amount to begin with. Roughly
speaking, it represents £4 10s. for every
man, woman and child in the community,
which is a very respectable public debt m
itself, and a mighty load for a mere handful
of 1,600,000 people to carry. But then
Sydney is a record case of congestion, and
there is probably nothing else exactly like
it in the world. And congestion must be
paid for, even though there are very few'
people to pay for it. If N.S.W. wenfimn
the simple and logical principle of giving
all its good ports an equal chance m the
way of railway connections and the like,
and tried to direct trade in every case to its
nearest good outlet, the State would have a
number of medium-sized cities instead of
one monstrosity. Then by the time a real
demand for costly tube railways arose there
would probably be 25,000,000 people to pay
for them, instead of less than 2,000,000.
Supposing the Government started the de-
centralisation policy even at this late hour
—started it honestly and in real earnest,
and not as a sham and an advertising dodge
■ —-it might easily found two or three cities
with as good prospects as Sydney, and in-
stall the State as sole ground landlord
thereof for ever. Thereby it would create
immense public wealth out of nothing, and
incidentally live up to its professed belief
in public land ownership, instead of being
darkly suspected as a political fraud, jest,
renegade, backslider, turncoat, and agent of
Sydney landlordism. Furthermore, it would
add immensely to the value of great areas
of remote State lands that are now of very
little value, and thus again it would make
great public wealth out of nothing. This
method of decentralisation would save the
producer very large sums that are now
wasted on needless haulage. It would save
large amounts, for a time at least, in rail-
way duplication, in reconstruction of con-
gested Sydney wharves, in the con-
struction of new wharves where land .
is enormously dear, and in the building
of underground railway systems that are
absurdly Huge and expensive in proportion
to the number of people there are to pay for
them. When the new cities required tube
railways the State would, so far .as they
were concerned, be working for itself —not
for private landlords. All the efforts that'
are made to bloat the ridiculously over-
grown N.S.W. metropolis are efforts to
bloat the private landlord. All the public
money spent on the bloating operation is
money poured out to make unearned incre-
ment for the private landlord. The process
has already gone so far that the unimproved
value of Greater Sydney is more than twice
that of all the other 149 municipalities of
the State put together, and even that little
area called the City of Sydney exceeds in
unimproved value all the 149 municipalities
that are outside the metropolitan district.
The mere land on which Greater Sydney
stands is assessed as worth £43,776,000, and
is probably worth at least £50,000,000.
That is the value which has been created
out of one of the most barren sections of the
State, by the mere aggregation of people.
With a very little railway building, and a
mere shred of honest effort, it would be pos-
sible to make the beginnings of at least two
State-owned cities, the ground values of
which would also be worth, in no amazing
number of years, £50,000,000 apiece. It is
a fine large prospect to throw away, merely
in order to preserve the Tory tradition of
one overwhelming blot of people, and empti-
ness everywhere else. Yet the money which
might be made and isn’t represents a mere
fraction of the loss, for the upkeep of the
congestion tradition is an expensive business,
and runs into a heap of coin per annum.
Ever since the McGowen Government tried
to establish an income tax system under
which a resident or absentee landlord, with
£3OO a year in rents, was to pay nothing,
while a little Australian manufacturing
company earning the same amount paid £l7
10s. per annum; also, under which an Aus-
tralian manufacturing co. making £IOOO a
year (divided among, perhaps, 20 share-
holders), was to pay twice as much as the
.absentee landlord with £IOOO a year all to
himself —ever since that episode the
McGowen Ministry has been suspected of
being at heart a landlords’ Government.
Especially it has been suspected of being a
Sydney landlords’ Government. And no-
thing it has done since has mitigated the
suspicion.
♦-
The Beef Siege of London.
It might, perhaps, be better described as the
Beef Siege of England. The wheat, and butter
and cheese siege hasn’t begun yet, but the
Beef Siege is already on the way. Britain,
regarded as a favorable subject for the most
stupendous hold-up or bushranging act in
history, appeals to the great mercantile
lords of the twentieth century. It occupies
such a position as no other great civilised
community has occupied since the beginning
of written history. During the last century
or so its population has multiplied fourfold.
In other words, it has accumulated three
times as many people in about 110 years
as it did in all the previous millions of ages
from the great fish lizard until the latter part
of George 111. And it is a very long way,
from the great fish lizard until the tail end
of George 111. In addition to accumulat-
ing people, it has, to a great extent, aban-
doned the habit of agriculture, its Free-
traders having assured it that it is cheaper
to import food than to grow the article.
So, within about 80 years, the United King-
dom passed, in great haste, through three
phases. In that brief space of time it made
more commercial history than it ever did
before. The first stage was that in which it
could feed itself. Having emerged from
that long-established attitude, it entered
upon a period in which it depended more and
more on imported food. Yet, for a genera-
tion or two, it bought its food from thinly-
peopled, low-wage countries, which were
desperately poor, and had a vast surplus of
victuals to sell, and which regarded it as a
favor that Britain should take their victuals
even at very moderate prices. While this
arrangement lasted, the Manchester school’s
idea of neglected agriculture, low duties, or
no duties at all, and abundance of cheap food
imports, looked fairly good. Then, gradually,
the third stage developed. The supplying
countries grew richer and less desirous to
sell their surplus victuals to Bull, at any
price Bull cared to offer. They became
more populous, and wanted more of their
food supplies for themselves. Instead of
Bull doing them a favor by buying their
supplies, they began to be in the position of
doing a favor by supplying Bull. Thus a
time came when the famous roast beef of
old England, not to mention the roast mut-
ton, sheep’s head, sheep’s trotters, corned
beef, cow-heel, ox-cheek, sheep’s kidneys and
tripe, came almost exclusively from four
countries —the United States, Argentina.
Australia and Maoriland, the greatest of
these being Argentina. Just here it da\yned
on certain huge speculators of the U.S. that
the Beef Siege of London —in fact, of all
the United Kingdom—was a possibility, and
one -of the most profitable possibilities of all
the ages. It required no army, no fleet, no
fighting, no declaration of war. Britain, as
the country which had made, in the import-
ing interest, the biggest possible wreck of its
own food-supplying industry, could be quietly
“held up” by a commercial force thousands
of miles awav, and made to pay ransom.
The method was simple. First, a great com-
bination got control of the meat supplies of
the United States and acquired a lien
on Canada. Next, it reached out its
long, financial tentacles, and secured a hold
on the meat supplies of Argentina. Now


there is every reason to suppose that it aims
at a similar control in Australasia. Very
little is known of its proceedings as yet, but
it is certain that a large new meat enter-
prise is starting, and that the agents of
some new meat undertaking are pervading
the country and making contracts, at liberal
prices, for cattle and sheep supplies for years
ahead. If this new concern is not the
almighty U.S. Meat Trust in disguise, a great
many people would like to know what it is.
There is not much reason to fear that the
Trust, if it gets hold of Australasia, will put
up local prices in any outrageous fashion.
That would be issuing a challenee to the
local Governments to fall on it and squash it,
and there is nothing to be gained by being
fallen on and squashed. The Trust, if it is
a Trust, can make sufficient profit out of the
surplus available for export. If it controls
that, the Beef Siege of Britain will be practi-
cally complete, and Britain will have to pay
pretty well what the Trust pleases. Already
Bull is being chafed a rather precipitous
figure for the imported roast beef of old
England. When the wholesale prices
in London for July, 1912, are com-
pared with those for July, 1911, it is seen
that the figures have gone up, in a general
way, 25 per cent, inside 12 months. And
unless Bull gets back to the agricultural
life, and goes in for intense cultivation after
the Belgian fashion, there is no remedy.
Neither strikes nor revolutions can alter the
situation. The people who are putting up
Bull’s - meat prices are wholly outside the
Bull jurisdiction.
An Asset That Has Been Suffered to
Deteriorate.
Sydney treated itself to a Horse Fair, the
other day, and horsey men were horrified
and amazed at the awful quality of the ex-
hibits._ One of them wrote, in a disordered
condition, to the daily papers and clamored
for a general “doctoring” of mares and
stallions as a prophylactic against the equine
degeneration that was manifest on practi-
cally all sides. There are points about
the suggestion, drastic as it is. One of the
reasons why the States are fairly creeping
with spavined, cow-liocked, round-iegged and
otherwise disastrous weeds, is that anyone
is at liberty to keep an entire, however mis-
shapen and diseased the animal may be, and
hire him out to propagate others of his
calamitous type. Human nature, and more
especially human nature in the-backblocks, is
so constituted that where a fairly good sire
offers at a fee of 10 or five guineas, and an
immeasurably inferior one is forthcoming at
a large and fat-headed section
will always.be found ready to patronise the
cheaper article. And the more democratic
legislation impels the small cocky to oust the
big squatter—who. partly because he loved
a good horse, and partly because he could
afford one, mostly used to have a decent sire
about the premises—the more the dirt-cheap
scallion and the low-quality mare and their
deplorable stock will multiply. Already the
general utilitv horse—the animal on which
Australia will have to depend largely for
cavalry and transport purposes when the
foreign invader arrives—has almost become
extinct. (There were scores of alleged
•general utility steeds” at the late Horse
kair; the tragedy lay in the fact that hardly
a °.y them were generally useful.) As
fhis paper has been remarking persistently
tor the past five years, the first thing needed,
it Australia is to regain its old prestige as a
peerless breeding-ground for horses, is a radi-
cal change in the conduct of it- A., H. and P.
They need to be altered from the
cheap circuses, which they are now into
serious institutions of some national useful-
ness. Instead of allotting extravagant
awards to useless old trick jumpers, money
prizes, of value should be offered to sound up-
standing stallions of all classes. A number
of these might be certificated and subsidised
ny the Government on condition that thev
served mares in their districts at moderate
tees, Substantial prizes should be offered
tor good-class mares, and Government certifi-
to those which were adjudged
0 t *? e same. It should be an offence,
somewhere in the same class with food-adul-
teration, for any uncertificated sire to be
hired out for service. The S’African and
Russo-Jap wars deprived the Commonwealth
of myriads of horses of the stamp that this
country will require when its own time of
trouble arrives. It is certain that, in the
event of another war occurring in any of the
countries more or less adjacent to Australia,
the old process will be repeated—though in
a less degree, since the Commonwealth is con-
siderably shorter of desirable remounts than
it used to be, while most of the oversea
nations (notably Russia and Japan) have
gone in for Socialistic horse-breeding on a
vast scale, and are, consequently, growing
more and more independent of the outsider.
The 'above consideration apart, there is a
steady drain of the few good-class utility
animals which the country produces, to
India and “'the East” generally, also to
Africa. A sound move on the part of the
Government would be to dry up tliis stream
at its source by means of a stiff export duty.
Australia has about the best climate for
horse-breeding on earth ; and that conditions
in other respects are favorable is evidenced
by the fact that till recently the “Waler”
stood, in the eyes of the world, for all that
was meritorious in his line. The local cli-
mate and so on are unaltered, but the repu-
tation of the “Waler” has been blown upon
to the verge of ruin. It is up to the Com-
monwealth on national, no less than on busi-
ness, grounds to see that it is rehabilitated.
A Matter in Which Australia Resembles
Turkey.
An infuriated soldier supplies this yarn:—
The time seems about ripe—if, indeed, it is not
absolutely rotten—for someone to arise in Parlia-
ment, or elsewhere, and in clarion tones to demand
what it is that ails the Pay Department of the
Commonwealth Defence Forces. In the matters of
inattention to business, dilatoriness, and all-round
criminal slackness, it is about on a par with the
financial department of the Turkish army—a force
which would be incomparably more effective than
it is if its officers and men knew (say) to six
months or so, when they were to be paid for their
efforts. Here are a couple of examples of the brisk
and sprightly way in which the Australian Pay De-
partment attends to its job. Area-officer B found
himself called upon to parade his men for rifle
practice. He had no money in hand, and what with
hiring a marker and so on, this is an enterprise
which costs hard cash. He accordingly wrote to
headquarters, and clamored for the necessary funds.
His appeal was met with a frigid silence. He wrote
again, mentioning that if the money wasn’t forth-
coming the parade would have to be cancelled.
Heaps of silence. A last appeal was made, but it might
as well have been heaved at the speechless dead, so
the rifle-instfucjtion went by the board. As another in-
stance, Area-Officer C had to rent an office for the
purposes of his billet, job or occupation. He got
it cheap—the owners being poor people—op con-
dition the rent was paid weekly. Owing to the dila-
toriness of the Pay Department the rent never was
paid weekly, whereupon the owners of the room
made the tenancy a monthly one, and raised the
rent. Later, finding that there wasn’t money avail-
able to even enable them to be paid once a month,
they raised the rent some more. These two ex-
amples are typical of the sort of thing that is
occurring all over the Commonwealth. The in-
fluence of such happenings on the compulsory service
system is simply rotten. One grotesque effect of
them is that, instead of the Pay Department being
made subservient to the training of Australia’s future
defenders, the training is actually made subservient
to the Department. Can anything more bizarre be
imagined in an intelligent modern State, which is
not yet insolvent, than that embryo soldiers should
have to forego the most important part of their
training because the cash wasn’t forthcoming to pay
for the expenses incidental thereto ? The weird casual-
ness of the authorities in money matters works for
evil in countless other ways. Nominally, each Area-
Officer is allowed £lO at the beginning of each
financial year, plus Is. for each trainee in his area.
In practice, the money rarely materialises on the
stipulated date. The Area-Officer has either to
neglect his duties, or pay a number of necessary
expenses out of his own pocket (a feat he is not
often in a position to perform), or run into debt.
Some results of running into debt, which is the course
the Area-Officer mostly takes, are that the tax-
payer has, in the end, to foot the increased bill;
that the trades-people, who are forced to wait for
their money, become disaffected and snarlful as re-
gards the citizen forces; and that the whole move-
ment tends to be brought into contempt. And there
isn’t even the justification of national indigence to
excuse the erring Department. The money is avail-
able to be handed out as it is required. The whole
answer to a most undesirable situation is deplorable
management at headquarters. It has caused the
efficiency of the training to be already badly im-
paired, and there are signs that worse is to come.
For example, practically every N. S. Wales area is
at present short of instructors. And no fresh ones
are offering. The men have become utterly exasper-
ated at the difficulty they have experienced in getting
their rightful financial dues, and they have not
been silent on the subject of their wrongs. Unless
the present “rot” is stopped, and the Pay Depart-
ment’s organisation is put on a business-like basis,
Chaos may be expected to supervene shortly. And
who wants Chaos in a National Army?
The 111-Devised Gas Bill.
There is one feature of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s Gas Bill that needs remodelling, and
it is such an obvious feature that it is sur-
prising that it should have been overlooked.
The general idea is to fix a standard rate
for gas and a standard dividend of 4 p.c.
This dividend is to be calculated on paid
capital, regardless of reserves, whether con-
stituted of premiums or otherwise. The
principle is utterly wrong. Reserves are as
much the property of the shareholders as
capital is. Some companies begin with a
small capital, and go on providing for ex-
tensions of business by contenting them-
selves for a long while with small dividends: *
in other words, they leave much of their pro-
fit in the business. This profit figures as re-
serves. Another company, in similar circum-
stances, may achieve the same result by pay-
ing large dividends and simultaneously call-
ing upon shareholders’to pay back some of
the money in the shape of increased capital.
Under . the Government’s Bill the share-
holder in the. former company will be penal-
ised Tie will get nothing on the capital
whmh he has left in the business. On the
other hand, the shareholders in the latter co.
Wlll be entitled to draw dividends on the
Profits which, in his case, have been formally
added to capital. Yet the second co.
have been quite as rapacious in
its dealings with the public as the first,
lhere is no earthly reason why the
distinction should be made. indeed,
it either shareholder is entitled to special
consideration it is the one who has strength-
ened his reserve rather than the one who has
bloated his capital. If gas must be provided
y private concerns, and if, consequently,
their dividends must be regulated, the right
L\ ns J° 1S to .calculate the distribution,
not. upon the capital formerly put into the
business, but upon the shareholders’ money
actually invested in it. This is esDeciallv
the case where reserves consist partly of
premiums. These amounts don’t even repre-
sent profits saved up —they are capital actu-
ally put up by shareholders, and put to re-
serves instead of to capital account, because
there was no prophet on the premises to tell
that the practice would one day prove dan-
gerous. If the Government doesn’t recon-
sider its position in this matter, it will find
itself in serious difficulties. What, for in-
stance, is it going to do about a company
which has transferred some of its reserves
to capital? There are several instances of
that sort in the State. How does the Gov-
ernment think that the transference of an
entry from one page of a book to another
should make all the difference between divi-
dend and no dividend? Still, this is merely
incidental to the big main question. The ex-
istence of solid reserves almost invariably
indicates prudent management; their absence
is frequently a result of improvidence, not
to say recklessness. The Bill as it is drawn
penalises the prudence, and pats the reckless-
ness approvingly on the head.
♦—
A sorrowful sort of business was the
application of the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council, that the cadets should not be trained
in their spare or loafing time, said training
being equal to an average of leather less than
li hours per week. This was the plea
advanced :
The lads were being trained to protect the pro-
perty and other interests of employers. Their leisure
time should not be invaded for this purpose. Another
suggestion was that any pay lost, if lads were
drilled in their working hours, should be made up
by the Defence Department. One of the speakers
did not see what was the use of stopping invasion
when the lads had nothing to defend from their own
point of view.
The young Australian soldier has his coun-
try to defend, and however meanly he may
think of it, no country pays better wages for
less work. Also, he has to defend the lives
and honor of his mother, his sisters, and the
girl who is going to be his wife. If he con-
siders them so utterly mean and foul and
degraded that their lives and honor are not
worth defending, then it is time somebody
felt sorry for him. The plea that there is
nothing to protect except property is the
worst kind of Fat Man’s doctrine. But even
on this purely sordid basis the Australian
worker has something to look after. He has,
on an average, more furniture, more clothes,
more money in the savings bank, a bigger
life assurance policy and better prospects
than any other toiler on earth, save, per-
haps (and only perhaps), the man of the
U.S. If lie herded five or six or seven in
one upstairs room in a dreadful tenement
house, like many toilers and moilers in the
East End of Glasgow in Freetrade Britain,
or if he lived in a cellar in London and was
found cooking a stolen dog for lunch, there
might be something in the plea that it is “no
use stopping invasion.” The cant saying
that the cadet is merely learning to protect
the employer’s property is based on a theory
that Australia is one of the countries where
a worker has no chance of ever acquiring
any property of his awn and becoming an
employer—where a boiler-maker can never
become Premier, or a miner become
a Minister. And the cant theory is
a ■ lie. Australia wants a lot of re-
pair and a lot of improvement, and its
liberties can only be maintained by ceaseless
vigilance, but it is a good country, and a
country worth fighting for. Only the people
who have never seen any other land assume
the pose of the broken martyr and the down-
slave, whose case is so bad that no
savage invader can make it worse.
♦
Melbourne Age lately considered the in-
ward and spiritual workings of the Brick
Combine, and the outward and visible re-
sults thereof, and as a result it proceeded
to investigate the Wonthaggi (Vic.) State
brickyard, its affairs, output, etc. So far, it
has learnt very little. At present, the
output is nil, the affairs are nil, the proceed-
ings are unknown, and the prospects don’t
seem worth alluding to. Premier Watt,
when approached, disclaimed all knowledge
of the matter, which appears unusual and
even irregular. Watt thought Public Works
might know something about it. Public W.
said it didn’t belong to his department; he
rather thought it concerned Mines. Mines
and Railways Minister Mcßride, who en-
gineered Wonthaggi, fancied he had some
recollection of a brickyard down that way
somewhere, but thought it had been handed
over to the Railways with the coal mine.
The investigator then abandoned Mcßride
in his Mines capacity, and, approaching him
in his Railways capacity, asked whether he
knew anything about the blessed industry.
Mcßride, as Railways, referred the in-
quirer to the Commissioners. These latter
said they took no present interest in Won-
thaggi bricks, the matter of the continuance
or otherwise of the yard being in the hands
of the Government. So the investigator
found himself where he started, or there-
abouts.
*
The complaint of “Jumbo” :
Whether the movement, on the part of W. L.
Duncan and others, to comped the McGowen Min-
istry and its Parliamentary -following to keep a
somewhat less devious line in politics, should prove
successful or not, it is tolerably certain that Labor
in New South Wales is going, to get a tremendous
shaking up before long. The borrowing proposals
of those who were chosen to represent a. non-borrow-
ing party are enough to damn them, if there were
no other sins to lay to their charge. Two years ago
Labor had a splendid chance in the State. Liberal-
ism, led by the weakest and most unattractive of
inept persons, had done its level best to disgust the
electors, and the way was open for serious reform
and straight administration. Holman and
McGowen have failed utterly to grasp that oppor-
tunity. They have shown all along the same vices
as those which disfigured the rule of their political
opponents, and such virtues as they possess are
forced upon them by the stronger men outside.
Holman, in his statement to the press on the crisis
which has arisen, sneers at those stronger and abler
men, as if he and his colleagues alone constituted
the heart of the Labor movement and his critics
were merely the disappointed and disgruntled small
fry who envied the men in power their lucrative
billets. The sneers are wasted upon those who
understand, the situation. The men outside are
bigger and more worthy of confidence. Holman is
undoubtedly clever, with a kind , of flashy brilliancy
which goes down remarkably well with a certain
kind of Labor supporter, but. judged as a leader
and administrator, he has little to boast of. Even
Wade and the unspeakable persons who league with
him to upset the sleepy McGowen and his shifty
lieutenant can sometimes score a point in the game;
and the person against whom Wade can score
must be a pretty < poor player. What won-
der that Lhbor men with a touch of sincerity in
their make-up feel the situation . keenly ? Duncan’s
attempt to. whip the leaders into line with the
wishes of those who elected them may result in a
party split. If the split is to come, the sooner it
makes its appearance the better. Nothing can well-
be worse than the continuance in office of a mob
which wears the Labor name and betrays its best
principles. There is still hope for the party, but
the hope is not in the sneering smoothness of
Holman, nor in the bulky indolence of McGowen-.
The Massey Government, of Maoriland,
announces that a General Manager of Rail-
ways to succeed Ronayne is to be obtained
from England. It is the first clear indica-
tion of Tory leaning which the Reform
crowd has shown, and a pretty bad indica-
tion at that. Maoriland had plenty of ex-
perience of the imported man in the past,
and has had many good object lessons on
the continental side of the Tasman Sea.
But the raving insanity is still entertained
that a man who has learned his job, under
wholly foreign conditions, in a distant coun-
try, must be the one and only person capable
of successfully running a local concern in
the special and intricate knowledge of which
hundreds of men have spent the best part
of their lives. Every reason which can be
advanced for bringing a General Manager
of Railways from the Cold Country would
apply equally well in the case of the Pre-
miership itself. Why not get out a British
Parliamentarian to take on Massey's jobV
Look at the wide experience of men in the
House of Commons, who have spoken and
voted on vast issues affecting millions of
people! If importing experienced men is
worth while in one case it is equally good
in the other. Just as an English railway
man must in the nature of things know
more about the traffic from Timaru to
Christchurch than one trained on the spot,
so the member for East Mudshire or West
Muddleham must know a great deal more
about the Maoriland land system than a
mere person representing an Auckland con-
stituency. Why not go the whole hog?
4.
When the ordinary house-mother wanders
into a draper’s shop to buy half a dozen
yards of shirting or sh.eeting, she never asks
for five yards of sheeting and a yard of
pipe-clay. But, all the same, she gets it.
A few days ago, a letter was received at
Colac (Vic.) from an English clay expert,
which threw a flood of light on the clay
industry. A deposit of fine pipe-clay had
been found near Colac, and the finder had
sent a sample to England to test its value
for pottery-making. The reply was to the
effect that the clay was a high-class article,
much too good, in fact, for cups and saucers.
But it could be sold, to an unlimited ex-
tent, to shirting and calico makers, and to
paper manufacturers. The writer then went
on to give figures of the quantity of clay
already used in this way, and of the mass of
clay that was exported yearly to India and
Japan—to be used in the great calico indus-
try. “There is,” lie wrote, “a large and in-
creasing trade to be done.” The price of the
clay ranged from 265. to 28s. per ton, and,
judging from the figures given, the clothing
and paper manufacturers use it with no
sparing hand. As Australia imports much
shirting, calico and paper, the Common-
wealth must be buying huge quantities of
clay annually; in fact, the title of “fluff
merchant” as applied to Flinders-lane seems
rather out of place; it should apparently be
“mud merchant.”
4.
The new Reform Party of Maoriland, which
is the remote descendant of the ancient Tory
combination, is thinking hard about bring-
ing the long financial howl to a finish. The
matter will stand a lot of thinking about,
but the pledge to abstain ought to be signed
first and the thinking done afterwards. The
period of recovery is likely to be painful if
the peg is put in suddenly, but the tapering-
off process is dangerous. Maoriland has the
loan fever in its blood, and simply doesn’t
know what living on its own income means.
The reform job is one for a strong man,
and just at present there doesn’t appear to
be a political Sandow in the field. Among
the. Liberals there are a number of men who
aspire to leadership, but with the exception
of Laurenson they are a poor crowd.
louseph Ward is an extinct debt accumu-
lator. Mackenzie —indeed the whole tribe
of the Mackenzie—Russell, Ell and the
rest are excellent persons, admirably fitted
to sit on road boards and borough coun-
cils, but not up to standard as political
leaders. Thanks to the reckless game which
has now been played up to the limit, it will
take a man of tremendous force, integrity,
persistence and financial skill to get tlie
country out of the hole. A weak Ministry
simply must borrow to keep alive. The ex-
tent of its borrowing will be the exact mea-
sure of its incapacity. It seems about time
that the electors took the matter in their
own hands and made every candidate swear
by the mud baths of Rotorua and the glory
of the largest wooden building in the world,
that he would rather cut off his whisky than
be a party to another loan for anything but
redemption purposes.
A tale from Papua:—
Rubber, copra, gold and (soon) kerosene are
the chief productions of Papua to-day. A very few years
ago, the only industry of the country worth mention
was the manufacture of rows, personal and political.
But “old dai r s” drop behind swiftly, in a country’s
early stages, and the old regime is as dead as De
Quiros. Year by year the malcontent officials, who
were more or less gently given the order of the
sack by the Commission, die out, or go away, or
“go native” —and, consequently, go under. Almost
the only survival of this extinct epoch is to be
found in the local newsoaper, founded in recent
years, and said to be owned by one of the men whose
fall was loudest and most resounding, from the
comfortable seats of governmental position into the
cold outer world, six long years ago. In Papua an
ex-official, hovering like a substantial Peri at the
gates of Paradise, always hopes, by the help of the
local weekly Thunderer, and a kindly Providence,
who lets not a centipede fall to the ground, to get
back once more into office. Into the team above
suggested, the Hon. Miles Staniforth Smith is
also yoked, the last hope of the vanishing party
being fixed upon him. If Judge Murray would only
die, or commit murder, or barratry, or piracy on thq,
high seas, or if he would get tired of the whole
show, stamp his flannel shirts and puttees firmly into
his swag with his No. 18 boot, and start “waltzing
Matunga” back to Sydney, it would be better. The
understudy would have the part of the star actor, and
he might perhaps give his friends positions in the
chorus. But the star actor, with a want of feeling
that is truly disgusting, refuses to die, or qualify
for Darlinghurst Gaol, or do ani r other little obliging
thing that gentlemanly feeling would naturally sug-
gest, under the circumstances. So all that the rem-
nant can do is to shed tears in print, and ask the
Federal Government, which threw them out some
time ago, to take them back and give them front
seats to the circus.
The bitterness of a discharged servant is, of
course, proverbial, and the discontent of the “outs”
with the “ins” is equally well known. These old
sorenesses, however, would have simmered down' to
nothing long ago had they not been artificially kept
up by the idea that, somehow, somewhen, it would
be possible for the small minority to oust Judge
Murray, and put the hope of the Lost Legion in his
place. Five years was fixed as the period of possible
A Lay of Fiscal Sinking.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There will be no tariff reform this session, and
members will go to their constituencies with the
fiscal issue an open question, pledged to New Pro-
tection, but otherwise free to take an independent
stand on the tariff. —Daily paper.
The tariff question shall not rise,
Although it is not slain,
At present in our thoughtful eyes
To waken it were vain ;
The matter sleeps; we shall apprise
You when it stirs again.
Our courage cannot be denied,
We battle for the right,
We stand in independent pride
To make a stirring fight,
Shoulder to shoulder on the side
Of darkness mixed with light.
We face whatever fortune brings,
Our souls are high and free
From any large imaginings
That break our unity,
We always trv to find out things
On which we can agree.
Australia clearly needs to build
A tariff barrier stout,
Lest infant industries be killed
By shoddy from without;
Her dreams are only half-fulfilled,
We have no cause to doubt.
But such a simple thing can wait.
What need for reckless haste?
For some time, either soon or late,
The problem may be faced,
And our opinions, we may state,
Will never go to waste.
Australian industries may thrive.
Beyond all doubt or fear;
The fiscal question is alive,
Reforms may yet appear,
If as a party we survive
From pleasant year to year.
Just now the question must not rise,
For, if the truth be told,
Although we walk with open eyes
And strong opinions hold,
For large reforming enterprise
Our feet are somewhat cold.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . . .
"MACKIE'S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
*
>r
19,322 Miles of Moving Pictures—
a very conservative estimate of the amount of film used
in our theatres this year. Millions of Pounds were
expended in its production.
Millions of people made happier and wiser.
It has been necessary to build six large theatres in three
years-* —to accommodate our rapidly-growing audiences.
Visit our Theatres—then you’ll understand why.
Crystal Palace,
Colonial Theatre No. 1,
Colonial Theatre No. 2,
Britannia, Melba, Lyric,
fg
df
Luxurious homes of modern entertainment.
hope, because, in the Northern Territory, that lias
been the limit of office. But it is not the limit m
Papua. Judge Murray", apparently, can stay as long
as" Judge Murray pleases, in the country that he has
made out of a handful of mud. The wilder inembers
of the Lost Legion have told the Federal Govern-
ment that he is a liar and a thief, and one or two
other pretty things of the same kind. The federal
Government told them to go away and play. 1 hese
Lost Legioners have worked night and day for several
years, to try and get their man in anyhow, so that
they might also climb back into the happy haven
of office. Their man is a good deal farther off
getting in than he was. It is really up to someone to
tell them to go home and have a nice quiet game
with their own little box of bricks and toy farm, on
their own little verandah. Papua is tired of them, and,
with the new oil fields coming on, and the old
copper fields coming up, and tobacco likely to boom,
and trade on the increase all round, it has some-
thing else to think of than old fireside squabbles of
the nineteenth century or thereabouts.
Bananaland’s latest Railway Bill is de-
signed to shake together, into one more or
less coherent mass, various ageing and frag-
mentary legislation which never got enough
exercise to keep it in a state of health. Some
Acts were passed merely to boost mining
shows, and tvlien the bluff didn’t work they
became a mere drunk and disorderly
person wandering over the pages of the
Statute Book with his hands deep in his
empty pockets. Among the bunches of
measures to be pitched on the scrap heap is
the famous “Band Subsidy Act” of ’92, the
work of a Boodlewraith person who has
long since secured a crown of forgetfulness
and forgottenness. The Bill was a cheerful
CHOKE DRAMA AT SYDNEY ADELPHI.
1st Choke: “ Speak , villain , or I’ll
strangle you."
2nd Choke: “The wretch whom I hold by
the throat .”
3rd Choke: “ I’ll throttle you First."
4th Choke: The hero (disguised) and the
comic man.
device for building railways by a system of
land grants. Private cos. were to be given
the choice land along the route in return for
nailing down some rails as a permanent fea-
ture of the landscape. The thing never got
into its working clothes, but it ought to be
passed out, for a thing like that on the pre-
mises is as dangerous as a tiger asleep
under the washstand. You never know when
some person with an edge on the domestic
cat will poke it out with an umbrella on a
dark night. According to the new measure,
a Commissioner gets his job for seven years,
and not for the unexpired time of a prede-
cessor who may have flitted past the dead
end of things. Also, the Government binds
itself to not more than £5OO cash damages
for any bush flare caused by engine sparks,
and the Commissioner will have power to
“prescribe certain precautions” which must
be taken by landowners against engine-lit
fires. The hope of a cheap cash bonus for
a burn seems as widely removed from the
region of hope as Slieol from a collection-
plate.
♦
“Costs” is getting a bit out of Walter
Hall’s estate already. One silk gown and
six stuff gowns, with two firms of big solici-
tors, assembled one day last week to ask
Justice Rich, of N.S.W., a few questions as
to the meaning of the will in parts relating
to a £20,000 bequest for charity. The trustees
wanted to know if the amount must be spent
in Sydney, and the Justice says it must.
And it took seven barristers and two firms
of attorneys to get an answer. A layman,
in his blindness, would imagine that a junior
could have got it for 21s.
“Paper Money” writes :
Melbourne has just had its fifth Quaker wedding
in 40 years. It was as quiet as the fall of a leaf,
and it took place in the Friends’ Meeting House in
Russell-street, a retiring brick-and-plaster building,
where people said “Thou” and “Thee” in a subdued
whisper, even when the relief of Mafeking had sent
the city off what it calls its “dipper.” The groom
and bride were Mr. Robert Andrew Mather and Miss
Ruth Hannah Howie. The Quaker girl went one
better than her namesake at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
and instead of wearing a demure grey gown and a
Puritan bonnet, she appeared in full bridal array.
Pretty little bridesmaids in white matched her
blushes with the pink bouquets they carried. And
oh, friends—what dost thee think? She drove up to
the meeting house in a taxi-cab ! Verilv, dost thee
not believe that Brother Bantock hath lived in
vain ?
This paper recently told how, behind an
Adelaide bar. Camille threw a bottle and
tumblers at Emily, and, before another sort
of bar, got three months for it. She has
now thrown something more effective than a
bottle. The defence pleaded intolerable pro-
vocation, including the term “a gaol-
bird,” but Emily swore she never said that.
Several other people have now sworn that
she did ; and, protesting that she still “hon-
estly believed” she didn’t, she was handed a
sentence just twice as long as that of her
rival. The moral seems to be that a lady
should never swear, in the morning, to what
happened amid a drizzle of flying bottles
over night.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ You Never Can Tell.”
Criterion ‘Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Royal “Merry Wives of Windsor.”
Adelphi “The fiirl Without a Home.”
Palace “A Romance in Ireland.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess ...., West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Imperial Rink Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Mary Proctor.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s “ Brought to Ruin.”
Kings “The Girl Who Knew a Bit.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Glaciarium Ice Gliding.
Athenaeum Hall Alexander Watson.
Bijou “The Fighting Chance.”
Town Hall Madame Kirkby Lunn.
The Bulletin’s Impressionist writes
about Art: —
Blamire Young paints beauty—a beauty clad in
delicate grey, with a filmy cloud about her hair, and,
for a black note, her shoe. Not that this Melbourne
artist is a portrait painter. His chief nude (a fan-
tasy, entitled “Come Unto These Yellow Sands,”
and if he gives us the address of the nymph on the
left we will come) is spoilt bv the shortness of
the second nymph’s arm. But this is captious criti-
cism in return for the rich feast of beauty spread
in the drawing-room gallery of David Jones’s shop
in Sydney. Young’s landscapes and decorations may
be admired for many qualities, but there is one in-
gredient he has never left out of his palette, and
that is his sense of beauty. There are landscapes
as charming as the popular Hilder’s, but wrought
from a more matured art. There is extraordinary
delicacy of cloud effects, and of cities of pearl behind
Brangwynesque-massed decorative foreground shad-
ows—cities that seem to glow from within, and yet
resemble cities we know. There are impressions
quite Japanese—in one of which the artist laughs
at himself by simulating in the foliage of a pine
the usual decorative signature of the Japanese artist.
But Young does not draw Tasmanian scenery as
Japanese because he likes Japanese art, but because
the foliage of the West Tasmanian bush was Jap-
anese long before the Japanese learnt to do anything
but scratch. And, for a similar reason, no objection
can be taken to Blamire Young’s Whistlerian effects.
They are too delightful to be imitations. The artist
merely sees prosaic places, like Sydney and Mel-
bourne, as Whistler saw the mud and grime of the
Thames. Young’s use of the black note, in some of
his harbor fantasies in grey—he has found a thou-
sand tones in grey—is almost theatrically effective,
were it not so inevitably right. In quite another
mood—-apparently Blamire Young has 139 moods —
are his frankly decorative effects, in which detail is
happily sacrificed to patterned strength. And when
he forsakes his beloved greys he gives rich color
schemes, most fittingly seen in his Gordon Craig
stage groups, full of motion and splendor. Much of
the immediate appeal of this exhibition is doubtless
due to the artist’s novel and interesting technical
treatment of water-color. One suspects that to get
the surfaces he delights in he must have mixed his
pigments with other things besides water and brains.
The high level of the show is so uniform that it is
unnecessary to single out a single picture. Though
the names of other artists have necessarily been
mentioned, there is no hint of deliberative” imita-
tion ; the work is almost arrogantly individual. The
show remains open a mere week, but it is probable
that much of it will remain in Sydney residences
altogether.
>!= >K sts
The Customs officers at Sydney must have
been “boobs” to have let into Australia the
large consignment of American slang that
the Wallingford company had concealed
about their persons or hidden in the luggage
of Wallingford’s Jap. valet. The infection
has spread, and the Criterion audience has
“gone bug-house” over the new language. In
fact, Sydney theatre-goers may now be re-
garded as “suffering mackerel,” and that
part of it which is “some gal” has got the
infection most badly. The company ought
to have been quarantined for a month, and
inoculated with the language of the “push.”
The Adelphi villain does lead a dog’s life.
Last week he was dashed to the ground at
the end of each act by a powerful hero, and
this week he is choked five or six times
nightly by the same muscular genfi Where-
fore “The Girl Without a Home” will go
down to history as having the record crop
of chokes per square inch. Details are as
follows: —
Act 1, Choke I.—Hero enters and hears tail end
of uncomplimentary remark by villain re heroine’s
past. Half-chokes villain by way of warning, and
orders him to repeat remark. Doesn’t.
Act 1, Choke 2 (double-barrelled choke).- —Scene,
office. Enter villain, co-burglar and gir-rl's father.
Safe robbed; father drugged; villains withdraw.
Enter owner of safe. Father recovers and recognises
him as man who killed wife. Half-chokes him.
Villain finishes him. Blames hero, who strolls in.
Hero proceeds to choke villain, but police stop fight.
(Shorter to say “Cops stop scrap.”)
Act 2, Choke I.—Heroine’s blind sister sells
oranges. Sticks to oranges, and completely neglects
apples, pears, pine apples, passion fruit, turnips, car-
rots, potatoes, mangusteens, bread-fruit, bananas,
lemons, cauliflowers, gooseberries and cocoanuts.
Noble gent, gives her £2. Enter drunken female
(friend of villain). She steals money; half chokes
che-ild and gives back two farthings as part pay-
ment.
Act 3, Choke 1. —Outside pub. Villain threatens
to starve gir-rl unless she marries him. Father half-
chokes villain as hint. Hero, disguised as beggar,
overhears cause of disturbance, and stops fight in
third round.
Act 3, Choke 2 (another double-barrelled choke).
—Outside same pub. Villain drops heroine down
beer cellar. Hero drops in and helps her out side
beer cellar entrance. Enter villain and co-bad ’un ;
also coster, friend of hero. Hero half-chokes villain
and coster throttles partner. Great practical choke.
Last Act. —No choke, but villain falls off roof and
hero marries heroine, who is heiress to £lOO,OOO,
but didn’t know it. Villain did. Cause 6f all
trouble.
Hugh Buckler sustains the part of chief-
choker and hero (Harold Arnold) excel-
lently ; and Violet Paget, as Nell Maitland,
makes a charming much-kissed girl without
a roost. Charles Lawrence is very good, as
the oft-choked villain (Dudley Grey), -as
also are Wilton Welch as the Coster, and
Godfrey Cass as the villain’s right hand,
Kit Curley. The smaller items are held
over.
The old and crazy engine reeled on and
on across the illimitable bridge that
stretched away into the shoreless, star-
gemmed gulf of Night. The supporting pil-
lars, glimpsed through the iron-laced, twink-
ling floor of the shaking .highway, fell away
sheer into the blue-black depths and dwin-
dled into utter darkness. The coal-grimed
beard of the ancient engine-driver of the
Sun Express streamed back over his bowed
shoulders, and the ruddy furnace-light beat
savagely on a bald and egg-like crown
fringed with a few dusty wisps of hair. He
pointed a trembling finger at the decayed
fireman, feebly pushing coal into the loco-
motive’s fiery stomach, and cackled thinly to
the roaring accompaniment of the wheels.
“We’ve done 26,000,000 miles, as near as
may be, and we’ve only been travelling 50
years. He, he! There’s only about 67,000,000
miles to go, and we’ll be there in another
125 years. That’s travellin’, if yer like,
eh?” Mary Proctor, the clear-voiced, precise
and unassuming little lady, now lecturing on
astronomy at Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall, just
gives you the plain foundations for imagin-
ative flights of that sort in the course of her
plain language story of the heavens. Occa-
sionally she reels off a majestic bit of des-
cription, or glowingly quotes a few, clear-
cut lines of Tennyson ; she even indulges, at
intervals, in a carefully-conned humorous
story; but mostly she goes straight along
and avoids trimmings. She sees behind these
myriads of express worlds that keep passing
and repassing on the invisible tracks of
Space, some great and beneficefit traffic-
manager who has been at his business long
enough to do practically without collisions.
Her little lectures are just the thing for the
severely practical, the deeply religious and
the highly imaginative—also the young.
Maeterlinck’s elaborate fantasy came back
to Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday
night, and got a welcome from a fair assem-
blage of fully grown children. Two bad
boys of 40 or so, who sat behind the writer,
scoffed steadily right through the evening,
but stayed to the end, nevertheless. Thu
play may have gripped them more than they
cared to admit, or perhaps they were stern
economists who wanted to have their money’s
worth even if it hurt. Some of “The Blue
Bird” does hurt the casual, laughter-loving
playgoer—-the sort who has to scoff to keep
his spirits up. The veiled and silent figure
of Death which stands throughout a whole
scene, tensely gripping the great key of the
aviary, is worse than 10 winter days in a
cathedral, and an indefinite number of damp
funerals. The, red fire, mortally-wounded
soldier, and thrusting pikes of the War
Locker, in the Palace of Night, are also
gruesome—but in a tolerable, human way.
The staging and acting of the poem leave
practically no loophole for the depressed
critic in the draught, and he departs on tip-
toe, thanking Heaven that Maeterlinck didn’t
go Blue Birding a quarter of a century
earlier. The probabilities are that the
Future and the Past are gayer than he
imagines them. Anyhow, one world at a
time is enough—especially when one is at
the fruit-stealing age.
* $ * *
The Schenk Brothers, equilibrists, over
whom the managerial advertisement grows
positively maudlin, balanced for the first
time at the Tivoli last Saturday. They
appear to deserve the wildest things that
have been printed about them. The three
Sisters Sprightly supply about the bright-
est patch of the second part, which also con-
tains Rich and Rich, the Stavordale Quin-
tette, Fred Bluett and Jessie Stuart. To-
night (Thursday) the tuneful Alec Hurley
itud his gang of miniature navvies knock off
for good, and leave the breezy road-mending
job they have been singing around for some
weeks.
j-j s;c s’i
The National Amphitheatre is still being
shored up largely by the local chords, etc.,
of Carrie Moore. A serviceable newcomer
is Lalie Brooke, of the U.S.A., and such
hefty mainstays as Gus Harris and the
Three Bohemians help materially to sustain
the fortunes of the house.
“Molly Bawn,” the great Allen Doone pro-
duction, disappears from the Palace (Syd-
ney) on Friday night. The co., which
specialises in Hibernian plays, commences a
farewell week, on Saturday, with something
called “A Romance in Ireland.” They are
all romances in Ireland ; but it may be that
the last one is a perfect burst of romance, in
which the shamrock is served up roast, boiled
and fried.
** * *
The dictograph, as shown on a film at the
Colonial 1, is a truly wonderful machine.
With this simple contrivance, one can hear
his wife making love to the lodger in the
next room, or she can overhear her husband
carrying on with the cook at the other end
of the house. It embodies a host of possi-
bilities. In the picture, detectives utilise the
machine to overhear a Senator next door
selling his vote for 50,000 dollars, which Is
a mighty high price and more than the goods
are worth. Of course, the Senator’s game
is up.
;J: * t\‘
“The Merry Wives of Windsor” was re-
vived for a brief season at Sydney Royal
on Saturday night. The production is a
fine one, and provides a cheerful picture of
bourgeois life in England’s Golden Age-—a
full-blooded period, when a citizen was apt
to be laid up for six weeks or more as a
result of playing lead in a practical
joke. The Asche co. handles the low comedy
situations —-the duel between Evans and
Caius, the hiding of Falstaff in the buck-
basket, the escape of the Knight in disguise,
and so on —-with the tremendous speed and
snap that are displayed in a modern Yankee
farce, and the effect thereof is good. Oscar
Asche’s make-up as Falstaff is a work of art
in itself. He portrays the ancient as a com-
paratively-speaking, serious old ruffian,
with scant tendency to regard his infamies
in a spirit of cynically humorous detach-
ment. Miss Lily Brayton is arch and viva-
cious and altogether fascinating as Mistress
Ford. Amid a wealth of talent, Caleb Porter
(Dr. Caius), Herbert Grimwood (Ford) and
Miss Bessie Major (Mistress Quickly) stand
definitely out an inch or two.
“Our Selection” has run for three weeks
at Adelaide Royal, which is about a record
for any non-musical play. Bert Bailey is
sound as Dad ; he even scores a triumph, for
a comic actor, in being able to hold the
house in his rare moments of seriousness.
“THE BLUE BIRD.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The theatre doors the covers are
Of this great fairy tale;
Walk in and you shall travel far,
Unless your courage fail;
For it is deeper than the grave,
And wider than Life’s span;
If shallow, sunlit hours you crave,
Look not in there, young man!
Dear little man, with eyes so wide;
Dear little woman, too!
Although I seek on ev’ry side,
I see no sign of you!
The faint, fat sighs of Mister Bread
Provoke no laughter shrill;
So I assume you’re both in bed,
Afar from Gaffer Tyl.
Oh, the green horror of the trees!
The gnarled arms of the Oak
That stretch and clutch ! Grim visions these
For timid little folk !
But bottle up the draughty sigh
And watch the splendid stage,
For all the kids that I can spy
Are thirty years of age!
N.S.W.
FEEDING-BOTTLE.


STECK
qf
New Shipments of STECKS monthly in ™
Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut, Rosewood,
Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony, in Art Cases °
One of the World’s
Great P | ANO S.
STECK Pianos impress those who ex-
amine them with their superbly beautiful
quality. We are making instruments that
ate of such excellence as to astound those
who see them for the first time. The
STECK is an instrument that challenges
criticism in comparison with any other
Piano.
The STECK Piano is manufactured by
the Pianola Co., in the largest piano-pro-
ducing factories in the world, making last
year a little over 16,000 pianos.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 George Street,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
252 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
436=438 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
London. Paris, Berlin and New York. [26
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged,
’ Phone No. 23G General.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Duggan has a fat and easy part as the Irish-
man, and Fred McDonald merits a special
word as the cheerful, uncouth Dave. The
De Serris boom continues at the Tivoli:
vice-royalty has followed the example of roy-
alty in patronising the “halls.” Niagara and
Falls have come in, too. The King’s has a
very strong programme, and the pictures are
numerous and attractive, as usual.
There should be revelry by night at St.
Kilda (Vic.) during the approaching sum-
mer. J. D. Williams is to open with a
townful of attractions comprising almost
everything that the U.S. has thought of in
THE TRIALS OF A HEROINE, AS SEEN
IN “THE GIRL WHO KNEW A
BIT,” AT MELBOURNE KING'S.
(1) Tied up in a vault with a mad woman
who turns out to be her mother.
the way of amusement. The “Smart Set”
entertainers from Thames-Fog and adjacent
regions will set up in business on the Esplan-
ade, and will prod the welkin with melo-
dious sounds. There will be the usual Pier-
rots and jesters, and at least one shooting
gallery, one joy wheel, one fieure eight, and
two merry-go-rounds. Already the prospec-
tive clamor has set every dog fleeing towards
the sand dunes of Red Bluff.
Art note from “Jean Sibi”: —
During the last few days, some 75 pictures, by
Fred McCubbin and Louis, his son, have been lodged
for criticism at the Melbourne Athenaeum. Me, sen.,
is the more interesting and numerous exhibitor, but
his son makes an appeal of his own. He is immature
as yet, but has a French eye for color. In a spirit
of pious filial flattery he paints the opalescent clouds
of his parent, but with more discretion, inasmuch as
he insists less on the idea that Nature has plated the
entire empyrean with mother-of-pearl. These
capricious cloud effects are crowded into Louis’s
“Australian Uplands” and Fred’s “Hauling Timber”
and “Summer Evening,” the last subject including
some i nymphs, who have been dredged from an age
more undressed than our own. “Lost” is the name
of Frederick’s biggest work, and “lost” is the con-
dition of the critic who fails to understand why such
a stupendous canvas should tell such a paltry tale.
The artist is happier in “Silver and Grey” and
“Saplings and Wattle,” where the filtering iight in
heavy timber is stage-managed with good effect.
There is a certain indefiniteness about Frederick’s
portraits. For example, the extinguishing character-
istics of the child (No. 5) are its lack of drawing,
good color and human interest. Some of the other
portraits are fine and impressive as regards their
drapery and the idealistic treatment of the sitters’
heads and feet. This latter phase of McOubbin’s
work makes one think that Baconspeare was right
when he said: “There is a divinity that shapes our
ends.” Frederick seems to be that divinity.
* * * *
An instalment of the Mawson Antarctic
expedition romped into view at Melbourne
Olympia last week, and showered the screen
with penguins, seals and yards of icy deso-
lation. A film of Antibes and surrounding
regions flicked some warmer landscape into
sight. “Wanted a Baby,” a curious comedy of
an infant hunt, also made the thermometer
restless; but “Jack and Jingles” brought the
mercury down to ordinary winter level, so
to speak. The hero of this fabrication is an
untidy dog which rescues valuable paners
from an ash-tip, and brings a melancholy
tale to a happy (and also snappy) ending.
At the Princess’s, four nights of “Nobody’s
Daughter” will be followed this (Thursday)
evening by one reappearance of Titheradge,
as that Village Priest who is a venerable
exponent of the lie indirect, To-morrow the
season closes with a performance of “The
Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” and Melbourne will
be there in large numbers to give the Plim-
mer co. a send-off. On Saturday, another
period of Marlowdrama commences, under the
watchful eye of Willoughby. The thrill in
store is entitled “Brought to Ruin,” and is
roundly described as a manly play, written
by a woman, for fathers, mothers and daugh-
ters. Also, uncles, aunts and cousins are
included in the invitation.
This week’s newcomers, at the Opera
house, are the Rallis and Wilson Trio, com-
prising two acrobatic males of high class, and
a very pleasing singing lady, whose unseen
infant wails piteously whilst she is hanging
out the washing. The turn is unconventional
in two or three particulars. Nella Webb
holds her own on the bill, and La Freya is
still the unmoving figure in a row of magic
lantern shapes! that come and go. Also,
Mozetto is conjuring as before, but the
Paxtons and the Amaranths have somer-
saulted to another State.
*{» iJC SJC jji
In spite of her gruesome comic relief, “The
Girl Who Blew A Bit” is prospering at the
King’s. The acting is not nearly as fast and
furious as it should be, even in the mirthful
tragedy scenes, whilst the parts commonly
known as funny are as tedious as a tortoise
on its last legs. In fact, “The Girl Who
Flew A Bit” needs a careful shaking up, and
a warm bottle for her feet. Still, she pros-
pers. Sixteen tableaux and one good joke
are carrying her into a fourth week, appar-
ently. Poor old Mother is the sparkling jest.
She was incarcerated for 20 years in the
deepest dungeons of Battle Castle, and her
madness was a household word among the
cockroaches, but when the respectable mem-
bers of the ancient House of Manners re-
leased her from captivity, and brought her
to the surface, and combed her hair, she was
just the sweetest old pippin on the family
tree.
5jC v
The Kirkby Lunn concerts are not to even-
tuate hurriedly, at Melbourne Town Hall.
The first is dated for Saturday next (24th),
the second for the following YVednesday, and
the fifth comes more than a week later.
* =|: * *
The trouble with the Bijou, of late years,
has been to get Melbourne fully aware of its
existence as a pretty little theatre. There-
fore any manager who makes a desperate
attempt to attract attention to this long-
neglected playhouse is practically throwing
himself on the compassion of the press. He
starts without the prospect of a crowded
first-night audience. Conditions are unfav-
able, and the odds are against him, any-
how. William Cosgrove’s risk at the Bijou
is “The Fighting Chance,” a mostly sane
drama in a prologue and four acts. The
(2) Shipwrecked and adrift. Sailors, mad
with thirst, are about to kill her and drink
her blood.
prologue leaves a disreputable Boer on the
verge of shocking behavior to an inoffensive
damsel whoI—as 1 —as subsequently appears—fled
from his shanty in the middle of the night
and became the protegee of the comely
Mother Superior of a convent at Guelders-
dorp. When the war comes to that S’Afri-
can town a gentle British captain—described
as “the Hon. Lord Beauvayse”—forgets that
he has a wife in England, or somewhere,
and proposes to marry the mild heroine who
adores him in an unnoticeable manner. They
are the tamest pair of love-makers that ever
heaved a sigh. Meanwhile, the plump Dop
Doctor dotes upon the heroine, but is too
magnanimous to mention it. The Dop Doc.
was a drunkard of the deepest dye, but the
local colonel induced him to swear off for the
Hempire’s sake, and after one terrible night,
during which he drank nothing but water
neat, the stout patriot turns up in a new
sac suit —a teetptally different man.
* •* * *
Thenceforth the Dop medico stands, with
his-massive legs planted straddlewise in the
centre of the drajna, a model for middle-aged
champions of outraged virtue. He allows
the mild married Lord to die in the odor of
bachelorhood, raiher than give him away tq
the lady. Also, when the Boer of the highly
suggestive prologue is about to talk of what
happened seven years ago, the Doc. shoots
him fatally in the stummick. Finally, the
Doc. marrjes the young lady on the under-
standing that she regards him as a brother
only, and the fleshy sentimentalist is stated
to be “starving” for her endearments until,
at last, she learns that her deceased sweet-
heart was a “rotter.” After which, she for-
gives her husband all his goodness, and
offers him a chaste salute. John Cosgrove,
as the Dop Doctor, is a rather absurdly
rotund contrast to Miss Saislie, the slim and
feeble lady of limited stage experience who
plays the heroine. Norman Campbell gives
a loud and threatening performance of the
brutal Boer; the chaplain of the British
regiment ought to pray to this publication
for mercy; and the Hon. Lord, who shapes
promisingly, may be advised to borrow a
little of the Colonel’s ginger. The Majah,
on the other hand, has no ginger to spare.
Miss Fannie Pain, though still crude in her
acting, seems to be charged with the spirit of
comedy, whilst her colleague, Harry
McDona, is droll when he doesn’t clown.
Miss Ethel Chadwick is only a little too emo-
tional in tone to be an admirable Mother
Superior, and the drama, as a whole, does
credit to the Cosgrove who fixed it up.
TH * :,< :ji
“The Quaker Girl.” at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne), continues to fall an easy vic-
tim to the unaccountable young man from
America, and the Champagne Dance retains
its fizz.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Klaw, of the big Ameri-
ea n theatrical firm of
Klaw and Erlanger, has”
got this alarming narra-
tive off his chest: “Edi-
son is so far advanced
with developments in con-
nection with film pictures,
that before very long
every household will be
in possession of its own
instrument. Each week a
fresh set of films will be
delivered by the manufac-
turer, just as the circulat-
ing library now delivers
books.” What price shares
in the picture palaces
when Edison does this?
Lottie Dearn, the young and. quite unknown Syd-
ney pianiste, for whom a modest committee lately
engineered a concert, cash-boxed no less than £540
—-and it will probably be £6OO before the last coin
tinkles in. The amount will afford her two years
or so in Leipsie, and this music-loving country will
reap the artistic benefit. These are sunny times for
the young musician.
“Oldest Inhabitant”: Miss Marion Dunn, now
playing with the “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford”
company in Sydney, is a daughter of Marcus Clarke,
author of “His Natural Life” and other works.
Also, she is a grand-daughter of John *Dunn—“That
Rascal Jack”—a comedian who came to Australia
in the mid-’so’s from California with two daughters.
One of them (Rosa) had appeared in the. United
States. The other (Marion) > graduated and made
her first appearance in Melbourne. This lady mar-
ried Marcus Clarke. Rosa married C. L. Lewis, and
retired from the stage. Both sisters are now
widows. Marion Dunn is remarkably like grand-
father Dunn. In London he was known as “Jim
Crow” Dunn. An American named Rice introduced
a song and dance called “Jim Crow,” which Dunn
imitated and made famous.
“G.” : Gregan McMahon proposes to hold his sixth
Repertory season in Melbourne next month. His
star attraction will be Galsworthy’s “The Pigeon.’
Curious, Mac’s passion for the aviary. Last season
he let loose “The Seagull,” and later on he intends
to uncage Ibsen’s “Wild Duck.”
“Spasmode”: In the semi-theatrical divorce case
of Bond v. Bond (Melbourne), the Judge apparently
held that when a pro. gent writes to a married pro.
lady with “Love,” he only means “Luck.” Unfortu-
nately, the amateur husband doesn’t understand. When
Mr. Lavender allows his young spouse to take part in
amateur theatricals, he is astounded at the professional
stage manager addressing her with “My dear,”
“Now, my love,” “Be careful, sweetest.” In the play
of “Frou Frou,” a situation like this is introduced.
Charley Wyndham once said: “The leading man
hates the leading lady,” but Harry Neville said:
“Not so. He’s as much in love with her as she will
allow.” Devrient, as Romeo, was giving Mdlle.
Schroder, as Juliet, a bear-hug, and whispered, “Be
mine.” “Never!” she whispered fiercely. What a
lot of fair and unfair enemies Julius Superbus had.
Salvini, in his autobiography, declares that he was
deeply in love with Ristori throughout the years
they acted together, but she was bent on annexing
the Marquis Grillo. Helen Faueit writes in her auto-
biography: “It was hateful to act with Phelps. He
always kept backing to the rear, so that the audience
might see his face and only my profile.” A common
trick. Coleman says Phelps and Miss Glyn were at
it as usual, trying to rub their backs against the
scene-cloth behind. Helen Faueit wrote that Brooke
was a poor actor. Why ? Because his glorious rant
took all the wind out of her sails-in the plaudits.
Re the first appearance of John McCormack as
Pinkerton in “Madame Butterfly,” a London paper
remarks: “It was quite refreshing to hear the word
‘whisky’ pronounced with its native accent.”
Melbourne’s dodo councillors owe it to the clever
city organist, Dr. Price, that they should do
something to mitigate the horrors of their Town
Hall. Price is giving his Thursday recitals as of
yore, to audiences that shiver more than ever on
wintry nights. It was unrardonable in the City
1 athers to ignore the inter of concert managers
who pay a heavy rental for the hall, but it was pre-
posterously foolish of them to neglect the interests
of their own organ recital business.
“Aust’ : Jessie Stuart, the imported star who has
made good at the Tivoli, is acclaimed in the press
and elsewhere as a “London artiste.” She isn’t.
To my personal knowledge she was born in Waver-
ley, Sydney, a matter of 20-odd years ago.
“Tec.”: The “Dictionary of National Biography”
is m error with regard to George Coppin’s first wife.
It says she was Widow Bray, sister of Mrs. G. V.
Brooke, and that Coppin had two daughters by her,
while his second wife, Miss Hillsden, yielded two
sons and five daughters. It was Fred Coppin, the
musician, George’s brother, who married Mrs. Bray,
and her two daughters were Alice and Blanche Bray,
both known on the Melbourne stage. Mrs. Fred
Coppin, formerly Bray, will also be remembered by
many. George Coppin's first wife was Widow Ilills-
den. She had two sons—Frank and Charley Hills-
den. Frank, a compositor, married Alice Bray, who
had figured on the stage at the Melbourne Haymarket
as Celeste’s double, in the plays of “The House on
the Bridge of Notre Dame” and “Like and Unlike.”
A startling double, too, especially in the last scene of
“The House on the Bridge,” Celeste, as the gipsy
boy. Zambaro died officially on a bed. Almost in
the next moment she flashed upon the scene as an
utterly different character, the Chevalier. Blanche
Bray, Alice’s sister, was very tall, of striking figure,
and a popular toast. For a little time she served in
the Theatre Royal bar, under the management of
Architect Pitt’s father. Fred Coppin was always
orchestral leader when George was in power and the
bands were apt to be cheap and not nice.
England has encouraged alien immigration so
much that it is now found worth while to play
“Hamlet” in the East End of London—in Yiddish.
(Continued on page 32. J
“Harrison O.” discourses :
Every now and again one or other of the dailies
publishes an item concerning the dreadful prevalence
of the “tipping” system in ole Hingland, and mostly
ends up by observing- that the demoralising practice
is almost unknown here. Often, after reading some-
thing of this kind, I have been seized with a desire to
seek out the bloke who is of conscience demanded to
speak the truth, so that I might impugn him in a
vital spot. Anyway, the Melbourne newspapers that
have a habit of publishing this yarn, contradicted
themselves flatly the other day, by giving an account
in their news columns of a case in which the man-
ager of Menzies Hotel was rushed at by the authori-
ties for not paying a porter 40s. a week, as provided
by law. It turned out that the man had been in his
job three years, during which time he had not even
received a peppercorn as a matter of form, or cour-
tesy, or something. It was urged upon behalf of
Menzies, that J. Henderson, the bone of contention,
was not a porter within the meaning of the Act, but
a commissionaire. The wages’ award makes no men-
tion of a commissionaire. Of course, Henderson does
not assist in the scheme of exterior decoration at
Menzies out of pure altruism. He stated in evidence
that he makes, on an average, £2 10s. a week in
tips. He is not expected to do anything menial, in
the way of humping boxes or bags; he has merely
to stand outside and look beautiful, and form him-
self into a guard of honor when anybody arrives, or
stand around in a respectful semi-circle when any-
body departs. In his own words: “I show them in-
side, and somebody else takes them over.”
A commissionaire is one of the least de-
(3) She is landed on an island where some
long-stranded mariners rush her with their
cruel affections.
serving of tip pouchers and one of the least likely
to be tipped, for he renders no real service, being
merely an aesthetic accessory. In some respects he
resembles the head waiter at certain Fogtown hostels
of the “Old Cock” type. He who visits such “grills,”
hands a tip (mostly tuppence) to the cove who
attends to his wants at meal time, and pushes another
copper through the grill for the cook; but payment
for the meal must be handed to the head waiter,
who, of course, expects, and mostly receives, another
tuppence. He does nothing to earn the gratuity, any
more than does the decorative superfluity at Menzies.
Those who do give something in the way of service
are naturally more frequently the recipients of the
coin that cheers, even while it humiliates. The jobs
of head waiter or head porter at places such as
Menzies or the Australia are among the prizes of the
servitorial profession. Generally speaking, half a
dozen Hingiish servitors could be made happy and
humble for the amount required to purchase a single
casual nod of acknowledgment in these parts. If an
Australian treks Fogwards and visits a music-hall, he
will, when leaving, most probably be assisted on with
his overcoat by a military-looking specimen of mas-
culinity, standing six-feet-something-unusual in his
£2O uniform. The cove from these parts may feel
in his pocket for half a crown, but if he knows the
ropes he will feel for a penny. Tuppence would gain
for him a courtesy such as he has probably seen only
upon the stage, and a travbit would most probably
cause the gorgeously-clad giant to suggest that the
donor had made a mistake. One is expected to tender
a bob, or at the’ very least, a “zack,” to the person
who hinders you from getting into your overcoat at
a Melbourne theatre. Again, a bob handed to a
waiter at the best local restaurant will buy one
nothing but a gaze of cold disdain —-2s. being the
ruling rate. The places I have mentioned, where
tipping is, and always has been, rife, are frequented,
for the most part, by the wealthy lower orders, many
of whom would probably protest strongly against the
abolition of the system, which they regard as one of
the safeguards of their caste. But I know of a
couple of so-called Bohemian restaurants from which
it is impossible to escape until you have handed a
bob to the brigand who took your order. The disease,
too, is spreading, apparently because of the multi-
plicity, in eating houses and similar places, of im-
portations from the Cold Country. These persons
get into the habit of looking under the plate for
the pennies they have been accustomed to receive,
and for which they are truly humble. A week or
two ago a cove (obviously anew arrival), who sub-
edited my hair, presented the usual brass voucher
with one hand, and held out the other palm upwards.
I repeat, the disease is assuming alarming propor-
tions, and requires to be scotched ; for, verily, the
tip degrades both him who gives and him who
receives.
THE BLOOD-STAINED SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let me say that even the best picture shows make
too light of taking life. In nearly all the western
dramas, upon the slightest provocation, out comes a
“six-shooter,” and somebody drops. I challenge the
proprietors to disprove this. Surely this must have
a bad effect on the young. —Correspondent of Sydney
Sun.
A tide there is that must be ta’en
Upon its crimson flood —
The cin-e-inat-o-graphie pain
Allied to gurgling blood;
The flashing of revolvers, and
The dread assassins’ knives ;
The murd’rous plot, serenely plann’d ;
The lightly-taken lives.
Ho! let the whistling bullets spin
To bring delayed surcease
Of trouble to the hero in
These piping days of peace,
So that our fancies, custom-chained,
May each in freedom sweep
Through those wild years, still unregained,
When blood and wine were cheap.
It’s fine to lounge in velvet seats
With Popsy at our side,
And see just how the lion eats
Young Csesar’s weeping bride;
To glue our eyes on Prairie Bill,
What time his guns are banged,
And calmly chew our peanuts till
He’s picturesquely hanged.
To watch the Wrong Man fastened down
Before the speeding train ;
And, later on, to see him frown
At him who was his Cain.
To see him bound upon the moke,
That, bridleless and free,
Is captured by the Proper Bloke—
Who weds the Proper She.
For, after all, we have to fake
Life’s sweet romantic days
In these, our hours of tea and cake,
When no revolvers blaze.
So hail the curse the villain spat,
And let the warm blood flow —
No matter if it’s only at
The moving picture show!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


SMART BOX CALF BOOT.
PRICE - - 21/-
It is very neat in appearance—very easy to wear, and of
lasting quality. Considered in every detail, this boot repre-
sents absolutely the best .value offering at the price. The
+ ° X + a. ls . one J ,°f those flexible, pliable qualities—specially
treated to give the maximum amount of wear—and will not
crack when worn in wet weather. Indeed, you can depend upon
absolute protection.
It is a sensible sort of boot to choose, suitable for either
city or country wear, with heavy, welted soles, straight
toecaps and round toes. To be had in black-laced only,
in all sizes, priced at 21/-
fg
PRICE
21/-
We Guarantee Satisfaction,
or refund your money—and
we Pay Carriage on Boots
to any part of Australasia
or the Pacific Isles.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
- %
:: , ;
illiilliiii
Kugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free ' ample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
♦
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
ABDICATION.
Melbourne, Friday.— An endeavor is being made
to secure a bar license for a club known as the
“Quamby”—a ladies’ club.
MERE MAN (handing over jim-jam and latch-
key): “Here, take the whole bloomin’ lot.
I’m sick and tired of ’em.”
A recent divorce case in Paris ought to
make a good comedy—say, for the moving-
pictures. A divorced his wife. B, the co-
respondent, duly married her. Then she be-
gan to regret what she had lost —and pre-
sently B had to divorce her, with her own
old husband as co-re! The play could be
called what the lawyers in Paris called it,
“Battledore and Shuttlecock.”
The Poon Gooey scandal is quite shock-
ingly indecent in its latest development.
Minister Thomas is being worried to give
Poon Gooey a further six months’ extension
of his much-extended permit re his Chinese
wife “in view of her condition.” Consul-
General Yung Liang Hwang visited Geelong
last week in order to view Mrs. Poon
Gooey’s condition in her husband’s presence,
and the plea for another six months’ fooling
with the Law is the result of this visit. To
put the truth plainly but indelicately, Gooey
of Geelong has discovered an “interesting”
system of keeping a Chinese spouse unlaw-
fully in this country after she has been ad-
mitted for a short term. Instead of bring-
ing his wife, in the first instance, as a brand
new bride, he waited until she was in the
way to become a mother, and then, her
license to stay having expired, he pointed to
her condition as a cause for her being
allowed to remain. The bat>v arrived, and
Mrs. Poon Gooey got a further reprieve on
her first-born’s account. Then Poon Gooey
obtained another reprieve for the poor little
woman in order, seemingly, that he might
produce a new edition of the old difficulty.
For the second time the Law is asked to
pity Mrs. P. G.’s “condition”—a condition
that her artful, selfish, troublesome husband
ought not to have brought about. It is not
as a “respectable merchant” but as a suc-
cessful Chow father that Gooey is suing for
a special concession. And his system of in-
creasing the colored alien population of the
Commonwealth could be expanded indefi-
nitely.
* * * *
The tremendous artillery of the Law has
been brought to bear in Melbourne on a
case where a hotelkeeper refused accommo-
dation to a couple whom he wrongfully sup-
posed were —er —tejnporarily married. It
appeared that a highly respectable public ser-
vant, whose wife, returning from the coun-
try, had joined him late in the evening at
St. Kilda, desired to rest with her for the
night at that suburb’s toniest hotel. The
lady stayed with her luggage in the vesti-
bule while her legal owner sought the man-
ager. That official, having glanced at him,
privately opined he was giddy or something
similar, and curtly intimated that they
“didn’t do that sort of business there.”
Whereupon the would-be visitor “got the
needle,” removed himself, his wife and his
chattels from the purlieus of the establish-
ment, and presently invited the Law to
punish the licensee for breaching the Act.
After two tries the Law finally decided that
if the visitor had not been so huffy the
trouble wouldn’t have happened, and that
the licensee, though he had been needlessly
summary, had not wilfully endangered his
license by refusing bedroom space. All of
which shows that when a married couple
desires, hotel accommodation late at night it
is advisable to let the licensee inspect the
lady. Of course, even then he may resolve
that she is not quite proper; in winch case
she may become very angry, or she may not.
Some ladies would feel really happy if any-
one suspected them of giddiness.
* * * *
.The Law is a discerning beast, with a
nice perception of the relative values of pro-
perty and human life. The other day it was
told, at Eitzroy (Vic.) Petty Sessions, about
a confectioner who rents shops and sub-lets
them to tenants who agree to buy his con-
fectionery. One such sub-tenant further
sub-let four rooms to a Mrs. Sharpe, whose
rent, the Law was told, had been paid up to
July 8. At 5 p.m. on that date the tenant-
in-chief, whose sub-tenant had retired or re-
signed or vamoosed, called on sub-sub-tenant
Mrs. Sharpe, in company with a constable
and a bum-bailiff and incontinently heaved
her, her two young children and her goods
and chattels out into the rain and the right-
of-way at the rear. He didn’t even let them
finish the. evening meal, but forced them to
consume it while sprinting with the pots
and pans between the kitchen and the lane.
In fact, his consuming velocity was such
that lie forced a delicate married daughter
out iuto the moisture, with disastrous re-
sults to herself and her then unborn baby—
all .of which damage was due to the legal
action of a maddened and leaping confec-
tioner. Now the fool Law makes no pro-
sion for gaoling this person for his inhu-
manity. But, .as Mrs. Sharpe’s sewing
machine and pictures received sundry in-
juries, the Law charged the offender with
wilfully damaging 'property , and fined him
£5, with £2 damages and £2 ss. costs.
The middle-aged windjammer, G. W.
Wolff, which raced into Bass Strait before
a north-westerly gale, a fortnight ago, and
smashed into Hummock Island, carried a
middle-aged captain to his death, and a re-
markably middle-aged crew to a severe wet-
ting. The steward and the sailmaker, two
youths, of 17, were the only young men on
the ship. Of the other 20 members, 18 were
between 40 and 50 years old, and two just
over 50. The age of seven mariners was 48;
and two groups of three owned up to 47 and
49 respectively. Doubtful if Victoria has
ever before acquired such a uniformly
drenched and middle-aged set of seafaring
strangers in one swoop. It only happened,
of course, through the hard-driven Wolff
fleeing home to roost in the wrong place.
THE BABY BOH US.
MRS. SLINK (flourishing £5 note): “ Ho, Clarence Henry, yer don’t get a penny this
time, if I know it! Yer boozed the twins, but yer ain’t goin' to swailler Augustus!”
Adelaide has seen the last of an elderly
man who had no luck with tramcars. He
was an out-patient at the hospital as the
result of a tram accident. On his way for
his usual spell of treatment one day a car
struck him, and that made him an in-
patient. In course of time he recovered and
came out, and then another car smote him
good and hard. He is now an in-patient at
the cemetery. Ten to one his ghost is col-
liding on the golden streets.
THE THEATRICAL SPACE QUESTION.
LITTLE B LOGGS: “I’ll take a yard and a half
for the Missus and a foot for myself.”
'When the Australian XI was offered a
civic “reception” on visiting Glasgow, a
Bailie (or thereabouts) “took exception to
the proposal,” and “moved that the minute
be sent back for further consideration.”
Motion seconded. But on it being “ex-
plained that the reception proposed meant
only a cup of tea, the minutes were almost
unanimously adopted.” London Punch
calls this “the Glasgow touch,” and claims
that “any comment on it would spoil its
simple beauty.”
A few informative barks from “Briny”
Work is being' pushed on with the Naval Base at
Western Port (Vic.). The place is a tiny edition of
Hobson's Bay, from which it is separated by a
tongue of land. The buildings and drill-grounds will
be completed by July, in time for the men who will
come from England by the fleet. Admiral Henderson
recommended a personnel of 2000 at Western Port.
The work to be done by July is only one of the five
wings of the full buildings, and will accommodate
400. Equipment for torpedo instruction, and fur-
naces for training stokers. Also, lecture- and work-
rooms, stores and quarters. A parade ground is being
levelled. Wharves and jetties are limned out. Float-
ing docks planned for submarines. Much dredging
to be executed. There is railway communication
already to Stony Point, within a mile and a half,
which will, of course, be quickly linked up. The total
number of men in training for the national fleet is 400,
of whom 30 are in England, suitable for petty officers.
There are 100 cadets on the Encounter, and 100 more
at Williamstown depot, ready for that training ship.
More forward trained men are 60 Australians on each
of the destroyers, and a number on other fighting
ships, making a total of 20,0. The course of Western
Port training will be four months.
«■**'-.*
The story of the Melbourne girl who mas-
queraded as “Bill” Edwards, and subse-
quently resumed the garments of her sex as
Marion, is eclipsed by the narrative of Maria
Lovell, native of Wangaratta (Vic.). Maria
states that she started work as a cow-
milker and general farm-hand when she was
aged six, and at 12 she shone as a rider of
buckjumpers. At 15 she married, and at 16
she was a mother. Then she lost both her
baby and her husband. The one- died, and
the other deserted her in a live state. Where-
upon she left the district clothed in pants
and other male attire. She milked and
ploughed in Australia and Tasmania, and
then in Maoriland. A rover by persuasion,
she returned to Victoria, and was working
as a driver for a timber merchant in Mel-
bourne, when an indiscretion led to her sex
being discovered by the police. She stole a
ring from her sister-in-law’s house, and got
another lady friend to pawn it for her. The
beaks discharged her from custody on “first
offender” terms, and Maria went back to the
timber yard, where she is considered one of
the smartest and most industrious boys on
the paysheet. To newspaper interviewers
Maria states that she hates women’s work,
but “likes men’s work—and likes the pay.”
The ring incident suggests a kink in the
reasoning power of Maria, inasmuch as she
was courting trouble when she tried to make
a bit over and above her wages, but the
question whether girls who endeavor to
deceive their sex are more naturally dis-
honest than commonplace girls is still open
to discussion. Is Maria Lovell a quite
natural creature of circumstances that began
with her infant milking duties, or are all
girls that take to pants and prefer men’s
work to women’s labor necessarily abnor-
mal? Anyhow, it seems certain that Maria
will be fully entitled to the suffrage when she
is 21. She is now in her 20tli year, and
going strong.
THE RIVAL CHURCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The most foolish mistake of Australian Sabbatar-
ianism is in supposing that people can be made pious
by crippling their week-end liberties.
—Melbourne Age.
To-day the town’s enshrouded
In hoff Sabbath gloom;
The streets, last evening crowded,
Are silent as the tomb;
Soon, from each dismal steeple,
A bell, discordant, deep, ’ll
Disturb the sleepy people,
With loud, insistent boom.
Beyond the city’s portal
Lie fields and meadows green,
Where dwell the gods immortal.
A cloak of verdant sheen
The countryside does cover,
Black swallows sweep and hover,
Bird lover calls to lover,
Beneath a sky serene.
And in a splendid chorus
The blue, immortal sea.
An anthem, full sonorous,
Rolls forth, superbly free,
Which through the ages hoary
Has told Creation’s story,
With grand, harmonic glory—
This is the choir for me.
Seek Nature's tabernacle,
Its incense is the air ;
No pious preachers cackle,
No altar candles flare,
Save when, at even tender,
The stars shine forth in splendor;
With humble heart I render
My lowly homage there.
The drab and dreary preacher
Sits on his holy perch ;
My grand, eternal teacher,
He’d find did he but search,
But when the “thrums” are falling,
The sound of Nature calling
To Chadband is appalling—
He fears the Rival Church!
VICTORIA,
HARRISON OWEN.


Rich Womeiv need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’s ~
put
in
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes.
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the “ Pure Food Act. 1908,"
hy Lever Brothers Limited.
Sydney, N.S.W.
No. 57.
V
X
Hunyadi
> Janos I
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
Bottled at the Springs
.Used the World overj
I Drink on arising a wineglassful for J
1 INDIGESTION and 1
BILIOUSNESS
df
Our Summer Specialty—
The “No-Vest” Flannel Suit
A number of friends will recognise in this NO-VEST Suit the
popular Two-piece Suit which has proved such a favorite in past
seasons. *
This year we are calling it the “NO-VEST” Suit, so as to distin-
guish it from the productions of other firms.
The suit we illustrate is obtainable in light, dark, mid-grey and
herringbone effects.
Coat, with plain back and plain Trousers 25/*
Better quality, in light, mid-grey and dark grey—coat with centre
seam and vent —trousers with permanent turned-up bottoms 27 /6
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements, when
ordering.
Patterns on request. Add 1/- postage per suit.
Peapes ©. Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
While Melbourne’s Wowsing parsons are
wasting a lot of energy in trying to have a
particular set of Scripture lessons taught
in the State schools and indulging in foolish
insectarian capers, a more sensible toiler in
the vineyard—Rev. Alex. McCallum —has
been perambulating the suburbs and obser-
ving the closeness and general insanitari-
ness thereof. The other Sabbath he told
Wesley church-goers that the city was un-
scientifically planned, badly governed and
in danger of becoming an exploiting-ground
for greedy landlords. He had seen in North
Melbourne rows of cottages with frontages
of only 10ft. to the street; in Richmond lots
of double-houses on 24ft. blocks; in one of
the best streets in North Fitzroy terraces of
houses each with a 13-feet frontage. St.
Kilda and Toorak made a better show in
front, but he had seen there houses, for
which 255. a week rent was charged, with
back yards only 10ft. square—smaller than
a single bedroom ought to be —while far too
many houses possessed no bathroom. Of
course these disgracefully diminutive yards
and cupboards of _ living rooms, closely
packed on small sections of close-built cities,
are hotbeds of disease and infantile ceme-
teries. The builders of old European cities
had the excuse that they knew no better.
We are building in the 20th century, and
should know a lot better.
THE FREQUENCY OF ACCIDENTS
AND BROWNS.
PERCIVAL : “I hear Brown was killed by
a tram the other day.”
THE FAIR LADY I MOGEN: “The same thing
happened to the poor fellow six months ago.”
The Sydney excursion steamer, on its busy
days, may be rather like an overcrowded
poultry coop ; but at least it is never a vast
distance from land and help. It goes to and
fro on narrow, landlocked waters, and, if
there is an accident, it must be in front of
somebody’s front windows. The Melbourne
boat, after passing Williamstown, is out of
touch with the shore, and, if anything hap-
pens, it is' purely the boat’s own affair.
Lately, Premier Watt got the independent
report he asked for after receiving the assur-
ance of the Victorian Marine Board that
the life-saving gear on the Bay boats w r as
sufficient—that is to say, in accordance with
the tragic Board of Trade requirements. He
found that the excursionist goes forth in his
hundreds for a long, happy day on the waters
with a penn’orth of real life-saving gear
(usually about enough to accommodate a
tenth of the full complement), and a mass of
lifebelts —the sort of cork trifles that every
shipwrecked passenger wears as a precaution
against being washed out of his boat. The
writer would not care to be left in the centre
of Port Phillip, even with a good lifebelt
firmly tied on, and plenty of company bob-
bing around. It is a large, lonely expanse
of sea, where one might float undiscovered
for many hours. And occasionally there are
storms and sharks. If the shipping com-
panies take up the stand that it is impossi-
ble to equip mere excursion steamers with
boats sufficient to hold their present swarm-
ing loads, the cause of humanity might be
simply served by cutting a few hundreds off
their licenses. The all-day excursion trip of
Port Phillip is really a sort of short voyage.
The passing of an inward or outward-bound
steamer is a great event in a lonely day for
which people crowd to the rail, and wave,
and cheer. It will be the chance steamer
that will one day startle Queensclnr or Wil-
liamstown by landing a dozen or so white
and shivering people, who will mention that
they are the only survivors of the lost ex-
cursion boat Floating Pub.
* * * *
This is the age of the hustler, literary and
otherwise. Publisher Heinemann, of Lon-
don. announces a book on the loss of the
Titanic, written by one of the saved pas-
sengers, Laurence Beesley. According to
the puff preliminary, Beesley’s book is to be
a “record of the disaster and a study of its
significance.” It will treat of the “psycho-
logy of crowds, the prevalence of supersti-
tion, the effect of the awful experience upon
those who were saved, and the wide differ-
ence between the actual facts and the appar-
ent probabilities of the situation.” All this
could have been put into one old-fashioned
word —“Catchpenny.”
“Inchiquin”: I see that an unmarried
lady speaker, at a Labor social in South
Australia, made a demand that women
should be paid foil
their labor. (As
most domestic food-
ruiners, typists, fac-
tory tartlets, and so
on, get their wages
more or less regu-
larly, I presume she
is referring to the
stay-at-home lady
who brooms, cooks
and dusts.) It is a
fine, generous idea ;
but I don’t see how
it’s going to be
worked without a lot
of household book-
keeping. Say the
Housewives’ Wages
Board fixes the min-
imum wage at £2
per week. The old
man gets £5. Out
of that he pays rent,
£1; household and
personal expenses,
£2; wife’s salary,
£2 ; total, £5. Sur-
plus for riot and
dissipation, nil. Is
he to be allowed to
get something back
from her by charg-
ing up board, amuse-
ments, tram-fares,
hats, clothing, etc.?
Or is she to get all
these things thrown
in, and obßge him
out of her accumulated surpluses with short-
dated loans at a high rate of interest?
• * * *
“Horatio Breathless” writes :
Whilst passing a Sydney hoarding, the other day, I
noticed, amongst the bulging corset posters, and tiie
•noble whisky posters, and the life-size illustrations
of the murder scene from “The Worst Wife of the
Family”—l say, amongst all these hilarious and
variegated things, I noticed a solemn, unsigned
Warning that I would be Prosecuted if I threw
tram-tickets about the filthy streets which the
Council irrigates with a barrel.. At first, I thought
it _ was a cunning, sensational advertisment—some-
thing on the lines of the proclamation that begins
“One Thousand Pounds Reward,” and ends up
abruptly with “Drink Candlebat’s Cocoa.” Then I
looked again and decided that it must be a new
idea of the new Gaud Mayor’s. The Sydney citizen
must now either keep his paper rubbish in his pocket,
and risk an accusation of attempted fraud, when a
tramway inspector bails him up and is shown the
first relic that comes to hand, or he can run about
like a dog and risk his life in a time-wasting hunt
for one of the futile wire baskets that occur every
half-mile or so. Seems to me that the Gaud Mayor
is expecting too much if he expects every citizen to
make life one long, fierce hunt for a rubbish box. It
would be more practical to fit each car with some
sort of waste-paper receptacle. Premier McGowen,
the boss of the State, recently made some weighty
remarks about the suppression of the Sunday cab-
bage. Clarke, chief of the city, is solid on the
disposal of tram tickets. There’s no stopping these
big men —they Get Things Done.
ANOTHER ASPECT OF THE THEATRE
SEATING QUESTION.
BENNO: "Look ’ere, Sis. if yeh want me t’
take yeh t’ the theatre, you’ll have t’ go
into trainin’ ter it. They sells space by
the foot now.”
By the Oldest
Inhabitant: —
A tew feet of George-
street, Sydney, were sold
last week at the rate
of £56 per inch. The
inches in question at
one time formed part
of Barrack Square;
they number 864, or
72ft., and immediately
adjoin the premises re-
cently occupied by the
Mutual Life Associa-
tion. At the early
sales on the George-
street frontage of the
Barrack Square (1859),
Lebbeus Hordern gave
LB2 and £69 per
foot. Bill Nash, of
much gambling mem-
ory, gave £63 10s.;
J. Davis, £6O. The
lowest figure realised
was £54. The five
shops on the corner of
Wynyard-street, going
north, when first built
were occupied by
Thomas Garton and
Co. (importers) ; Ren-
wick, Bates and Co.
(drapers) ; Augusta
Jane Layers (mil-
liner) ; Thomas Taylor
(grocer) ; and Lazarus
and Co. (importers).
The corner, in the mid
’7o’s, was the music
warehouse of W. H.
Paling; then the Mu-
tual Life got it and
rebuilt. It is said that
the scrap just sold
changed hands in
boom-time at £BO,OOO,
just double what it
brought recently. The
late Arthur ltenwick
was a member of the
syndicate which made
the deal. Subsequently
Renwick is said to have
been sole owner, and it
is alleged that his
executors sold his “in-
terest” to the recent
vendors about 18
months ago. It could
only have been “an
interest,” as Arthur
Renwick went down
badly, with a whole
bank lying on his
chest.
“Hullo”: Profound thought has enabled
me to predict that the Australian mother of
the future will invariably produce twins.
The Prime Minister promises a bonus of £5
for each baby born. The family doctor
charges the same fee for delivering twins
and triplets as he does for the solitary
youngster. The mother of twins will there-
fore get £lO, while paying only the fee for
one baby; in other words, she will get the
benefit of a reduction on taking a quantity.
Hence, with the rising price of living, the
financial aspect of births will yearly bulk
more largely; and once this cheap method
of population production is appreciated
there will set in a steady demand for twins.
This can be achieved only by marriage with
those girls who have twins in the family.
Tnese girls will, therefore, according to the
theory of evolution, be married more early
and often than the spinsters whose ancestry
shows no signs of twins. The rush to wed
triplets will be worse than the rush for the
footboard of a Sydney tram, while the un-
fortunate girl whose mother or father wasn’t
a twin will be left stranded in spinsterhood.
Continue this evolution for a lew genera-
tions, and single births will be a rarity, and
basinettes will be sold in pairs. Q.E.D.
A FINE POINT.
If it is good to manufacture State bricks, then why
not State meals? The majority of the workers are
never likely to want bricks, unless to heave at cer-
tain politicians (figuratively, of course); but we do
want three meals a day at a moderate cost.
Daily paper.
“Hey, now! You ain't gointer throw that
brick, are yez?”
“Oh, yes! But only figurative.[?]!”
Wilds Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best "of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
A REFORM OF WORDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Since Kyabram, every isolated Vic. district has had
a feverish desire to make itself notorious by hook or
by crook. Maldon is the latest centre to make mani-
festations. Maldon’s specialty is a crusade against
cursing.
I do not live in Maldon town,
And I am very glad of that.
I’d hate to have the whole place down
On my poor, bald, devoted crown,
Whene’er I wished in language flat
To say just what I thought of Fat,
Or pin the latest Tory fiction
With plain, Homeric Malley-diction.
If virtuous Maldon has its way,
No hloke will ever find again
The simple, stirring words to say
About the features of the play,
When Basher makes a heap of slain,
And puts the umpire out of pain,
Or Argus pars, with tears are dewy
About the woes of Hop Poon Gooey.
If our folks swear a good deal more
Than sons of other countries do,
Please recollect the Orange bore,
Those weary wretches who deplore
The flight of capital, and view
Ther frenzied old sectarian crew.
Then say why Maldon so averse is
To words, while bearing with the curses.
VICTORIA.
ED DYSON.
CONVENTION MANNERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For the first time in convention-history, at the
night sessions at Baltimore, many scores of the dele-
gates and alternates came in evening clothes straight
from local hospitable tables, nor did even one
of the 12,000 “rooters” in the galleries make disre-
spectful remarks about it —such as they surely would
have done a generation ago. Probably at least a
third of the 2100 men on the Baltimore floor were
armed, and the general knowledge of that fact had
due weight in the maintenance of endurable manners.
— New York correspondent of S. M. Herald.
I don’t know what a “rooter” is,
Nor do I want to know;
Perhaps it is a kind of pig
That roots for things below,
Like acorns, truffles, and such fare —
But let it go—l do not care!
I know what a convention is—
At least, the Austral kind,
At which strange oddities and freaks,
And third-sex folk you find!
And at conventions, I know well,
These curious beings squawk and yell!
Alas! it seems we’re miles behind
The great United States;
For, there, conventions often lead
Unto the Pearly Gates-
While orators expand with pride,
The Undertaker waits outside!
A verbal 'quip, a chance remark,
Elicits some dissent;
Then someone shoots a random ball—
Who knows which way it went'/
The interrupting yell of “Liar!”
Is always certain to draw fire!
Amid loud thunders of applause
The wretched wight who’s hit
Is carted to the waiting hearse,
To see if he will fit
The shell of polished oak or beech
The orator resumes his speech.
Alas! we’re miles and miles behind
The country of the Free!
We chuck our interjectors out —
By one, by two, by three!
Our deadliest weapon is the Jaw. . . .
This is the fault of too much Laiv!
N.S.W.
PETRONIUS EARBITER.


<^ te> U'tes*'wove!** •$ rMtv m^liKe,
f.oure WWli ‘S COw,.q % «-i*o '/ocue
■fee ' ,o *‘* , s e*«- rcl *« oflffese
•* At of f?e|><i
Vcc>o »»WC.H »•> *JS& AtrvjOr.^
(9 hr > e -' r 'b‘'s or> rece*>+~Co'd
' J / \Vf
"GW MM“ r "
"K E>cell«uf/>nW $ »
11
ounce of- 1
e/e. I MJ
c&U.oO, /
fe. WtoAe-e. «>e »
C-ty W *® I+ -
E«op'Fe irm,<£ ,
t,*e been woes* . JW-nW**
{afe of Ana.ma.-c,'. Sgfc
His solicitors, in sending him a ftnal
statement upon their charges, showed
that the £lOOO awarded as damages was
required to meet the costs over' an /.
above those aUowed by the rules of the«
Court. He had, therefore, no respond- \
biUty in dealing with any portion of the
money awarded as damages.
— Archbishop Clarke.
i the If'l.Keeb]
sftye. }< I'ceeibT
I 'ftjo. "bill, you! I joi't"
ri $ r "
i AttVbisW -jg
- *>\la k s!
t>rotit" t e o ! , -
wW roVWt> Pet-ar *
-tS |>&rf P*ul- ? "
Jo^ln
jkWf* of (>o|.cfc ,
+o sV>•
CHief a>w>*»»s' ,one ' 1 '
who, tie
*s 'fo. W"
(tjv>
ever 2\ n< *
never De-tt'er
'lfon tie >5
67 "
The "orgy of extrava-
gance" in Federal affairs is
really alarming. People
are beginning to realise
what a serious menace to the
future of the Common-
wealth the financial policy
of the Labor party has be-
come.
- AV; w»r«l ! A»<W- foo '■" )>'<^ro
IS'tnere *jo one e)<€rMo^c-On
~W)& ov» ( jot> '*
feulle-T n "t© draiW "to \ mort %c^v><A^l.
Wo<**”>« Wc f+o Vjivitlfto Sir
" Sir,
bol> 2v «l*y ’l°‘^* n
-te sWovr -for itr /-rfk
FEDERAL AND STATE ITEMS.


NABOB BOOT PASTE.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS A WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
PRICE g VALUE
Talk every time in Buying
Good Jewellery.
Without hesitation we say that for high-
class Jewellery our pr.ces are the
lowest in Sydney.
HOW?
WE pay Spot Cash for our Gems.
WE buy most of them in the Rough.
WE cut them to all sizes and shapes.
There are no intermediate profits anywhere.
Choice Diamonds, set in Platinum and 18ct. Gold,
£35.
WE make most of our Jewellery on the premises.
WE Set the Gems.
WE Export Gems largely.
pAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Yalgun”: “Jacques Ivremain” (B.
25/7/’l2) need have no fear of the lick of the blue-
tongued lizard. Have seen a terrier’s ear torn in
three strips by a bite from “bluey” with no ill-
effects. (If “Jacques” has no particular use for one
of his ears, he might try it himself.) Francis
Birtles’s lizard, mentioned in a recent Lone Hand,
is undoubtedly the blue-tongued gent. It bears a
striking and horrible resemblance to the death-adder
when lying at rest, but it is a harmless lie. The
blacks, who prize it as an article of food, call it
“kubbigum.” Have never known a Black Aus-
tralian to eat the sleeping variety.
AN ARTIST.
FIRST COCKY: "They tell me you've got an
actor bloke 'markin' 'ere?"
SECOND COCKY: “Yes, an' he's a bloomin'
good actor, too. I thought he WAS WORKIN'
till he'd been 'ere a week."
Pat O’Maori”: A week or two back a
cheerful wrangle occurred at Manakau (Maoriland),
owing to two Maori tribes claiming the ownership
of one corpse. The dead Maori’s name was Mason,
and he had been brought from Rotorua; but if he
had been' called Ah Sin, the difficulty in deciding
to which hapu he really belonged couldn’t have been
greater. Solomon, in the form of Constable Satherly,
came to the rescue, and decided that the warring fac-
tions should own the cadaver for alternate spells of
half an hour. Then the double-barrelled and inter-
mittent tangi began, and everybody was as happy as
if no hitch had occurred to mar the pleasure of the
funeral.
“Hullo”: Asa change from the habits or
snakes, the antics of emus and the speed of ’possums,
how about some useful information re the habits,
actions and speed of snails? I have watched for years
for the entry of the snail into this page. Now, in
desperation I am dragging the shell-back in by his
horns. The snail is widely distributed in Sydney
suburban gardens. Its favorite food is tomato plants
and young peas. In my garden I possess 2|084,526,-
991 specimens. They are excellent layers, and, as
domestic pets, companionable and tame. In my
last laying competition those that pastured on let-
tuce won first prize. 1 am now experimenting with
winter feed. Anybody ever heard a snail sing?
Mine sing every summer night. All I have to do is
to cull them from their herbage and drop them into
a bucket of salt and water. I have a special stable
that lam breeding for speed and endurance. I have
succeeded in producing a long-backed variety, that
carries its saddle on its neck. The last snail cup
winner did an inch in evens—even minutes. An-
other pen contains my white hopes. Jack Johnson
was knocked out last night by a kidney push from an
ungloved left horn. Will any Abo.-shorter-and-uglier-
word tell me how to protect snails from ducks? And
how about a duty on imported snails?
* * * *
“Iyles Innison”: For a recent Gilgandra
(N.S.W.) wedding breakfast the father of the bride
slaughtered a bullock, a dozen sheep, the same
number of turkeys and 30 roosters’ wives. Which
reminds me that an ox cooked in one piece—roasted
over a slow fire, for preference—used to be a
popular delicacy in the old glad days of the bush.
At the opening of anew mill at Adelong Crossing
(which, by the way, isn’t far from the present
aborigine mission station at Brungle), a bullock was
cooked whole, and put aside to cool. The pre-
liminary rum had run red and copiously, and the
prodigality of the flow seemed to explain the some-
what mysterious disappearance of a certain—or un-
certain—darky. But he was discovered later—just
before carving time—-sound asleep inside the defunct
quadruped. It was a winter’s night, and Boori had
evidently mistaken the warm interior of the roast
beef for a hollow log, or a cave, or a mia-mia.
* * » *
“Eryander”: About that recent strange
string of domestic tragedies in Hungary. Head of
family—after son-in-law had suicided and daughter
had gone mad—promptly immolated himself. Then
one son murdered his elder brother and tried to
destroy also his mother, who in turn went de-
mented. All within three days. It ought to be a
record, but it isn’t. I remember a case (time, the
early ’6o’s of last century, and location Ulster, Ire-
land) in which a witness in a murder trial got a
bullet through his head the same night. Two of the
victim’s brothers next day smote the brains out of
a man they suspected of being the killer. This
man’s wife, the same night, fired a double shot-gun
through a window of the brothers' house, killing one
on the spot and wounding the other, but not severely
enough to prevent him from getting to the woman’s
house before her. Here he waited in the dark with
an axe, and split the woman’s .skull on her own
threshold. Next day, when the police tried to seize
him, he shot two constables dead) mortally wounded
another, and then blew his brains out. Eight kill-
ings within 48 hours! And that wasn’t the end of
it, for the feud went on, wi,th an occasional assassi-
nation on one side or the other, until the few of one
of the families that hadn’t been slaughtered or
hanged cleared out to U.S.A. There are cheerful
times at times in Ulster—when they reckon that the
time is ripe.
* * * *
“E.W.0.” relates how Patrick Moses
struck the pub, and, how the beer gushed forth for
the children of Israel: At the conclusion of a nine
days’ jag the tongues of the camp were hanging out.
We hadn’t a coin or a drop amongst the . lot of us.
Credit was off. Joe, the genius of
the bunch, hadn’t an idea to bless us
with. At last, after prolonged dis-
cussion, Paddy the Dancer, a liquor
diplomatist of long standing, was de-
puted to make a frontal attack on
the strongly-entrenched publican. After
a feeble protest, which was immedia-
tely overruled, the forlorn hope de-
parted on his mission. He saluted
Bung cordially, and, disregarding' the
frosty glance of recognition, com-
menced his recital. “Mr. Hogshead,
’tis a sad thing’s happened. Mad
Mick’s took bad.” Bung looked
slightly interested, but suspicious.
“What’s wrong with him?” “Shure,
and it’s in the horrors he do be, and
’tis yourself I would be after askin’
to ring up the police to come and tek
him. We be goin’ away, and can’t
look after him, and we reckoned as
’twas you sould him the grog, you
wouldn’t mind ringin’ the police.”
“Dammit, man, can’t you fellows
stop a day or two to look after a
mate?” “Shure, an’ what can we do
for him? The police will give him
a drink or two —which we can’t, bein’
stiff! And, shure, if he doied, ’tis
us they’d be callin’ as witnesses, an’
that would be no good for your pub.”
Hogshead started uneasily. “Do
you think a drink or two would
fix him ?” “ ’Twould take a good
drop—and he’d want some more to-
night!” “Well, you had better take
this bottle ; and come again to-night
if he wants more to quieten him. Have a stiff one
yourself now.” Patrick’s return was a triumph, and
there was joy in Israel that night.
* * * *
‘Montalex”: To “Mallarapoonie” (B.
25/7/’12). The crocodiles and alligators are not
“saurians.” The Sauridce are the true lizards, and the
Crocodilidw are far in advance of them in point
of evolution. Instance, the four-chambered heart
begins with the crocodiles—the lizard’s heart having
only three chambers, and the fish’s only two.
Crocodilus porosus, the estuarine crocodile, certainly
differs greatly from C. Jolinstonii, which is akin to
the fish-eating gavial of the Ganges; while, as for
alligators, there are only two species surviving—
one in China and the other in the southern U.s’.A.
The South American caimans and jacaras belong to
a distinct genus, and differ from both croc, and
’g-ator in being armor-plated on belly as well as on
back. Of the differences between the other two, the
most, readily observable is the fitting of the alli-
gator’s fourth lower-jaw tooth into a socket in the
upper jaw, whereas in the croc, this tooth lies in
an open notch.
OTTERLY RUINED.
No. 1: "Wot's the matter, Spongy? You look all broke up."
No 2: "I should say I was broke up. I wax a-sitin' 'ere, in this bar , dozin' and
dreamin', when a bloke route in an' shouted fur alt 'ands three times— AND 1
SLEP' THROUGH IT ALL!!!"
“McNorth”: “F.A.T.” in his remarks on
the eccentricity of tides around Thursday Island is
quite correct. Some time ago an expert set out to
compile a comprehensive little tide-table for Torres
Strait. He left Thursday Island at the top of high
water, journeyed an hour to Prince of AVales Island,
to find that it was full tide; passed on to Morn
Island, to discover that the waves had also topped
the limit at that point, and spent the rest of the
morning visiting other spots, where the water was
covering as much of the foreshores as the law of
gravity would permit. Finally, he returned to
Thursday Island, to discover that the edge of the sea
was still where he had left it several hours before.
He did not make his tide-table. Personally, I have
seen the tide flow in the same direction for a fort-
night, and as at that time I wanted to sail a lugger
in the opposite direction, the enforced delay drove
me to sodawater. Sodawater is a very dangerous
drink in those parts.
“Pick”: I whoop a loud hooray for the
sentiments expressed by “Snell” (B. 25/7/’l2), re-
specting the knowledge displayed by the average
immigrant when engaged in bush work. Down Bega
(N.S.AV.) way recently, an employer inquired of a
“new chump,” who had taken on a job of ring-
barking, how the work suited him. The reply was
that he found the green trees easy enough to ring,
but that the dry ones were dashed hard, and he
wouldn’t have taken the job at such a low price had
he known there were so many dead trees in the pad-
dock.
Letter received by a Perth (W.A.) hard-
ware firm:—-
dear mistar
i get the pump i buy from you but why for gods
sake you doan send me no handel. Wats the use a
pump wen she doan have no handel. i loose to me
my customer course he very pleased (i dont tink)
sure thing 3m u doan trete me rite, i rote the 10
days now and my customer he holler for water like
hell for the pump. She got no handel so wat the hell
i goan to do with it. You know he is hot summer
now and the win he no blow the dam pump. Doan
send the handel pretty quick i sen her back and i go
and order some pump from Harry Skarf ’companie.
goodbye,
Yours troofy,
(Sgd.) ItoMur.us IcnciiKAM.
P.S. —Since i write i fine the dam handel in the
box. Excuse to me pies.
“M.lv.” tells an exhilarating story. A
parson, a chemist and a confirmed Orangeman met
somewhere in the N.S.W. cow country during the
dangerous July week. The parson was a broad-
minded Scot, who took his whisky neat, and was
prepared to be friendly to all men. The Orangeman,
who is strongly suspected of being a Jew, without
any valid claims on the walls of Derry, gave his
usual bright and friendly toast of “To Hell with the
Pope!” The parson, in a dignified tone, deprecated
the burnt toast, and was straightway told that he
was a dashed “weak-kneed” Protestant—and much
worse. The man of potions murmured something
about an apology being due ; but the Church Militant
simply tore off his specs, and coat, and hit the man-
nerless Israel O’Londonderry round the room till
he fell like Jerusalem. I regret to say that the
vigorous reverend has to explain the justifiable
thumping of the absurd Popeburner to a pained
presbytery. The proper explanation, of course, is
that it was an urgent public service.
“Gil”: In a more or less misguided
moment the Gundagai (N.S.W.) Pastures Board
decided, owing to the alleged mischief wrought by
wombats near Batlow, to pay a 2s. bonus for scalps.
The Board almost lost its breath and its bank ac-
count on the very first pay-day, for considerably over
2000 scalps were passed in for payment. Now the
bonus is no more. As soon as the news flashed
through the mountains that wombats were worth a
florin a time, the diggers, fossickers and trappers
simply turned the multitudinous water-races into the
burrows, with the result that the hog’s long-lost
brother exuded from the wetness, and promptly lost
the apparatus he listens with. Not for many years
had the gold-seekers of the Batlow hills struck such
payable dirt. Had they judiciously nursed and con-
served the market, instead of holocausting the pig
that laid the silver egg, wombat scalping might have
developed into a permanent and sufficiently lucrative
industry. But they went the whole wombat, with
the result that there is now no further demand for
even that portion of him which is ear to-day and
gone to-morrow.
DRY FARMING.
FACETIOUS LOAFER: “ Huilo, Percy, out sow-
ing your wild oats?"
ARISTOCRATIC DITTO: “My good fellah, such
was my-intention, but I have suspended
operations owing to — ah—severe drought."
THE SUNSET SHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The steamer Jandra, after being tied up six
months, has sailed to load station supplies for Dun-
lop station. —A news item from Bourke (N.S.W.).
O, Bourke, old rambling township, with your low,
white roofs ablaze,
The seaport of the “Trickle” and the great lone
camel ways ;
From where the fussy steamers start with carbide
lights a-gleam,
Of your quaint life, and strain and strife, it does me
good to dream.
Six months the Jandra laj' beside your steep and
muddy banks ;
No backwash from her paddle-wheels, no flashing of
her cranks;
No cooking in her galley, and no captain at her
wheel ;
No grinding on the mudbanks, probed and puddled
by her keel.
And that good crew that I once knew—two captains
and a boy,
A cook, and one fair stewardess (a roving poet’s
joy!) ;
A deckhand pushing cargo up, and dragging firewood
down
The crumbling banks—and aided by the two good
skippers Brown.
I guess that in that slow half-year they parted with
their “sprats”
Between the river stories told o’ evenings down at
Tatt.’s—
The tales the oldest “whaler” heard with widely-
gaping mouth—
Of fights at Dunlop’s shearing, and of love affairs at
Louth.
The tales of racing with the flood—just missing rock
and snag ;
Of speed against insurance when the freighted
barges drag;
Of finding suicides and such—and mud-encrusted
bones
Where those explorers built their grey embattlement
of stones.
But down the wires the tidings flash: “The rains
have come at last;
A muddied Mississippi by our town is surging fast.”
The captains two round up the crew. The cook is
lugged aboard.
The paddles turn, the waters churn—and the skippers
thank the Lord!
N.s.w.
GILROONEY.


Phillips Ormonde & Co., consulting engineers,
patent and trade mark attorneys of 266 Flinders St.,
Melbourne, conduct searches respecting both patents
and trade marks and furnish written opinions thereon.
AVithout delay Deeds of assignment, agreements, licen-
ses and other documents affecting the ownership of
patents are prepared. Specially selected correspond-
ents in all the principal capitals of the world. For
the convenience of clients an album of trade marks
has been added. Provisions prevail for the prepara-
tion of high-class drawings.*
Messrs. Eley Brothers, Limited, have been given a
contract by the Admiralty for the supply of
cartridges for the new .455 Webley Automatic Pistol
which has recently been adopted for the use of the
navy.*
MAORI INTERPRETER ATTACKED.
“I was attacked with and suffered considerably
from rheumatism in the knees,” writes Interpreter
Sam Maioha, of Waimate North, N.Z. “I got a
bottle of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, rubbed it in
freely, and was delighted with the result. The pain
soon went away and I had the free use of my limbs.
Since then I have recommended it to others, and
they have thanked me for doing so.”*
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Tty CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
George street, Sydney.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Wind hurts your eyes? Severe frontal
Stearns’ Headache Cure drives it out.
wafer in a little water—-cures quickly.”
headache ?
Take one
FOGGITT, JONES’
PORK BRAWN
If you have not tasted foggitt* Jones;
Pork Brawn, you haven’t tasted,tme
of the finest delicacies made in fheir'j
factories. Might it be suggested
you buy a tin or two and see ho
nice it is for luncheon, tea or picnic y
Your grocer sells it at a reason^
I , price
•-'.MCI
“Sl
Qm
“Yanco” gives his evidence: It isn’t a
new howl that the swindling Rodney proprietor is
emitting over the Watt Government’s decision to ap-
ply the compulsory rate principle to all the irrigated
districts of Victoria. He began to wail when
Elwood Mead first suggested that the rate should be
compulsory, and prophesied all sorts of trouble for
the expert, if he persisted in forcing his pet scheme
on to the public. Three years ago, I was a passen-
ger on the Goulburn Valley train. At Mooroopna
a well-to-do landowner, whom I knew when there
were more kangaroos than fruit trees in the now
famous Ardmona and Lancaster d-stricts, got into
the carriage. He quickly began to discuss the question
that appealed strongly to him just then. He said:
“This proposal of Mead’s is an iniquitous thing. If
it becomes law we will have to pay a rate whether
we want the water or not. I have not irrigated a
foot of land this year, as there has been plenty of
rain to keep my lucerne growing. Yet Mead would
have me pay a rate whether I use the water or not.’
Being questioned further, he admitted that the rate
was a very small one, unless he used the water,
which had to bo paid for at so much per acre foot.
He also admitted that he had grown prolific lucerne
crops each summer and autumn for many years
on h's irrigated fields, and particularly good ones
during the big drought that ended in 1903. I knew
this gentleman was very fond of boasting about a
cattle deal he made at that time. “You bought a
number of Queensland bullocks during the drought ?
I queried. “Yes, I did, IGO of them, and a fine lot
they were. 1 bought them near Echuca at 30 bob a
head, and sold them at from £l2 10s. to £l4
10s. per head, after running them on my irrigated
lucerne paddocks for a few months.” Yet this mis-
erable money-grubber who, in a few months, had
netted at least £lBOO out of irrigation, raved
because it was proposed to charge a few pounds a
year for the privilege of having water available for
irrigating his land, and practically making him inde-
pendent of the rainfall. As a matter of fact, the drought
period that proved so disastrous to stockowners
outside the irrigated area, or those within it who
would not apply the water, had provided him with
his richest harvest. Mead has done the right thing
in forcing the animal to pay up.
“Vagabond”: There is another peculiarity
about the Bay of Porirua, M.L., where “Tiaki”
refers (B. 25/7/’l2) to the tide running up and
down its stairs at the same time. First time I saw
it the bay was a wide, smooth sheet of water. A
few hundred yards out from where the edge was
lapping the shore, and apparently anchored in the
vasty deep, was an unmistakable array of the jumps
one sees on a steeplechase ground. Cautious in-
quiries evoked loud grins from a local inhabitant,
and he assured me that the things actually were
there as “the sticks” for horses to hurdle over.
Naturally I thought he was pulling his long bow and
my leg, and, when he said there was a string of
horses due there for a practice gallop in two or
three hours, I wanted to know if they were sea-
horses, or if it was intended to train the fish of the
bay to jump? But when I came back that way
later on I found the wild waves had retired from busi-
ness over the horizon, and a magnificent stretch of
hard, flat sand had grown in their place. And belt-
ing along over the sand, and bucketing over the
jumps I’d lately seen anchored in the offing, was a
hunch of hard goers.
* * * *
“Dinkum”: The subject of Australian
place names being under consideration, I want to
draw the learned attention of Abo-liars to Banana-
land. There is a Cattle Creek on an average every
nine miles. Seems to me that every streamlet ever
forded by a wandering cow has to be called after the
brute that leaves a devil’s hoofprint in the mud.
Cut-throat, Speculation, Quart-pot and Holy- Joe
Creeks occur about o-nce every 15 miles. One-Mile
Creek happens every six furlongs. On the other hand,
there are many untranslatable native names attached to
quite respectable places. One place is called Mooroobie ;
it is euphonious, but the meaning is unpleasant, and
the person who fails in business there, or gets taken
down in a horse deal, could get back on it by say-
ing that it was well named when they christened it
“death adder.” Recently heard a guard on the
Thallon line raging about the pub-less place called
Toobeah. He objected to it on the ground that it
was cruelty to force a dry-mouthed man to croak or
gasp a cool, foaming name of that sort while toiling
through the teetotal wilderness.
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
PARSON: "Do you know where you're going
to, young man? ”
SODDEN PARTY: “ Hie ! ’Thanks , cabby; I
wash goin ’ home, but (hie) couldn't get
anyone to call yer!”
“Sir Octopus”: In the matter of toads,
South Aus. is very prolific. Almost everything
picked up from the surface of the crow country re-
veals at least one of these reptiles. With one turn
of the spade you invariably get “Morgan's orchard,”
or “three of a kind,” and a “bob-tailed flush” is
quite common. Suburban Adelaide presents the ap-
pearance of perforated zinc these frosty mornings,
when the toads have just got home from the clubs.
Everything is extremely Ilinglish in Adelaide. Does
this account for the toadfulness?
NOT A HOPE.
“Fader, ven I grow up 1 expect to hap all der
monish I vant! ”
“Dot ish impossible, I key. Dere vill always b
SOME monish in der vorldt dot you cannot get."
“Reka”: “My queerest experience,” said
the ancient mariner, “befel me just off the Hen and
Chickens, near Auckland. My mate and I were camp-
ing on one of the islands, prospecting for gold and
finding copper, and we depended on fish to keep us
going. We went off one morning after the day’s
supply, and sat smoking for an hour or two in the
boat without having a bite, and this in a spot where
the fish usually came up two on a line. Presently
I noticed something queer about the
boat. In a dead calm sea she was
slowly going down by the bow.' My
mate noticed it about the same time,
and together we moved to the stern.
Our weight there made no difference.
The bow was level with the water,
and the green curl of the wave was
just ready to break. Suddenly, along
the side there came a flash, and a
grey streak gripped the gunwale. I
had never seen an octopus, but I
knew the symptoms instantly, and I
grabbed the chopper. A foot of
water tumbled into the boat, and ten-
tacle two shot across the bow. a
chopped it wildly. Another, my
chop became steadier. More water,
and still another. I chopped hard,
without apparently making the least
impression on the monster below.
Suddenly the octopus reared itself out
of the water, clinging to the boat, a
grey, slimy bulk, with two great
mournful eyes, colorless and horrible,
and in the middle the parrot beak
that I had often heart] of. Some re-
collection of a boy’s tale—Victor
Hugo the writer, I think —came back
to me, and I remembered that the
beak is supposed to be the only vul-
nerable part of the monster. I knelt
on the middle seat, a tentacle, tre-
mendously strong in its suction,
clutched my left arm, but with the
right I hurled the chopper hard and
straight. The monster began to
shrivel, it dropped slowly off, chopper and octopus
sank in the ocean, and we baled out the boat and
rowed back. I shall never forget those eyes. I
think an octopus is a heart-broken beast.”
“Yarra Yarra”: Re those detached Out-
backers, mentioned recently by “Jimmie Pannikin.
Met one the other day. Born and reared m the
Queensland bush, the largest places he had ever seen
were Burketown and Boulia. He told me of a man
he knew who had seen nothing more staggering than
Booraloola, a three-house city in the Northern Terri-
tory. A man from this district had to go down to
Charters Towers recently, and, never having been
further in than Cloncurry, told me he did not fancy
the trip at all, as he might get abducted, or some-
thing of the kind. These true sons of the solitude
get nervous and apprehensive directly they come in
sight of the deadest town. A grass-grown street
with more than two people in it drives them into a
panic. Man is a timid animal in his natural state.
The Saviours.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Cann (N.S.W.) objected to roads being con-
structed to the cordite factory at Maribyrnong, while
the road to the Lithgow Small-arms Factory was
neglected. There should not be such differential
treatment shown.
Mr. Fuller (N.S.W.) asked why £lO,OOO should
be spent on a remount depot in such a closely settled
place as Liverpool, when there was such a magnifi-
cent area available at the Federal capital.
Mr. Cann: The capital is too far from, Syd-
ney ! ! !
Mr. W. E. Johnson (N.S.W.) moved that the item
“clothing factory, Melbourne, £7000,” be struck
out to enable the factory to be built in the Federal
capital.
The amendment was negatived.
Mr. W. E. Johnson (N.S.W.) moved that the
item “boatshed at Geelong, £800,” be struck out.
This was negatived. —S. M. Herald.
Fuller and Cann and Johnson —John-
son, Fuller and Cann,
And the Sydney Morning Herald’s Parlia-
mentary man!
Helping to save Australia —also her i.s.d.!
I’ll give you Fuller —-
I’ll give you Cann —
And the Parliamentary Herald man—
But Johnson’s the chap for me!
Fuller he sits for Butter, Pigs, Potatoes
and Cream —
And anything hurting the South Cowst
causes Fuller to scream!
Cann, he sits for Nepean—for Iron, and
Coke and Coal —
They’re both long-winded,
And both high-minded,
And never by base self-interest blinded—
But Johnson’s the chap with soul!
Fuller may be an eagle—his sight is
weirdly keen —
And Cann is a perfect demon for spotting
the thing unseen!
But Johnson —Elliott Johnson — he
leaves them both behind,
For he sees all things-— <
Both great and small things—
Fat, thin, long, short, squat and tall
things—
Ah, Johnson’s the proper kind!
Three strong souls together—Johnson,
Fuller and Cann —■
Helping to save Australia—but Johnson’s
the Superman!
Roads or remounts or boatsheds —anything
that may be !
Fuller and Cann,
And the Herald man,
Closely and conscientiously scan
Lest they should rise and flee!
But Johnson—the peerless Johnson —to
scan is not content,
He has to save Australia right down to her
final cent!
He has to cope with Devils in Heil-born
Melbourne Town,
And fiends in Geelong!
And Maribyrnong !.. . .
So, let us praise the Lord in a song
That He sent Johnson down!
n'.s.w.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.
There is something almost cheerful about
the manner in which Fat goes for Labor
whenever he gets the chance. There is no
beating about the bush; no half-measures.
The old Jumbunna coal mine, in Gippsland
(Vic.), has been a dicky proposition almost
since its inception. Its list of dividends is
painfully small, and its future is next to
hopeless. And all, or nearly all, of its
troubles, declared Fat, at a recent meeting,
are due to Labor (with a big L). The meet-
ing was called in consequence of a recent
strike, in which the men were distinctly in
the right; and it passed this resolution: —
That in view of the expense incurred by the recent
labor strike at the mine, and the heavy charges im-
posed on the company by recent legislation, the
shareholders empower the directors, in the event of
any future strike occurring which in their opinion
is likely to jeopardise the interests of the company,
to take the necessary steps to wind up the co.
And then the chairman stood up and gave
the following 12 reasons why the co. was a
failure: —
(1) Want of Protection against N.S.W. coal.
(2) The coal seams are too thin.
(3) The superiority of N.S.W. coal.
(4) Increase of wages.
(5) Increase in the cost of material.
(6) Increase in timber royalties.
(7) The coal royalty of 3d. and 4d. per ton.
(8) Increase in cartage charges.
(9) Increase of rent from Is. to 2s. 6d. per acre.
(10) Income tax.
(11) Reduction of Is. per ton in selling price to
the Government.
(12) Fall in price of slack coal of 2s. 6d. per ton,
owing to the State coal mine.
In short, the 12 causes of failure might be
charged thus : To the Commonwealth (1). La-
bor (2), State Government (3), private land-
lordism (3), Providence (3). And the
other 12 causes of failure which weren’t
mentioned were: Mismanagement (6),
muddle (3), incapacity (3). Yet all the
denunciation was directed at poor old Labor.
One “Paul” writes an epistle to those who
have borrowed off the Hebrews :
The isles known as God’s Own have fallen on evil
davs politically. The Liberal party of Ballance,
the Self-Reliant, and Seddon, the Strong, descended
to Ward. Ward was an ex-telegraph messenger with
the instincts of a titled aristocrat, derived, perhaps,
from careful study of London Week by Week.
Seddon descended into the grave, leaving Ward a
huge majority—and, to-day, the party is routed and
in a minority which threatens to reach double figures
and sustain even greater disasters, if not absolute
obliteration. Old Rumor has it that Seddon, angered
by repeated suggestions that Ward should have a
turn at the leadership, once snarled at a WARD-ite
editor: “So you’re pressing the claims of your politi-
cal pet again, are you? Some day, I suppose, 111
have to leave the Liberal party, and I’ll leave it
with a great majority. Ward will take up the
running, and the Liberal party will go to pieces!
If Seddon said so, he was right. It took Ward less
than six years to destroy the political fortress which
had been left to him, and Maoriland has passed once
more under the sway of the Landlord party, which
20 years ago nearly wrecked the islands by buttering
the land monopolist and exploiting the rest of the
population. The virile Liberalism of Ballance,
Seddon, John McKenzie and Reeves gave place to a
flabby imitation, careful of the feelings of its
enemies and forgetful of the needs of Maoriland. So
the inevitable came,' and the end was inglorious.
Never in the history of Maoriland was suen a '■'•bade.
“Jack” Millar, the hero of the Maritime Strike of
1890, and member of the Ward Ministry, crossed
the floor and voted with his own and Labor’s tradi-
tional enemies. Clad in pyjamas and overcoat he
rose from a sick bed, entered the House by the Oppo-
sition door to the accompaniment of division bells,
sat in the seat of a life-long opponent, and, when
accompanying the Ayes to the right, passed his om
Ministerial seat to smash his party. It was as close
to a political tragedy as can be enacted by a live
man. “Plain Bill” Massey is Prime Minister, and
the Liberal party has departed to the wilderness a
rabble. As far as Liberalism is concerned, Massey
will have a long reign, but he is not at all a happy
man. A United Labor partv could wreck him, but
the question is—will the time produce the leader
strong enough to unite the Labor party?
“Locust”: Some of the names around
Sydney, in Assistant-Surveyor Meehan’s (torn) chart
(1807), sound curiously to-day. Circular Quay was
Warrang; Darling Harbor, Cockle Bay; Miller s
Point was Cockle’s Bay Point; Farm Cove, Woc-
camagully; Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, Yurong; and an
old friend appears as “Wallamooloo.” Also, the
present Man-o’-War Steps appear as Tobegully -
clearly an intelligent anticipation of the coming
of Australia’s Noblest Son.


The new Vigilance
Committee will keep
the suspect well in
view-
It will intervene when he is dining
too well.
Inform him
upon occasions
that cigars and
other luxuries of
the rich are dele-
terious to his
political pri n-
cipies. and ear-
nestly advocate
the chastening in-
fluence of a clay
pipe.
Dissuade him from
becoming too familiar
with vice-royalty.
Point out to him that to waste his
hard-earned salary upon hussies is a sin
o£ revolting hideousness.
The hon. member for Gum Flat
has recourse to surreptitious
methods of exit and entrance, to
avoid the minions of the Com-
mittee.
Attend his meetings, and in-
timate when he is voicing a heresy.
Lecture the delinquent
when he falls into evil
ways which might sully
the snowy reputation of
his party.
A cautious M.lj.A. draws a
red herring across his trail.
A suspicions member takes precau-
tions.
THE NEW LABOR PARTY IN SYDNEY.
An organisation has been formed in Sydney to keep an eye on the State Labor Government, and warn it of its many backslidings
from the Labor programme. This shows the organisation’s agent attending to business.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY,
For
DURABILITY,
Some of the WORST CASES of
DEBILITY,
INSOMNIA,
NERVE BREAKDOWN,
CONSTIPATION
have been cured by
CLEMENTS TONIC.
The Rev. J. llosking, D.D., Minis-
ter of the Congregational Mission
Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne, writes: —
“J suffered from Nervous Pros-
tration, Insomnia and Nervous
Headaches. One bottle of
Clements Tonic put me right, and
was worth its weight in gold!”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The late E. W. O’Sullivan was all his life
a staunch and uncompromising Protection-
ist. Now some friends have erected an im-
ported tombstone over his grave.
“Judah O’Ferguson” writes :
I accept Israel Macßulletin’s challenge (B.
23/7/’l2) to name a really rich Jew. This is the
Melbourne list, within my knowledge: Monty Cohen,
Sol Green, Theo Fink, Sam Lazarus (Bendigo), George
Goliin. Mike Jacobs, Isaac Isaacs, Joe Kronheimer,
Saul Joshua, Ben Nathan, Loo Myers, Abe Sniders,
Barnet Glass, Alf Benjamin, Adolf Joske and Hugo
Wertheim. It will be noticed there is not a single
money lender or bank director in this list, and the
money has mostly been made by hard work.
Our old friend W. N. Willis has collaborated
with Mrs. Archibald Mackirdy in the pro-
duction of a book just published in London
entitled, “The White Slave Market.” It is
described by the London Telegraph as a
“fervent but well-reasoned exposure of that
abomination.” According to the paper, Wil-
lis “was for 16 years a member of the Aus-
tralian Parliament, and worked hard in that
colony towards the raising of the moral
tone.” So we have only one Parliament
here and are still a “colony.” And Willis
did his best to raise our moral tone.
“U.S.” writes largely in capital letters :• —-
A clip from that omnivorous paper known as the
Exchange : Elijah Dowie is reincarnated in a Chica-
goan, styled His Humbleness Dr. Adusht, founder of
a sect called Mazdaznan, in the Zoroaster line. He
claims to be also a reincarnation of Moses and
Napoleon. An important part of the worship is
rhythmic breathing. A four days’ congress of the
Mazdaznans has just been held in Montreal, called
a gahanbar. The Humble Dust who Dowie-ises was
supported, in a hall called the Ambassy, by His
Obedience Dr. Abraham, Mother Adelia, Ilalantress
Ruth and Mother Cleopatra. The ceremonies in-
cluded invocation of the Blessed Ainyahitah, Sun-
clothed Service, Egyptian Postures, Transmigration,
the Table of Super-Abundance, Explanation of Dis-
coveries in the Gobi Desert, Healing from the Ozone,
Celebration of the Robed Magi, etc. Abdid Baha, an
alleged Persian crank, who has been travelling
through America with a suite, engaged in the per-
formance of Holy Mysteries, complains that the
whole show is stolen from him. Dowie had a trouble-
some father in Adelaide. A supposed father of His
Humbleness Adusht has come forward, and declares
that the new Napoleonmoses Dowie was made in
Germany, and it is humbug that he came from the
Persian City South of the Clouds, in the Forest of
Cinnamon Trees.
About a Rich Defunct: —
How humorless are these millionaires! The last
will and testament of Sir Edward Sassoon—formerly
of London, but now of Heaven, or elsewhere —states
that he decided to cut off the charities without a
shilling in order to express his protest against
Lloyd Georges “impolitic and prohibitive legacy
duty on charitable bequests.” Purse-pride has
all sorts of unconsciously arrogant ideas, but the
idea of inflicting a post-mortem snub on the Public
Exchequer bv refusing to bequeath money to the
hospitals is about the oddest product of a gold-bug’s
brain that ever got reverent attention from the Tory
press. Only a Sassoon could call a legacy duty
“prohibitive,” anyway. His heirs and assigns have to
pay legacy duty, but that didn’t prevent the fat
departed from bequeathing a million sterling to his
relatives. He didn’t order it to be buried with
him, or leave it all to Lloyd George, on the condi-
tion that he should ride through the city in a nude
state, on a bare-backed steed, crying “God Save the
House of Lords!” at every street corner, as an
indignant millionaire would have done if he had
been capable of a joke. No, the ridiculous Sassoon
was not prohibited from following the ordinary rules
of post-mortem benevolence, save as regards the
charities. His beauests were taxed in suite of his
disapproval. The Government got there all the same.
And the notion that a Socialistic Chancellor of the
Exchequer is really a public charity and a boon to
the lowah ordabF never occurred to Sir Ed. Sassoon
at all. He died in ignorance of the fact that
charity begins at the Government.
ATTORNEY-
GENERAL
HUGHES
(looking out
of the right
corner of
his right
eye).
The holy noose of matrimony will shortly
be slipped around the 19in. neck of Grant
Hervey, who has written much good verse
for this paper, and is nowadays connected
with the sock and buskin business. The
colossal victim is to be quietly executed in
the presence of a few sympathisers. The
lady is said to have wonderful red hair, a
Venusian figure, and a special talent for golf.
WET FEET
often result in a heavy cold, neglect of which means
Pneumonia or Consumption. A positive preventive
of these ills is Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery for
Coughs and Colds. Small dose. Pleasant to take.
Every bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. *
Mules, lately Bishop of Nelson (Maori-
land), who has just given up wearing episco-
pal leggings after trailing the apron of his
job for 20 years, had gifts cast at his feet
the other evening by the local Art Society,
the citizens and the clergy. Mules had an
astonishing record at Cambridge University
somewhere back in the Middle Ages. Lately,
when he visited England, his old depot of
learning killed the cow’s stout child in his
honor. A few spare doctorships and things
which happened to be lying around were
given to him in a bunch, and he returned to
Maoriland to resign from his shepherding
and lead the simple life. Mules had one
great distinction which ought to make his
halo shine like a 2000-candlepower electric
bulb. He was not particularly gifted in the
act of bisliing, and he couldn’t preach worth
a row of Archdeacons, but he did deserve
the tribute paid him by a leading Noncom-
formist person in England as “the most
liberal Bishop in Christendom.” His
liberality was not of the political sort, but
of the brand carried by Erasmus, who
thought Luther, the Pope, and Henry VIII.
all about equally right.
“Machete” on an old-time explorer:—
“The famous explorer,” who used to bite his
Papuan carriers when they irritated him (B.
18/7/’l2), was the late D’Alberti, discoverer of the
mighty Fly River. He was an Italian, with the
frame of a Hercules, the temper of a fiend with
sciatica, who has just been warned for duty in the
frozen Hell, and a tongue that could silence a con-
firmed beachcomber. Ancient and itinerant black-
guards of these parts tell hair-raising tales of D’Al-
berti. He had been in the Italian navy, and was in
the inglorious scrap at Lissa in ’66, where the little
Austrian fleet —mostly wooden, and the rest small,
cheap ironclads of the floating gridiron persuasion—
made such a hash of the Italian navy, then regarded
as about the finest in European waters. That was
the time when Tegetthof, the Austrian, gave the brief
order to “ram everything grey,” and broadly hinted
that if any Austrian captain got a chance to drive
his ship headlong at an enemy six times its size,
and didn’t drive for all he was worth, he (Tegetthof)
would speak to that captain after the battle in the
improbable event of him (Tegetthof) being alive.
Perhaps the misery of Lissa soured the future ex-
plorer. Anyhow, he became a howling terror to
white, brown and brindled folk under his command.
One of his lieutenants, Giulianetti, became an
A.R.M. in the Papuan Service. He was shot while
sleeping by one of his own native constables. This
was the only instance of treachery to their white
officers which ever stained the good record of the
Armed Native Constabulary.
THE MACGREGOR, Governor of Queensland.
“Carmine”: Apropos Prime Minister
Fisher’s proposal for an Australian Portrait
Gallery, herewith a list of the celebrities,
false-alarm and otherwise, which the Trus-
tees of the Melbourne National Gallery have
admitted to date: Redmond Barry, G. V.
Brooke, sculptor Summers, Marcus Clarke,
baronet W. J. Clarke, secretary Cowderoy
of the Chamber of Commerce (biggest thing
in the collection), shorthand-writer Webb,
Bishops Perry and Moorhouse, McCulloch,
Sladen, Gillies, Sargood, a very incomplete
lot of Governors (it even reaches to Gawler,
of South Australia), Lord Melbourne, O'Shan-
assy, Fawkner, Sturt, Dean Macartney,
Duffy, Edward Wilson, Macleay ( !), Buve-
lot, Capt. Cook, Ilumffray, explorer Hume,
Spotswood (Seddon’s father-in-law, pre-
sented by Seddon), J. M. Grant, Rev. J.
Clow (first Presbyterian), astronomer Ellery,
surveyor Russell, Dr. Maund, Tasma, Melba
(no other women), John Blyth (who’s he?),
Service. David Stead (a Geelong settler), J.
Cashel Hoey ( !), Cowie (of Geelong), Flin-
ders, Strzlecki, Banks, E. J. Brewster
(Esq.). F. Scott (London Parliamentary
Agent for Victoria in 1844 and onward, and
a great worker for Senaration), Henty,
librarian Tulk, G. A. Thomson and Fol-
ingsby.
Ben Tillett, the convivial Cockney Labor
leader, has fallen a victim to the wiles of
Britain’s Yellow Press. The Daily Express,
a high Tory sheet, came out, the other day,
with an account of how Ben dined. at
Frascati’s Restaurant with an unspecified
duchess, and, aided by her, sank a magnum
of champagne. It sounds an unconvincing
yarn at best, even assuming the duchess is a
dipsomaniac, and ready to sacrifice her repu-
tation for Ben’s sweet sake, and assuming,
likewise, that Benjamin is a tank, and care-
less of whatever fair fame he possesses. Still,
the yarn went, and there was a violent erup-
tion the next time Tillett addressed the
brethren on Tower Hill. He was interrupted
1491 times with shouts of, “How about the
duchess?” and “Have a glass of champagne,
Ben.” He explained in vain. When last
heard of he was threatening the Express
with libel, and the Express was filling its
space with the item: “No writ from Ben
Tillett! Great Complaint in the Office.”
The town of Liverpool (N.S.W.) was
named by Governor Macquarie in 1810,
after the then Secretary of State for the
Colonies. In 1812 the man it was named
after became Prime Minister of Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and he sat on the chest of
his job and his country till 1827. His name
was Jenkinson, and he was the second earl.
The earliest visible member of the family
was a bagman named Anthony Jenkinson,
who was the first man to carry English
samples to Central Asia. (Anthony bagged
or drummed in Tartary in the days of James
I.) Jenkinson-Liverpool, the Prime Minis-
ter, died of paralysis, which some people
said was really suicide complicated by
drink. The title flickered out in 1851,
through vagrancy or lack of visible honest
means of support, or something, when the
third Jenkinson-Liverpool was buried. It
was revived in 1905, in the person of a
rather ancient citizen named Foljambe, who
became an angel in 1908. So it is the fifth
Liverpool who is going to try his hand at
the business of being Governor in Maori-
land.
The “Oldest Inhabitant” discourses re a
Sydney business man and his predecessors,
contemporaries and successors; also about
public-houses and sundries :
Amongst the deaths recorded on Monday was that
ot Edward Ritchie Cole, youngest son Of Captain
James Lewis Cole. He was for many years a book-
seller and stationer in George-street, first in a build-
ing over the site of which now opens Martin-place,
and afterwards on the corner of King and George
streets, now Waters’s. That allotment was originally
known as the golden corner, from the fact that, in
1834, 25ft. 6in. brought £55 10s. per foot—an
enormous price then. Joe Wyatt, who built the Vic-
toria and Prince of Wales Theatres, gave that figure
for it. The first occupant was an auctioneer, named
Donald McLeod. Then came the Union Bank, which
remained not long, as the local directors, Flower and
Salting, removed the business close to their own
stores in Hunter-street. The Union now covers the
site of Flower and Salting’s store. Irving and Lamb,
jewellers, had the corner, followed by a well-known
city man, Henry Fisher, in wines and spirits. When
Fisher vacated, William Knight obtained the premises
and opened the Golden Fleece Inn. When he ceased
pubbing on the site, William Toogood, who owned the-
property, took up the running. Then Stephen Butts,
who had been town traveller for Tooth and Co., sold
blue ruin at the old stand, and after him came Edward
Samuels, who had previously kept the Liverpool Arms
on the S.W. corner of King and Pitt streets. In
1863 the Citv Bank was founded, and abo" 4- Hus
period the Widow Toogood married Rev. Charles
Kemp, of Newtown, and he persuaded his wife noc c.o
lease the property again for hotel purposes. The
City Bank got possession, and kept the overdraft and
the discounted bill and the cheque that was N.S.F.
there for 10 years. E. R. Cole succeeded. He car-
ried a big stock there, but many years of careful in-
attention to business produced the natural conse-
quence, and he faded out to make way for Nichol-
sons, the music people.
The late Henry Richard Nichols, of the
Hobart Mercury, was a London native. His
father lived near Buckingham Palace, and
Nicholls remembered George the Fifth’s
grandmother going to get her crown fitted
on. Nicholls, senior, went in for Socialism,
and used to entertain people like Blanc,
Kossuth, O’Connell and Owen. Nicholls
himself turned Tory, allegedly through dis-
gust at the frequency with which his father’s
pals borrowed small change. As a youngster
he lectured, and was associated with Thorn-
ton Hunt, G. H. Lewes and Whitty in writ-
ing for the London Leader —a clever sheet
with Bohemian tendencies. In ’52 he came
to Melbourne to edit the Diggers’ Advocate,
and passed on to Ballarat, where he pitched
his camp for 30 years. Fie chased flecks of
g'dd at Creswick for a time, and joined the
staff of the Ballarat Times in ’5B on a wild
and sky-towering remuneration of £5 a week.
In ’GO he was editor of the Star, and hung
on to that job until ’B3. After that, he went
down to enjoy the peace of Hobart, where
he followed Simpson on the Mercury. Last
year he w T on out for the press in a tussle
with Justice Higgins over a breach-of-privi-
lege matter. Both in Ballarat and Hobart
he always took a big share in things civic
and political. Once he stood for Ballarat
Parliamentary seat, and came within an ace
of scoring. Nicholls wrote much for the
Argus and Australasian, and his “Bush
Sermons,” over the signature of “Henricus”
(not “Henry Cuss”), hit the public hard.
He published “Politics in Verse” in ’G7. In
the fierce old Victorian political days the
daily battle between Nicholls, on the Star,
and Bateman, on the Courier, filled the
golden township with dust and joy. Nicholls
was brilliant and rapid, Bateman slow and
ponderous. Nicholls got through the other
chap’s guard with greater frequency, but
when Bateman did get a clout in, it landed
like a wheelbarrow load of quartz thrown
from a skyscraper. Bateman was supposed
to spend the whole day hammering out his
leader with a 101 b. sledge, and the exercise
left him so exhausted that he required two
dinners to keep up his strength.
“B.” writes :—-
An unusual variety of mixed marriage occurred
the other day when Dita, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Kerr, wedded Edgar, elder son of the late
Justice Cohen, president of the Sydney Synagogue
and one of the closest Jews in the community.
Rev. Hillhouse Taylor performed the ceremony, and
all creeds were represented. Jews rarely marry out-
side the Faith. There is an interesting point
about a mixed marriage wherein one of the
contracting parties is a Hebrew. The children
of the marriage, in the event of the male
parent being the Jew cannot be received into the
Jewish communion. On the other hand, if it were
the mother who chanced to be the Israelite, the off-
spring could be received, if so disposed. The whys,
wherefores, etc., of the above regulation leaves me
in a condition of mild puzzlement, as is so often the
case where religious by-laws are concerned.
NEW CURE FOR KLEPTOMANIA.
A Minneaopolis (U.S.A.) burglar underwent a
surgical operation, which, it is believed, will cure
him of kleptomania.
For years, the Sabbatarians of N. S.
Wales have been denouncing the Sydney
Agricultural Show or circus for opening on
Good Friday. Latterly, things have got so
strong in the way of clerical uproar that
Francis Suttor, who is not only a prominent
member of the Agricultural Society, but also
a buttress of the Synod which so shrewishly
berates it, has felt called on to end a situa-
tion which had much that was glaringly
anomalous about it. It was a unique oppor-
tunity to edify the community by publicly
turning down Mammon. However, Suttor
took the other line, and the Synod will know
him no more.
VICTORIAN STATE GO VERNOR
FULLER , leaving the platform after
speeching.
Archdeacon Nash, the stormy petrel of the
Anglican Church in Victoria, is apparently
going to make a new denominational nest for
himself. In farewelling his congregation
at Sale (Vic.) last week, Nash announced
that “God, in His infinite mercy, had given
him an assurance of a continued ministry in
the name of the Master he loved. He had
no knowledge of the nature of the ministry
before him, but he was going to wait quietly
until God had shown him what it would be.”
Parsons have an immense pull over laymen
in worldly business matters. A mere com-
mercial person who relinquishes his billet
would be out of a job evermore if he waited
for the Lord to tell him what to do next, but
a Nash simply prays for instructions, and
gets ’em, like a working vicar who is worried
by an offer of promotion in the same vine-
yard.


t Hi
$ -
im
jt. T i :!;•
St ?v4 /
mm
iiSS
1 Jl
8 *
mm
Sa>«V ;i «s*i
831
glam
11 1§
M
Mm
<s!mm
v a. qjmfim iwUk
m
n
: : '•> • ~
Mj
m
(§M
Sl.»
&»?>
PI
3g?WaoH2j&
Hi
I 111
a s
W-,Si
1
■
H
fe-Si!
': •
I
Hi
1m
MBBBB 2BEiliis4i i^P^b
II
H D
111
i
H
nm
vlf MM. "M
;Yy
bh
11
m
mi
fam.
wM§9?m£
/dBBBBlmS&Bgmm I
111 1
1
SW
: :; ;.- v .
MS
H
ig
■
W&v&wSwsm '
HHM
MiroiiiMM
1
\\
S.«*
SSa
WwMm#
mmmm
sin
HI
t ; I i
i-
H
8
m 1 9 Wwfflsm
m
It
m
~yyUA
mßm
i US
8 i
■
IM !c
Ji #
1
n
18
1
Hi gs 9
ill
m
im
1 .. I
Hi
n
i-i -111
■I
■ 18
ife : i-
-«| H
sssipgKis
ns
it
f«|
■Hill
11
IM
|p|||§HHi
MM
mi
m
r " Cmr ™<V™™ ai r^,
■
-V-,..
ifllll
./V ,
Hi
IT$
-®s
/If?.
r m
v rai i
; & S
1:1
: H
mil
m
m
MM I
j|||
a I
AT GOWINGS’!
Happy Customer : 44 This Austral Suit is as good as the last.
One of the Twelve Cutters : “It always is !
Order your Spring Suit early, so that you get your selection and our best attention.
N.B.— AUSTRAL SUITS to Measure at 635., 705., 755.; Hand-Made, 845., 905., 955., 105 s.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms, also General Catalogue of 120 Pages, containing everything for Mens
and Boys’ Wear ' " ' Carriage Paid throughout Australia.
GOWING BROS.,
486, 488 & 490 George Street, and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
PUMPS —STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.
465 Collins St.,
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., lormed in
Svdney, July, 1910, to take over the business of
Winchcombe, Carson and Co., Ltd., pastoral property
and products salesmen, as from April 1 of that year
(the deficit to start with consisted of goodwill less
reserves transferred from the old co.) :
Towards De-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
April 1910.. £31,729
Dec.,’1910.. £13,549 6 p.C.=£5670 £7879 23,850
June, 1911.. 6,665 6„ „ 5542 1123 22,727
Deo., 1911.. 12,062 6„ ~ 6173 6889 IM3B
June, 1912.. 5,832 6„ ~ 6173 1'. 1 ' 9
This co. will have to do very much better if it is
to live up to the form it displaced in its prospectus.
When that document was issued a trifle over two
years ago, the public was invited to come m on the
ground, amongst others, that the profits for the pre-
vious five years had averaged £20,774 p.a. Since
then the public has put in £lOO,OOO, so that the
company ought to be making at the least £jooo
a year more than it formerly showed. Hence, if
the five-year record was a reliable guide, the profit
on the extended capital for the past six months
should have been £13,137 instead of £5832. Cer-
tainly a co. in the wool-selling business may reason-
ably be expected to show somewhat smaller profits
in the January-June half of the year. But making
the most liberal allowances on that account, the
figures ar.e distinctly disappointing, and if they don t
present another aspect pretty soon it will be up to
somebody to explain the remarkable difference be-
tween expectation and realisation. 1\ ith the balance-
sheet still loaded with a goodwill paper asset of
£41,983, it is, moreover, disquieting to find that
a dividend is declared which absorbs more than
the half-year’s profit. True, again, the fact that the
Jan.-June half is probably the less remunerative of
the two has to be taken into account. Still, it
doesn’t look well for a young company with a deficit
to pay in any half-vear a dividend which adds to
that deficit. The sooner the management drops the
issue of half-yearly accounts (and probably also the
payments of interim dividends, anyway until a sub-
stantial reserve has been accumulated), the better.
When the present company was formed the old
company took payment for the business, including
goodwill, in 105,775 shares. The public greedily
took 100,000 shares, and promptly rushed the issue
to a stiff premium. For some little time only 10s.
per share was paid; subsequently the other half-
sovereign was got in, not so much to relieve the
financial position as to add to the company’s bricks
and mortar. The following comparison shows how
the principal items have shifted since the first
accounts were issued :
Dec., 1910. Dec., 1911. June, 1912.
Capital .. ..£155,725 £205,755 £205,755
Liabilities.. .. 88,385 64,459 83,099
Assets.
Premises, etc. .. 85,483 136,876 140,139
Advances, etc. .. 118,372 102,615 118,987
Goodwill .. 41,983 41,983 41,983
Other assets .. 22,074 20,057 18,722
Thus, in the 18 months, £54,656 has been put into
new premises. A good deal of this is for the ac-
commodation of a new business which the co. is
seeking to establish in Queensland. Under the best
of circumstances this couldn’t be expected to be a
very profitable investment yet; and between strike
and drought Brisbane was far from its best during
a part of the half-year. To some extent this miti-
gates the poor showing of the half-year’s accounts.
Provided that affairs are economically managed (and
no opinion can be expressed on that point because
there is no profit and loss account), the outlook
ought to be satisfactory enough. The co. has a well-
established business and a good name; and though
droughts are bound to happen in the future, as they
have happened in the past, rural products coming for-
ward for sale in Australia are practically bound to
grow in volume, even though the growth may be
erratic. A good income is, therefore, almost assured.
Whether the co. will make heavy losses as well de-
pends mainly on its success in dodging doubtful
pastoral advances.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Syd-
ney) : —■
Writ- Added Norni-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June,’o4.. £6.311 Nil £6,311 £61,336
Written off : Capital, £73,384 ; Reserves, £44,909 16,427
Dec ’04.. 6,011 6 p.c. =£5503 508 16,935
June ’O5 . 3,977 Nil £l3OB 2,669 19,604
Dec. ,’05.. 7,127 Bp.c.= 3669 3,458 23,062
June,’o6.. 6,999 8„ „ 3669 3,330 26,392
Dec., ’06.. 7,897 8,, ~ 3669 4,228 30,620
June,’o7.. 7,546 10 ~ ~ 4586 2,960 33,580
Deo , ’O7 . 6,287 6„ ~ 2752 99 3,436 37,016
June,’oB.. 5,635 6„ „ 2752 99 2,784 39,800
Dec.,’oB.. 4,996 6„ „ 2752 2,244 42,044
June,’o9.. 6,458 6„ ~ 2752 3,706 45,750
Dec.,’o9.. 4,627 6 „ 2752 1,875 47,625
June,’lo.. 12,230 12 „ „ 5504 6,726 54,351
Dec., TO.. 12,125 12 ~ „ 5504 6,621 60,972
June,’ll.. 11,449 12 „ „ 5504 5,945 66,917
Dec.,’ll.. 14,145 10 „ „ 7338 6.507 73,724
Transferred to capital, £55,038 .. 18,656
June,’l2.. 25,252 10p.c.= 8164 17,088 35,774
Things looked pretty bad for this co. in the droughty
times of 1903-4 and thereabouts, and the manage-
ment decided upon an overhaul, and a revaluation of
assets was made, and a gloomy view being taken, no
less than Bs. per share was written off the capital
to provide for the supposed depreciation. The
droughty times were followed by fat years, in the
course of which not only did this co. make big pro-
fits, but also many of the old assets recovered con-
siderably in value. Six months ago the manage-
ment, therefore, threw its gloom overboard, and the
capital was written up to the extent of 6s. per share.
The capital is now £146,768, in £1 shares, paid
up to 18s.
The profits as shown in the table have taken a
long leap in the past six months. The published
profit and loss account doesn’t, however, put quite
so much gilt on the gingerbread. It alleges that in
the half-year the co. was £14,863 to the good
“after providing for depreciation, etc.” That state-
ment and the one in the last line of the table can be ■
reconciled this way : —-
Profit, as per Profit and Loss Account . . £14,863
Added to Redemption Fund, Renewals Re-
serve, Equalisation of Dividends Reserve 10,389
Total (profit as per table) .. £25,252
The reserve funds just mentioned bulk as follows:
Redemption Fund, £20,429 ; Reserve for Renewals,
etc.. Public Risks and Contingencies, £5295; and
Reserve for Equalisation of Dividends,, £l5OO. If
the amount added to the fund for renewals, etc.,
were an allowance to cover current depreciation, it
would not, Of course, be a true reserve, and the
amount added to the fund would not be true profit.
But it is highly probable that a large amount has
been provided for depreciation in other ways. Thus,
six months ago “Freeholds, leaseholds, plant, pro-
perty, etc.,” stood in the books at £114,123, where-
as now, in spite of probable additions, they stand at
only £111,338. A similar highly satisfactory result
can be got by reviewing the accounts for a series of
years: —
June, ’O4. Dec., ’ll. June, ’l2.
Liquid assets ..£42,267 £78,761 £100,755
Liabilities .. 31,188 20,091 21,386
Surplus ..£11,079 £58,670 £79,369
Thus, in eight years the co. has (1) paid a div.
averaging 8 p.c. ; (2) provided for all additions to
plant and property, and (3) put by a handy little
£68,290. In the past six months the figures are
more remarkable still. After paying the fine divi-
dend for the previous half-year, and making any
additions there may have been to plant and property,
there is £20,699 more in the till than there was on
December 31. These excellent liquid belongings
consist of cash and deposits, £43,377 ; public securi-
ties, £18,782; stock and book debts, £38,596, less
liabilities (sundry creditors), £21,386. If the co.
could go on doing that sort of thing indefinitely, it
would be one of the sweetest things in the invest-
ment market. It looks pretty good in any case, but
one or two things have to be taken into account: (1)
It is in the cooked-victual business, and in times of
prosperity, when the public is inclined to hang the
expense, the cooked-victual business naturally booms;
(2) the co. does a big ice trade, and nobody knows
how long the “honorable understanding” in the ice
trade will last; (3) the refrigerating and cool stor-
age business has already probably slumped badly on
account of the shortage of meat supplies for export.
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1993 . £1393 3 p c. = £l5OO £39,665
June, 1904.. 691 24,, ~ 1250 £6O 39,046
Dec., 1904.. 2412 24 ~ ~ 1250 1 40,207
June, 1905.. 436 24 „ ~ 1250 39,393
Dec., 1905.. 3615 24 ~ ~ 1250 41,758
June, 1906.. 1143 24,, „ 1250 41,651
Deo., 1906.. 6515 5 ~ ~ 2500 45,666
June, 1907.. 2189 5 ~ ~ 2500 45,355
Dec., 1907.. 6863 5 ~ ~ 2500 49,718
June, 1908.. 2812 5 „ ~ 2500 50,030
Dec., 1908.. 4700 5 ~ ~ 2500 62,230
June, 1909.. 1321 5 ~ ~ 2500 51,051
Dec., 1909.. 5431 5 ~ ~ 2500 53,982
June, 1910.. 1797 5 ~ ~ 2500 53,279
Dec., 1910.. 6808 5 ~ ~ 2500 57,587
June, 1911.. 2049 5 ~ ~ 2500 57,136
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital .. 32,136
Dec., 1911.. 7676 5 p.c.= 3125 36,687
June, 1912. .y 2385 5 „ „ 3125 35,947
The paid capital is £125,000, in fully-paid £5 shares,
the last £ 1 having been transferred from reserves
a little under 12 months ago. This latter action
was an unexampled piece of modern finance on the
directors’ part. Previously they had shown no dispo-
sition to be over-generous to the shareholders. When
one of the frequent droughts of those parts looked
in, and revenue slumped, the invariable rule was to
pull down the dividend promptly. In consequence
the company has been gradually put into a stronger
financial position; and as any additions made to
plant, etc., have been charged to revenue, the growth
of reserves has really meant the extinction of liabili-
ties. This shows the movement in 10 years:—-
1902. 1912.
Liquid assets .. .. £9,536 £22,707
Liabilities .. .. .. 31,426 21,306
Excess liabilities .. .. £21,890
Excess assets .. .. £1,401
Of the present liabilities, £20,000 is represented by
debentures. The co.’s line, which is really an exten-
sion of the Victorian system, serves an unprogressive
district, which is, for the present, regarded as a bit
too much on the dry side to be suitable as a rule for
close settlement, and the prospects of any gorgeous
increase in traffic and profits are dull. Nevertheless,
the co. is in as good a position to pay (say) 5 p.c.
on the £125,000 as it was to give the same amount
on the unwatered £lOO,OOO 10 or 12 years ago.
* * * *
The spectre of the Standard Bank —a
Melbourne boom-time creation, which lived only a
year _ or two—was trotted out last week before a
meeting of creditors, and the chairman nearly ven-
tured to jeer at the time-dishonored ghost. The
Standard, he said, had a paid-up capital of £366,391
when its first meeting of shareholders happened, 19J
years ago, and since then the shareholders had paid
£190,898 in calls. Every penny of that £577,000
had “disappeared,” which “showed apparent negligent
management,” and justified the rude remark that the
bank’s short life had been “almost disreputable.”
Had the disappeared capital been larger, and the
assets absolut'dv nil. the Standard, seemingly, might
have been said to have led a “quite disreputable”
* * * *
The Brisbane Gas Co. :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £11,634 11|p.c. = £8,452 £3182 £31,966
June, 1905.. 10,309 11* ~ „ 8,452 1857 33,823
£20,000 of reserves transferred to capital .. 13,823
Dec., 1905.. 10,898 10 p.c. = 8,400 2498 16,321
June, 1906.. 10,768 10 „ „ 8,400 2368 18,689
Dec., 1906.. 11,227 10 ~ „ 8,400 2827 21,516
June, 1907.. 11,223 10 „ „ 8,400 2823 24,339
Dec., 1907.. 12,011 11 „ „ 9,240 2771 27,110
June, 1908.. 12,253 11 ~ „ 9,240 3013 3",123
Dec., 1908.. 13,032 11 „ „ 9,240 3792 33,915
June, 1909.. 13,800 12 ~ ~ 10,080 3720 37,635
Dec., 1909.. 15,345 12 „ „ 10,080 5265 42,900
June, 1910.. 13,453 12 ~ „ 10,080 3373 46,273
Land sale profits .. .. 2400 48,673
Dec., 1910.. 16,533 15 p.c.= 12,600 3933 52,606
Land sale profits .. .. 2700 55,306
June, 1911.. 15,694 16J p.c. = 12,915 2779 58,085
Dec., 1911.. 18,914 12 „ „ 10,080 8834 66,919
June, 1912.. 14,561 12 „ ~ 10,080 4481 71,400
For a good many years this old-established co. had a
diminutive paid capital of £140,000. Then it added
£20,000 to that, making the shareholders a present
of it out of reserves. This small addition, of course,
absorbed a trifle more of the profits, but still there
seems to have been some difficulty in getting rid
of them without exciting hostile remarks. Partly,
perhaps, on this account, shareholders have just au-
thorised a capital of £300,000 in place of the old
£160,000. Some portion of this extra £140,000
will be got in at once; alreadv, in fact, the co. has
been rusned with £15,933 “deposits, applications for
shares.” Whether the whole of the £140,000 will
be called for in cash, or whether some part of it
will be provided out of reserves, remains to be seen.
When a gas company builds up its capital out of
reserves it simply means that the people who pay
for the gas provide the works as well, and then go
on paying interest to somebody else on the cap Lai
that they themselves have supplied. It is a beautiful
scheme for the shareholder, but from the public’s
point of view hasn’t much to recommend it. The
fool public which supplies the works might almost
as well hang on to the proceeds; but in Queensland
they call this Socialism in our time, or some other
absurd tiger. The next small table shows seven
years’ results, looked at from another corner:—
June, 1905. June, 1912.
Liquid assets .. .. £46,721 £61,190
Liabilities . . .. 3,716 22,081
Surplus .. .. £43,005 £39,109
Thus, since June, 1905, the co. has (1) paid a divi-
dend averaging 12 p.c. out of the public necessity
which it supplies; (2) has provided for all additions
and extensions of plant, mains, etc., and (3) has
meantime drawn on liquid assets to the extent of
only £3896. As at June, 1905, the revenue from
gas sales, etc., for the six months was £20,966;
for the past half-year the total was £33,959. This
means that the company has added about two-thirds
to its revenue and current profits have supplied the
whole of the money necessary to carry out the works
incidental to this increase —all anyway except £3896.
It is a remarkably fine record, and the prudent gas
shareholder is bound to consider whether it is likely
that similar conditions and results will be allowed
to continue. #
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N. S.
Wales) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
Dec., 1903.. £9,566 '2O p.c. = £lO,OOO £52,742
June, 1904.. 4,009 15 ~ ~ 7.500 -- 49.251
Dec., 1904.. 5,003 10 „,, 5,000 £3 49,254
June, 1905.. 5,0 7 10 ~ ~ 5,000 27 49,281
Dec., 1905.. 3,759 10 „ „ 5,000 48,040
June, 1906.. 5,093 10 „ „ 5,000 93 48,133
Dec., 1906.. 5,273 10 ~ „ 5,000 273 48,406
June. 1907.. 10,567 15 „,, 7.500 3i 67 51,4/3
Dec.,'1907.. 10,097 20 „,, 10,000 97 51,070
June, 1908.. 10,013 20 „,, 10,000 13 51,583
Dec., 1908.. 10,431 20 ~ ~ 10,000 431 52,014
June, 1909.. 10,370 20 „>, 10,000 370 52,384
Dec., 1909.. 4,090 10 „,, 5,000 51,474
June, 1910.. 5,115 10 ~ ~ 5.000 115 51,589
Dec., 1910.. 10,562 20 „ ~ 10,000 562 52,151
June, 1911.. 4,163 10 „ „ 5,000 51,314
Dec., 1911.. 5,694 10 „ „ 5,000 694 52,008
June, 1912.. 6,329 10 „ „ 6,000 329 52,337
This is one of the ancient institutions of Newcastle —-
how ancient may be partly judged from the fact
that old Alexander Ross, the colliery manager who
retired last year, had been digging out coal for the
company for very little short oi half a century. The
coal that Alexander Ross dug out isn’t there to dig
out again; and the accounts never make it clear
whether anything has been written off the book
value of the property to counterbalance this extrac-
tion of coal. A coal-mine is a wasting asset; what
is a mine to-day is a valueless black hole to-morrow.
Consequently, if the mine represents £50,000 of
capital at the start, a fund should be built up out
of revenue, so that the entire 50,000 might be
replaced during the lifetime of the property. If
such a fund is not created, it simply means that the
shareholders eat up their own capital, and more or
less of what they regarded as profit is not profit at
all. It is impossible to say whether this company
writes off anything, or in any way provides for the
redemption of capital; and that means almost as
plainly as one can say it, that as a guide to the in-
vestor the published accounts are nearly valueless.
For what it is worth this gives a quick glance at
the past 10 years:—
June, 1902. June, 1912.
Liabilities .. .. £3,465 £2,589
Mining and fixed property 83,083 98,905
Liquid assets .. .. 94,246 65,036
So liquid assets have been drawn upon to the extent
of £29,210. It doesn’t follow, of course, that
this money has been drained away in order to-" pay
dividends; it is more likely that it has gone into
the purchase of new mining property. At the same
time, it is worth noting that the purchases haven’t
apparently added to the profits. Reputedly Wallsend
is a safe, conservative old concern, which wants to
have a future as well as a past, and it has a very
good, though erratic, record of dividends paid; but
the accounts enable one to say nothing less misty
than that.
* * * *
Walker’s, Limited, engine-builders, etc.,
(Maryborough, Q.) :■ — >
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1899.. £2,003 5 p.c. = £3344 £4,732
1900.. 4,126 5 ~ ~ 3344 5,514
1901.. 6,113 5 „ „ 3363 8,264
1902.. 1,629 Nil £2OOO 7,893
1903.. 1,485 Nil 9,378
1904.. 1,523 Nil 10,901
1905.. 1,428 Nil 4600 7,729
1906.. —2,182 Nil 6500 3,411
1907.. 2,593 Nil 2500 3,504
1908.. 3,288 3 p.Cv= 2026 2000 2,766
1909.. 7,248 5 „ „ 3376 2500 4,138
1910.. 11,144 7 „ ~ 4726 3000 7,556
1911.. 22,125 9 ~ „ 7291 3000 19,390
1912.. 25,454 10 ~ ~ 8340 3000 33,504
Premier Denham is borrowing hard, and a good deal
of the rest of Queensland is following suit. One of
the northern State’s proudest boasts relates to the
mileage of new railways in hand, and the rolling-
stock on the older lines is being added to as well.
Years ago, Walkers, Ltd., started to build up a
reputation for its locomotive workshops, and natur-
ally, in the glut of work, orders have been flowing
in upon it for just as much as ever it could do. As
usual, when the people have the handling of bor-
rowed money, the States haven’t looked too hard at
the sordid matter of cost; consequently, notwith-
standing the general rise in wages, this co., during
the last two or three years, has been able to show a
profit which, a while back, would have made it dance
in such a frenzy of delight that it would have been
suspected of being a Yankee missionary with a good
collection-plate under his eye. For the last 12 years,
under the old Queensland State tariff, the co. paid
an average of less than 3-) p.c. ; and for the first 10
years under the Commonwealth the return was very
little more than 2j- p.c. It, therefore, deserves all
the 10 per cents, that it is likely to get for a few
years to come. It seems to have a suspicion that it
may not get very many ; anyway, 3 p.c. of the pre-
sent distribution goes out as a special bonus. This
is all of a piece with the management’s prudent
policy. When it hadn’t enough to pay a dividend as
well "as provide for depreciation, it was the dividend
that was cut out. One result is that the co. now
has £73,354 of liquid assets in excess of liabilities
—admirable figures, seeing that the paid capital
is only £81,375. . By thus keeping its till well
supplied with cash, it has been in a position to buy
the most modern machine tools as they have come
on the market, and has also been able to finance its
jobs to the best advantage.
* * * *
The Chillagoe Co., which owns mines and
railways in North Queensland:—
Written To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1906.. £10,498 Nil £9,965 £533 £533
1907.. 55,201 Nil 49,051 6,150 6,683
Premiums on new shares .. 14,750 21,433
f 33,091 Nil 30,620 2,4711
1908.. -! Written off new share > 23,899
l premiums .... 5 /
1909.. 63,679 Nil 49,563 14,116 38.015
1910.. 56.775 Nil 56,017 758 38,773
1911.. 66,206 Nil 55,373 10,833 49,606
Loss.
1912.. 19,223 Nil 13,367 17,016
For nearly 20 years the more or less patient ass of
a public has been carrying this concern on its back,
urged ever onward by a seductive bunch of vege-
tables dangled in front of its whiskers. Again and
again the poor brute has stumbled, and in the past
year another inch or two of hide has been chipped
but of its knees. The following is the record of the
mournful procession brought up to date: —
Chillagoe Proprietary, 1893. —Capital, £960,000,
in £2OO shares.
Chillagoe Railway and Mines, 1898. —Money
wanted. Shares split up; old co. got 480,000 £2
shares for its interest, and another 120,000 for £l.
Ditto, first reconstruction, 1899. —More money
wanted. Shares reduced to £l, in order to en-
courage a debenture issue ( £400,000).
New Chillagoe Railway and Mines, 1902.-—More
money wanted. Share for share issued, but the new
share made liable for 3s. Debenture issue by this
time, £498,300, at 6 p.c.
Chillagoe Co., Ltd., 1905. —More money wanted.
Numerous shares had been forfeited, but 688,983
were left. These offered to old shareholders at Is.
with Is. 6d. liability, on payment of which they
would be fully paid to 10s. Another 1017 shares
offered for subscription; and 10,000 given to the
Tolhurst-Keats broker-people for bullocking the
thing through. Total shares, 700.000 of 10s. Things
also re-arranged with debenture-holders.
Ditto, 1906. —More money wanted. Debenture-
hold'rs agreed to put up some more, provided the
sharenolders put up another £150,000 in 300,000
shares. Now there are 1,000,000 shares, of which
15,000 are fully paid to 10s. ; most of the others
are liable for another Is. Etheridge railway con-
structed on a Government guarantee of 2| p.c. up
to £450,000. Total cost of line, £469,927, of
which £225,000 was raised on special debentures-.
The ordinary debentures total a. 573,300; other
liabilities, £86,544,
Ditto, 1912.—Local mines having failed, Co. de-
cided to buy the Einasleigh for 175,000 shares, paid
to 9s. In consequence of other troubles directors
decided to call up Is. on the old 985,000 shares; 6d.
got in during the year.
It isn’t safe for a man with rheumatism to wander
through the past year’s report without goloshes, so
moist is it with Chairman Reid’s tears. Every
blessed thing went wrong, and, of course, none Of the
misadventures could be foreseen. Almost the last
hope among the co.’s local mines was Zillmanton.
Here a big body of ore, estimated iit 6 p.C, Copper,
had been developed, and the waiting furnaces vvere
hungry for it. But the mine was hooded, and when
the small sea had been pumped Out the distressful
management discovered that it had also pumped out
half the metal. It might haVe reached the Ore body
at a deeper level, but the Co. Couldn’t stand the bash
expense of a new shaft, so it looked found for somfe-
thing that it could buy with paper. . As mentioned
above, it secured the Einasleigh. That, briefly, is
the story Of one tribulation. There are two others
of a large size. A disastrous fire occurred at the
reduction works, and torrential rains caused wash-
aways, which held up the traffic for weeks and
demoralised it for months.
The co. has four principal assets. Chillagoe mines
and works, a very nominal £315,363; Einasleigh
mine and works, £112,458 ; Chillagoe railway,
£334,261 ; Etheridge railway (constructed under
Government guarantee), £463,521. During the year
the Government took over the working of the Ether-
idge line, and the profit and loss account shows
“Bonus —21 p.c. on cost (up to £450,000) of Ether-
idge railway, £2419.” The first table printed above
shows a loss of £19,223 on the year’s trading, ex-
clusive of a probably inadequate £13,367 written
off against depreciation. This result is arrived at
as follows: —
Chillagoe railway . . . . £45,323
Etheridge railway.. .. .. 2,419
Cairns wharf . . . . . . 325
-£48,067
Less Mine and Reduction Works loss .. 27,446
Net profit on working .. .. £20,621
Less Debenture interest . . . . £29,228
~ Other interest.. .. .. 1,715
„ Management exes. . . . . 8,901
39,844
Net loss, as per table .. .. £19,223
The only big asset which shows up satisfactorily is
the Chillagoe railway. But even that gave a much
poorer result than in the previous year. The next
small compilation throws some light on this item: —
Expen- Balance
Dee., Receipts, diture. over Exes.
1903 .. ..£60,300 £26,071 £34,229
1904 . . . . 50,112 21,927 28,185
1905 . . . . 63,871 23,753 40,118
March,
1906 (3 mos.) .. 14,503 5,777 8,726
1907 . . . . 87,628 26,475 61,153
1908 .. ..114,840 36,847 77,993
1909 . . . . 105,038 37,125 67,913
1910 .. .. 82,639 22,186 60,453
1911 . . . . 87,843 25,085 62,758
1912 . . . . 73,499 28,176 45,323
The capital represented by this line is £334,261.
The surplus of revenue over working expenses is
equal to 13 p.c. on the capital cost of the line. But,
unfortunately, the mines show a heavy loss on
working, so the profit on the railway is, as usual, all
mopped up by interest and other charges. Through-
out its career the company has consistently failed to
pay a dividend, and there is precious little prospect
of any in the future. Certainly, the Mulligan coal
deposits, 26 miles Or so from the line, have developed
fairly well, but there is very little chance of an
export trade, and even if the Government connects
up the coal field with the co.’s railway, the best that
can be looked for is a saving in the fuel bill —im-
portant, but not important enough to put anything
in the shareholders’ pockets. If the Etheridge and
the country beyond it should produce something
much better than is at present visible, the outlook
would change. No big Australian company needs a
change worse.
* * * *
Somewhere about the beginning of this
century the Chillagoe Co., in one of its spasms of
distress, floated off the Mungana (Chillagoe) Mining
Co. It was a chip off the old block ; that is to say,
it never got within gunshot of a dividend. Also,
true to its parentage, it has the reconstruction habit.
At odd times it has turned out a fair quantity of ore,
but, never having any treatment plant of its own, it
has had to depend on Chillagoe for a market, and
the biggest bite out of the proceeds has gone in
freight and treatment charges. The losses have,
moreover, been consistently large, owing to the gen-
erally_ mixed character of the ore. Twelve months
ago it showed a profit on working account of
£19,170, and its surplus of liquid assets at the time
was £17,497. With a rising metal market it
looked then as though there might be an occasional
dividend in the future. Things, however, soon began
to go wrong. There are two principal shows, the
Lady Jane and the Girofla. The one is troubled by
fire, the other by water, and, between the two, the
co. fell into the soup during the year to the extent
of £11,845 on working account. Add management
exes, and depreciation, and the year’s loss works out
at £16,093. Furthermore, over £2OOO had to be
spent on plant, so, by March 31, the supplies of liquid
assets had been reduced to £1791. With no imme-
diate prospect of paying its way, in consequence of
the extremely unsatisfactory condition of both mines,
there was no alternative but to reconstruct. The
new co. is the Mungana Mining Co., Ltd., and this
paper wouldn’t like to risk a month’s meals on a
wager that the new capital ( £25,000) will suffice to
carry the resurrected Lazarus to the dividend stage.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart.
Tas.):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1904.. £3920 6p.c. = £3402 £5lB £5,823
June, 1905.. 4606 6 „ „ 3402 1204 7,027
Dec., 1905., 3472 6 ~ ~ 3402 70 7,097
June, 1906.. 4266 6 ~ ~ 3402 864 7,961
Dec., 1906.. 3497 6 „ ~ 3402 95 8,056
June, 1907.. 4734 6 ~ ~ 3402 1332 9,388
Dec., 1907.. 3637 6 „ „ 3402 235 9,623
June, 1908.. 4698 6 „ ~ 3402 1296 10,919
Dec., 1908.. 3298 6 „ ~ 8402 10,815
June, 1909.. 3823 6 „ ~ 3402 421 11,236
D c., 1909.. 3092 6 „ „ 3442 10,886
June, 1910.. 4871 6 „ ~ 3442 1429 12,315
Dec., 1910.. 7135 6 ~ ~ 3402 3733 16,048
June, 1911.. 3190 6 „ ~ 3402 15,836
Dec., 1911.. 4064 6„ „ 3402 662 16,498
June, 1912.. 3444 6 ~ „ 3402 42 16,540
This co. is partly a brewing concern and partly a
big landlord. Besides the usual pubs, it holds a big
slice of the slopes of Mount Wellington, surrounding
its beer mill. Unfortunately, it doesn’t distinguish
between its pubs, its brewery and its landed estate.
Also, though it is understood to be selling land, its
profits from that source are not distinguished from
those drawn through the beer-pumps; and that is
an unsatisfactory feature of the case. The capital is
£lOB,OOO, and as freeholds and other fixed assets
represent £181,871 ; hence, as the reserves amount
to only £16,540, it follows that the co. is , carrying
a heavy load of debt. The following table shows how


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
Hon R. J. BLACK,
M L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th dune, 1912 £9,258,750 10 7
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
REGULAR ACCOUNTS FIXED AND LOW
CHARGES. ABSOLUTE SECURITY.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from 4\ per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION QAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney;
McCLEW & CO., Adelaide ; MALLOCH BROS., Perth
-4-GF4- MALLEABLE PIPE FIT'L'INGS.— Ask the
man who actually uses Tabes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+ GF-f Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
WATER LEVELS. —Many painful accidents .have
occurred through fracture of water gauge glasses on
steam boilers, and various devices to prevent injury
to boiler attendants have been adopted. These;
however, are more or less objectionable, because
the clear view of the water-level is thereby ob-
scured. At last a practically unbreakable Gauge
Glass has been invented, namely, “BISHOP’S ADA-
MANT,” which will resist considerable pressure as
well as high and varying temperature. To be ob-
tained from Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., Engineers’ Factors,
315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
A simple and continuous Vacuum Slimes Filter is
the “Wilfley.” It consists of a revolving drum,
which is partly submerged in the material to be
filtered. The drum, covered with filter-cloth, has a
vacuum pipe passing through it, by means of which
liquid and air are withdrawn by a vacuum pump.
The filtered slime is removed by a simplet apparatus,
placed at or below the level of the pulp. Directly
the cake is removed the filter-cloth is re-immersed,
ready to receive a fresh cake. The residual liquid
in the slime cake is removed by distributing. water
over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing to
the fact that the filter is circular in form, the work
is being done continuously during the whole revolu-
tion of the drum. The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd.,
of Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights of
this machine.* [4
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,
1911 : “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the directors ;
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
The essential features of a satisfactory pipe; line
are capacity, durability, economy and adaptability.
PIONEER WOOD PIPE fills the bill. It is manu-
factured by The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, N.S.W. ; and Footscray, Vic.*
Why is it that such people as the Murrumbidgee
Milling Company, Clyde Brick Works, railways, pub-
lic works, etc., are spending thousands of pounds in
installing Wolf Superheated Steam Engines in their
works? Because these plants are absolutely the last
word in power economy. Refer to page 39.*^
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.* l 2
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Com,ison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers. Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
■w * *
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting 1 Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
things have moved in that and other respects since
the writing down of 1903: —
Liabilities.
June, ’O2. Dec., ’ll. June, ’l2.
Mortgages and fixed
deposits .. .. £84,507 £90,402 £91,405
Overdrafts, etc. . . 22,040 25,100 33,242
Assets.
Freeholds, hotels, pre-
mises, etc... .. 170,013 178,576 181,871
Stock and plant .. 37,955 34,725 42,875
Book debts and ad-
vances .. .. 13,829 30,706 28,529
Costs and liquid assets 142 47 70
The total liabilities are thus £124,647, which is
practically the same as the capital and reserves com-
bined. On the great bulk of this money the com-
pany is paying interest, and on that part of it which
is represented by the Cascade estate, little or nothing
is . being earned. This, no doubt, accounts for the
comparatively poor profits shown in the first table,
notwithstanding that these are times when the Com-
monwealth has an extra amount of money to pour
down its throat. Beyond that, little can be said re-
garding the co., its position and its prospects,
because of its bad habit of lumping its accounts.
And the man who invests in this security without
knowing more than the published document tells
him is in the same position as he would be if he put
his lips to the spigot, and trusted to luck to send
him beer instead of kerosene.
F.H.R.: We never give tips to investors.
If you will read the latest reports in the Wild Cat
page on these concerns, you will see as much of an
opinion upon them as we care to hazard in this
uncertain world.
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), which began with a deficit of £273, repre-
senting preliminary exes. :
Dividends.
, -*■ Written Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. Off. serves.
1908.. £2282 7 p.c. = £224 lOp.c. =£9s £437 £1251
1909.. 1612 7,, ~1190 3 h„ ~175 174 1324
1910.. 2559 7 „ ~1190 10 „ ~500 269 1924
1911.. 2678 7k „ ~1275 10J „ ~525 412 2390
Premiums on new shares, £BOO .. 3190
1912.. 5019 9 p.c. = 2201 999 5009
Some changes in the capital have taken place during
the year. When the co. was formed in 1907, £17,000
was subscribed by the public in 7 p.c. cumulative
preference shares, and 5000 ordinaries went to the
old proprietary company. After the ordinaries had
got 10 p.c., prefs. were entitled to share in any
further distribution. During the past year all
shares have been put on the same footing, and
another £BOOO have been issued at a premium of
2s. 6d. The present capital is, therefore, £30,000,
and there is another £lO,OOO authorised, but un-
issued. Though the old company had a lucrative
business to dispose of, the new one began with a
clean balance-sheet, goodwill being conspicuously
absent. Trade was good right from the start, and it
looks as though it has been steadily getting better,
largely, no doubt, because Australia is gradually find-
ing out that it can make as good headgear for itself
as any Italian, Austrian or other foreign person.
The tariff, moreover, has on the whole treated the
industry pretty well: it is some advantage, no doubt,
to have a man who has been through the whole felt-
hat trade in the pretty constant job of Minister for
Customs. The principal trouble of the trade seems,
indeed, to be industrial. The felt hatters form a
pretty close corporation, and, in Victoria at any
rate, the mills have usually been limited to one
apprentice for every seven operatives. This would
just about suffice to satisfy a torpid trade, provided
every journeyman hatter was guaranteed to do 40
years’ work before he pegged out. It provides far
too few new tradesmen to satisfy the demands of a
growing industry. The natural result has been very
keen competition for experienced workmen, and conse-
quent high earnings, wherefore, though the tariff has
looked substantial, it has not in all lines been suffi-
cient to shut out foreign competition. Fortunately
for this and other cos. in the business, Australia has
not found it necessary to look hard at an extra
shilling or so for a hat; when times change, condi-
tions will have to readjust themselves, or this and
other companies will inevitably be hurt.
The co.’s financial position is much easier now than
it was 12 months ago. Just before the balance in
1911, one or two big contracts had been entered into,
and the co., besides adding to its plant, had been
obliged to accumulate considerable stocks. All this
necessitated an overdraft, and other liabilities total-
ling £19,024. Since then £BBOO of capital and
premiums has been got in, and iri that way, and by
the reduction of stocks and one or two other items,
the burden on the co.’s shoulders has been reduced to
£1405. Plant and other wasting assets appear to
be prudently written down and altogether the docu-
ments leave" a very pleasant taste in the mouth.
From Meekatbarra (W.A.) : Fenian, with
a production of £301,898 up to the end of June,
has announced the record output of £9340 for July.
Deepest workings so far are at 525 ft., and the ore
in sight above that level is estimated at 80,578 tons,
worth £273.448. Next door, the Ingliston Con-
sols Extended is giving good returns and paying
small, but regular, dividends. With a bigger plant
it could, however, make a much better showing.
Returns are expected to shortly improve at the
neighboring Ingliston Extended. Operations have
lately been impeded by a heavy inflow of water m
the bottom level at 425 ft., but this obstacle has now
been overcome. When the plants on the Queen of
'the Hills, Kyarra and Globe get going the monthly
gold output from the field is certain to show a big
increase, and were capital more plentiful for the
development and equipment of other likely shows, it
would expand a good deal more still.
Five mines carry the fortunes of Yilgarn
<W.A.). Great Victoria: Now being sampVd on behalf
of Lionel Robinson and others, in the hope that it
will not belie its local reputation as a “big thing,
and that results will enable it to be sold later at a
thumping profit to the Great Boulder, or some other
co. with money to burn and great need for a new
lease of life. ' Mountain Queen: New treatment
plant “should be completed in November,” when the
gold output is “expected” to be doubled. Bull-
finch Proprietary: Notwithstanding the “great deal
of work already done and the large staff employed,”
ore treatment, the local paper naively states, “may
not start for some months to come.” Meantime, the
public is being handicapped in its efforts to secure
reliable information by the publication of the state-
ment that large profits and big dividends are likely
to be earned when gold production is started. Marvel
Loch: Good extraction is being obtained by amalga-
tion and concentration. Corinthian North: Sinking
a new shaft and threatens to give a good account of
itself later on. # *
Associated Northern (W.A.) is putting
the finishing touches to the treatment plant on its
new show at Ora Banda. Nearly 2 ? 0 >° 00
245. 6d. ore are reported to be in sight above th
No. 3 level, and after chipping off the cost of mine
and mill, the sum available for dividends was esti
mated a few months ago at £50,000.
computation was made, a new lode has been located
near the surface, and other reserves have been opened
up . # * *
Cheerful and candid expression of opinion
regarding the future of Chaffers (W.A.), by e
mine manager: “Our co. has been waiting for nearly
14 years for the Golden Horseshoe co. to prospect
the'ground south of their No. 2 shaft towards our
boundary, and now that they have started to do
this, it is gratifying to learn that the lode has a
tendency to pitch south. They have not yet P r °ved
that their No. 3 lode pitches south, but it is the
opinion of some that it is doing so, and if it should
pitch to the south as quickly as the No. 2 lode is
doing, then the crosscut at our No. 16 level, which
we are now extending, should intersect the Horse-
shoe No. 3 lode firstly and No. 2 lode secondly.
The distance estimated to cut the 2 lode is
300 ft. from the present face of the crosscut. lhe
apparent pitch of the Horseshoe No. 2 lode from
800 ft. to 1200 ft. level, if maintained, would give
us 200 ft. length of lode at our No. 16 level. Apart
from the unlikelihood of what the manager hazards
upon turning up trumps, there is also an idea pre-
vailing that 1600 ft. is not quite deep enough to
get anything worth having. * #
Menzies’ Consolidated (W.A) admits
three things: (1) That it is British owned; (2) that
it has been in existence since 1898 ; (3) that it nas
never paid a dividend. A profit of £823 was, how-
ever made in July, after deducting all expenditure.
Main shaft is down 1400 ft., and the shoot has been
proved at that point to have a length of 475 ft., and
to assay 9ldwt. for an average width of 45m-
In the 'last three years profits have been sunk in
shaft-sinking and plant. Ore reserves were esti-
mated some months back at 90,000 tons. Co. still
has hopes of earning a little for shareholders.
Some venturesome persons in London
threaten to resurrect the old Santa Claus at Randells
(W.A.)- Several attempts have been made in the
past to work this show at a profit, but all failed,
and spelt ruin in big letters to those who tried. It
is a very bad mine to handle. The ore contains
arsenic, the gold occurrences are irregular, and a
lot of crosscutting and driving is needed to cut
through and open up the formation which contains
the payable veins. The prospect of it ever being
worked at a profit by a co. seems hopeless.*
Zoroastrian, at Bardoc (W.A.), is again
being worked. Acquired 12 years ago by a Bonuou
co., it yielded £27,000 worth of gold; but as every
stiver of this, as well as the whole of the capital
subscribed, vanished in equipment, development and
office expenses, reconstruction followed. r lhe new
co tried hard to make a do of things, but failed,
after spending £15,000. The show was then aban-
doned, and remained in that condition until re-
cently, when a party of working miners came along,
and after doing some work have decided to erect a
small mill. There may be some pickings in the
mine for a few, but Lord help the co. which may be
induced to take it on.
* * * *
Last week the Vegetable Creek tin mine
(N.S.W.) produced 3 tons Bcwt. of tin oxide. The
reports from this show are becoming more cheerful.
At the eastern end of the workings a new section has
been opened up from the Rock shaft, and 2ft. of
wash is showing, worth 1201 b. per cub. yard. From
.Chandler’s shaft the leading drive was advanced
sft. ; the washdirt averaged 30in., worth 1401 b. per
cub. yard. There are 130,000 shares.
The Golden Mile Hill End, Ltd., is to be
formed, with a capital of £50,000, in 2s. shares,
300,000 of which are to go to the public. The pro-
perty to be acquired is 56 acres, comprising a num-
ber of small claims at Hill End (N.S.W.), picked
up by the vendor syndicate, from which the new co.
takes its name. The purchase price is £20,000, in
shares, which leaves a working capital of £30,000.
The amalgamated claims extend for about a mile
along the north and south line of reefs, and are
bounded to the south by the Hawkins Hill Reward,
Rowley’s Reef and Amalgamated Hill End. To the
north' is the Golden Gully Tambaroora Sluicing.
The deepest work done is at 320 ft., but the whole of
the property has been worked down to water-level
at 200 ft., with good results. The question that
affects Hill End as a whole is not what has been,
but what lies between the levels where the oxidised
ore came from. It is expected that the unwatering
level being driven by the neighboring Reward will,
after it cuts the Robert Emmett cross-course, drain
the Golden Mile to about 400 ft., and enable the latter
to gouge out a bit of ore at a fairly cheap rate, to
that depth. But the co. professes not to be content
with that; it wants to find out what the deep levels
will reveal. Lively expectations are based on the
assumption that the formations are saddle reefs, and
with that idea a fair amount of ground has also been
applied for on either side of the main line hitherto
worked. The prospectus gives a bit of early Aus-
tralian mining history anent one or two of the
claims. The Sargents Reef, situated about the centre
of the property, is said to have been the first reef
worked in Australia. Operations started shortly after
the historic discovery of gold by Hargraves, in the
alluvial at Lewis Ponds and Summerhill Creeks,
Ophir. The first ton from the reef is said to have
yielded 1000 oz., and a small portion of oxidised ore
’£60,000. That was long ago, and the story might
have grown since then. The reef was to have had
the first battery brought to this country, but before
this arrived the mine was considered to be worked
out, and was abandoned for some years.
J. O. Armstrong returns to Lloyd’s mine
at Burraga (N.S.W.), which has been resting until
the copper market felt better. It is a tough propo-
sition, but English mining companies have this
virtue at least, they pay their managers well. John
Tilley, who has been breaking his heart at Vegetable
Creek, trying to pay dividends to shareholders and a
stiff rovalty to the ground landlord at the same
time, succeeds Armstrong at the Grafton Copper
Mine. Next to Great Cobar he has the most con-
sistent copper producer in the State to handle. W.
H. Corbould, whom Armstrong originally succeeded
at Lloyd’s, and who has lately been working wonders
at the' Elliott (Q.), left for England last week. He
will not return to the mine, but will keep an eye on
things from Sydney. H. C. Bellinger, of Great
Cobar, also takes a spell, but has no intention of
quitting for good. * #
The lodide syndicate is in 1800 shares of
£lO each, £2 paid. It holds one-fourth interest in
an option over the Mineral Hill mine (No. 2 Bobadah
lease), comprising two blocks of 40 acres each, sit-
uated 42 miles from Condobolin (N.S.W.). There
are two lodes, one being on a copper formation and
the other showing lead carbonates, assaying well
for lead and silver. A shaft was sunk on the silver-
lead ore, which cut the lode at 25ft., and is down
92ft. from the surface. Shaft sinking and winzing
have proved carbonate ore for some 30ft. in depth,
and returns from Cockle Creek are reported to be
satisfactory. The country orf which these copper
and lead lodes are being developed is quartzite and
sandstone, traversed by jasperoid bars, one of which
divides the copper from the lead formation. 1 hese
metals are often associated. For instance, Block lu
(Broken Hill), in the days of its youth, produced
some high-grade copper ore. * #
The Mungana co. (Chillagoe, Q.) is flood-
ing the old Lady Jane workings to put out a tire
that has been burning for some years. the Girona
shaft is down 666 ft. in clay and broken limestone.
This shaft is going down into an ocean underground,
similar to the extraordinary flow met with at all'
manton, which is also on the contact of limestone
and granite. In Missouri (U.S.A.) some millions of
tons of low-grade lead and zinc ore have been
worked in sedimentary formations, comprising sand-
stone, dolomite and shale, where the ore occurs m
a disseminated form, and can he concentrated into
much higher-grade zinc concentrates than are pro-
duced at Broken Hill (N.S.W.). _ Disseminated
galena is easy to concentrate, and in Missouri the con-
centrator handles very low-grade zinc ore with almost
equal facility. Sedimentary strata and carboniferous
sandstone and shale occur over a very wide area of
N. Queensland. Similar formations of sandstone,
limestone and clay at Mungana are well worth
prospecting. The Chillagoe Co. says that the
enormous drainage at Xi 1 Imanton leached out the
copper from the ore, leaving it lean and poor. Zill-
manton isn’t done with, however, for tributors are
raising profitable ore from near the surface.*
Brilliant P.C. (Charters Towers, Q.) is
making another attempt to locate a payable snoot
of stone east, of the dyke and the N. B. Freehold s
boundary. The latter, some two years or more since,
extended its No. 2 level (1615 ft.) on behalf of the
Brilliant Co., which paid for the work ; also tor the
sinking of a winze which was lucky enough to strike
some mineralised quartz near the bottom (100 ft.
below the level). The Brilliant Co. has unwatered
this winze, which it is deepening, with a view, no
doubt, to opening a level on the shoot of stone, the
extent of which is at present unknown. Some dis-
tance further east another winze, or underlie shatt, is
being sunk on the Day Dawn formation, to open
these workings to better advantage. The eastern
extension of the Day Dawn proved a good reef to-the
N B. Freehold, for that co. had £116,250 in divi-
dends. The last of 6d. ( £3500) was paid this
month. N.B.F. is now driving west, on a shoot ot
stone developed in No. 5 level. The latter has been
following a poor reef for some time past, but the
stone is now being saved for crushing, and shares
are slightly firmer because of this make. *
Brilliant Deep (Charters Towers) is open-
ing another level (No. 3) between No. 2 and No. 4,
on a reef from 12in. to 15in. thick. Stopes above
No. 4 level show from 18in. to 3ft. of good stone on
the eastern side of the crosscut, and 2ft. to 3ft. of
well mineralised stone to the west. No. 4 level took
a decided southerly course towards the Brilliant
Block, and the idea prevails at Charters Towers that
No. 4 was on a distinct branch of the Brilliant reef
from that worked below 2413 ft. vertical (No. 2
level). The latter was located in 1908 by crosscut-
ting through footwall country, and opened in a
westerly direction above and below No. 2 level.
From these workings 4601 tons were crushed, for an
average of £3 19s. sd. per ton, but the bad ventila-
tion and heavy development work made this return
unprofitable. In order to lower costs and open this
western shoot at 2540 ft., No. 4 level, was started
from the main underlie shaft. After driving through
a lot of blank country the rich shoot was met with.
The poorest crushing was 202 tons, average £3 135.;
the richest 48 tons ( £l4 15s. 6d.). Since 1908 the
B. Deep crushed 5766 tons, averaging £4 13s. 2d.
For the quarter to June 30 the Standard
Consolidated Tin, some 65 miles from Charters
Towers (Q.); crushed 576 tons ore for 33 tons con-
centrates, valued at £4143. The milling equipment
isn’t up to date, so the tailings dump contains more
metal than it ought to do. The prospectors handled
ore worth 15 p.c. tin oxide, and left a quantity ot
low-grade stuff above the 50ft. level. The old work-
ings on Daintree’s lode extend 240 ft. in length, and
there are well-defined walls and every indication that
the fissure extends downwards. Still, the develop-
ment work has been confined to shallow levels, and
the reserves are only 3500 tons, valued at 4 p.c. tin
oxide, so a long course of development is required.
A hand-to-mouth system of mining and treatment is
to he deprecated, and the repeated failure of quarter-
million share cos. to feed their expensive milling
plants is becoming monotonous. The Oaks Rush
Co. (N. Queensland), for instance, provided a mill
with the latest ideas in producer-gas and electric
power, only to find that the show was as poor as
Lazarus, and portions of the machinery—an old mill
—had previously been dragged about the North on a
similar fruitless mission.
* * * *
That offshoot of the Bluff Colliery (Q.),
—the Mammoth Admiralty Co., which was formed to
test the Mackenzie River coal—held a rather mourn-
ful meeting the other day. It sent two parcels ot
its murky combustible to the Admiralty. The first
was satisfactory, but the second was a bigger con-
tract. The job of raising and transporting a 217-ton
lot took some doing. The Mount Morgan Co. lent a
traction-engine, and the Government made a. gift,
worth £70 —railage of plant. Eventually, the co.
landed its goods in Sydney. The result of the test
was short, and anything but sweet. The coal was
“unsuitable for use in H.M. ships. Possibly the
whole lot was changed on the road, accidentally or on
purpose, like the two infants in “Pinafore. rhe
co still believes its coal to be “unusually good,
and it has the opinion of its traction-engine driver,
who dragged the consignment before some miscreant
stole it and substituted an inferior article, that it is
“better than the best Welsh.” Anyhow, the enter-
prise is in financial difficulties.
* * *
Many Peaks (Queensland) has received
£lB 586 royalty for 148,685 tons of its sulphide
copper-bearing flux, and each year the figures in-
crease. Total dividends for four years amount to
£l7 093, on a capital of £2041. Last year s divs.
were’at the rate of 275 p.c. p.a. on the sixpenny
shares. _ *
Papua’s coal pretensions received a nasty
knock from N.S.W. Assistant Geologist Came. He
says that the field discovered between Kilcori and
Pirai rivers is too inaccessible, and if it weren t the
coal is not good enough. However, there is one more
move, for the latest discovery —by the same expedi-
tion-purports that oil has been found in boundless
or other quantities, and that when it is realised,
there will be wealth beyond all the dreams of
moderate avarice. # #
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) handed out £3 per
share (£36,000) last half-year, and as the net profit
figured at £42,856 this wonderful old show seems
to have done its utmost to give its shareholders the
full benefit of a high tin market. For the half-dozen
months under review, 600 tons of tin oxide were
recovered from 113,178 tons of dirt. The oxide con-
tained 403 tons of metal, so it required about 280
tons of tin ore to run out a ton of nearly pure tin.
* * * *
Manager R. Ferguson, of Lyell Blocks
(Tas ) sticks to his opinion that copper will be
found below the bottom of the shaft, which is going
down in a mixture of iron ore and schist. When
sinking was suspended the ground was becoming
softer, with a heavy flow of water. The N. Lyell,
on the other side of the boundary line, has the auri-
ferous schist formation, bounded by conglomerate.
As the depth increased the ore was difficult to find,
and the diamond-drill was employed to an unusual
extent. Ransacking the copper-bearing schist is still
in progress, and only recently the bore located an
ore body at the 850 ft. level, after passing through
40ft. of barren material. If ore exists at the 850 ft.
level, so widely separated from the main ore-channel,
it is on the cards that an equally unexpected dis-
covery may be made in the heavily mineralised
schist penetrated by the Lyell Blocks shaft. The
only question is whether the chance of finding copper
is worth an expenditure of £BOO per month and a
better pumping equipment.
Golden Pyke (Bendigo) is proving that it
has a kick left, for it has alighted on the much
talked of Chadwick’s back; where, in 15in. of quartz,
a few colors of gold have been seen. A bit better
stone is being developed at the 543 ft. level north,
but there doesn’t seem to be much to worry up a
boomlet over. Bendigo, however, persists in biffing
up prices on narrow formations. The belief exists
among outsiders that the stock is over-sold in Pykes,
but brokers take quick profits where Bendigo is con-
cerned. Then they smile at the wallowing done by
the crowd that is left to nurse the baby. Still,
these tactics do not help mining generally or the
field in particular.
* * * *
Poseidon Alluvial, at Poseidon (Vic.), has
got to the hard mining state, and so has to put up
cash. As this is a rich man’s show, the task should
not be hard, but there always is a lot of private
grumbling when sprats are wanted. It isn’t nice to
have shares spring to 305., and then glissade down to
ss. Where money was lost was in believing that
the rich, narrow, run of gold, high up the lead, re-
presented the average value of the wash; also, in
imagining that the pump that would cope with
water in the shallow ground would serve when an
extensive field of wash had to be dealt with, This
ended the first lesson; the second comes when it is
found that the co. has a debt of £2OOO, that the
share register has to be widened by 10,000 shares,
and that more calls have to be paid. The co. ought
to get some good yields out of the Poseidon gutter.
If so, profits ought to be locked up to provide funds
for tackling the main gutter, about the value of
which a holy mystery, exists. Still, Poseidon alluvial
shows are tipped as a good thing.
The great advance made in the construction of In-
ternal Combustion Engines has now been further
demonstrated by the fact of Petrol, Benzine, Kero-
sene and heavy Oil Locomotives being brought into
daily and successful commercial use. The machines
are' thoroughly reliable, and are cheaper in very
many instances than steam or electric locomotives.
Messrs. Ironside, Son and Dyckerhoff, of London,
have supplied a great number of their famous “New
Century’’ locomotives nearly all over the world, and
their machines are even working continuously and
safely in “gassy” coal mines. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne, will be pleased to supply further par-
ticulars. *


Under
Royal
W&rrant
df
ToH.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPAGNE
QiteHeidsieck
IMBUES
CHAMPAGNE
Q^artesllcidsicdc
Reims
World
SRAND
gdf
Renowned
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
BUCHANAN’S
Black (Si White.
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, August 19, 1912.
My Dear Arini. —
The fierce demand for roofs in this over-
crowded city will presently drive citizen
Blank-Brown to camp on the foundation-
stone of any likely-looking villa-in-the-mak-
ing he may run to earth. I saw a family,
followed by all its furniture, descend on a
half-finished house the other morning. The
painters were giving the front fence its last
lick, and the windows were not, because the.
glazier had one of them under his arm, and
the rest were standing on their heads in
adjacent corners. The liall-door was wide
open, because the door was lying on its back
in the footpath, having just ai’rived with
other timber in a cart. A hurried person,
with his mouth and pockets full of nails,
and the last half of the roof strewed in loose
slates about his body, was climbing up to
try and keep the rainfall off the family head.
That was nearly three weeks ago, and the
tenants are beginning to feel almost at home.
The workmen are quite at home and may
finish their job in another year or two; any-
how, before the present tenant’s lease is up
and his hair white with long years of wait-
ing.
The shortage of suburban shingles also
hits the man who hunts for a suitable office
or studio in this town. Artist Blamire
Young wrote from Victoria to his local
representative to secure a studio for his ex-
hibition of water-colors. He might as well
have asked Harley Griffiths to hand him a
slice of the shy, pale moon. After a breath-
less chase, the White House (George-street)
emporium (opposite the G.P.0.) came to the
rescue, and lent the walls of a well-lit furni-
ture department for the show.
Blamire Young, long resident in Vic-
toria —when he’s resident anywhere, being
a tented wanderer who can’t help moving on
—is only a well-known name in N.S.W. He
was a Cambridge man for a jump-off. Per-
haps he meant to plunge into the seething
Sea of Literature from the high plank of
M.A.-ship, for he is said to handle a pen as
well as he does a brush. He jumped so far
from the quiet waters of the River Cam. that
lie found himself at Ivatoomba. This was
20 years ago, and there he met Phil May
and made a determined statement that he.
Blamire, would seriously stalk Art for the
term of his natural life. He, hurried back
to London to study the wiles of water-colors
and some commercial side-issues —posters,
etc. —of the brush. Now he stamps all over
the face of Australasia, and takes wonderful
snacks of scenery in every virgin corner of
this handsome continent and the adjacent
Jam Island.
Will the Blamire Young style—delicate,
illusive, perfect in drawing, but more like a
dream-vision than mere bricks and mortar,
hill-tops and flesh and blood —appeal to the
average patron of Art? Or will he, the Fat
Man, rise above stocks and shares, motors
and diamonds and other things he under-
stands, and give 20, 50 or 100 guineas for a
fantasy like the reflection of a dream—not
his dream, to be sure—of fairy places? The
appreciative local public is. with notable ex-
ceptions, not moneyed. Parbury’s Wharf
is a poem in blue-grey as Blamire Young sees
it. Dry Weather,” a bald old hill, is a
symphony in pale brown. “The Rehearsal”
ladies in crinolines, etc. —goes into more
detail.. Its market value is 100 guineas.
A Misty Morning on the Murray” is a
large and elongated joy in the subdued tints
this artist s brush sops up all the time. Or,
rather, it would have been a joy, if its un-
suitable frame didn’t deserve to be kicked
from here to Beersheba, and then to Tim-
buctoo via Cape York, calling in at Val-
paraiso on the road. “A Misty Morning” is
got up to kill, with a loud expanse of white,
and its label under its river bend, and its
general air of being a tourist department
advt.. This way to the stream; hot water
supplied to picnic parties.” For the rest
two columns of praise can be handed to the
Blamire Young show. Take tTie lift.
The Roman Carnival to abet the funds of
tlie Alexandra Hospital for sick children, tore
round the Stadium sawdust the other nighb
Mr. George Taylor, who is sometimes a black-
and-white artist, sometimes editor of Build-
ing, and captain of an intelligence corps (of
some militia persuasion), materialised into a
stuffed Roman lion (at the show), and
supped on Early Christians, in the intervals
ot being usher-in-chief. Artist Souter’s
famous cat stalked the arena with tail ram-
pant on a brown-paper sign. Lightning
sketches, by Dattilo Rubbo, Harry Julius,
and Claude Leplastrier, were armed and
logged by Souter, who made a prospective
Cup winner out of something that looked
like a liver-green grasshopper in fits.
t WcGowen and Mrs. McGowen,
Lord Mayor .Clarke and Miss Mayoress
Clarke were wired with many other reserved
seat-holders in a pen that overlooked the
Battle of Lake Regillus. The whacking of
skuils at the recent Stadium show for the
Alexandra Hospital was the occasion. Maids
and matrons trooped round the arena garbed
in Greek drapery (white) with abbreviated
Roman togas (purple) dangling from one
shoulder. They sold sweets and other
marketable stuff with great slaughter. In
the interior, when Tarquin Brown-Jones had
ceased to smite the headgear of early Roman
Bill Smithers on the sawdust at Rushcut-
ter’s Bay, the mother of Julius Caesar and
the aunt of Marcus Barrelius did heavy dam-
age to the silver coins which usually drift
away from citizen John Blank as “sundries.”
The Battle of Lake Regillus was the best
item in a prodigious programme which
threatened to go on till the end of next week.
Khaki figures, mounted on more or less ex-
citable horses, smacked each other so vig-
orously with sticks on helmet, shoulder or
any other part available in the hurry of
combat, that the crowd yelled with delight.
Red and white tufts showed the difference
between Tusculum and Rome. Colonel
Rupert Carington (of Light Horse persua-
sion) stamped on the edge of the combat as
umpire. His hon. chest was so heavily roped
in gold that barely six inches of cloth above
the Carington waist belt was visible to the
naked eye. I forget whether it was a
Tusculum gent or a Roman gladiator
(mounted on a swift nag) who ran away
with such enthusiasm the other night. But
he gave the crowd more than three shillings
worth of mirth. Castor and Pollux —pre-
sumably owing to a previous engagement—
were unable to be present.
The Freemasons’ annual hop, in the Town
Hall, was heavily rained on in the fore part
of last week. The cash that is garnered up
on these occasions is handed over to needy
members of the mysterious craft, which only
one woman has ever investigated to her own
satisfaction. In the U.S., and other parts
of the globe, there are said to be feline Free-
masons of sorts. But they only writhe with
curiosity on the outer edge of worshipful
brethren’s cut-glass baubles. The secret
rites that lurk behind a Royal Arch, when
he crooks his finger and digs a Red Cross
Knight a profound prod in the middle of his
bunting, are still hidden from indignant fem-
ininity.
At the Freemasonic hop the placid W. P.
Cullens paced the vice-regal patch of Ax-
minster, and pranced through the turmoil of
official Lancers, in the absence of Governor
Chelmsford. They made a reasonable effort
to bear up cheerfully, when a worshipful
brother introduced the inevitable long white
string of debutantes.
Artist Joe Wolinski reports “All’s well
with the world.” He sold some of his wares
in Melbourne, and he’ll exhibit more at the
R.A. Society’s show, now hovering on the
horizon of next week. Anything left over,
I suppose, he’ll book as excess luggage for
the Great Fog. In the meantime, Wolinski
is going to dally with his easel in Noumea,
and study the light and shade of life in the
tropic land of long sentences, where a semi-
colon represents a ticket-of-leave, and a dash
signifies that the defendant has made a break
for liberty.
Mary Proctor, who is known in the U.S.
as “The Little Lady of the Stars,” an-
swered to any sort of name that came easy
the other noon. Greybeards buzzed round
the hem of her small skirt to look her in the
eye when Mayor Clarke and his daughter,
Miss Mayoress, gripped her hand in munici-
pal welcome. Learned ancients with beards
travelling down to their waists murmured
soft “de-do’s” to Mary, and squeezed her
small paw, and told her they’d known her
parent, the late Richard Proctor.
The Town Hall clock had clashed the
hour of 12 when the assembly trailed
into a hearty midday snack. I fancy
the Milky Way was only third best among
the placed drinks. Perhaps it wasn’t even
that, and was merely among the refreshments
that also ran. The pop of a champagne
cork smote my departing ear with a whack
that was calculated to disarrange the aste-
roids, and blow off the hat of some outlying
planet, and make the staggered comet cling
to the lamp-post pending further develop-
ments.
The Million Club is catching its breath
and putting an “S” to its population en-
deavor department. It has now arranged
to become “Millions.” That irrepressible
atom of tireless activity, Dr. Arthur, leaped
into the chair at the meeting which moth-
ered Solicitor “Bob” Lenehan’s suggestion—
backed by a subcommittee —that the club
do now change its name, and profess to
broaden its vision even if it doesn’t really
do the deed.
Wattle Day (September 1) falls on the
Sabbath sermon day this year. The fray
will be carried on, therefore, on the follow-
ing Monday. In Centennial Park wattle
roots will be firmly planted in mother earth
at 2.30 p.m., and the soapsuds of washing-
dav will mingle their perfume with the smell
of damp sods. On Tuesday evening at 8
p.m. (September 3) the wattle blossom’s
annual spree of speeches will occur in the
King’s Hall. Mrs. Agnes Kettlewell is hon.
sec.
Who is the Mr. Richards who has bought
the Edward Noyes’s roof-tree at Woollahra
Point? Anyhow, the former owner will abide
for six months or so in a furnished house at
Darling Point.
The Lebbeus Hordern engagement to Olga
Monie is likely to be short, for the wedding
is said to be fixed for September. This may
be an unreliable rumor that tampers with the
truth, but it sounds a likely story. A For-
tunate Youth has no reason to Wait till he
can furnish his nest on the monthly instal-
ment plan.
The Gordon-Bowker wedding, on a golden
afternoon last week, was one of the best-
looking affairs the sun has shined on for
some ™ on,; hs. The bride’s parents, Dr. and
Mrs. Steer Bowker, are a fine upstanding
pair, and the mother looked like a going-
away bride herself, in a creamy lilm, splashed
with a black velvet sash at the back, and a
large white and black hat crowned with
white plumes. The bride, Miss Gladys
Bowker, is a tall and beauteous maiden of
the slim willow wand fashion, and she sailed
up the Presbyterian aisle in a wonderful
shimmer of satin embroidered in arum lilies
and fringed with Duchesse lace. The brides-
maids were young and pretty, and the groom
(almost forgotten in the rush of adjectives),
Mr. Jim Gordon, is a nice-looking young
man with a healthy country complexion.
Most of the Marks relatives (Mrs. Bowker
is a daughter of the late John Marks,
M.L.C.) are uncommonly tall and good-
looking. They rallied round the bride in
gorgeous spring plumage, a handsome, pros-
perous tribe. Clothes?
Nearly all the women at this festive wed-
ding wore their new summer clothes, visions
in pale grey, faint blue, golden-brown or
shot-rose silks. Mrs. Tom Bolin and Mrs.
Rich, sisters of the bride’s father, were two
of the most dashing looking matrons, with
Mrs. Walter Marks, in black and white,
also in the first flight of prepossessing per-
sons. The large and wealthy Hugh Mac-
Neils, Mrs. John Toohey (trailing some sable
elegance up the aisle), Gordons, Goulds,
Macarthurs, Osbornes, Levys and legions of
the well-known Rich Hundreds paced like
peacocks on the green lawns at Brantwood
after the parson had tied the knot. The pre-
sents exceeded in size, number and solid
weight anything seen here for a year or
two. One worldly dame applied her lorg-
nette to the silverware and said : “I know a
good deal about weddings—l have daughters
of my own. It will take eight large packing
cases to hold the lot.”
Miss Phoebe Lyster, daughter of Colonel
and Mrs. Lyster of these parts, is reported
to have joined the Suffragettes in London.
This makes a bold and far-reaching adver-
tisement of Miss Lyster’s main business —•
that of society entertainer. When society
yawns over every dodge it knows to kill time,
it now finds solace in furiously doing all
those things for which the common herd gets
several years without the option. I hope
the bright Australian Phoebe will keep on
the sane side of incendiarism, window-
smashing. wholesale murder and other lurid
arguments which are dragging a good cause
into unsavory places.
There is, by the way, a sort of monotony
about Suffragette crimes. The ladies don’t
seem to get beyond assault, noise, damage to
property and occasional arson. Yet what
boundless resources in the way of illegality
lie before them. They could, if so disposed,
protest against their voteless condition by
bigamy, cannibalism, simony, bushranging,
polygamy, irreligiousness, cruelty to animals,
supplying information to foreign enemies,
forgery, procrastination, bad cooking, jerry-
building, poaching, poisoning, shop-lifting,
mutilation, suicide, kidnapping, burglary,
paganism, sacrifice to. false gods, divination,
crimping The article on “Crimes” which
I was consulting in a curious old cyclopaedia
gave out suddenly about here, and the vol-
ume changed the subject in its own abrupt
fashion to “Grim Tartary,” followed by
“Crinoline,” “Cripples,” “Crockery” and
“Crucifixion.”
Mrs. Lyster (mother of Phoebe, already
mentioned) used to have a strong leaning
towards amateur theatricals. She is going
to revive old memories by lending her aid
to a performance of Robertson’s “School” in
the Victoria Barracks on September 3. The
entrance money will go towards endowing a
cot for soldiers’ kiddies in the Alexandra
Hospital. Miss Olive Lees, who walked on
in “Benjamin Hur”; Miss Harris, a sister
of “Boy” Harris, of the R.A.G.A.; Miss Val
Osborne, and other damsels, will play flap-
per parts in “School.”
The Tony Horderns leave for the Cold
Country, in the majestic Medina, on the
24th.
The Osterley’s gold-striped skipper, Dud-
ley Parsons, is alleged to have mentioned
his engagement to Miss Mary Weir. The
lady goes to London in the Orient packet,
and the wedding occurs soon after the
skipper makes his craft fast to a shore rope
on the other side.
What is the inner meaning, if any, of the
electric torch, which some of Mrs. W. A.
Holman’s friends handed her the other even-
ing? Something of the sort, I believe, is
occasionally used by British coal-miners, and
Mrs. Holman is going to Britain. How a
North of England miner can fear God, honor
the King, bring up 10 children (also to
pick coal out of the bowels of the earth),
save a bit for his old age, and go to church
twice on Sundays, and do the lot on about
355. a week is a mystery. Mrs. Holman may
find the torch handy when she looks into the
murky problem, which, it is said, she is
going to do. Also, it may serve to illumi-
nate the darkness of Britannia’s cupboard
—that place to which Mrs. Britannia Hub-
bard resorted when she went to get the
national bulldog a bone, and in consequence
of the place being empty, the public and sym-
bolical creature got none. The wayfarer
picks up the Orient liner at Adelaide. If
she’ll bring back a few million of domestic
helpers, this city will be waiting on the
wharf to fall upon her neck and crown her
with a solid gold wreath of gumleaves.
A wave of sympathy is foaming at the
mouth on the long shore of the widows and
orphans who sunk their little all in the Aus-
tralian Gas Light Company’s shares. Re
the upheaval caused by Minister Carmi-
chaels Bill for making the consumer’s quar-
terly account smaller than it is at present
a well-grown orphan remarks: “I’ve been
keeping house for 30 years, and prefer the
kerosene lamp to the quality of ‘brilliant
illuminant’ the Gas Light company gives the
suburban public. I see it in the side streets
of our ‘best’ suburbs, and advise other
orphans who may be abroad on wet nights
to take a horn lantern to help them dodge
the yawning gulfs in the dark roads. A
widow of my acquaintance informs me that
the language she uses to her gas stove about
6 p.m. would get her expelled from a Chap-
zander choir without the option of a fine.
And the grass widow in the next house is
even more violent.
The wire collection boxe* for discarded
tram-tickets no longer lean superfluous
against the handy telephone posts at street
corners. The thunder of the new Gaud
Mayor is rolling over the heads of those
abandoned persons who once consigned their
shreds of colored tram paper to the
nearest gutter. Now and then, people
remember the wire catacombs that yawn
for dead tickets. Other times they grip
the illusive scrap, clench it fiercely in a
closed fist, and struggle off the car with all
their luggage in a strong left hand. An
absent-minded habit of hanging on to the
departmental receipts for one penny—till
death do them part—is liable to evolve a
distinct species of citizen. He will wear one
fist rolled up in a ball, and filled with debris
he dare not let loose on the city pavement.
Inventive genius might nwmel a new auto-
matic wrist-bag on to the market. It would
dangle with open mouth, and extended lea-
ther tongue, ready to lap up—out of the
adjacent palm—defunct offences in colored
paper. It would then close with a snap, and
invite the pickpocket to snatch its fat body.
He would, of course, be welcome to its con-
tents. Plow the Patent Travellers’ Tram-
Bag would do all these things is the busi-
ness of the patriot who invents it.
The Quinlan symphony concert, in the
Town Hall, was one of the last musical kicks
of a good, all-round opera team. The triplet
of conductors, Knoch, Bath and Voghera,
took the rostrum plank in turn. The slim,
sleek-haired Englishman, Hubert Bath, is
strongly susoected of being one of the greatest
conductors who has flogged the atmosphere
in this city. The man who can steer a huge
orchestra through the long and heavily-
embroidered changes of Symphony No. 5
(Tschaikowsky) without a music score is a
remarkable memorist to begin with. To go
on with, he hounded his fiddlers through the
four long and elaborate movements of this sym-
phony, which sounds like the history of the
world (beginning with the first upheaval—
the one that blew the top off the crater of
Genesis, and let out the lava of history),
with results that stunned any Philistine pre-
judice against this huge land-serpent sym-
phony. It uncoiled its vast length in
melodious undulations of sound, that wriggled
up and down the atmosphere with a charm
that made the- matinee girl cease from
crunching her chocolates. Agnes Nicholls,
that accomplished Wagnerian warbler, con-
tributed a tired, end-of-the-season voice, too
light in quality for the indifferent Town
Hall acoustics, to the aria “Dove Sono.”
Emma Jane, who has worn the gallery
steps of Her Majesty’s Theatre threadbare,
while the Quinlan aviary flapped its wings
and crowed on the stage below, wedged her-
self into the final melee on the wharf. As
the crowd pushed closer to the edge, the
rush to clutch some of the ribbon streamers
that portly members of the opera co. held
over the Osterley’s rail, nearly knocked
Emma Jane, who is long and thin, into King-
dom .Come. She escaped with a large aper-
ture in the crown of her second-best hat, and
a scratch in her temper. She asks, in bitter
parenthesis; “Are Australian girls going
dotty over imported singers, or do they only
pretend to be?” Saw a girl, of 55 or so sum-
mers, fondly press the butt of a narrow rag
of ribbon to her flat chest on Saturday, then
stow it away in a corner of her bag. Will
she become sane and sanitary later on, and
heave. this alleged souvenir, with wharf
bacilli stamping all over its soiled tag, into
the domestic dust-bin?”
Paul Dufault, hailed in Adelaide as
the greatest tenor the City of Spires had
ever cricked its neck t 0 listen to, tears him-
self away from this continent next Monday.
He leaves by the Zealandia with ’cellist
Liebling and the handsome Eleonora de
Cisneros for Noo Yark. Dufault has been
more than a Voice—he has been like a whole
brass band used to open and shut the
Cisneros concerts. That capable youngster,
Iris de Cairos Rego, will be an extra at the
departing Cisneros’s concert on Saturday
night. The same old Town Hall will be
the place.
May you remain beautiful for 1000 years,
my Arini,
VANDORLAN.


I
\i\> v : *:• :• -c V / V - : . V • : -V i $
l V
! ;;
H
- fc3 i - J^rJL
\ ’
vf
/<■
mmm
$*■*
#11
**• /■Vyy.-r
■j>. i
|H r Hg
■mf*. ■; l in
/ k?>
V
PL ■
IHiilp?
y Lyyy;-.' p
Ml,;
m
m
mm
ms
?-3%
/ /,/«
//MM
__^ZeL£ —
»•
MI
n
&
si l fc.'; J^ar»lv:
,
«.»*«■&&»*#■ Wt*S» **w»
Sfs©Ms
y «^s
HE
x. XN
shskI
Ss*
Hi
«S»
J;
■iSOi
:5s%
L-la
His
r /;
i?y«s
-w
*
mm
s?®
11
\ Ax-'
:
SB i
sr i
R
t«i
ms
m
8S®
fSS»V
0Mk
4 *S§IIgg
Nr&-
®s“
as
■H
M'wmM
m
m
S SR
&s
S&SS&
w®
m
Mill
letfse®
i
m
if
:0i' y "J !
aa
m<
W*f
'lyy-y-yy
' #
::^r
MM;
»**
SPI*
«(
Cobra, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Aki m Foo,
Is a champion
With the cue
When a big break
He is making,
HIS slim hand is
Never shaking.
But his cue —
Of which he’s fond—
Seems a long
Magician’s wand.
As the red flies
Like a rocket
Straight into the
Waiting pocket.
Someone murmurs
In the hall.
“‘COBRA’ scores
Above them all!’'


FARMER’S SMART FOOTWEAR FOR MEN.
Parmer’s Boots please your eye,
and are comfortable from the
moment you put them on. They
are made to excel in style, looks
and fit. Not only that—they give
the long service of good material.
We picture a Box Calf Boot,
with genuine welted and cork-
filled iin. soles, and which can be
had in all sizes ahd two fittings.
We can also supply Tan Oxford
or Derby Lace Boots at the same
price.
Price
16/6
per pair
g
SYDNEY.
FARMER’S
THE LATEST AND THE BEST
Remedy for Chest Complaints is Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It is effective when
all else fails. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
X
d
nv/
Mm
s:
Wi.
0
(0
HERE
IT
IS!
THE
HEEL
that makes
hard
pavements
feel like....
pile carpets.
No jarring or
foot weariness
when your
shoes and
boots are
fitted with
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEEIS
These popular Heels are made of
the best rubber for the purpose,
and easily outwear two to three
pairs of leather Heels.
Stocked in various shapes — Lady's
and Gent's—at all leading Boot
Shops. Only accept “ Dunlops."
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States & N.Z.
NOTICE
TO CYCLISTS?
DUNLOP
TYRES
Stand alone for Quality,
Wear, Comfort and Speed
BEST....
FOR ALL
PURPOSES
* *
BEWARE
0f....
Imitations
“DUNLOPS” ONLY
GENUINE WHEN
COVER AND TUBE
BEAR... s —-x
THIS.... fQ \
TRADE IJggjJ
MARK
* *
DUWLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States & N.Z.
raw*
mm
w
m
%
a
■« i 'M
1 H C
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 19, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Very Smartest People hereabout were
worried by the refusals of dancing mistresses
to teach the “Turkey Trot,” and other
fashionable contortions, until the Hyams
sisters undertook to supply the want.. They
are now coaching Toorakians in their own
fastnesses. Melbourne can look forward to
an abundance of Trot at the coming Cup
time.
The dreadful scarcity of the dancing man
has worried recent society hostesses to the
front doors of rest-cure depots. The poor
ladies were driven to scour the highways
for able-bodied waltzers, and all the second-
best suburbaneers grinned loudly behind
their hands. Some of the new recruits thus
hurriedly gathered in were dreadfully raw.
One actually mopped his perspiring brow
with a colored handkerchief (Shame!), while
a second wore a waistcoat like a football
guernsey, and a third scoundrel dared to
produce cotton gloves. (Put him out!) Can’t
somebody train kangaroos or something to
the weariful work of bounding round to
music? The latest supper lure for good
dances consists of quails, with bacon and
eggs to follow. And even that doesn’t seem
to attract the men in sufficient quantities!
The Very Best, and the Second Best, are look-
ing forward with an eager, dog-like look to
the latest variety of London dance, which
Mrs. George Chirnside will introduce on her
return from Europe. The food list is sure
to be a tasty surprise. But some way will
have to be devised of holding back the rav-
enous male dancer who has a way of rush-
ing the food and letting the womenfolk go
practically supperless. Separate troughs
might be provided.
Dancing young men need neither be blue-
blooded nor gilt-edged nowanights. So long
as the rare creature has twopenn’orth of man-
ners and a dress suit, he is made welcome.
Wealthy matrons have acquired the desperate
habit of buying up sheaves of charity dance
tickets, and doling them out to hard-up
youths, who are willing to caper awhile with
the girls ere rushing like wolves on the sup-
per. (The twopenn’orth of manners is never
expected to last during .supper-time.)
Casting his softgoods pettishly aside, “The
Art Draper” writes me as follows: —
How about passing Melbourne Bohemianism into its
coffin? It is but a wilted plant in any case these
days. It may bloom gloriously in the home allot-
ment in Phris, but something goes wrong with the
pallid exotic when it reaches these shores. Willie
Moore, our only professional Bohemian, has gone to
London, and poor old John Ford Paterson, who sat
at the king table and sang “We are na fou’’ at the
Victorian Artists’ smoke nights, is no more. So why
not introduce a short Bill for an Act intituled “The
Bohemian Suppression Act” ? The move would be a
twofold mercy and boon. So far has the decomposi-
tion of Melbourne Bohemianism advanced that its
only hope of life lies in rendering it illegal. Then
it might arise, Phoenix-like, from its ashes, and
become something worth preserving. At the last
Victorian Artists’ At Home, even the Argus, which
is only too willing to see mild, deviltry in art’s most
dreamy vaporings, admitted that the sole evidence of
Bohemianism was to be found in the costumes. And
the Herald’s lady writer, who evidently had to
scramble for her bun, voices the hungry regret of the
women who found that men had taken possession of
the supper room. Fanchon, Mimi and Musette, or
their impersonators, had to stand aside and watch the
lions feed, while Murger revolved swiftly in his
grave. Wisely did Shakspeare place Bohemia by the
sea. He foresaw the time when it would be neces-
sary to push it off the wharf into the water.
Many people who paid to prance at the
Newsboys’ Ball supped frugally on claret
and cake, and patted themselves virtuously
on the back, if they could get round so far,
for their abstemiousness in the sacred cause
of Charity. Since then, whispers have come
to their receptive ears anent barrowloads of
presentation turkeys, etc. No ordinary
dancer appears to have sighted any of this
food. One girl is alleged to have seen a
furtive waiter skipping upstairs to the first
floor apartments with something concealed
under a damask cover. But he got to
ground behind a heavy hardwood door before
she could raise the alarm; so the mystery
of where all the fowl got to remains un-
solved.
There have been very few Quaker wed-
dings in this country. Last week, however,
was made notable by the joining, at the
Friends’ Meeting House, of two members—
to wit, Sister Ruth Annie Howie and Bro-
ther Andrew Robert Mather. Quakers do
not bother about a parson. The two con-
cerned wait for an inspiration. Then they
rise with a choice assortment of “thees” and
“thous,” and a few modest blushes, and get
the simple business over. A company of
brethren and sistern act as witnesses. The
Quakers, are a simple folk. Their yea is yea,
and their nay is nay, and their yes-no is
yes-no.
Mrs. Dr. Hayman, of Ararat, has been in
Melbourne, helning at the matrimonial
hitching of sister Miss Sanders, from Eng-
land, and the Rev. Mr. Childe, from Sydney.
The bride-elect stepped off the Bull boat at
Adelaide, and climbed aboard the Melbourne
express, which dropped her at Ararat in the
early moments of the sunrise. Mrs. Hay-
man breakfasted the weary traveller and
motored her down to Melbourne, where the
bndegroom was waiting. Parson Hughes,
of St. 1 eter s, did the rest. A few intimate
friends toasted the couple over a rose-decked
table at the Grand, and, later, saw them off
on their way to Sydney.
The Best People have had to write fairly
large cheques this year for wedding presents
bestowed; and the moan and rumble of the
Wedding March is again heard in the dis-
tance. Marjorie Levey, followed by sister
Atholl and a trio of Grice girls, will shortly
flutter up the aisle of St. Peter’s, where
Mamma took Papa for better or worse.
Three days later, Nan Nankivell, grand-
daughter of the late City Coroner, Dr. Youl,
will float up the same aisle towards her
bridegroom. Her parents also were united
in the old building. Her life partner-to-be,
Jocelyn Thomas by name, induces sheep to
grow wool for him in the Apple Isle.
Admittance to a society wedding these
times is by golden offering. One fashionable
matron is quite hoarse with explaining to
certain of her friends that their invitations
must have miscarried. Curious part about
it is that the gold-edged cards only seem to
have dodged the letter boxes of people with
mere electroplate tendencies, and not the
boxes of people with diamond tendencies.
Rupert Clarke got back from Papua in
time to attend the last day of the Caulfield
meeting, and stroll about the lawn and bird-
cage with hands thrust deep in the pockets
of a battered grey suit. His lady carried
her latest-acquired treasure, in the shape of
a coal-black toy Pomeranian, which, I under-
stand, barks in Japanese. The absurd bit
of dogflesh, though full-grown, is no bigger
than a kitten, and could only be detected
at a second glance nestling on her arm. It
sleeps in a pill-box on cold nights.
The same evening, the Clarke pair (the
lady under a tall osprey) occupied a box at
Her Majesty’s, and smiled moderately at
“The Quaker Girl.” By the way, the Royal,
in which Rupert takes a paternal interest, is
getting a new lick of paint, and a new carpet
on the stairs. The old carpet was tacked
down by Batman, or the blacks, I forget
which.
The latest motor in the Rupert Clarke
garage has peculiar markings, which give it
an unpleasant suggestion of a blue-black
coffin with white trimmings. It seems to re-
mind one that all flesh is grass—which,
doesn’t signify that all grass is fresh.
Widow Durrant has sold her interest in
the Port Phillip Club Hotel to Farthing, the
fresh-brewed politician who is having an
extended legal argument with Knight
Weedon about the East Melbourne election.
Mrs. Durrant, who has been a very sick
woman for many moons, is yearning for the
peace and seclusion of a suburban villa.
The wife of an inter-State politician was
recently detected, in the garish light of day,
hurrying from her coupe to the steps of her
hotel in full evening dress. Just when the
gossips were beginning to sit up straight, it
was discovered that the lady had merely
been to a studio to have her latest frock
photographed.
The widow Clifton is leaving a cheery
round of bridge parties in this city to hurry
north to her Darling Downs sheepery. There
she will join her son and daughter, and seri-
ously discuss money matters with the indis-
pensable lawyer. It appears that a maiden
aunt, just deceased, has burdened the little
family group with her entire fortune —and
the group is already staggering under real
and personal estate. Daughter Daisy, who
is one of Bananaland’s beauty girls, has just
returned from a two-years foreign wander.
Dr. Joyce, the jovial medico attached to
the V.A.T.C., has been urged by would-be
supporters to plunge into politics. But the
wise young man points to his lucrative prac-
tice and shakes his head.
Bonnie Watt has been showing herself
and some up-to-the-minute clothes at smart
frivols during the past fortnight. The horsey
young woman went to England in the dim
past to watch the Coronation, and has only
returned at this late date. An English aunt
inveigled her into a series of country-house
visits, and, in addition, gave her a season in
London. Mamma Watt, in the meantime,
put a waistbelt round the earth. She re-
turned to these shores and spent three
months, ere bolting off through America to
bring Bonnie home again. The two arrived
in time to show some airy garments dt the
races, and do a little fencing at the fox
pursuit.
Miss King, a niece of the defunct scientist
Kelvin, who is at present admiring the
scenery of Fiji in the vicinity of Suva, in-
tends, later, coming on to Australia. When
in these parts, a few years back, she became
a most unwilling society victim. A good
story is still remembered against a pushing
dame who thought to overwhelm a plainly-
dressed stranger she met at a high-priced
hotel, by remarking that her stay in the city
was merely due to a desire to entertain Lord
Kelvin’s niece. She was shaken to her
foundations when the young stranger said
pleasantly, “As you are doing it now, pray
don’t penalise yourself further.”
That high-class female club has been re-
fused its bar license —or else it withdrew its
application to fill ’em up again on the pre-
mises. It is alleged by some mean and de-
graded enemy, with the moral tone of a
hyena and the subterranean characteristics
of a wild cat, that some folk who were in-
quiring earnestly about admission rules have
cooled off considerably. The insinuation is
beneath notice.
A blind and generally dilapidated Chinese
beggar has recently taken up his stand in
one of the busy streets. He is an excellent
advertisement for the White Australia
policy.
Everyone is wondering why Melba did not
take Sylvia Ffrench along with her. When
son George approached the altar a second
time the singer clasped the Bob Power niece
to her bosom so tightly that you couldn’t
have separated them with a crowbar. Rumor
supposes that the girleen is to follow on pre-
sently. Possibly she is getting a library of
hats together.
Contralto Kirkby Lunn will have made her
social bow in Melbourne by the time this is
dressed in print. The Gaud Mayor, sup-
ported by the Smart Setters, had arranged
to offer the glad hand and a superb cup of
tea on arrival.
Cisneros lately discovered some long-lost
or mislaid cousins in the Morgans, of Bal-
larat, and the family loyally tilled some of
the front stalls at Her Majesty’s —Ballarat’s
own theatre —and listened in state to the
tall singer’s top notes. She descended on
the musical city, accompanied by boxes as
large as suburban cottages of the one-eyed
variety. The Mayor and the Best People
tendered her a welcoming party, whereat the
star shed a Polar motoring coat, and showed
the afternoon tea-drinkers a vision of an
oyster cloth dress. The top-dressing con-
sisted of a black feathered hat as big as a
racecourse.
Tenor Paul Dufault acquired a variety ,of
chill during the cold motor trip, and gave
up all frivolity, in order to spend a secluded
day next to a mustard plaster. He revived
splendidly by the evening, and explained in a
golden voice that he was the master of his
fate and the captain of his soul —-also the
first lieutenant, the bilge-water and the cook.
The little co. set off in the dark hours of
next morning to catch the fleeting express
and keep its engagements.
Ernest Toy and Nellie Billings, both of
whom are spoken of reverently in musical
circles, gave a recital in the Athenaeum last
Wednesday evening, in the presence of an
appreciative crowd. Nellie, who was clad
delicktely in lavender and old lace, had a
vivid pink screen- for background, and some
black-and-gold scenic effects. She played a
massive composition of Schumann’s —a be-
wildering thing of 16 movements and vari-
able moods. Ernest Toy coaxed his violin
through a concerto of Saint Saens and some
Paganini studies. Millie Tree Chapman, a
tall pink soprano, assisted, and Jessie
Masson swayed through the piano accom-
paniments in brick-colored draperies.
On unimpeachable authority, I learn that
Ola Jane Humphreys, at one time well known
in these parts, has gone back to Pharaoh,
her Egyptian husband. Or, rather, he has
gone back to her. A friend in Paris saw
them at the Elysfee Palace Hotel —a splendif-
erous establishment which was regularly
patronised by the late King of the Belgians
and other sound judges'—and their general
deportment suggested a brace of turtle-doves.
They were there as Prince and Princess
Hassan, so, obviously, the yarn about the
divorce was merely a yarn, or, if it was
once approximately true, it has become a
yarn by effluxion of time.
“The Quaker Girl” is aged five or six
weeks by Melbourne’s reckoning; but the
smartest people are still crowding along to
listen and consider Palotta’s French dresses.
There are: (1) a shot-silk garment that
bags in some places and clings tight in
others; (2) a morning dress, smooth and
yellow as a tinned salmon ; and (3) an
afternoon envelope (this is quite beyond
the imitative suburban dressmaker), con-
sisting of layers and layers of lace, ninon
and net. The boxes in which these treasures
travel are interesting in themselves. They
are really clothes coffins or frill cataconibs—-
long receptacles which allow the gown to lie
full length without folding. Australian
chiffon stores still send out their valuables
in the old, square boxes, regardless of
creases. Here is a chance for them to be
more or less original—and add a little more
to the bill.
Connie Milne, another of the “Quaker
Girl” girls, sports a queer, stiff dress of silk,
which billows out round the hips and
dwindles to a hobble about the knees.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
It has been a drab, uneventful week from the
point of view of the frivoller—one of those periods
when, the professional chaser after social items feels
weary and ill at ease, and is able to develop a sen-
timent of understanding sympathy with the hen
which struggles to connect with the early worm upon
the unpromising surface of an asphalt yard. Teas
have been the order of the day, and what, I ask
you, can be less uproarious and thrilling than these
Wowserish feasts? Mrs. Luther Scammell gave one
at the South Australian Hotel on Wednesday. She
absorbed the fluid in a well-built gown of soft red
ninon and Irish lace. A black hat frowned som-
brely down'on the costume like Drachenfels brooding
over the Rhine. Mrs. Hemicke, Mrs. Leslie Aldridge,
Mrs. Morish and Mrs. Angus Johnson were among
the guests.- ■
Tea was also- in the air On Tuesday, when Miss
Stow invited those who were interested in her small
pupils to come and see them work. After the in-
fants had clay-modelled, physical-cultured, sung
French, etc., like Old Henry, the beverage of the
godly was uncorked, and the bun, in whose tracks
Dyspepsia stalks like a tiger, was handed round.
Friday fairly bristled with teas. . Mrs. Hope filled
cup after cup of the allegedly, cheering stuff for her
friends at the Queen Adelaide Club. Miss Meek and
Mrs. T. J. Wilson did the same at their respective
homes. Old hands say they don’t remember having
seen so much tea-spiffing since the record year (the
“Bohea year,” as it is sometimes called) of 1862.
There have been no casualties to date. By the way,
Miss Meek's tea-disbursal was intended as a welcome
to her sister, Mrs. Jones, who has arrived here from
Tasmania.
Enough of tea. Let me turn to more sensational
topics. On Tuesday, Mr. and Mrs. Scarfe gave a
bridge party at Roke Terrace. There was nothing
reminiscent of the wild old Regency days about the
festival —no spectacle of thousands changing hands,
and ancestral estates being flung away on the turn of
a card. Still there were cards, which was some-
thing, and there was other sustenance available be-
sides tea, which was more. We are grateful for
small revels these days.
At Ilahndorf, Mr. A. Von Doussa has just put up
a record comparable to that of the amazing child
who figures in the dailies occasionally as having
attended school for x years, without sustaining one
spanking. He’s been clerk of the local district
council for 40 years, and has not missed one meet-
ing in all that wearisome time. The roads in his
district are as good as any in the hills, and motorists
are accustomed to salaam reverentially whenever they
hear his name mentioned.
From Oxford comes glad news of Harry Thompson,
a S. Australian Rhodes scholar. He has captured
his B.A. degree, and was one of the first seven on the
Honors list. In fact, young Henry has, as it were,
gained his “Blue” for brains.
The visit of the Governor of Tasmania was peaceful.
No insurrection, no warfare —nothing. He was given
lunch at Parliament House and dinner at Govern-
ment House. Also, he visited the “Dick” Hawkers
at Bungaree. And that was about all. He was
asked to tea—but enough.
There was a- small dance at Government House on
Wednesday evening. It was mainly youthful. The
Bosanquets have started a sensible practice of asking
young people to their hops, and elderly ones to
the “receptions.” There are few sights more tragic
than that of a number of tired, elderly people, danc-
ing hard in the name of loyalty to the Throne and
Empire. Under the new arrangement they are called
on to display their loyalty at the supper table alone.
Miss Mary Barden (who is now Mrs. David
Wilkie), like her sister, was married with the
minimum of display. A few intimate friends saw
the marriage in the church, after which she and her
husband glode off without having so much as one
friendly boot heaved at them.
The Adelaide Hunt Club had a great run at
O’Halloran Hill on Saturday. The country about is
perfect for the grand old sport of aniseed-pursuing—
hilly, but not too steep, and well-cleared. It was a
glorious day—a foretaste of spring, with a brilliant
sky and a warm sun. The road to the meet leads
through countless almond plantations, all in full
blossom, and the run led the horsemen over the
sloping hills, till the hills dropped to the sea, and
the horsemen had to stop, lest they should drop also.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


m
s'
.
*
*'
t m
I
A
S
S>
I
:
1
HI
I
...
i
a?
i
e
<
m
gfe S
s
■
$ i
>1
1
i
i
i
wtWWW
!§§§§§
■mil
m*m»*4 -> •
DEWAR
The Laird
JOSEPH SIMPSON. R.B.A.
Copyright and property of John Dewar and Sons, Ltd., Distillers to his Majesty the King, H.I.M. the German Emperor,
H.M. the King of Spain, and H.M. the King of Sweden.


ASK FOR
♦ ♦ ♦
FRANZ JOSEF
LAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HAC KERB RA U
dark lager.
MOTHER TROUBLED.
“At first my boy was attacked with a bad cold
in the chest and throat, which threatened to be a
bad case of diphtheria,” writes Mrs. Burnham, Wil-
liam-street, Lutwyche, Q. “After trying several
things without success I gave him Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy, and I must say 1 certainly would
have lost my boy if I had not used it, for he was on
the verge of diphtheria.
Do you enjoy your sleep—attack your work with
vigor? No? Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract
invigorates, feeds tired nerves and makes life worth
living.* 1
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection.lt
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Wriie.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers)
281 GEOIiGE ST. (opp. Hunter St), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Prahran (Vic.) imported a steam roller
the other day, on the ground that, because
of cheap labor, England could make the goods
for £725, while the cost of the locally-pro-
duced road-squasher would be £B7l. The
figures might not be quite accurate, but the
moral is obvious enough. _ First, this coun-
try shoves up wages, and is proud ol having
about the best-paid working community on
earth. Then its fiscal-sinkers send the work
abroad, on the plea that the Australian is so
well paid that they can’t afford to pay him.
In theory, he gets the best wage on earth
for making the roller. In practice, he doesn t
get the wage, and another fellow makes the
roller.
THE UNSINKABLE THING.
AUSTRALIA: " Thought you'd sunk him , did
you? Well , you simply cant .”
The new Chinese Parliament has enacted
that any man may divorce his wife by
simply declaring that he is tired of her.
Apparently, the marrige tie doesn’t . really
amount to much in Chowland, despite all
the weepings re the allegedly desecrated
hearth of Mrs. Poon Gooey, of Geelong
(Vic.).
The S.A. Government has decided to im-
port locomotives from Glasgow instead of
having them made in Australia, because the
imported goods are cheaper. It is a muddled
brand of logic. Australia is proud of the
fact that it pays better wages than Scot-
land. Then it refuses to buy its own goods,
saying that Scotland deserves the job because
it pays worse wages than Australia.
In the Victorian cities and towns the
average rate levied last year was Is. 84d. in
the £. In the country districts, where the
big, rich, mean, loafing landowner runs the
show, the rates are only Is. 2M. in the £.
And, as a natural result of this refusal to
find the needful money, country roads have
sagged down into such unutterable disrepair
that the cost of putting them in decent
order is estimated at £3,926.254! Only
that and nothing more, as Toe remarked
about his busted raven.
There is this difference between the pre-
sent McGowen boom and the Owe’Sullivan
boom of previous days. It was Owe’Sulli-
van’s luck that he boomed in hungry times,
when labor and material and loans, and land
were alike cheap. So with all his muddle
he built at fairly cheap rates, and then good
times came and made his works pay.
McGowen is booming on a much larger
scale, with dear labor, dear material, dear
land and high-priced loans, and there is
reason to suspect, with worse muddle. And
when bad times come — ! !
“Meroni”: Having an intimate acquaint-
ance with Ireland, let me throw, hurl or shy
some light on Brother Snowball’s remarks
on illiteracy in the verdant land of misfor-
tune. In Ireland an illiterate is anybody
over five years of age who can neither read
nor write." In England an illiterate is any-
body aged more than nine years who can
neither read nor write. In Barataria, I be-
lieve, an illiterate in the eyes of the law is
anybody aged over 150 years who can
neither read nor write. Therefore there are
no illiterates in Barataria. It doesn’t pos-
sess an alphabet or a pen or an ink-bottle.
Yet, theoretically, it is the most dashed
educated place on earth.
The Church of England’s Society Confer-
ence has risen in its might and reported “the
growth of drunkenness among the youth of
our cities to be very serious.” It recalls
that yarn, published a year or two ago by
three holy snufflers, about how they stood
outside a leading Sydney hotel —no name
or address given, nor could any details ever
be dragged out of the holy three—and saw
numerous children reeling out in a state of
intoxication. And the holy three hadn’t the
manliness to bring along a policeman and
stop the horror. Liquor is a matter which
can be traced through the Customs and Excise
Department, and the fact that the consump-
tion per head is steadily decreasing is well
enough known. It is a pity that professing
Christians should be such an unreliable class.
There is no statement on which the experi-
enced eye of suspicion is fixed harder than
that of" the parson or the shining light of
the Church.
“Adelaide” : It has been seri-
ously raised as an objection, in
S.A., to the Proportional Rep-
resentation voting fad, that
King O’Malley was returned
under it in Tasmania! But its
supporters point out that no
system is perfect, and that pro-
bably the only remedy for Mon-
arch O’Malley is an axe, rubbed
on externally.
There is concealed humor
about A’ictoria’s remarkable
Railway Department, if one
could but nail it down and keep
it handy when required, in a
manner of speaking. The other
day the concern notified Police
Boss O’Callaghan that it had
been robbed of £1750 worth of
goods, comprising 341 truck tar-
paulins and 345 truck lashings,
sometime during the last two
years, it wasn’t quite sure
when. The tarpaulins are size-
able articles, not easily con-
cealed in the pocket, and bear
diagonal red stripes, six broad
arrows and the brand Y.R.S.
The lashings are 42ft. long, and
have an interwoven red thread.
There would seem to be but a
limited market for such articles,
but apparently someone has
found a receiver for them,
“some time during the last two
years.” And the helpless
minions of the unsuccessful
o'Callaghan—who can’t follow up a red-lrt
clue when it is only a day old —are expected
to locate the thieves.
According to the cable, New York is stag-
gered at recent discoveries re the dishonesty
of its policemen. Curious! Presumably the
light literature of a country is, to some ex-
tent, a reflex of the popular mind and the
popular conditions. And if anybody bought
a ton of U.S. magazines, and read the fiction
right through, he would finish with the im-
pression that there hadn’t been an honest
policemen in the U.S. for 21 years.
Ilomburg, S.A. Minister of Industrj, was
recently urged to introduce a measure for
the stamping of Chinese-made turmtuie.
Whereupon, Hermann Ilomburg put on a
fathomless German expression, and said he
feared anything of the sort would lead to
“undue preference.” Apparently lie meant
undue preference to white Australian citi-
zens. That sort of thing would naturally
seem terrible to a Tory like Hermann Hom-
burg.
“Eryander”: It looks as if Germany were
making the Rliine-tolls question the thin
end of the wedge for a quarrel with Holland.
The Low Countries, being her old lost pos-
sessions, Germany is determined to gather
in, and it is quite on the cards that when
the well-stricken Franz Josef passes out she
will make a grab at Austria, in order to
round-off a sea-to-sea empire. When she
gets Holland, she’ll get also the Dutch
Indies, and thus become our near neighbor in
Java and Sumatra—a happening that would
carry curious possibilities for us.
“How Now” writes from Port Darwin in
the bitterness of his soul: —I am a Laborite
and a White Australian, and lo! my
heart is sad within me, and I feel
like going out and kicking someone
—for choice someone who is discolored. The
occasion is soon told. The Fisher Govern-
ment whom I supported with my vote, vocal
chords, etc., at last election, has just ap-
pointed a Governor of the Territory. Does
this official abide by national principles !
No, sirree, he does not. He has, up to date,
imported a deal of his furniture from Asia,
engaged a Chow cook, an Asiatic laundry-
man, and a herd of ditto liouseboys, and has
given his patronage to the Chow tailor. It
sounds passing well, i’ faith, “Cheep Snip,
Vice-Regal Tailor. By Special Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor, who
was the first thing of its kind chosen by
a White Australian Government.”
THE FEE E TRADE LUNCH.
BRITISH L ION: “Bones again! I'm getting
bloomin' well tired of bones.”
The practice of handing the States trade
sops to keep them from yapping, achieves
some wonderful results. For example, ac-
cording to Inspector-General Kirkpatrick s
annual report, 15 different contractors aie
necessary to prevent the Australian gunner,
in say, Perth, from gunning in a nude state.
He gets his blue tunic and some sundries
from Melbourne. Sydney sends along hel-
mets, Brisbane supplies hat ribbons, pug-
garees and chin straps, what time Adelaide
is furiously nailing together his canvas
trousers. He gets his (or will, some
time) from Lithgow, in N.S.M., and his ammu-
nition from Victoria, and, if Victoria started
to supply the rifle as well as the ammunition,
or N.S.W. got hold of the ammunition-
supplying biz, in addition to the pull it
already holds, there would be Ancient Henry
to pay. and Bruce Smith or someone would
probably threaten to secede from the Fed-
eration.
“F.C.” writes: —
Notwithstanding the persistence of his efforts to
keep Mrs. Poon Gooey in Australia—if it can be
compassed by the assistance of rich Pones and holy
Chow-maniacs —Consul-General Yung Liang Hwang
exposed his real opinion of the whole impudent piece
of bluff when he refused to accept the condition
imposed by Minister Thomas in his latest oiler.
After having signed the deportation papers, Thomas
weakly offered to extend the time of grace a further
six months, on condition that the Consul-General held
himself responsible for the lady’s final departure
then Of course Hwang wasn’t having any! None
knew better than he that Poon Gooey’s case could
be taken as a precedent, that even milder Ministers
than Thomas might be in office in future and that
every little breach in the protective wall of White
Australia would weaken that barricade. None knows
better than the same Hwang that Poon Gooey has no
case, and never had any case, inasmuch as his first
application for his wife’s admission showed that he
was aware she could not stay here. That the matter
has already become a precedent is proved by the tact
that the Minister last week received —and granted—
an application for a further three months extension
in the case of another Chinkie wife and two nieces.
This last undesirable has faithfully promised to
keep her word and depart when the time is up—but
then so did Hop Gooey with regard to his missus.
Meanwhile, this country is heartily sick of Mrs.
Gooey, and will be glad to see the last of her. Also,
of Hop Poon himself.
A quaint incident happened lately in a
certain State department. _ The office
cleaner and rouseabout is high up in a
Labor League, and, consequently, has a
“pull.” He saw the local member, and
arranged for an interview with the Minister
on the subject of the alleged mismanage-
ment of the office, which, by the way, is a
highly technical and scientific concern. Ihe
news was broken to the staff, and as it had
grievances—everybody has —it decided, after
due consideration/ to join the deputation, fol-
lowing the man with the “pull. ’ So the
staff, including some elderly scientific men of
tonnage, marched down behind the office-
cleaner, and the cleaner introduced his
superior officers to the Minister, and ex-
pounded the situation at full length from its
scientific and commercial aspect. Finally,
the cleaner and his following were bowed
out, and took the back track for the scene of
their labors. Now, in that office, the advan-
tage of being a high official of a local league,
and the unimportance of being anybody else,
are fully understood.
MRS. CANBERRA COLLECTS THE
ALIMONY.
£111,000 will be spent on the Federal capital
this year. —Budget item.
A prominent feature of the Bill for the
amalgamation of the N.S.W. Savings Banks,
now before Parliament, is that which pro-
vides that the new bank may advance up
to 75 per cent, of the estimated value of a
leasehold, or 06 per cent, of the value of the
leasehold and improvements. This ; is a
joyous time of high values, and it isn t the
best possible occasion for seriously reducing
the margin of safety. The Savings Bank is
lending at a lower rate than private
financiers, and if it is liable to get poor
security along with low interest, it looks like
playing a reckless game with the depositors’
money. It may be charity, and it may bring
in votes, but/it isn’t biz.
“S,”: N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture
Trefle is introducing a Branding Apt. As
things are, hides are continually spoilt with
huge brands which are generally on the butts
or the ribs —which are the portions which
the hide-merchant most loves and covets.
The brand renders the portion unusable. At
the present time there is nothing to prevent
anyone from burning an 18in. monogram or
the Lord’s Prayer on a beast if he feels in
an artistic mood. Some cattle that have
changed hands frequently are covered with
hieroglyphics like Cleopatra’s Needle. It is
a cruel business, and unnecessary to boot.
The original registered brand should have
sufficed. The new Act will provide for a
2in. letter limit, and it’s up to Trefle like-
wise to state where it is to be affixed. The
best site would probably be the shoulder.
Speaking in a leathery sense, the brand
would then be in “offal” and harmless. By
the way, the English cattle I’ve seen in Aus-
tralia are unbranded. Likewise the tanned
hides that reach here from Japan.
“Henry PI.” writes :
Victoria probably thinks it lias done something
smart in getting Westernport, close to Melbourne,
turned into a Federal naval station. Later, it will,
perhaps, reckon that it has been the last possibility
in the way of the animal with the long ears, and the
scrappy tail, and the comic opera voice, and the
thistle in its mouth. Melbourne has about finished
its career as a first-class port. There are vessels
building now for the Australian trade that can t get
into it. There are bigger ships to follow, and there
is hardly money enough in the State to dredge the
enormously long channel across the bay so as to
meet future requirements. Victoria’s future as a
centre for up-to-date shipping apparently depends
chiefly on Portland and Westernport. The former is
at the extreme west of the State, and if all the best
oversea traffic is to concentrate there, it means the
eclipse of Melbourne and the district around it. And
the magnificent Westernport, right alongside the Vic.
capital, has, by dint of the pulling of many strings on
the part of local politicians, been triumphantly
thrown away, and set aside as a very badly-placed
naval station. It gratifies the vanity of the State to
have a naval base in its territory, and it will make
a scrap of money out of the business by the sale of
beer, stores, plug tobacco, etc. But before 20 years
are over it will probably want its Westernport very
badly for purely commercial purposes. Also, when
the first luckless scrap happens at sea, and the
enemy comes to Westernport, just a handful of miles
from Melbourne, to try and capture the vessels that
have fled for shelter, and to take the stores and
docks and arsenals, another aspect of the case will
perhaps dawn on the bloated and selfish city. Then
it will tear its hair in Collins-street and cry “Icha-
bod” in Flinders-lane, and wish that it had used its
influence to get the naval base fixed at Gladstone, so
that the enemy would be ravening for his prey at
Rockhampton's side door for preference.
The sea has been eager in its pursuit of
the wife of Captain Thomas, of the British
barque G. W. Wolff, wrecked last week on
Hummock Island, in Bass Strait. The lady
was a daughter of that Captain Thomas
who went down in the China trader Marco
Polo, her elder brother David accompanying
his father to the bottom of the sea. Her
younger brother, John, had risen to. be a
chief officer when his ship foundered in the
Atlantic with all hands. Now, her husband
has gone, and there is only a 14-year-old
daughter left.
THE LONG-DISTANCE LOAFER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An address on the “Present Political Situation
was delivered by Mr. It. W. Jennings organiser
He condemned the old age pensions scheme, which
tended to make young men loafers.”
—Melbourne Argus.
I toil not, neither do I spin.
I never give a thought to work.
For jobs I do not care a pin.
Responsibility I shirk.
You see, I loaf because —well, 1
Come in for money by-and-bye.
I never toil, and therefore eat
At odd times, when I eat at all;
Yet, though good beer and bread and meat
Be lacking, manna’s booked to fall
On me, by Government controlled,
Some time. I’ll get it when I’m old.
Some nights, in chilly beerlessness,
I certainly do wonder how
A taste or two would go, and bless
My luck. Yet, though I shiver now,
Domaining glumly in the cold,
I’ll have some comforts when I’m old.
I rot along from day to da}',
Amused to see strong, foolish men
At toil. I’m not inclined that way,
For when I’m old (unless by then
I do a loaf beneath the mould)
I’ll draw my pension—when I’m old !
1 do not toil —I do not spend
My time in tossing bricks about.
I simply stand me up on end
And wait. The Government will shout
In forty years or so, I’m told. . . .
I'll get good money when I’m old.
[VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


The French
Grand Prix
The Greatest Event
in 1912
;v..
"S.
N ' *
■W.
I. "
: V:>
v >. v ->
V ’ .
: ****** 1 V
A
■
‘■’i
Won on
The World’s Greatest
Lubricant
Gargoyle "Mobiloil
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
dfg
HORSEMEN!
Here are two items of Wear that you abso-
lutely rieed—The “ Squatter ” Hat and the
Stockman ” Boot—Both so extremely
good that after one trial you simply Won’t
be without them.
THE “SQUATTER”
14/6.
A Hat that is splendidly suited for
Riding and Ordinary Wear—Made
in Fine Fur-Felt—with 3-in. Brim
—Will stand any amount of Rough
Wear—Always looks Smart —is
beautifully Light and Cool—Best
Anstralian, 9/6 (post free), Wood-
row’s, 13/6 (post free).
Sp’
.
.
m
'
im •*
-■=■'■"• ~ fc
THE “STOCKMAN,”—I4/6.
Made in Fine Strong Calf, fully matured to that suppleness
which spells Comfort for every joint—Thoroughly water-
proof-with Elastic Sides and Double Tags-eafy to sTp on
and off— Certain wear with Every Pair.” 14/6 (post free)
Lincoln,
StUart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
f
MAIL ORDER OUTFITTERS
53
TS
rC'
-ss
1,000,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
WRITTEN, ILLUSTRATED and PRINTED IN AUSTRALIA.
Tl-io TV«iHck** A Venture in New Guinea. By CECIL ROSS-JOHNSON.
* * t ctCICI • With Six Full-Page Illustrations. Price 1/- ; Postage Id.
“The Trader” is one of the most fascinating books of adventure yet published, and some of the
chapters would be hard to beat for tense dramatic situations and vivid word-painting.
The young Australian explorers who invade New Guinea in search of pearls, copra and
rubber meet a series of adventures, or misadventures, sufficient to satisfy the most voracious
appetite. The description of the man who keeps the last bullet for his mate, ,vbo has been
captured by cannibals, is worth the money itself; and the story of the trader who has been
dynamited beyond recognition, and who prays his comrades to put an end to his suffering, opens
up some fine points regarding legal murder and common-sense humanity. Altogether a book out
of the common.
The Dawsons’ Uncle George. By sumner locke, Author of
MUM DAWSON, BOSS. Illustrated by C. G. PEARCE. Price Is. ; postage id.
When “Mum Dawson, Boss,” first appeared, about nine months ago, it was apparent that
Australia still had some clever writers left, and the reading public endorsed that view by buying
up the first edit on in record time. This new book runs on similar lines, and fully maintains the
author’s reputation for keen insight into our Australian bush life, and for that happy, rippling
humor and genial fun that delighted us in the first book. In many respects “The Dawsons’ Uncle
George” shows the improvement that conies from experience, and ought to be heartily welcomed
by “Mum Dawson’s” admirers and the rest.
BOORS ON BUSHRANGING
Dan Kelly, Outlaw. By AMBROSE PRATT. i/-, Post Free 1/1.
Being the memoirs of Daniel Kelly (brother of the famous Ned Kelly), supposed to have been
shot in the memorable fight at Glenrowan. The most convincing account of the Kelly Gang.
Three Years with Thunderbolt.
Edited by AMBROSE PRATT.
1/-, Post Hree, 1/1.
Bushranging stories, like far-off fields, are ever green, and when the bushranger has a noted
personality and is not a mere robber, there is an added charm attached to the tale.
The Outlaws of Weddin Range.
By AMBROSE PRATT.
I/-, Post Free 1/1.
The many stirring episodes in Ben Hall’s life are depicted with such skill that while we are
reading actual history, the whole thing has an air of genuine romance.
Gentleman Jack. By DON DELANEY. I/-, Post Free 1/1.
Altogether a rattling story, apart from the fact that the doings of the notorious Ben Hall gang
are woven in with the main plot, and lend it a keen note of tragedy.
The Devil’s Nightcap. By LANCELOT BOOTH. 1 /-, Post Free, 1/1.
The story of the Ben Hall-Gardiner gang. Historically true in outline, full of strenuous incident
and dramatic tableaux.
The Convict Pugilist. By GEO. COCKERILL. . 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
A tale of the early days when might was often right. Contains graphic descriptions of fights
that frequently meant life or death. Exciting, thrilling and entertaining.
The Spell of the Bush. By JOHN X. CAMERON. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
To many “The Spell of the Bush” is a living thing that haunts and charms simultaneously; but,
when to that is added, the fascinating touch of bushranging, you come under an influence that
compels you to read on and on to the end.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
476 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AND ALL BRANCHES
AND BOOKSELLERS.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
Throws Moving Pictures in any
place, at any time, with the
light that it makes itself.
The light is produced from electricity generated in the small magneto (Fig.
1G) as the handle that projects the picture is turned. Thus the machine is abso-
lutely independent of any outside means of lighting, and can be used as successfully
in (he camp or country house as in the city house. The light is a small electric
bulb, and the magneto cannot get out of control in any circumstances.
1
13
jl®
PATHE FILMS WILL
NOT BURN and the
PATHEHOME is the only
Cinem ato-
graph which
will not in-
crease the
cost of fire
insurance on
your home.
No.
I—Handle.1 —Handle.
3—Delivery Spool.
B—Gate8 —Gate (the Damp-
house is on the
Gate).
12—Receiving Spool.
13&15 —Lamphouse
14—Lens.
16—Magneto.
The Pathehome gives the same result as the old cinematograph, but with-
out any risk, and is no more like it in principle than a modern runabout is like a
mail coach. The showman’s cinematograph and smaller copies of it in the hands
of the unskilled are dangerous. There is no danger with the Pathehome. Con-
sider this and the pleasure that you and vour family can get out of it, no matter
where you live, and write for full particulars now. Do it at once, using this
coupon.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and Post At Once.
PATHE FRERES, 1/8 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free catalogue of the Pathehome Cinematograph.
Name
Address
Dept. C.
Get to know more of this
wonderful machine. Get our
catalogue posted free. It will
interest and delight you.
Write now.
Pathe Freres,
48 Queen St., Melbourne
and All Over the World.


810-SHOWMEN!
nr HERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send {or Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
THE IDEAL WOMAN’S REMEDY.
MOTHER AND DAUGHTER USE DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
WITH SATISFACTORY RESULTS.
Throughout the many stages of woman*
life, from peevish girlhood through woman-
hood, motherhood, to the declining years o
old age, there is no better or milder remedy
than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. The?
promote regularity, aid the digestion am
assimilation of food, and keep the bowem.
liver and kidneys in proper working order.
“I have tried many remedies for regulating
the system,” says Mrs. Adeline Sullivan, a
Leichhardt Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney
“and I find that Dr. Morse’s Indian Koo
Pills are unequalled as a corrective and sui
my constitution splendidly. For constipa-
tion and the ailments arising from it, I nna
them very good. My eldest daughter ha*
suffered from Indigestion, and one or two
doses of Indian Root Pills give her almost
immediate relief. I always now keepthe
in the house, and would not be witnoni
them. You may use this if you wish to
publication purposes.”*
w
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
gdf
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARP-E.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
When Mclntosh, of Sydney, opened his
mail the other morning he found a great cry from
the brethren in Westralia, saying, “Come over, and
help us!” They want to witness Langford and McVea
scrapping, and just now the man in the Stadium is
wondering if he can alter his programme so \hat the
Westralians will have a chance of seeing these
bruisers, of whom they have read so much, in the
flesh. # #
Among the passengers on the Ventura,
leaving Sydney on Saturday is Mr. W. J. Kelly, the
manager of Spaldings, Ltd., in Australia. He is off
to the great and chaotic U.S.A. on behalf of Mcln-
tosh. The stoush promoter has secured contracts with
both Johnson and Jeanette, and Kelly is to bring
these gentlemen back with him. This sort of thing
is necessary, as the colored brethren have a habit of
forgetting ’ all about contracts when someone else
comes along with a glittersome proposition. In fact,
they are more like great children than business men.
Mr.' Kelly goes armed with all the necessary powers
to enforce the iron-clad agreements Andrews obtained
for the Sydney promoter. When the bruisers are
safely roped in and landed here, Australia should
have a series of battles which will turn the Yankees
green with envy. By some curious mischance the
four best boxers of the world to-day are colored, and
every one of them will be seen in Australia in a
sort of fistic Armageddon for the world’s champion-
ship. It would be charming indeed if Johnson should
lose his world’s diadem in the same ring in which
he won it from Tahmmy Burns. And if the mailed
accounts of the fight between him and Flynn are
correct, then his grasp on the dignity is far from
secure. But, somehow, this writer does not expect
to see either Langford or McVea pull him down.
Jeanette is an unknown quantity to Australians. But
Langford beat him in 1906 in 15 rounds, drew with
him in 12 rounds in ’O7, drew with him again in
1908, and also fought a six-round no-decision scrap
at New York the same year. In 1910, Langford
again defeated him in 15 rounds, and in ’ll in 12
rounds. So, unless the gentle Joseph has improved
vastly since January, ’ll, he has no great chance,
on appearances, of downing Johnson —unless, of
course, Johnson has failed somewhat like unto
Jonah’s gourd. But in fighting anything is possible.
Since Mclntosh hutted into the fighting
game Sydney has seen some mixed brands of boxers,
but on August 31 it will be introduced to a decided
novelty in the shape of a French bruiser. Paul Til,
champion lightweight of the land of France, will
meet the winner of the McCoy-Read scrap. And it
is understood that Paul Til is merely the first warn-
ing drop of a shower of Gallic scrappers, who are to
arrive under the management of the hustling one.
* * * *
The Olympic Cycle Road Race round
Lake Malar, Sweden, was somewhat of a surprise
packet. General Opinion had spoken with a loud
voice that both the race ,and the fastest time prizes
would be won by the English team. But when the
dust had cleared away, the team in front was dis-
covered to be the despised Swedish one, and the
fastest time winner was G. R. Lewis, of S’Africa, the
only representative that sub-continent had present.
The road is described as being plain Sheol, and Lewis
fled over the 190 miles of it in lOhr. 42min. 30sec.
lie was chased home by F. H. Grubb, of Great
Britain, in Bmin. 54 l-ssec. more. The United
States supplied the third fastest man in C. O.
Schutte, with Leon Meredith, the famous English
rider, fourth. The rough road knocked out the Eng-
lish cyclists, who were accustomed to ideal roads,
whereas Lewis, of Africa, had been brought up, in a
cycling sense, on the worst roads in the world —worse
than the worst Australian ones, which is saying much.
He was the sole survivor of the Transvaal Elimination
Race, in which he represented the Rand Roads Club.
In the Olympic he took charge before passing the first
control, and made his own pace throughout, averaging
nearly 18 miles per hour. No Australian competed.
At last! G. Poulain, the ex-champion
world cycle sprinter, has succeeded in flying on a
pedal-driven aeroplane. In fact, he flew three times,
and the fact that the distance of each flight was only
39in., does not alter the fact that he did it. The
machine with which he accomplished the trick and
won the £4O prize offered by the French firm, was a
cvcopiane of his own construction, weighing about
251 b. It’s a triumph, no doubt; but it isn’t likely
to lead to any startling developments.
The road cyclists of Australia are grieved
over the abandonment of the Warrnambool; in fact,
some of them are mad about it, and are howling
that it is not yet too late. The Dunlop Rubber Co.
points out in reply that the dispute is not yet
settled, and that a race like the Warrnambool cannot
be arranged in a day. There is hardly time even
now to prepare for the contest; there will be none
by the time the row is glozed over. So there will be
no Warrnambool this year. The Dunlop Co. antici-
pates that the peace now being striven for will be a
lasting one when it arrives, and it, therefore, hopes
to see all competitors at the old stand next year.
The co. extends its sympathy to the hundreds of
riders who have been preparing throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland for the great event,
and assures them that to have carried out the Warr-
nambool would have only made a bad row worse, and
carried it into all the other States. Which is solid
fact. * »
Holbein, the man who nearly swam the
English Channel, was, a few years ago, one of the
finest long-distance cyclists of the world. When the
English team started for Stockholm to win the race
round Lake Malar, Holbein gave it his blessing and
some solid advice as to how to live and train. His
diet hints are interesting, arid should come in useful
to riders everywhere. In the early stages raw beef
sandwiches (scraped raw gravy beef), breast of
chicken,, bread and absolutely fresh butter, spread
thickly with sugar-cane-sugar being the finest
muscle tonic known. The menu to he varied with
rice, milk, barley-water, chocolate, milk with the
white pf a new-laid egg well beaten and sipped. This,
he declares, has far more food value than beef tea.
And for the last tremendous spurt for (say) the last
half-hour, and not more, an egg beaten up in about
four tablespoons of overproof brandy. The rider that
trains on that menu, and takes the final dope at the
psychological moment, will finish with a finish cal-
culated to stagger humanity—if the animal is not
quite beyond being staggered.
* * * *
The demand for motor-bikes with chair
attachments, in which to take out one’s best friend’s
wife, or any other lady who has been ordered to get
more fresh air, is likely to lead to developments.
These'chairs are to be seen everywhere, and on Sun-
days and Saturday afternoons, the roads that wind
among the orange groves of Parramatta, Pennant
Hills, and other parts of Sydney’s paradise, are
crowded with them. And it seems that Sydney’s
outer fringe is not the only part that has gone mad
on the motor-chair. The demand is found wherever
there are roads. But the chair has its drawbacks.
It makes, turning corners dangerous, and many a
pretty lady has given an ugly exhibition, upside-down
in the upper air, through the man on the engine cut-
ting the corner too finely. Some of the English
makers are experimenting with what might be called
a duo-car, with a little chassis made of cycle tubing,
fitted with cycle wheels and driven with the ordinary
motor-bike engine. A good many of them are run-
ning round the stately roads of England, and there
is a first-class opportunity for an Australian maker
to get busy on the same lines. Any man who can
turn out such an automobile at (say) £7O complete,
or less, should have as many orders as he would be
able to execute within the next two years. Of course,
there’s no 40-mile per hour stunt to be put up on
this class of machine, and it would be dangerous and
uncomfortable if there was; but there’s a pleasant
run at anything up to 18 miles per hour, a speed at
which one can get some views of the surrounding-
landscape, and take photographs. The motor-bike is
a lonely instrument; this new idea is distinctly
sociable. And it ought to become popular, tor, as
the Scripture sayeth, “It is not good for man to
mote alone!”
The Premiership of the N.S.W. Rugby
League remains with Eastern Suburbs, which on
Saturday overthrew North Sydney by 15 to 10.
Thereby it lifted its competition score to 24 points,
and so got right beyond pursuit. Glebe stamped with
both boots on Western Suburbs (34 to 18), and is
runner-up with 20 points. Newtown, after blowing
out the shining light of Balmain by 12 points to
nine, stepped in to share third place with South
Sydney, which busted Annandale by 11 to seven (16
points). Balmain and North are together with 12
each, having both been walloped on Saturday.
Annandale and Western Suburbs are brothers in
affliction with two points each.
The Rugby Union was responsible for
some one-sided games around Sydney on Saturday.
Glebe’s scrunching of North Sydney, by 41 points
to three, was not an edifying sight. For such a
score in the Union game means merely that one side
was down and out from the jump, and never had a
possible; a circumstance in which there is no joy.
In fact, there wasn’t a decent sporting event in the
whole category. University rolled up Manly by 17
points to six. Western Suburbs blighted St. George
by 27 points to five. Newtown dragged the corpse of
South Sydney around the walls by 23 to six. And
yet, paradoxically, some of the uneven games were
distinctly even the greater part of the time. In the
University-Manly struggle, for instance, Manly played
excellently and held its own for three-parts of the
game, and then went suddenly to pieces. At present
the competition stands thus: University is right on
top with 23 points; Western Suburbs has 22, and
Glebe and Newtown 21 and 20 respectively. These
four clubs will meet in the semi-finals after next
Saturday, and, by a process of destructive elimina-
tion, discover which is boss cocky.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Soccer team in Brisbane
played its final game on Saturday last, when it over-
whelmed the local defence and kicked out with three
goals to one. Queensland never seemed to have any
show, and at half-time the invaders had scored two
goals to nil. The telegraphed account was to the
effect that Queensland went to sleep in the second
half, but the results of the play indicate quite the
opposite. It was in the second half that Queensland
scored its solitary goal, and it was in the second
half that it scored equally with the Ma State. The
match was lost in the first half, when Ma established
its lead of two to nil. Altogether eight matches have
been played between the States since 1890, of which
N.S.W. is credited with five and Queensland with three.
This trip has been fairly successful from the N.S.W.
standpoint, Queensland being beaten twice and Bris-
bane once. The only defeat was at the boots of Ipswich
and West Moreton, which smashed up the invading
XI by four goals to two. In actual scoring the visit-
ing team kicked 10 goals to Queensland’s eight.
Only one match eventuated in the struggle for the
Rawson Cup, The Navy, owing to the movements
of the warships, posting a forfeit to Gran-
ville, and the conflict was between Newtown
and Sydney. Curiously enough, Newtown did
all the tackling, forced the game, and made
the pace —and got beaten by one goal to nil.
A remarkable match. For the Association Cup, West
Sydney battled with and overthrew Glebe by four
goals to one. Garden Island trod down the hopes of
the Y.M.C.A. by six goals to nil. The Police ran in
Newtown on a charge of tearing its jersey-# by four
goals to one. In the Rawson Cup riot, Sydney, Glebe
and Balmain stand in that order, with 16, 15, and 14
points each. In the Association Cup competition
things are more mixed, West Sydney and Balmain
running a dead heat, with 23 points each. No one
else has a show, the nearest competitors being Garden
Island with 12, and Glebe with 11. West Sydney
and Balmain have had an amazing run. Each team
has played 12 matches, lost none and drawn one.
West Sydney has scored 39 points to six, and Balmain
has kicked 41 to eight. Only blood and death can
end their infinite equality.
* * * *
It was Queensland’s unlucky day on
Saturday. The team of Bananalanders which de-
scended on Sydney, met a local XVIII under Aus-
tralian rules, at the Australian Ground, and was
cheerfully wiped out and rolled up by 130 points to
81. The trouble with the Queenslanders was the
same trouble that the N.S.W. men have when they
meet better trained teams. They lacked combined
play. In ordinary football combined play, is a
comparatively easy business. In Australian football
it isn’t, and calls for a lot of judgment, unflagging
vigilance and a first-class knowledge of the game.
In fact, it is human chess, and men who play Aus-
tralian football have to have the machinery with
which thinking is done.
“Adelaide” : The Vic. football XVIII that
came to play S.A. this year was a Jekyll and Hyde
sort of team. For just seven minutes after half-time
it took possession of the play, and did as it
liked. All the rest of the game it was merely pretty
good—easily behind the home team in effectiveness.
Of its total of six goals four were got in that spasm
of success. (Presumably it had, at half-time, drunk
something intensely stimulating, but quick to work
off.) Final scores: S.A., nine goals eight behinds;
Victoria, six goals seven behinds. Thus were the
recent placings in Melbourne reversed. (This, by the
way, was Vic. League. S.A. had a contract with the
Ass., but —being accused at the Carnival last year of
blacklegging on the other Leagues—it has called that
contract off.) Melbourne University—which is a
League team, and had one man in the inter-State —-
beat Adelaide Students badlv two days later. The
latter are not allowed into the local League, for fear
of damaging the strict district system.
The International Tug-of-Mar Carnival
will rage in Sydney at the new and beautified
Stadium of Hugh D. Mclntosh, from Saturday, Sep-
tember 28, to Saturday, October 12. It will
perform in four distinct and separate div-
isions. The first division will be the great
international struggle, with £4OO tor the
first prize, £lOO for the second and £5O for the
third ; also gold medals and sashes for the winning
team and captain. Next in importance is that tussle
called “All Comers’ Championship of N.S.W., in
which the tuggers will be endorsed representatives
of their trades and callings. The lure in this case
is £l5O, £5O, and £25, with gold medals for the
winners. The other two divisions are for the foot-
bailers on one part and the army, navy, police and
firemen on the other part. Each carries a £3O first
and £lO second prize, and the usual gold medals.
In fact, the night the prizes are handed over, the
Stadium will glitter like a pawnshop front window,
and a really enterprising highway operator, who
could arrange to hold up the whole meeting, should
get away with about half a ton of gold medals.
“Ganesha” : During Show Week in Mel-
bourne, more than a hundred cockies will collect in
a large hall, and push polished pieces of pine across
diagonal squares in deadly conflict with city dwellers.
For Show week is the time the annual town and
country match between the champions of draughts
transpires. Draughts brings together a much more
picturesque crowd than chess. The ages of the
players range from nine to 90. What other game
can boast such variety? But the town players
usually win, owing, it is said, to the country players
losing a king or two in their whiskers.
S.A. Jockey Club decided at its annual
meeting to consider the question of appointing sti-
pendiary stewards; this, in spite of the protest of
one well-known member that they had been “a miser-
able failure in N.S.W. and Victoria; had caused a
lot of trouble and had done no good.” The Adelaide
Racing Club is keen to have them, but has to wait
for the S.A.J.C., as the ruling body in the State, to
bring all clubs into line. It is suggested that
Broken Hill will contribute £2OO a year towards the
scheme. The Jockey Club committee promised also
to “very earnestly consider” the abolition of the
ladies’ totalisator. Certain high moral reasons and
attitudes are assigned for this movement, and these
may be taken with a grain of salt or otherwise.
The present plight of jockey Wootton in
England recalls the position of Fred Archer any time
from 25 to 30 years ago. He was quite the best of
English riders, and in an age when honesty was
rather less common than at present he was admir-
ingly called “The Tinman,” because he always went
for the tin. But in the process of going for it he
was apt to take the shortest road home, and Tittle
jockey boys alongside often found it healthier to
make a gap for the great Mr. Archer rather than
risk being bumped over the rails. However, his
honesty, and his influence, kept him out of trouble.
Wootton has been less lucky.
When the Canadian cadets appeared sud-
denly in Australia, on their own responsibility, the
N.S.W. Football League (Australian Rules) rushed
into what seemed a fairly large breach, and did the
best it could to interest the kiddies. Not only did
the League organise a series of entertainments, but
it battled round with the cold shoulder of Premier
McGowen to get free passes over tram and railways ;
and, finally, found free quarters for the whole crowd,
excepting three or four officers, from August 4 till
August 12. Then the S. M. Herald arose, and,
without mentioning any name, practically smote the
Football League for taking on more than it could
carry out. The Ancient Lady of Hunter-street seemed
to be under the impression that the Football League
had invited the cadets to Australia, whereas that
body had nothing to do with the coming of the
party. As it was the Canadian captain complained that
his boys had not been made over-welcome; but, had
the Football League not rushed in, it seems that the
blessed and ill-provided cadets would have had to
sleep in the Domain, or buy a few clothes-lines to
hang upon in one of the outlying parks. The
alleged , ill-treatment of the Canadians is a mild thing
compared to the Herald’s handling of the Football
League in the matter.
* * * *
The tennis item of the week is that the
English Association has cabled that its trusty and
well-beloved Dixon, Lowe, Park and Beamish will
swoop down on Melbourne in November, in pursuit
of the Davis Cup. The Yankee Association is doubt-
ful if it can scrape together a team. The Australian
selector, Norman Brookes, will be a grave and pre-
occupied man for some little time hence.
Last Saturday Charles Weyman, of
N.S.W., broke through the awful record of seconds
which has blighted his athletic career, by gathering
in the Australasian Cross-Country Championship at
Brisbane. The starters included champions of
N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania. Wey-
man won with 20vds. to spare from W. Hamilton, of
Queensland, and also galloped ahead of F. Flowers,
J. Dalgleish and T. Wood, all of N.S.W., with a
Tasmanian wildly driving home the crowd. In the
teams’ race N.S.W. took the glory, with 35 points,
and Queensland, Victoria and Tasmania (at the sec-
tion that wags the dog) lost it.
Some sparkling second-place dividends
brightened up the lives of punters at the Adelaide
(S.A.) Grand National Meeting on Saturday. A
prad, with the horrible name of Amgoorie, returned
the inspired investor £63 12s. for second place in
the Steeple, while the other divs. for minor positions
were Playgirl £lO Bs., Waipuna £8 65., and Murillo
Rose £7 ss. It was a day to make a punter more
enraptured with the Tote than a new bridegroom is
with a rich maiden aunt.
* * * *
Less than two days sufficed England to
make mincemeat of the South Africans in the third
and last encounter. The Springboks took first knock
on a passable wicket, but Tancred, the African skip-
per, registered an innumerable blob, and started a
procession, in which Taylor and Snooke (23 each)
were the only double figures. The beggarly total of
95 contained no less than 11 sundries. Most hor-
rible ! Barnes bumped them in with a venomous
swing, to the tune of five for 28, in 21 overs and
19 maidens. Woolley sent along 15J overs and one
maiden of left-handed, slow curlers, and bagged five
for 41. England started no better than S’Africa,
one of the first pair, even Rhodes, vanishing for the
boundless caravan of the duck’s egg. Hobbs remained
till he was 68, but the others didn’t bother much.
A quick and lively win was more important than a
flash total. The only other double figures were:
Spooner 26, J. W. Ilearne 20, Woolley 13 —total 176.
Again 11 sundries. The S’Africans were only 81
behind, but they only escaped an innings defeat by
the timely aid of that aged and invincible warrior,
Sundries. ’ Barnes banged in deadlier shots than be-
fore, and shifted eight for 29 in 16£ overs, with four
maidens; leaving Woolley one for 24, and Foster one
for 19. Nourse alone withstood the onslaught of the
Anak of Staffordshire, his left-handed crouch serving
him for 42 runs. Then Foster got him. Faulkner
reached 10, and the rest made a pathetic string of
globes and single figures —all bar Sundries, whose 21
made the total 93. That left England 13 to get.
Hobbs (nine n. 0.) and Hearne (five n. 0.) did the
needful in a few minutes, and England won by 10
wickets. S’Africa thus retired from the Triangular
Series. It was beaten three times by England and
twice by Australia, and its third match with Aus-
tralia was a draw.
* * * *
Gloucestershire was the last Australian
fixture prior to this week’s final Test with England
Rain delayed the start on the first day till after
i p.m., but —echo it; blare it far and wide'
Gregory won the toss!
* * * *
Ex-Australian skipper Harry Trott. who
barracked loudly for the Sorry Six and against the
Board of Control, is “organising” a sort of team to
visit Wellington (M.L.) the coming season. Two
whose names are mentioned as “certainties,” are
those young and promising players, F. Laver and M
Noble. It is a purely private enterprise affair, and
Wellington Cricket Association is preparing to re-
ceive it with open arms and gates. Is there no
reciprocal arrangement between the Australian Board
of Control and the ruling body of Maoriland cricket?
If there isn’t there ought to be; and, anyhow, it's
mighty bad taste on the part of the Maorilanders to
recognise a private team of players—a team known
to be organised and controlled by, if not composed
of, men hostile to the Australian ruling body.
The downfall of Leichardt on Saturday
before the howl and rush of University, in Sydney
baseball, by nine runs to eight, knocked the premier-
ship figures into new shape. At the end of the fifth
innings, ’Varsity appeared to be in the mock-turtle,
with six runs to nil on the board against it; but, In-
consistent plugging, it pulled the match out of the
fire in the 10th innings. Petersham chewed Padding
ton in the only place where it had a look-in for the
bauble, by 15 runs to three. The premiership figures
now are: University, 20 points; Leichhardt, 18;
Petersham, 16 ; and the balance of the clubs are, as
Brother Chapzander would say, “beyond the hope of
glory.”
Barry has accepted the challenge of Aus-
tralian champion Harry Pearce to row lor the scull
ing championship of the world, and announces that
he is ready to shove his splinter through the water
at any time. A previous cable told us that Barry
would -not allow expenses, in which case there will
probably be a deadlock. Hitherto, Barry has had
more than enough trouble to raise the stake, so pro-
bably his announcement that he will allow no exes,
is merely a case of making the position plain. In other
words, he hasn’t any expenses about him to allow.
Why he should have chosen Pearce, who is about the
toughest customer around just now, as far as can be
.judged, is inexplicable. The fact argues that Barry
is not a natural money-maker. Had he been so he would
probably have taken on the sometime Wanganui won-
der, Webb. The first thing a champion should do these
gilded day's is to look round for ail the cheap money,
gather it in, and then go for the difficult stuff that
is brightened up by the presence of glory. Webb
seems to be a very spent volcano these days; but he
has £5OO of the best to lose, or someone else has it
for him. The hardy tugger of the Thames seems to
have overlooked the fact.
The Bill which had the quickest pass-
age through the S.A. Assembly this session
is the one creating six billets for members on
the Railways Standing Committee, with
comfortable fees and liberal travelling ex-
penses.
Melbourne continues to burst into erup-
tions of street rockeries, which Carlo Catani.
Victorian Public Works engineer, once de-
scribed in his mellifluous Anglo-Italian as
“the stone age of gardening.” Hardly a
suburban street nowadays but is trans-
formed into the semblance of a macadam-
ised waistcoat with a row of stone buttons
down the middle, all in the sacred name of
municipal gardening. The City Council is
expectorating on its hands (purely by
proxy, in order not to offend against the
by-law), and is trussing up its bowyang?
preparatory to forming a plantation budded
upon a rock at the intersection of Moles-
worth, Harris and Curzon streets, West
Melbourne. Meanwhile, the designers of
that portion of the city, aware that this
form of art will cost £3OO, want to know
why some of the rocks that will make the
city beautiful are not being pounded into
road metal to repair the dreadful highways
and low ways and middle ways in the same
ward. Perhaps when a councillor’, return-
ing home by a late windy moonlight, has
been manhandled by one of the hoodlums
that are beginning- to infest these rockeries
o’ nights, much as the Great Auk fre-
quented the Allalonestone in Kingsley s
fairy story, the City Council will be Sony n
spoke. Meanwhile, Town Clerk John Clay--
ton’s report, never published in the news-
papers, is treasured as the cliiefest jewel in
his soft hat by Billy Maloney, M.H.R., who
wrote to the local ’Erald, t:he_ other day.
saying what a valuable report it was, and
how it translated municipal management
into the realms of High Art.


X •
m
. ..
m
mm
■
ms.
m
: ■.
m
r"i lIS
ikrV
;
si
0
A
mm
r
l¥'S»
- ■ ;
,
'' v
■
IS-S'
RSUf
ji
w
-■ " ' -
•- :.S.j
The
E volution
of a
Marshall
Style
The
Boao
pal Coif
blucher Ox/ords
22 x o
Write for Style Book
MARSHALL SHOE CO. Ltd.
Richmond, Victoria
.
0m
9
The Experience
of 97 Years
in Every Bottle.
ITS
You and Your Health!
gd
What are YOU doing to ensure a maintenance of
the feeling of the joy of living that follows the pos-
session of GOOD HEALTH ?
Are YOU content to amble along, trusting to luck
to continue in your present state; or are YOU
sufficiently mindful of your welfare to make pro-
vision for your future health by building up your
vital organs, so that you may be better able to resist
fatigue and LIVE LONGER?
Mv Postal Course of Physical Exercises are scien-
tifically applied to the muscular system, so that they
nourish and increase the vitality of the whole body,
and do not build up any one part at the expense of
the other.
My daily mail always contains appreciative letters
from students who are benefiting from my instruc-
tion.
Here .is an example:—
“There is no doubt they are splendid exercises
to keep you fit. I have never felt better in my
life.
“G. McC., Deniliquin, N.S.W.”
I offer you something that will benefit every inch
of your body—in short, an insurance of good health
by natural methods — judicious exercise.
Now, you are not so thoughtless of your self-
preservation, or of those dependent upon you, that
you will NOT take the trouble to write me for
further information respecting my methods and
terms.
Ask for my interesting folder, “Five Feet of
Facts.” Kindiy send 3d. in stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
53 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
90
ZI/
0^
yj
HELL
The product of
one source only
More miles on “ Shell" than
oo any other.
Its perfect purity that’s
the point*
“Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
OXYGEN.
EXTENSIVE works are at present under
construction near Sydney for the pro-
duction of Oxygen by the Liquid Air Pro-
cess. The whole of this plant has been
supplied by the BRITISH OXYGEN COM-
PANY, LTD., Westminster. London, which
possesses all the British and Colonial rights
of the Linde patents for this process, and
lias established Oxygen Works in the princi-
pal manufacturing cities of the United King-
dom.
In a few weeks this plant will be produc-
ing Oxygen in large quantities of unsur-
passed purity, suitable for medical, labora-
tory and all industrial purposes, at ex-
tremely moderate rates.
Complete Outfits are stocked of the most
up-to-date type for welding and cutting steel
and other metals by the Oxy-Acetylene pro-
cess.
Agents :
FYVIE (SL STEWART,
362 Collins Street, Melbourne.
225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THE Best Stories written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
fg
An Abyss of Despair
seems to be the lot of the chronic pile sufferer, until Murphy’s Pile Pills
are brought into use.
These Pills are assuredly the most rational and effective of all known
remedies for the relief and cure of Piles. They supersede ointments, out-
ward applications and operations.
The action of Murphy’s Pile Pills is to cleanse the blood and system
of all poisons and clogging matter, soothe the inflamed parts, and absorb
the Piles away.
Sold everywhere by chemists and storekeepers; or may be ordered
direct. Pull directions and testimonials accompany each box. Price, 3/-
per box, post free. Sole Proprietors: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept-
8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
00 (double‘o")
STYLE, PUS SERVICE AND COMFORT,
is what you get in every Rigney Shoe.
Rigney Shoes are made for men who like
style, character and exclusiveness in their
footwear, because these men know that a
man may be otherwise faultlessly attired,
yet have the WELL-DRESSED effect en-
tirely spoiled by a pair of ordinary looking
shoes.
The Shoe illustrated is a very fine patent
walking or dress boot —the latest style.
Price
and
Postage 9d. Extra.
Send for a Copy of our Catalogue.
dfg
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney


A. SAUNDERS’ JEWELLERY
IS FAMED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA FOR ITS WONDERFUL BEAUTY,
EXCLUSIVENESS—AND VALUE.
LET US SEND YOU OUR FREE CATALOG—AND REMEMBER WE PAY POSTAGE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bct Gold PENDANT, set
Pearls and Turquoise,
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX,
5/6
Smaller, 4/6.
£4/10/
£5/10/-
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half Hun-
ter Keyless WATCH, full-
jewelled, extra heavy,
£4/10/.
Higher Grade, £5/10/.
Guaranteed 3 years’ FREE
Repair.
a. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold “Lilv of the Valley” Spray
BROOCH, fine white Pearls,
£4-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold BRACELET, Fancy Basket Pattern, Strong
Safetv Chain attached,
' £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BAR BROOCH, Nicely Engraved,
Any Initial,
5/6.
m
m
fA
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL,
15/.
15ct Gold, 30/;
Silver, 2/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Circle BROOCH,
set Pearls and Turquoise,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold LINKS,
10/G
15ct Gold, 25/.
£6/10/
£6/10/-
A. SAL.NOi.KS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Expanding WATCH BRACELET, the
Latest Design, lever movement, full jewelled, accurate,
reliable,
£O/10/.
A.
Gold TOOTH-PICK,
SAUNDERS.
12/6
Larger, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS,
20/.
Initials Engraved Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold, set Pearls, Tur-
quoise, Red or Blue Stones,
SO/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold
PENDANT,
set Fine White
Pearls and
Turquoise,
32/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT,
set Fine White Pearls
and Peridot or
Tourmalines,
£3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PIN and
STUD, Pearls and
Diamond,
35/-
A. SAUNDERS.'
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS, set Pearls
and Aquamarines or
Peridot or Coral,
25/.
9et Gold BRACE
LET, set Pearls
Amethyst, or
Topaz,
A . SAUNDERS.
40/-
S>et Gold Pendant, set
Amethysts and Pearls,
40/-
9ct Gold Pendant, set
Amethysts and Pearls,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold DOUBLE ALBERT,
£3, £3/5/, £3/10/, £4.
15ct Gold, £5/15/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/.
A. SAUNDEKS.
9ct Gold “Curb” Muff CHAIN,
£3/10/, £4, £5/10/.
TEST
YOUR
OWN
SIGHT
WITH
OUR
FREE
HOME
EYE
TEST
CHART.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Pure
Double-cut Diamonds
£ 15-
ißisjii
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, set Dia-
monds, Rubies, or
Sapphires,
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Wed-
ding RING*:
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
25/.
SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 3 Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£5-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Band RING,
set Red, Green, or
Blue Stones,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dou-
ble Heart, Opal
and Diamonds,
£4710/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Signet
RING, Square and
Compass or other
Emblem,
22/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACE-
LET, set Fine
Opals,
£5/10/-
A. SAUNDJSRS.
Silver
HAT PIN,
Amethyst
Thistle,
2/-
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, set Parisian
Diamonds,
S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and
Brilliants,
p/e.
25/-
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, -Opiate, full
jewelled, patent adjusted bal-
ance, 25/-
Extra Jewelled Movement,'3o/.'
Guaranteed 1 year’s free repair.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Double ALBERT,
£3, £3/5/, £3/10/, £i-
£6. £7/10/, £B/10/.
CATA-
LOGS
OF
SILVER-
PLATE
AND
LEATHER
GOODS
POST
FREE
ANY-
WHERE.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot Gold BROOCH, five Pure White double-
cut Dianmonds,
-£2O-
20/-
\
wr
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless Lever TIME
KEEPER, full-jewelled, patent adjusted balance
non-magnetic time spring, dust and water
proof cases,
20/-
Guaranteed 1 year’s free repairs.
20/-
15ct Gold BROOCH,
Tourmalines or
21/.
set Green
Rubies,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Scroll BROOCH, pure Dia-
monds, Pearls, Rubies, or Sapphires,
£5/aO/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold
NECKLACI
set Pearls
and
Ametliysts.
Cold
NECKLACE,
set Pearls
md
Amethysts.
A. SAUNDERS.
yet Gold Floral Spray BIt.OOCH, set Pearls
and Amethyst,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, pure double-cut
Diamonds,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot Gold BROOCH, set pure double-
cut Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£4/10/.
50/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Patent Gold-cased Hunting Keyless
Waltham WATCH, full jewelled, compensa-
tion balanae. An Excellent Watch
50/-
Guaranteed 3 Years’ Free Repair.
50/-
0
}
r m
- SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815,815,817, GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
JEWELLER/
UtfCH iClOQfj
CmakerZ
• SILVERSMITH
cpHSULTMfc
Wtician,


The Newest KODAK —
The Vest Pocket KODAK!
The Smallest
KODAK Made.
Always with you —
never in the way.
A Wonderful
Example of what
can be done in the
saving of bulk and
weight.
The newest and most compact of all Kodaks —outside
measurements are iin. x 2sin. x 43^111. —so flat, so
smooth, and so small that it readily fits a man’s vest
pocket ; dainty enough for a lady’s handbag. It is
simple enough for the beginner ; accurate enough for the
experienced amateur.
The Vest Pocket Kodak is not made small so that we can produce a cheap
camera ; it is made small for convenience, and the small price is simply the
result of our manufacturing facilities.
The pictures that this dainty little Kodak makes measure lfin.
x 2\ in., but owing to the excellent definition given by the lens
enlargements can be readily made. No dark room is required,
and no previous experience is necessary. Price, 35/"
Send for descriptive booklet.
df
©
So.
m
m
m
V//M
i IH
m
i
-y/s,
mi
wm>
Actual Size
of Vest Pocket
KODAK.
OjDA Hl (Australasia) L» TT ]D
Incorporating Baker (8X Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346. Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.
IN the days of our grandparents,
there was a general idea that sore
throats were due to draughts and
wet or cold weather.
People who had a genius for catch-
ing sore throats (as so many of us
have to-day !) always took great care
to muffle up their throats, to avoid
draughts, and to wear a respirator
during cold, wet, or foggy weather.
Yet they still went on catching sore
throat!
Nowadays, we realise that sore
throat is an infectious ailment which
has very little to do with the weather.
Cold, damp weather may be one of
the causes of sore throat, but only
because it lowers our vitality, and
makes us susceptible to the microbes
of sore throat —that is all.
These microbes or germs are the
true active causes of sore throat, as
they are of those dread infectious
diseases diphtheria, consumption
of the lungs, measles, and sparlet
fever.
The Germs of Sore Throat.
These germs are only too plentiful,
especially at this time of the year.
We meet them every day, every
hour, in every public telephone, in
every public conveyance, in every
crowded, stuffy place where we may
breathe the germ-laden breath of
sufferers from sore throats, convales-
cents, and people sickening for some
infectious disease.
At last, however, science has given
us a safeguard against these risks.
There has now been produced a
germ-killing throat lablet which
HOW SORE THROATS ARE CAUGHT
And How to Cure and Prevent Them.
cleanses the mouth and*throat from
disease germs as easily and as rapidly
as dirt is removed from the skin. It
is called Wulfing’s Formamint, and
can be tested by anyone without ex-
pense. (See note at the end of this
article.) No one susceptible to sore
throat who has not already tried
Formamint should delay to do so ;
for Wulfing’s Formamint is a trust-
worthy cure for that complaint, as
well as a preventive of infectious
diseases.
To understand the value of this
discovery, we must remember that
all germs including the most
deadly ones like
the Diphtheria
B a c i 1 li —a re
living particles
of vegetable life,
ext remely
minute, but visi-
ble under high
powers of the
microscope. For
their proper de-
velopment, these
seeds or germs
must find a
“suitable soil.”
This they have
in the soft lining
of the mouth and
throat, which
gives them the
warmt h and
moisture they
need.
In such a re-
ceptive soil,
germs will flou-
rish like the pro.
verbial green bay
tree, until they
multiply into
whole colonies.
gdf
g
The above picture shows how the germs which
cause tore throat and tonsillitis are destroyed by
means of the germ-killing throat tablet described in
this article. The round plate, coated with a sub-
stance on which disease germs quickly develop, was
inoculated with the serms of sore throat, which
immediately began to grow. The right half of the
plate was then treated with saliva from a person
who had sucked three tablets of Formamint —the
germ-killing throat tablet. The result was that all
the germs on it were destroyed, while those on the
left hand (not treated with Formamint) grew
luxuriantly. Exactly the same thing happens in
the mouth of people who suck Formamint Tablets —
the germs are quickly killed and sore th.oat is
easily cured and pi evented.
In the case of an ordinary sore throat,
they merely produce symptoms of
pain and discomfort, which quickly
disappear when a few Formamint
Tablets are sucked.
If, however, the germs are of a
more harmful kind, they produce
certain poisons which get in to the
blood and set up diseases like
diphtheria, scarlet fever, or
measles.
This is where the value of Forma-
mint lies as a diseas a-preventive, for
Formamint is the most effectual
method known to Science of killing
these germs in the mouth and throat
before they become dangerous.
It should be clearly understood,
however, that
Formamint is not
a cure for such
diseases as diph-
theria, when
once they have
established
themselves in
the system.
But there is
no doubt what-
ever that, if
taken in time,
Formamint will
certainly pre-
vent diphtheria
and kindred
germ - diseases,
even though one
has actually
been in close
contact with the
patient. For this
reason, doctors,
nurses and sani-
tary inspectors
always take
Formamint Tab-
lets when they
have a case of in-
fectious disease.
Many distinguished persons have
publicly testified to the value of
Formamint. To take only a few
examples :
Remarkable Letters from Prominent
People.
Ford Glantawe writes: “I have
been using Formamint for sore throat
with most satisfactory results.”
Madame Adelina Patti writes : “I
have taken Formamint Tablets for
some time past, and have found them
very beneficial to the throat.’’
Mr. C. C. Hutchinson, K.C,
writes : “ Through the great benefit
I have derived from Formamint
Tablets, I have recommended them
for sore throat to hundreds of other
people.”
It is this personal recommendation
which has done so much to spread
Formamint’s fame far and wide, and
none are more enthusiastic about it
than doctors and scientists them-
selves. Among the latter several
have made exhaustive laboratory
experiments with Formamint, one of
the most recent of which is depicted
in the centre of, this article.
It should be noted that there is no
duplicate or substitute for Forma-
mint, because Wulfing’s Formamint
marks the discovery of a new
chemical compound, which is manu-
factured by a patented process and
can only be produced by the firm of
Messrs A. Wu fing & Co. The
real thing is sold by all Chemists,
in bottles containing 50 tablets. To
prevent substitution, the purchaser
should specify Wulfing’s Formam.nt.
(Note. —Any reader of this article who lias not yet
tried Formamint, and would like to do so, is requested
to write to the makers, Messrs. A. Wulfing & Co., 17
Bond Street, Svdney, N.S.W., who will be pleased to
send a free sample and an interesting handbook.
Kindly mention The Bulletin when writing, and
enclose two penny stamps towards postage.)


BE STRONG on
SCOTTS
Emulsion
Year after year Scott’s Emul-
sion maintains an unrivalled
reputation. Why? Just be-
cause no other emulsion
approaches SCOTT’S in purity,
quality or strength—or gives
such definite and certain resu Its.
FOR
all weaknesses,
colds, coughs,
bronchitis and
chest troubles.
SCOTT’S Emulsion never fails.
Doctors recommend SCOTT’S.
Nurses praise SCOTT’S.
Mothers write to say how
valuable SCOTT’S has been
to their children. These are
reasons why you should make
sure you get only the genuine
article. SCOTT’S Emulsion is
as good_ for_ adults
as for children.
But it must be SCOTT’S, imitations
may look the same, yet lack the purity
and strength which are essential fea-
tures of genuine SCOTT’S Emulsion
df
When you see the
name SCOTT’S
Emulsion on the
front of the package
and this trade mark
on the back -you
KNOW you really
have got genuine
Scott’s Emulsion.
Of all Chemists and
Medicine Dealers.
ANOTHER FAMOUS DOCTOR TESTIFIES
TO THE VALUE OF
SAMOL
for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and Kin-
dred Complaints. Dr. J. Doberer, Director of the
Hospital of the “Brothers of Mercy,” Linz, writes: —
“I applied Samol and Salimenthol in the case of
a patient suffering from a general attack of rheuma-
tism of the joints, and who had a temperature of
over 104 F. In the course of 10 days under this
treatment all troubles disappear. The quick, sooth-
ing effect of Samol was amazing.”
SAMOL
is the result of research work of a celebrated Aus-
trian physician, Dr. Scheuble, of Vienna, who has
received many honors for his discoveries.
Samol is sold in tubes, price 1/6, 3/9, and 6/-,
and the Salimenthol Tablets in cylinders, price 3/6,
and Can be ordered through any chemist, or obtained,
post free, from the Australian agent, H. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Brisbane; or
Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland. [1
AllcocK!s
PLASTERS
A UNIVERSAL REMEDY
For Pains in the Back.
Equally effective for all sorts
of aches and pains, the result
of taking cold, over-exertion
or strain.
Constipation, Biliousness, Indipestion, etc.
Brandreth's Pills
entirely vegetable.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CGI»
Birkenhead, ENGLAND.
The Australian
Arrol-Johnston
Specially Designed.
AN Australian pup, from the famous breed of
“ J 5-9 ” Arrol-Johnstons that won the team
award in the \9\\ International Light Car
Race, and obtained record orders from H.M* War
Office for cross-country work*
A
Australian agents Sydney : Eves & Crowie;
ADELAIDE : Murray Aunger, Ltd.; BRISBANE : Howard Cycle
& Motor Co.; PERTH: Perth Motor House ; HOBART: H. C.
Heathorn & Co.; MELBOURNE: Essendon Motor Garage, Moonee
Ponds. 4k
The Workmanship Is the Most Skilful In Australia.
SEE ...
ABERDEEN^
the TARPAULINS You Buy.
The brand “Aberdeen”
(Regd.) is a sure and safe sign
that the Tarpaulin is all you could
possibly expect of it—even though
it only costs a moderate price.
These are the class a man can
recommend with every confidence
to a personal friend. They are
strong, lasting, built for REAL
service, stout stitching—best
canvas.
Obtainable from all Storekeepers.
Buy only “ABERDEEN” (Regd.) Tents, Water Bags, Saddle Bags, Verandah Bags 8 Filters.
Smith, Copeland & Co., Ltd.,
204-0 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
&
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic, a
genuine tonic It gives you an
even, steady gain, day by day ,
Makes the blood rich and red.
gdf
COUNTRY
HOUSE
LIGHTING.
The key to efficient
lighting, heating and
cooking is to instal a
system that is eco-
nomic, simple, safe
and reliable. The At-
moslite air-gas system
fulfils all these re-
quirements. Write for
particulars now.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.j
I U /' I
PBSI
: •
SM|
H
mm
i ■
: ■
I*l Ail
mu m
CHAMPIONS
VINEGAR
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing."
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS
nwiiidq
es
UjunqToii
le
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for " OWBRIDGE’S”
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL. ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
mi
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
Fountain Pen
One of the good things of the
World. Helps you to other
good things, too. For Water-
man’s Ideal so speeds your
writing work that you have
more leisure at your disposal.
If time is of value to you, at
once obtain this—the Worlds
great Time-saver.
Over 1,000,000
Waterman’s Ideals
Purchased Yearly.
That shows what the W >rld
thinks of Waterman’s Ideal !
In 4 Sty'es— tegular nd Self-Filling,
12,6 and upwards ; Safety and Pump-
Filling, 15/- and upwards-
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
UNCWIMEOMONEY&PKOPERTY.
nOUftAL’S KRHISThR to NFXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY H EIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., Ac., price
i 5/-, 480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers,Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
QOUCAL& CO., 151 STRAND. LONDON, ENCLAND.
[ ( platablishp.rl nyerfiO Years,)
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Blackman: Your authority doesn’t know
his subject, and you apparently don’t know enough
to see his blunders. A few examples: (1) Briton
didn’t “abandon Protection’’ in 1546. In 1842-45,
390 duties were abolished; 54 were abolished in
1846 ; 123 in 1853 ; and 371 in 1800. A lot more
were abolished in 1872. The chief event of ’46 was
the reduction of the wheat duty. (2) The lowest
tariff the U.S. has had was that of 1857 —not the
Walker tariff of 1846, in which the duties' ran up to
75 per cent. (3) The vagrant wus known in the
comparatively Freetrade days of the U.S., and some
of the laws against him included flogging and sale
into slavery. (4) Apropos, the latest records show
—inmates of United States workhouses, 82,000;
inmates of workhouses in England and Wales alone.
298,000; also, England and Wales have 499,000 out-
door paupers and 676,000 old age pensioners. This
doesn’t include insane paupers. (6) Between 1900
and 1910 the U.S. gained 8,795,386 people by excess
of arrivals over departures, which was • the biggest
inflow in all its history. In the low-tariff period,
between 1840 and 1860, it gained only 1,713,261,
though it had then plenty of free land to give away.
Even if some Americans are going to highly pro-
tected Canada, it doesn’t seem to matter much.
Britain is the great exporter of population. (6)
The U.S. ranks next to Britain among the world’s
shipowners, and it has also a big lien on a lot of
steamship lines which are still called British. In
fact, the British Government got down to subsidis-
ing the Cunard Co. in order to prevent all the best
Atlantic ships becoming Yankee in fact, though not
in name. Still, the U.S. lacks the cheap labor re-
quired in the shipping biz. (8) Some of the very
big U.S. Trusts (notably oil and rubber) were built
on a Freetrade basis. If you are not a student,
and don’t know where to look for information on
these points, you are referred to “Whitaker’s
Almanac,” the “Statesman’s Year Book,” Mulhall’s
“Dictionary of Statistics,” Webb’s “Dictionary of
Statistics,” Brown and Straus’s “Dictionary of
American Politics,” the new “Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica,” etc Dano: Please send your obituary
notice while the corpse is fresh. You say your man
was hit by a train on July 27.... H.: That state-
ment that “there are not three men in Syd-
ney now who could write ‘Hamlet,’ ” is a
chestnut. It has been told of many cities.
For that matter there isn’t one man in the world
now who could write Jawbone Neild’s “poetry.”
Why? Because Jawbone Neild’s poetry has already
been written. .. .Josh: After some hesitation we
threw out your ballad, on the ground that it, was
based on a fallacy, viz., that love-making does not
go on in what you call the “season desolate,” or, in
plain prose, Winter. Take it from us, Josh, this
fine old sport prevails all the year round. . . . A.F.H.:
Can’t say that the remark strikes us quite on the
right spot.... Bromide: What are you raving about
in six closely-written pages of boil-over? There wasn’t
a word in “Vulcan’s” par. re the elaborate pilfering
of goods in Sydney and Melbourne wharves or on
board ships, to suggest that the wharf laborers did
it. In fact, his description clearly indicated that it
was the work of professionals—artists at the game,
and men who were able to take their time over the
job....Euli (or something similar); “A par. cannot
live by veracity alone.” (Vide Inkslinger’s Bible,
verse 4, chapter xxi.). Also, “There is an inti-
mate relation between bald Truth and hopeless
Tripe” (ibid. v. 9, c. II.). One of the most un-
printable things we ever read was a meticulously
accurate description by an unusually conscientious
young Methodist divine of the experiences which
befel him while tending his aged mother through an
attack of dyspepsia. .. .Blair: Well for you that we
happened to be wearing our White Ribbon of a Curse-
less Life, when your batch of aged jokes arrived.
Had the ornament been inadvertently left at home,
you would have suffered such a linguistic denuncia-
tion as few humorists sustain and live... Dano: Every
one of your anti-bookie arguments has been used by
us already. .. .G.: You urge us to award “Mr. Ocky”
a prize for being The Bulletin-’s “most inaccurate
paragraphist,” and then go on to show that the
quotation, which was practically all there was to
his innocuous par., was correct in every detail. Go
to! You evince a lack of a sense of proportion or
something similar. .. .C.E.8.: Carefully pieced to-
gether, but the effect is not satisfactory.... Garry:
Too slight. .. .Fogarty: Get off the Inky Way. You
are obstructing the traffic. .. .S.P.: By your leave
we will omit them all. They "are right enough in
their way, but it isn’t our way. .. .H.C.C.: It cap-
sized before reaching Poverty Point... Soma: Honest,
but futile effort.... Havi: Don’t worry about that
sort of trivial verse. Glad to consider paragraphs
if you have any about you. You are in a place
where they should be plentiful... .Hopscotch: It fails
gracefully—swoons on the basket, so to speak....
Tolly: Poem went right out. .. .H.C.F.: Returning
MS. Not B. stuff. Try elsewhere....O.L.O.: Yes,
it may be true; but it is also tedious.... R. Can-
ning: A disconnected whoop. .. .W. 8.5.: Some
gleams, but it doesn’t get anywhere.... Oocrab:
Endorse gladly. Can’t print K.C.’i Not
yet. You may do better later on. Heaven only
knows if you will M.K.: A joke—howsoever
original—which requires five lengthy verbal sallies
apiece from the parties involved, ere its point is
sheeted home to the reader, will never get a footing
in this paper while the present staff has sufficient
health and strength to keep it out. And when the
staff dies that joke will be hunted out by its exe-
cutors, administrators, assigns, - and other lawful repre-
sentatives... K.: It suggests a fine subject for a de-
bating society: Suppose Lazarus had been Dives and
Dives had been Lazarus, how would they have panned
out! Z. 8.: We specially like the line, “And
they must have sent buckets and buckets.”
Talia: “Told at O’Grady’s” has some promise. Re-
write and condense. .. .E.G.: Your twins are most
immoral people, and are rightly punished by being
compelled to devote themselves to milk extraction...
Thurla: Your Shakspeare is right in the part where
the par. referred to was wrong, and all wrong where
the par. was right... .Mahalwyn: The bread which
might have been on the waters is now in the
basket.. Fraulein : Yarn of the old man getting wilder
and wilder under the dray was first told to comfort Job
in his affliction about 3561 b.c. It has been re-
peated at frequent intervals by Jews, Greeks, Par-
thians, Scotchmen, commercial travellers and Abo-
liars. The comps, absolutely refuse, on moral
grounds, to set it up.... Valerius: Verses could be
somewhat worse. Also, they could be a lot better.
“Noah” declines courteously, but firmly, to rhyme
with “o’er.”. .. .O’Regan: Don’t specially blame the
Professor of Music for publishing your song. If it
resembled “An Adoration,” he might be able to
make sense of bits of it. ...Bullswool: You want us
to say what is wrong with your verses. Sorry, but
there is not enough room in this paper.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
K.M.C. (W.A.): Anyone could have done it, but
the crime is yours. When next we want a drawing
of a tangled fishing line we will remember y0u....
John B.: The sketches are all right. The gags
(alas!) aren’t T.E.G,: That “better days” gag is
past the first radiance of youth. In fact it has one
leg in the grave and has lost the other leg. .. .H.T.:
A picture of an English Johnny out shooting with a
strictly English gamekeper lacks the atmosphere of
originality. In fact, it makes one marvel if it isn’t
a copy... .5.8.: Don’t know where that “Woman’s
Work” joke started, but it has come to this office
till we are weary of seeing it. Fain would we bash
it most horribly on the cranium with an axe, and
then tie a grindstone to its remains and heave it hor-
ribly into the Dead Sea... .Yalgun: Where did you
cull that fatherly old jest ?.... Ken Pum: This seems
to be our week for receiving chestnuts and ancient
streaks of humor. The youth who said “there ain t
going to he no core in this apple,” died last week.
He tripped over his own avalanche of grey whiskers
and broke his neck.


So
%
X
Cm
£
(A
This is the Day of the
Non-Skid, and the
“ Semelle”
is the Non-Skid of To-day,
A non-skid constructed on the lines
of the Michelin “ Semelle ” is now
universally admitted to be
THE NON-SKID
PAR EXCELLENCE.
Others have tried to copy it —but
have failed.
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained from all the Leading Garages.
o
o
No. 40
“COLCRYST”
IS
USEFUL
By purifying the blood, GOLCRYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GODCRYST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, liquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Rackets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Free sample
sent by proprietors, Kocke, Xompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :—W.A., Neale, Con-
stable and Co., Perth ; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,”
Adelaide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney. [2
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wb Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
gdf
BEWARE
OF
DROPPERS
weakened by holes or cut-out slots ;
THEY SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
“ Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
WEDGE-CLIPS AND LOOPS MAY BE USED ON THE SAME DROPPER.
CHEAPEST DROPPER ON THE MARKET.
If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to—
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Leicester & Queensberry Streets, CARLTON. MELBOURNE.
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
gd
fg
Works s Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
WHEN ORDERING
(Mn&&
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
IT’S YOUR
GUARANTEE
OF EXCELLENCE.
Brand’
Dominion Accordeons
Are.High=Grade Musical Instruments
and excel in their beauty of design,
solidity of construction, exactness of
tuning and superior quality of tone.
They range in price from 12/- to
30/-. ONE of the best is—
dfg
Dominion Accor-
deon, No. 117,
Size 11% x 6J4 ins.
Three sets reeds,
three acting stops.
Ninefold Triple Bel-
lows, with all cor-
ners metal bound,
polished ebonised
tops and mouldings.
Fitted with Brass
Amplifying Trumpets
on keyboard, very
powerful tone.
Price, 29/-
A«k for Complete Illustrated Catalogue
And name of nearest Agent.
Jackson & Macdonald
Druitt Street, Sydney


Very Itchy, Could Get No Rest, Night
or Day. Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. At Once Relieved of
Pain. Within a Fortnight, Skin
Was Clear and Smooth.
“I wish to say I was suffering for about
six weeks with a skin affection which broke
out all of a sudden in boils like water blisters
all over my body. In fact I was covered
from head to foot with them. They were
very itchy and when I scratched them, they
became very sore and I did not know what
to do, as I could get no rest night or day, the
pain being terrible. I tried different kinds
of medicine, but they still kept breaking out.
•‘I then saw an advertisement recommend-
ing Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment for
ailments of the skin, so thought I would give
it a trial. I used to have a warm bath using
the Cuticura Soap, after which I applied the
Cuticura Ointment to the sores and was at
once greatly relieved of the great pain I had
been suffering. I used to bathe them twice
a day and within a fortnight the sores had
disappeared altogether and my skin became
quite clear and smooth, and am now glad
to say the cure is a permanent one, as the
trouble has not recurred.” (Sighed) W. A.
Wilson, 80 Burren St Erskineville, Sydney,
N. S. W., May 13, 191.1.
If you, or someone dear to you, have
suffered the itching, burning, sleep-destroying
torments of eczema or other cruei skin erup-
tion, with its embarrassing, unsightly dis-
figurement; if you have tried all manner of
treatment, no matter how harsh, to no avail,
and have all but given up hope of cure, you
should know that the first warm bath with
Cuticura Soap and gentle application of Cuti-
cura Ointment bring instant relief, permit
rest and sleep, and prove the first steps in a
speedy and successful treatment, in the
majority of cases. Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment are sold throughout the world, but a
liberal sample of Cuticura Ointment, with
32-page book, will be sent free on applica-
tion to R. Towns & Co., Dept. 10K, Sydney.
if
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“half" will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, eas3' to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr- B- Allen’s (u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of- 40 years’
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
The Wretchedness
of Constipation
Can quickly be overcome by
CAKTEB’S LITTLE LIYEB PILLS.
Purely vegetable act surely and
gently on the liver. Cure Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, and Indigestion,
They do their duty.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
HOW TO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS
df
gdf
gdf
gd
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. X
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world —I am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
gd
F
R
E
E
NO MONEY WANTED.
Pend us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 0 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for ns at tid.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. i'.v continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take ail the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer, he the first in your district, our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. m BOflD ST., SYDNEY.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The "Swan”
Eountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more ont of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy snch and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
-
N
“Swan safety
Can’t L'ak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) : J. A. Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6.
g
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu all y
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
•he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
51ft
BIO2V
Benger’s is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
df
for Children, Invalids and the Aged, enjoys
the universal recommendation of Medical men
in all cases of severe or temporary illness, and
during convalescence.
f>BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester,
Food] England '
-* Ben get’s Food is sold in tins bv Druggists, etc., everywhere.
TURNED AWAY.
[For The Bulletin.]
Hundreds turned away nightly.
— ■b'auiiliar theatrical advt.
Though print may lie, this is a fact,
And hundreds oft are turned away.
It’s either by the blokes who act,
Or by the cove that wrote the play.
victoria. BILLY T.
“Harrison O.”: How the Bedroom Scene does
boom, to be sure! We have had it lately in comedy
(“Arms and the Man”), drama (“The Woman in
the Case”), Shakspearian drama (“Othello”), musi-
cal comedy (“The Chocolate Soldier”), bellow-
drammer (“The Bad Girl of the Bedroom,” “Queen
of the Injuns,” “The Nightie Side of London,” and
37,482 others), and farce (“Inconstant George”). I
make bold to say that we moderns are in a position
to see more stage underclothes in a week than our
theatre-going ancestors did in five years.
Wilson Barrett gets a good notice in the new vol.
of the “Dictionary of National Biography.” He was
the son of a farmer, but fled from the countenance
of the cow and became a compositor in London.
Then he threw up the “case,” and took to the stage
at 18. Served a long apprenticeship in the English
Theatre in Oxford-street, played Hamlet on new
lines, and scored his first success with “The Lights
of London,” by G. R. Sims. But his Princess
season was a financial failure, and he went to
America “heavily in debt.” There he wrote and
produced “The Sign of the Cross,” which caught on
immediately, and rebuilt his fortunes. His plays
“have no pretence to literary merit, aiming solely
at stage effect and bold picturesque characterisa-
tion.” “The Die. of Nat. Bio.” also alleges that he
had “features cast in a classic mould, and a manly
and graceful presence.” It may be so, but Aus-
tralia remembers’him best as a little elderly man,
with a long nose, an amazingly short garment
of the chemise variety, and a pair of high heels that
almost looked like stilts. As he persisted in show-
ing all the legs he possessed, he looked, by reason 9f
the high heels, a grotesque specimen. The apparent
shortness of his body suggested that he had been cut
in two, a thick slice taken out, and the meagre
balance glued together again. He might be de-
scribed as a pound of meat on top of two clothes-
props.
Melbourne Royal is now leased to J. C. William-
son Ltd. until June 1, 1928, and even the pub on
the premises will pass into the clutch of the Combine
anon. According to the conditions of the lease-ex-
tension, the Theatre Royal Proprietary is spending
£2000 in decorating and re-furnishing the interior
of the house, the management contracting to keep it
smart thereafter. In due course, the Combine will
re-model the front premises, and meanwhile, presu-
mably, it will provide a tea and coffee department
anyhow. Public opinion has been yelling these
months past for an infusion of “tone” into the sur-
roundings at the Royal, which seemed never to quite
get quit of its old air of raffishness.
“Harrison O.”: A striking example of the efficacy
of hymn singing is provided in “The Girl Who Knew
a Bit,” at Melb. King’s. The villain, wishing to dis-
pose of the heroine, takes her to a dungeon where a
pore mad woman has been immured for years. The
heroine is bound to a post, and the malefactor
thrashes the unhinged lady into a state of fury.
Then he gives her a knife, and leaves her to murder
the heroine. The loony one flourishes her weapon
and advances towards the helpless damsel, who, with
great presence of mind and voice, pipes a few bars
of “Nearer My God to Thee.” The effect is magical.
The demented person drops her knife, her blood-
stained delusions vanish like the baseless fabric of
a dream, the gloom is illumined by the considerate
limelight man, and the she-lunatic gains her sanity
and recognises the sacred vocalist as her long-lost
daughter. Thus does the melodramatist hold the
frying-pan up to poor demented Nature. This same
wild jest was worked off years ago in another drama
(I have forgotten the name). The scene was laid in
England in the days of Mary I. A converted bishop
was burned. He was a widower with one son —-it
being the habit of R.C. bishops to marry. Later the
son’s best girl was crucified (with ropes, not nails)
in a subterranean asylum, and being threatened in
the night by an old, grey-haired and heavily-armed
lunatickess —let loose for the purposes—she also
lifted up her voice, and sang a hymn that was com-
posed about 150 years later. All ended happily (I
forget how).
“Due”: A Bulletin scribe (4/7/’12) mentions cold
shows, and before my fingers freeze I’d like to back him
up. Here, in M.L., with the coolest known winter driv-
ing crowds off the streets into various show houses,
flicker managers are serving up such freezers as
“Amundsen in the Ice,” “Snowy Egmont,” “Nature
in Winter Clothes,” “The Yermac Ice-Breaker,” etc.
And nightly the shivering of the lookers-on rocks the
building to its foundations, until the jiggers on the
screen seem steady by contrast. Snow pictures in
winter are as bad as the thought of the verandahs of
Sheol in January.
Richard Northcott, long-time musical critic of the
London Daily Chronicle, has devoted many months
to research among the vast collection of old, dusty
and musty newspapers in the British Museum, in
order to obtain material for a book on Royal visits
to the London theatres. It seems a waste of valuable
time and a case of much ado about nothing. Never-
theless, Northcott has unearthed some interesting
things. He gives descriptions and illustrations of 46
Royal command performances. The earliest is a visit
paid by Queen Elizabeth in 1601 to the Blackfriars
Theatre, a playhouse patched up by Shalcspeare and
his partners out of the ruins of a monastery of the
Dominicans or “Black Friars,” as they were popu-
larly called in pre-Reformation times. The Times
office and the stores of Spiers and Pond now occupy
the site, but a little lane between the two, called
Playhouse Yard, still remains as a reminder of the
olden days. Kings and Royalties had “favorites”
among the actresses of the bygone centuries, and
even in this 20th century the custom is by no means
wholly extinct. So it sometimes happened that there
were Royal visits to different theatres on the same
night. For instance, on April 2, 1730, George II.
attended a benefit performance in honor of his fav-
orite, Mary Porter, at Drury Lane, while the same
evening the Prince of Wales was barracking for his
favorite, Jane Bullock, at another playhouse close
by. In some 300 years of London Royal gala per-
formances, only four operas in English have been
given. Three of them were by Balfe—“The Maid of
Artois,” “Siege of Rochelle,” and the “Rose of
Castile”—and were “commanded” by the late Queen
Victoria, with whom Balfe was a special favorite.
A feature of these Royal performances was the at-
tempted “improvement” from time to time of the
National Anthem. Here is part of a new verse
written by PlanchS for a performance at the outset
of the reign of Queen Victoria:—
“Long may her gentle wing
Blessings to England bring;
Shout ye who love the King,
‘God Save the Queen!’ ”
Royal visits to theatres nowadays are quiet and de-
corous affairs, but it was not always so. At one,
in 1825, the Drury Lane pit was rushed and
crowded to the verge of suffocation —so much so that
women had to be handed up out of it into boxes and
the circle to save their lives. When Queen Victoria
paid her first visit to Drury Lane, “a scene of greater
blackguardism, outrage and violation of common
decency was never known in a theatre.” This was
the reference to the reception accorded to the new
girlish queen whose accession to the throne was
anything but popular with the London mob. There
was another riotous demonstration against Queen
Vic. at Drury Lane in 1848, the “year of revolution.”
A farcical circus-cum-newspaper advt. was perpe-
trated in London the other week. A baby elephant
—the Daily Mirror two-year-old Jumbo Junior —was
invited to a birthday breakfast at the Waldorf Hotel
by Darby and Joan, the “Bostock Jungle Elephants.”
Little Jumbo was driven to the hotel in a van,
whilst Darby and Joan walked there, the male beast
in baggy pants and a straw decker, and the female
in a preposterous skirt and a tremendous hat. Flash-
light photos of the animals and the human gathering
were taken at the hotel.


NEW EDISON
RECORDS are
NOW ON SALE.
To-day the New Edison Records for Sep-
tember will be on sale at all dealers through-
out Australasia. The collection is a very
fine one, the Amberol Concert Records being
particularly noteworthy.
The record of “Selections from the Quaker
Girl” is one which will be justly popular,
while Dr. Franklin Lawson’s contribution,
“Believe Me If All Those Endearing Young
Charms,” will be desired by all who appre-
ciate high-class vocalism. The humorists in-
clude Ada Jones, Billy Murray, Florrie Forde,
Harry Lauder and Billy Williams —a galaxy
of talent second to none.
You should certainly make a point of
hearing these New Records. Call on the
nearest Edison dealer as soon as possible,
and have them played over for you. If you
are not aware of the location of a dealer,
write us direct, and we will tell you, and
also send latest lists of Records and Phono-
graphs.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale Only),
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE
PROOF of my CIGARS
IS IN THE SMOKING
✓2
BUYERS all over Australia and New Zealand, by their
repeat orders, testify to the good smoking qualities,
flavor, and aroma of my Cigars.
To convince yourself, send me an order for 100 of any
of the following: —
IMPERIALS 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6
DIADEMAS 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6 „
INFANTAS 17/6
LEVUCAS . 15/6 „
Smoke 5 or 6 of them, and, if you are not satisfied,
return the remainder to me, and
I WILL REFUND IN FULL THE AMOUNT PAID.
Remit amount with order, and I will deliver Cigars,
all charges paid, to any part of Australia. When order-
ing, state whether you like a mild, medium, or full
flavor. Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Tailor-Made Costumes
New Patterns Just
Opened for
SPRING
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive? and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
gd
fg
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours, j
Each Capsule bears the name 3®?'
dfg
ASTHMACURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN RIBAHFTTFS
Asthma, NcrvonsConghß,
riSiltw anti Oppression immediately
5£SS* b y “KIMAULT & Co-8 INDIAN CIGAB-
I liLb. Sold hv nit Chemists.
The
I
=3 Sj» *
X
U
m
m
“The Cinch”
will amuse, interest & instruct
every member of your family !
The “ Cinch ” is the summit of mechanical art
in the reproduction of the human voice.
Of unlimited versatility it reproduces all musical
sound —full and clear —without the slightest
flaw, and with a degree of faithfulness that
mystifies while it charms the sensitive ear.
There are no dull evenings when you have a
“Cinch” in the home.
It is a beautifully finished instrument is strongly
constructed —takes up but little room —and is
ready at a moment's notice to play and sing for
you the popular old time songs and choruses, as
well as Grand and Comic Opera and the musical
hits of the moment.
It will play any Disc Record.
Price £3|loj-
Further Particulars and Catalogue obtainable trom any
accredited Talking Machine Dealer, or from
THE INTERNATIONAL ZONOPHONE CO. LTD.,
HOFFNUNG’S CHAfIBERS PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
df
OSTRICH PLUriES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10 6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Cornsr of Bourko and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
gs
Ever Tried to GHOW A MOUSTACHE?
Of course you have! You know how much it would benefit you com-
mercially and socially—give you per sonality—inspire admiration 1 Let
CAPILLARINE
help 3'ou ! It is the perfect moustache grower, with a 25 years’ unap-
proachable record. Success is assured to you!
Simple directions; easy to folio w, and quick results.
PRICE 10/6 PER A R.
Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER —worn at night—makes
the moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
Craig &. AitKen,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
dfg
Write To-day for
Full Particulars
of “The Silent
Empire Biograph”
EVERY Bio-man who wants
to run a successful picture
show should investigate the
merits of this world-famous machine.
Although of moderate price it is extremely
durable, being made from the best-quality
materials. It is perfectly silent in opera-
tion —and is fitted with the latest Maltese
Cross attachment, which renders the pic-
tures absolutely flickerless. It is also fire-
rroof —simple and easy to manipulate—and
Splendid Value. Puller information free.
J e r d a n’s
Sole Agents for Australasia,
“ Leading Cinematograph Specialists,”
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Facing Royal Hotel).
ALEXANDER GUNN & SONS,
236 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. >
A FASCINATING AUTHOR
The Complete
Works of Guy
De Maupassant
Issued to Subscribers only
... by ...
The Standard Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Publishers of the Complete Works of
Shakespeare, Balzac, Dickens, Scott,
Thackeray, etc.
IT is a literary event of more than ordinary im-
portance that The Standard Publishing Co. are
able to announce the issue to subscribers of a
complete and admirable translation of the entire
Works of Guy De Maupassant.
Henri Rene Guy De Maupassant is by well-nigh
universal consent the greatest short story writer in
all literature. It was when Baudelaire translated
the short stories of Edgar Allan Poe that the French
attempted to achieve mastery in one of the most
difficult forms of art. .
Maupassant and Gautier alone improved upon their
teacher. But Gautier’s chief fame rests upon his
poems and his romances. Maupassant produced a
series of little masterpieces, which are unsurpassed
for ingenuity of conception, for perfection of detail,
and for an almost miraculous adroitness in the pre-
sentation of character and incident within the tiniest
limits. The unwinding of one of his stories is one
of the fascinations of literature. •
His stories deal with innumerable details ot the
human comedy as it presented itself to Maupassant s
ever-observant eye. lie has given us strange tales of
travel and adventure of weird mystery and awesome
dread, and of the pure comedy that is never far
absent from human circles.
Only a few of these masterpieces have found their
way into English print. Strangely enough, this is
the first collected edition which has ever appeared in
England. It has also been left for the Publishers to
make this edition more complete than the authorised
French edition.
This Standard Edition, in fact, contains many
stories and sketches which have actually never been
republ shed in France, and are now for the first time
rescued from the oblivion of the magazines in which
they originally appeared.
THE GENERAL FORMAT. —The Standard Edition
is an endeavor to produce a set of the Complete
Works of De Maupassant, which will conform to the
best dictates of style and art.
THE ILLUSTRATIONS. —There are thirty through-
out the set, from original drawings by noted French
and American artists. A number were executed by
De Maupassant’s friends —who declined compensation
—contending that it was an honor for them to show
their admiration in this way for his works.
THE PAPER. —The paper used in this edition was
specially made, and is, therefore, of one color and
quality throughout. It is a pure antique, with
deckled edges.
THE PRINTING. —The printing was done from
original type and not from plates. This ensures a
special clearness. A new font of French Elzevir
type, bold and elegant in design and easy to read,
was specially cast for and used in this edition.
There are good margins to every page.
THE BINDING. —it has been our aim to secure
simplicity and quiet elegance in the bindings. The
books are handsomely bound in Blue Vellum Cloth,
with distinctive brown and gold title labels.
ANALYSIS OF THE SEVENTEEN
VOLUMES.
IN THE FIRST FIVE VOLUMES the author pic-
tures, with marvellous skill, the virile novelty of
country scenes, and the comedy and tragedy under-
lying the whirl of Parisian life in fashionable draw-
ing-rooms, in stud'.os of art, in greenrooms of opera
and theatre, and in the Quartier Latin of students
find gri sGttcs.
THE SECOND SECTION OF FIVE VOLUMES
contains the Romances which caused Tolstoi to hail
De Maupassant as the supreme realist and romance
writer of his century. Here are found the daring
explorations of his subtly intelligent mind into the
j emotions of the heart of womankind.
THE THIRD SECTION OF FIVE VOLUMES em-
braces the Dramas, Poems and Travels, the last-
named sparkling with gems of description—-Meisson-
nier-like pictures in words —of Spanish, Italian, Cor-
sican and Oriental life. The shorter Romances are
also included.
THE FOURTH SECTION contains stories belong-
ing to no one particular phase of life, unless it may
be human passion. Love and laughter, tragedy and
tears run side by side in these two volumes, the last
of the series.
AN APPRECIATION.
Elbert Hubbard writes :
“This man never wrote to please the rabble. He
wrote because he had a message for the world, and
because Divine Energy forced it through his pen.
De Maupassant wrote with the conviction that in
life there could be no phase so noble or so mean, so
honorable or so contemptible, so lofty or so low, as
to be unworthy of chronicling ; no groove of human
virtue or fault, success or failure, wisdom or folly,
that did not- possess its own peculiar psychological
aspect, and, therefore, demanded analysis. If occas-
ionally some intellectual pigmy, after reading,
screams in falsetto, please remember. snontaneitv
.and mediocrity are never kin. A WARNING : Those
of you who find enjoyment in blue-milk brain-wander-
ings should never seek De Maupassant. You will
be disappointed. You will not be able to digest nor
assimilate the strong elixir of his mind, so it will
curdle in your gullet—then it’s you for mental con-
stipation.”
A FREE BOOKLET.
We have prepared an illustrated prospectus of our
Standard Edition of De Maupassant. This will be
sent Post Free to all responsible inquirers. The
booklet describes the edition in full detail, and shows
how the matter is arranged in the Seventeen Volumes.
This booklet will be sent to all book-lovers and liter-
ary students who use the form underneath.
To The Standard Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne; or
228 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me free of charge, and without any
obligation on my part, your illustrated booklet of
The Standard Edition of Guy De Maupassant's Works
in Seventeen Volumes, together with your plan of
easy instalments.
NAME
(Please use this form or a postcard, mentioning
The Bulletin.)
ADDRESS


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
A S,S. WAKOOL, via SUEZ CANAL.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION. AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. . . ■ £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17a.
GILCHRIST, WATT Sc SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mklrourne Agents: .10IIN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS '& CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAMA ..Triple-.Screw..
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw ..
OSTERLEY ~ „
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH ..
OPHIR .. „ „ ...
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY',
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
13,000 Regd. Tons.
12,130 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 „
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
The
gank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of [jem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock . . . . . . £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up ••
Uncalled Capital . . . .
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
500,000
500,000
1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED.. .. .. .. £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
MEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yakwood, Esq.
Brandies ‘throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and ail the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock)... 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.G91.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V: RALSTON. ■
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate, of ii per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen,
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOBtMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO.. Perth and Fremantle:
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane Sc Townsville.
New Zealand Insurance Cl,a.!
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joinr. Managers,
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry “7
Weston “WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WIIARF.
3rd Class.
£l6 Os. to £2O Os.
£l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
FARES — Saloon.
London .. From £45.
Cape or Durban From £3O.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£llo (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets to Africa interchangeable
with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and O. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYA N (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
Winter Tours to
the Pacific Isles.
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in one of the
Burns, Philp Line of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from 21 to 52 days at a cost of from £5
to
'mm:
Wf*:
.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
sdf
£3,000,000
£2,035,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer
Head Office—George St., Sydney.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles iv. Maekellar, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
I The Hon. Edmund W. irosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Esq. ; Shepheard lid seel iff Laidlev, Esq.
London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Blanches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 6, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. j. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George <J. Cohen, Esq.. .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Gran.t.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: 13 Birch.in- Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manage:: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . . . . . £538,307
Reserve' Liability of Shareholders . . . . 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. — i
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. EC.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
file golonial ([)utual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS
To CAIRNS (Queensland) and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
Special attention is drawn to the opportunity of
enjoying a Holiday during the Winter Season at
places where the climate is mild and the scenery
beautiful. The services are performed by the follow-
ing steamships, fitted with all facilities for the coin-
fort of Tourists.
TO CAIRNS EVERY TUESDAY—
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA,” 6500 Tons
T.S.S. “ WYANDRA,” 4500 Tons
and other well-known steamers, the round trip from
Sydney occupying 20 days.
TO LAUTOKA, SUVA AND LEVUKA EVERY
FOUR WEEKS—
T.S.S. “LEVUKA,” 6500 Tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
The round trip occupying three weeks.
For sailing dates, etc., see Daily Papers.
Further particulars on application to —
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY >
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports, j
S.S. Warilda (8000 tons),
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, September
28, carrying Ist, 2nd
and 3rd Class Passen-
gers.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores North to Claims.
, S.S. Grantala (Wireless
' Telegraphy), Aug. 24.
I S.S. Innamincka, Aug. 31.
S.S. Marloo. Sept. 7.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part ot’
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAI LINOS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe-—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNiON STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.S. F.S.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SOMERSET.
11,900 Tons. J. B. HUNTER, Commander.
Will be despatched from :
BRISBANE about Aug-. 20
SYDNEY „ Sept. 4
MELBOURNE about Sept. 9
ADELAIDE „ Sept. 13
Tht Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class pasengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon.
.. £4O.
Fares ..
Third-class.
£l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by the
*T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE, leaving Sydney about Sep-
tember 17.
T.S.S. DORSET, leaving Sydney about October 15.
*Fitted with Wireless.
For further information see Illustrated Books,
Pamphlets, etc., apply tO‘ —
BIRT & 00., LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN a & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, .SMITH & 00., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
gsd
South Sea
. .. and . . .
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
♦T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, SEPT. 10.
♦T.S.S. ATI'A, 3500 tons, OCTOBER 8.
♦Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia). I'HIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), *R.M.S. MOANA, September 7. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.
t.s.s. TAHITI, arriving Sydney, October 1.
There is also a service everv 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. *Talune, September 24.
(Maheno, from Sydney, September 18, connects.)
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation fo the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
FIItE. ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
PENSATION. PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. Tlie National Monthly. Price, Oil.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Garden of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO
UNITED STATES INLAND POINTS, also GREAT
BRITAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-TIIE-WOBLD
TOURS IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUEZ AND CAPE
LINES.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
S.S. MOANA, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, October 5.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, November 2.
Sailing's every 28 days.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at:
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
G
EORGE HOTEL
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
»
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
fg
Ufie HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences.
Oval Hilliard Table.
Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS received from One Shilling' upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three Per Cent, per annum allowed on all Deposits up to £3OO.
Ageiries now open at local Post Offices
throughout practically the whole of Victoria.
Alelbourne, 15th July, 1912.
MELBOURNE AGENCY : 317 COLLINS STREET.
DENISON MILLER , Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
Fur Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
A NEW MODEL.
Smith’s Perfect Speedometer
We have just landed a Speedometer eminently suited to Single-Seated Cars
and Runabouts, registered SPEED TO 50 MILES AN HOUR, and
TOTAL MILEAGE to 9999 MILES.
Motorists and Prospective Motorists
are invited to inspect it.
Price £4 Complete.
Sole Agents■
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
23°& eS 2s"lh'unter "street
CARRY IT AT ANY ANGLE
IT WON T LEAK.
The Onoto is the fountain pen that
keeps itself —and other things—spotless.
Turn it any way and it won’t leak.
Once in your pocket it becomes a sealed
tube. The Onoto writes from the first
stroke to last with delightful smoothness
and precision, never making a blot. And
when empty, there is no messy business
with fragile fillers. The Onoto fills itself
in a flash from any ink supply. To insure
against ink stains on clothes, desk, or
carpet, get an
J
%
ONQTO
Self-Filling Safety Fountain Pen
Price, 12/- and upwards, at all Stationers, Jewellers and Stores.
Booklet free on application to Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 176
Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian Representatives,
Norman Baker & Ibonghurst, 50. York Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT. —For those who require a larger pen, with a
very flexible nib, a special model—the New “G” —has been put on
the market. Try this new “G” at your stationer’s.
The “PLUM” Razor, 10/6, Will Please You Better
■v
<<y.
We Keep “ PLUM ” Razors in Perfect Order
for Two Years FREE OF CHARGE.
CRAIG (SL AITKEN,
Because it is a distinctly better razor in every way.
We are high-class hairdressers, and have tested the
“Plum” thoroughly, and unhesitatingly commend it
to your usg.
It has a remarkably tempered blade of superb ring-
ing quality, which carries a peculiarly fine edge for
a long period. It assures a quick, easy, close shavd,
with none of the soreness and redness caused by
inferior razors. You should certainly have a PLUM.
PRICE 10/6
Post Free.
Send for
Illustrated Free
Price List.
We Grind and Set
Razors. 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop. 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not. .he without it.
All the Above Post Free.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
- ESTABLISHED 30 . YEARS.
WW¥.
Jewellery
Handsome Bangle, set with fine White Diamonds
Special Value, &no.
B’ine Pearl, Diamond and Sapphire Set
Brooch,
J 7400 iss
Finest Quality Diamond and Plati-
num Set Necklet,
Fine quality Snake Design Brooch, set with
Diamonds, Rubies and Whole Pearl,
£,35.
nS!SK
J. 8839
£l2-10-0
Fine Diamond and
Pearl 18et. Gold
Cluster Ring.
£l2/10/-
J 2444 Fine Diamond and Plati-
num Set Brooch,
£.20
Pair Finest
Quality Dia-
mond Ear-
rings, set i n
Platinum and
Gold,
£2O
Diamond and Emerald
Set 18ct. Gold King,
£27/10/-
d. SSSS
fwo-c
Diamond and Sapphire
Crossover King,
£-6 10-
Choice Diamond and Platinum Set
Brooch - £2210-
G 738 5
£5210-0
Fine Pearl and
Diamond, Set
JBet. Gold
Crossover King,
&5 2/10/-
WRITE FOR OUR FINE
ART ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS
- OTHER AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES ~
MELBOURNE,BRISBANE 2c PERTH.


Get Rid of
Bronchitis
BY USING
ANGIER
EMULSIO
Of Chemists, 1/3. 2/9 and 4/6.
The combined healing and strengthening properties of this
remedy make it unequalled in bronchitis and all catarrhal
affections of throat and lungs. For upwards of twenty years
Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by the medical
profession and used in the hospitals. It is the standard
approved remedy for colds, coughs, bronchitis, and all throat
and chest affections.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
IN
BANANA LAND
“Kobbi”: The Queensland University
yearns for walking advts, and to that end
it is dispensing cheap degrees broadcast.
As one result, a flabbergasted populace
learned the other day that the “Hon. Dr.
Kidston” would preside at the land court,
etc. Bill couldn’t be safely trusted with the
job of doctoring a sick hen, and he knows it,
and knows everyone else knows it. He has
about as much acquaintance with the law
as the average ,J.P. And he was never a
whale for theology, so his position as a doc-
tor of divinity would be anomalous. What
a jest the whole business is!
The Queensland Government gives an
annual picnic to the local authorities, and
these jubilant Bumbles usually show their
gratitude by talking furious party polities
and turning their Lucinda into a Bedlam.
At the latest outing of this kind, Treasurer
Barnes alluded to Wullie Kidston as a >
“nation-builder,” whereupon somebody who
remembered how Barnes talked when Kid-
ston was a Laborite, retorted: “You said he
was drummed out of Falkirk.” xlfter a spasm
of uproar, Attorney-General O’Sullrvan
characterised the proceedings as a “circus,”
and was promptly told, “You’re the clown.”
Amid such amenities, the day passed gaily
and the jovial Councillors adjourned to sleep
it off and tell each other what a devil of a
good time they’d had.
Seventy years ago, Southerners stood ap-
palled at the idea of anybody braving the
sub-tropical horrors of the region of Moreton
Bay, and told gruesome stories of the fatality
of its climate, its deadly sickness, etc. In
spite of all this, one Hugh Campbell settled
down in 1842 in the township of Ipswich—
then Limestone—and is flourishing there
even now at the ripe age of 82, like a green
bay tree. None the less, it is highly probable
that if Hugh puts in another 10 or 20 years
there the aforesaid climate will get him down
and make an end of him. Queensland is
full of tough old warriors ranging from 70
to 80 years, who are all standing testimonials
to the unfitness of white men to occupy the
tropics after the age of four-score or there-
abouts.
Our Washer-lady on Defence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Imprisonment for non-attendance at drill will not
be enforced, and fines will be reduced. —Press item.
I sez to Missis Smith: “Did you ’ear the news that’s
goin’?
You know as ’ow I ’ad my bloomin’ fill
Of Labor folk in offis and the way that they was
crowin’
And drivin’ little Johnny to the drill;
1 told the area-ossifer the boy would catch ’is death,
You’d almost think ’e’d perish with the wheezes;
But now the trouble’s past—’e can stay at ’ome at
last;
Our kid can go a-drillin’ when ’e pleases.
"My ’usband ’e’s blasphemin’ .and performin’ like a
Tartar —-
’E sez a youngster orter use a gun ;
I told ’im they’d be turnin’ of our Johnny to a
martyr,
And findin’ ’im a coffin when they’d done;
And now the darlin’ (bless ’im), ’e ’as given them the
slip.
No longer in ’is uniform ’e sneezes,
Fer now the boy is free —as a youngster orter be ;
Our kid can dodge the drillin’ when ’e pleases.
“I alwuz ’ated figlitin’, and I spoke my mind agin it
(I wouldn’t be surprised if Fisher ’eard),
And, as to doin’ goose-step in the night, there’s
nothin’ in it,
The thing is perfeck fool’ry and absurd ;
If them as made the law was forced to double up and
down,
They’d fling their soldier nonsense to the breezes,
But now the trouble’s o’er, ’e will march o’ night no
more,
My kid will dodge the drillin’ when ’e pleases.
“To think as ’ow a kiddy as is coddled by ’is mother,
Should ’ave to keep by starlight outer bed,
A shoulderin’ and presentin’ of some bloomin’ gun or
other,
And pantin’ till ’is little ’eart is lead ;
But Guvenments now is soft in the brainy upper loft,
And so you see, in future when it freezes,
My Johnny on my,lap, ’e shall ’ave a bowl o’ pap—
My kid will dodge the drillin’ when ’e pleases.”
QUEENSLAND.
SARAH PEACE.
Women Who Shave.
DESPERATE MEASURES NECESSITATED
BY SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
A CLEVER WOMAN COMES TO THE RESCUE,
'to assert that many ladies in this country are
compelled to resort to the razor in order to rid
themselves of superfluous hair on face and arms will
no doubt cause much surprise. It is, nevertheless,
true; and women who, from time to time, shave off
one or two hairs really act as foolishly as those who
apply a depilatory to the whole chin, lips or arms,
to burn off the humiliating growth.
Of course, in either case the hair is only got rid
of until it can grow anew ; and the stiff, bristling- re-
appearance of it causes tears of hysterical humilia-
tion. Then razor or depilatory is applied afresh ; for
what else can the poor sufferer do? There are
women whose mental and physical breakdown' is
attributable to the misery of superfluous hair, which
they have no means of conquering.
A clever beauty specialist in Edinburgh, Mine.
Tensfeldt, has already saved some hundreds of
women from almost unspeakable distress by her in-
vention of a portable, self-acting electrolyser, by
which any woman can secretly rid herself forever of
every superfluous hair. There is no renewal of the
growth. Once electrolysed the root is dead. The
process (which is painless and absolutely infallible)
can be applied to any lady in the privacy of her own
room. Once used, the misery of superfluous hair is
gone for ever. The expense has been purposely fixed
low. Mme. Tensfeldt, 120 n, Princes Street, Edin-
burgh, Scotland, will send the whole apparatus in a
plain package for only £5 ss. When its good work
has been done, she will take the apparatus back and
allow £1 ss. for it second-hand if returned within
six months. Many ladies in this country will no
doubt be glad of the offer, and Mme. Tensfeldt guar-
anties the success of her electrolyser.*
’Way back in IS9S, a casual stranger in
skirts, dropped in to get some business done
at Brisbane’s G.P.O. Then the lady departed
and forgot £5O, which'sum she left on the
counter. Nothing happened till the other
day, when a claim drifted in from a lady at
Newark-on-the-Trent, in John Bull’s country.
“Bishop’.’ Barnes, Queensland’s Treasurer,
substantiated the claim, and the money, by
this time, is possibly seasick on the other
side of the Leeuwin. There are very few
countries with a record for honesty like this.
The Denham crowd is introducing a Juries
Bill —a timely reform, inasmuch as the pre-
sent Jury Act was obsolete 20 years ago.
The Bill, if passed, will make a majority
verdict possible as in Scotland. There is a
provision, however, that the jury mpst de-
liberate four hours before all hope of a unani-
mous finding is abandoned. The majority
idea doesn’t apply to capital cases. A man
must either be hanged unanimously or not
at all.
“P.F.”: The Queensland Ministry brags
continually that the country is “paying its
way.” The country does no such thing.
Since Separation, Bananaland has piled up
deficits to the tune of nearly 4J millions
and surpluses to the extent of slightly over
2-J millions. From 1900-1901 to 1911-12
(inclusive) the deficits amount to £I,ML'.B9I,
while surpluses total about £699,000. Where
in the name of goodness does the “paying
its way” come in? When the Q. Treasurer
fakes away his legitimate overplus at the
year’s end lie is deliberately and of malice
aforethought preventing Bananaland from
paying 20s. in the £.
Almost every session the Queensland
Assembly has to deal with some matter of
industrial legislation that touches on the
public holiday business. A Bill is just now
being introduced dealing with the rights of
St. Andrew, St. George and St. Patrick to
have each a distinct loafing day. St. David,
however, is not recognised, and the Welsh
miners of South Queensland want to know
why. If the Germans, Scandinavians, Chan-
nel Islanders and Manxmen only hustle a
bit, they may also get a national holiday
squeezed in. and if the Queensland Cale-
donians would only organise they could, pro-
bably, coerce the Assembly into declaring
the kilt a national costume —to the great
joy of M.L.A. Donald Macintosh, who used
to plough in kilts, and gave young Arthur
Morgan the fright of his life by suddenly
looming on his vision clad in the bagpipes
of ancient Assyria. And where, all this
time, is the xlustralian saint —St. Wallaby,
our own special guardian angel and local in-
stitution?
SELF-SUFFICIENT.
TALKATIVE B ARBER: “Shave yerselƒ, sir”
THE VICTIM: “Yes! Talk to myself, too."
“Butcher-bird”: Re “Larrikin” and his
knowledge of women workers. No necessity
to go back 40 years; come straight up here
to within 30 miles of Brisbane, and the
woman worker can be seen at her best —or
worst. Women and girls do ploughing, har-
rowing, harvesting and farm work generally.
The majority of these Amazonian grafters
are of German extraction, but there are a
few of English descent who run them pretty
closely. We have also two Irish ladies who
are champions with the axe, and fell all the
timber for the brothers to haul to the mill
and railway line. They are to give an ex-
hibition of wood chopping in the ring during
Brisbane’s gala week. Close-by neighbors
of my own are two English women
who run a small dairy. They do
all the branding, and absolutely every-
thing else connected with the cattle, includ-
ing veterinary services to the young male
calves, with their own fair hands. Bedrock
was reached last weejk when I found a young
Englishwoman taking the hide off a beast
that had died of red-water a week or so
before. I am a single man, and weary of the
estate, but, somehow, I do not fancy matri-
mony with that young woman.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 17, 1912.
My Dear ThArgomindaii,—
The one tremendous and soul-dazzling
event of the week was, of course, the Gov-
ernor’s Ball. The stirring thing rippled and
scintillated and gyrated on Wednesday night,
and tilled the measure of our gladness to the
brim. The G.-G. and Lady Denman, with
Sir Walter and Lady Barttelot, Lord Richard
Nevill, Major Quilter and some more aides
and things, smiled upon the proceedings.
The Bryces were also on tap, and Admiral
and Lady King Hall sat among the mighty.
A score or so of salt persons, from the Cam-
brian, Drake and Psyche, tripped vigorously
through the mazy dance, and the scarlet
coats of military charmers shone like danger
signals amid the, feminine fripperies that
fluttered around them. The Foxton aide did
his splendid best to hook partners for the
female overplus, and his success at a’game
played against all the resources of mathe-
matics, caused a pleasant flutter in many a
young and tender bosom.
Three new buds broke into social blossom
on the occasion—Misses Louie Earwaker,
Josephine Lewis, and one of Alderman
Hetherington’s daughters.
I heard, and tried hard to believe, that an
unrehearsed effect was provided by some per-
son of genius. This kind soul arrived
loaded to the Plimsoll mark with a deck
cargo (please note that it was only a deck
cargo) of privately-purchased champagne, to
add additional sparkle to the proceedings. I
did not hear of anyone who went so far as to
bring buns or sandwiches, to eke out the
solid part of the entertainment, but there
may have been a lord or something with a
spare sausage-roll tucked in his sleeve, for
all I can certainly avow.
What I do know is that the supper would
have coaxed a smirk of satisfaction to the
features of Epicurus, that the music was
good, and that the floor had the sheen and
quality of a milliner’s plate-glass window.
The Governor was in high feather, and, when
a very brief Governor is in very tall feather,
there is apt to be more feather than Gov-
ernor. Lady Macgregor’s health has greatly
improved, so everything was quite nice.
There have been one or two formal takings
of food at Eernberg, our Government humpy,
and last night, after a minor gathering
there, the Macgregor vice-regal party broke
up like a flock of lambs attacked by the
Beef Trust, and scattered to all points of
the compass. Wee, and Mr. and Mrs. Right
Hon. Bryce, with the Foxton aide and Mr.
and Mrs. Forsyth, vanished by special train
to the Blackall Range, while Admiral and
Lady King Hall, with Flag-Lieutenant Seton
in tow, scurried away to Maryborough, where
they are to camp with the Youngs, at Fairy-
mead.
On Monday the G.-G. and Lady Denman
will hoist their swags and make for Rock-
hampton, while the Barttelots will tempor-
arily share the Collins lady’s roost at Min-
dooimbah. Heaven only knows how we are
to get along without the variegated nobility
in whose reflected glory we have been per-
spiring, but perhaps the hamlet may survive.
We have a way of living things down.
The present chief understudy of George V.
has made good in these parts. His courtesy,
and, indeed, that of all his camp-followers,
has been as champagne in a hot desert to
many who remember with fierce resentment
the superior scorn of a previous G.-G. and
his haughty dame. The Macgregor people
have taught us to expect the same decency
from vice-regal greatness that we are accus-
tomed to receive in our dealings with plain
Australians, and the Federal vice-regality
has this time not disappointed us.
Eating has been conducted with due sol-
emnity at Merthyr on several occasions, and
the party there has put in some strenuous
work at the Golf Links. Early morning
rides were included in the programme, and
we noticed, with interest, that Lady Bartte-
lot appeared to have even more skill in cling-
ing to the roof of a gee-gee than her friend
the Governor-Generaless.
Their Federal Exes, have visited the hospi-
tals during their stay, and, on each occa-
sion cast some small coin about in a
manner satisfactory to the institutions. At
the Girls’ Grammar School, the G.-G. assisted
the growth of patriotic sentiment by giving
the first flap to a new flag.
Cisneros is warbling while I write. She
caused quaverings of the air also on Monday
and Thursday, and the whole village has been
putting in its spare time discussing the pro-
nunciation of her name. We loved the lady
at first sight, and Dufault scored hugely.
The P.P.L. Social Committee called us
together to dance on Thursday. The glid-
ing was good, but mighty few P.P.L.-ites
were there, and, out of the great array of
politicians who smiled on that misguided
body but a few short moons ago, only one
put in an appearance. He, brave man, came,
smiled some more, and danced like mad.
Politicians who keep elections in mind ought
to dance like mad.
The Private Assembly Ball, on Tuesday,
was a howling success. Please do not inter-
pret this to mean that the howling was done
by the 27 spinsters who upheld the wall.
Poor girls; perhaps they wept salt tears
in the company of their domestic washstand,
but in the room they maintained a smiling
and mournful calm. The decorations were
hand-made wisteria and Australian-built
asparagus fern.
On Wednesday the G.-G. opened the Show.
Bunches of noble and notorious persons were
placed on pedestals, and beneath them the'
crowd gaped in awe and wonder. The open-
ing was followed by the official mastication,
which was perpetrated in the concert hall of
the Exhibition Building. Any amount of
Governor and its wife, with still more aide
and its missus, was present; and the feature
of the luncheon was the fact that six-
speeches were reeled off in less than an hour.
AND THE AGES ROLLED BY.
OLD RESIDENT: "Been about ’ere a long
while! My word , I ’ave that! I come
’ere about the time when they repaired the
school'ouse!"
Lady Denman wore a saxe-blue shantung,
with a touch of dull green, which made it
anything but dull, and lifted it to the sub-
lime level of a “creation.” Lady Barttelot
was tailored from head to foot, and Lady
King Hall also wore some clothes. (They
were fuchsia-colored, as a matter of absolute
fact.)
Yesterday Premieress Denham, in the ad-
sence of Digby D., who is ill, held a cheery
shivoo on the Lucinda, at which the G.-G.
and his staff got amiably boxed up with
various members of Parliament.
The Hospital, which has been gathering in
shekels in good measure during the last few
months,* is again cadging. To-night several
dames are dancing themselves into a state of
charitable perspiration, at the S. Brisbane
Tech, for the sake of the sick and wounded,
and other means of pushing the bonnet for
donations are being devised.
The fever and fret of the past fortnight
leave us in a state of social collapse, with
our back hair loose over our shoulders, and
a drooped feeling about the corners ,of our
intelligence. If we recover, I’ll write and
tell you how we manage it.
Yours breathlessly,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Kobbi”: Bananaland is curtailing its
much-boomed railway policy. The stress on
the public purse is making empty corners in
the handbag. Eighteen railways at present
under construction, and totalling 115 miles,
are to be pushed on to a revenue-earning
conclusion. Which looks bad. Ten others,
with 194 miles of parallel hardware, for
which Parliamentary authority has been ob-
tained, are to sleep “till next year.” Which
looks worse. The 42-mile stretch between
Cloncurry and Mount Cuthbert is among the
restful ones, and it is broadly hinted that
any member who dares to suggest new rail-
ways will be poleaxed and offered upon the
altar of his cashless country. Which is
horrible.
About the time that the Customs officers
discovered those wretched three dozen Chi-
nese stowaways who had braved unutterable
miseries to get a cheap and unlawful passage
to Sydney, the Brisbane Courier was re-
printing from a copy of the Tenterfield
Courier, 50 years old, a description of some
300 Chinese who, to escape the N.S.W. poll-
tax, had landed in Brisbane, and were pro-
ceeding overland into the Ma State. “Among
them,” said the Tenterfield paper, “were old
men and delicate youths; some apparently
crippled and footsore, and one old man was
borne seated in an upright position between
two long pieces of bamboo. Two hundred
and eighty-one of them were brought before
the P.M., and served with recognisances
binding them to pay the tax in two months.”
This was half a century ago. and Sliem
hasn’t given up his Australian ambitions
even to this day.
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. lle sure you pet the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
Thera is one thing the introduction of the wax
polishes for leather goods has done —it has dotted
Australia over with factories for the local production
of our “shines.” When the “dry leather” came
into sudden vogue, the old blackings, which had
built up their names and protected their recipes in
the course of a long nm, disappeared, and all the
world started from scratch in the race to establish
the ideal wax polish. The pendulum has swung
wildly and amazingly at various times; but the last
word on the subject is that the black and brown
polishes of the Nugget Polish Co. of Australia have
been handed the first award of merit at the Brisbane
show this year.*
In another portion of this issue a Commonwealth
Government advt. shrieks for tenders for the con-
struction, at Port Augusta (S. Aus.), of two re-
inforced concrete reservoirs of 60,000 gals, capacity,
one for salt water and the other for fresh. Tenders
must be accompanied by designs and full working
specifications, etc., and will be received by the Secre-
tary, Department of Home Affairs, Melbourne, until
noon on Tuesday, September 17.*


m
m
9
i
JLQI o^l
Cars That Are Uniformly Reliable.
Dalgety Cars embody the features which the exigencies of use and service demand.
Speed, Quality, Silence, Appearance and consistent Sound Efficiency distinguish every model.
F.N. 10/14:16/24 Austin 10 : 15 : 18/24 3O
Daimler 15:20:25:38 Delaunay-Belleville 19:27
Halley Motor Lorries (to carry from 15cwt. to 6 tons).
We will send, post free, full information of any or every car. Any trial arranged.
Also Agents for the “AUTO VOX” MOTOR HORN,
the most efficient alarm at present fitted to cars. Price, complete, with Horn and Air-pump, £9/9/=
DALGETY ®. COMPANY LTD.
130-138 Phdllip Street, Sydney. BourKe Street, Melbourne*
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
dfg
'tk'W ”*
W,.: ‘ * '
%? jp ,*. , . %
IPP'
08
i
■ v:
I
¥«*
.
mrnm
?%*' ' r ., V*


This self-stropping Safety Razor
is an investment —it shaves clean,
lasts a lifetime, and saves con-
i
stant expense for new blades.
The
.4uiO'sirop
takes 12 seconds to strop and is as easy to clean.
There is nothing to take apart, you cannot strop
it wrongly, and it will give you the same smooth
velvet shave every morning of the year.
. Standard Set. .
In handsome velvet-lined
leather-covered case, as illus-
trated. Contains quadruple
silver-plated sell-stropping
razor, one dozen blades, and
first quality horsehide strop, complete.
Price in Australia, 22/6
Price in P'cw Zealand, 25/-
0/ all lliph-class Dealers
. throvyluvl the Work).
1 Unstinted Description Dree.
Sole Depot for Australasia :
Partridge, Abercrcmby, Ltd.,
York Chambers,
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 1003.
£
k
WaSSI
Mm§kr
' r
s&t
'
StWSBS : ‘V v' - •:•
WINCHESTER
Self-Loading Shotgun
12 GAUGE, MODEL 1911
The Winchester Self-Lon ding Shotgun has all the good points of other
recoil-operated shotguns and also many distinctive and exclusive features
which sportsmen have been quick to appreciate and endorse. Among them are
Nickel steel construction throughout; a receiver made with the Winchester
patented “ Bump of Strength ” which gives the gun surpassing strength and
safety ; divided recoil, which minimizes the “ kick ” to the last degree; and a
reloading system which requires no readjustment for different loads. The
Winchester Self-Loader will shoot any standard load from a “ Blank” to the
heaviest with certainty and safety, without tinkering the action. Also it is a two-
part take-down without any loose parts. These are only a few of the many
good points about this gun. To fully appreciate its superiority you should see it
Ask your dealer to show you one
IT WORKS WELL WITH ALE LOADS
Thoroughly Good
Fabrics Perfectly
Tailored to Your
Measure
at
63/-
the Suit
to Order.
fp=7^
II
YOU may pick your fabric from
i| a splendid assortment which
includes Fox’s All Wool
Serges, the newest in Fancy
Worsted Heather Mixtures,
English, Scotch and Blarney Tweeds.
No man could ask for better or
smarter cloths than these.
You may be sure of perfection in every detail of
the suit’s making.
A master cutter will cut each garment, shaping
tt exactly to your requirements.
Skilled workpeople will sew each stitch.
Fit will be accurately precise, Finish perfect.
As proof of the sincerity of these statements you have this guarantee.
GUARANTEE.
Every Garment we make
to order must please, fit
and satisfy its wearer in all respects, or we under-
take to immediately refund every penny of the
purchase money, London Stores Ltd.
h -4
Opposite tHe G.P.0., MELBOURNE..
IS
""
2l' ,, h»«’P
!!*»»■■»
% 1?,.
547
Our illustration shows two London-dress:d Australians in Paris.
Write for Patterns, Self=Measurement Forms and the London
Catalogue. —These are post free on request.


WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
AEROGEN CaS GENERATOR.
WARNING.
It has become necessary
for us to Warn Buyers
that all Air Gas
Machines are not
Aerogen Machines.
Ideally Suited for Country’ Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard -Saloons.
TWQ OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
28 Hunter Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs,— NMeir.ber; 28, 1911
1 am writing’ to let you know how pleased I am with the Aerogen Gais (Machine which
you installed at my home, “Clydesdale,” about three months ago. Everything, ''has been
most satisfactory, the machine proving very simple to work, and also economical.
The light is excellent, both for ordinary use in the house, and for the billiard table. 1
will be only too glad to personally recommend it to anyone.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) GEORGE G. KISS.
“Borriyalloak,” Skipton,
Dear Sirs, — July 26, 1910.
I am pleased to inform you that the Aerogen Gas Machine I have had in use here for, as
you know, about nine months —through a whole summer and the worst part of the winter —is
most efficient, and I find trie machine very simple to work. The light is perfect, pure
white and steady. The mantles give no more trouble than ordinary gas mantles, and are
simple to replace.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) ERNEST G. AUSTIN.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used -for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings. Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH: ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON : W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA: A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA : Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
'Ringing for Morel^
iLzfJ
«
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess..
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years 7 success . A
The nany Points of SUPERIORITY
Eckersley’s “REGAL” Aerated
df
gdf
Water Machine
over ALL OTHERS create a demand
for it by all sensible
HOTELKEEPERS.
Catalogues from
EGKERSLEY & SONS
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE,
The Only Manufacturers of GOOD
Soda Water Machines and Fountains.
r*REME LA FRANCE
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
gd
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving-Tone and
• Brilliance to the Coin-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
, to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
' Posted 3/- Obtain,
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
v dresser and Hairworker;
23 The Block Arcade,
'COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale:
DUERDIN AND SAINSISURY. Melbourne.
fg
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYROID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,’ com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne ajid Sydney.
d
WOLF
■
- ■
■llliiifiiil
EM
Magdebunj'Bucteu
mm
G si
350
i - * : ‘ il t r
Attar :..! '
CLASS T.H.C,
ENGINE „
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
HAES & EGGERS LTD.
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Local Agents — * *
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE: Diamond Lubricating and Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Dean & Collie, 335 Queen Street. i
TSie Most Economical Plant in the World is the
The Coal Consumption on Standard Engine
is 0*789 ib. per B.H.P. per hour .
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile.
WOLF’S Standard Locomobiles
are a self-contained complete steam power plant,
including Boiler, fitted with patent, withdrawable Furnace and Tubes, Superheater*,
Engine, Jet or Surface Condenser, Feedwater Heater, Air and Feed Pumps,
alj in one unit,
giving the highest economy in fuel and steam.
They occupy a minimum of floor space, requiring only the lightest foundations, and
are easily attended even by unskilled labor.
In regard to
durability, reliability, steady running, adaptability,
WOLF Superheated Steam Locomobiles at least equal the best steam engine or
turbine plants of several 1000H.P. Their superiority in economy is attained by
their faultless construction and in obviating the many losses, including radiation,
etc., which are unavoidable in steam plants having separate boiler and engine.
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, WOLF Locomobiles
possess the following advantages:—
Cheaper cost of fuel.—Great reserve of power, allowing overloads up to 50
per cent.—Steadiness in running under extreme and sudden variation of
load.—USE ANY KIND OF FUEL, besides coal (wood'waste, logs, peat, tan
bark, sugar cane [,bagasse!', naphtha, petroleum, inferior coal, lignite, etc.).
Utilisation of steam for heating or manufacturing purposes. Easy attend-
ance even by unskilled hands. —Absolute Reliability and Greater Durability,
Greater Simplicity and Continuously Maintained Economy also at Lower
Loads. , _________
In addition to the many Plants already installed throughout
Australia, we are at present installing the following—
W. Angless, Melbourne ••• one 600 B.H.P.
W. Angless, Melbourne ...two 300 „
Clyde Briek Works, Clyde one 260 „
i furrumbidgee Co-operative Flour Milling Co., Wagga - . one 180 „
t f uertb 8 Nall, Sydney one 105 „
N .S.W. Railways, for Pumping Plant ••• - •• one 70 „
N .S.W. Railways (repeat order) one 180 „
P ablic Works Department, for Lithgow Sewerage Works-•• two 18 „
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.


Missing- Friends.
BROWN. —Information is required as co
George Kenny Brown, who formerly
lived at the Crescent, Clontarf, Dublin, Ire-
land ; was afterwards in the Cape Mounted
Police, and later in Australia. Reply to
ARTHUR GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor, 121
Stephens Green, W. Dublin, Ireland.
TF W. LONG would communicate with
the undersigned he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
A. LONG,
Box 3,
Raetihi P. 0.,
New Zealand.
IF JOHN GRIFFEN, formerly of Dune-
din, New Zealand, and more recently be-
lieved to have been at Longreach and Jun-
dah, Queensland, will communicate with the
Public Trustee, New Zealand, he will learn
of something to his advantage.
Any person haying information concern-
ing the said John Griffen is kindly requested
to_ communicate same to the Pubiie Trustee,
Wellington.
NOTICE to WILLIAM SCULLIN (for-
merly of Vermont, U.S.A.). Your
Niece, Clara Electa Scullm Ferrell (brother
John’s daughter), would like to hear fro~>
you.. Address: 142 So. Chalfonte Ave., At-
lantic City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Pub!i~ Notice.
THE PATENTEES of Australian Patent, No.
1 16115, of 24th October, 190 S (George Gilbert Bell
and John St. Vincent Plctts), for “A new or im-
proved method of producing hot water by means of
electricity, and apparatus therefor,” are prepared to
enter into negotiation for, and to complete arrange-
ments by way of license or otherwise, on reasonable
terms, with any persons desiring to exploit or to
adopt and carry on such invention in Australia.
Enquiries to be addressed to IV. J. SPRUSON
Patent Attorney, 91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
Legal Notices.
WILLIAM LIMBdKT HUTCHINSON.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of
1 Justice Chancery Division (in England) made
In the Matter of the Trusts of the Will of THOMAS
STAUGHTON concerning the share of residuary
estate to which WILLIAM LIMBERT HUTCHIN-
SON was entitled if he attained 21 and survived his
mother Mary Hutchinson. And In the Matter of
the Act 10th and 11th Victoria Cap. 96. And In
the Matter of the Trustee Act 1893 (1912 S 018)
and dated the 20th February 1912 whereb}' the fol-
lowing enquiry was directed namely :
Who are the persons legally and beneficially en-
titled and in what shares and proportions to the
funds in Court to the credit of “In the Matter of
the Trusts of the Will of THOMAS STAUGHTON
concerning the share of residuary estate to which
WILLIAM LIMBERT HUTCHINSON was entitled if
he attained 21 and survived his Mother Marv Hut-
chinson.
.NOTICE is HEREBY GIVEN that the said
WILLIAM LIMBERT HUTCHINSON if living or if
he died after the 26th of October 1855 then the
legal . personal representative of and all persons
claiming under the said WILLIAM LIMBERT HUT-
CHJNSON or the issue if any of the said WILLIAM
LIMBERT HUTCHINSON if lie died before the 26th
of October 1855 are personally or by their Solicitors 1
on or before the 19th day of October 1912 to come
m and prove their claims at the Chambers of • Mr.
Justice Joyce and Mr. Justice Eve Room 688 at the
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London England or
m default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 29th day of October 1912 at 12 of
the Clock noon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 29tli day of June 1912
RICH. JOHN VILLIERS,
Master
FORD, LLOYD, BARTLETT and MICIiELMORE,
Solicitors,
, T „ rpt ,, 3°, Bloomsbury Square, London, England.
JNOtE. William Lirnbert Hutchinson was born at
Ayr, in Scotland, on the 19th of October, 1818 ; and
on the 20th of September, 1836, he left Leicester, in
England, for Australia.
H
Amusements.
Kit MAJESTY’S Til EAT ItE, SYDNEY
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE BLUE BIRD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT.
G. Bernard Shaw’s
YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
Played by FREDERICK HARRISON’S
HAYMARKET THEATRE (LONDON) COMPANY.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
X ll K. A TITS' ROYAL, SYI>N E Y.
Direction: ,T. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
And THEIR LONDON COMPANY
in Shakspeare’s Comedy,
THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR
OSCAR ASCHE as FALSTAFP
LILY BRAYTON as MISTRESS FORD.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
pAr, A C E TIIEA T R E, SYDNEY
1 Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-Lessee and Director: ALLEN DOONE.
LAST NIGHTS ALLEN DOONE and MOLLY BAWN
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 24,
Mr. Donne presents his Greatest Comedy,
A ROMANCE IN IRELAND.
SIX NIGHTS ONLY. FAREWELL WEEK
LAST MATINEE MOLLY BAWN, WEDNESDAY at
PRICES : 4/-, 2/6 and 1/- Early Dnors6d. extra.
Rox Plan at Paling’s. Children in arms not admitted.
National ami’Tiitiikatku. sTTTveT
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
CARRIE MOORE. LALIE BROOKE, BUDD & CLARE
LAST NIGHTS OF THE BOHEMIANS
ROYA & REJAN, GUS HARRIS, THE SIDDONS.
SATURDAY NEXT AT MATINEE.
THE OLRACS ; VICTORIA CROSS ; STANLEY
MARGUERITE & STANLEY.
Amusements.
AJ>lslj P H I TIIISAT II E, SYl)>' 15 Y.
Direction and Management, Grorge Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
AN UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS !
GEORGE MARLOW’S SENSATIONAL DRAMA,
THE GIRL WITHOUT A HOME.
A Play with a Purpose.
Produced hy GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
Popular Prices : 4/-, 3/-, ‘I/-, 1/- Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
T o vv n Hai,l, s y d n
Direction PORT US & TALBOT LTD.
K 1 .
CISNEROS’ FAREWELL CONCERT
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING.
POSITIVELY FINAL APPF.ARANCE in Australia of
MADAME
KL HO NO HA DU CIBNUROS,
THE BRILLIANT PRIMA DONNA.
Farewell to the Favorites
PAUL DUFAULT,
JAMES LIEBLING.
Appearance for this Farewell Concert of
IRIS DE CAIROS REGO,
The Talented Pianist.
HAROLD WHITTLE, Accompanist.
PLAN AND UNRESERVED TICKETS AT PALING’S
POPULAR PRICES : 5/-, 3/- 2/-
7" H E LYCEUM, SYDN E V.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAY’S AND THURSDAYS
3YDNEYGIA C I A R I U M,
HEAL IC E SK A 'l' IN G.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2/- SKATE HIRE—6d.
Children Admission—Morning and Afternoon only, 1/-
Saturday Morning: Admission—Children, 6d.
’Phone: 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
THE AIHA M ItltA IIIISA T U 15
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
• PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d., 6d., Is.
*T*HE IMPERIAL RO LEER R INK
Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATUIITNG ALL THAT JS BEST
ROLL lilt SKATING.
JAMES C. BEX DRODT,
General Mnnaiur.
Q LYMI’IA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE”-SATURDAY.
DE GROF.NS NICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
PRO C T O R,
svr
S MARY .
THE DISTINGUISHED LADY ASTRONOMER
(Daughter of the late Richard A. Proctor).
AUSTRALIAN LECTURE TOUR.
(Direction of DIX & BAKER LTD.)
SYDNEY: Y.M.O.A. HALL. THURSDAY, FRIDAY
and Saturday.
MATINEE FOR SCHOOLS: SATURDAY, at S p.m.
W ALLACE BROWN, Representai ive.
R PcK AItI) S’ TIVOLI ~~T IfV A~r"ltls.
* General Manager: Mll. JOHN C LKFTF
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SCHENK BUG I HERS. Sensational Equilibrists,
wrrnrm RICH & RICH. Real Racy Comedians.
THREE SISTERS SPRIGH I LKY, Burlesque Artistes.
MISS JEssiE STUART, Vocal Comedienne
ST^I R rP'm^,SSU NTETTE ’ Ba "j° & Harp Specialists.
FRED BLUEir, Australia’s Favorite Comedian.
A ddtcm'V 1 COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
o
Plslt A II OU S 15. MELBO Ult N
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
THE RALLIS & WILSON TRIO, Comedy Acrobats.
MISS NELLA WEBB, the American Diseuse.
MOZZETTO, the Great Juggler.
TOM DAWSON, the Original Australian Comedian.
LA FREYA, in a Series of Beautiful and Artistic Visions.
ARDO, the Human Frog.
Plan at Allan’s.
’RICES—3s., 25., Is.
> ItINCKSK’S THEATRE. MEI.GoUtNK
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 24,
GEORGE MARLOW LTD.
will offer
BROUGHT TO PUT N.
The Story of a Girl’s Betrayal.
Prices 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
T H ® H 1 XfP* ril EA Tlt 15, Ml 5 I, HOUR N l5
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson
EVERY EVENING AT 750
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
including th- Popular Young Actor, CYRIL MACK AY
in Charles Darrell’s Sensational Romantic Drama ’
THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BIT.
; Overflowing Audiences nightly testify to its
Wonderful P pular'ity.
Popular Prices : 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plans at Allan’s & The Grand.
Amusements.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., rraliran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Muca Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. Grl. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lvrie Theatre Cafe.
LUNN CONCERTS.
J. & N. TAIT
announce with pleasure the Australian and New Zealand
Tour of
THE WORLD-FAMOUS SINGER,
MADAME KIKKIiY LUNN,
GREATEST DRAMATIC CONTRALTO OF OUR TIME.
“ A voice of Purple Velvet shot with Gold.”
—Birmingham Post.
Supported by a
Brilliant Combination of Distinguished Artists.
ANDREW SHANKS, Baritone.
ANDRE DE RIBAUPIERRE, Violinist.
WILLIAM MURDOCH, Pianist.
MELBOURNE CONCERTS:
TOWN HALL, AUGUST 24, 28. 31 ; SEPTEMBER 3 and
5 (Matinee).
SYDNEY CONCERTS:
SEPTEMBER 12, 14, 37, 19 (Matinhe) and 21.
Ilox Plans : Melbourne at Allan’s ; Sydney at Nicholson’s.
|cIGTT D I N G.
Melbourne GLACIA KITJM.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
SEASON POSITIVELY CLOSES AUGUST 31.
RUOU THEATRE, M ITUVoU RN E.
Sole Lessee & Manager : WILLIAM COSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
The Great Military Drama, appertaining to the Boer War,
Til E EIGMiIiNG CHANCE.
Suggested by Richard Dehan’s DOP DOCTOR.
A GREAT PLAY. NEEDS NO PUFF.
THRILLING AND HIGHLY SENSATIONAL.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Box Plan at Allan’s.
Representative : CLIFFORD FERLEY.
[_jj RR MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE RETURN OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
A STRONG CAST OF FAVORITES.
Reappearance of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
THE QUAKER GTE. L.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
THEN.EI M HALL, MELBOURNE.
FAREWELL TO AUSTRALIA
A LEX AND EE, WATSON,
The Most Dramatic and Most, Humorous Entertainer that
has visited Australia.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) MACBETH
TO-MORROW (FRIDAY) THE CAROL
SATURDAY, 24th inst. .. POPULAR PROGRAMME
MONDAY, 26th i list... .. .. TWELFTH NIGHT
TUESDAY, 27th inst. .. .. M ISCELLA.N EOUS
3/-, 2/-, 1 /- Family Tickets, 10/- Plans at. Pianola.
Commence at 8. ; CARLYLE SMYTHE.
OE Y M P I A. O L Y M P I A.
I. Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
\A/ E S T’S PALACE, M ELBOtRNE.
the best WEST’S PICT DUES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees AVednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the AVorlii.
PRE-EMINENT IN TAVO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture AVorthv of Note alwavs to he
seen at AVEST’S .PICTURES. Complete Change
every wepk. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s
Business 'Notices.
CARBIDE.
For First=Class
Results use
Best
gdf
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ajr nts for Australia.
r~3
go
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and reliable remedy
1 for treating diseases of ALL
mucous mqmbranes, such as
discharges from thenose,throat
stomach and urinary organs.
fT CHEMISTS
Why not iure yourself ?
Treatise with each bottle
\or mailed on request.
The Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio
x^IU.S.A.
ELOCUTION BY POST,
THE DISTINGUISHED ACTOR
WALTER BENTLEY
OF WORLD=WIDE FAME
TEACHES BY POST, or by Private Lessons.
TT*e Stage a Specialty. Many engagements made.
All further information and arrangement of time of Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at. he College or by letter. 554 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Government Notices.
Department: of Defence,
Melbourne, stli August, 1912.
Royal Military College of Australia.
, A N EXAMINATION for entrance to the
! ioya , ,F llltary College of Australia
win be held commencing on the
November, 1912, in each State capital.
1' orms of application, and full particulars
may be had on application to the Command-
f. nt ’ ,If,°. ya l Military College, Duntroon, or
tlie Military Commandant in each State
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary,
Department of Defence.
Department of Home Affairs,
Naval College, Jervis Bay,
25 th July, 1912.
TENDERS will be received up to 3 pm
on MONDAY, th 2nd day of gg;
inMiiJiiß, tor the supply and delivery of
hardwood timber to Captains Point, Jervis
Bay, tor the construction of the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College buildings. Specifica-
tions and conditions of contract may be seen
oa a PP llcation to the Department of Home
Affairs, Courthouse, Nowra, the Resident
Engineer’s Office, Huskisson, N.S.W., the
Postmaster, Wollongong, and the Works
Director, N. S. Wales, Customs House, 4th
bloor, Sydney.
Tenders to be endorsed as above, and to
be addressed (if by post prepaid) to the
Supervising Engineer, Naval College, Court
House, Nowra, N. S. Wales.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted. Tenders are to be in all
cases on the printed forms, which can be
obtained at the abovementioned offices.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA^
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 12th August, 1912.
SEPARATE TENDERS will be received
Noon on MONDAY, the 26th
AUGUST, 1912, for the following works:—
(a) Repairs to Fence at Randwick
Rifle Range,.
(6) Erection of Three Telephone Cabi-
nets at Mosman Post and Tele-
graph Office.
(c) External painting and minor re-
pairs to Buildings at Randwick
Rifle Range.
Specifications and plans may be seen at
the Office of the Works Director for New
gourh Wales, Customs House (4th Floor).
Sydney, to whom tenders endorsed with the
name of the respective works should be ad-
dressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, Bth August, 1912.
Kalgoorlie-P ort Augusta Railway.
Reinforced Concrete Service Reservoirs.
SEPARATE TENDERS addressed to
• * Secretary, Department of Home
Affairs, Melbourne,” will be received (ac-
companied by designs and full working
Specifications, setting, out the materials,
proportions of cement mortar or concrete
mixture, type and details of reinforcement)
uatl J, Noon on TUESDAY, the 17th day
of SEPTEMBER, 1912, for the construc-
tion at Port Augusta, of* two reinforced con-
crete reservoirs of 60,000 gallons capacity,
one tor salt water and the other for fresh.
A general drawing, showing the character
of the reservoirs required, can be seen after
the 12th day of AUGUST at the Office of
the Engineer-in-Chief, Commonwealth Raib
ways Construction Branch, corner Market
and Flinders Lane. Melbourne; at
the Office of the Works Director, Customs
House, Sydney; and at the office of the
Commonwealth Public Service Inspectors
at Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart,
respectively, also at the office of the Super-
vising Engineer. Port Augusta.
I'he sites will be pointed out on the
ground to intending tenderers, on or after
the luth AUGUST by the Officer in Charge.
Tenders should be endorsed : “Tender for
Salt Hater (or Fresh Water, as the case
may be) Service Reservoirs for Kalgoorlie-
-1 ort Augusta Railway.”
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 15th August, 1912.
Tenders for Alterations to Boat Slip at
Naval Depot, Rushcutter’s Bay.
TENDERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY, 2nd SEPTEMBER, 1912,
for alterations to Boat Slip at Naval Depot.
RUSHCUTTER’S BAY.
Specification may be seen at the Office of
Hie Works Director for New South Wales,
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney, to
whom tenders, endorsed as above, should be
addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 15th' August, 1912.
-[CORRIGENDUM.]
Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta Railway.
Reinforced Concrete Service Reservoirs.
WITH reference to advertisement invit-
ing tenders for the construction
of two Reinforced Concrete Service Reser-
voirs at Port Augusta in connection
with the Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Rail-
way, it is notified that the capacity of the
Reservoirs is to be 132,Q00 gallons instead
of 60,000 gallons, as previously stated.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
R. 12/1690.
IF YOU LIKE DETECTIVE STORIES
you should not miss reading “The
Drawn Blind,” appearing in The Lone
Hand each month.
“Ganesha,” from the colored quarters of
Melbourne: —
The Fast of Ramadan has begun. The city is
at peace, praise be to Allah ! Mahommed Ali, Abdul
Khan, Hassan and Hosein, and the Shiek Abdulla put
their bundles in the corner, listen to the Koran, and
fast hard in Arabic. No more do our fellow-subjects
stalk picturesquely down the street in pink, white,
and yellow turbans and shabby trousers. Nay, they
sit down solemnly in a small, heavily-perfumed room,
and testify that there is no God but God, and Bruce
Smith is his prophet. The muezzin calleth the faith-
ful to prayer in Exhibition-street, and the domes and
minarets of Little Lon. shine resplendent in the
moonlight. A fast, a little peace, and then lo!
Abdulla and Hassan and Mahommed rise in their
glory, full of faith and feast and fervor, visit the
merchants in Flinders-lane, and blow gracefully over
the country, frightening the cockie’s wife and cows
and kids, manipulating a big bundle of scented soap,
blouses, hatpins and sundries, giving free and fra-
grant expression to the Faith that is in them, that
Birmingham goods are cheap, the British Empire a
province of Islam, and White Australia a theory that
is never put into practice.


by making use of
suck a satisfactory
metkod of cleaning
tbe teetk as
w
Eflfi
Rwder
It is pleasant to know tkat you
kave polisked so nicely tliose teetk
tkat sliow.
It is satisfactory to feel tliat
your teetk are all properly cared
for : —tkorougkly cleansed witli
tills antiseptic dentifrice*
And it leaves suck a pleasant
feeling of freskness in tke moutk.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER FROM
GOLJT
or
Rheumatism?
Professor Berscham's Gout and ' Rheumatic
Cachets inboxes of i doz. as. 6d, adoz. 4s.
Incomparable, Alleviating and Harmless.
A trial box will prpve efficacy. Posted to any
address in the Commonwealth.
Sox No. 03 1, G P.O . Melbourne. Vic
A Great Sufferer who had used
many “other” Remedies without avail,
writes of her experience with
gd
PILE
Mrs. Harriet Willard, Brown’s Creek,
via.Bfayiiey,N-S.W,, says:—"l am very
thankful to let you know that your-won-
derful Pile Remedy has cured me.
It has been a blessing to me after all the
years I have suffered, and I cannot
speak too highly of/it. Many
people here who know how I suffered are
surprised at the change in my condi-
tion.”
Peters’ Pile Cure is Easy to
Apply.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
Wholesale Distributors for Australia
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
UMC
fgdg
dg
The straight-shooting;, hard-
hitting, sure-firing .22’s.
The reason why UMC .22 Cart-
ridges are the best is that they
are made with precisely the same
care, the same tested materials,
and undergo the same rigid safe-
guards as the heavier calibre,
big game shooting UMC am mu
nition.
. UMC .22’s are also made with
the hollow point bullets, which
increase their shocking and kill-
ing power over the old solid
bullet.
Try Our New “Besmok” ,22’s.
UMC .22 short, .22 long,
.22 long rifle Lesmok.
Smokeless and Black
Powder —as you wish.
Remington Arms —
Union Metallic Cart-
ridge Co.
H. Molden, Australasian
Representative, P.O. Box
45 9, Melbourne; 13 49,
Sydney. [1
a
df
“IjJNSEED COMPOUND.”
ltemedy” for Coughs and Colds,
proven efficacy.
The “Stockport
Of 40 years’
Australian Mutual
Air Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiol
Established: 1849.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox. Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. \V. APPERLY, Secretary.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
gd
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection ;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT CSL SON, 137-9 King' Street, Sydney
Will Andrape ™> BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Kecitations.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(?) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
£
Easy Method of Learning French, German, Italian, Spanish, 1/7
each language; Speeches and Toasts for all occasions, 1/1; Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of Vital Power,
5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweet-
hearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illustrated,
7d. ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Book of Love Letters, 1/-; How to
Woo and Win, 1/1; Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets,
1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1; Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing
Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act Farces. 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues,
1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1; “How Old Mose Counted the Eggs” and
116 Other Humorous Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations,
1/1; “How Sockery Set a Hen” and other Comic Recitations, 1/1;
Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1 ; 1401 Conundrums and Riddles, 1/1;
Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and Clairvoyance,
1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach Animal
Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1;
Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6; New 1912 edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New Tricks with Cards, 1/-;
House Painting, Paperhanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/1; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8 ; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor,
Jr/-; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-.
tm-ADID ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention Tun Bullktin.
Above : prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do
CATALOGUES
31 FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
CobberMouth Organs
coa&e/?
v—< tm b rg era e-a KS3 EBS
No. 1. —The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ... 3/“
No. 2. —The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case ... —2/“
No. 3. —The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
No. 4. —The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/-
Sold by all Stores.
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A. E. Beal, East St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, I y aunceston;
G. W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne;
Optical & Photo Supplies Co.,
Hay St., Perth.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by alf Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
&
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . in the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750
3rd Prize, value £250
2nd Prize, value £4OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglan,
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
CASTRATION
Our Emasculator combines the best American
ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. gpigr-EASY TO USE.
451-
Post Free Anywhere,
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
fgd
SHARPE & SHARPE
' 18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off
them—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain !
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side of
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why these,
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
, , ~ „ . the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is -not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair.
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
Vv e have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night., and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they, are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
0 X'
f V .> \ J
S’ <0
fv
,-V* s>oV
c> a G ~
- A <0 v-
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. — Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register it.
fg
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
(/each
POST FREE •
Quality not
Better in a
Guinea Pipe.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
HAYMARKET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
HI MROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
Whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold, in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
TOUR LETTER
m
BSS
ZANETIC
fcoipiEtv
VgrmouT
■EFFORT.
wnw*-
COPYING
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as you write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying"
The letter is posted and the book
putaway. 400 Octavo (Bin. by 5 )
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
in N.S.C./200, Post Free for 3/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S.C./400, Post Free, for 5/-.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. 8/- Post
Free: or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetic Pens, 3d. doz., 2/- gross. Zanetio Writing Parer, size
8x 5,1/- pkt., 10 xB, 2/- Sample of the Zanetic Ink paper which
produces this result, Free, if stamped envelope sent to :
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welfqrd Road, LEICESTER, England.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
df
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F.. or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, takedown action, open front and rear sights
weight Postage 1/9 N.fe.lV., 3/2 Inter - State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear, 37/6.
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each
extra.
25! -
“ The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks. 24in. barrel, length over all 38|in., weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
35/-
lira
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
1G shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. 42 j 6
gdf
Send for our Illustrated Sports,
Fishing and Tobacco Lists, FREE.
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end, weight 12-gauge, about 71b., 16-gauge, about 6jlb. Delivered, £3115
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney ; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [2
You Want This Saddle.
Yes? Well, you will know better than we
do the value of a comfortable saddle.
OUR QUEENSLAND PARR NO. 2
combines comfort for rider and horse. It is
only 151 b. in weight, and will answer the
purpose of stock riding, polo playing, or
hacking. It has a nice narrow waist for
grip, and a good sweep in the seat. The
flaps are soft kip leather and splendid for
grip, besides being light.
This saddle is fitted up with bevelled and
numbered leathers, solid nickel stirrups and
short double folded leather girths.
Freight paid to any Port in
Australia, if Cash is sent
with order, or any Railway
Station in New South Wales.
£5/15/-
(The same saddle sold in the Country for £6/15/-)
Wrile to-day for our New Illustrated Book,
“EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE.”
Over 120 Illustrations, post free.
Edward Butler 8 Sons Limits
The Sydney
Saddlers,
257 George St., Sydney
gd
h
u
m
a
m
■
For BILIOUSNESS &*INDIGESTION
polls
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned— Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
Cockle’s Pills conquer Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
kind; because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
which they cleanse and regulate with such consummate ease and efficiency.
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
disease. Yet Cockle’s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
T NSULATE your foundation against the dampness of the soil by coating
the walls and floors with Congo Damp Course. This dense, waterproof
fabric can be buried in wet ground without the slightest danger of deteriora-
tion. It will keep the walls perfectly dry and will also repel vermin, ants, etc.
Any man can apply it properly. It is made in seven different widths to suit
all sorts of conditions. Sample on request.
AuaNlS: —i\oyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd.,
Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton;
Harrold Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ;
William Hart & Sons, Launceston: T. A. Jr.. ll obart, Tasmania.
Damp Course
JL
JL
JL
Jl
1
ii*' %
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
W indow Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not 'Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Ta'u&ht, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
fgd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their phj'sician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hotle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established So Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FRO/! THIS A DVT.
Wirite for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 64
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to. all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingbrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Qpurt of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
r-ound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, "Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


fg
A
Skin Turned Sallow.
Head Felt Ready to Burst.
COMPLETE HEALTH RESTORED.
A NOTIIER splendid cure by Bile
Beans is that of Miss R. Baker, of
*• Wilton Street, off Ipswich Road, Woolloon-
gabba, Brisbane, who says: “From childhood I was
subject to biliousness. Dizziness caused my head to feel as if it were
turning round, and it would ache something fearful. Terrific pains
across my temples nearly drove me distracted. These attacks would
continue for a while, and I would become fearfully sick and retch most
violently, the sensations of which were horrible. Utter prostration
followed, after which I would sleep for hours. My skin turned sallow
and the whites of my eyes yellow. During the many years I suffered I
tried many remedies and medicines, but these all failed to give me any
relief, and I did not get better. After reading of some Bile Bean cures
I commenced a course of this grand medicine. After only a few doses
the bilious attacks became less severe, and I found I could eat a little
food without vomiting after. This was so encouraging that I persisted
in taking Bile Beans until the biliousness was completely ended and I
was fully restored to perfect health. Now I never suffer from drowsiness
or bilious symptoms, and find that an occasional dose of Bile Beans
certainly keeps me healthy and strong.”
Miss
Baker,
photo,
taken after
her splendid
cure by Bile
Beans.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE,
The above testimony of Miss Baker is typical of the perfect curative virtues of
this sterling family medicine, in all cases of liver, stomach, digestion, and other
women’s ailments. Bile Beans have proved a never-failing remedy in all cases of
biliousness indigestion, headache, jaundice, impure blood, dizziness, nausea,
sleenlessness pains in the chest, pains in the back, pimples, liver chill, belching,
constipation,’ piles, flatulence, liver trouble, spasms, stomach trouble, digestive
disorders, skin eruptions, offensive breath, “wind,” fulness after meals, loss of
appetite, and in fact, all common family ailments.
V.
m
eans
Bile Beans can be
obtained from all
Chemists and Stores
at 1/15 per box, or
2/9 special family
size (containing
three times the
1/15 box), which for
economy is specially
recommended for
general family use;
or direct from the
Bile Bean Manufac-
turing Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
Xhe question of to-day t
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion. If. on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the shin generally— you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that*
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
for the Complexion.
Matchless
The Clerks of Darby Bates.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I T isn’t mining—its comic opera,” said
Billy Pagan, as we stood under the
shelter before the shingle office of the
Pudding Hills mine.
The daily rains of the Tasmanian ’West
Coast had already made runnels of black
water over the quartzite rubble of the paths
cut through the peaty button grass, the
water taking its coaly tint as it filtered
through the decayed vegetable matter of the
peat. Mists and jungle topped by ash and
honeysuckle trees, with a wall-like under-
growth of fern, half hidden by musk-scrub
and hazel, closed the outlook before us. Be-
hind and to the right were heavily-timbered
mountains, whose crests held the show-
ers in the afternoons and discharged
them regularly between midnight and noon-
day. At our left was the great conglomer-
ate outcrop that gave the Pudding Hills
Copper and Gold Mines Limited their name.
“I can’t get the hang of mining, some-
how,” I replied, “but even I can see the
thing’s an utter fraud.”
"It’s more than utter —it’s funny.”
“I don’t expect the shareholders would see
the humor of it.”
“No. Yet probably at this moment there
is a beautifully-dressed gentleman in Lon-
don addressing the shareholders, and all of
them bleating, ‘Yer, yer !’ whenever he stops
to think of another lie.”
“But how can it have lasted two years
without discovery?”
“Easily. The company has a very big
working capital, and the value or valueless-
ness of a mine is rarely held to be proved
until the capital is exhausted. When Ihe
wrong kind of manager knows that his salary
is safe for a few ychrs ahead, he takes an
optimistic view of tile most discouraging de-
velopments. It is the manager of the no-
liability company that is making penny
calls who looks gloomily at ihe two inches
of reef on the hanging wall.”
“But how did this man get the manage-
ment? He’s the Inost ignorant and con-
ceited ass I ever met.”
“Easy enough. There’s the Westralian
boom and the Queensland boom in full
blast, and there are more mines in Westralia
than (here are competent managers in the
continent. Darby Bates, who is managing
this show”
“A man who can neither read nor write,
Billy!”
“AH the better that a good man isn t
(thrown away on, such ;a show. Look at it.
A big body of silicion® iron with a trace of
gold in it.”
“His ignorance saves him.”
“Yes —he’s honest enough. He believes
every word he says. Told me as seriously
as a judge that the mine was a big smelting
proposition, with good gold values.”
I laughed with him. “How did he imag-
ine the gold into the thing, Billy?”
“Oh, somebody banned a prospect in a
creek a mile away, and got two colors of gold
in the dish, and Darby says it’s derived
from this hill, fie told me he had written
to the London office last week that the whole
mountain is ‘cupiferous, auriferous, argen-
tiferous and ferriferous.’ ”
"Where in thunder did he find the words !
“A clerk beforfe this one gave them to
him.” . .
“He’s a good clerk, is this chap.
“He knows mote of mining than Darby,
and he tries to make the reports guarded
enough. He’s fond of Darby, although
Darby’s always bullying him.” •
“But he needn’t write exactly as Darby
says.” . . .
“Needn’t he? Darby insists on Grainger
reading out the letter, and Grainger is
honest.” , . ,
“But how has the little beast hypnotised
Grainger?” .
“He’s fond of Darby! Strange, I grant
—but you can no more explain friendship
than you can fexplain love or luck. But
Grainger doesn’t hamper Darby or make
him uncomfortable with respect. Do
you notice how npbody says ‘Mister’ to the
manager? Even the whim-boy calls him
‘Darby.’ ”
“S-s-sh! Here he comes.
Darby advanced, rolling in his gait like
a drunken sailor, though he was a teetotaler.
His short, squat body spoke of brutal
strength. His bqll neck and red face and
small characterless features spoke of mon-
strous ignorance and equally colossal
vanity. “Hello, boys,” said he, “ ’avin a
look at the houfprop?” . , ,
Billy laughed. “No, I know it by heart,
Darby.” . , ,
“You must be smart, then —seem’ you only
come yestiddy. She’s a great mine, am t
she?”
We laughed at one another.
“Oh! Larf a\yay! Larf away! Come
in outer the dqmp. Charley Grainger s
waitin’ for, me. It’s the day for. me to
write the Hengljsh letters. Come in outer
the damp.” . , _ ,
We followed tflm into the of ? ce ’ knowing
that he only wanted us as audience.
“Are yer ready, clerk?”
“All right, Dgrby, said he. Hello,
dirlbs ;
The’ “Darby” before strangers irritated
the manager, apd the implied equality of
“Hello, mates,” prompted him to show his
superiority.
“Gotter pen?”
“Yes,” said Charley.
“Got the hinlp?”
“Yes.”
“An’ the pappr?”
“Yes.”
“Gotter goos pen?”
“Y£s—yes.”
“Bat the hipk on it.”
! WJII that do?”
“Now put down —‘Hover burden.’ ”
“I’ve written it.”.
r ’Ave yer wrote it big?”
“Oh, big enough !” .
“Arnster me —’Ave yer wrote it big i
“Oh. yes! Oh, yes.! I’ll write it with a
broom-handle if you like.”
“ ’Oo’s the pianager —you or me? Harnser
me that?” ,
“You are ! You are ! I m nobody. 1 m
dead. You’re tlffi manager.”
“That’s right then, boy. Now write. —
No. 1 level.” , „ TT
Grainger flushed at the word boy. He
was not old enoiigh for the term to have
lost its sting, and Darby Bates knew it.
“Don’t I «sav anything after ‘Overburden?’
You know, like ‘removed a thousand cubic
yards,’ or something like that?”
“Go on! Go on! Yer cheeky pup. Will
yer learn me?” (Then in a voice of terrible
calm) : “Put down ‘Number one level.
“Oh, all right—there. It’s down.
“Now put a semi-comma hafter.
“You mean a semi-colon?”
“Oh! I do, do I! Put down a semi-
comma, or I’ll sack yer.”
“Anything for peace. I don t know what
it is, but I’ll put it down.” .
“Yer can’t if yer don’t know what it is.
I’ll show yer. Darby handled the pen us it
it were a shovel, grunted, took a great dip
of ink, made a blot, licked it off, and spat
it out, grunted again and then drew a new
animal which looked something like a
broken-backed snake, and had also a sug-
gestion of a crippled crab.
“There,” he said triumphantly, that s a
semi-comma.” .
Grainger wearily agreed by his silence,
and waited fo” orders.
“Now put down: ‘Winze from number
OD6 level.* "
“But don’t I say anything about the level
being extended north?” T .
“O, Lord! O, Lord! Do what I tell
“All right! All right! ALL RIGHT!
Go on!” , _ ,
“Winze fr’m number one level — nother
semi-comma.”
“Yes.”
“Gotter ’nother semi-comma?” . .
“Oh, yes!” said the clerk, drawing an imi-
tation of the ravening and profane beast in-
vented by Darby.
“Gotter ’nother semi-comma?
“Ves, I told you.”
“Well, put it then.”
“I’ve done it.”
“Well, put another.”
“What do you want two together, for?
“What do I want? Ain’t I the manager?
“Oh, yes! Oh, yes! Anything!
“Well, I’m general manager, an’ bein’ so,
I’ll have a ’undred semi-commas if I warn;
’em. You do’s yer told if yer want ter
stay with the ‘Pudden’ ’lll Copper an Gold
Mines, Limerted,’ which she ain’t, bem a
great pyrytic propersition.”
“All right! All right! What’s next,
Darby?”
“Put ‘Reserves hof hore.
“Yes ! I’ve got it —‘ore reserves.
“What I said was ‘reserves hof hore’ —put
it the way I said.”
“Oh ! There you are : ‘Reserves of ore.
“ ’Nother semi-comma.”
“O Hell! Yes, I’ve got it.”
“Now put ‘One million four ’undred thou-
sand tons.’ ” (Grainger whistled and we
grinned.) Up to that moment we had con-
sumed our own laughter, though suffering
greatly.
Then said Grainger: “Well, I’ve not seen
ten tons in the whole show. Isn’t that too
stron 0 ’ ?**
“Too strong! Why, yer flamin’ cub, I’ll
say what I like. Ain’t I the general man-
ager? Ain’t I?”
“Oh ! Yes ! You’re the manager and the
main shaft, and the tunnel, and the poppet
heads. You’re everybody.”
“That’s all right. You remember it, and
don’t harnser back. Now, then, put ‘con-
clusions’ and two semi-commas.”
“O Hell! Again ! All right, I’ve got
“Now go back to ‘lloverburden.’ Say:
‘The hoverburden is on top of the lode, ; ex-
eep’ what we ’ave shifted, a matter o 20
ton for the week. The quartz porphery”—-
“I can’t get that in. I’ve only got half a
line before ‘Number one level.’ ”
“Well! You are a cuckoo. W’y didn’t
yer leave plenty o’ room?”
“You never told me to.”
“Never told yer! Can’t yer do anything
without me?”
“No. You’re the manager.”
“Ham I? Ham I? I’ll show yer who s
the manager, yer cub. You can clear outer
this t’morrow.”
“That being so,” said Grainger, write
your report yourself.” He tore up the paper
with the “semicommas” on it, and walked
away to his own camp.
Darby Bates gasped in surprise at the
sudden defiance. He had presumed on
Grainger’s friendliness, had irritated him
beyond bearing, and now the worm had
turned.
“The d’rectors sha’n’t ’ave no report at
all this week,” he said in a loud tone of de-
termination. # #
For the three months that followed, Billy
Pagan and I were in Victoria, working a
little and loafing a great deal. And then,
early one morning, while I sat on the veran-
dah of my hotel at St. Kilda, looking at the
lazy waves of Port Phillip Bay tumbling c>n
the long shoals, I heard Billy’s voice in-
quiring my whereabouts. I arose and
leaned over the balcony rail and called to
him: —
“Come uo, Billy.”
He raced up the stairs, two steps at a
time, and stood before me, radiating
strength and energy.
“What’s up, Billy? You’re early abroad.
“Yes. A cable came this morning while
I was playing with the youngsters. So I
got into clothes when I saw it was serious,
and raced down here on the hike.”
“What’s it about?”
“It’s from Harmer. Here you are.”
“Shares rising rapidly on glowing reports
from Pudding Hills. Examine and cable
report. Advise whether we shall immedi-
ately close our bear even at a big loss.”
“So Harmer has sold a bear of Pudding
Hills ?”
“What do you think? I reported Darby
Bates’s letter, writing fully, and Harmer
wrote me that it was the most humorous
mining report he had ever seen.”
“And on the report he made his bear?”
“Yes. He’s sold ’em by the thousand,
and they were dropping slowly every settle-
ment. But five weeks ago they began to
move upwards. Here’s Harmer’s last letter.
It came yesterday. This is what he says” :
To our surprise, Pudding Hills moved upwards over
par during this week. We have sold them down to
16s. As you know, the mine has been practically in-
operative for a long time, and it was so lifeless that
we figured on selling right away to vanishing point.
Gregor}' said only a foftnight ago that we needn’t
talk of buying orders until the stock was in the vicin-
ity of a shilling or two. We are, therefore, a little
anxious to know if there is anything in the rumors
of the mine really striking a payable ore body. We
anticipate nothing else than the .refutation of these
rumors by the collapse of the people who are buying.
We certainly believe that the next few weeks will see
the stock at three-quarters or so ; and we are conse-
quently continuing the bear, hut, of course, with
(Continued on next page.)


“That Backache Worries Me.”
How many people suffer constantly from lame, aching backs,
and don t know why ? Backache is kidney-ache in most cases.
The kidneys (located in the small of the back) ache and throb
with dull pain, because there is a congestion or inflammation
within. You can t get rid of that ache until you cure the cause —
the kidneys. Doan s Backache Kidney Pills cure sick Kidneys,
and thus drive away backache for good. If it hurts your back to
stoop or lift —if you suffer sudden, darting pains through the
hips, loins and sides, suspect the kidneys. There will be other
signs, too : headaches, dizziness, scanty or painful urination, too
frequent urination, rheumatism, brick-dust sediment in the urine,
nervousness, or a constant tired feeling. Take Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. 1 housands have found quick relief and lasting
cures through this famous kidney remedy.
A LASTING SYDNEY CURL
™ i d -° ct I °f’ and unde rwent treatment, and, each one failing to do me good, advised me
to go into the hospital for an operation. They said my case was almost hopeless and that an
of wJ} Ce ’ T the kid , neys wa * in a very diseased state, i’ took medicines
ail sorts, the empty bottles alone being worth a considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was’
in such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe pains in the bX
Thp fa ® s ’ headach ? s ’ and scalding urine. I was completely done up, and scarcely able to lift anything.’
KidnevVX a n t ?V m f °V h i e ° peratlon ’ wheil a frien d asked me if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache
and for tol im e he T knex T of a man who was as bad as I was, and had been cured completely
Pni« A g f d e VV i F U r‘ l Postponed the operation, and commenced taking Doan’s Backache Kidney
„ . A fortnight later I returned to work, and the men there could not believe that the change thev
a= W fiJ Q f me W °Y ld ever iave be< i n P° ssible - Th ere is no doubt it is wonderful. lam quite cured, and
as fit for work as a man could be.” ’
the imlfnrt/nf Hig sn? S .e says : “The above statement is true, every word, and I can now add
«!^ 1 ? iporta ? t tb Yu \ st , lll _| ree of every distressing symptom of Kidney trouble. My lasting
cure is proof positive that Doan s Backache Kidney Pills wili cure serious kidney complaint.”
SJfflM
Backache
Kidney
df
J/
%
\
Every Picture
Tells A Story'.'
Of all Chemists and Stores, 2s. 9d. per
bottles six bottles, 15s. 3d.; or post
free, direct from Foster-McClelletn Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
caution. If we have not cabled you by the time you
read this, you need not bother about the matter, as
in that case and by then it will have answered itself.
But should we cable you, please understand that it
will be sufficiently urgent for you to put out of your
mind all the ideas formed from the first visit, and to
make a thorough re-examination. In anticipation of
this we have already secured, through a third party
who is friendly with the Board, permission for our
engineer (name not stated, as they probably know
you advise us) to examine the property.
“You are going, then?”
“And you too, if you will come.”
“I’ll go like a shot, Billy.”
We reached the Pudding Hill late in the
afternoon of a Friday—Darby Bates’s mail
day—the day that had been Grainger’s
Waterloo. Darby was fatter and more florid
and more aggressive than ever. He availed
himself of our services as audience, and
swaggered like a comic-opera emperor before
us—walking the floor of the office with his
old air of dignity and importance ludic-
rously exaggerated. But in his new clerk,
who called him “Mister Bates,” and whom
he in turn called “Mister Bloom,” he found
a willing slave. Bloom was a dandy, his
clothes cut in London West End fashion,
his bright yellow leggings spotless as those
of the West End youth who wears Norfolk
suits in the city and talks his sport instead
of doing it. He was slight and dapper, and
had a fine taste in decorative Japanese neck-
ties. His small black moustache was waxed
flat and curled stiffly upwards in semi-
crescents. I thought I detected in his
politeness something sardonic and mocking,
as if his demeanor to Darby Bates was a
private joke of his own.
“Me noo clerk,” said Darby. “Mr. Pagan,
Mr. Fleet, Mr. Bloom. This gentle-
man was sent out by the directors, ' Mr.
Pagan, when they knoo I wanted a clerk.
’Ave a smoke, Mr. Pagan. Light up, Mr.
Fleet! Rather ’ave yer pipe? Now, then,
Mister Bloom.”
“Ready, Mr. Bates.”
“Put the pen in the hink.”
“Yes, Mr. Bates.”
“Put down ‘Hoverburden.’ ”
“ ‘Overburden’—l’ve got it, Mr. Bates.”
“Ave yer wrote it big?”
“Yes, Mr. Bates.”
“Put a semi-comma?”
“Yes, Mr. Bates.”
He drew the maniacal hieroglyph invented
by Darby as seriously as if nothing foolish
were implied by the order. His impassive
face showed no amusement, and, watching
him, I felt no amusement either. Billy
Pagan leaned back in his chair and smoked
luxuriously, as if his mind was quite blank
of though 1 - or speculation, but I knew that
already the game was beaun. Yet here only
the cards were dealt. The stakes were all
in London.
“Put down: ‘Main shaft sunk to three
’undred feet.’ ”
“Yes, Mr. Bates.”
“Winze fr’m number one level.”
“Yes, Mr. Bates.”
“Number one tunnel.”
“Yes, Mr. Bates.”
“Put down TWO semi-commas.”
He said it triumphantly, as if none could
doubt the dignity of a man who used two
of these wild animals of scrivening at once.
“Yes, Mr. Bates.”
“That’ll do for it now. I’ll give yer the
measurements after we’ve been through the
mine.”
“Yes, Mr. Bates.”
The clerk leaned back in his chair, his
pale face still impassive; his white hand
smoothed his black hair outwards from its
ceutral parting.
“How do you like Tasmania, Mr. Bloom?”
asked Billy.
The pale face flushed a little. He had
not expected the sudden interest in himself.
“\ery well, thanks —although the climate
is worse than London.”
“You don’t like London?”
“No —not for its climate. My lungs are
weak, I think.”
“Ever been out of England before?”
“Yes; in South Africa.”
“You had better health there?”
“Yes. I’m as hard as nails in a dry
climate.”
“There’s too much rainfall for you here.
Well, Mr. Bates, I’ll go below now.”
“All right,” said Darby, rising. “I’ll get
the shift boss to show you through after
he’s given me the footage for the week.”
Darby detained the shift boss half-way
through the tunnel, and we walked on
through the long drive that showed country
rock everywhere, and never a sign of ore.
“Going to sample her, Billy?”
“There’s nothing to sample. But we’ll
take samples of the country.”
“Why give yourself that work?”
“So as to find out what Mr. Bloom
knows.”
“D’ye think he knows anything?”
“Why not? He’s been in South Africa,
hes intelligent, and he’s got a fine nerve.
Do you notice how he takes all that Bates
says as if it were gospel?”
“He’s been here two months nearly. He’s
used to it by now.”
“Has it occurred to you to wonder why a
dandy like that should be here clerking in
a climate that doesn’t suit him, and keeps
lum ill, and working under an ignorant brute
like Bates?”
“It did strike me as strange.”
“And a clerk with a diamond ring! He’s
here for loot.”
“But how does he manage it?”
“I don’t know yet, but I will. Look at
all this mad work. Cost thousands, and
there’s not a penn’orth of metal in all of it.
We’ll go to the surface and get the sample
bags, and l°t the clerk see we’re going to
sample her.”
Darby Bates was in his office, talking to
Bloom, as we entered.
"Can you give me two men for the sam-
pling, Mr. Bates?” said Billy, but looking
out of the tail of his eye at Bloom. I
looked at Bloom also, and saw that he was
surprised.
“Certn’y—certn’y, Mr. Pagan. You’se
got sample bags?”
“Yes. We Avant nothing but the men.”
Come along o’ me.”
As we followed him from the office a
telegraph boy dismounted from his rain-
weary horse and handed Billy a telegram.
Billy read it, and said :
“Nothing in it! All’s well at home.”
Then he put it in his pocket, and we
walked towards the tunnel again. As we
marched in single file, Billy said to me in a
low tone: —
“When we get to the tunnel look round
and see if Bloom has called the telegraph
messenger.”
At the tunnel mouth I faced about care-
lessly, and saw Bloom give a letter to the
messenger.
We brought to the surface the bags that
held the results of the farcical sampling,
and Billy sealed them all in two larger bags.
Bloom looked on at the very solemn opera-
tion of sealing, and I could see that he was
divided between surprise and hope, with no
sLrong dependence on either.
In the office that night Darby Bates fin-
ished the dictation of his report; it was
copied in the letter book by Bloom, and
enveloped with the same portentous solem-
nity that all the players in the game were
using—as if in emulation of Darby Bates,
the only unconsciously solemn and dignified
potentate of us all.
“Does the postman come to collect the
letters, Mr. Bloom?” asked Billy of the
clerk, who was now stamping the letters. The
clerk started, and inadvertently tore a stamp
in two, but gummed the pieces on the en-
velope as he replied :
“No; I take them to the post office my-
self. It’s exercise for me, and a change to
go to the township once a week, you know.”
“I see. But you’d get a better ride if the
distance were longer. Eight miles isn’t
much of a ride.”
“I don’t ride. I walk. I prefer it.”
Darby laughed coarsely. “He can’t ride,
Mr. Pagan—he’s afraid of a horse.”
* * * *
“She’s rainin’ worse’n ever to-day,” said
Darby Bates next morning, as we prepared
to mount. “S’pose you won’t wait till it
lifts?”
“No, thanks. We can’t. The train goes
out at 12, and picks up the Melbourne
steamer to-night.”
“All right! All right! Will you take
the letters down to the post orfus for us?”
“Doesn’t Mr. Bloom take them?”
“He can’t t’day. He’s laid uo.” A fit
of coughing shook the man in the next
room.
“Hear him,” continued Darby. “It’s a
graveyarder, isn’t it? He wanted to get up,
but I told him not to. He’ll be all right
to-morrow.”
“I’ll go and see him,” said Billy gravely,
and when he had disappeared into the room
beyond, Darby handed me the letters, and I
put them in my pocket.
Billy reappeared at the door of Bloom’s
bedroom, saying, “Good-bye, Mr. Bloom. I’d
advise you to leave this country—the climate
doesn’t suit you.”
“I’m sorry I ever saw the cursed place,”
replied Bloom. “I’ll clear as soon as I can
move.”
His voice told of more than physical ill-
ness—(here was disappointment in it, too.
We shook hands with Darby and mounted.
The packhorses, loaded with the samples,
sagged down the track before us.
“Well, Billy?”
“Harmer’s cable that I received yesterday
afternoon said that Pudding Hills had risen
to two and three-quarters, and that he was
still selling.”
“Yes !”
“And Bloom sent a cable to the London
directors saying that Harmer’s engineer
on the mine.”
“How do you know that?”
“You can bet that was in the message hr.
gave to the telegraph boy. Then the
sampling fogged him, but he half saw
through my game last night.”
“Then lie’s in with the directors who arc
putting up the shares on rumors of ore in
the mine that doesn’t exist?”
“Yes—but on more than rumors—on
actual reports from the manager.”
“But there was nothing—absolutely no-
thing—in Darby Bates’s report. We heard
Bloom read it last night.”
“But Darby Bates’s reports don’t go to
London.”
“Bloom writes a false report every week,
‘‘Yes. He writes a glowing statement
which the directors can publish, and he de-
stroys Darby’s idiocies and posts his own
lies. Thtat’s why he —a delicate man-
walks through the rain once a week for exer-
cise. He has to post the right document
with his own hands. You have the letters,
Harry. Let me see them.”
“I handed him the letters. He took the
one addressed, “The Secretary, Pudding Hill
G. and C. Mines, Ltd., Austin Friars, Lon-
don, E.C.” and returned the rest.
“I knew it. Here is the faked report.”
“But how do you know, Billy?”
“Don’t you remember that Bloom tore the
stamp in two when he was stamping Darbv’s
letter, yesterday?”
“Yes.”
“This stamp is intact.”
“But he may have put on the good stamp
afterwards, on the same envelope?”
. “No—the broken stamp was gummed on,
right np to the outer edge of the envelope.
If he had changed the stamp after there
would be the gum mark of the old stamp to
show. This stamp is stuck on half an inch
from the edge, and there is no old gum
mark. Consequently, this is a new en-
velope. and there’s another report in it.”
“Will you open it and see?”
“Not much. We’ll post it as in honor
bound, and when the directors get it in five
weeks it will be a new sting to the defeat.
There’ll be cursing in the office when that
letter arrives.”
“The market will be collapsed by then, you
mean?”
“It will be collapsed in two days. I’m
sending a cable through for Harmer to pub-
lish. . He’ll continue the bear. In a week
Pudding Hills will be a shilling, or less.
I’ll cable it all —the substitution of the re-
ports, and all.”
“I’m sorry for Bloom. He has grit.”
“So am I. I hoDe he’s away from the
mine before Darby Bates finds out about the
reports.”
“Think there’ll be a big row?”
“When Darby Bates finds that his semi-
commas have been suppressed he’ll be madder
than a soaked hen. Let’s catch the pack-
horses and relieve them of that fine assort-
ment of road metal we took for samples.
Dump it anywhere in the bush. Oh, Mr.
Darby and his semi-commas !”
He laughed as he set the spurs to his
horse and galloped through the mud to head
off the packhorses.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINQHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields*highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from %to
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane. Q.
New Zealand Agents— Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
SWW
gdf
For
Steam, Air and Water.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
Car, it will repay you to-investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylinder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
Sole Ag
WITH FULL EQUIF
'Write for Catalogue.
Nett.
109
■
M***
mi
Write for full particulars to
ECONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks thorn with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor—Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
gd
fgd
when you see the name “Marshall”
on a Steam Engine. It’s an abso-
lute guarantee of England’s Best.
Marshall’s have always been fore-
most in improvements, and for the
past 60 years have enjoyed, 'as a re-
sult,
THE LARGEST STEAM ENGINE
TRADE IN THE WOULD.
There are cheaper Engines, certainly
—but Marshall’s don’t make them.
All their Engines are made to last.
Light and Heavy Pattern STEAM TRACTORS, OIL
TRACTORS, suitable for Ploughing or Hauling.
Vertical and Horizontal Stationary. VERTICAL
BOILERS, 2to 12 h.p. a Speciality. PORTABLES,
12 to 35 h.p., 1201 b. working pressure, with extra
large Colonial Firebox.
CASH OR LIBERAL TERMS. DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE FREE.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
l6l Clarence Street, City.
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’s
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the stomach and digestive organs generally. Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pills give quick relief, stimulate the
organs to healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system.
They are compounded of the best ,and purest ingredients and there are very
few people who would not/feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecbam’s Pills
If you have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver,
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and “fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should ever
be without a box. Many thousands have proved the worth of Beecham’s Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Are Tbe Favourite Remedy.
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in neod of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
THE BANKING HOUSE, Pitt Stmt* Sydney, H.S.W.,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. fred. McWILUAM, Manager.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont. PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place
£ for Empire, the car for great fun,
M for Machine, it’s an excellent one,
P for Popular, the reason we will explain.
I for If you write us to ascertain.
R for Regular equipment we supply,
£ for Empire, so why not buy ?
ROY W. SANDFORD, Ltd.
181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
105 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Chalmers and Empire Cars.
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Are Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running Costs.
The “UNION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
RELIABLE and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
PRICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALD.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
METALLIC Engine Packing
The only absolutely ALL METALLIC Engine Packing is manu-
factured by The United States Metallic Packing Co., Ltd., Bradford,
Yorkshire.
ENTIRELY AUTOMATIC AND STEAM SETTING.
Decreases the friction and Improves the Vacuum.
Works for years without attention or adjustment.
Quotations on application to Australian Agency :
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
: ■_ ’ s [5
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
fg
TRADk.
df
MARK
The STRONGEST and most, EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a iruar(l against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
gdf
gdf
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE'
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
f
&
m
$
#
m
m
m
m
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newall’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removable
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
Covering, etc.
1" Covering, the saving of heat
itfected over Unlagged Pipe is from
5 0 to 85% Write for Catalogues.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt St., Sydney.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Flaming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
VERETT
Voltmeters
DGCUMBE
Ammeters
REMIER
CCUMULATORS
LECTRIC
Si
Car Switch
LEVATORS.
Push Button
WARBBRTON,
FRANK!, LTD.,
307-11 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
380 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
Self-Oiling Pillow Block.
Power Transmission Appliances.
DODGE
Pulleys, Shaft Hangers, Pillow Blocks,
tSelf-Oiling Bearing's, Coupling's,
Collars, etc.,
Adjustable Ur op Hanger
will be found in service in all the best
efficient plants where the
and
e eauioment is
ue o
enenaa
■ ■
Send for full Descriptive Price
Their pleasing design, proper weight distribution and finish appeal at once to the mechanical eye.
gdf
' '£ $
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
mm
M
(PATENTED)
gdf
Used by Thirty-Six Leading
Railroad Companies in U.S.A.
i '
SPECIALLY USEFUL FOR DIRTY WATER.
EASILY AND QUICKLY OPERATED.
SELF CLEANING AND GRINDING. LONG SERVICE.
MADE IN SIZES FROM ONE TO FIVE INCHES.
Write for Particulars and Pamphlet to v ( /
i
N. GUTHRIDGE. LTD.
203 George St., Sydney
525 Colliiis St., Melbourne
