

embodiment of perfection— DEWAK S WMisrvT
The
107
Sydney,
Kent street,
—FOB— _ . . . ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
The DISCRIMINATING WORKING MAN
who would have a truly helpful loan to tide him over his present financial embarrassment, is assured of the lowest interest in
Australia, and the easiest of the easy terms when he seeks our aid. Our reputation for straightforward, above-board tran-
sactions to large and small borrowers is known everywhere. We lend from £5 upon Furniture (without removal), Jewellery,
Deeds of Land, Interests under Wills, etc., promptly.
N.S.W.
DE PIETE D. 8 I. Co. Limit!
Head Of
Office: 74 Castlereagh Street 74, Sydney
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W T .A.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
A
KJ
Doctors Recommend
GILBEY S DRY GIN
'i —**—
jjadley’s Orient jjotel,
PIONEE'O
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantkrd
</. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
à
Takes it back,
1 must have—
HUTTON’S
fW Apple Brand I
á
J
1
RESISTING
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
irramasa
J'u
â
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
With PALMER cord tyres
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICAIION.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
DRINK
R BEER
-
mm
i
m
~amk
MALTHOID ROOFING.
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
The finest roofing for afl-round purposes, whether on cottage, mansion,
or warehouse, will be found to be MALTHOID.
MALTHOID is a pliable, ready roofing, that is easy to handle and lay,
while it is also absolutely rain and storm proof, under the severest
conditions.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALTJS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
Roofed with White Malthoid.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L-?
ã
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T? -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
-
The great popularity of the “Moffat-Virtue” Sheep Shear-
ing Machine proves that pastoralists and shearers appreciate
its many excellent qualities.
As an example of strength aiul durability, of fine cutting
qualities and economical upkeep, you cannot improve on the
"Moffat-Virtue.”
Also, all engines' pumps, irrigation nnd water-supply
plants.
jMaWirtue£w
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET
(Opp. Lands Office), SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA
Please choose your st SPA ” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
PhllUp St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
Vo). 33.—N0. 1708.]
[Thursday, November 7, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOM
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD.,
238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(•SdSdii'jUdj.'od ui uoions »j,v
Keeter, V.: The Just and the Unjust, 3/6. (3d.)
Bryce: The Laws of Life and Health, 3/- (3d.)
Smith, B. H.: The Complete Yachtsman, 18/- (6d.)
Woodbury: Beauty Culture, 6/- (3d.)
Percival: Chats on Old Jewellery and Trinkets,
6/- (3d.) .
Shaw, B.: Select Passages from, 6/- (3d.)
Dwjct, J. F.: The White Waterfall, 3/6. (Sd.)
Lilley: Twenty-four Years of Cricket, 9/- (4d.)
lnghs: Sport and Pastime in Australia, 9/- (4d.)
Jones: Photography of To-day, 6/- (Sd.)
Hutchinson’s Popular Botany, Vol. I, beautifully illus-
trated, 9/- (6d.)
Dickens, C„ Life of, by Helm, 3/- (3d.)
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s. Poems, New Edition, including several never before printed, 3,
(3d.)
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s
Eumenthol Tooth Powder should be
used for the Preservation of the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and
Antiseptic virtues that have made Eumen-
thol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically,
owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the
Teeth so wonderfully, and wards off decay
as no other preparation for the Teeth
can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in tins, price 1/6,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HU DSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD. r
1] 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
• aaaMOd am asn ox
-x
AG
U.
The Red Page
Out-Back Verses by
Charles Henry Souter
.His German dialect verses will be read
with delight—by Germans; but it is in his
“On the Land” section that he makes his
claim to recognition as an Australian poet.
Sold Up,” “Pum’kin Time,” and the
samples quoted above show his individual
contribution to our verse; and in future
anthologies there will always be room for
one _ or more of these graphic bits of Aus-
tralian character-drawing. He is doing
here what no other of our minors can do so
well.
— +
The “colonial” edition of G. Herbert
Gibson’s Iroribark Splinters, at half a
crown, has been sold out, but a few of the
English edition (5s.) are still locally avail-
able.
Mary Grant Bruce’s latest story, Glen
Eyre (Ward, Lock, per JDymock, Sydney),
comes in ample time to solve the question
of a Christmas present for the Australian
kiddie.
MUMMER'S SICK.
’Ave yer fed them ’orses, Percy?
Martha! Jus ’ go in ter Mum.
{Now th'en, Stan; don’t cry, my sonny!
Pupper’s goin' ter give yer some.)
Perce! You go an’ put the saddle
On the yaller mare; be . quick!
Ride across to Andy Hogan’s;
Tell yer Auntie, Mummer’s sick.
Leave the panel down. ’Ere, Stanley!
Let the dawg alone, my son!
Gome along and play with Pupper,
An’ ’e’ll let yer see ’is gun.
Is the kettle boilin’, Martha?
Take yer Mummer in some tea,
Then you go an’ get yer supper,
No, yer needn’t wait for me.
Pupper put his boy to bye-bye?
Daddy undress little Stan?
See if we can get ’is boots off!
That’s ’is Daddy’s little man!
Lay down, Patch ! ( I’m cornin’, Mummer !)
Martha, fetch a bit more wood.
(All right, Mummer!) Good night,
Stanley!
Go to bye-bye, and be good.
’Eres a bit o’ somethin’, Mummer!
There now 1 Let me raise yer ’ead !
W’at ioas it the doctor told me?
i W’y, ’e said —’e said —’e said—!
Oh, my Gawd! ’e couldn’t meant it!
' Bess! you ain’t a-going ter dieV
.Bess, my darlin’.... A ll right, Stannie!
. Pupper’s cornin’! Don’t you cry.
SMITH'S EMILY.
**lr was gallopin’ into town,
, *dr° m Simpson’s place out back o’ the hill,
1 'jj'fet Smith’s Emily drivin’ down
-yor bran an’ pollard from Thompson’s
t y ■ i mill.
ddgy,” says Emily. “Day,” says 1,
a / <r n ’ P'alls me nag up into a tvallc.
iji’ ’ow’s the folks at the Errenbri?”
(She ain’t a gal as is give to talk.)
) Oh, Emily, Emily Smith!
I A lot I cares for yer kin or kith ;
J But there in yer cart
f You’ve got ’ old of me ’eart,
' An’ l longs ter kiss yer, Emily Smith!
She looks me up an’ looks me down,
An’, “Middlin’, thanks,” she says with a
smile.
’Er eyes are tender an’ bright an’ brown,
An’ keeps a-mockin’ yer all the while.
She plucks a spray from a passin’ bush,
An’ starts to chew the tip of a twig,
An’ says: “I reckon I’ll make a push”;
(’Er mouth screwed up an’ ’er eyes all
big.)
Oh, Emily, Emily Smith!
It’s ’ard to say w’at yer does it with;
But, right way or wrong,
Yer can pull me along,
An’ I thinks yer knows it, Emily Smith!
I says: “Oh, w’at’s yer ’urry!” says. I;
Then: “Don’t yer know as I love yer sof”
Yes, just like that, an’ I don’t know why —
But she only laughs, an’ say, “Yes, I
know !”
Then, “Will yer marry me, Em?” I says ;
(The cart teas stopped, an’ I ’eld ’er
’and).
“I’ll love yer true to my dyin ’ days.”
She only says: “Ain’t the sunset grand!”
Oh, Emily, Emily Smith!
If life’s a muddle, and love a myth,
It’s nothing to me
W’at the answer may be,
For you’re all I cares for, Emily Smith!
From “Irish Lords, and Other Verses”
(The Boolifellow, Sydney).
Charles Henry Sou ter, of South Aus-
tralia, hitches his Pegasus up to the Com-
monwealth homestead fence and strolls in-
side. He is welcome. In the exquisitely
produced little volume of his verses—the
title page is dignified and delightful, and the
type on the slightly sunburnt paper gives
his verse a decorative charm—there is
poetry, not of the highest quality, indeed,
but from the heart. Irish Lords, and Other
Verses (The, Bookfellow, Sydney) intro-
duces a delightful personality, an artist who
can say simple things simply, touched, too,
with the humor that is near to tears. His
chanteys have the right rollicking note:—•
Eh! W’at-cheer, Polly, with the eyes so
hlue!
(An’ a Hai-ya! we're shovin’ 'er along!)
Here's Jack a-swearin’ 'e'U he always true!
{Halleyeh! come pull 'er over!)
Just kiss him cheerily, and say good-bye,
He's a wife and family in Peckham Rye,
But he’ll soon be back again, so don’t you
cry!
(With his Hai-ya! Johnnie is a rover!)
Marriage
The novel of the future, proclaimed H. G.
Wells recently, was going to discuss con-
duct, analyse conduct, suggest conduct. And
the latest Wells novel, Marriage (Macmil-
lan), is already the third of these novels of
the future. In Ann Veronica and The New
Machiavelli Wells discussed conduct; in
Marriage he is discussing married conduct.
There is little plot, and hero and heroine
are conventionally married, and neither looks
for, nor finds, an affinity outside the marriage
bond. The story is merely that of Marjorie,
who drifts into an engagement with one
man and falls in love with, and marries,
another, Children arrive, the husband makes
money, and both partners grow dissatisfied
with life. A way out is found in a winter
spent in Labrador; and they return to their
children with new resolves that point to the
making of something noble of that unsatis-
factory business called marriage.
Into this book Wells puts everything
about which lie is interested —which means
everything that the modern reader will be
interested in. For Wells has the sanest brain,
possibly, in the writing world. It is the
brain of a disinterested scientist, righteously
annoyed by the prevalent muddle of things,
and enthusiastically intent on indicating the
steps that might be taken to clear up the
mess. He considers, for instance, that the
present stage of human evolution is hardly
beyond that of the cave man. Everything is
yet to do for the race; the paramount need
is not action nor “movements”-—for which he
has a zealous scorn—but clear thinking. And
in Marjorie he shows us the result of the
present muddle in education and at the
same time paints probably his most convinc-
ing portrait of the modern woman. She, at
least, has not stepped out of a book, as even
Maurice Hewlett’s ladies have a habit of
doing: she has stepped out of life.
Here is Marjorie as a girl
At school she had been taught what I may
best describe as Muffled Christianity—-a tem-
perate and discreet system designed pri-
marily not to irritate parents.... She was
growing up like the great majority of res-
pectable English people, with her religious
faculty, as it were, artificially faded....
Indeed she did not live in a world of right
and wrong, or anything so stern; “horrid”
and “jolly” had replaced these archaic
orientations.
Wells can be deliberately dull; and Mar-
riage begins with an analysis of Marjorie’s
people that is not worth the space. But in
indicating how she became engaged to the
impossible Magnet Wells explains how so
many girls do get engaged to the wrong
men. They simply have not had the educa-
tion that would enable them to know the
right man ; and they are forced to compro-
mise with the nearest and most pertinacious
male. But Trafford, a scientific investiga-
tor, drops into Marjorie’s life from an aero-
plane—his first and last ascent —and the
fate of Magnet is settled. They make a
runaway marriage, “and the Poor Hears
haven’t a shadow of doubt they will live
happily ever afterwards.” But life is not
a fairy tale. For Trafford finds that
Marjorie needs money—she has more than
the usual girl’s dislike of paying bills —and
scientific research does not make a man
wealthy enough for an extravagant wife. So
he has to choose between science and the
wife. And by this time the honeymoon was
over;—•
And now, indeed, the Traffords were com-
ing to the most difficult and fatal phase of
marriage... .Now, as far as sex was con-
cerned, there might be much joy and delight
still, but no more wonder, no fresh discov-
eries of incredible new worlds and unsus-
pected stars. Love, which had been a new
garden, an unknown land, a sunlit sea to
launch upon, was now a rich treasure-house
of memories. And memories, although they
afford a perpetually increasing enrichment
to emotion, are not sufficient in themselves
for the daily needs of life. For this, indeed,
is the truth of passionate love, that it
works out its purpose and comes to an end.
A day arrives in every marriage when the
lovers must face each other, disillusioned,
stripped of the last shred of excitement—
undisguisedly themselves.
Trafford has, as a matter of fact, discov-
ered how to make cheap synthesised rubber.
To him comes a rich Hebrew promoter:—
“I don’t believe that the majority of
people who make money help civilisation
forward any more than the smoke that comes
out of the engine helps the train forward.
They’re about as much help as—fat.
They accumulate because things happen to
be arranged so.. v .lf you’ve got big gifts
and you chose to help forward the world, if
you chose to give away everything you can
do in the way of work, you’ve got to give up
the ideas of wealth and security, and that
means fine women and children. You’ve got
to be a deprived sort of man. ‘All right/
you say. ‘That’s me!’ But how about
your wife being a deprived sort of woman?’
That s where it gets you ! And, meanwhile,
you know, while you make your sacrifices
and do your researches, there’ll be little,
mean, sharp, active beasts making money all
over you like maggots on a cheese. And if
everybody who’d got gifts and altruistic
ideas gave themselves up to it, then evi-
dently only the mean and greedy lot would
breed and have the glory. They’d get every-
thing. There wouldn’t be an option they
didn’t hold....It isn’t worth it....It’s like
building a temple for flies to buzz in.”
And Trafford sees reason. He joins the
Hebrew syndicate, and reaps his reward in
a fortune. But, having achieved, what is
there left for him to do? His wife is given
up to society; he has lost his . interest in
research; games or hobbies do not attract
him:—*
The serious and responsible life of an
ordinary prosperous man fulfilling the re-
quirements of our social organisation fatigues
and neither completely satisfies nor com-
pletely occupies. _ Still less does the respon-
sible part of the life of a woman of the pros-
perous classes engage all her energies or hold
her imagination. And there has grown up a
great informal organisation of employments,
games, ceremonies, social routines, travel, to
consume these surplus powers and excessive
ci’avings, which might othei’wise change or
shatter the whole order of human living. He
began to understand the foxced preoccupation
with cricket and golf, and so forth, to which
the young people of the economically free
classes in the community ai'e trained.... He
began to undei-stand something of the psy-
chology of vice, to comprehend how small a
part mere sensuality, how large a part the
spirit of adventure and the craving for ille-
gality, may play, in the lives of those who are
called evil livers....
Surely never before in the history of the
world has there been so great a multitude of
secure-feeding, satisfied-looking, uninquiring
people as there is to-day. All the tragic
great things of life seem stupendously remote
from them; pain is rare, death is out of
sight, religion has shrunken to an inconsider-
able, comfortable, reassuring appendage of
the daily life. Never before has the world
seen such multitudes, and a day must come
when it will cease to see them for ever-
more.... He wondered if the King ever lay
awake at three o’clock in the morning and
faced the riddle of the eternities, or whether
he did really take himself seriously and con-
tentedly as being in himself the vital func-
tion of the State, perfoi'med his ceremonies,
went hither and thither through a wilder-
ness of gaping watchers, slept well on it.
Was the man satisfied? Was he satisfied
with his empire as it was and himself as he
was, or did some vision, some high, ironical
intimation of the latent and lost possibilities
of his empire and of the world of Things
Conceivable that lies beyond the poor tawdry
splendors of our present loyalties, ever dawn
on him?
He resolves that it is necessary for him to
get away somewhere and think. His mother
persuades him to take his wife—now the
mother of a family—with him; for, if the
race is to progress, the male must take the
female along the track he means to tread.
Mai-jorie leaves her children in safe hands
and follows her man. The winter spent in
Labrador is vividly described, and the hard-
ships of that sojourn, the new aspects of
their humanity that this strenuous life
brings to the surface, re-make these two
souls over; and they return to study human-
ity, to examine and discuss and criticise the
basis of human life, the first necessary step
to the endowment of life with a finer mean-
ing. And Wells nicely indicates that the
woman will not succeed as the man will
succeed in living up to their new ideals.
For the moral is that woman is greedy—
greedy of the good things of life, greedy of
the man’s love and attention. She must
become the squaw. And in marriage she
must demand less of the man: she has no
right to compel him to give up his chosen
work to make money for her to spend, even
if, like Marjorie, “a born snatcher and
shopper,” she spends it on beautiful things.
Marriage is a great book. Women will
doubtless find it occasionally a dull book.
But it is a, courageous book, and the brain
of H. G. Wells is here seen at its ripest.
And there is no other man in English litera-
ture whose thought is better worth knowing.
In the preface to his verses, Under the
Open Shy (B, J. Clarey, Sydney), Harley
Matthews asks us that we “forget the teach-
ings of all school-day pedants when reading
in this book; that, for example, we pro-
nounce the word ‘wind’ as we would speak
it.” Certainly. And in his dedication “To
all Good Australians,” he further asks: —
My land, will you not hear me in this hush,
This songless hush that now is on the
world?
Somehow, we think not. Harley Matthews
has browsed on Shelley, and here he echoes
his master faintly, very faintly. There are
no faults to be found in his metre, there are
no excellencies to be praised in his verse;
he rambles on, vaguely, prettily, telling at
length the thin, conventional thoughts that
come to youth, with much about bees and
birds and the death of innocent maidens.
Only in “The Breaking of the Drought,”
published in The Bulletin —the rest of his
verses blossom here for the first time —does
he touch reality, and then but diffidently.
Fritz Nietzsche
Fritz, not Friedrich, you notice. For The
Young Nietzsche, by his sister, Fran
Forster-Neitzsche (Heinemann, per Svdntv
Book Club), deals solely with J the
youth of the great philosopher, from the
view-point of the woman to whom this
genius was always her brother Fritz. The
world knows the older, solitary Nietzsche-
Ufe' 6111 We See the firSt tappy years °f his
“Maybe this life-history is important
chiefly in this respect, that it presents us
with one great problem. For it is a pro-
blem that Friedrich Nietzsche, who denied
our present moral values, or at least traced
them to sources absolutely unsuspected
hitherto —this Transvaluer of all Values—
should himself have fulfilled all the loftiest
and most subtle demands made by the
morality now preached among us. And he
did not do this because of any moral im-
perative, but from a perfectly cheerful in-
ability to act otherwise.”
Fritz’s mother, a bride at 17, was de-
scribed as ‘‘a gorgeous savage,” a tomboy
and a beauty. His father was a gifted
pastor, with an extraordinary talent for
music. Fritz was the eldest child—a re-
served, _ decorous, pious schoolboy, “extra-
ordinarily good.” His sister is unable to
recall any mad pranks or misbehavior. A
brilliant scholar, he was early marked out
for advancement. On the whole, his school
and student life shows him to us as rather
a prig. From the first, he took him-
self with extraordinary German seriousness.
“Throughout his life lie never once fell into
the clutches of a grand passion or of a vul-
gar love. His whole heart was absorbed
by the world of knowledge, and for this
reason everything else only aroused temper-
ate feelings. Later in life, he was really
sorry never to be able to reach the heights
of a regular amour-passion.'’ At the Uni-
versity of Bonn he resigned from the Stu-
dents’ Association on the Wowseristic
ground that in that company there was too
much “beer-materialism.” And he deter-
mined to devote his life to that chaste
science, Philology.
Though debarred by his shortsightedness
from serving his time in the army, he had
repeatedly applied for military service. But
at the age of 23 he was accepted and joined
the horse artillery, where his duties were
arduous and uninteresting. As the result
of an accident during drill he was incapaci-
tated, after completing only five months of
his service, but he was credited with a year’s
service, and his illness, giving him six
months of perfect liberty from his univer-
sity lectures or his horse drill, enabled him
to work unhampered at his special ambi-
tions. And before his twentieth year he
had an extraordinarily diversified know-
ledge of books and an equally remarkable
wide range of information. In explanation
of his early specialisation on so dead a sub-
ject as philology, it is suggested that
Nietzsche, recognising the danger that lay
in the desire for universal culture, desired
to be master of a well-defined specialty. And
the very dryness and sterility of the subject,
the . rigor of its method and the minuteness
of its detailed studies, attracted him. But
chiefly he liked philology because it was
dead and useless; he hated all utilitarian
sciences, he distrusted questions of the day.
All this indicates the very young Nietzsche,
Fritz, rather than Friedrich.
So we find this priggish student a pro-
fessor of Classical Philology at the Univer-
sity of Bale at the age of 24. Here he made
an extraordinary reputation as a lecturer.
But the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian war
in 1870 led him, though he was now a
naturalised Swiss, to offer his services to
his country; and he was granted leave by
the university to serve, though only as an
ambulance attendant. As a member of the
Red Cross Society he was sent to the seat
of war; and it was the sight of a charge
that, as he writes, made him feel, “for the
first time,, that the strongest and highest
Will to Life does not find expression in a
miserable struggle for existence, but in a
Will to War, a Will to Power, a Will to
Overpower.” But a severe attack of dysen-
tery and diphtheria incapacitated him, and
laid the seeds of his subsequent ill-health.
Had Nietzsche a stomach that digested his
food properly there might have been an-
other Nietzsche. The same reflection applies
to his short sight, which was the cause of
his incessant headaches. The rest of the
book is a chronicle of breakdowns in health.
Chronic gastric catarrh and strain on the
optic nerve —these sum up the physical side
of the great moralist.
The author promises a companion volume,
The Lonely Nietzsche, dealing with the
better known part of his life.
♦
The latest batch of the valuable and unique
Home University Library, at Is. per copy,
includes Great Writers of America, by Pro-
fessors W. P. Trent and J. Erskine; The
Human Body, by Prof. A. Keith; The Mak-
ing of the New Testament, by Prof. B. W.
Bacon; The Making of the Earth, by Prof.
J. W. Gregory (author of The Dead Heart of
Australia), Master Mariners, and works on
Political Economy, Missions, Ethics and
Electricity. Each of these works is written
by a specialist.


Ture
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for the SUMMER FASHIONS
nr
'.'.V.
ov ; :
i
726
¥H
108
9
74-0
m
2906
7523
Mi
/
Unthokl H^derns'
kmoiis Jfricalß
PATRONS who are unable to
personally inspect the Mag-
nificent Display of the
Season’s Latest Creations shown
in the Green Room at the New
Palace Emporium should consult
our Summer Fashion Book. Write
for a copy of this interesting
publication, posted free on request;
it faithfully illustrates the pre-
vailing modes and is an authorita-
tive guide to all that is new in
the World of Dress. Postage must
he added to the prices quoted on
this page. We pay trainage or ship-
ping freight on Parcels of Family
Drapery of the value of £2 10s.
Dainty
Blouses
1174
m
32
550
r\w
AGS
1147
3503
at Anthony Horderns'
Famous Low Prices
No. 6726T. — 80y’s Tunic, in Navy Sicilian, rounded collar, and side front closing; suitable
for boys from 2 to 5 years. Size, 18in., 9/6; 20in., 9/11; 22in., 10/6
No. 743. Maid’s Costume, Tussore Silk; a dainty kilting round basque sleeves, and the two-
piece skirt; suitable for girls from 15 to 18 years. Skirt length, 3 4 in., 18/6; 3 0in ., 18/11
No. 2916 D. Maid’s One-piece Costume, White Linen, collar and cuffs of Blue Linen,
skirt panelled, and finished two 2in. tucks —
Skirt length, 32in„ 14/11; 34in„ 15/6; 3fiin., 15/11
No. 6108 P . —Girl’s American Coat, in Cream Sicilian, square at neck, richly trimmed
Military and Russian Braid; suitable for girls from 2 to 8 years—
. Size 18in„ 11/6; 20in„ 12/-; 22in„ 12/6; 24in„ 13/.; 26in„ 13/6
No. 2906 D. Child’s American Tunic, Tussore Silk, daintily finished with Blue Silk
Pipings ; suitable for child from 2 to 6 years—
Size 20in„ 6/11; 22in., .7/6; 24in., 7/11
No. 7523 F . —Child’s Costumette, White Swiss Muslin, loose from voke, trimmed Swiss
Embroidered Insertion; suitable for child from 2 to 4 years —Size 18in., 6/11; 20in., 7/6
am
re*
&
5027
1551
ANTHONY HOI
'5015
o—l
a/ ANTHONY HORDERNS
.f’crmous
No.
No.
No,
1351. Coat and Skirt Costume, of good-quality Sicilian. Coat is unlined, revers
trimmed Black Kussia Braid; well-cut Skirt in Grey, Black and Navy. S.W., W., and
O.s 29/6. Hat 16/6
621. Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume Goat is of White Lace Allover, finished
Guipure edging; Skirt is of plain White Linen in two-piece'effect. S.W., W., and O.S. 47/6
Hat ;■ 17/ 6
5013. Coat and Skirt Costume, Of White Linen—Coat lias high waist, sailor collar,
revers and cuffs of White Uuiuure Lace, finished Self buttons, panel Skirt finished buttons to
match. S.W., W„ O.S 29/6. Hat 14/6
5027. Robe Costume, of fine White Linen, has yoke and cufls of White Guipure and
large Self buttons. S.W., W., O.S 32/6. Hat 21/-
No. 3252 Cream Japanese Silk Blouse, i-inch tucks to bust only, embroidered Silk-
front, fasten at back 5/6
No. 1174. Cream Japanese Silk Blouse, yoke of Valenciennes insertion edged with
_ m
No. 1147. Cream Japanese Silk Blouse, embroidered front and finely-pleated frill at
side, fasten at back
9/11
EMM
■
5 am
feats
A
M
a
\ .Ll .. Lh l
51
WJLJJ
B ....
L 3
415
'XiJAI
(fear_
jm
2232
'j/{nfhopy
762. Coat and Skirt Costume, of fine Natural Tussore Solk; Coat has high waist
effect and crossover pointed fastenings, square collar and revers of Cream Guipure and Silk
Military Braid to match; new two-piece Skirt has pointed effect to correspond with coat.
S.W., W., and Outsizes 40/6. Hat 42/-
No. 415—Coat and Skirt Costume, of extra-quality Natural Tussore Silk ; Coat has spade
collar effect at back, collar and revers outlined Black and White Satin piping, finished Tussore
Silk Braiding; new style Panel Skirt. S.W., W., and Outsizes 67/6. Hat-- 63/-
92. Tussore Silk Robe Costume, made with new front fastening, smartly cut and
finished Crochet Silk buttons and Russia Braid loops from neck to hem. S.W., W., and Out-
sizes 29/6. Hat 24/6
No. 2232. Stylish Robe Costume, Of Natural Tussore Silk ; Bodice has new coat and
basque effect, and two-piece Skirt finished Self Russia Braiding, Black Satin buttons, pipings
and belt. S.W., W., and Outsizes 40/6. Hat 21/-
No.
No.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


w.
XMAS
1912
Annual
The twenty-second issue of PEARS’ ANNUAL is the
expression, as always before, of the very highest modern
attainments in light literature and pictorial art.
Six eminent living writers, touching the imagination in
vivid and varied styles, contribute new stories in their
best manner.
Their names guarantee their work:
SIR H. RIDER HAGGARD, MRS. FLORA A. STEEL,
SIR A. QUILLER GOUGH, FERGUS HUME, and
GEORGE R. SIMS, ROBERT BARR.
Artists of similar distinction interpret the stories in a
series of delightful illustrations :
FRANK DADD, R.I. CHARLES PEARS,
R. CATON WOODVILLE, WILL OWEN and
CYRUS CUNEO, R.C.I.
|logr Two humcrous full pages in colours,
facsimile of the original drawing by W. Weeks.
=Three exquisite=
Presentation Plates
in large size for framing.
1. Happy as a King, 2. A Rustic Beauty,
W. COLLINS. R.A. W. AFFLECK.
3. Dined, not wisely, but too well,
J. SHAW CROMPTON, R.I.
reproducing with fidelity the full range of colours of the
originals, and fit for the walls of the most refined homes.
The whole in a beautifully coloured and illustrated cover.
Sold by all Booksellers. Agents for Australasia : GORDON & GOTCH.
p
Mi*
HI
V r
•’ft
ss
m:
\
¥.
m
U
S!
Brain-fag
When the delicate mechanism o£ your
brain is disorganised by worry and over-
work, so that you; are incapable ofr-con-
ceutrated thought,-, “Wincarnis” Vill
speedily revitalise yhur poor, over-strained
nerves, and give you a delicious feeling
of renewed mental energy that will enable
you to think quickly—plan effectively
—-and act promptly. No' mat can think,
with a. worn-out brain. But here is i
“Wincarnis,” ready at a moment’s notice
to stimulate your; brain, nourish your
starved nerves, arid give you back your'
old-time mental activity.
Anaemia.
The pallid complexion—the transpar-
ent skin—the lustreless eyes—tell, only
too plainly, the story,of insufficient'wood.
But “Wincarnis” will soon give a bright-
ness to the eyes,'and coax back the ! roses
to the cheeks. "And as you take your
“Wincarnis” you ‘ will find yourself, day
by day, getting -stronger—brighter—
healthier —as the grandly nourishing
qualities of “Wincarnis” create a fu'nd of
rich, j red blood and send it dancing
through your veins, to carry health,
strength and nourishment to every part
of the body.
Sleeplessness
Only those, who suffer from sleepless-
ness realise the intense misery of the in-
cessant tossing to and fro—the agonising
wait for daybreak- - and the feeling of
utter exhaustion in the morning. Sleep-
lesness is due to a disordered state of the
brain cells, therefore, although the body
may be thoroughly worn out, the brain
is in such a highly-strung condition that
sleep is impossible. A wineglassful of
“Wincarnis” taken just before retiring
will soothe that highly-strung brain, and
ensure you an uninterrupted and sweetly
refreshing night's rest.
Convalescence
In prolonged convalescence after a
severe illness, the effect of “Wincarnis”
is almost magical. From the first, and
after each succeeding wineglassful, l “Win-
carnis” imparts a delicious feeling of
renewed vitality. And day by day the
patient gets stronger and brighter, the
appetite improves, and the blush of health
returns to the cheeks. A wealth of rich, red
blood is created which circulates through-
out the body, and rebuilds the worn-out
tissues, revitalises the weakened nerves
and braces up the system so that the
whole body pulsates with renewed life.
U
The above are but four of the many cases in which “Wincarnis” is of such inestimable value as
blood-maker and a recuperative tonic. This is why so many thousands of people who at one time
from Debility, Depression, Ansemia, Sleeplessness, Brain-fag and Nervous disorders are to-day
joyment of vigorous health. Will you try just one bottle of
a nerve food, a
were suffering
in the full en-
WOCA
AN ALMOST MIRACULOUS RECOVERY.
Mr. Stott, of 8 Crosby Street, Holbeck, Leeds, wrote us that his aged grandmother was down with Chronic
Bronchitis and a Weak Heart, and so ill was she that all the relatives were summoned to the bedside. She ex-
pressed a wish for “Wincarnis,” which was immediately procured, and within half an hour of taking the first
dose of “Wincarnis” the struggle for breath ceased, and from that moment she began to mend. Five days after- t
wards she was .able to get up and sit near the fire. ' ‘ ' •
Wincarnis is sold by all Wine Merchants, Licensed Chemists and Grocers.
Australian and New Zealand Depot: FASSETT & JOHNSON, 5 and 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
COLEMAN & CO., LTD., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENG.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
* * * *
According to an official of N.S.W. Wickerworkers’
Union, imported Chow-made rattan chairs, on which
there is a dutv of 7s. 6d. each, are being sold locally
at a similar price. As even a Chow chair-vendor,
subsisting on the occasional whiff of an oil-rag, has
to show anything above the duty in order to keep
up the supply of rags, the inference is that the fur-
niture is merely , given away as discarded wrappings
of a valuable import—opium, to wit. In the circs.,
Minister Tudor might gimlet the limbs of some of
this hollow furniture just to see if they’ll bleed.
“Clif”: Officers of the Mercantile Marine on the
Australian coast have, after a .strenuous battle, man-
aged to get a very fair Arbitration award with re-
gard to wages, hours, overtime, etc. Yet holes can
be picked in it. For instance, one large coastal co.
carries five officers in each of its large vessels, three
for , watchkeeping, the others to assist in watch-
keeping. The former work the regular four hours
on and eight off, while the two juniors have to split
the 24 hours between them, as the overtime and
eight-hour day only allude to “in port” in their
agreement. Wherefore they plod along doing the 12
hours per diem, vainly wishing the five years of the
agreement were up, so that the position might be
rectified, and hoping to rise out of juniordom shortly.
Meanwhile the owners rake in the extra labor gratis
with hearty satisfaction.
Hickey, M.L.A. for Alexandria (N. S. Wales),
drew attention, the other evening, to a queer anomaly
in the Weights and Measures Act.. It is administered
by a special police department. Elaborate arrange-
ments are made for the testing and certification of all
weights and measures, and any cozening or careless
trader whose scales pull three or four ounces light is
liable to be instantly torn to pieces by wild legal
asses, or, in default, fined. On the other hand, there
is nothing to prevent a man from sell ng a 7 51b. bag
of flour (say) as a 1001 b. bag, and charging for
it proportionately. A man may not have false
weights, but he may sell false weight with all the
impunity that happens to be lying about.
The police authorities of Berlin have issued an
edict banishing horse-drawn cabs from the streets of
the city. The vehicles in question, it is said, are so
obsolete as to be unworthy of an up-to-date place
like the German capital. To each of the 60 licensed
drivers (the 60 remnants) affected by the new regu-
lation 150 thalers are to be paid by way of com-
pensation, and applications from any of them for
permission to drive motor vehicles are to be favor-
ably considered. In a short space the horse will be
as extinct as the rooster that cock-a-doodled at the
holy apostle Saltpeter.
Even on the West Coast of Africa, among the
fevers and crocodiles and occasional cannibals, among
the swamps and the ju-ju and the debbil-debhil, the
more or less educated black man reads his Bulletin.
Hence this letter which recently reached the office of
the Austral Hat Mills (Melbourne) :
“9th-7-1912.
“Prestea.
“Gentlemen.
“1 am more thin plesure to find out Your mota
Hat. Which I presume you have same in advertis-
ment in a paper called The Bulletin for many years
past I have longed of a kind. Your Reg mota Hat.
And I can see 1 enclose you herewith Sixteen Shillings
16/- being a deposit order against Same I could not
verify how far you have gorn with your business but
in Sending out my small order which prove satisfac-
tory 1 shall how 'ever be one among your eliquent
clients. My Present expection hope will give me
fully well to my bust alacrly and sphlnd cordlly your
“A. W. Noonoo,
C/o Mills,
“Prestea.
“2 only moto hat 7/6 each 1 size 6| and the other
6}. Hoping you will send a nice.”
“Mr. Ocky”: Has all Australia gone raving mad
on borrowing? 1 am absolutely full up of reading
day by day of the loans that are contemplated, or
are being negotiated by the host of governments, de-
partments, municipal councils and other public con-
cerns. Victoria’s Watt, in his Budget speech, spoke
proudly of the State’s loan indebtedness being only
£60,737,216, or £44 11s. 4d. per head, as against
£66 2s. 3d. per head for the average of Australia.
And because it is only a paltry sixty millions, the
Government feels it has plenty of excuse for making
it bigger and more staggering to the generations that
will follow. This careless craze of begging, bor-
rowing, pawning, lending; of providing miserable
sinking funds and paying interest to the far-away
Cohen ; of keeping staffs of men pottering with
figures and statistics to periodically remind the coun-
try how much it has to pay back —these things
surely are humiliating. If the money value of all
the time, ink, pens, stamps, printing, paper, light-
ing, worry, bad language, beer and other things con-
sumed or devoured in (s& y) the last five years by
Australia’s army of beggars and their assistants, were
added to the interest paid during the same period,
there would be enough, I believe, to build a do cent
navy. There might even be something over for the
railway to the Northern Territory, the development
of neglected ports, and many more serviceable things.
But the fever of cadge is rampant; it is nothing but
borrow, borrow. Even the church down the street
is up to its steeple in debt. When is it all going to
stop ?
“G.V.W.”: Whenever I hear the large, local Tory
howling against alleged confiscation by the Labor
party, and mouthing sweet nothings about the sacred
rights and liberties enjoyed in the drear old Mother-
land, 1 am reminded that he is on shocking terms
with the truth. 1 recall, per medium of authentic
history, the year 1562, in England, when good old
Privateer Enterprise proved its incompetence or
greed (probably greed) by holding down the crops
so long that the rains destroyed them. The loss of
grain was so great that Parliament had to turn to
and feed the multitude. (In those days England
mostly grew its own food.) The next job Parlia-
ment did was to pass the following law: “All persons,
of whatever degree to thresh and sell their corn
at once ; any stack found standing on the 10th July
to be confiscated.’’ Observe that no option in the
way of fine or imprisonment was offered. It was just
plain, bald, blown-in-the-glass confiscation. And the
next time I hear a loud political bookmaker calling
the odds against the animal’s performances in Eng-
land I’ll put him out of business.
AUSTRALIAN DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne has just celebrated an Australian day,
when the windows of the shops were filled with showy
goods of local manufacture. The display, from the
point of view of the Age, was “entirely satisfactory.”
Prizes were given for the most excellent window
shows.
I searched the city round, and saw
The windows piled with many things,
With hats of velvet, fur and straw,
With shirts, and cabbages and strings ;
But prowled the city o'er in vain,
So in the suburbs searched again
For what, despite big immigration,
Is still most, vital to the nation.
In shops suburban I descried
Their hams and bacon smooth and sleek,
The suit that valiantly defied
All competition. Still I seek
The tradesman who for credit bids
With windows full of fine, fat kids —
The one who .took the highest prizes
For native babes, assorted sizes !
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


Sff
*1
m i
m
f. t
08
•v-, ‘Vv .
LUDBROok’S STORE
Worithaggl,
Victoria
WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
■
■
SIR JOHN MADDEN
“ Yamala, ”
Frankston, Vic.-
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons
fwo OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMSnJAI/S.
„ 28 Hunter Street, Sydney,-
November 2§, 1911,
Dear Sirs, — .
I am writing to let you know how pleased I am with the Aerogen Gas Machine which
y©li installed at my home, “Clydesdale,” about three months ago. Everything has been
jiibgt Satisfactory, the machine proving very simple to work, and also very economical,
'i'lie light is fe'xe'ellefit, both for ordinary use in the house, and for the billiard table. I
Will be bill# too glad to personally recommend it to anyone.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) GEORGE G. KISS.
"Yarnala,” Frankston,
„ ~. January 3, 1911.
I send you herewith my cheque iOf ttie Aerogen Machine which you supplied to me, as
Per The" l'^ditTs 1 pTrfect? d and the installation the simplest possible and most convenient.
I'Ve that anyone can manage it with care and complete safety, and it has brought a very
definite far to mv house here in the complete banishment of the kerosene lamps. Our
servants are Ctmtent, and the cost seems likely to be much lessened \f a tidi’N
With many thafa-S, Very truly yours, dSgd.) JOHN MADDEN.
AERCCeH sAIFE-fV GSAS fiatri Be' USOd fed* HEATING and COOKING with best results. <SsM Be used with UPRIGHT or N ERTE
COSY—CNE-QUaHTER THAT OP ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
N 0 ENGINE IS NECESSARY, fhd AEBOQBN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds Up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL QU WRite FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROoSN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce
MELBOURNE: AEROGUN 1 6ft§ MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD.
Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
133 William Street.
Ch'as. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH: ALCOCK St Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: M‘aChln'ery Co. Ltd 1 .
ROCKHAMPTON : W. «» ®o.' Ltd-.-
TOWNSVILLE : Allred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA ; A, Barrau.
BRITISH NEW tftJINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
INLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co, Ltd.
# Ringing for More!
o —o S
■BUB
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years' success .
way > •»w/ ■•» *.■ -" '
Hsu <^«2UlZGB9ttXn
iboead)
The Royal Commission
in their final report on Tuberculosis,
recently issued, clearly showed that
the chief danger to child life resulted
from the use of infected cow's milk.
To quote one extract j “The Evi*
deuce we have accumulated goes to
demonstrate that a considerable
amount of the tuberculosis of child*
hood if to be ascribed to infectiofi
to children in meals
66'hsisfing largely Of,,the fiiilM Ox
——the 88W " v~
When the mother’s nillb hOt
available, the “Allenburys” Foods
form the best substitute, as they are
practically identical with healthy human mill
in composition, nutritive value and digestibility,
and are absolutely free from all harmful germs.
Milk Food No. I. From birth to 3 months
h&il% Food No. 2. From 3to 6 months
Malted From 6 months upwards
Tile /A lie library s’ Rrasks. A
valuable archil tion to baby’s dietary
when ten months old and after These
Rusks are socially useful during th *
troublesome time of teething. "When
eaten raw they SDMhaaweaUy aid the
cutting of teeth.
4Sllenburgs
Foods
promote sound sleep, ensure
vigorous health and develop-
ment, and represent the most
successful method of Infant
Feeding ever devised.
7jm r~ Pamphlet on “Infant Feeding and Management” sent free.
Allen $ Hanfrorys Ltd., London, Eng., and Market St., Sydney
THE LONE HANP
TH E AUS IE ALIA X MAGAZIN K.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
PUMPS
Manufactured by GWYNNES LTD- IQNDOW.
High Efficiency Centrifugal Pumps for All Purposes.
during which period they have supplied Centrifugal
• of 363 rivers as
GWYNNES LTD. have had over fifty years’ practical experience as Hydraulic Engineers, during which period mey . J
Pumping Machinery to discharge 80,000,000 gallons (equal to 363,636 cubic metres) per minute* w lie is equa >-*
large as the Thames, or 72 rivers as large as the Nile. . t| | j
Included in these Plants will he found the most important, durable, economical and successful Pumping Installations m *.l
Fig. 602.
We stock these in all sizes, from lin. to 12in.,
with either single or double standards.
I
m
/ -
I
■
«f
MOTOR-DRIVEN PRESSURE PUMP, to lift 600 gallons, against
a head of 800 feet.
This is the Type of Pomp we are supplying for the Broken Hill Water Supply.
PRICES AND QUALITY ARE RIGHT.
Send for Catalogue.
FULL, PARTICULARS FROM
HAES & EGGERS LTD.
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
GOOD, STRONG, CLOSE SHOOTERS. Guaranteed for Quality.
STEVENS
SINGLE BARREL
SHOT GUNS.
ä
- Choke bored for nitro powder.
Case-hardened frame. For any standard make of
ammunition. Made in 12, 16 and 20 gauges in standard lengths and weights.
Ask your dealer. Insist on STEVENS. Every gun tested.
Write for Catalogue and detailed information to
ARTHUR H. HILL
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86 C.P.0., ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA. [1
PURCHASE- A
BAYARD AUTOMATIC PISTOL
AND OBTAIN ABSOLUTE PROTECTION
å
ă
Can be seen at all Storekeepers,
Gunsmiths and Merchants.
wmmm.
CANNOT
DISCHARGE
IF YOU LET
IT FALL.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Descriptive Booklet, post free
m
/Take your hammock with you?
W It will give luxury from the beginning of
your travels to the end; while you recline in the
connection that you have, at last discovered
the pleasures of cycling really lie.
Of all Dealers.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/.;
Post Free, 1/2.
Mention The Bulletin o
Above prices include postage to any address.
The 12 r> Best Card'
Tricks, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, lOd.;
Brough’s Secret of Stage
Make-Up, 1/4 ; Sixteen.
Amusing Farces, 1/1;
Thirteen One-Act Farces,.
1/1; Twenty Humorous-
Dialogues, l/l ; Home
Amusements, 1/1; “How
Old Mose Counted thee
Kggs” and 116 Otli ei-
Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic
Recitations, 1/1 ; “How
Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations,
1/1; Famous Dialect Re-
citations, 1/1; 1401 Con-
undrums and Riddles,
1/1; Art of Ventrilo-
quism, l/l; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clairvoy-
ance, 1/1; Amateur Con-
juring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
(P%9
&
r. J
■:u
t ■
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
iPla y i » a
) Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
struc ti on s;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Eas. ' Card Tricks are:— (l) Wizard of the
North, am 1 (2) The Two-from-Flve, 6d. each;
posted Btl. Above tSTricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
AND A NY BOOK YOU WANT.-»d
Stamps or Pot tal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE,
201B0URKE STREET. MELBOURNE.,,
% M /
U
CROWN
£=3
•? t 1.
SL I
6/6 Watch.
'J'HE wonderful thing about the
Ingersoll Watch is not its price.
The wonderful thing is its
ACCURACY at a price so far below
what you must pay for accuracy in
any other watch. Ingersoll watches
are the timepieces of 20,000,000
people —people in every walk of life,
but people who judge a watch solely by
its timekeeping accuracy and not by
the amount of money it represents.
Have you a watch you can depend
upon ? If not, get a fully Guaran-
teed Ingersoll.
Crown 6/6, Eclipse 8/6,
Junior 10/6, Midget 10/6.
The Jewelled Trenton Watch offers the same
security and saving to the buyer in high grade
watches that the Ingersoll does in the low-priced
class. Prices from 30/- upwards.
If you cannot obtain a genuine guaranteed Inger-
soll or Trenton Watch locally, do not accept a
substitute, but write us for name of nearest dealer.
Robt. H. Ingersoll & Bro.,
73 L YORK ST., SYDNEY.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Bevei'ages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT salt ’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Connel! St.
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
The efficient disinfectant.
Izal is the pioneer of modern high-power dis-
infectants. It is a scientific discovery of vital
importance to national health. No disease germs
can live—no epidemic spread—where Izal is used.
It is death to all bacteria.
Izal costs a little, but saves a tremendous lot. Get a
gallon drum—sufficient for making 400 gallons of efficient
disinfecting fluid.
♦Sr*
is the guaranteed disinfectant
of unrivalled strength. It has
been officially adopted through-
out the British Empire.
Write for Free Booklet, “Practical
Disinfection.’ 1
Agents:
T, K. STEADIES,
37-43 Pitt St., Sydney.
Mixes equally well in salt,
brackish, or fresh water
'-JUU
li
I 2,*U
m


IS YOUR HAIRI
FALLING OUT?]
Do not worry about the threat-
ened departure of youth and
beauty. Why not ?
Because, if there is a spark of
life remaining in the roots of the
hair,
Ayer's
Hair Vigor
will arouse it into healthy activity. •
The hair will then cease to come
out, will begin to grow, will be
made soft and smooth, and all
without changing the color. Con-
sult your doctor about these hair
problems.
If you are weak and nervous, i
and your digestion all out of
order, of course you must not
expect healthy hair; the hair
suffers with the rest of the body.
Correct any constitutional weak-
ness with a constitutional medi-
cine—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER 6c CO.,
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes
-*TR b-
Pipes.
&
m
SPECIAL SILVER-
MOUNTED.
SUPERIOR TO
ALL OTHER
MAKES IN
AUSTRALIA.
Specially
Designed
for a
Cultivated
Fublics' Taste.
ALL GOOD
SMOKERS
USE THEM-
8103
—THE WORLD OVER—
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
—essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges may
always suffice
ensure good sport,
good sport is out of the
question
without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two 'Eley Loaded' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme*
A bright orange g inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Rley
(42-gr.) Smokeless.
Eley ‘Eloid’
Alight maroon Cartridge.
Loaded withEley(33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Eley Bros., Ld., London
Enjr.
m
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has ro odor dr taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
mg' antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a fe.w days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
BUST
DEVELOPING
S€CR€TS.
WE are here to tell your beautiful-faced
women that faces do not attract so
readily as does figure, and we will
gladly tell any woman who writes us the
secret of how many hostesses and actresses
develop their busts and fill out the hollows
of their cheeks.
The hollow-necked, scrawny-armed and
flat-chested woman is always at a great disad-
vantage, socially, with her full-bosomed, well-
developed associates. She who is most fully
developed always monopolises the endearments
of the opposite sex, and is a source of envy
to her ill-developed sisters.
If you are flat and hollow-chested, without
bosom, and suffer from attenuation, we will
tell you free of charge how you may develop
your figure to pleasing proportions. Thou-
sands of women in similar health have ac-
cepted and followed this advice, and are
to-day, as the result, radiant in the enjoyment
of good health, a pleasing, fully-developed
figure, and a plump, well-rounded bosom.
Attenuated women who have for years suffered
the ravages of indigestion, constipation, bili-
ousness, internal functional disorders, and
various other troubles, are numbered in this
category.
If your bust lacks development, and you
are scraggly and attenuated, we will advise
you free and gladly, as to how you may im-
prove your figure and beautify your bust.
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
SAMPLE OF
“FLESH-FOOD.”
When you look into
the mirror, and your
hollow cheeks, thin
neck and scrawny
arms mock even you,
what effect do you suppose
they have on those with whom
you mix socially?.-.-A
woman's chief charm is a well-
rounded figure and full bosom.
With these, thin arms and
hollow cheeks are a rarity.
We suggest that all ladv
readers who see this article
will do well to investigate the
truth of these assertions. Send
two penny stamps and we will
post v o u full particulars and
a PR RE SAMPLE OP TREAT-
MENT. Write to-dav. Results
guaranteed. Call if convenient.
1
%
Falliere Flesh - Food Co.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
[lBlO
I\NO
a
Let us help you.
We have made good
colours for 1 52 years, and there is no paint
requirement for which we have not a
special material that we believe best for that
purpose. In the long line of “ Berger ’
ft
Paints you will find one made especially for your
purpose —whatever it is. Ask your painter to
recommend you one of
On sale throughout the Commonueaffh.
For name of focal agent send a post card to
wp Lewis Berger & Sons (Australia) Ltd.,
18 YOUNG STREET SYDNEY
m
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Ur. H. Smith , of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “ I was a hard smoker for SO
years, but since talcinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3.
TEH DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
a
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to you*
Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncturfe-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
Ilatest
MODELS
£3m 1G to £ 9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. Writ©
at once, using sufficient postage*
for Free Art Catalogue and our
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dent. 280, LIVERPOOL*
AGENT for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO., <•
349 Collina-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Rowland's
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies. Restores it. Closed
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect of
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children's Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND’S,
67, Hatton Garden. London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
THE Australian Magazine—THE EOIs
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, Gil.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Deya.
I lie on a large damp rock,
With the world and the village below;
And above, from the peaks,
Fall silvery streaks
From a field of eternal snow.
Below and beyond is the sea,
And a grey old tower that mows
At its dimpling smiles
That were wont, old whiles,
To herald the pirate prows.
Behind are the beetling crags
That frown on the bush-clad steeps,
And the clefts, deep-cut,
From the daylight shut .
Where the shadow of midnight sleeps.
Ripe olives, all purple-black,
Fall pattering here from the tree,
As the soft breeze moves
Through the ghostly groves,
With a sound like the distant sea.
Below, on its sentinel hill,
A church of an ancient day
Holds high its head
In the camp of the dead,
And watches the living way.
In yonder cove are the huts
Where hardy men abide,
Who rack the bay
By night and day
For fish, and for much beside.
Up, back, for a thousand feet
Are the rock-built homes that cling
To the tottering edge
Of a terraced ledge
As the swallows build in the spring.
’Tis festa day to-day
Of who knows what old saint,
And the villagers go
Aye, to and fro, .
To the sound of the church bell s plaint.
By night and day they have gone,
. And the bell is tinkling still,
And its note, far blown,
Makes one with the tone
Of the sheep bells here on the hill
Just so is the soughing voice
Of the mountain torrent swift,
Blent in with the rave
Of the rock-pent wave
As it breaks in a caverned rift.
But the sun beats warmly down
On my large, damp, somnolent rock;
And the world below
Is a spirit show,
That the clouds and the mountains
mock;
And I but a speck—a fly,
A spot of moss on the stone.
It is well for such
To abide the touch
Of the Vast: and to be alone.
palma.
WAIF.
The Blasphemy of Meroz.
The curse of Meroz must rest upon all who do not
come to help in the fight against the throne of the
drink iniquity.— Rev. Thomas Davies . his swear.
The curse of Meroz falls like dew
Upon a thirsty land,
Where Wowsers range afar to view
Our soul-girths that expand;
And speak dark sayings very few
Can hope to understand.
The curse of Meroz sparkles bright
In shallow glasses wide,
Where sons of plenty sit at night
With beauty at their side —
Oh, costly is the young delight
Its golden capsules hide !
The curse of Meroz softly dwells
In ruby liquid clear,
Where love its new-found rapture tells
In some pink, listening ear,
And eyes grow soft as mountain wells
When some white god is near.
The curse of Meroz swells and grows
In private bars and fair,
Where some clear spirit gently flows
Morn’s ravage to repair,
And Hebe of the glasses glows
Amid her borrowed hair.
The curse of Meroz faints away
Upon the midnight deep,
Where oysters and the rosy cray
Have heard the black stout weep,
Till lonely wheels, at dawning grey,
Pursue suburban sleep.
The curse of Meroz wakes again
When light is in the sky,
In noble thirst that longs to drain
The vats of Bacchus dry—
A splendid curse that maketh vain
The Wowser’s awful cry.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
A Cautious Pessimist.
I met McCann the other day.
A very solemn man was he.
He sadly tracked me up to say.
That want and woe .had come his way,
And he would finish in the sea.
He hated life. The end was nigh,
And someone had informed him that
By far the easiest death to die
Was drowning. Here he asked could I
Oblige a fellow with a sprat.
He felt a man was better dead;
Existence now was foul and grim.
He shed a tear-drop from his head,
And heaved a racking sigh, and said
I needn’t put on crape for him.
Nothing in life or death he feared.
Here smartly from the pave he ran.
I at his superstition jeered.
“To go beneath a ladder reared
Is dashed unlucky!” said McCa^~
VICTORIA.
S.S.


BeaOtiftil BLOUSES
m
tea it
K
Inexpensive
but
Exquisite
Models.
B
W 10X7.
Muslin Blouse, White, dainty embroidery
front, in various patterns, square neck of
embroidery insertion 4/9
Cool, neat, and comfortable.
T , W 1047.
Lovely Design in Ivory Jap. Silk, volte
and sleeves of Ivory Guipure, lace cut in
newest style. Front of blouse neatly
tucked, plain panel in centre relieved
with buttons. Low, square neck, of
Guipure insertion 25 / 9
We Pay Carriage on all Drapery Orders to any Address in the Commonwealth.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
“The Firm That Satisfies,”
Central Square, Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POURRI
For Pipe Smokers—POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Blend of Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
1 ostage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers—POT POURRI CIGARETTES
en «A. i //: i „ .
TURKISH
VIRGINIA
-50 for 4/6, postage 4d. extra; 100 for 9/=, postage 6d. extra.
-100 for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/=, postage 1/6 extra.
Send far my Illustrated Catalogue, post free
A A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
818
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
... BYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
A <4 RE AT HUSICAL INNOVATION.
PS% interchancwbie
[SjO parts
(Rand
“■ ALBERT’S. SYSTEM
h *nd FI LEd
seeds
Two more (new), “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom=
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New),; the “Miniature
Grand” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
tnnoliW eBC h t ? r ' 0 » *? PeS ) P °* SSe !l great superiority of the “Booiperang”' Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided; with extra reeds thev at
once laise their bewitching harmony abpve. the best reed-combination. The sweetness and body
9* resonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND” can only be. equalled by the tunefid
p?^ lna w° n # the Harp and Flute. Try one, and; the ‘-‘BOOMFRANG GRAND” wil/become your
ipseparable companion. Try the 6/6 one for. preference.. ' uecoiue your
Wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 King Street, Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.)
is
£
Lr:TKH:
8
‘‘‘The World-wide Whiskey.”
BURKE'S
★ ★★ IRISH
WHISKEY
Distinguished by its Delicacy of Flavour.
Lightness and Digestibility,
Exquisitely Mellow.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd
DUBLIN.
Capital £1,100,000. Estd. 1849
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America
skatoql the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
T»if S h '} ve heid aH World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks. ' e ’
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chdoago, U.S.A.
Ball-
•RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
<9
4
mm
u
V
n
film
r^v
\ $
fcj
<d>
£©/&
s Wv3
,cX cCI
ZJz£M>
ire
\V \ Ytk
vs.
BETTER
HOSE.
“Watershed” Red Rubber Garden Hose is
the best on the market, giving unusually long
service, and resisting sunburn, perish, kink-
ing, splitting and bursting.
“Watershed” Red Rubber Garden Hose is
made in 60ft. coils, and is sold at the fol-
lowing rates: —
|in. x 3 ply B*6 d.. per ft.
fin. x 3 ply lid. per ft.
lin. x 3 ply 1/4 p er f(-_
Call and let us measure you a length of this
superior Hose to-day. If you live in the
country you should post your order, remit-
ting sufficient to cover cost of freight.
illustrated Price List and Samples Free, on
request.
ą
RUBBER CO.
LTD.,
" The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; and at MELBOURNE.
ǻ
Here comes the Thirsty Weather!
Order in a Sparklet Syphon now, and all through the
hot summer days you will have refreshing, sparkling
drinks always within reach. Delicious aerated water
made in a moment, at home or anywhere—pure, fresh
and ready instantly. It is worth while to be hot when
you own a Sparklet Syphon !
O 0
” Syphon - 6/6
** Bulbs - - 2/3 dozen
“B ” Syphon - 4 -
“B 99 Bulbs - - 1/0 dozen
Your Storekeeper stocks them.
Soda-Fountain on a Tea-tray'.**


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vor.. 33.—N0. 1708.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7. 1912.
Paten (So.
WHEN THE BOTTLE COMES HOME EMPTY.
N.S Wales Government's attempt to borrow £3,000,000 in Paris has failed. And a subsequent attempt to borrow £1,500,000 from
J. Bull-Cohen has been only a partial success. Men who have lately been employed on loan works are therefore being cacked, and
labor Ministers are beginning to have a bad time of it.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod. of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosinan, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., -14
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. • • ;!
Half-yearly, 0 g
Quarterly ‘ .. .. .. 0 < 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to Jhe
Manager.
How to Address Letters .
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor , but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin, is
the proper superscription for ‘'copy.” Delay, and,
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to V G f~
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused. . _ . . ~
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence' col-
umn all contributions submitted, whetlier in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, \ erse f
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. . 0
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable Alo.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White .
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tun Bulletin can be obtained in . Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Tjiidgate Circus.
South Africa.' —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street,
Jcpson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco ■; C. IK. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego.
Cal ■ Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co.', Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 580
— fgth. Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey. Worlds
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco; Queen City
News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A. „ _
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Hong
' Ceylon. W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland.
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 1/IC per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
GUn. x 11/in., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, ,New
Zealand Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands. lOoz. id.; United Kingdom All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet—otherwise, Boz. Id , and Sioz. to
jOoz., Hid.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 1/oz., Id.,
and ’id ~ each additional 2oz.
ffi^Sf&cdleZzM.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1912.
THE BULGAR WHO DID.
Whatever the final issue of the wai now
raging in Eastern Europe may be, the Bul-
garian resurrection is something of which
nations and statesmen must take account.
At the moment of writing, ancient Thrace
is under a cloud of battle smoke, and through
the blackness and uproar a very steadfast
and enthusiastic person in homespun khaki
is chasing a flying Ottoman to the verge of
his European possessions. Long ago the
Bulgar was a mighty man of valor, with an
empire of his own which at times was strong
enough to levy tribute on Byzantium itself;
but by the beginning of the nineteenth .cen-
tury his name was mud, and in the miser-
able and blood-stained Balkan villages he
crouched in terror of the Turk, helpless,
ignorant and apparently hopeless. The
wind of liberty which stirred the Greeks
and Servians to a patriotic struggle did not
rouse him ; vet somewhere in his native val-
leys native 'thought began to find expression
in native writing, and with that literary re-
vival a new spirit awoke in the downtrodden
■peasantry who had endured the b'tter yoke
if Islam for so long. In this the Bulgarian
differed from all liis neighbors. The move-
ment for Greek, Servian and Roumanian
liberty came from without. The awakening
of Bulgaria was from within.
Five hundred years of hopeless slavery to
a barbarian master had not crushed the
fighting spirit in the nation, and to-day
there is nothing that looks so likely to bring
Turkish rule to an end as that very race
which was among the most despised in the
whole peninsula. Given no interference
d'rbin without, Bulgaria seems like taking
the Grand Turk himself by the beard and
dropping him ungently into the Bosphorus.
Moreover, interference on the part of the
Powers with modern Bulgaria has not hith-
erto been much of a success. British inter-
ference in the drawing up of the Treaty of
Berlin separated Eastern Roumelia from
the main State. Bulgaria added the separ-
ated province to its own dominions, in spite
of Turkish threat and protest, and Britain
did nothing. Russia sought to control the
infant principality in whose cause it pro-
fessed to have fought in 1877, but Bulgaria
threw off the control, and the big northern
Empire had to be content with a cold and
increasingly distant friendship. Servia
sought to interfere by pouring an army
across the Bulgarian frontier at the very
time when Turkey had massed its battalions
in the south ; but Prince Alexander led his
ill-conditioned and badly-equipped soldiers
against the invader, and in the battles of
Slivnitza and Tsaribrod smashed his enemy
on his own ground. A country which does
things in that way does not look good to in-
terfere with, and the chances are that if the
Turk can be driven out, Bulgaria will do it
and ask leave of the Powers afterwards.
The phenomenon of the new nation of
warriors which is thus presented is one worth
a lot of study from the Australian stand-
point. The Bulgarian has known his
enemy, known that sooner or later a war to
the death must be fought, and has been mak-
ing ready for the crisis when it should come.
When the hour struck he went out without a
moment’s delay, and took his enemy by the
throat. Bulgaria is about equal in popula-
tion to Australia, but has the immense ad-
vantage of having a small, compact and
mountanious territory to defend. Australia
has an immense empty continent, but in-
finitely greater wealth and resources. The
lesson of Bulgaria, whether her success con-
tinue to the end or not, would seem to be
that a small nation really fit, ready and
determined, can still give a good account
of itself against a much bigger foe. There
ought to be hope in that knowledge for a
country like Australia, which may at any
time be called to defend itself against the
armed and drilled hordes of Asia. Despite *
our larger area and enormous seaboard, ear-
nestness of purpose, foresight and thorough
preparation might enable us 'to meet an
enemy in the gate, or, what is still better,
make the enemy think twice or even three
times before he knocks at the gate. Unfor-
tunately, Australia’s political leaders seem
to imagine that a few patriotic words and
some citizen soldiers several thousand miles
from the danger-point are sufficient force
with which to resist the invader. Fit, ready
and determined we might win through ; but
the Government which has the matter m
hand seems determined that we shall be none
of these things. Also, the Bulgarians had
a railway to . take them to the trouble ;,while
Australians will, on the look of things, have
nothing better than a dispirited camel where-
with to get to the front. And it will be a
pretty ugly front by the time the camel gets
there.
THE CIVIC PLANK THAT REALLY
MATTERS.
Most of the candidates for the forthcoming
Sydney City Council elections started their
campaigns this week. The vast majority of
them base their claims to the support and
assistance of a grateful populace on the
number of drains they have had attended to,
the assiduity with which they have caused
the corpses of dead animals to be shifted
from the public view, or the particular line
they have taken in regard to the enlarge-
ment of this or that street. The wider
vision is not theirs. They are almost
unanimous in regarding their bloated heri-
tage, not as one vast city, with the problems
inseparable therefrom, but as an agglomera-
tion of tiny hamlets. They are the proto-
types of those State Rigliters who refuse to
see Australia,, or, indeed, anything whatever
beyond the particular parish which they in-
habit. The' tragedy from the point of view
of Sydney—a tragedy, too, which is being
intensified with every year that legislation
and the State’s railway policy causes the
vast place to expand—lies in the fact that
in this attitude about 90 per cent, of the
inhabitants are in enthusiastic accord with
their civic representatives. Hardly any of
the citizens really appreciate the discomfort
and squalor and dirt and insanitariness in
which they live. This is due partly to lack
of imagination; partly to The absence of any
handy city run on progressive lines which is
capable of supplying a standard of com-
parison; but more than anything to the
lamentable local habit of acclaiming Sydney
as the fairest and best thing that the Com-
monwealth has evolved. That is a delusion
which it is up to the genuinely public-
spirited resident of the infamously-planned
and rottenly-administered town to dispel
with all his might.
As this paper has been remarking for the
past many years, the first thing Sydney
wants, if it is to,get into line with the rest
of the great cities of the civilised world, is
the underground railway service which it
does not possess, and which, under its ex-
isting system, it is never likely to possess.
It wants the harbor bridge,- which lias been
mentioned encouragingly by successive Gov-
ernments for the past half-century, and re-
ported on by innumerable and costly Com-
missions. Also, it wants wider better-paved
and cleaner city streets and footpaths;
suburban roads, which more • resemble roads
and less suggest convulsions - of Nature;
municipal wash-houses, and at least one
municipal Turkish bath; municipal meat,
vegetable, fruit and other markets, on the
lines of the fish markets established when
Aixen Taylor was consul: and municipal
lodging-houses—a particularly vital require-
ment if the Government continues to intro-
duce indigent immigrants, while doing all
within its power to intensify the house
famine. It would probably be better for a
system of municipal telephones, and if drinks
get much higher in cost and lower in qual-
ity, it might turn approvingly the idea
of municipal pubs. A central civic Parlia-
ment should control the whole of the city’s
essential services—the water supply, the fer-
ries, the gas supply and the street cars, as
the councils of up-to-date towns like Glas-
gow and Berlin do. Uniform traffic regula-
tions, under which the casual nuisance or
calamity in charge of a dray or what not,
who lumbers about on the wrong side of the
road, would be leapt on violently, regardless
of whether he offiends in George-street, City, or
the Avenue, Newtown, and uniform street-
cleaning methods, whereby the same effective
and modern implements, and the same com-
petent employees would operate from the
Circular Quay to Botany, are likewise urg-
ently required. These, and a heap of other
innovations, are not so much called for as
howled for. The trouble is, so very few
people hear the uproar ; and, anyhow, as
aforesaid, nothing could be done if it were
audible to the entire world.
The only possible panacea is the institu-
tion of a Greater Sydney. Sydney has not
the remotest hope of getting the State to do
for it those things which are, in their
essence, its own concern. The present State
Government, like every previous Govern-
ment for years past, gathered up the reins
of office with a welter of glozing promises in
regard to immediately embarking on the con-
struction of a North Shore bridge. Money
has been “blewed,” with almost _ criminal
freedom, in a thousand other directions since
then. A herd of expensive public works,
some successful, some dismally otherwise,
has been set going. And now the money has
petered out, and the overseas pawnbroker
has closed his till with a bang. There is
not even enough cash available to pay for
the enterprises that fare already in train.
The usual stage has arrived where the Min-
ister who spoke seriously of getting to work
on the bridge or underground schemes, would
be examined sympathetically by his colleagues
for further signs of lunacy. That stage
always, arrives with N. S. Wales ad-
ministrations sooner or later; the only
thing that distinguishes the present
case from its predecessors is the fact
that it has arrived more suddenly. than
usual. In any circumstances, no Gov-
ernment, affluent or semi-insolyent, is ever
going to dare to provoke the hostility _of
country constituencies by doipg anything
considerable for Sydney. It must tackle its
own problems, or be prepared to remain, for
all time, the ugly, dusty, uncomfortable,
badly-served Early-Victorian institution that
it is. But it can never tackle anything m
a serious comprehensive spirit so long as its
administration is split up among between
40 and 50 jealous and warring and occasion-
ally bankrupt municipalities. It follows
that the first plank in the platform of
every honest and intelligent reformer
must be the wiping-out of these unprofitable
survivals and the substitution of a central-
ised council with the largest sort of powers.
As long as such a body remains the un-
realised ambition of a comparatively few
folks whom the good, easy business man is
disposed to look upon as futile 'cranks, so
long will Sydney’s transport jservices con-
tinue tp be subjects of jest and scorn to
overseas visitors, and so long also will its
filthy streets go on ruining health and pro-
perty, what time its unspeakable roads
make vehicular travel a species of. costly
purgatory. Sydney needs unification as
urgently as the Commonwealth does and for
an analogous reason; because, namely, all
those reforms which are most vital to its
welfare are impossible while it-clings to the
old. played-out forms of government. Mean-
while. the electors worry hardly at all about
a matter which is of the first importance to
every one of them; and their chosen repre-
sentatives, and the persons who hope to be
their chosen representatives, turn from a
consideration of all the larger issues and
blither hard about the dead dogs which they
have buried in the past, and which they
will bury again if a discerning democracy
accord them another term of municipal
power.
A SERMON ON THE ADVISABILITY
OF BEING THOROUGHLY STUPID.
The discourse of “10-2-4” :
This is the day of the handy pocket digest. Ex-
perts are prepared to tell the world, in pamphlet
form, the way to do most things, from writing blank
verse to boxing, and from dry-farming to spotting
winners at the races. Presently, without a doubt,
we shall have a small manual, containing potted, yet
comprehensive, instructions as to how to succeed in
politics. And if the author has any glimmering of
knowledge of his subject, Rule I. will certainly be:
Never get ahead of your time. Australia is littered
with the political remains of men who saw too far
into the future. Its multitudinous Parliaments are
so many Golgothas of keen, progressive brains. Apd
they are the pleasaunces of the good, honest, com-
placent and blastiferously stupid citizens who are
only capable of seeing the merits of ,an idea when it
has developed into a platitude and a truism. The
case of B. R. Wise, K.C., affords one., of the most
horrible examples on record of the folly-of .moving
out of the ruck. Intellectually, he is among f.the
half-dozen best men in the Commonwealth to-day.
He is an admitted master of the English language. ,
He holds a secure place at the top of his profession..
A list of his attainments and' achievements on the ■>
mental side would be a formidable affair indeed.,,
. Yet such is the detestation in which his name is
held among local Conservatives that they only em-
ploy him professionally when they must. No con-
ceivable anti-Labor party would give him a Parlia-
mentary nomination. And, since there are numerous
points on which he does not see eye to eye with
Labor, he is a species of political outcast; and the
country loses the services of a unique brain, and of
a man of education and of vast experience of affairs
and of the world. Wise’s alleged offence in the eyes
of the worthy little burgher who, in a muddled,
feverish manner talks the politics which he has
cleaned from the daily paper that morning, in
his favorite bar or tea-shop, is a matter mainly of
“unreliability.” It has never been possible to de-
pend on him to do or say the obvious thing. In a
community where fully 90 per cent, of the business
and professional men are tirelessly employed in their
leisure moments propounding, with perfect gravity,
and as though they were brand-new thoughts, ideas,
social and political, that have the moss of eld, not to
say the decay of the grave, all over them, such conduct
is reprehensible, in fact loathsome. To some it ap-
pears revolutionary, to some unchristian, . to others,
disloval to Throne and Empire. The writer well re-
members hearing a roomful of Sydney lawyers, im-
porters, doctors and so on, denounce, it might be
said unanimously, the Australian navy project as
“an insult to the Flag”—meaning the emblem whose
honor Admiral Kino-Hall, that enthusiastic advo-
cate of an Australian navy, upholds in these parts:
and he recalls when Old Age Pensions were regarded
as the last cry or howl in the way of pernicious
Socialism. * *
Amongst the well-to-do classes of Australia, the
views which to day are regarded as anarchic and
mad and immoral, will to-morrow be accepted as
eminently sound and reasonable. That is an in-
evitable rule. There is no applause nowadays tor
the State Frights fanatic who vapors about ' taking
up arms against the Federation.” Freetrade is dead,
and “Anti-Socialism” has degenerated into a J°k<‘-
Opposition to universal service—the scheme whicn,
but a year or two ago, used to be referred to witn
triumphant scorn as “conscription” and an un-
English interference with the freedom of the sub-
ject”—only survives amongst a few half-dementeu
folks. And so it is with most of the notions whicn
have won Wise his unpopularity. It seems strange
to us moderns that as recently as 20 years ago
trade unionism . was spoken of in right-thinking
circles in much the same language as is often used
regarding Socialism to-day. It was represented as a
menace to property, liberty and religion. After the
maritime strike in 1891 the victorious employers
girded up their loins and prepared, in the name ot
“freedom of contract,” to crush Unionism utterly.
Wise wrote to the papers deprecating the attempt as
a step that was both foolish and hopeless. He men-
tioned that freedom of contract implied freedom on
both sides; that Unionism was to the worker what
Capital was to the employer, inasmuch as it enabled
him to wait, if need be, till he was offered a fair
market for his goods ; and, in general, he stated what
everybody novv unquestioningly accepts. In the
United kingdom such views had been rife since
Thornton first propounded them in 1870 ; and from
the time Mum adopted them in 1875 they were ac-
cepted, among educated people, as the veriest of
common-places. However, they hadn’t yet .arrived in
the commercial circles of Australia. In fact they
provoked stupefaction and’ a perfect frenzy of dis-
approval. Briefs were torn from the utterer of them
by main force. It was suggested that he should be
expelled from his clubs as a fomenter of lawlessness
and disorder. Of course he was nothing of the sort.
His entire crime or error lay in the fact that he
had seen and rashly mentioned, in 1891, what the
vast majority of his associates were not going to
drop to till 1911, or thereabouts.
It was the same, broadly speaking, with every
acutely controversial question which came up for
discussion thereafter. When Federation was im-
minent, Reid, amid loud cheers from the Tories,
announced that if he had anything to do with it, the
fight over the tariff would be waged before, and not
after, Federation. Wise' urged that a saner and
more patriotic procedure would be to conduct the
tariff fight in the Australian Parliament. For this
he was ousted from his party as a renegade to the
sacred cause of Freetrade. Yet, five years later, in
.1899, practically all hands took his view, and in
their ranks was Reid himself, who said at Welling-
ton (N.S.W.): “I admit that, hitherto, I have only
thought of one thing, Freetrade. Now, with a
larger vision, I see that Federation is more im-
portant.” No one assailed him as an untrustworthy
turn-coat. He had timed his conversion too well.
In 1901 Wise, got his Arbitration Act—the same,
to all intents and purposes, that had been flung out
of the N.S.W. Council in 1900—on the Statute Books.
The uproar against it, in well-to-do circles, was
astonishing. For years the barrister, or house agent,
or attorney, or dentist,, or what not, who spoke in
terms of other than fury of the Arbitration prin-
ciple, lost business broadcast, and went in a certain
amount of peril of being signed up as a lunatic by
his relatives. How many people toj-day would seri-
ously suggest abolishing our Courts 1 of Conciliation
and Arbitration? And what sort of reception is ac-
corded to the intellectual back number or cave-man
who still blithers, in this connection, of the “folly
of attempting to control the inalienable law'of supply
and demand”? Before the Federal Government’s
Referenda proposals were put forward, Wise,' in his
book, “The Commonwealth of Australia,” pointed
out that it would be necessary, shortly, to alter the
Constitution in a drastic fashion; and when those
proposals were submitted to the electors he, con-
sistently enough, supported them. The customary
scandalised outburst occurred in the usual quarter.
Yet, after less than three years study of the possi-
bilities of. altering the Constitution' along the lines
suggested, every one of the more intelligent anti-
Laborites, from W. 11. Irvine, M.P., downwards, is
agreed that as regards Commonwealth control of
corporations, as regards the ‘New Protection, and as
regards the Conciliation and Arbitration proposals
of the' Government, nothing really hostile can be
said. They jib at the amending of the Trade and
Commerce clause alone, and on past form it is a mil-
lion pounds to a jettisoned tram ticket that, within
a very few years, they will be wondering vaguely
what Menace or Horror they were ever able to dis-
cern behind this suggestion.
Take it how or where you will, the entire career
of men of the Wise stamp sheets home the priceless
advantage of being ordinary. Fools do not suffer
the intelligent gladly. In some societies careful
provision is actually made for this idiosyncrasy- on
the part of the mentally deficient. For;..example, in
a British regimental mess it is not -good form to
discourse on art, literature, politics or'any such sub-
jects. Sport and innocuous personalities are about
the only really safe lines of discussion. To put it
shortly, the talk is deliberately levelled down to the
understanding of the stupidest person present. A
very similar condition of things obtains in Australia
to-day. Anyhow, experience shows that all a pro-
minent man has to do in .order to get himself thor-
oughly disliked and distrusted by squatters, business
men, medical practitioners and so forth,* is to voice
the opinions that have been current among culti-
vated persons here and abroad for the previous five
or six years.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Exit Turkey.
With the Bulgarian at the gate of Constan-
tinople and the Turkish Empire crumbling
in ruins before the uprising of the petty
States which were onCe crushed under the
heel of Islam, any number of new problems
are presented to the statesmen of Europe
and to the daily newspaper scribes who ex-
plain tilings to the statesmen. The Turkish
power is numerically a 'very small one, de-
spite the fact that it has again and again
caused modern Europe to lose its sleep. In
the" whole Empire directly rilled by the Ot-
toman the population is only 25,926,000, and
of these but 50 per cent, belong to Islam.
Of; the Turks themselves there are ten mil-
lions, many of whom are widely scattered
among The alien peoples of remote provinces.
In the'European section of the Empire there
are but 1,500,000, of whom nearly half are
in the capital city of Constantinople. The
problem of governing the Turk when his
empire lias been completely wiped out does
not, therefore, appear to be the stupendous
one which it has so often been represented
to be. There does not appear to be any very
sound or good reason why he should remain
in official ownership of any tract of country
vat all. Of the science of government he does
not possess the most elementary knowledge:
as a fighting man he is shown to be a back
number; and as the prize religious fanatic
of the globe, the experience of five centuries
has shown that no people of alien creed can
ever be safe under his rule. The varied and
assorted Christians of the Balkans and Asia
Minor are well enough endowed in the mat-
ter of fanaticism, but there is an essential
difference between the intolerance of Islam
and that of the various more or less Chris-
tian churches in his dominions. The Chris-
tian may slay and destroy in spite of his
creed ; the Mohammedan slays and destroys
in accordance with his. Were it not lor
bitter international jealousy there should
not be the slightest doubt about the con-
clusion of the present wrangle. For the
safety of Europe and the world, the Turk
should be outed, not merely from the Euro-


To Agents:
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1912
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations by “Hop,” Alf Vincent,
Norman Lindsay and all the leading represen-
tative artists, will be the finest Black and
White Work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the National humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the
annual reflection of the life and thoughts of our
country, and therefore useful as well as inter-
esting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates,
but, in consequence of the heavy outlay on th s
Special Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 16th NOVEMBER to en-
sure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.;
Foreign Addresses, 9d.
pean countries he has misgoverned, hut from
a place among the nations. His going may
cause loud wailing among those who hold
his I O U, and something of excitement and
picturesque variety may be lost to inter-
national politics ; but if the eviction does not
take place now it may happen under much
worse circumstances and prove much more
costly. The mere mad-dog doings of the
Turkish troops during their recent retreat
before their foes furnish siifficient reason
for suppressing such troops for ever. As a
plain fact, the Turk is a combination of mad
dog, explosive bomb, placid fatalist and re-
ligious maniac, and the world cannot afford
to keep a puzzle of that kind on the premises
as a mere ornament.
Old Men’s Pensions and Young Men’s
Thrift.
Iceberg Irvine, who grows more irritating
in his politics the further he gets away from
unqualified Toryism, makes a specialty
these times of long talks to little _ women.
To them he presents simple truths jn a de-
ceptive way—offers hot food for thought on
a cold plate, as it were. Last week he met
the ladies of the Austral Salon, Melbourne,
and deplored the “moral anaemia” of Young
Australia, who seems “anxious to have a
post to lean against—a Government post
for choice.” (Applause.) As a matter of
fact, there is probably a larger average
amount of self-reliance hereabouts than
elsewhere in the world ; but Irvine can dis-
tinguish very little of it, and he sees the
impending loss of what little he thinks we
have got. It “would be a disastrous thing,” he
told the ladies, “if a permanent system were
introduced in which boys and girls were to
grow up in the belief that whether thrifty
or thriftless, careful or careless, a benevo-
lent Government would look after their old
age for them.” It would be a disastrous
thing; but what grounds has Irvine for
dreading anything of the sort? Is he dull
enough to believe that Young Australia re-
gards an old-age pension as a lovely thing to
be looked forward to like a first prize in a
Tatt.’s sweep! If Irvine believes that
absurdity, nobody else will credit tin* gro-
tesque idea that the far-off prospect (not by
any means the certainty) of a poor half-
sovereign a week will induce Young Aus-
tralia to deliberately live a life of improvi-
dence for 50 years. The Bulletin has no
brick to throw at Irvine’s suggestion of
National Insurance; but it has a ton to
throw at those who undermine the old-age
pension system on the pretext that it in-
duces Young Australia to be unthrifty. If
the system has any effect on Young Aus-
tralia at all, it probably makes him so
terrified of poverty, that he resolves to do
his best to escape it. To the hopeless old
person, in short, the pension is a beautiful
thing; to the young person the possibilty of
needing it is mostly a nightmare.
—
University Reform.
N.S.W. Minister for Public Instruction
A. C. Carmichael puts in a word for his
bill to remodel Sydney University
As far as the principles of the Bill are concerned
they may be briefly summarised thus: (1) Abolition
of life tenure of the Senate, with provision for an
elective Senate on a wider franchise, the election
being quinquennial; (2) provision for representation
of the State upon the Senate; (3) provision for a
scheme of scholarships in all faculties, exempting the
holders from payment of all fees; (4) provision of
evening tutorial classes to students whether matricu-
lated or not; (5) provision for increasing the'endow-
ment from £lO,OOO to £20,000.
Objection is raised in the Council and elsewhere
to (1) on the grounds that an election will “turn
the place upside down.” No one denies that the
Senate has done .useful and great work in the past,
and the noble buildings, the present staff, and the
brilliant scholars turned out, are monuments to its
work. At the same time the necessity for reform
has to be faced. Since the University was instituted
in 1852, the number of degrees conferred, up to the
end of 1911, was only 3713. As presumably this
includes all degrees, and many students have gradu-
ated in several faculties, it does not mean that even
3713 students have received the University hall-mark.
William Charles Wentworth, in his famous
speech on the second reading of the University Bill
(October 2, 1849) said: “I see in this measure the
facility given to the child of every man of every
class to become great and useful in the destinies of
his country. . . .1 see in this measure the path opened
to the poor man to the highest position which the
country can afford him.' So. far from this being an
institution for the rich, I take it to be an institution,
for the poor.” How far has this prophetic vision
been realised? It may be claimed that the Senate
has made the best use of the means provided ; but a
democratic elective Senate would have so stimulated
public interest in Higher Education that the Govern-
ment of the day would have been forced to provide
whatever money was needed.
One objection to the proposals of an elective Senate
is the fear that certain present-day Senators will not
submit themselves to the indignity of an election,
and that their services would be lost to the State.
Could anything more undemocratic possibly be im-
agined ?
As regards the provision for representation of the
State upon the Senate, it is somewhat significant
that Professor Anderson Stuart (one of the pro-
fessors who proposed to shelve the Bill by referring
it to the Royal Commission), in a “Review of
University Life in Australasia,” published in 1892,
wrote: —-
“In a country where the State does so much for
primary and secondary education, it is rather anomal-
ous that it should be quite powerless in the matter
of the highest education.... It is still more anomalous
when we remember the large subsidies that Sydney
University has’ received from the State. In no other
Department does the State grant away public money
without having something to say about its expendi-
ture. Indeed, it is hardly possible that public atten-
tion will not be awakened one day to this extraordi-
nary condition of things. Then we may expect either
State support to cease, or perhaps a larger measure
of State control will be demanded than would be
good for the University, or than at present would be
accepted -as adequate.” Further on he adds: “It
seems to me that a governing body (i.e., the Senate)
made up chiefly of Fellows elected by Convocation,
but also of representatives of the teaching staff, and
of Government nominees, is the ideal constitution.”
Professor Anderson Stuart has been an ex-officio
member of the Senate since 1883. The views ex-
pressed were held in 1891. This is 1912—and no-
thing has been ‘done. The demand for Reform be-
came so acute that in 1907 Mr. Leveriiiuu was
elected for life, pledged to reform. Dr. Purser,
another “reformer,” was elected in 1909, and Mr.
Piddington in 1910. What has been done since?
Does it not show the absolute necessity for an
elective Senate ? And does not the manner in which
the permanent officers of my Department have grap-
pled with the problem of educational reform during
the past five years mark them as desirable acqui-
sitions to any Board or Senate, which has to keep
abreast of modern requirements?
Now, in regard to the proposed Scholarships.
Hitherto, State Scholarships (or bursaries) have
been tenable only in the faculties of Arts or Sciences.
The consequence is apparent. This year, for example,
there are 20 bursaries carrying remission of fees
and a money grant of £5O a year. Yet, while these
bursaries are open to all students, whether attending
State or private schools, there are only 40 candi-
dates. Whv? Because thev only give admission
to the faculties of Arts and Sciences. I propose to
make the scholarships tenable at the various “bread
and butter” faculties, such as Medicine, Dentistry,
Law, Civil or Mining Engineering, Agriculture or
Veterinary Science. The total cost of graduation in
these faculties is—Medicine. £163 4s. ; Dentistry,
£154 165.; Civil or Mining Engineering, £H 5
Bs.; Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, £ 110 9s.
These amounts are sufficient to completely discount
the aim of the University as set out by Wentworth,
and their mission will throw open the professions
to the son of the working man.
There is another phase. It is claimed that the
creation of so large a number of scholarships will
tend to depreciate the standard of entrance. I
nropose awarding 100 scholarships next year, 150
in 1914, and thereafter 200 each year. Competition is
unrestricted throughout the State, and offers equality
of opportunity for equality of intellect, irrespective
of social status or financial position. This ensures
that none but the most gifted students will benefit,
and each student will benefit in the direction of his
special qualifications. The fields of scientific agri-
culture and of veterinary science are practically
virgin soil; mining, electrical and civil engineering
offer unlimited potentialities in a new country; so
the expressed fear that the new proposals will flood
the medical and legal professions is unfounded.
The institution of tutorial evening classes in
economies, ancient and modern history and sociology,
with other sub.fects to follow, is one that must appeal
to every thoughtful democrat. The student need not
matriculate in trigonometry if he wishes to cultivate
a love for history; the student of political economy
need not pass examinations in Latin and algebra. He
will be able to attend classes just in the subjects in
which he is interested ; and, since the standard of a
nation’s education is . the sum of the attainments of
its individuals, every man who attends these lectures
will be of benefit to the State.
In regard to finance. I propose to increase the En-
dowment under the Bill to £20,000. and will be pre-
pared later, when the full number of Scholarships are
tenable, to increase it to £30,000. The Uni vers'tv
will have to forego certain fees, but it is the justly
nroud boast of the Senate that, in deserving cases,
the fees are already remitted. All our Scholarships
will be “deserving cases.” in that they constitute
the absolute pick of the State’s intelligence, but the
State will ppv an additional fi 10,000 a year to
make up for this loss in fees. This amount will be
more than adequate for the next four years: in fact,
during that term, the University will benefit to the
extent of, roughly, £20,000. When the scheme is
in full working order, with a popular democratic
Senate leading public om'm'on in the matter of
Higher Education, it would be a brave Government
that would dare to refuse an endowment necessary
for the proper carrying on of the scheme.
The Bulletin need not fear that “the shining star
of a great opportunity” will be extinguished by any
amendments that I will accept. The Government is
determined that every boy in the State shall come
into his heritage—the right to the highest education
for which his intellect is qualified.
About Public Groqr.
“Rtjrtj” rises with a bottle sticking out of
his tail pocket:—
There is a chance, however faint, of the question
of State control of the liquor traffic becoming a live
issue once- more in Maoriland. It is a reasonable
proposition that a country with M.L.’s enormous
obligations to meet in the near future might very well
get a cut out of the most profitable form of trade it
possesses. Hitherto the people of the Shaky Islands
have had no choice -of moderation given them at the
local option polls. Either they must proclaim their
satisfaction with the existing pubbery by voting
for a continuance of. the present svstem, or tbev
must vote against it. Yet the size of the drink bill
is an emphatic declaration that a very large number
of citizens use the pubs, and presumably use them
because they want facilities for getting stimulating
liquids. No opportunity has ever been given to
these more or less thirsty folk to say whether they
care for the way in which the liquids are dispensed.
If they dare to say that they don’t like the privately-
owned pub they 1 are told that they can go thirsty
altogether. ,
State control of the business, with brewing and im-
porting of liquor in the hands of a public department,
tremendous safeguards with regard to the quality
and purity of the stuff sold, and the elimination of
all private interest in sales by payment of fixed
salaries to those who do the work of distribution,
must, on the face of it, be a vast improvement on
the present system. Even a rabid Prohibitionist
might, in his lucid intervals, be willing to admit
that much. Of course, the drunker the people as a whole
became the more the State would profit, and this
would be, and has been, urged against the proposal;
but the Wowser must have little enough faith in
his own wowse who does not believe that he has
enough influence on public sentiment to prevent the
State attempting to make undue profits by keeping
the people in a state of perpetual blither. Further,
if education really makes for temperance—and every
temperance advocate declares that such is the case —
what would be wrong with devoting a proportion of
the profits of the monopoly to the ! cause of educa-
tion ? The schoolmaster is about the worst-paid
worker in Maoriland, and at the very time when least
cash appears to be available to meet the needs of the
immediate future, it is becoming more and more
evident that the . amount devoted to education re-
quires to be about doubled. If education will kill
the dr-r-ink, why not' let the dr-r-ink pay for its
own slaughter and thus cut its own throat?
The State couldn’t help standing on velvet in
a financial way, by making the experiment. If
Maoriland’s consumption of liquor were suddenly re-
duced by about half, through the change to State
control, the business would still be more profitable
than almost any other thing which the public could
undertake. At present the proposal is to put the
new issue on the ballot papers, side by side with
No-license and Continuance, and such a course seems
so reasonable, sane and altogether desirable that the
Wowser crowd will fight it to the last whisker.
♦
Tick.
The deputation which waited on Minister
Beeby, the other day, to ask him to elimin-
ate from the N.S.W. Industrial Arbitration
Act the power to recover penalties by a
garnishee upon wages; raises the question
whether the time isn’t ripe to abolish the
whole garnishee business. There are two
things in particular to be said against it.
First, it encourages credit trade, and often
a credit trade of an exceedingly doubtful
character. The man who says that he would
lose a beau of money if he couldn’t garni-
shee is probably quite wrong. The chances
are that he would lose less than he loses
now. If he couldn’t garnishee he would
take fewer risks and make less bad debts
than he does nowadays. He probably can’t
recover half those bad debts through the
agency of the garnishee; so the garnishee,
by encouraging him to give credit, and then
leaving him in the lurch, really does him
more harm than good. The system is, any-
how, an enemy of C.O.D. principles, and
for that reason has this paper’s hostility.
Also, in the second nlace, the recovery of
any sort of debt by this process usually in-
flicts greater hardship on the debtor than he
deserves. Nobody has a right to get into
debt beyond a point from which he has at
least a reasonable chance of extricating
himself; but there are always two parties
to a bargain, and the person who gives un-
reasonable credit is at least as much to
blame as the person who seeks it. In very
many cases where doubtful business has been
unreasonably pushed, the creditor absolutely
• deserves to lose his cash, and should be pro-
vided with no special facilities for recover-
ing it bpyond the ordinary process of obtain-
ing judgment for the amount. Recovery by
garnishee is too much like destroying the
power of the wage-earner to earn any more ;
and as upon his power to earn wages his
very existence depends, the garnishee is in
the nature of a knife or gun or hangman’s
rope or something to finish and make an end
of him. Once the law in its unwisdom used
to send the debtor to gaol until his debt was
paid. As he couldn’t earn any money in
gaol, the debt couldn’t be paid, so the whole
remarkable business defeated itself; both
debtor and creditor lost by it, while the
country paid the expenses. The garnishee is
very much like that in its operation, and
the sooner it is thrown on to the scrap-heap
to join the other out-of-dates the better.
— : —*—-
Some Old, Old Gags.
The idiotic campaign which William
McMillan, ex-M.l’., is conducting against
the taking over of Federal Government
House, in Sydney, by the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment, has had at least one good result.
It has demonstrated the uselessness of the
classic old gags, “disloyalist!” and “pro-
Boer !” for the purposes of present-dav elec-
tioneering. For years and years the Tories
of Australia, like the Orangemen of Ireland,
have impudently adopted the Sovereign as a
kind of political patron saint, and they have
laid it down that those who did not vote
Liberal were traitors to Flag and Throne.
And, to a great extent, the swindle has suc-
ceeded. When the Australian navy move-
ment —a movement which, from the very
start, had the warm approval of the British
Admiralty—first got under weigh here, per-
sons of the McMillan type did a good deal
to delay it by representing that it was a dis-
loyalist plot to dismember the British Em-
pire. Liberal leaders, such as Joe Cook and
W. E. Johnson, seriously contended that
one of the intentions at the back of the
Nationalist defence policy was to “turn the
guns of the Australian ships on British men-
of-war.” Canting humbugs have, at various
times, claimed that “disloyalty” was at the
bottom of the Commonwealth’s policy of Pro-
tection, and that immigration restriction
legislation and the White Australia ideal
were manifestations of the same offence.
George lleid had the superb nerve to try and
make loyalty to Throne and Empire an issue
of his Anti-Socialistic campaign—a campaign
designed solely to prevent such reforms as
Federal control of monopolies and the New
Protection getting on to the Statute Books.
And there is no doubt he eot many votes by
those unworthy tactics. For upwards of a
decade it has been the regular Conservative
practice, throughout Australia, to repre-
sent any progressive or social-reform proposal
as something designed to offend and insult
the Sovereign and the Royal Family gener-
ally ; and when the bewildered author of the
measure has denied that this was so, he has
been mostly met with the utterly irrelevant
yelp of “pro-Boer!” The winter once heard
an inoffensive citizen accused of pro-Boer-
ism because he objected to the break of
gauge between N. S. Wales and Victoria, and
he has seen returned wayfarers scarified for
“disloyalty to the Crown” because they have
cast aspersions on the London climate. The
attitude that the egregious McMillan has
taken up in regard to the Federal Govern-
ment House business is no less imbecile.
And at Bathurst (N.S.W.), last week, an
intelligent crowd of electors made him and a
number of his associates wise to the fact that
the old order has changed, and that some, at
least, of the ancient gags have joined the
snows of yester-year. In regard to the evic-
tion of the Governor-General, McMillan
blithely took the customary point that those
responsible were guilty of “discourtesy to
the King” ; one McHattie, a local doctor,
“told the audience plainly that the people
who were guilty of turning the Governor-
General out were guilty of disloyalty” ; and
an elderly Liberal grocer cried wildly that
the deed amounted to pro-Boerism in its
most loathly form. It is unlikelv that the
crowd bad the least sympathy with the oust-
ing of the Governor-General —a paltry bit of
State Rights pettiness that was worthy of
the Carrtttiiers Administration, from which
the idea first emanated. But it was in no
mood to have its collective leg pulled. The
ranting Empire-savers were leapt on by what
the local papers term “an overwhelming ma-
jority.” An amendment to the resolution of
the effusively “loyal” McMillan was unani-
mously carried, deprecating
the introduction of the name of his Most Gracious
Majesty into this controversy, as calculated to place
our Sovereign in a partisan light before the people
of this State and Empire.
The Liberal defenders of Throne, Flag,
Empire, etc., passed out into the night,
doubtless feeling as though one of the main
pillars of the Constitution had given way,
causing the edifice to fall on their righteous
skulls.
♦
A Row and its Relation to Australia’s
Futile Tariff.
A trade dispute that threatens to presently
cause a lot of bother is pursuing the
'uneven tenor of its way in Mel-
bourne. Some three months ago David
Mitchell’s cement-making employees, who
were then getting the inadequate wage
of 7s. Gd. per day, asked for a mini-
mum of 9s. Mitchell offered Bs. He
claimed to be able to prove by his books that
if he paid 9s. he would have to raise the price
of his cement, and that if lie did such a
thing the imported article would supplant
his entirely, and there would be neither Aus-
tralian cement nor Australian cement-work-
ers. As the Australian wages, low as they
are in this trade, are much higher than
British or German, and as the Customs duty
on the article is only Is. per cwt., with a 3d.-
per-cwt. preference to Britain, David
doubtless told the solemn truth. Shortly
after the said deliverance, lie closed his works
for a' few days to overhaul the machinery,
and when he desired his employees to resume
toil, at Bs. per day, they declined. Whether
this was a strike or a lock-out matters no-
thing; the fact remains that the works re-
mained idle for 12 weeks. Then the lament-
able Packer, of the Independent Workers’
Federation, perceiving a chance of at last
doing something and getting a mb for some
of the unemployables on his books, stepped
forward and offered to supply “laborers” at
Bs. per day, which offer Mitchell accepted.
One lamentable result is that the building-
trade unions have declared a boycott against
Mitchell’s cement —and that piay mean
anything up to a complete stoupage of the
construction trade of the city. The unions are
naturally cursing Packer and all his works,
and considering ways and means of squelch-
ing him and his “blackleg” union; but they
would be better employed ignoring that
bumptious by-product and turning their at-
tention to the real causes of the trouble —
the failure to grant Australian cement ade-
quate protection. Also, they would do well
to bound furiously on the men who
are primarily responsible. The employees
wanted higher wages, and the employer pro-
mised to give them, but he first asked suffi-
cient protection to preserve his industry—
and he didn’t get it. As to whether he actu-
ally needed it, a Tariff Board could deal
with that matter in an hour. As it is, there
is no protection, either for manufacturer or
employees—only a little poor cement, _ a lot
of ill-feeling and a promise of a big indus-
trial struggle. And for that the foreign-
traders in the Federal Parliament and the
Ministry are wholly responsible.
A few words from J. D. Fitzgerald:—
writing in B. 10/10/’l2, said that,
“Looking at the map of the proposed Greater Sydney,
it is a question if the business hasn’t been overdone
and turned into a sort of jest. The suggested area
extends away up the coast northwards past Narrabeen,
goes out north-west into the bush far past Hornsby,
and west beyond Parramatta.” For the information
of “H.H.” may I point out a few things: (1) The
, inhabitants of the area included in the map are
already more or less involved in the civic vortex of
Greater Sydney, and, at the present rapid rate of
building and expansion, these sparsely populated
areas will soon ,be overlapped by the house-wave.
(2) The great British municipalities have, periodi-
cally, put their boundaries further back, and have
taken into their girdle; the outside villages and towns.
Thus, Birmingham and Glasgow have had greater-
city boundary expansions within the last year; and
Bristol has had four greater-city movements. In
Germany, by Imperial rescript, municipalities are
encouraged to enlarge their territory, and to pur-
chase suburban waste land because (a) the muni-
c'pality will be able to plan the outward growth of a
city, and preserve the natural beauties ( which won Id
surely be destroyed by the jerry-building vandal),
and (b) it will be the ground owner and get the
unearned increment. (3) The producers at the outer
rim of the inhabited area of Sydney have a greater
common interest with the City of Svdney than with
the suburban councils through whose bad-roaded terri-
tory they have to pass to get to the central markets.
They are consequently nearly all red-hot Greater
Sydneyians, and should be included. (4) The in-
habited area of. Greater Sydney extends pretty con-
tinuously in'ia stream of houses to Parramatta, Guild-
ford, Cronufla, 1 Narrabeen and Dundas. It would
be to the advantage of the inner core and the outer
fringe alik'e if the area were made very wide. (5)
A bigger-Sydney Council, having territory bevond
the inhabited area, would be able to take virgin
bush for park . spaces—such lovely bush places as
those beyond Hornsby, as far as Berowra, for example.
(6) The Greater Sydney promoters are trying to do
in one bite what Glasgow, Bristol, Birming-
ham and a whole lot of other cities have
done in several bites. after an infinity of
trouble, red tape and appeals to Parliament.
Lastly, .“H.11.” has overlooked the fact that
the boundary set out in the Greater Sydney Bill
is only * for the election of a consultative convention
which is to report to Parliament; so his phrase that
this wide area is to be “ruled by the new council”
is not quite apt. The area for the election need
not be the area of the future Greater Sydney
Council, though it ought to be. But the question of
territory is really of no great importance; it is
quite overshadowed by those of franchise, and of the
powers, the finances and the amount of control to
be given over public and private monopolies.
-
The Fat press discovers the worker to be
a splendid fellow on occasions like the Mt.
Lyell catastrophe, and praises his courage
and other tine human qualities with superla-
tives ; but the adulation merits a sniff. In
the-first place, public sentiment has to be
recognised as a matter of business; in the
second place, it is necessary by enthusiastic
applause to divert attention from the gentle-
manly proprietors, whose cupidity may have
been responsible for the horror. In this noble
cause public subscriptions and general hul-
laballoo about the horny-handed heroes are
extremely useful. Compare the lukewarm,
or wholly unconcerned, attitude of the same
papers when that splendid fellow, the under-
ground worker, is demanding laws and re-
forms that will serve to give security to life
and limb in the mines, with their hectic
enthusiasm over the afflicted diggers after the
mischief is done. The only time the worker
gets heartv praise is when he is dead and
incapable of presuming upon editorial gene-
rosity. Even then he has to be dead in
large quantities. The individual face-man
slain in pursuit of his calling occasions no
amount of newspaper concern, it being quite
safe for newspaper concern under such cir-
cumstances to confine itself to its old job
of insisting on the sanctity of private enter-
prise. ..4,.»
Attorney-General Hughes’s new. Patents:
Act, though aU improvement on the. old!
state of things, appears to suffer from more-
than one aperture in the fence. Under the
new Act candidates for registration as quali-
fied patent attorneys are to be examined by
a Board, that will include two members,
elected by the registered agents already prac-
tising. There are not more than 50 of ffhese-
in all. But the Act recognises ordinary solici-
tors as patent attorneys for the purpose off
electing those two members of the examin-
ing Board. Solicitors in ordinary do not
practise as patent agents. They leave that
business to men who have, specialised in-
patents. trade-marks, etc. Still, if they like,
they can be registered as .patent attorneys;
without paying fees or passing any examina-
tion. And .being legally qualified to do the-
work they'don’t try to do (because they-
recognise their inability to do it properly)„


a
POST
CARDS
u
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will
forward you 12 packets, each containing 6 of
our colored and high art POST CARDS, to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have
sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
-send you for your trouble any present you
may choose from the list of jewellery which
we forward. By continuing the sale of our
cards vou can earn a LADY’S OR GENT.’S
SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN. REMEM-
BER, we want to do business with you
again, and to do this we must give you full
satisfaction. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. WE
HAVE NO CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER
FIRM. We are the largest dealers in post
cards, in Australia, and import our jewellery,
or we could not make you this liberal offer.
Be the first in your district. Our post cards
sell at once, wherever seen.
RECAL POST CARD
126 BOND ST SYDNEY
BEY,
M
AND 9
WE 3AY-5
Because the
self-satisfied
feeling which
makes one
MERRY is due
to a BRIGHT
appearance.
Therefore use
“NUGGET,”
and always be
BRIGHT and
MERRY. [2
á
BRIGHT]
à
Man Can Live —3 Weeks without Food
—3 Days without Water
—3 Minutes without Air.
The air in the Crystal Palace Theatre de Luxe is changed 7
times every hour. The stale air forced out, fresh air pumped
in, by the highly efficient ventilation system.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
“That’s the Williams Way’’ of
guarding the health of theatre
patrons.
cheir names are eligible to be put on the roll
jf electors. Consequently, it is open to any
qualified candidate for membership of the
examining to secure the votes and in-
terest of hundreds of uninformed solicitors
who can dominate the election. Heaven
knows that the unhappy inventor, worrying
with a patent, is entitled to the best in-
formed attorney he can get; and obviously
an examiner approved by the experts in the
business is likely to see that the inventor
gets that sort of attorney; anyway,
he is likely to see to it better than one
who has been elected by a number of non-
expert and quite unconcerned solicitors. At-
torney-General Hughes may, therefore,
think it advisable to restrict the roll of
patent-attorney voters to experts (lawyers
or otherwise) who have been registered after
examination. Also, he might consider
whether any solicitor should rank as a
patents attorney without having passed the
exam, that qualifies a non-solicitor for regis-
tration.
—— ♦
Five or six years ago, when the Ma State’s
Government threatened to become moder-
ately honest, it was decided to establish a
Public Works Fund so that renewals of old
works and non-productive new works should
not be paid for out of loans. The Labor
Government inherited the scheme; in fact,
it thought so much of it that it was going
to make it a bigger thing by transferring all
land-sales money to it. But the Labor Gov-
ernment has got drunk on loans, and part of
the furniture it has smashed is this Public
Fund. A little over 12 months ago
the Estimates provided for a contribution
of £1 >039,065 to the works and closer settle-
ment funds. The actual contributions made
by the Government were £400,336 less than
that; and now £290,065 of even the trifle
that ‘ was paid into the Works Fund is to
be sfolen and paid back into revenue. The
immediate consequence of this somersault is
that the Labor Govenment, which was
pledged to spend borrowed money only on
pernjanent and reproductive works, has now
decided to pay for all its school buildings
out of loans, though the interest earned by
school buildings is exactly 0 per cent, per
annum.
♦
“H.S.” on the dangerous illiterate: —
It begins to look as though the community will be
driven shortly to treat its illiterates like tigers and
jaguars. Last week an immigrant who was
unable to read or write rose up, bright and
early, and slaughtered one whose sentiments towards
him .were of a mosc friendly nature. His trouble
was a haunting impression that the other members
of the household were writing untruths to his wif§
in Ijngland about him. On Sunday a State-school
boy, ,of indifferent education and low mentality,
killed his employer in the casual fashion, that the
normal person swats a fly. His reason was. that
“the • old man had been rough on him lately.” In
comparatively recent times the illiterate was not
atnicced with constant humiliation and self con-
sciousness and bitter misgivings owing to his dis-
ability. The majority of his associates were in the
same plight as himself. To-day he is a thing apart.
The sensation of being an eternal outsider gets on
his nerves ; and unless he is a particularly well-
balanced person he is liable to contract a feeling of
resentment against society—that huge crowd, namely,
which is able to read and write. Where he is ill-
balanCed his resentment crystallises into blind hatred
of some particular member of society, and there is
a murder. By the way, Britain is supplying an
undue number of these dangerous folks just now.
According to one of the Sydney papers, Monday was
“immigrants’ day” at the Darlinghurst sessions—
three out of six prisoners called on to plead had
been assisted hither by the State. It might save a
deal'of crime if the provisions of the Immigration
Restriction Act, which were intended originally to
be applied to niggers only, were used to keep the
dangerously illiterate white man out of the Common-
wealth.
Tasmanian Assembly’s picturesque old
Sergeant-at-Arms, Avho is nearly 90, and has
been retained as a matter of sentiment these
good many years, the other day had to
vacate his chair and his ruffles and his
sword OAving to a sudden indispostion. Asked
to declare Avhat his ailment Avas, the. tottery
old chap returned it as “Anno Domini.”
South Australia is a-going it. On Tues-
day, October 29, the State Assembly author-
ised the construction of railways to cost
(with rolling stock) over £1,000,000. On
Wednesday it passed the Repurchase of
W*harves Bill, involving an expenditure of
£1,500,000. On Thursday it sanctioned the
borrowing of £343,000 for abattoirs and the
building of a railway to cost £70,000. The
average is about £1,000,000 a day. But, as
Bigjohn Forrest once exclaimed: “Pooh,
what’s a million!”
“Norbell”: Possibly Chidley, the night-
shirted gentleman whom all Sydney was
lately talking about, thought he had finished
with the Lunacy Department when it opened
the gates of the asylum and let him Avalk
out; but, if so, he was wrong. Chidley
aaturally didn’t want to go to the asylum ;
and he wouldn’t have stayed there five: min-
utes if the matter had been left to him.
Nevertheless, he hadn’t been out many days
aefore he got a bill for board and lodging:
I am directed by the Master-in-Lunacy to inform
you that the sum of £7 14s. 3d. is due by you in
respect of maintenance during detention, at the
estimated rate of 18s. per week, and to request pay-
ment of the amount at your earliest convenience.
“What’s the use of growling about it!” says
Chidley. “I do nothing, remembering an old
Spanish proverb : ‘He who washes an ass’s
head wastes his soap.’ ”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Palace “The Unseen Eye.”
Adklphi At Cripple Creek.”
Royal “BenHur.”
Tivoli McIntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric • Continuous Pictures.
Colonial Continuous Pictures.
Empress Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Eden Gardens, Manly.. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ...... “ Niuhtbirds.”
Princess’s “The Sins of Society.”
King’s “ The Span of Life.’
Royal “ Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Opera House McIntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plavs.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Wirths’ Park Wirths’ Circus.
Arcadia, St. Kilda .... The Dandies.
Athenaeum Hall Margaret Cooper.
♦
“The Quaker Girl” came back to Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night. The
features of the evening were the splendifer-
ous appearance of the renovated theatre and
the stirring jiu-jitsu dance that is bounded
or wrestled or fought or what-not by Ivy
Schilling and Fred Leslie. There is a touch
of genius in this turn, to whose weird un-
usualness is added the magnificent Schilling
physique and the strength and grace of
Leslie. By the way, -how does the manage-
ment stand as regards compensation to the
loved ones left behind, if Schilling should
break Leslie’s neck? She looks the type' of
maiden who might accidentally fracture an
iron stanchion in the act of playfully fond-
ling it. Miss Grace Palotta plays Madame
Blum on less uproarious lines than her pre-
decessor did; and in appearance she is one
of the most peach-like circumstances of the
cast. Bertie Wright works as strenuously
as ever to be diverting, and the harder he
toils, and the louder he groans, the more
boresome he becomes. A Society to Coerce
Comedians into Behaving like Human
Beings will yet have to be formed by a few
progressive spirits. Higginson—modest and
self-depreciatory as of yore—is there; like-
wise the tuneful Frank Greene; and the
debonair and agile Leslie Holland. Miss
Ivy Bickford is a princess that any royalty
would be proud to have about the premises:
and, using the clearest and truest of light
sopranos, she sings the numbers which the
departed Godwin lady familiarised this city
with. Lastly, there is Miss Blanche Browne,
gracious as a flower, and with the romance
of an alleged recent matrimonial venture
dogging her every step. Altogether, a fine
show in a gorgeous setting.
“THE QUAKER GIRL,” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
Maurice Dudley as Monsieur Larose (Cniei
of Police, Paris).
“Struck Oil,” revived for the 479,328 th
time at Sydney Criterion, “appeals not alone
to the sense of the humorous, but to the
deepest feelings of Home-Like Sympathy”
(vide programme). “While its Humor is
simple and unaffected, its Pathos is equally
simple and True-hearted. One Chief Ele-
ment in the Play’s Great Prosperity is its
Constant and Unvarying Purity. Not once
in its long Career has an unfavorable Com-
ment been made upon its .'.Tone or Language,
but its Moral Composition has always been
praised.” Perhaps that explains it. On the
other hand, perhaps the success is
due to the manner in which Maggie
Moore’s vivacity overcomes her avoir-
dupois and annihilates criticism. The
play slaughters every rule of modern
play construction; and to this critic
it is of value chiefly as the original instance
in dramatic history where the phrase, “I’d
sooner beg my bread from door to door,”
occurs. The present production is note-
worthy for the John Stofel of H. It. Rob-
erts, the gaiety of Maggie Moore, the oily,
underlined wickedness of Charlie Taylor as
Deacon Skinner, and John Stofel’s mouth-
organ. “Struck Oil” is adequately staged,
and was-received with great joy on Satur-
day, the opening night.
“Ben Hur,” the great religious horse-
drama, came back to Sydney Royal last Sat-
urday. Since Sydney last gazed upon it,
Leonard Willey has assumed the brass
waistcoat and fireman’s helmet of Messala,
formerly supported by Harcourt Beatty.
Leonard is a much softer-voiced warrior—
one that would talk gently to his legionaries
even in the heat of battle; but he has the
advantage in years and inches. The play
moves at varying speeds towards a
dull, devotional end, and, judging by the
watch, some of the superfluous moaning has
been cut out to enable the audience to
escape on the right side of 11 o’clock. The
furious chariot race in Act 5 is now con-
tested by three teams instead of two; but
the third unknown is not mentioned in the
betting outside the circus, and does not
seem to be regarded seriously. Eric Maxon
wrestles in debonair fashion with the heavy
part of Ben Hur, and makes love prettily to
his meek and beautiful Esther (Dorothy
Dix). Gwen Burroughs makes a very
spirited Iras ; Eardley Turner is suave and
reposeful as the faithful Simonides; but
Arthur Styan, as the Shiek Ilderim, is
patchy, especially as regards his tan. J. B.
Atholwood’s Balthazar is an excellent old-
man study; Susie Vaughan makes a few
brief but touching appearances as the mother
of Hur; and Leslie Victor and Winter Hall
(Drusus and Arrius, the Tribune) stand
out from the procession of characters. The
incidental dances in Act 3 give. the heavy
show a touch of almost pantomime bright-
ness, but it soon passes. General impres-
sion left by “Hur” is that the flock of cap-
able artists are only there to inhabit the
scene-painters’ string of triumphs, wear the
picturesque garments, and work the stage
mechanist’s interesting props. It is an ex-
cellent entertainment for a deaf man, with-
out being a bad one for the man who can
hear.
An opera-glass impression of Fred Leslie s Ju-
No Kata , or lump-raising “ dance."
From Federal Hansard: —
Mr. (Willie) Kelly: The Prime Minister, after
insulting me in a futile way--
Mr. Speaker: Order ! The hon. member must not
use that expression. ' . ......
Mr. Kelly: May I not say that the Prime Minister
insulted me? , .
Mr. Speaker: The hon. member must not say so,
and if he says it again I shall take some course to
prevent him. _ _
Whereupon Willie, the most entertaining
character in his line —strictly in his line-
in the great Australian tragedy, “The Fiscal
judases,” subsided as suddenly as did
Roderick Speed, the best character in his
line in “The Unseen Eye” (Sydney Palace),
when the careless villain shot him. Much ol
the entertainment ot the evening was lost
in botn cases. Audiences at the Palace
since “The Eye” opened have been keen in
their disappointment at the murder of Speed
in the third act. But the killing was in-
evitable, to keep pace with the circum-
stances, and Randolph Bedford, the drama-
tist, is a whale for the inevitable, even if
it doesn’t pay i per cent. Those who have
not seen the ingenious use of the camera
and the dictograph as burglar and mur-
derer detectors, or been put wise to the
fraud there is in company promoting, or
listened to Bedford’s latest fresh-green dia-
logue, have still a week to rectify the error.
# -i- -Y- *
The best the Crystal Palace had to offer
this week was '•The Unwritten Law, ' a
half-brother to “The Black Cat,” though the
Cat is away ahead at the hnisli. The peg
on which the story hangs is that if your
wife runs away, or even goes shopping with
your best triend, and you kill Uiui, you de-
serve only five years. It sounds a lot, but
some wives might be worth it. At the
Colonial the star was “Dick Turpin” No. 3,
wherein a £2OO reward is offered for Rich-
ard’s scalp. He is still alive, and promises
to drop in again later on.
;;; *J«
“Cripple Creek” has not changed much
since it last rippled through the Adelplii; in
fact, there is only one noticeable variation,
and that one is for the worse. In the fourth
act, for no apparent reason, a snag, in the
ishape of a song, has appeared, possibly
caused by some subterranean unheaval. On
another page of this paper certain explosives
are advertised, and if nothing else will re-
move this song the eye of the management
is respectfully directed to that advt. Other-
wise the piece is almost refreshing after a
long series of “Girl-who-took-the-wrong-turn-
ing” melodramas. The It of the show, when
this paper made an inspection, was Ethel
Buckley, whose rendering of Maggie Mason
should satisfy that young person. A very
close second was the Tatto of Vera Spaull, a
little lady who improved wonderfully during
her “Blue Bird” season. Nellie Fergusson,
the woman who mended her ways; George
Cross, the hero; and C. It. Stanford and
Vivian Edwards, the two villains, were satis-
factory assistants in the scheme of things.
* * *
The Tivoli doesn’t wander into fresh fields
and pastures new this week; but big changes
are pending. The last nights are announced
of Margo, of Vivian and Alton, and of Welch
and Carbasse, and this paper will lament
most the passing of Margo. On Saturday
De Biere, “the Mysterious,” and his com-
pany, will offer food for reflection; though,
if advertisments are any guide, the food
will be hard chewing. Nella Webb has
STRUCK OIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I cannot stand,” my uncle says,
“These grim, depressing modern plays;
Your problem dramas simply make me boil!
Who wants a play that’s woeful?
Ah, give me Lizzie Stofel —
Delightful, dainty Lizzie in ‘Struck Oil’!
“That was a play to see, my boy,
A play a fellow could enjoy !
And acted! Oscar Asche I can’t endure.
And Ethel Irving’s rotten—
These days the art’s forgotten—
But give me dainty little Maggie Moore!
“And Melba,” said my uncle, “may
Be a splendid singer, in her way;
But operas and those Italian things !
They’re simply roar and bellow —
But Maggie’d please a fellow:
There’s a toon in every song that Maggie
sings!”
I took him, to his vast delight,
To see “Struck Oil,” the opening night,
Although I felt that it would be a bore.
For Maggie, for example,
Has grown—well, rather ample ;
She’s Maggie still; in fact, she’s Maggie
More!
It was, of course, the same old play,
The product of a cruder day,
When everybody would soliloquise.
I knew that I had blundered,
And uneasily I wondered
How this old play would seem to uncle’s
eyes. • <,
But, bless you, Uncle John Avas blind
To all that hurt my modern mind ;
“Struck Oil” was Bernard Shaw for uncle’s
sort.
Though Maggie wasn’t thinner
(No more was Deacon Skinner),
Did my old uncle notice it, or snort?
There was “the paper” that was hid ;
There were “the old home” and the kid,
The flapping “front scenes” and the grim
“My God !”
And the pathos of John Stofel
Was laid on with a shovel,
And the humor—Gt was brought on in a
hod !
He sat and gazed with joy entranced
When lightsome little Lizzie danced.
The play to me was mouldy and inept:
But how my uncle’s laughter
Rang out, and rumbled after,
And when the fiddles trembled, how he wept!
For he was back in the old days,
“When plays,” he said himself, “ were
plays,”
Before the happy zest of youth had flown.
I needn’t have been frightened,
For now I was enlightened :
Tfle Maggie _was the Maggie he had knowD.
Ana as 1 sat and waited, sore,
I heard the house with laughter roar
At Stofel’s drill and Lizzie’s tomboy fun.
They laughed and wept, enchanted:
This rvas the stuff they wanted- —-
'The audience were uncles, every one!
N.S.W.
A.


t
w
::;S
<
. >■
J
Schweppes
I
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
exclusively.
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Bates Charged,
t*.ian3 No. 236 General.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
added a few new songs ; and D’Arc’s Mar-
ionettes, Marini, the Quinlan tenor, and
Mozetti still loom large in the programme.
$
Amongst the constellations that are glitter-
ing noisily every week-night, and at periodical
matindes, within the walls of the National
Amphitheatre, the pride of place is held by
Miss Violet'Black. She and a useful com-
pany do a sketch which would go better if
the various London allusions were more
clearly understood by the multitude. Phil
and Phlora are funnier than most of their
eccentric tribe, and the Bartz Trio do some
marvellous things on what they call an in-
visible wire—that is, a wire which is well-nigh
as indiscernible as a clothes-line. That ster-
ling comedy-actor, Aubrey Mallalieu, who
has been appearing in a comedy sketch, is
in his last nights ; likewise Ward and Vere
and Tom Lee.
HS * $ *
One of the best war pictures yet unwound
in Sydney is contained in “Lucile,” a
Lyceum production of the very lengthy
poem-novel by “Owen Meredith.” The love
story which runs through this Crimean war
yarn is well interpreted by the Thanhauser
Co. “Lumbering in Hungary” was a satis-
factory “also ran.” “The Midnight Wed-
ding” is announced for next week.
* * * *
“Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford,” hero of the
Yankee novelty that conquered Sydney and
came to Melbourne Royal on Saturday last,
is first-cousin in melodrama to “Alias Jimmy
Valentine.” Jimmy was a born burglar, who
turned honest under moral suasion and
carried his pals with him. Rufus Walling-
ford is a born wild-cat company inventor,
who flaunts himself into the lethargic town
of Battlesburg with the intention of annex-
ing all its dollars, but is turned honest by
force of circumstances. He also carries his
accomplice with him. On wings of roguery
they soar to heights of commercial respecta-
bility, and remain there as going concerns.
It is an unlovely story, but it is at least
amusingly farcical, which the tale of Jimmy
Valentine certainly was not. From first to
last, “Wallingford,” on the stage, is a bur-
lesque of the Yankee novel that inspired it.
The novelist’s hero is the typical up-to-date
Robert Macaire, passing from swindle to
swindle, and suffering a number of incidental
indignities as he proceeds, a red-faced, pim-
pled bounder of 40 or thereabouts. When at
last he gets nabbed by the Law, the man
who compounds his felony says: “You’re
only the logical development of the Ameri-
can tendency to ‘get there,’ no matter how.
It is the national weakness, the national
menace, and you’re only an exaggerated
molecule of it.” The end of Wallingford (in
the novel) is that his rescuer offers him the
chance to turn his champion impudence to
profitable account in a legitimate business
way. The end of Wallingford (in the farce)
is an assured position as Battlesbursr’s all-
round benefactor and supreme millionaire.
Heaven smiles upon his accidental refor-
mation.
* * * *
The plot bristles with bright absurdities
and redeeming points. The “boobs” are im-
possibly boobish, but their distinctive charac-
ters are neatly caricatured. With one ex-
ception, the women of Battlesburg ar: mere
brainless inducements to matrimony, the one
exception being a typist© who sits at work
in the entrance hall of the hotel, and is
sufficiently sane to have doubts of Walling-
ford’s hona-fides. But her spark of intelli-
gence flickers out when the gaudy impostor
makes love to her. Miss Josephine Cohan
plays the stenographer part as effectively as
its narrow limits permit. Miss Holloway,
Miss Wingfield, Cambourne, Edwin Lester
and others are well placed in minor charac-
ters; and seeing that Wallingford and his
accomplice, “Blackie” Daw, make no real
claim to be taken seriously, it doesn’t matter
that they are utterly unlike their originals
in the novel. Harry Clarke, as Blackie,
appears to be inviting suspicion rather than
disarming it. Fred Niblo’s Wallingford
hasn’t a suggestion of the experienced mag-
netic spieler about him. He might be a
beautiful young man from a drapery store
who had cultivated a Family HERALD-hero
style of fascinating address' by acting in pri-
vate theatricals. But the style suffices for
the part. It is a “glory” part. Walling-
ford carries everything before him. When
he frowns, you know that the brain behind
the forehead is working wonders. Also, you
feel that no misfortune could ever befall such
a head of hair.
* * * *
_ Melbourne was introduced to “Night-
birds,” at Her Majesty’s, last Saturday;
therefore, some of the already familiar melo-
dies which happen in the entertainment, but
are not in complete harmony with it, will
he hummed around town for the next few
weeks. “Nightbirds” is neither musical
play, comic opera, nor vaudeville. Its elu-
sive frivolity contains a little of each of
those things, and its ruling sentiment is
expressed in Prince Orloffsky’s toast —
“Here’s to Wine, Women and Song, and
may the Wine and the Song be always good.”
* * * *
With the exception •of Countess Cliquot,
who shows some concern for the purity of
the home when a Hungarian gentleman pro-
poses to stay with her for five days, the ladies
of this frisky narrative are no better than
the men would wish them to be. The
Countess’s parlor-maid turkey-trots and
bunny-hugs, with the Prince, in the reception
room of the New Age Prison. All the other
charmers on the bill are members of his
Highness’s private ballet, and their dancing,
in abbreviated muslin skirts, does credit to
his royal taste. Edmund Sherras, as the
potentate in question, suffers awhile from a
settled melancholy, and defies the worst
efforts of W. S. Percy to make him laugh.
Jack Cannot, Talleur Andrews and Reginald
Roberts are mostly engaged in seeking im-
propriety in the most likely places, whereas
Percy wanders up and down the foreground,
delivering yards of patter to the first person
he sees. As a rule, the small _ comedian
ranges from funny to humorous in “Night-
birds.” Andrews sings a couple of solos ad-
mirably ; Miss Arundale scores in dance, song
and dialogue; Cannot is droll as the Count
who gives Miss Florence Young much cause
for anxiety, and she sounds to great advan-
tage in the concerted numbers, whilst look-
ing her very best in a series of handsome
gowns. Also, she divests herself of a gar-
ment with great success.
* * * *
Melbourne farewelled the Rudd family on
Friday night, at the King’s, and on Saturday
Bilanderson’s company returned to the scene
of its former misdemeanors, with “The Span
of Life.” The plot careers round a tutor,
Richard Blunt, who becomes a lighthouse
keeper and goes to Zambesi, because he
loves Kate Heathcote, who is robbed of her
inheritance for the sake of the insurance,
and is only saved from penury by crossing a
chasm upon the backs of some wandering
acrobats, Avho happen to be touring Zam-
besi, which is well-known as a happy hunt-
ing ground for theatrical companies. Any-
way, it all looked like that on Derby night.
Cyril Mackay, who plays the heroic Blunt,
defies his enemies in three attitudes and four
acts. Rutland Beckett, whose villain seems
rather like a mixture of Iceberg Irvine and
the last of the dandies, is assisted in his knav-
ish tricks by one Joshua Gurnet (Charles
Brown), who is full of grog and hero-hatred.
Miss Duggan chants the lines of the girl
whose money-box was robbed for the sake of
the alimony, and Miss Olive Wilton gasps
her way through the part of the villain’s
most distressful mother. Temple Harrison
and Miss Fanny Erris are the comic relief.
The Bulletin can only suppose that they
need the money.
* * * *
“The Sins of Society,"' ac Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, still contains the perfect gentleman
of a money-lender who advances £7OOO to the
semi-heroine without even hinting at in-
terest. Lady Marion loses the sympathy of
at least half the audience when she attempts
to poison this nice-mannered gent. Times
are not quite what they were, it remembers,
and the best of us may want a kind uncle
at almost any moment.
* # * *
Encased in a gown which beggars mascu-
line description, and with her osprey feather
floating on high like the banner of Romance,
Margaret Cooper nightly coaxes smiles of
delicately modulated amusement from all
who call in , at Melbourne Athenaeum, be-
tween 8.15 and 10.30 p.m., or thereabouts.
The tall, masterful-looking charmer has been
drawing first-rate houses to the Collins-
street hall, which is mostly devoted to flower
shows, lectures on the human inside, and
similar impertinences. •
* * * *
“Well, here I am, as fat as ever,” was the
way Miss Florence Baines introduced herself
to Opera House patrons, on Saturday, this
being a variation of the lady’s old jest when
she was in here some years ago, with “Miss
Lancashire, Limited.” Apart from this joke,
Miss Baines provides a fairly bright perform-
ance. She exploits her rather thin voice and
exuberant personality in a number of “imi-
itations” of music-hall characters—which
suggests to the present critic that there
should be money for Maggie Moore in a vau-
deville stunt on similar lines. Bert Bilton.
another newcomer, fails to commend himself
to a section of the house, which prefers a
comedian who wears a red nose and can
turn back-somersaults, to one who sports a
biled shirt and plays his own piano accom-
paniments. Some more new arrivals are
Taylor and Arnold, whose “musical non-
sense” sometimes sounds like a sort of rag-
time Lewis Carrolling. This turn so appeals
to the audience that they forget that it is
possible to have too much even of a non-
sensical thing. Other good turns are pro-
vided by the acrobatic Max Franklin troupe
and Thos. Bentley, Dickens impersonator.
* * * *
A three-act circumstance at West’s Mel-
bourne house last week was “A Fatal Dance,”
the usual story of a passion that begins in
sweetness and ends in slaughter, and has
much amorous incoherence in between. The
plot follows a rut worn to the size of a
canyon by the multitude who have had
designs on the Seventh Commandment; but
it provides opportunities for a Danish
actress, Asta Nielsen, who plays the chief
part with grace and blandishment. More
sensational fare was “The Inner Circle,” a
fiction of bombs and a Black Hand plot,
with the Long Arm of Coincidence working
overtime. Two other features on the bill
were “The Missing Finger” and “A Study
in Faces”; so it is more West’s than the
writer’s fault if this par. concludes more like
a report of an anatomical demonstration
than a passing reference to a picture show.
H* H*
St. Kilda (Vic.) now finds a refuge from
its sadder thoughts in the entertainments
of the Dandies, who occupy part of the
Esplanade, and loudly announce themselves
by electric signs. There are about 10 or a
dozen Dandies, their commander-in-chief
apparently being one Calvert, a consistently
melodious performer who can deliver a song
like “Parted” without spoiling the arrange-
ment of his features. A similar artist is
Renn Millar, who in “My Steed and I” dis-
plays a good-enough voice that is never per-
mitted to run to waste. Harry Graham is
declared to be the humorist of the co.; while
Arthur Mack, who warbles ditties like “Nora
Malone,” sports a green hat to top-off the
innuendo that he is specially expert in Irish
character. Of the Danderinas, Misses Tessa
Byrne, F. Henderson and Dorothy Manning
are all vocally attractive ladies whose smiles
are triumphs of modern facecraft. Miss
Manning has also in her repertoire a start
of surprise, which she used with great effect
last Friday, when she debuted and took de-
livery of large consignments of foliage.
$ $ $ $
When inspected at the P’ran Lyric fVic.)
last week, “The Mystery of Notre Dame”
turned out to be the story of a man who,
after bolting from his girl with suicidal in-
tentions, is gaoled for a crime he never com-
mitted. There is a very gentlemanly corpse
in the production, and it is the failure of the
police to rightly account for its deadness
that leads to the gaoling and all the other
trouble. The prevalence of death and suffer-
ing about the rest of the programme was
very marked ; and, after noting the spectacu-
lar end of the lady in “The Last Dance,”
and the accidental finish of the female in
“The Wandering Musician,” The Bulletin
“THE SINS OF SOCIETY ,” AT MEL-
BOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
D'Arey Kelway as
Mr. Hogg.
Hugh Buckler as Noel
Ferrers.
felt that the omission of views of a morgue
was a distinct oversight.
■Jf. ;!: * *
Adelaide Royal has made a quick change
from the brisk and snappy humor of Ameri-
can politics in “The Woman” to the Hiber-
nian humor and sugary melody of Allen
Doone. The new man arrived from Mel-
bourne in a big motor, and found the Ade-
laide plain and hills worth exploring. The
Tivoli has said good-bye to the marvellous
Schenks, and is welcoming a batch of people
mostly new to Australia. The King’s puts
up a strong bill, with certain Bohemians
(who include the King’s College Boys) re-
sponsible for the first part of it.. Joyous,
teams are getting frequent again with the
coming of summer. Arcadians are at Henley
Beach, and at the Exhibition Branscombe
presents the very popular Dandies, includ-
ing the Dampiers and George Morgan-
very much the team of two years ago. West s
pictures are dragging in a lot of unusual
patrons with the fine Queen Elizabeth and
Essex drama —English history seen through
French eyes, and brilliantly played by the
only Sarah. The other films mostly rely on
the Mount Lyell disaster.
“Busk”: Martin Harvey comes to Australia shortly,
with his own company. In stating this a few weeks
ago, he mentioned that one strong card would be
“The Playboy of the West” ; but since then he has
expressed a doubt whether he will play the piece
any more. Rival comedians named Fay and O’Doherty
have done good business with it in America, but it
has roused a fearful hubbub amid the Irish. It
seems to be in the Handy Andy vein, depicting Pat
as a bungler with two left hands. Yet the London
Times and Pall Mall Gazette (edited by Irishman
Garvin) declare it is a first-rate play, worthy to be
placed beside the current London successes of
“Bunty” and “The Milestones.” I fancy Harvey
will experiment with it in Sydney and Melbourne,
remembering how Pat told the Piper, “Play me the
Byne Wather jintly. and see how I can shtand it.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
Drury Lane had a centenary the other day. That
is, the present building, which was opened on Octo-
ber 10, 1312. There were two others previously on
the same spot. The new shop started with riots and
alarms. A prize had been offered for the best
poetical address to be delivered on the open-
ing night. None of those sent in were con-
sidered good enough, so Lord Bacon was com-
missioned to write one, which he did. The
115 rejected poets were furious. They turned
up night after night and attempted to recite
their poems to unwilling audiences, only to
be ignominiously chucked out. For a long
time nobody could make money out of the
place. Everything was tried—-tragedy, com-
edy, farce, grand opera, circuses, masked
balls, performing lions, etc. E. T. Smith,
father of Melbourne’s L.L., held on longest.
It was under his management that G. V.
Brooke appeared there for the first time.
Augustus Harris was the first to make the
Lane pay. He started management with
George Rignold as his bright particular star.
George R. brought good luck to the house,
and it has been making money ever since.
Coincidence once more. Charles Frohman, who has
captured half a dozen London theatres, commissioned
Pinero, Barrie and Bernard Shaw to write each a one-
act play for the Duke of York’s, with a view to pre-
senting a record triple bill. Each dramatist wrote
without knowing what the other two were doing.
To his astonishment Frohman found that Pinero and
Barrie had hit upon the same theme, and had worked
it out on practically identical lines. A thunder-
storm played an important part in both pieces, and
as no audience could stand two thunderstorms in one
evening, Barrie went to his cupboard and produced
another piece of confectionery.
A few Randolph Bedfordisms from “The Unseen
Eye,” now attracting theatregoers to the Sydney
Palace: “There isn’t any devil. If there was, you
I meaning a Stock Exchange man] would have floated
him into a company long ag0.”....“A man’s a very
comfortin’ thing to have about the house.”
[ Merely Mary’s reflection.] .... “You talk of bad
luck, and you’re married to a beautiful affectionate
woman that keeps y’.”.... .“Don’t swear on the
Bible. Go and kiss the safe—that’s got money in
it, and money’s more sacred to y0u.”... .“It’s good
to tell the truth when it hurts the other fe110w.”....
“A man without a friend is a dead man.”....“1
never paid a cent into the Bank of Kindness, and I
can’t expect an overdraft now.” “There was
never a train started without somebody being late
for it.”. . . .“You’ve only got enough pluck to be an
honest man.”. .. . “You think I’m lucky! Why, if it
was raining soup and everybody else had a spoon, I’d
have a fork.”
11. B. Irving will soon be off for a 12 months’ tour
of S’Africa. Mrs. Irving (Dorothea Baird) is not
accompanying hubby. She “finds the strain of acting
too much for her nerves, and has determined to retire
from the stage.” ' S’Africa has all the luck.
“Avon”: I look forward to the Melbourne
Shakspeare Society’s forthcoming production of
“The Tempest.” G. Rignold was the last
to act Caliban in Melbourne. He had made a suc-
cess of the part at the Queen’s (London ), under the
management of Henrietta Hodson (afterwards Mrs.
Labby), in the era when Irving, Toole and Ellen
Terry were engaged at that house. Brooke acted
Prospero in Melbourne, with Heir as Caliban. With
Rignold, Cathcart was Prospero, and Miss Simmonds
took Ariel. Charles Kean’s London production was
about the most sumptuous of all that he did at the
Princess’s. Bob Brough acted Caliban in Liverpool.
Recent London productions have shown Beerbohm-
Tree and Benson as Caliban. Neither good. Asche
would be great in this weird r6le.
“Reka”: The early-door mania in Auckland
(M.L.), mentioned by “Kohu,” developed even more
madly during the latter part of the Asche season.
The booking queue began to form at 9 p.m., and a
party of idiots with camp-stools and provisions pre-
pared for an all-night wait. A coffee-stall drew up
alongside in anticipation of business, and kindly
friends homeward bound from the theatres looked in
and spoke encouragement. The booking office opens
at 9 a.m., and after their all-night vigil many of the
bookers did not get in until nearly 11. Which was
a better fate than they deserved.
“II.”: When Sarah Bernhardt was playing in Aus-
tralia, books of the plays, with the French words on
one page and the English words opposite, were
obtainable at a bob each. The simultaneous flick, as
the leaves of several hundred books were turned, was
a feature of the performance. The gods, who were
not particularly occupied in following the French
words, grasped the situation early. With their eyes
fixed on the books beneath, they were ready for the
turning of each page, and augmented the rustle with
a “fer-lick” from above. Sarah did not always stick
to the book, though. Playing in the draughty old
Adelaide Royal, she remarked in the middle of a
tense dramatic situation that she wanted thijit (force-
fully condemned) door shut. And the book-holding
followers of the drama searched madly after the
strong words which were not there.
THE PARLIAMENT’RY COON.
( Founded, rhymes and all, on the best vaudeville
models.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down Macquarie-street, in the Su-mmer’s heat
Strolled a big fat love-sick coon;
There was lamps alight, for it was at night,
An’ dere was al-so a moon;
As he saw his babe, standing in the shade,
In her low-cut gown so gay,
This big heavy coon stood beneaf de moon,
And unto his turtle dove he then did sa-ay:—
Baby—you are ma lady—
Oh, come and hear me —I’se gwine to speak;
I adore you—Ah’s voted for you—
And Ah’s found you—a good safe seat;
Fair, dear —I hope we’ll pair, dear,
For Ah want you—for all ma life;
I’m starred —-for fame in Hansard:
Oh, come and hear me —rthe time is ripe.
But his dusky babe —didn’t li-ke his trade,
Although he’d caught her eye;
And she told him soon—that he needn’t croon
When all de nigs was passin’ by ;
She was feared she’d find —that he’d talk her blind ;
And his House was hot and dry,
And she’d rather go—to a real good show,
Though eb’ry night this coon might yell and cr-y:
Baby—you’re sweet as pay-day ;
Your voice is like a—division bell;
When you’re near —I’ll always jaw, dear:
On eb’ry subjec’—some fac’s Ah’ll tell ;
You’ll fix—all ma statistics,
And read ma speeches—both soon and late;
That form —-must share ma platform:
You’re ma selected ca-andidate.
N.S.W.
NORMAN LILLEY.


a
u
i
«
Zephyr Tunic Shirt
EXTRAORDINARY VALUE FOR
This Zephyr Tunic Shirt is worth almost double
the price. We bought a manufacturer’s stock of
shirtings at reduced prices, and made the shirts up
in our own workrooms. That is why we are able
to offer them at 4/6 —practically the London price.
Made of high-grade Zephyr Shirting in up-to-date,
good, clean, stripe designs. With soft centre pleat,
stiff neckband, and stiff rounded cuffs. In all sizes,
14 to 17i inches collar 4/6
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE
to any part of Australasia.
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
â
ã
Comfort
For One-Penny-Farthing per day!
Warm Your Home with a
Perfection Oil Heater
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
SOCIETY
THE MARTYRS
The Women’s Social and Political Union held a
demonstration at the Albert Hall last night, when
300 women, who had suffered imprisonment, occupied
the platform attired in white.— Gable.
“Briner” : Capt. Garside, chairman of Melb.
Marine Board, just back after a world-
wander, left with lofty ideas about the local
port’s up-to-dateism. He returns with a
“Shattered, Sir.” He did not expect Mel-
bourne to be quite up to London, Liverpool
or Southampton, but surely it would hold its
own against Durban or Capetown. It
doesn’t. At Durban and Capetown they have
bluestone or granite docks; Melbourne has
makeshift timber piers. In his whole trip
he didn’t anywhere else see one big steamer
berthed against a wooden pier; and. even
worse, he found the local port behind even
second-rate ports in the matter of electric
cranes and hoists. And nowhere else did he
see an important landingplace not served by
railroad or tram.
“Bosun’s Mate”: N.S.W. Marine Court
had before it last week two shipmasters —
one who tried to hurdle the steamer Rock-
lily across the bar of the Nambucca river
(North Coast), and another who endeav-
ored to plough Our Elsie inward over the
Bellinger river (also North Coast) —and
the .eminent tribunal shook its head sadly
and regretted the damphoolishness of the
coastal skipper when he wants to be a
marine steeplechaser. But the Court didn’t
have the circumstances placed before it in
the plain, bald-mannered way which I pro-
pose to adopt. Here is a skipper outside one
of these bar harbors with the signals
at “Dangerous.” Inside there is about
1,000,000 ft. of timber waiting to be lugged
to Sydney ; also, 1000 pigs for the high-price
market; 1000 boxes of butter for tranship-
ment at the bloated city all deteriorating in
the sun; 300 cases of fish, and so on. There
is a nasty lump on the bar with a sus-
picious northerly set, but the man in charge
of the approaching hooker knows that the
stronger considerations are the crowd of
impatient sawmillers, storekeepers, cocky
agents and fishermen on the wharf, the 10
tons of ice for the fish, the perishable gpods
for the storekeeper, and a family at home
to support. Naturally, the skipper, unless
the odds are 100 to 1, risks it. Ninety-nine
times he gets in all right; the 100th, his
ship is bowled over on top of the break-
water, and a scandalised Court asks him
didn’t he see the flag. In the cases last week,
counsel for the defence plaintively urged
that the ship “had to make its trio.” a
solemn enough truth. Judge Backhouse at
first fell heavily on this argument, but list-
ened to it finally and let off both skippers
with a nominal sentence and a severe lec-
ture. He stated that the next mariner who
came to grief against the signals would
hear from him in a way that would surprise
him. Meanwhile, the skipper who wastes
time and money hanging about for a safe
bar will hear from “the boss” in a way that
will not surprise him in the least. So the
harassed coasting skipper is between the
deep sea and two devils—which is a trifle
over the odds.
An up-country South Aus. township has
found a brand-new excuse for the inevitable
“complimentary social” —music, speeches and
light supper all complete. This time it was
to welcome and congratulate young Mr. So-
and-so on his acquittal on a charge of cattle-
stealing !
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Concerning Canon
Garland’s utterance (B. 24/10/’l2) that
the Timor rebels were equipped with modern
rifles. I happen to know that in the rebel-
li°n last year on Ponope, Carolines, when
the Governor, the secretary and two other
Government men were killed (the natives
bashed in the Governor’s head and left it at
that, but the secretary’s hands
and nose were cut off, a rope
tied around him, and he was
dragged around the island till
he died), modern breechloading
Winchesters were plentiful
among the supposedly disarmed
or unarmed natives. Most island
men are well aware that the
Japanese supply the natives
with firearms. Once, a Jap
vessel landing goods was sus-
pected of gun-running and was
searched. Cases filled with
arms were discovered; but as
the Japs were not caught land-
ing arms, and as they naturally
declared the arms to be for some
other place, nothing could be
done._ The Japs are graduallv
working their way into the
Archipelago. They are cheap,
and, therefore, in demand. In
connection therewith, some
whites occasionally get what is
due to them. Thus a Ponope
resident a while ago bought a
schooner badly in-need of re-
pairs. As he could get the
work done very " cheaply at
Yokohama he sent the ship There
m charge of a Jap skipper with
Jap crew—cheaper than the
available white skipper and
mate would do it with Kanaka
crew The vessel was repaired
at Nippon and was duly dis-
patched for the Carolines. It has not turned
up yet. The general opinion is that it was
jieaclecl north, and is now engaged in the
lucrative sealing and raiding trade.
* * * *
“Carmine”: Harking back to Blamire
Youngs Melbourne exhibition, I like his
painting of Tennyson reading “Maud” to a
circle of friends, including Mr. and Mrs.
Gladstone. There is a happy touch of re-
m the brilliant oranges before Mrs.
Gladstone. It reminds me of a yarn, about
G u ™ er - A rather tame-looking seascape
ot his was hung beside a gaudy production
by someone else, and the big artist splashed
m a spot of red on his own to help to bal-
ance things. People said it was a case of
petty spite, but next day he turned the spot
into a buoy, or wheelbarrow, or lighthouse,
or something, and the people who came to
see had to spend all their time trying to
hnd out which it was, and couldn’t spare a
glance for the gay picture beside it.
Somebody, signing himself “An Old J.P.,”
contributed a characteristic Jaypeeism to
the Melbourne newspaper correspondence re-
volving around the life-and-flogging senten-
ces given to Moore, the Kew burglar, and
McDonald, the child violator. His Worship
regards the reprieved Moore’s sentence as
better than the hanging originally pre-
scribed : but in the case of McDonald he
thinks “the punishment should be very dif-
ferent. It should be of such a nature as to
render it impossible that he should again
commit such a crime. I know that while he
is imprisoned lie cannot, but the country lias
to suppoit lnm. I icould give him one flog-
ging and set him at liberty." It is pathetic
NOT WHAT HE MEANT.
THE C USTOMER: “A spoon , please!"
ABSENT-MINDED W AITRESS: “I really haven't
time."
the faith some people have in strict economy
and archaic violence. If Hamlet had asked
a Jaypee if he could minister to a mind
diseased, the Jaypee would have at once pro-
duced a set of hangnmn’s lashes, and then
looked around for a triangle.
Burst of enthusiasm from Melbourne: —
Norman Lindsay’s exhibition, just opened in the.
Oentreway here, has, as usual, put the daily
paper critics in an awkward position. For the sake
of their reputations as critics, they dare not with-
hold praise; yet the infuriated hag Respectability
forbids entire approval. The exhibition is extra-
ordinarily interesting. ,Of the 150-odd pictures, two
alone, “How Pantegruel Found Panurge” and “The
Argument,” should make the reputation of any man.
The former ( £l5O 10s., and cheap at the price), is a
wonderful example of Lindsay’s work. A Rabelaisian
subject, handled in a masterly manner; remarkable
for its grouping and extraordinarily skilful detail.
The scene is crowded with figures, each possessing
an individuality, plus the personality of the artist.
The feet and calves of Pantegruel loom large in
the foreground, and about them are children scrap-
ping, lovers loving, a woman suckling' her babe, and
a delicious little Norman Lindsay kid picking a
butterfly to pieces. Then there are 43 Petronius illus-
trations. Wonderful technique is displayed in these :
drawings, especially in the way the artist produces
his tone and color effects by the most delicate pen-
work. The female figures arrest attention. Lindsay’s
women have been labelled “coarse,” but there is no-
body like him for depicting those splendid animals—
women like Helen and Cleopatra—who belong not to
an age, but to all time. He shows us the mother-
of-warriors type, who, like lole, ask but the privi-
lege—
“.... to bear sons unto my lord,
To bring lives like a vassal to my king,
To feel the gums of heroes at my breast,
And mighty poets drink their fill of me.”
In one of the Petronius drawings, “The Chase,” the
female face at the window provides us with a glimpse
of woman through the ages, from Eve, of Eden, to
La lace, of Little Lon. The exhibition includes many
delightful humorous sketches, dozens of bear draw-
ings and one rich and vital water-color, “The Pirate,”
which was reproduced in The Lone Hand, and makes
one wish for more work of this class from this artist.
“N. or M.” : Australia’s first experiment
in flag-flapping occurred in the ’4o’s of last
century. The unfledged States formed an
Australian League to protest against any
more convict, and displayed a blue flag with
a Southern Cross alongside the Union Jack.
Maoriland endorsed the movement with en-
thusiasm, Sydney imported its last shipment
of undesirables by strategy, and' Van Die-
men’s Land went one better and sent its
last consignment back unopened. Denison
was at this time at the head of affairs in
Tasmania. He fought against the League
tooth and nail, and looked with an embittered
eye on the five-starred flag floating above
T. D. Chapman’s office opposite Government
House. Chapman, a
leading Parliament-
ary light of the time,
was President of the
League, and his rela-
tions with Denison
were hot percept-
ibly improved when,
sallying out from his
den at the head of his
clerks and em-
ployees, he rescued the
Governor and his car-
riage from a moo that
had been expressing
its sympathies. The
Neptune, which
brought John Mit-
chell to Tasmania,
was, I believe, the
vessel that was
turned back in its
tracks. It had on its
voyage out been de-
layed five months at
Capetown, where the
attempt to land pri-
soners almost turned
the white settlers
black with fury. The
colonists instituted a
boycott, tolled minute
bells, hung their towns
with crane, cut off
supplies from all who
were in any way con-
nected with the Neptune, prayed, denounced,
harangued and raised Cain generally; so
the Colonial Office ordered the Neptune to
move on. -- •
THE AGE OF FINANCE.
SHE: “ But don't you think she is too young
to be married?”
HE: “Well, yes! She doesn't come into her
money for another two years."
SALT O’ THE EARTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
According to the Paris Matin, woman is man’s in-
ferior because of the small percentage of chloride of
sodium in her blood. This, the French journal gives
out as scientific fact. In other words, says the
Matin, the blood of the male is more salt than that
of the female, and observation of animal life shows
that the more salt there is in the blood the higher
the intelligence and general development. Woman, it
is declared, is inferior to man in everything—in-
telligence, reason, and physical force. —Daily paper.
Because the salt is in his blood
He does the finest things ;
He leads by earth, and air, and flood ;
The finest songs he sings;
Though Woman fights for “equal rights”
And cries for “equal pay,”
Quite well she knows the way he lights,
x\nd all her little battles fights,
In his big, mannish way.
The jay !
The strong, good-natured jay!
Because sh'b hasn’t got much brine
Save that behind her eyes,
She makes him walk the straight chalk-line
Until the day he dies ;
A few salt tears, and all the salt
That makes of Man a king
Is hers until the white stars halt
In their great march across the vault
Where lady seraphs sing.
Dear thing!
She owns Barth’s salted king!
He slaves for her because she’s not
The slightest bit like him;
Of course, it’s sentimental rot—•
But what is Beason’s glim,
When Love’s own flambeau ’tis that guides
This old World on its beat?
She is the weaker one ; besides
(This honeyed fact the Salt King hides),
She’s very, very sweet!
Yes, sweet!
She wins because she’s sweet!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
THE VOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* You hoW .my heart in thrall
1; By all your beauty’s spell,
I sigh fo'r you apart:
Believe, jne, or I die,
My Life ! My Own !
Yqu hold (or so I want to have it known)
My heart in thrall (I really have no heart)
By all your beauty’s spell. (I mean my own —-
Or mirrors lie) I sigh for you apart:
(That yawn was like a sigh)
Believe me, or I die
(My life!) My own!
(I want to have it known
That, though I have no heart,
Beauty I own,
Or .mirrors lie ;
And, if I sigh,
By love alone,
My life! I shall not die !)
MAJORCA.
WAIF.


Speedy and
thorough
cleansing
Mrs. M. Crawford, of Leichhardt ,
Sydney, writes :
“ I find it pays me to use
‘ Sunlight ’ because of the
speed and thoroughness with
which it does its work. It
gives a fresh a.nd new appear-
ance to prints and cashmeres,
which no other Soap I have
ever tried can do.”
COOD
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP
Beautiful Finger Nails.
Would you like to have your nails possess
that pink, shiny, shelly appearance that is
so attractive ?
If so, use
De Leon’s
Nail Polishing Powder.
A dainty toilet specially obtainable in 1/6
boxes from Washington H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co., all Chemists, and
the proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,
Melbourne.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT S CO , Melbourne,
for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Kforj
ALL-BLUE UNDERWEAR!
of Porous Light-Weight Wool.
Some years ago we introduced Summer Underwear
under the above designation—its special advantages
being its light weight and unshrinkable all-wool
texture. It has sustained every claim we made
for it, and is in great demand by men who have
a preference for all-wool undergarments. The
weight is ideal for the Summer season.
SHIRTS, 5/9. PANTS, 5/9.
Pants are all cut to full length.
Please state chest and waist measurements.
New Catalogue free, on request.
PEAPES & CO.
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
At the end of last week, the cables dashed
and dotted the news that the Turk had had
his fez bashed over his eyes, and that the
heard of the Prophet was about to he used
to stuff the Balkans’ sofa-cushions. At the
tail of the news appeared the usual message
about the elaborate atrocities performed by
the thrashed and retreating Unspeakable.
The Turk has probably never run so far and
so fast as he has in the present fiasco. But,
though hurried and harried by victorious
armies, he has always found time to do
a little disembowelling and eye-gouging.
The ordinary kind of barbarian would
not trouble about these dreadful ex-
tras of warfare once he was well
started on the road for home. But the
Turk’s devotion to the outrage business is so
great that he must linger to do his dreadful
ittle jobs, even at the risk of getting a
sword-thrust between the shoulders. He is
an incurable devil, is Atrocity Pasha ; and
none the less dreadful because, as a rule, the
moral odor of his antagonists isn’t exactly
violets.
* * * *
The Hindoo, usually regarded as one of
the dirtiest sores on the face of the earth, can
teach Australia one lesson in cleanliness,
anyhow. When his mother-in-law’s or any
one else’s corpse is left on his hands, he
doesn’t bury it three or four feet deep in the
middle of the town, where it will help to
kill several more of the population. Instead,
he does the right thing by taking it to some
handy nlace and cremating it. At Lismore
(N.S.W.) recently Dicky Harman Singh
died, and the Hindoo population took half a
day off to show the allegedly sanitary Aus-
tralian how the thing should be done. Next
day the ashes and teeth were collected : the
former were thrown into the river ; the teeth
were sent to India to be heaved into the
holy Ganges.
* * * *
According to a Dago merchant of these
parts, the modern Greek army has been
trained by French officers. Turkey is sup-
posed to have had. the assistance of German
experts in bringing its warlike arrangements
up to their present state of imperfection. It
looks as if the two great national systems
were thus going to receive something in the
nature of a test, and even if the Greek
doesn’t make good in the end, his early suc-
cesses go to show that his form has vastly
improved since his last scrap in 1897. Once
the Turk worked mostly by British method,
and some of the things he did in 1877-78
were a credit to Bull. Some of the other
things he did would have been a disgrace to
the Devil.
THE JARGON OF THE STABLE.
TIPSTER: “Be sure to back Knucklebone to win
yer a pot of money , and then EMPTY IT ALL
OUT on Rice Custard ƒor the larst race.
See!”
One John Olderson is asking the law to
give a definition of the word “useful,” as
applied to domestic toilers. John took a job
as boots-and-useful in a Colac (Vic.) hotel,
and was presently requested by the licensee’s
wife to wash the dishes. He consented, but
emphasised the fact that it was merely “to
oblige the lady.” The- next day, on John
reiterating this chivalrous gag, he was briskly
sacked. He thereupon sued for wages, and
a week’s pay in lieu of notice. The honor-
ariums refused the week’s-notice claim, but
made an order for the wages due. John has
now appealed against the decision, and a
Supreme Court Judge will presently chew
the problem. The ex-useful claims that his
duties were merely to clean the boots and act
as porter, whereas the licensee avers that
a “useful” can legally be ordered to do any-
thing under the sun. It is an interesting
problem. This writer has known “usefuls”
who, without demur, polished the knives,
chopped wood, dug the garden, cleaned the
canary’s cage, and performed other light
exercises. He knew one member of the craft
who was even called upon habitually to
“do up” his mistress’s blouse, but, as he
afterwards rose from “boots” to co-re., his
case can hardly be taken as a precedent.
“The Pariah”: The mournful entry of a
Queensland Governor into Dryandusty (B.
24/10/T2) reminds me that Brassey, Vic-
toria’s falling-off Excellency, had a warm re-
ception at Colac. He was passing through
to stay with one of the district squattocrats,
and the town spread itself in a display of
“loyalty.” The most successful effort was
that of the State school kiddies. Major
Robin drilled the nippers in their part. As
three flash four-in-hands sped past the
school, three flasher cheers were given, and
“Gorsave” was set going. As the last notes
pursued the vice-regal party up Cameron s
Hill, a cyclist pedalled laboriously from the
opposite direction of Murray-street. He was
a globular and perspiring cyclist, and his
appearance excited such ribald mirth that
the school pursued the puggareed rider for
half a mile, mostly with rude remarks.
When they came back the horrible discovery
was made that the cyclist was Brassey.
Nature takes grim revenges sometimes;
and bushman Daveney, riding across a
lonely part of Terrick Station, in the Long-
reach district (Q.),was the victim of one of
them a couple of weeks ago. When he did not
return, a search party went out, and found
his dead body, with one arm amputated at
the elbow. Then Sherlock Holmes got to
work, and gradually unfolded a hideous tale.
There were young galahs in a nest in a hol-
low limb, and in the opening to that nest
was found the rest of Daveney’s arm. On
the trunk of the tree were an infinity of
scoi'ings and scratchings, evidently made by
a man’s spurs. The height of the nest
showed that to insert his arm in the opening
Daveney must have stood '.on his saddle.
Then, evidently, his
horse had moved from
under him ; the sudden
wrench had caused the
hand to twist and hold
fast, and the man was
left dangling in the
air too far from the
trunk of the tree to
grip it with his legs
so as to ease the strain
and allow him to re-
lease himself. Grown
d e s pe ra t e, he had
drawn his knife, and,
probably by the use of
his teeth, had opened
it, and tried to hack
through his arm at the-
shoulder. Failing there,,,
he had got to work
on the elbow, and ac-
tually succeeded in
cutting through suffi-
ciently to cause, his
weight to break what
was left. After ..fall-
ing to the ground his
worst troubles com-
menced. Iron resolu-
tion and indomitable
pluck had enabled him
to cut through has own
arm ; but it was!value-
less to stop the bleed-
ing, and he had, of
course, cut an artery.
That was fatal. After
staggering a few
paces, he collapsed and died from loss of
blood, and all his splendid fortitude was
wasted.
* * * *
“Gr.V.W.” : A thermometer under a black
cloth will register a higher temperature than
one under a white cloth. Maoriland vine
growers put black paint on the walls on
which the vines are trained, in order that the
fruit may get the last ounce of heat out of
the sunshine. People wear white clothing
in hot countries to keep them cool. Yet the
Tory person asserts that the Almighty made
men hlack to enable them to endure tropical
heat! It’s a dreadful reflection on either
the Almighty’s intelligence or the Tory per-
son’s veracity; and of the two I’m dis-
tinctly inclined to suspect the Tory person’s
veracity.
A HABIT OF THE FAMILY.
THE SQUARTTER'S YOUNGEST DAUGHTER (to
the mee-yowing mother of ten kittens):
“ Pussy, you know very well that we never
employ people with encumbrances! ”
“Kodak”: Some playwright or novel-
ist should store up the printed re-
ports of the recent accident whereby
a , Sydney railway guard, who was
holding on to a carriage stanchion, was
thrown 15 yards into the arms of two ticket
collectors. The lightning stroke which did
it was too hurried to reflect that the ticket
collectors had no immediate need of even' a
well-liked workmate. A more discriminating
force would have aimed a nice girl, or two
nice girls, into the collectors’ arms, _or
thrown an escaping criminal to the pursuing
detective, or hurled a murderous, escaped
baboon off the carriage in which the heroine
sat alone and unprotected. A mere hap-
hazard heaving-round of characters is just
annoying. The sensational novelist would
save up and use his thunderbolt in this
fashion :—•
“Good-bye!” she cried. She wept and clung to the
stanchion, while the monster she had married at the
bidding of her avaricious father tried to drag her
away. There was a peal of thunder and a blinding
flash. When she came to she was lying, a lovely,
rich young widow, in her lover’s arms. Nay, more!
The same stroke that .had thrown her 15 yards, and
ended her brief married life by hurling her husband
under the wheels of the passing train, had heaved
her angry father into the deep engine tank, dashed
the insulting guard into a truck of sand, hoisted
the inquisitive station-master on to the spikes of the
roof, lifted the junior porter behind the coal-stack,
where he could see nothing, and given her golden hair
the wave she had always longed for.
The lightning stroke (supported by news-
paper cuttings to salve a dubious publisher’s
conscience) is fully equal to that other grard
stand-by, the long arm of coincidence. It
is almost impossible to overwork either of
them.
“Kodak”: The Jab-
bers sacked their im-
migrant maid after
one of the recent hot
wind days. Coming
home parched and
shrivelled after a
wearisome day at the
races, they beheld
smoke pouring from
three of the house
chimneys. They
charged in to inquire
the cause, and almost
fainted when the hot
front door was opened
by a dishevelled and
lobster - red female.
The house breathed
smoke at them like a
hungry dragon as
they perspired tremu-
lously on the mat.
“What the devil have
you being doing?”
screamed Jabbers. "Is
the place on fire, or
what?” Miss Brit-
annia took a deep
breath and nervously
wiped her perspiring
face with the corner
of her apron. “No,
sir, there isn’t no-
thing on fire. But I
thought the house
should have fires in
it, sir, it bein’ win-
ter.” Jabbers blew
out his cheeks at her.
“Winter be d d!”
he yelled. “Winter’s
just over, you fool!”
Britannia tottered. “I
alwuz thought Octo-
ber wuz winter, sir!”
It was Jabbers’ turn
to totter, and he did
so; also he cried on
account of the smoke.
“This isn’t England!” he stormed. “Don’t
you know that the seasons are reversed at the
Antipodes—where you are now?” Britan-
nia looked dazed for a minute, then burst
into scalding tears. “I—l didn’t know I
wuz at- Tipodes! I thought this wuz Aus-
tralyer!” Then Jabbers, quite insane,
rushed for the water-jug to extinguish Bri-
tannia’s October beacons, and soon the
sizzling house was full of steam and pro-
fanity and a discharged maid’s snivelling.
* * * *
Turkey now knows how it feels when
anybody has got the Bulge on him.
* * * *
The news that the Bulgarians have been
storming fortresses with hand-grenades, and
taking entrenchments at the point of the
bayonet, should be of considerable interest
to Australian military chiefs. It proves
that half-trained men who cannot shoot
straight don’t count for much when up
against smaller forces of well-trained sol-
diers. Had the Turks been able to hit the
mark, it is safe to say that no Bulgarian
would have ever got close enough to use
either hand-grenade or bayonet. And if
Australia were attacked to-morrow, its chief
trouble would be that it mostly wouldn’t be
able to find the enemy with a bullet. There
is only one way to remedy that —to do as
England did in the days of the long bow,
and make regular practice of markmanship
compulsory.
THE PROPOSAL.
THE DAMSELS OF THE DAMNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is only last Sunday that I saw three girls
leave the church I attended dressed —or undressed —
in such a way that, upon close observation, I could
trace practically the whole of the details of their
forms. —Heroic Sydney Sun correspondent.
I watched the Damsels Three
Go past half-nakedlee.
I did not turn my outraged eyes away;
But gallantly I nerved
Myself, and so observed
The “details” of the Damsels of To-day.
I looked, and looked, and looked;
Saw where the bodice hooked;
Saw where the gown to bust and bicep clung ;
Saw each round, heaving breast.
And my consumptive chest —
Ah, curses that / am no longer young!
I weaken at the knees
To know that Methodies
Have figures—flesh and blood, like other folk.
Religion’s dead and gone
Since sausage-skins are on
The forms I can’t reform, nor yet revoke!
N.S.W.
IYLES INNISON.


Regarding the proposal for electrifying the
suburban railways, it is the present intention
of the Ministry to invite the syndicates or
individuals interested in the browu coal fields
to tender for the supply of a considerable part
oft** power that will be required.—“ Argus.”
ltfc S* (Melb) is-trying do raj^e
f>r 2k memoriad do dtje lade (JenDooflji
Cay
vew aaietly
yev
fro} in Melbourne
W*> oK^ve^
'fooling Wrrfi &.
tnucV) 'Foo
bio for
Kin).
sf> ur of S*fS
•tffere is evidence of & growing Chn’s’tT&ji
feelina be*tWe various cUwon>in*t7ons
certainly l6«y •
getting closer 'togelW.
Ik
fViply
Of
Hhe BuU«itn S«S S «S*S 'Hjait”’tf)®' memorial
't3X«,'tfje -forrv) of' 3k ' r r>2v*'^/e. grout
of tt>e <^«f >er'al$ > life WokK •
(SoWaJ —
? Z/lndei' v/liip
TiTe Sentence of” -tl>e (jsmr'fTs Moor©
M'DonaJd be Vm\>ri<,orte<l -for h>e -flooded
occasionally.
of- Wljo strewed r o^es
ir> ff><* |>2Ctt> of baloved KSytc When he
arrived' Zyt.-ffce. locaj r*ilw*y st&tion inspired
ol * r yCSr tjST' fce. idesy of 2k •
Attnuzd releb>'A+»ov» on, ..
(Trafalgar Day)
~sf(L Wowser' fo iffe. funteK_
.. / Sorry for your sin ? "
Wouia y our moraJ s«nce be blunter
■lf you w lucK id win ?'
By 'to-njorro\f
11/ my present" p&irr;
drunK my Cub of 5 0|,^ov^
" i fin i*r^,n..: oK ;
Some of the deeper tones were wanting ifi
the gamut of Australian character. The main
characteristic was that nothing seemed very
good, or nothing seemed very bad—nothing
seemed very right, or nothing seemed very
wrong. It was a kind of moral anaemia, one of
the symptoms of which was that it was some-
body else's business to look after tilings. An
increasing number of young people seemed to
be anxious to have a post to lean against.
—lceberg Irvine.
A^O(?aI-
-7
yo«n^Aws^-’.—" I Spose
I OU^Vt - +o Sonjryjor,
t*f>
')0 ■ftjl |jo^-|“.
MAINLY CUP AND CARNIVAL.


The Household Disinfectant-
Carbolacene
Cleanses and disinfects
in one act.
Used by Nurses in the siek room.
Instantly destroys all germs.
In the bath and for washing the
hair.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging carpets, ete. Removes
dirt, prevents disease.
A wonderful healer of cuts and
sores and skin eruptions.
For Washing Animals. Destroys
all Vermin.
USED BY ALL HOSPITALS
If not obtainable at your Chemist or Storekeeper, send for trial
pint bottle—l/3 Post Free to any address.
w
SYDNEY t
Arthur Muston & Sons.
BRISBANE :
Moylan & Chancellor.
MELBOURNE:
Mitchell & Bellair
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
Enormously
a
3 Selected Diamonds, set
and fine Gold
in Platinum
• £B/8/-
5 Selected
and fine
Diamonds, set
Gold
in Platinum
£l2/12/-
Our Managing Director has iust returned from Antwerp, where he renewed and perfected our
arrangements for the representation of Diamonds in Australia.
This and our enormous output permits of our Selling Diamonds (set in jewellery or loose), at
merely a broker’s commission on landed cost.
Unhesitatingly we can say that we are selling Diamonds at Prices Lower than London.
The great output pays us, and we make so many new customers through it.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
RECONNOITRING.
VETERAN (with broom): “While yer up there,
Ned, just look if yer can see the mail
buggy a-conmin'."
“Yarrum”: Last week I noticed that an
authority on Australian birds, who should be im-
prisoned or shut up somewhere, wrote in the Aus-
tralasian Catholic School Paper (for senior
classes) that the curlew “builds a nest on the ground
the same as fowls.” The curlew does nothing of the
kind. The bird simply drops its eggs on a bare rock,
or among some loose stones, and the sun does the rest.
I’d put all the nest into my left eye, and it wouldn’t
make me blink worth talking about. And, only
yesterday, I came upon a couple of boy readers, who
might have been doing mathematics or helping their
mothers with the housework, hunting for curlews’
nests. That’s why I say that the writer should be
dealt with. I’ve risen rapidly to contradict the silly
statement, lest other boys may be led into wasting
valuable time.
The tale of “Bilbax” ~
About marram-grass and other related n *
Marram-grass was, in th ® fir f, t special pur-
Australia by Baron von Mueller for the speci 1
ZSJS ■U.’S "CSrsl
yet contest of this or any, of the
many services rendered to his adopted couty
lovable old German scientist. Any We
Warrnambool or Port Fairy newspapers, an} so' ™
of the first potato-growing settlers, or any botanical
authority, will confirm my statement.
At Armstrong’s Bay, behind which lie some oi the
famous potato lands, "there is a
of the encroachments made by the sands m the ie
intervening years between the first settlement and the
adoption of von Mueller’s method of prevention The
original road between Warrnambool and Port Tairy
ran close to the coast, but clear of the hummocks as
they were then. Fiftv years ago the overflowing sand
compelled its abandonment. Now-, m “
covered bv sand-hummocks 40 feet high, in others
it rises like a causeway above the sand, which, after
having covered it, has moved further inland.
Amongst old residents there is a conflict of opinion
as to the Sea movement within the period of local
inhabitation. Some of them can point to good evi-
dence of its having receded m places; others claim
that its general movement is to follow the sand in-
land. The old stone wall at “The Basin contradicts
both’ theories so far as its immediate locality is con-
cerned There is room, therefore, for difference of
opinion as to the site of the old Spanish ship once
lying on the beach here, high and dry at low water,
and about which an ever-recurring discussion is car-
ried on ; but, in my opinion, the probability is that
it is now a good distance below low water., Forty
years ago I spent many Saturday afternoons search-
ing, with other youngsters, for the buried treasure ot
the old ship. (“Them Spaniards were dead sure to
have buried this gold in one of the big hummocks
before the blaekfellers killed them.”) But we knew
better than to bother looking for the wreck itself ;
for from one of a gang of beach-rovers of an earlier
decade than ours we had acquired the secret of its
fate. They were a tough-conscienced lot, those earlier
buccaneers, to stand by and watch successive histo-
rical-research parties, even to the present .day, waste
time and money and sweat and language prodding
the sand in a futile search —for the old wreck had
disappeared in a bon fire years before. But it wasnt
our secret; so we kept it too. These marauders who
preceded our gang worked profitably, for a time, an
old alleged aboriginal burying-ground in the hum-
mocks, the skulls from which sold for a pound each •
most of them going to London curio-collectors and
for scientific purposes. We inherited the unsaleable
rib and shank bones, etc., but nary a skull. Here s
a clue for investigation; for some of these skulls
should still be easilv traced. The odds are against
it; but there’s just a chance that they were really
from the skeletons of the shipwrecked Spaniards.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : A prohibition order is a tough
problem. A short time ago a stranger from Maitland
way settled down in a
South Coast (N.S.W.)
town. On the first Sat-
urday night, with his pay
in his pocket, he mean-
dered into the principal
street. Up against a
groggery he got into con-
versation with a tall, dig-
nified gentleman, whom he
asked to come and re-
fresh —the Maitland man
was not one to mop liquor
with the flies. They en-
tered the pub and sat
down to it. The first
drink had hardly settled
when the T.D. person
asked his newly-made
friend if he were going
to do it again. “And
why?” asked the friend.
“You’ll see,” said the dig-
nified fellow, “if I go out
and get the sergeant in.
Don’t you know that there
is a prohibition order out
against me?” It was a
new girl, who didn’t know
the prohibited one, that
served the drinks. But
just here the landlady en-
tered and spotted the
offender. Then she or-
dered him off the pre-
mises, and asked the man
from Maitland what sort
of a low-down animal he
took himself to be, and
called him everything she
could imagine for “trying
to get a poor widow
I woman into the clutches
of the law.” The stranger
did a bolt, and hasn’t been into the place since.
* # * *
“Tiaki”: The remarks of “Brass Button”
(B. 19/9/’l2) re Castlepoint (North Island of M.L.)
revive weird memories. The “rock” pushes its head
high into the atmosphere, and, at the water level, is
pierced through by a cavern where, even in the hot-
test and stillest weather the air is colder than a
Wowser’s charity. When the sou’-west wind romps
in, a mighty shaft of white spray roars through the
rocky tunnel and spews itself over the adjacent land-
scape. Nothing can stand against that zephyr. It
would blow the horns off the Devil. The lower part,
called the “reef,” is a high, smooth bank of rock,
something like a giant bed bolster in shape, and
about a quarter of a mile long. There have been, I
reckon, more lives lost at the “Castle” than at any
other headland in Australasia. The Maoris call the cav-
ern “Te-Rua-o-te-Wheke-o-Rangiwhakoama.” Te-Rua-
o-te-Wheke means “the Cave of the Octopus,” and, ac-
cording to ancient Henares, it was here that the
mighty explorer of the Pacific, Kupe, had an argu-
ment with a giant octopus, which he pursued and
afterwards slew at Picton, a beauty spot on the
brow of the South Island.
FROM THE CADDY’S POINT OF VIEW,
The Crown Law Department of Victoria has decided that golf is not a game within the meaning
of the Act, and may, therefore, be practised on a Sunday.
C ADDY: “I agree with them there law fellers that golf ain’t no game, but I'd like ter
know what work is accordin’ to the Act."
“Nunawading” : A few things about yore-
time shearers, gleaned from Spence, of the National
Parliament. A squatter between the Murrumbidgee
and Darling used to keep a bit of raddle under a
glass case on his mantelpiece. The manager said it
built the woolshed. Raddle was the stuff used to
mark sheep not properly shorn, and for which the
owner refused to pay. The manager boasted he had rad-
dled 40,000. Spence has a copy of an agreement under
which the men got no payment until they had gone
750 miles for it to Adelaide. Shearers had to pay
exorbitant fees at Adelaide registry offices. From
£1 to £5 would be given to make sure of certain
sheds. Shearers were usually forced to buy their
supplies on the stations. Here are prices charged
30 years ago at Moulamein station, Riverina. The
town was less than a mile away, and things were
rather dear there. Flour in town £1 7s. 6d. per
bag; on station £3 2s. 6d. Tobacco in town 65.,
and on station 12s. 6d. All other requirements pro-
portionate. Yet squattters bought their supplies
wholesale in big cities as cheap as storekeepers, or
cheaper if the storekeeper happened to be under the
thumb of a city capitalist. On the Murrumbidgee,
60s. per bag of flour was charged at a station on one
side of the river, while at the town just across the
stream it was £l.
“E.O’F.”: One hot Sunday morning, three
months ago, I saw Pudgely sprawling on the veran-
dah of his villa. The lawn-mower stood deserted in
the sun, and some heaps of warm, freshly-cut grass
gave off a delicious fragrance. I leant on the fence
and remarked “Good morning. Looks rather like
rain.” Pudgely’s frightfully limp form stirred, and
he raised his head and stared at me wildly. “Don’t
tell me that,” he cried. “You don’t really think it’s
going to rain, da you ?” I looked at the sky again.
“Looks very like it, old man.” He groaned and fell
back on his elbow. “I suppose it will! And I was
just getting this place trim, too! Never you take
a place that has as much grass as a Queensland graz-
ing lease. I’m always going here! By the time I’m
half finished round the front, the d —d stuff is knee-
high at the back, and the cat is able to lose itself
on either side of the house. Then I have to rattle
round the back before it’s too late; and all the time
I’m toiling and sweating there, I can hear the muck
shooting up in front. Never tried to push a heavy
mower through thick grass, did you? Well, I do it
every Sunday—and I’m never in what you might call
decent physical training. How do Idoit ? I dunno !
Perhaps it’s will power—all I know is that it isn’t
strength. If I allowed myself to give in What’s
that?" He rose up stiffly, like Lazarus from the
dead, as the first of the rain drops pattered on the
roof, groaned terribly, and, without a word of fare-
well, staggered inside. Last week his heart gave out
as he was cutting the backyard harvest, and the
undertaker had to be ’phoned for. Being an old
neighbor, I attended the funeral. When I arrived
at the house the new curate was endeavoring to con-
sole the widow. I didn’t catch the first part of his
speech; but I distinctly heard him wind up with,
“And you know, dear Mrs. Pudgely, ‘All flesh is
grass.’ ”
NOT SO BLACK AS SHE WAS
PAINTED.
SQUATTER'S WIFE: “Why didn't Mary come
up to do the scrubbing to-day, Billy!"
CAMBEWARRA BILLY: “Oh, Missus, that
pheller very sick. Head go round and
round and round!"
S.W.: “ Intoxicated, I suppose?"
C.B.: “Oh, no, Missus; too plurry drunk for
that!"
THE MERINO COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. J. E. Lord, an English analyst, having con-
ducted a series of elaborate tests, is satisfied that
the hair of a cow is really wool. —Newspaper item.
So, Posie, you are better than I thought,
Aye, better far it seems;
You’re even greater than the cow I wrought
At midnight in my dreams.
For, after all, at best that dreamed-of cow
Would give a bucketful
Of milk, but you, the wise men tell us now,
Will fill a bale with wool!
And yet it’s very sad to think that through
The toil-scarred long ago
A bale of wool was growing rank on you,
And I —l did not know.
Why was this" secret kept so long from me?
Where was this scientist
Through all the years to keep this £ s. d.
From falling in my fist?
To think each morning when I milked you, Pose,
And flies and beetles drowned,
You were potential with new-fangled clo’s
Worth fifteen pence a pound.
To think that when the willy-wagtails plucked
Their nests from off your back,
It was the very stuff I might have trucked
For many quids a sack.
And when my milkmen were not milking, they
Instead of resting at
The work of grubbing stumps, or making hay,
Might well have scissored that
Extensive wealth from your prolific hide
And pressed it into bales
For shipment to the marts at Christmas-tide,
To catch the season’s sales.
But better late than never, Lord declares:
Although it’s mighty hard
To entertain an angel unawares
In my own milking-yard.
And I have lost how many golden sov-
Ereigns through being blind,
When you, good Posie, were a jumbuck of
The pure merino kind.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


Don’t lose interest. Renewed energy
of Stearns’ Wine: of Cod Liver Extract,
vitality and make your work take
interest.
in every dose
Increase your
on an added
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
ä
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
MADE FROM LEMONS
ONLY
THE TROUBLES OF DIGESTION, pain, flatu-
lence, acidity and so on, are happily in most cases
simply the expression of some fleeting disturbance
of function. The best way to restore tone and regu-
larity to the intestinal tract is by taking a wine-
glassful of “lIUNYADI JANOS” ' natural aperient
water the first thing in the morning every second
or third day.*
Foggitt, Jones*
Pork Sausages
<)> a, r,
ZMs
mm
For breakfast on a cool morning, for
night’s tea, for picnics, for ail
“Acasions when a quickly prepared,
appetising dish is required, you’ll find
them something special—something
out of the ordinary. Keep a tin or
two in the house for emergencies, j
Your grocer sells them.
“Eddyson”: Brother Veal came to be cele-
brated as the Prophet of Waddy, and was the most
successful performer I have ever known. In fact,
“Willyum” Yeal was the only prophet I have seen
in active operation, and the only one I have record
of who had sufficient faith in his ability to give an
early time and an adjacent place in throwing off a
prediction, so that his contemporaries could put
the chronometer on him and time him to the tick.
Other prophets required illimitable space to turn in,
and dated their prophecies away beyond all reason,
so that they could only be proved liars when they
were dead, and it didn’t matter. Brother “Will-
yum” Veal was not a prophet in what you would
call a large way, but for a couple of years he had
Waddy licked, and was an object of awe when he
stirred abroad. It was not a healthy thing to
awaken the righteous resentment of “Willyum.” When
the prophet disagreed with a man or a family he
always worked himself into a state of frenzy in the
little hump-backed Wesleyan Bethel on the hill on
the following Sunday, and discovered trouble for the
objects of his resentment, and the trouble was never
overdue. Brother Veal might not mention names
when in the course of a frothy and intemperate
prayer ; coming events were expounded, but he indi-
cated the party due for affliction so clearly that no
doubts remained. Just’s red cow was killed follow-
ing a specific prophecy by Brother Veal. Brother
Veal indicated that for Johnson’s contumacy his
stable would be burnt, and Johnson’s stable was
burnt. “Willyum” discovered that Crowther was
proud and perverse, that his charges for vegetables
during a local famine were exorbitant and ungodly,
and promised a visitation to Crowther’s crop on or
before the 18th. On the night of the 17th half the
goats of Waddy got through miraculous breakages in
Crowther’s fence, and laid his cabbages waste. When
Veal made a most circumstantial prophecy respect-
ing terrible danger by water to Dan Anthony, who
was never known to come into contact with water
by accident or design, there was some little derision
in Waddy ; but on the following night, Dan, in a very
drunken state, was fished from the Native Youth
dam; and couldn’t remember how he came to be
there, though he imagined that he was shoved. Veal’s
stock went up sky-high. Probably a score of pro-
phecies came true before “Willyum,” roused to
righteous fury by the action of Scammel in under-
bidding him for a carting contract, predicted, with
much holy fervor, disasters to “They horses of they
wicked and ungodly sinner that taketh away they
living of they righteous!” Then Scammel sat up
and watched his paddock, and caught Brother “Will-
yum” Veal with a sickle, trying to hock his grey
mare. This aroused suspicion, but for lack of
witnesses nothing was done. Later, “Willyum,”
having predicted a loss of corn to fall upon Hodges
for his contempt of the Sabbath, was taken red-
handed at night with his dray loaded with five bags
of oats from Hodges’ barn, and the career of the
most accurate prophet of the century ended in
goal.” “Never prophecy unless you know” should
be supplemented with “Never prophecy unless you
can do it.”
DRIVEN TO DRINK.
THE SOBER ONE (shocked): “Good gracious,
what's wrong with you?”
THE UNSORER ONE (almost tearfully): “Been
drove to it by fam'ly calamity. Got tele-
gram from brother Jim this morning ’bout
brother Will. Said , ‘ Will run over by
midday train.' Ordered (hie) coffin tor
Will in case he wash dead. Ordered (hie)
dinner for Jim in case he wash cornin’.
Then had drink to (hie) drown my misery.
It'sh (hie) complicated position. 'Fraid
I’m an orphan.”
“Mr. Ocky” : When a dog lies down to go
to sleep, does he doze off straight away? If somebody
could give me a definite answer the world would have
a brighter aspect for me. At school, years ago, J
put the matter to a teacher, and was threatened with
■expulsion, simply because he thought I was asking
a variation of the “Why does a piece of string?’’ or
“When does a mouse if it climbs?” enigmas. I
cannot stand it much longer. Take any given dog
which wants to have a nap. It coils up, closes its
optics, and is asleep—apparently. I want to know
if it is asleep right off the mark, or does it count
imaginary sheep jumping over a stile? Do dogs
suffer from insomnia? The question is not beyond
some of your writers, so in the name of Heaven
please print this par, and let somebody decide the
point. Nobody here seems to know, and I must find
out.
A LITERAL READING.
YANKEE EVANGELIST (hearing of somebody's death): “Yes, we are indeed here to-day and
gone to-morrow.”
AUSTRALIAN H OTELKEEPER: “The deuce you are! Then you'll just settle your bill
to-night. ”
“Tiaki”; Re “Te Ruruku’s” par on to-
hungas (B. 26/9/’l2). There are many and various
methods by which the medicine
man or woman extorts his or her
fees from a superstitious and be-
lieving clientele. The old method
was to pluck a tassel from the
victim’s cloak, or (better still)
obtain a piece of discarded
fowl, of (best of all) sneak
a lock of his hair. The goods ob-
tained were buried to the accom-
paniment of ghostly incantations,
and, as they decayed, the wasting
away of Henare proceeded at
overtime rates. Now, however,
civilisation has made its de-
mands, and, as Shakspeare has it,
-'wizards know their times.” The
modern medicine man is discard-
ing the obsolete hair-burying or
-raising methods. He intimates
casually that he is a “pakeha
doctor” not yet in possession of
his diploma. He writes out
simple prescriptions, which are
made up by the local chemist as
he thinks fit. Sometimes Meri
has to be hurried off to: the local
hospital or cemetery as a result
of the dusky doctor’s diagnosis.
It is always a difficult thing to
get a conviction against a to-
hunga, as even the nearest re-
lations of a defunct Henare re-
fuse to “shelf” the medico.
Whisky, used in small doses ex-
ternally and in large (very large)
doses internally, is the favorite
lotion. Taking it by and large,
Tamata Tohunga has discarded
the curse for the cure business, the latter being much
more profitable and in greater demand. Unfortu-
nately, cheap female labor has been playing havoc
with the tohunga profession of late, and Henare will
need a scale of fees or working award or union or
something to regulate things shortly if the scab ele-
ment is not eliminated.
“Yarrum” : Have you witnessed the wood
duck taking its children for a swim? These birds
build their nests in high trees, always close to water,
and, before the young ones are able to fly, they are
carried down, one at a time, from the nest in the
bill of the mother, and toddle away for a dip, which
they relish immensely. On the return journey to
the nest, dad, who cleans out the humpy and tidies
ft up a bit while mother and the kids are away,
always lends a helping bill. The two parents take
hold, one at each side, of the tips of a duckling’s
wings, and flutter up into the tree with it, At a dam
t’other side of Narrandera (N.S.W.), I used to lie in
a quiet spot and watch the birds by the hour. With
my gun, that was with me every time, I might easily
have murdered whole families of them ; but my con-
science wouldn’t hear of it. Besides, there was
always mutton, and plenty of good, fat beef at the
homestead.
“Chloe”: The barking spider, mentioned
on the “Ked Page” (B. 29/8/’l2), is fairly common
on the central gold fields, and throughout the tropical
portions of West Australia. This contradictory in-
sect has some curious habits. The male of the spe-
cies seems to live on the ground, while the female
spins a very large and intricate web, which she sus-
pends from bough to bough of a tree. When she
desires a mate, she gives an acrobatic performance
on the silk ropes by which her home is suspended,
accompanying her gymnastics by the grating bark,
noticed by Professor Baldwin Spencer. Presumably
the lady spider is an emotional insect, for she is
quite devoid of modesty when she is courting. She
pirouettes, somersaults, spins rapidly on her head, and
then on each leg in turn. She can also keep her
understandings whirling like Catherine wheels, then
leap off her nose and land lightly on her ears. All
this is done to attract the notice of the eligible
male, and you bet it does! After one or more such
displays, the desired, mate appears on the scene. But
he is not precipitate. He adopts a critical attitude
and inspects the dazzling dancer through opera-
glasses, with his crush hat pushed far back on his
head. Of course, he eventually falls a victim to love,
or curiosity, or both, and ascends the tight rope.
His subsequent history is veiled in mystery, for, in
the space of half an hour he has vanished utterly, and
the police are completely in the dark. Clearly he
cannot descend, for his spouse cuts away the
rope as soon as he reaches her. She folds him in her
many legs, and that is the last you see of him. In-
deed, the onlooker might convince himself that the
adventurous lover was a myth, a creature born of
liver and defective eyesight, if it were not that a
young family arrives very soon on the fatherless
scene. A scientist, not more untruthful than others
of his calling, told me that the lady spider being
a capricious creature, has no more use for a hus-
band after the first few moments; and having eco-
nomic principles, she promptly makes a meal of him,
to save post-mortems, and funeral expenses. This
might not be correct. All I know is that he disap-
pears, and the lady of the web house wears a gorged
look, and does no more acrobatic feats until she de-
cides to marry again. The scientist mentioned also
that Nature had been especially kind to female
spiders, in that she gave each an opportunity of ac-
quiring four husbands, young spiders arriving in
those proportions of the sexes. Probably through
untold ages, female «spiders have entirely devoted
themselves to the studies of eugenics and gymnastics.
* * * *
The shearer’s cook has a few words with
the Boss:—■
. “Yairs,_ sir ; rumatiz v’ry bad—hawful pain.. Never
slep a wink, an’ wot wiv cookin’ f’r these hanimals,
it’s enuf t’ upend ’ny man. Jest look at that”
(indicating assaulted jam tin) “PIGS! ! ! ’OGS ! !, I
calls ’em. But o’ corse wiv a good cook th’ men’s
bound t’ ’ave happatites. My motter is ‘fill ’em
hup. I gives it to ’em ’ot an’ strong, an’ arter a
few days they sort o’ get a store laid in. Then one
gits a bit o’ peace.
“These ’ere shearers aren’t a bad lot, but hall th’
time wiv them it’s sheep, sheep, sheep, an’ ’ow many
they c’n shore ’n a day. Jest wait till they’ve ’ad a
leed, then y ears ’em skite ; men as knows nothin’
o th world. But th’ rousies are me greatest trial;
some of ’em haven’t th’ sense of n’anennv watch.
Now, yisterd y—-y’ don’t mind me talkin’, sir—that
youngster comes along smokin’ ’is beastly little
cigarette. I knows wat ’e’ll do. I watches ’im
There, 1- SPITS. HOUT ’E GOES ! I won’t ’ave no
one desercratin’ ray flooers. An’ I’m no respecker of
persons neither. If th’ King wus t’ come an’ spit ’n
my kitchen, HOUT ’e’d go too ! Aw, aw ; there’s th’
rummatiz agin, an’ th’ stoo bilin’ over. Hall yer
troubles come ’t onct.”
(A handy pannikin of stale tea descends on the
flames. WHOOSH! Steam and ashes stop conver-
sation for a space, and the fire subsides.)
“As yer say, there’s a good many helements, so ter
speak, in that stoo. I always collee’s discarded hed-
ibles in this little tin an’ then dishes ’em up jist as
sav’ry ’s y’ like. No waste a’ tall, an’ yer con-
science kep’ rejoovenated, f’r y’ mus’ know, sir, that
’n every religion waste’s th’ greatest sin.
“There’s one chop as I can’t account for, and I
suspects th’ dorg, f'r I sees a likely-looking bone
protrooding from 'is kennel. ’S Julius Cassar onced
sed ’n one of ’is campaigns, arter ’aving redooced ’is
men t’ th’ smell o’ th’ proverbial iled rag, ‘Th’ great
hai’t ’n cookin’ is t’ make somethink hout o’ nothink.’
T’ wich I adds, ‘Han.vone c’n cook ’f they ’as th’
ingreedyments.’
“ ’Spose I’ll ’ave t’ go hup t’ th’ store agin ter-
day. We’n’sd’ys they gen’ally ’as ’nawful ’unger;
but they’re like th’ wimmen, y’ can’t ’ardly tell wot
they want, an’ ter-day they mightn’t eat ’arf wot
they orter.
“D’y think, sir, that th’ shearers would objec’ ter
givin’ me a little hextra remooneration f’r ekenomi-
cal cookin’ ? I’m shur you’d bear yor share, sir.
“Sorry to ’ear that’s yor verdic’, sir. Can’t hex-
pect genuosity fr’m them shearers, they’re too bizzy
wurkin’ f’r th’ publican t’ remember th’ pore ole
cook.”
“Pick” : A momentous question that might
engage the whole range of theological expert evi-
dence for elucidation has cropped up at Gundaroo,
N.S.W. There an unfortunate, full up of life, took
matters into his own hands and passed himself out.
He was duly claimed by his own sect, but, being a
suicide, it was deemed indecent to plant the remains
where sacred worms could feast upon them, and a
grave was therefore dug in any old place outside
the pale of dedicated earth. Later, however, when
a new boundary fence for the bone-yard was being
erected, all interested were horrified to find that the
line separating the consecrated from the unblessed
area passed fairly across the mound under which the
departed nark lay, and that his head and shoulders
were trespassing, so to speak, on Bishop-blessed soil,
while his lower limbs only occupied their rightful
place in unhallowed clay. It is here that the theo-
logical question rises or writhes or contorts or
something. What is going to happen when the
archangel blows his motor-horn to announce that the
resurrection has arrived at Gundaroo? Will a leg-
less candidate for entry at the Pearly Gates soar up
through the clouds of judgment, or will those un-
consecrated legs be powerful enough to carry the
sanctified parts down to perdition? It is a nice
point, and the whole thing seems to turn on the
actual tug-of-war capabilities of a Bishop’s blessing
and the natural drawing force of Hades.
A BREAKING-IN EPISODE.
GINGER (on top of prancing steed): “My oath,
I'll get mashed hup if 'e chucks me orf. ”
F ATTY: “Rats! ’E wouldn't ’urt a fly! Yer
ain’t sure ter beeum saveloy meat, an' then
agen yer ain’t sure not ter neither, har
yer!"
“Crookspinf : It happened at a sunny
Victorian fishing- town. Two fellows, of the line and
bait profession, one an Irishman and the other a
Chow, were having a game of cards in the shelter-
shed at the end of the pier. It was night, and they
were gravely passing and trumping by the light of
a dimly-burning lantern. One of the lads padded
softly along from his boat with a large and flabby
octopus he had just taken from the nets. Being as
curious as most people are in a slow town, he peeped
in to see what was the cause of the devotional mut-
tering in the shed, and discovered the solemn gam-
blers. They were fathoms deep in play when a mass
of frozen jelly spreadeagled through the air, and,
making a cannon off the yellow, landed with a sicken-
ing squelch on the cards. As the staggered Hibernian
rescued the cards and the startled Chow wiped from
his brow the flakes of cold sea spume, a malicious
snigger of delight was heard, and, the pair looking
up, observed the best fighter on the beach grinning
at them. It was no good offering battle, and they
knew it. But the Chow remarked in a low wail,
“And he calls himself a Clistian!” Patrick, for his
part, swallowed his mouthful of deadly insults, and
moaned in a terribly earnest way, “Be Gud, if it
had happened in Port Milbourne the row would have
lashted a fortnight!”


It has been ascertained that the
Czareivich’s injuries were caused
by falling off a mast. His tutor,
distracted by the accident, committed
suicide.—2nd cable.
The CjMirewich has been seriously injured,
while on a yachting cruise with his father,
by falling off a cupboard.—lst cable.
The Patient: “Well, Doctor, what have you decided shall be the matter
With me to-day?”
Doc.: “Hum! Can’t make up my mind till 1 consult
It has been reported that the Czarewich's injuries were caused by an
Anarchist, who took a pot-shot at him as <he sailed in his pa’s yacht up the
Neva Neva.—3rd cable.
It is now known beyond a doubt
that the Czarewich was injured by a
■wheelbarrow in the hands of the
Chief Stoker, who would not look
where he was a-coming to.
—Cable No. 4,
/
<
/
V
/
/
/
✓
/
jF
/
.
V*V
V
V
<s*
«*
It now transpires that the Czare-
wich’s tutor did not commit suicide
along of the Czarewich’s accident, but
of a disappointment in Love.
—Cable No. 5.
It has now been definitely ascertained that the
Czarewich was injured bv the ship’s grindstone,
which he was playing with. He had often been
cautioned against this grindstone; but boys will bd
boys.—Latest cable. / /
THE CABLE AND THE CZAREWICH.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY,
PERFECT PURITY.
å
WORLD-FAMED
Fo*-
QUALITY
For
DURABILITY.
REXONA.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned oint-
ments, which are very _ slow in their, action, Rexona
speedily effects its relief after a very few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.
Obtainable everywhere.*
The temptation of the Hat feminine has never been
more sumptuously shrined than in Farmer’s (Pitt
Street, Sydney) new show rooms. A carpet, soft as
velvet, leads up to the besetting weakness of every
self-respecting woman—the New Hat. A discreet
bow-window-seat is reserved for the attendant swain
—husband, brother, father or fiance.. Huge glass
cases (dust proof) contain the adorable headgear
which Every woman wants to complete her happi-
ness. _ Off the palatial hattery are the new hair-
dressing rooms, presided over by a smiling goddess,
gowned in silky black draperies. At her command
assisting nymphs, expert in the art of face massage,
marcel waving, shampooing and other beauty-making
devices, come forth from tiny toilet rooms, and turn
mere hair into a crowning glory. When the triumph-
ant coiffure, soft and silky, is achieved, its owner
glows with that sense of perfect peace which only
grows beneath a well-groomed head. She puts on
her hat —the event of the adjoining rooms—ob-
serves the soft texture of her massaged complexion,
and retires to digest her content and morning tea
(11 a.m. edition do luxe) in Farmer’s roof-garden.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
N.S.W.
GO VERNOR
CHELMS-
FORD,
Ready to say
Good-bye.
SOUTH AUS. TRAVELLER’S OPINION.
Change of water and food often cause colic and
diarrhoea, and when Mr. F. Bannister, traveller for
Menz and Co., Adelaide (S.A.), is attacked with
either of these complaints he takes Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy. In a recent letter he
states: “Having suffered severely from colic, I have
much pleasure in informing you that. Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy has on several occasions
given me instant relief, and I always carry it with
me.”*
Oscar Wilde received respectful mention
in a Bishop’s sermon the other Sunday. The
preacher was Dr. Mercer, of Hobart, who
recalled that Wilde once said: “A man has
to be a long time dead before he is con-
sidered a saint. I am afraid I shall never
be sufficiently dead.”
“Adelaide”: _ About the “low-comedy
parents,” who give a child a grotesque name
as “a handy mark for their mirth” (B.
10/10/’l2). An Adelaide examination list
lately showed a quaint conceit. The parents
bore the name of Halfpenny. That they
couldn’t help; but they had wantonly
labelled the poor kid “Glorious.”
November birthdays: Prof. Skeats,
37 on the Ist; Simpson Newland, ex-Treas.
of S.A., 77, and Victor Trumper, 37 on the
2nd; Atlee Hunt, of the Home Affairs De-
partment, 48 on the 7th; Colonel Reay, 54,
and President Stirling (S.A.), 63 on the
9th; Sam Mauger, 55 on the 12tli; William
McMillan, 62, and Steele Rudd, 44, on the
14th ; Gov.-Gen 38 on 16th ; Sena-
tor Guthrie, 55 on the 17th; Archbishop
O’Reily, 66 on the 19tli; Dr. Creed, 70 on
the 21st; ex-Justice G. B. Simpson (N.S.W.),
74 on. the 22nd ; Archbishop Clarke, 62 on
the 23rd; ex-Senator Dobson, 71 on the
•24th; Rabbi Boas (Adelaide), 68, and ex-
Senator Playford, 75, on the 25th; Statis-
tician R. M. Johnstone (Tas.), 68, and
Health President Ramsay Smith (S.A.), 53,
on the 27th.
Prom the Oldest Inhabitant:—
An application to bring under the R.P. Act a big
area in the Windsor district, some of it granted
originally to James Larra, calls to mind one or two
ancient families. The progenitors of the Bowmans,
who are the applicants, came out in 1798 with the
first free settlers. They took up ground first at
Liberty Plains (Rookwood now), but soon after left
for the Hawkesbury district. Larra was a very early
comer, a Jew, who kept an hotel at Parramatta.
He was the first auctioneer , there, and was one of
the liquidators of the estate of Lieut. William Cox,
of the 102nd Regiment, who, over-speculating, had
to make an assignment which was a nine days won-
der. Simeon Lord was the liquidator at the Sydney
end. Larra was the auctioneer of the farms, the sale
being held at Parramatta. Fifteen farms were sold,
including the one originally owned by George Bar-
rington, the literary pickpocket. That farm, by the
way, was purchased by Parson Marsden. After that
Cox became a Government contractor; the road
across the Blue Mountains, from Emu Ford to the
Macquarie, was one of his jobs.
Dean O’Hea, so often mentioned of late in
connection with Coburg ( Vic.), made his pile
mostly by land specs. When the diggings
“broke out,” every little cocky who had
enough land to grow “a few spuds” sold to
the Dean, who really did not want the soil,
but could not refuse his neighbors, who were
hot on getting off to “make a pot.” The
Dean . agitated for a change of name from
Pentridge to Coburg, because the would-be
humorists asserted that the majority of his
riverince’s parishioners were in Pentridge.
An opportunity offered for change when the
Duke of Edinburgh visited Australia in 1868.
Brunswick, adjoining Pentridge. is mostly
supposed to be named after the Duke killed
at Waterloo. This is, however, probably an
error. In Melbourne in the late ’3o’s and
early ’4o’'s, there was a certain Captain
George Brunswick Smyth, after whom the
main street in Fitzroy was named, and after
whom the suburb also was probably named.
In any case, the Duke of Edinburgh was heir
to the Dukedom of Coburg, and the suggested
coupling of Brunswick and Coburg was, no
doubt, the more readily agreed to on that
account.
Kiamil Pasha, the “grand old” Turk, who
is trying to gather up the tattered remains
of what was once the Sublime Porte, is
nearly 90. The “Arabian Nights” is no-
thing to bis career. He has held high office,
and has been a fugitive—in a palace one
day and driving a cab for a living the’
next. When Abd til - the-Not-T et-Damn ed was
booted off the throne by the more or less Young
(and Foolish) Turk party, old Kiamil was
dug up from his damp hiding-place, and
made vizier. Like a number of Levantines,
he has Jewish blood in his Turkish veins,
and is a linguist, speaking Arabic, Persian,
Hindostanee, Greek. English and French.
He is likewise a famous pistol shot, a
freethinker and an incorrigible. Liberal. Old
Abdul Hamid used, when Kiamil was his
vizier, to signify his royal displeasure with
the vizier by tugging him by the beard. This
the vizier frustrated by shaving cffian—-a
simple device which even Sherlock Holmes
might not have been ashamed to father.
More old land-grabbers and pubs:—
Many years ago one Captain Piper was connected
with the official life of N. S. Wales. Point Piper
was named after him, and there was a pub in Lower
George-street which hung out a shingle in his honor.
A daughter of his married a lieutenant in the navy
named Alfred Thrupp, Who—through Piper’s in-
fluence, no doubt—obtained a grant of-700 acres ,on
the north side, fof .Sydney harbor. Captain Piper’s
affairs became involved open house, horse racing,
etc. —and a surrender , of his estate became necessary.
The original Daniel Cooper, the founder' of the for-
tunes .of . The family, , acouired Point Piper, while
W. C. Wentworth got hold of Vaucluse, and Captain
Piper went over the hills to Bathurst, and became a
dairy farmer. Thrupp’s 700 acres also presently fell
into the hands of Dan Coouer, who, like Sam Terry
and Simeon Lord, was a great land-grabber. In 1853
this Dan Cooper died in London, and left the 700-
acre grant to John Cooper, a nephew, who is still
living. Until the ’7o’s, the estate (which is bounded
on the south by Neutral Bay, Hungry Bav and ad-
jacent waters, and on the north by Middle Harbor
generally) was cut up into huge blocks and let on
lease at low rentals to Louis Bevdon, W. H. Paling.
John Bennett, Henry Parkes (who mortgaged his and
lost it), Captain Barron, Captain Craig, E. O.
Moriarty and others. The land-tax is now giving
him hints to sell his interests, and mostly the lessees
have purchased their holdings. On Saturday last a
part of one of these old leases was brought under the
hammer. E. O. Moriartv, Engineer-in-Chief, used to
hold it, but W. P. Faithful- acquired it about seven
years ago. On Saturday he offered nine lots, of an
average of about 40ft. each, with an approximate
depth of 200 ft. from the harbor’s water edge. Several
of the frontages were sold at £2O per foot. Beauti-
ful unearned increment!
THE RE-APPEARANCE.
THE MAN WHO VOTED FOR McGOWEN:
“’ Struth! I thought that chap was dead!"
Pathetic, though humorous, was Allan
Moore’s comment when the Melbourne Judge
sentenced him to death for missing Geoff
Syme with a Browning. As his Honor
gently fitted on the black cap, Moore, though
he knew well enough what was coming, softly
whistled “Where did you get that hat?”
Died at Mildura, Elliott Crozier, aged 85,
one of the ancients of the Crozier squatting
clan. He owned Cowra station for many
years, and then went in for fruit growing,
lie left 13 children, and great is their mana
in the Lower Darling and Murray district.
Through marriage the clan now includes
Ben Chaffey, of Moorna, a large cannon in
pastoral circles in these days.
N.S.W.'s JOY-DAY.
“ Say, doss, wot's orl the cheerin' about?"
“ What! Don't you know? Why, that's Mr.
Wade going away to Japan."
“Say, boss, they seem to be mighty glad to get
rid of ’im! ”
A feature of the most sensational Ameri-
can Presidential campaign on record was the
sudden death of J. S. Sherman, Vice-Presi-
dent, in the midst of his hustle for re-elec-
tion on the Republican ticket. The Vice-
President doesn’t cut much ice in Yankee
politics, though the occupant is sometimes
hurled into the Presidency, as Roosevelt was
when McKinley was shot. Sherman is, per-
haps, best known to the outside world as
the author of the Anti-Trust Act. In accord-
ance with American custom, this statute took
the name of its sponsor, and is generally
known as the “Sherman Law.” After view-
ing the results, probably a better name
would be the Sherman Flaw.
THE TURKEY
TROT.
Did you ever have a headache that simply wouldn’t
stop? Tried everything with no result? But nqt
Stearns’ Headache Cure. Try it next time.*
Died at Millicent
(S.A.), Peter, one of
the Sutherland broth-
ers so prominent in
the south - west dis-
trict. The three yoUiig
Scotchmen landed at
Port Adelaide in 1866
With a pohnd between
them. They made n
bit with pick and
shovel, and a bit more
at contracting; then
put it all into land.
Queensland would
have had them all,
about 30 years ago,
only they could not
get a bid for their S.A.
holding, and had to
stick to it. After that
the tide turned. The
Sutherlands started,
and helped to run the
South Eastern
Times, hold a lot of
city property in Sydney, and lately started
cutting up a big estate at Parkes (N.S.W.).
Chicago Examiner, of September 12, has
a portrait of “Lady and Sit George Reid,”
under the heading, “Nobleman and Wife.”
The lady told the American iiewspeople
(“while Sir George took his cflstomary
nap”) that she is so domestic that “she
would rather bake a nlum pudding than
attend a reception at Court.’* She refused
to give an opinion oh women’s suffrage
(while “Sir George opeiied one eye with
a wink and a nod”) and said she didn’t dis-
like society. “But, you know,” she added,
“when one has a kenUei pf beautiful dogs
and some really fine horses ofie has but little
time for society.” The nobleman and Wife
have returned to England.
“Hullo” : I don’t like to be unkind to an
old friend, but I think that the accession of
Yoshihito to the throne of Japan won’t do
us any good. A German author who knows
Yosh nearly as well as I do states
that he is “the yellow peril incar-
nate.” His policy will be that
Japan must westernise less and
Nipponise more. As Crown Prince
his standpoint was a veiled hos-
tility to things European. As
Mikado his job will be to see that
Japan, having learnt what civili-
sation can teach, will dismiss her
tutors and start out with her
army and navy. The little chap
who now occupies the Japanese
throne is not a son of the late
Mikado by a primary wife; and his
mother enjoys no royal rank
and practically no social position.
They do these things differentlv in
Y osh’s country. For the rest, ho
prays three times a day. and has a
hot. bath before beginning his de-
votions. His wife, whom I have
not the honor of knowing, has “no
arms and no legs”—from a dressmaker’s
point of view. A European lady in the Im-
perial suite has the job of initiating her into
modern dress and the corset; but the result
so far is discouraging.
3 here has been some talk of Archbishop
Carr returning to Galway when his coadju-
tor, Dr. Mannix, arrives, end gets his hand
in. But Dr. Carr says he means to die in
Melbourne; so the talk is stifled. The as-
sistant will be parish priest of North Mel-
bourne (Ilotham) till he “succeeds,” if he
ever does.
Dr. Keenan, a man of much bulk, and
pretty well known as a Masonic chaplain,
died suddenly in Sydney last week. Origin-
ally an R.C. priest, he ’verted to the Church
of England, but confined his attention chiefly
to scholastic work; for years he was head-
master of the Windsor Grammar School. A
couple of years ago'he visited England, and
the struggle to. speak in sufficiently awed
whispers of his interview with the King pro-
bably killed him.
Dropped out of the scuffle of life
last week, at Wellington (M.L.),
VN nliam Jukes _ Steward, politician,
journalist and indifferent writer of
tame odes. He followed the Inky
vvay, as editor or owner of several
M.L. papers, for over 30 years, and
from 1871 till his death he was mostly
'npoliDca l harness. During the year's
1891-93 he was Speaker of the Repre-
sentatives, and until last year was
the “Father of the House.” Then he
dropped out of the Reps., and was
given a corner in the other House.
As a legislator lie meant well, and as
a poet he did likewise ; but his kindly,
gentle spirit balanced the deal. lie
was 71 when Death called round for him.
The new Bishop of Kimberley, Dr. Gore
Browne, is a Maorilander, and has a high
opinion of the country where the principal
unnatural resource is the lou. He is a son
of Col. Thomas Gore Browne, who was
Governor of M.L. from 1855 to 1861.
Talking of fancy names a Bulletin con-
tributor the other week reckoned he had in-
vented one —Shmith. Now H. W. Shmith
writes from Melbourne to say that he is one
of a Victorian grown family of 14 Shmiths.
and has two little Shmiths of his own; and
he can “vouch for the fact that the B. is
read by at least a dozen Shmiths every
week.” By the way, The Bulletin ob-
serves that Mr. Shmith is a hop merchant.
THE IGNORANCE OF COHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is asserted in the City that the loan has proved
a failure, and that the underwriters have been com-
pelled to take up from 70 to 90 per cent, of the
amount. This disappointing result is attributable to
the general ignorance that prevails with regard to
the resources of N.'S. Wales, arid to the absence of
publicity in connection with the loan. —Cable item.
The lack of knowledge which prevails
In Cohen’s shop beyond the sea
About this State of New South Wales
Shocks and appals and frightens me.
I am amazed they should not know
How crowds in George-street come and go.
I sometimes shudder when I hear
That, in the land where loans should float,
The people living far and near
Know nothing of the Manly boat,
And most in ignorance remain
Of such a suburb as Balmain. -
They never heard of Neutral Bay,
Of Parramatta, Glebe or Kyde,
Nor how the Coogee surf is gay,
Nor how the Lane Cove waters glide;
If these, or some of them, they knew,
They’d rush to cash our I O U.
We have some country at the back —
At least, some people tell us so —
Some pubs along that outer track
Where grain and wool and mutton grow ;
If these old Cohen should despise.
Our men of State might -sympathise.
But here, where boundless wealth is pent,
Our splendid heritage within,
Where bricks produce a crop of rent,
Such lack of knowledge seems like sin—
If Ultimo itself were known,
Cohen would rush us with a loan.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


W/Mj
/
V
X
X
5/ //
y T&
S,
s
77-
K>
Xi
\\
1
icoi^jr
OT-Jl
4
i
_ n—
ON THE FAVORITE.
“Can you give me a good tip, Charlie?”
"Yes, smoke nothing but THREE CASTLES.’


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS."
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
ORE BUYERS.
Cash Advances Made Against Consignments.
CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED.
EDWARDS’ ORE REDUCTION COMPANY
HEAD OFFICE: SEBASTOPOL, BALLARAT.
Cable Address : “ PYRITIC,” BALLARAT. f 2
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Bank of Australasia
(Melbourne) :
Divs. on To Re- Re-
Profits. All Shares. serves, serves.
Sept., 1904.. £18,287 5 p.c. =£10,967 £7,320 £70,083
Mar., 1005.. 19,320 5 „ „ 10,967 8,353 78,436
Sept., 1905.. 18,314 5 ~ „ 10,977 7,337 85,773
Mar., 1906.. 19,405 5 „ „ 10,982 8,423 94,196
Sept., 1906.. 19,578 6 ~ „ 13,178 6,400 100,596
Mar., 1907.. 22,086 6 ~ ~ 13,178 8,908 109,504
Sept., 1907.. 19,532 6 ~ ~ 13,178 6,354 115,858
Mar., 1908.. 23,205 6 ~ ~ 13,178 10,027 125,885
f 23,501. 6 „ „ 13,178)
Sept., 1908.. -f Voted for Provident J- 323 126,20 S
I Fund, a 10,000 J
Mar., 1909.. 22,710 7 p.c. = 15,375 7,335 133,543
Sept., 1909.. 19,293 7 „ „ 15,375 3,918 137,461
Mar., 1910.. 23,417 7 ~ ~ 15,375 8,042 145,513
Sept., 1910.. 23,509 7 ~ ~ 15,375 8,134 153,637
Mar., 1911.. 23,708 7 ~ ~ 15,375 8,333 161,970
Sept., 1911.. 24,626 7 ~ ~ 15,375 9,251 171,221
Mar., 1912.. 27,864 7 „ „ 15,375 12,489 183,710
Sept., 1912.. 27,932 7 „ „ 15,375 12,557 196,267
As usual lately, £lOOO has been voted to the
Officers’ Provident Fund, and the amount has been
deducted from profits before dropping them on to the
table. The figures, generally speaking, show a dis-
tinct improvement on those of a few years back.
The invariable complaint then was that too great a
proportion of the profits was being cut up among the
shareholders. The lay-by is now very much more
substantial: in the past 12 months it has reached
45 p.c. of the net earnings, and no brick can be
thrown at that. Still, the aggregate reserves are
small. The assets of one sort and another total
£4,856,667, and, as shown above, there is only
£196,267 in the stocking; and it wouldn’t have to
be anything very sensational in slumps to clout more
than £196,267 off the value of nearly £5,000,000
worth of securities. No doubt there may be internal
reserves ; but you can’t take that for granted. If
there are none, then there isn’t very much to protect
the capital in case of trouble. Therefore, in spite of
the recent increase of profits, the management ought
to set its face against the smallest increase in the rate
of dividend. It will be quite time enough for that
when the reserves are twice as strong as they are at
present in proportion to the bank’s risks.
The 12 months’ movements are shown next: —
Sep., ’ll. Sept., T 2.
Notes in circulation.. £39,799 £23,696 Dee. £16,103
Bills in circulation, etc. 239,027 386,736 Inc. 147,709
Free deposits.. ..1,387,826 1,442,121 Inc. 54,295
Deposits at interest.. 2,401,797 2,352,192 Dec. 49,605
Liquid assets.. .. 1,334,531 1,422,259 Inc. 87,728
Advances .. .. 3,145,503 3,226,404 Inc. 80,901
Premises etc. .. 215,294 208,003 Dec. 7,291
The position hasn’t changed very much during the
year. The Colonial owes £4,204,745, and has
£1,422,259 in cash and liquid assets; that is
to say, it could pay 34 p.c. of its borrowings on the
nail. The holding is nothing extra—just about what
is usually regarded as safe, with no margin worth
mentioning. Lots of people are asking what the
banks mean by shutting down on new advances so
hard. As a matter of fact, some of them simply
haven’t got the money. A heap of cash certainlv
has come in during the long run of good seasons anil
high prices; but it has gone out very fast too. Look
at this bank’s record for seven years
Proportion of
Advances to
Liabilities. Advances. Liabilities.
Sept., 1905 £2,723,378 £2,246,844 82 p.c.
Sept., 1912 4,204,745 3,226,404 77 p.c.
In proportion to liabilities—that is to say, to the
public’s money available for lending out, etc. —the
Colonial seven years ago had about 28 p.c. of liquid
assets, which was certainly not enough; it has now
something under 34 p.c., which certainly isn’t more
than enough. If most Australian banks deserve a
kick, it is not for lending too little now, but for
lending so much during the past few years that they
have exhausted their means to lend at present.
The bank’s business appears to be very profitable.
This shows the earnings calculated on capital and
reserves combined:—
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., 1909 £8 0 7 p.c. Mar., 1911 £8 0 0 p.c.
Sept., 1909 6 14 8 „ Sept., 1911 8 3 10 „
Mar., 1910 8 2 4 „ Mar., 1912 9 2 6
Sept., 1910 8 0 9 „ Sept., 1912 8 19 4 „
Nine p.c. or thereabouts is good; but two things
have to be kept in mind: (1) the bank has nearly
£7 of the public’s money in the business for every
£1 of its own, and that £7 has to be paid back
no matter how bad a knock the securities may get
(that is to say, the securities in which the bank
risks it) ; and (2) the bank has lent out or otherwise
invested all but 34 p.c. of the public’s money, so
that its risks are considerable.
National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 3J p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
Mar., 1905.. £36,130 £20,868 £7644 £7,618 £121,887
4 p.c.
5ept.,1905.. 36,104 23,849 7644 4,611 126 49S
Mar., 1906.. 41,144 23,849 7644 9,651 136,’149
4£ p.c.
Sept., 1906.. 44,982 26,830 7644 10,508 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907.. 48,158 29,811 7644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907.. 49,943 29,811 7644 12,488 169,848
Mar., 1908.. 42,305 29,811 7644 4,850 174,698
Sept., 1908.. 49,017 29,811 7644 11,562 186 260
Mar., 1909.. 59,170 29,811 7644 21,715 207,975
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
Sept., 1909.. 59,390 35,773 9173 14,444 222 419
Mar., 1910.. 60,564 35,773 9173 15,618 238,’037
5ept.,1910.. 60,392 35,773 9173 15,446 253 453
Mar., 1911.. 66,815 35,773 9173 21,869 275,352
Sept., 1911.. 63,053 35,773 9173 18,107 293,459
Interna] reserves disclosed .. 35,000 328 459
Mar., 1912.. 77,104 35,773 9173 32,158 360617
Internal reserves di-closed .. 25,000 385 617
Sept., 1912.. 78,743 35,773 9173 33,797 419A14
If all the world were wise, and none of it ever lost
its head, there wouldn’t be any need for internal
reserves. If a bank made a heavy loss one half-
year, it would, under those happy conditions, simply
lop the amount off visible reserves previously accumu-
lated. But all the world isn’t wise; hence any such
lopping as that just mentioned would probably
stagger confidence and be very bad for the bank.
There are plenty of people who say that, even under
existing conditions, a bank is not entitled to put
anything up its sleeve; they argue that when it
makes a profit it is its duty to show that profit and
when it makes a loss it should show that loss. That
sounds all right; but unfortunately you can’t tell for
sure when you are making a profit, or, if you are
what it amounts to. A bank may think it is making
a heap of money just now out of its advance busf-
ness, because it has a lot of money out at high rates.
But when it adds the interest on to the principal, it
can’t be sure whether it will be able to collect that
interest, let alone the principal. The profit is there-
fore assumption, and it is a fair thins to put some of
it by to square matters, in case it should not be
possible to collect all the expected interest, or get in
all the lent-out capital.
Supposing years ago the bank lent Bhrown £lO,OOO
on the security of some land at Kensington. Bhrown
didn’t pa}' interest, but let it accumulate, and the
debt grew to £12,000. Then the bank took posses-
sion. Having an idea that the property might not
fetch £12,000, the bank started to drop some of its
earnings (undisclosed) into a secret reserve, upon
which it could draw in case it should presently have
to sell Bhrown’s old property for £9OOO. Obvi-
ously, if it didn’t have that fund, and sold for
£9OOO a property that cost £12,000, it would
have to take £3OOO off the half-year’s profits, though
the loss might not be, and actually would not be,
rightly chargeable against that half-year. That is
the merit of an internal reserve: it saves a half-
year from having to carry the transgressions of pre-
vious terms. But something else may happen. Say
£3OO has been put into the stocking to make good
the expected loss on the sale of that property. The
property is sold and brings in more than £1.2,000;
or, what more often happens, it is revalued at over
£12,000. In that case it will probably be re-
garded as unnecessary to retain the fund any longer,
and it is accordingly dropped in with the profit.
Something of this sort has evidently been taking
place in the National of Australasia, with the result
that in the past 12 months £60,000 has been shaken
out of the internal reserves into the visble funds.
The Bulletin is glad to know that the National’s
partly-new management feels so good about things,
though as there" is a slump in nrospect it is quite
possible that the management will vet be sorry that
it didn’t keep up its sleeve all it had there.
The next small table shows the principal changes
in 12 months:—
Liabilities.
Sep., 1911. Sep., 1912.
Notes in circulation.. £102,732 £52,4 d Dec. £50,241
Bills, etc 964.943 907,998 Bee. 56,945
Free d.posits.. .. 4,059,087 3,727,245 Dec. 361,842
Deposits at interest.. 6,558,595 6,794,553 Inc. 235,958
Assets.
Liquid assets.. .. 3,552,142 3,736,928 Inc. 184,786
Advances .. .. 9,550,754 9,273 439 Dec. 277,315
Premises, etc. .. 456,054 441,501 Dec. 14,583
That’s better. Even now, though the bank has ap-
parently been calling in money (anyway, its ad-
vances are over quarter of a million less than thev
were 12 months ago), it has only 32 p.c. of the
deposits and other public money represented by
liquid assets. The chief trouble about a bank which
works on such a narrow margin of coin, etc., is that,
especially if things don’t look too bright ahead, the
concern must often turn down good business olfered
by most desirable clients—probably old clients. It
may seem a waste of money to keep 45 p.c. (or
more) of the deposits, etc., in liquid form ; but that
sort of bank is usually getting excellent business
and making lifelong friends while the other fellow
is losing both.
Profits nowadays, calculated on capital and reserves
combined, are rather better than ordinary :
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., 1909.. £6 19 7 p.c. Mar., 1911.. £7 12 6 p.c.
Sept,., 1909.. 619 3 „ 5ept.,1911.. 7 2 2
Mar., 1910.. 7 0 8 ~ Mar., 1912.. 812 2
5ept.,1910.. 6 19 1 ~ 5ept.,1912.. 8 9 5 ”
The last figures suggest that there isn’t much un-
productive business left on the books. And a profit
Of £8 9s. sd. p.c. is all the better because the
National hasn’t the use (and therefore the risk) of
an excessive amount of money; there is iust under
£6 of the public’s in the business for every £1 of
the shareholders’.
* * * *
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in Sydney and
elsewhere, and do much of it on a time-payment
basis:—
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividend". not
✓ ' > reckoned
Pref. Written as an
Aug., Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. Off. Asset).
1905.. £49,039
1906. £30,656 £4954 7\ p.c. = £11,250 £1694 36,281
1907.. 33,279 6000 7J „ „ 11,250 2538 22,790'
1908.. 33,603 6000 8 ~ ~ 12,000 2971 10,158
Reserves.
1909.. 35,473 6542 8 ~ „ 12,712 2660 3,401
1910.. 39,640 7500 8 ~ ~ 14,000 3167 18,374
Insurance Fund dropped in, £1920 .. 20,294
1911.. 43.482 8250 8 p.c.= 15,000 2788 37,738
1912.. 51,430 9000 8 „,, 16,000 2946 61,222
But while profits have been growing fast, capital has
been growing too; so though more money has been
coming in, there have been more shareholders to
divide it amongst. The business is a fairly old one;
it was transferred to a limited-liability co. in 1902,
though the public wasn’t invited in till about four
years later. At that time (1906) the capital was
£250,000, half of that very large sum being neces-
sary to finance the time-payment part of the business.
With good times the trade grew, and a little over 12
months ago the capital was raised to £350,000:
£200,000 of it is in ordinary £1 shares, fully paid;
the balance in £lO pref. shares, which stop at 6
p.c., but are cumulative. The business has been ex-
ceedingly profitable, always assuming that stock and
book debts have not been over-valued; and a very
prudent policy has been followed in the cutting-up
of the profits. This shows what has happened in
the past five years:—
Paid away in divs. .. .. ..£107,004
Written off leaseholds, plant and fix-
tures 14,532
Put by, to reserves .. .. .. 84,012
Total profits £205,548
The profits there include the small insurance fund
which was not disclosed till two or three years ago,
and was no doubt mostly built up within the five-
year .period. Only 56 p.c. of the net profits (after
deducting the amount written off) has been divided,
the business being strengthened by the other 44 p.c.
The price paid by the co. for goodwill was
£72,377, and that amount is being formally written
off. In the foregoing table it has not been regarded
as an asset at all, and the reserves have no paper
in them at all, sb far as the eye can see. It is a
remarkably fine record.
The next table shows the movement of various
items:—
1906. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Stock ..£96,965 £179,357 £209,271 £214,587
Book debts 124,289 171,402 175,791 193,116
Freeholds.. 77,093 90,556 92,451 82,455
Leaseholds 14,093 18,929 26,751 42 827
Plant, etc. 17,354 18,724 18,428 19|433
Cash, etc... 3,943 7,343 8,564 24,492
The assets thus totalled £333,737 in 1906 and
£576,910 in 1912. This increase of £243,173 has
been provided for in the following manner:—
' New capital £lOO,OOO
Increase of liabilities .. .. 47,127
Profit put by 96,046
And that is an excellent record too. The present lia-
bilities, by the way, are £153,189. Their growth is
shown hereunder:—
~ . 1906. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Mortgages ..£40,800 £54,000 £50,000 £42,000
Other debts .. 65,262 103,187 81,017 111,189
Total . £106,062 £157,187 £131,017 £153,189
There is £150,000 of 6 p.c. cumulative pref. capital,
and that means £9OOO a year. A net profit of
£48,000 thus makes £39,000 available for the
ordinary shareholders = 194 p.c. on their capital. It
is very doubtful indeed whether that sort of thing
can last. There has been a burst of extravagance
lately, the Labor Government in N. S. Wales leading
the way and being mainly responsible for it by its
stupendous borrowing. It is during such periods that
the time-pavment trader flourishes most luxuriantly.
How he will flourish when a slump comes is another
matter. Not only is it certain that he won’t sell as
many goods, but the chances are that he will have
to take back a good deal of what he has sold, or
“hired.” In that respect the dealer in pianos, etc.,
isn’t very much different from the dealer in time-
payment building blocks or residences. This point
must, however, be noted: Marcus Clark and Co. have
a sizeable business, apparently, entirely apart from
the t.p. section.
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc.. Syd-
ney :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1904. .£43,414 8 p.c. =£36,000 £7,414 £155,942
Sept., 1904.. 37,570 8 ~ ~ 36,000 1,570 157,512
Mar., 1905.. 46,964 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,964 165.476
Sept., 1905.. 37,394 8 ~ ~ 36,000 1,394 169,870
Mar., 19ii6.. 46,532 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,532 180,402
- Sept.., 1906.. 38,286 S ~ ~ 36,000 2,286 182,688
Mar., 1907.. 45,156 8 ~ ~ 36,000 9,156 191,844
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 ~ ~ 45,000 8,889 200,733
Mar., 1908.. 75,071 10 ~ ~ 45,000 30,071 230,804
Sept., 1908.. 62,904 10 ~ ~ 45,000 17,904 248,708
Mar., 1909.. 75,372 10 ~ ~ 45,000 30,372 279,080
Sept., 1909.. 64,123 10 ~ ~ 45,000 19,123 298,203
Mar., 1910.. 78,382 10 ~ ~ 45,000 33,382 331,585
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 ~ ~ 45,000 26,330 357,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 257,915
Mar., 1911.. 107,833 10 p.c. = 50,000 57,833 315,748
Sept., 1911.. 99.732 10 ~ „ 50,000 49,732 365,480
Mar., 1912.. 124,403 10 ~ ~ 50,000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10 p.c. = 55,000 40,303 350,156
The capital is now £1,100,000. Two years ago it was
£900,000, but since then two lots of bonus shares
have been issued. Now something else is in the
wind: “Your directors have under consideration a
project of re-valuing the co.’s assets, and adjusting
the capital accordingly without issuing new shares,
which they are satisfied will be to the advantage of
the shareholders.” It is a cryptic remark which
might mean almost anything; but it will probably
be found to mean something solid in the way of a
cash bonus before long—a cash bonus instead of
another share bonus. The position is, to all appear-
ances, extraordinarily strong. Look at how things
have changed in 10 years:—
1902. 1912.
Liabilities.. .. .. £35,656 £43,653
Assets.
Breweries and proper- ,
ties 677,223 856,369
Book debts .. . , 193,550 212,644
Stock 101,184 131,468
Liquid assets . . .. 144,965 383,357
Meantime no new capital has been got in, and lia-
bilities have only moved up to the extent of a trifling
£BOOO. So, apart from that trifle, the business has
provided the regular corpulent dividend, added
£179,146 to the book value of the premises, plant,
etc., and besides other things has put £238,392 on
to the liquid assets. _ Those liquid assets are made up
of deposits and public securities, and the management
probably has an idea that it would be less likely to
cause trouble if the bulk of them were divided
among shareholders; and as the co. certainly isn’t
likely to have much need of these assets itself, this
baper makes a guess that there is a division in the
wind. Probably it will be found, on re-valuation of
assets, that so much writing-up can be done that
the visible reserves needn’t be interfered with. In
other words, perhaps £lOO,OOO or so may be added
on to the book value of the plant, premises, etc ■
so the balance-sheet totals will not be affected if’,
for a start. £lOO.OOO is withdrawn from the liouid
assets for distribution. It is quite possible that The
Bulletin will be told that nothing of this char-
acter has been decided upon. It was told the same
thing three years ago when it announced that a dis-
tribution of bonus shares was impending. On this
occasion it cheerfully admits that it doesn’t know.
It only puts two and two together and tries to make
the answer four.
* * * *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Mine Writ-
Development ten
Loss. Expenditure. OfL Deficit
Sept., 1f06.. £2 £2974 £7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907.. 441 4274 £l2BO 12,295
L'SS.
Sept., 1907.. 17 1010 984 14,306
Profit.
Mar., 1908.. 5,377 2447 3021 14 397
Sept., 1908.. 8,094 1605 6103 14 oil
Mar., 1909.. 8,061 684 6557 13 191
Sept., 1909.. 8,655 147 3713 s’:i96
Mar., 1910.. 538 193 SOI 8,352
Nominal
Sept., 1910.. 13,716 3666 1,698
Mar., 1911.. 10,730 3746 8,682
( 10,294 3167 4
Sept., 1911.. 4 Four years’ divs. on pref. 7 5,809
V shares, £lO,OOO J
f 9,346 3167 )
Mar., 1912.. 4 Four years’ divs. on pref. J- 1,988
I shares, £lO,OOO. J
C 15.883 3244 )
IQI9 J Three years’ divs. on pref. I 0
Sept., 1912.. 4 shares>£7isoo . lop.c. div. f 2 - (,o °
V. on other shares, £4437. J
So the co. has come out of darkness and got back
into light. When, a few years ago, it reached the
end of the mine more quickly than it had ex-
pected, things looked so hopeless that the pref. share-
holders wanted the assets sold and the thing wound
up: they felt pretty sure of getting their trifle of
capital back that way, and were not too sure about
it any other way. However, that plan was de-
feated, and in 1905 a new property was bought at
Cessnock. The co. had very little money or liquid
assets; but it had a fine lot of coal waggons, and
there was a great demand for them at the time ; so
they were hired out, and this helped the co. to get
across the stream. The new property was very
cheaply opened up ; and when production started it
was luckily found that the co. hadn’t lost its old
business connection. Profits consequently came very
soon ; and now, the arrears of cumulative pref. divi-
dend having been paid off, the ordinaries get a bite —
the first since 1901. Just before the Cessnock pro-
perty was bought, the capital stood at £103,939
It stands now at £108,747. Thus, the new mine
has been bought, equipped and opened up at a cost
to the shareholders of less than £5OOO. As at
March, 1904, the book debts and other liquid assets
were £4583; the liabilities were £3162, leaving a
surplus of £1421 of liquid assets. The liquid assets
are now £34,217 and the liabilities £10,719; sur-
plus, £23,498. Thus, besides paying for the mine,
and putting £15,000 into plant, and wiping out all
but 2§ years of the arrears of pref. dividend, opera-
tions to the end of September had added £22,077 to
the liquid surplus; and, as shown above, this is to
be used, or partly used, to wipe out the small arrears
of dividend and pay the ordinaries something No
wonder the shareholders opened their hearts and
voted the chairman 200 guineas. What the
shareholders need to remember now is that a
mine is not immortal, and that you can’t divide all
your revenue over and above expenses without finding
some day that you haven’t got a mine to represent
your capital. In other words, if all profits are
divided, some of that dividend must be regarded as
repayment of principal.
The Civil Service Co-operative So-
ciety of N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney) :—-
Dividend (I<j p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (10 p.c.). serves. serves.
Jan., 1905.. ( «.*«> *16,723
(Preuimmson new shares 6887 23,610
July, 1905.. 8,410 7,188 1222 24,832
Jan., 1906.. 8,u25 7,751 1174 26,006
July, 1906.. 8,062 6,995 1067 27,073
(11J p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1907.. 9,138 8,298 840 27,913
July, 1907.. 8,809 8,251 558 28,471
Jan., 1908.. 9,298 9,034 264 28,735
July, 1908.. 9,697 9,043 654 29,389
Jan., 1909.. 10,507 9,970 537 29,926
July, 1909.. 9,3i8 9,531 29,783
Jan., 1910.. 11,864 10,401 1463 31,246
July, 1910.. 10,2(2 9,763 509 31,755
Jan., 1911.. 12,082 10,477 1605 33,360
July, 1911.. 10,911 10,108 803 34,163
Jan., 1912.. 12,824 11,383 1441 35,604
July, 1912.. 10,484 11,086 35,002
In the last line £425 has been allowed as a matter
of guesswork for uncollected bonuses. The actual
amount won't be known till next half-year. During
the half-year gross profits have increased a trifle
(from £39,331 to £39,982). But the increase in
expenses was out of all proportion to this movement;
they rose from £25,810 for the half-year which
ended on 31 /1 /’ 12 to £28,786 for the half-year which
closed on 31/7/’I2. The net result is a decline in the
profits and a reduction of the reserves. This shows
the thing in more detail:—
Dross Proportion
Cash Profit on Working Expenses
Receipts. Sales, etc. Expenses, to Receipts.
Jan., 1900.. £67,522 £15,997 £10,158 15‘04 p.c.
Jan., 1909.. 125,908 31,821 19,983 15-87 „
July, 1909.. 122,629 31,063 19,929 16-25 „
Jan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15-90
July, 1910.. 126,780 32,600 20,272 15’99 „
Jan., 1911.. 139,740 35,976 21,953 15‘7l ~
July, 1911.. 136,860 36,362 23,174 16‘93 „
Jan., 1912.. 154,713 40,956 25,810 16'68 „
July, 1912.. 155,178 41,593 28,786 18-55 „
And The Bulletin has an idea that the average
trading concern will presently show that the pendu-
lum has swung still further that way. When trade
eases off, as the result of the enforced stoppage of
wholesale public borrowing, coupled, maybe, with a
poor season, the average trading co.’s expenses won’t
ease off to correspond. Last year or the year before
showed extra-good results, because the trade got a
spurt on ahead of wages, etc. ; but the spurt that
wages, etc., put on will probably outlast the spurt
in trade, and that won’t be good for the look of
profits.
“The co. will proceed to registration and
allotment when 1000 A shares have been applied for.”
This is from the prospectus of the Progressive Stores
of Australasia, Ltd., issped in Sydney the other day.
The promoters yelled on the roof-top of the document
that the capital was £45,000, and they declared that
their object was, “for a commencement,” to “open
with grocery and provision stores in Sydney and
suburbs ; and as the progress of the co. warrants it,
100 branches will be opened in the principal towns
of Australasia.” All of which is going to be done
by a co. that takes to itself the right to retain the
public’s money, even though only 1000 shares Of £1
each are applied for. There have been a good many
cases of this sort in Australia during the past two
or three years. Cos. have been formed with high-
sounding intentions, and with the right to go to allot-
ment on the receipt of applications for a trifling
number of shares—-a number utterly insufficient to
allow the cos. to carry out their alleged intentions!
It ought to be made impossible for a co. to regard
itself as floated unless shares sufficient for the main
purposes of the co. have been applied for ; and regis-
tration in any other circumstances ought to be
refused.
* * *
N.S.W. Government Geologist Pittman
says of the lodide that “the deposit which has been
opened out exceeds in importance any silver-lead
ore-body that has been discovered in N. S. Wales for
some > years”—which sounds fine and large, but
doesn t mean much when you come to remember that
no silver-lead ore-body discovered of late in N S
}' ales has got near dividends. The thing, however"
is certainly promising. Not, of course, that the rich
stuff and the stupendous assays so much talked about
are of any consequence at all. These secondary en-
richments are liable to be serious traps for the un-
wary. There may be a big thing underneath or there
may be a large hole in your pocket. The C.S.A.
i iear L “°” ar > ls a case in point. There was the
leached-out capping, and the enriched ore underneath,
and beneath that, again, as G. H. Blakemore and
other good judges decided, there might be almost
anything As things have turned out, there doesn’t
seem to be much—which was just about what there
was at the somewhat similar Day Dream, the first of
the Barrier shows in which Sydney took an interest
25 years ago. On the other hand, there was the more-
or-less leached outcrop at Broken Hill, then the zone
of enrichment, and, underneath, something great.
Only time can tell which of the two the lodide will
most resemble.
* * * *
Un p/M Pi'jtish-Australiaii Oil Co., Murrur-
undi (N.S.W.), made a successful issue of £150,000
of 6 p.c. debentures on August 22 in London. The
J aS -? ee f e< ? t0 c raise production and treat-
-400 * 500 “t 11 shale f rom 150—170 tons a day to
hpn(u7 3 nf° , , The Present works consist of a
v i Cl ,i°o 4B r . e t° rts > capable of treating 120 tons of
d m ly ’e Wl « *? aphtha lowers and sulphate of am-
monia plant. It is proposed to erect two additional
°. f re ? orts - of * he satn e type and capacity as
able WiH? iia nch ’ f 'T hlch I 1 ?* P rove d entirely suit-
able. With 144 retorts working, it is estimated that
the production of crude oil will be trebled. By this
IKfnlW reSnei 7 at Newcastle will be employed to
its fullest capacity, and the lower grades of shale
firm iw m ° re - P r °d tab j7 worked. The engineers eon-'
pf Cl i c J rl! % ln , al estimate that there are 2,500,000
tons ot shale delimited in situ at Murrurundi. This
quantity would give work for 25 years at 100,000
tons a year, without drawing on the reserves at
Capert.ee, now producing only export shale for gas-
ennehmg purposes. The shale is conveyed from the
mine to the crude oil works by an aerial ropeway
rules m length, at the rate of 30 tons peMiour
, 480 , to f n ® b >. double shift. When the retorts were
CTade «b rt i ed tl ? e Vr ngln< i erS wisel y Seated only low-
ler ton Thf« e L T ? gallons of crude oil
fhp Th , ha ! been slowl y increased, and now
the yields per ton have reached over 50 gallons On
S al ® Y°i" th 4 i gallons of crude oil per ton, the pro-
vielrbu>rfiflfinred a n £S4 ’2 OO P er annum, and on shale
50 gallons £140,000. The capital is
£300,000, and the debenture issue £150,000 at 6
P’ C ‘ .The equipment cost £204,886. Thirteen dif-
t er ™J : I V nd .* 1 of 011 a re produced at the Newcastle re-
nha+l’ r beSKeS P ara ffm, wax, greases, coke and sul-
ilh" 01113 '- 1- ° f tbe , there is an aver-
age of 21 3 lb per ton of shale treated. The co has
nf l '!,-! to v , P r odl ’ce or discover a fourteenth variety
J? 1 which will cure baldness, and its profits will
easily be doubled. Ronald Johnstone and Son of
Glasgow, are managing engineers to the co.
fi iT h< i ? r i, n S pal hlocks on the “new” tin-
field at Ardlethan (N.S.W.) are the Carpathia, the
Champion (which is on the same lode and con-
The blom 7 ard , ? ound and The White
Vii l l ' ?i here are hundreds of others, of course
All have the same surface concentration of tin in
4 ;i ItCI 'PS S ’ larB ' e . st deposit being on the Car-
pathia. The tin ore is the most unlikely looking
stuff, it resembles m appearance a heavy
The weight of the richer stuff is the only thfng
which would make one suspect that it wasn’t all iron
oxide. It is tolerably clear that the bulk of the value
lr J ad - tle P ro P ertles is in the outcrop. The formation
of this seems pretty evident. As the granite hill has


GOOD
Dividends
Interest
INVESTMENTS that embody all the elements
necessary to Soundness and Productiveness.
Unless we are assured, after the most searching
and thorough investigation, of the earning capac-
ity of every investment, business organisation and
enterprise brought to us—we do not handle it.
CONSULT US on any sound, healthy business
proposition you may have. We will afford von
the fullest information we have at our disposal.
DEPARTMENTS: Promotion of Industries, Pub-
lic Companies, Trust Estates, Security Depart-
ment, Secretarial Dept., Real Estate, Local and
Foreign Agencies, etc.
Authorised Capital £500,000.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne and London.
Head Office—Third Floor, Yaralia
Chambers, 109 Pitt St., Sydney.
London Office: 199 Winchester House,
Old Broad Street, E.C.
ā
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROW MAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction, should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be mor>
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. AVhatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per cub.
yd., stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. 5d.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stone-crusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* f3
* * * *
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary. Industrial and Accident) in
a year which was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE can be fitted with the
greatest ease to any existing system, while the lay-
ing of the pipe can be done by any intelligent
laborers, by following the directions in the instruc-
tion-book issued by the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain and Footscray.*
One of the many difficulties to be faced in paining
is the inrush of water when sinking, and unless you
have thoroughly reliable pumps you may as well shut
down. Haes and Eggers, Ltd., of 163 Clarence
Street, Sydney, have exactly what you want. Write
for catalogues. See page 3.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 386 George Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney.* [1
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc., of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
pipes for the new O’Shannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£100,000. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
CoT.nisoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sii.berberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles : chemicals ; etc.*
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
decomposed and disintegrated through
the tin in the lode channel has been left behind in a
streak along the line of the lode. Many .
of feet of hill have probably been worn away since
the lode was first formed, and the tin n °w found is
the concentration of the contents of the on„ina •
The localitv is full of iron-cemented breccia (a con-
glomerate of angular fragments), and the same cement
ing action has operated on the loose tin of t
composed lode, giving it now the appearance
capping of ironstone, in which very few people
would ever suspect the presence of tin.
The Carpathia has a 15ft. hole on it. Most of the
hole is in decomposed granite; the rich outcrop or
cap is but two or three feet thick. There is nothi §f
startling in the hole in the way of tin or lode, the
channel seems to be 3ft. or 4ft. wide, although tl
outcrop is 20ft. wide. The White Crystal is -oft.
deep, in a lode channel 3ft. or 4ft. wide, dipping
west. The same rich cap existed, and was dug- out,
and most of it bagged up without any great ettort.
The material from the bottom of the shaft 1S T'°' ; ln }~
pressive by comparison with the stuff from the out-
crop. The Champion has the same channel as tne
Carpathia, and from appearances the owners nave
successfully bagged most of the rich cropp ng. here
is a hole 10ft. to 12ft. deep, now in decomposed
granite; it contains tin, but in very small quan-
tity as compared with the gorgeous cap. the Home-
ward Bound is down 35ft. to 40ft. Here, again, is a
pile of bags with beautiful ore in them, left to im-
press the unwily visitor. The owners have also suc-
ceeded in getting most of the rich outcrop into bags.
The Carpathia show has been more considerate m
this regard. A large quantity of tin ore is still
lying around, and it is certain there are several
thousands of pounds sterling to be yet gathered up.
But after that is done the owners will have to bring
themselves down to common earth, and get to work
on a narrow lode of probably very medium value.
Ardlethan tin shows in the past have all been of
the same character- —very rich on the top in the cap,
and very poor underneath. If The Bulletin owned any
of the “promising shows,” it would sell to the first
enemy it met.
* * * *
The Golden Gully, Tambaroora, at the
north of the Hill End field (N.S.W.), has been
promising big things for many moons; but some-
how it doesn’t appear able to get going. A start
was attempted last August, but the fortnight’s run
gave £25 for the gold obtained: the plant only put
through about 15 cubic yards of material per hour.
As the ground was hard and stony, and didn’t give
any promise of improving, camp was shifted to the
present site, where the initial difficulties are said to
have been now overcome. The co. ends its first year
with £1557 to the bad.
* * * *
New Wylie Creek (N.S.W.) is wondering
whether life is worth living. It made a loss of £137
last half-year, and if tin had not been an abnormal
price it shudders to think what might have hap-
pened. There doesn't seem much hope ahead, either ;
so the directors are keeping their eyes open for some
better job for their plant. #
Westralian gold producers which showed
up best as dividend-pavers for the expired nine months
of this year to the end of Sent, were: Great Boulder,
£196,875 ; Iva-nhoe, £165,000 ; lialgurli, £72,000 ;
Sons of Gwalia, £52,812; Black Range, £23,563;
Lake View and Star, £20,000; Golden Ridge,
£16,223; Mararoa, £15,000; Oroya Links, £14,375 ;
South Kalgurl', £.7.500; and Sand Queen, £6,000.
The October distributions include £45,000 by the
Ivanhoe and £24,000 by Kalgurli.
* * * *
Westralia’s State batteries have now
treated 879,750 tons of public ore for a recovery of
£3,268,532. Including the amounts paid for sands
and slimes, the total is £3,804,403.
* * * *
Collie (W.A.) looks like putting up a re-
cord in coal production this year. An increase of
50,000 tons over the previous year's figures was
shown in 1910 as a result of the Newcastle strike,
but the 1911 output did not soar quite so high. For
the first nine months of 1912, however, the produc-
tion has been much better than even the oldest in-
habitant anticipated, and the full year’s tonnage
promises to exceed that of 1910 by 40,000.
After thinking the matter over. Great
Boulder (W.A.) has decided to take a 12 months’
working option on the Great Victoria, at Nevoria.
The show has an area, of 96 acres, with a long run on
the line of lode. Like the Bullfinch it is situated in
a break in the country, which has thrown the lode
east of south by north of west, with an underlie to
the north-west. Since the Boulder took a prelimin-
ary option in August a bit of money has been ex-
pended in development, with, on the whole, rather
low-grade results. It is, however, possible that the
property may give a prof, if worked on a big scale,
and it is on this that the Boulder has decided to
gamble.
* * * *•
Luptons’ (W.A.) is calling shareholders
together to discuss the future. Owing to the shoot
shortening between the 100 ft. and 150 ft. workings,
only 200 instead of the 1000 tons estimated by the
manager were disclosed. Disappointing intermediate
stopes also helped to embarrass the co., and as there
was nothing left to crush, the mill had to be shut
down. It is proposed to further test the few small
capricious shoots in deeper ground, but these are
poor assets to buy shares on.
* * * *
Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.) has met with
some good values at 210 ft. in what is known as the
northern series. These workings are some distance
from the original holes and excavations, and are
turning out a good deal better in depth than they
looked at surface. All going well, the treatment
plant is expected to be running before Christmas,
and the mine will then have a chance to show its
real capacity.
Kurnalpi township (W.A.) is again in
reduced circumstances. Applications for leases have
ceased, and as an exodus of “shepherders” has started,
it is doubtful if much of the ground applied for will
have a pick put into it. Binti Binti is now the ren-
dezvous of most of Kurnalpi’s recent admirers, and
quite a number have already begun to “speak highly”
of its prospects. Until more proof of Binti’s value is
forthcoming, however, it had better be viewed with
the cold eye.
* * * *
For the life of them, local optimists can-
not understand why Gwalias (W.A.) don’t soar. Some
fairly good developments have certainly taken place
since the slump, but as the aggregate amount paid in
dividends in the past nine months is more than has
been earned, and as the present rate of distribution
is not likely to be maintained much longer, it looks
as if the market is not far wrong in this casp.
After all, the valuation of a developed irlirie depends
on what is in sight; and to make a share worth £1
there should be at least 12s. per share p
sight, with no Sign of impoverishment in the bottom
workings. Unfortunately, this basis of valuation is
rarely adopted, with the result that most mines are
over-valued. . *
* * *
In announcing that it still exists, Golden
Pole (W.A.) states that royalties amounting to £9l
were received during the half-year ended September
30, that the profit and loss account now shows
a debit of £125, and that an additional £o7B has
been written off the now well-worn plant and
machinery. The tributors’ agreement expires at the
end of this year, but a six months’ extension has
been granted, in the hope that the mine will be kept
alive a little # »
Marvel Loch (W.A.) has decided to do
some more development, and let ore-treatment
slide for the present. If the erection of the mill
had not been hurried while the mine was allowed to
take its chance, this stoppage would not have hap-
pened. There was very little payable ore available
when the stamps were dropped; consequently the co
was soon in trouble, and the shares were knocked
out. 9
Black Range West (W.A.), tlie mostly
Sydney-uvyueu »nuw wicil a goou alongside
the parent Black Range, whose stone dips into it,
hasn’t had anything yet besides great expectations.
It can find goid, but the stone won't pay under pre-
sent circumstances. A crosscourse, which the Black
Range knows a lot about, passes through the pro-
perty, and the B. R. West has visions of a richer lens or
two "when it drives along this crosscourse at a deeper
level. But it has tired out many of its supporters,
and money has to be almost dragged out nowadays.
* * * *
There was a “river picnic” on the Queens-
land Government steamer Otter the other day, fol-
lowed by an inspired par. to the effect that the con-
struction of two N.Q. railways by Private Enter-
prise had been discussed. Later, another par. “under-
stood” that the lines in question were an extension of
the railway from the Duchess, at Cloncurry, and one
to Mount Mulligan. The latter might have been ex-
pected, in view of the Chillagoe Co.’s wire-pulling.
Also, Railway Commissioner Evans lately had a trial
made of the coal, with results described as “emi-
nently satisfactory.” Mount Mulligan is about 12
miles north-west of the old Thornborough goldfield
township, on the west side of the Hodgkinson River,
and is a remarkable feature in the landscape. The
range runs north and south for about 11 miles. The
eastern face is extremely precipitous; in fact, so far
as is known, there is only one track to the summit.
Coal was discovered there some four years ago by
the late W. J. W. Richards, an old identity of the
district, and the seams were prospected by John
Moffat. At first ash contents were high (about 20
p.c.), but, according to late reports, the quality has
improved as the seam has been driven on. The start-
ing point of any railway would be between Mareeba
and the Walsh River, on the Chillagoe line. One
objection to the construction being passed on to
Private Enterprise is that the Government is pledged
to connect the Cooktown-Laura line with Mungana,
via Maytown, and this private line would be a link in
that chain. Further, on past experience, P. Enterprise
would charge from 50 to 70 p.c. higher freights than
the Government lines. Still, the line is needed. Apart
from its value in opening up this far-north coalfield,
it would, in a short time, open up also the Mitchell
lands, which are eminently suitable for agriculture.
There is a movement afoot to give Mount
Molloy (N.Q.) another chance; and as the copper
market is favorable, the present seems a good time
to do it. The co. which holds the property is in
50,000 pref. and 100,000 ordinary shares. The idea
is to issue 50,000 paids (not prefs.) to the old pref.
shareholders, and offer the old ordinaries share for
share on payment of 2s. The latter shares will then
be counted as paid to 16s. The old co. overtaxed its
strength in building a railway from Biboora, on the
Cairns line, and had the bad luck to get into a poor
zone when it wasn’t feeling very well. Besides the
railwa.y and the mine it owns a smelting plant.
Under the improved conditions the mine certainly de-
serves another chance. It is a case of back-up or
forfeit, and the chances are much too good to think
of forfeiting.
* * * *
During the first nine months of this year,
Charters Towers treated 103,011 tons for £237,099,
which is not quite up to last year’s average. Bril-
liant Extended heads the list with 26,200 tons for
£48,008. Mills’ Day Dawn and the New Brilliant
Freeholds follow close at heel. Brilliant Stockholm
(5669 for £24,166) maintains a worthy aver-
age of nearly £4 55., spread over 5669 tons. Bril-
liant Deeps, though it hasn’t hatched a dividend,
tops the field with an average of £7 per ton from
1684 tons. The Golden Horn, at Mount Leyshon,
was a big ore-producer (21,268 tons) in the early
part of the year; but the value (£6190) shows
where the trouble lies. Falling under the profit-
margin, it sold its surface furniture to the Standard
Tin Mines, which hope to find better use for it.
Mount Morgan at £3,000,000 (£3 per
share) is the highest-priced stock on the Australian
mining market. Three years ago (Sept., 1909)’, with
the red metal quoted at £59 Is. 3d., shares were
735., or 13s. higher than they are now, when copper
is £75. The fact is, Mount Morgan has only recently
emerged from an unforeseen struggle with smelting
difficulties, and, to date, dividends have fallen far
short of expectations. But things are not going to
stay like that. The metal is there, and the co. has the
means to procure the best brains and machinery td
get it out.
* * * *
The striking feature of the Mount Cuth-
bert (Q.) half-yearly report is the small quantity
of concentrating ore disclosed —70,000 tons of 4 p.c.
copper, compared with 150,000 tons estimated to
average 8 p.c. Assuming that very high recoveries
are made—9o p.c. from high-grade and 80 p.c.
from low-grade ore—there is 13.040 tons of copper
available. Valued at £65 per ton, this means
£847,600. Very nice figures to look at, no doubt;
but keep in mind that that value is in 220,000 tons
of ore, so the stuff doesn’t average £4 per ton.
Mount Elliott’s costs for mining, smelting, convert-
ing, etc., cannot be much under £4 per ton of ore.
Before the mining costs increased the cost on blister
was no doubt occasionally cut down to £2B per ton,
or (say) £3 10s. per ton of ore. But under ordinary
circumstances, and counting administration and re-
newals in, even £32 (£4 per ton of ore) is an
optimistic est'mate. In view of this, Cuthbert’s
figures are not very cheerful.
Mount Cuthbert’s Warwick Castle lease,
Cloncurry (Q.), is showing encouraging prospects. A
shaft is being sunk on the north-west outcrop, and a
sample taken from 15ft. assays 25 p.c. copper. This
lease has been held for a long time, and a good deal
of pottering work has been done on it with very little
success. But it is easy to miss a shoot of ore, as the
old owners of the Young Australia, near Hampden,
now know to their cost.
* * * *
Harry Dodd and George Bryant fill the
eye at Cathcart meetings (Vic.). Dodd does the
sneaking, and George Bryant, as manager, prods the
plan with a big stick, to let as much light as
would come through a church window on to the
mystery of this particular alluvial mine. The co.
seemingly has about 2000 fathoms cut up and fairly
well drained; this is off No. 3 shaft, whence from
the drives 83 fathoms have given 2530 z. This is a
better record than the wash from No. 2 shaft, and if
Bryant’s estimate of a length of 2000 ft. of gutter
to the Central Cathcart isn’t 500 ft. too long, there
should be a nice string of dividends yet to come
out of the claim. The “bull” points are that the
Central Cathcart is draining the gutter fob the
Cathcart, thus reducing costs for the latter; that
Cathcart has every chance of at least 2oz. dirt; and
that such a yield means more in divs. than the
present market price of the shares. Up the gutter,
some 1700 ft. of the lead gave only 20s. in divs.;
but the far-up part was poor. Good ground was left
in the face when the level was lost off the No. , 2
shaft, so the bulls may again have a victory. All
the same, the market has the tired feeling about
Cathcarts, and it will continue that way unless
Bryant can jerk in some gilt-edged wash of the
Central Cathcart kind.
Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.), won’t re-
spond to the eloquence of Chairman Rowe or the
language of ’Enery Hartrick, the local orator.
Whether the mine should be shut down or the reserve
used up was fought out some months back. Wal-
halla naturally wanted the money spent, because a
liquidator’s div. wouldn’t do the township any good,
whereas, while money is being spent on it, there is
always a chance of a hit in a mine with a good
record. The co. has already chewed up £7OOO of
its reserve, leaving only £4OOO to carry on with,
and its hope of picking up gold in the bottom levels
is small enough to go through any needle’s eye. Ore
reserves now are under 5000 tons of about Bdwt. stuff,
which won’t do much more than meet expenses. Wal-
halla wants local directors and a try at the big block
of ground between the incline shaft and the old Long
Tunnel ground. The drain on reserves ought long
since to have led to prospecting here as a stand-by to
the old mine, but the board seems to be too beastly
superior to do more than shepherd the block. Any-
way, if shilling monthly calls have to come, as is
threatened hy Chairman Rowe, Walhalla won’t have
to worry over getting control of the board. Hart-
rick’s hope of an English float to test the neglected
slabs of the co.’s big lease may come quite easily
then.
## * #
Alexandra Reefs, in N.W. Vic., has hauled
down the flag, after pottering about for five years
or so, trying to find the gold that the old miners
didn’t leave behind. Finlayson was brought from
Long Tunnel to pull things together, but he couldn’t
do the impossible, whatever he could achieve as a
shaft-sinker. All told, the co. has got £6600 from
gold. It has cost £22,000 to put up this record, so
the truth that the Alexandra’s glory had departed
ought to be now firmly established. Nevertheless,
another consultation is to be held to decide whether
to wind up or spend more cash. The obvious is hard
to see sometimes.
* * * *
Mount Lyell has two or three strings to
play on while the North Lyell is being flooded, but
they are all thin. It can hunt round the Crown Lyell
for ore: it could help the Tasman and Crovvn Lyell
to open up its much-vaunted galena lode; it might
go to the Peaks or take the Blocks on tribute, or
have a cut at the South Thar s's, or the Lyell Tharsis;
or it might even dig into its own South Lyell, and
make a stab at its lately-bought Comstock leases.
As it wants to keep its hold on the mining population,
it will probablv hunt up ore? in the Lyell Tharsis,
the Comstock and the Blow. Is it luck or what that
a co. like the Lyell should be so hard pressed for ore
in a big field like the West Coast? Why didn’t the
board fix its eye on the Rosebery district, where big
Bowes Kelly has bought in so heavily?
* * * *
The Great Finch is moribund for the want
of a mine. Floated in Melbourne on the top of the
Bullfinch rush, it has tried its luck in other fields,
only to dribble out the pence that ought to have
been pushed back at once into shareholders’ pockets.
What is wanted is a cinematograph picture to illus-
trate the line-uo of the shareholders for their final
div. of 10s. per 100 shares. It might save other
people a lot of money some day.
H.A.D.: It’s a pretty dreadful result—
£s4o paid in premiums to the society during 15
years and £566 now payable by the society—but it
isn’t as dreadful as it looks. You survived the 15
years; plenty of other insurers didn t, and their
representatives have called for the insurance money.
Don’t forget that the people who live have to pay
for those who don’t —a point which most people
forget when they fall foul of. an insurance co. Also
vour assumntion that the £l3O “profit” goes to the
Equitable shareholders is wrong. The society s con-
tention is that it gave you insurance for 15 years at
an actual cost of £lO4 (which means that that was
your share of the cost of policies which became
claims —the policies of the people who died early),
and you now get £566; total £670. Premiums
paid," £540; balance, being benefits received in ex-
cess of premiums paid, £l3O. You certainly didn t
pocket and won’t pocket £lO4 of the total; but you
bought insurance with the money.... Inquirer: The
proposal, apparently, is that you shall get business
and whack it with a concern that doesn’t do a single
thing towards getting it. If it could offer you the
agency of half a dozen big, or even moderate, cos.,
it would be a different matter; but it can’t and
doesn't. #
This shows the history of the Advances
to Workers’ Department of the Maoriland State
Bank:—
Loan Exes.
Advances Written
Mar., Outstanding. Loss. Off. Deficit.
1907 .. £5,490 £434 £434
1908 .. 203,143 228 662
Profit. Reserves.
1909 .. 482,436 3,757 3,095
1910 818,341 1,396 £1424 3,067
1911 .. 1,177,959 6,864 952 8,979
1912 .. 1,642,133 10,300 8000 11,279
Strictly, £4451 ought to be written off those poor
reserves, because the assets include a paper item of
that size, “Loan notation charges.” The Department
was established by an Act of 1906, its object being
to assist persons with comparatively small incomes
to get rid of the rent fiend. At the start it was
provided that the loans should be for 361 years.
That long, fixed term was a handicap, because either
•in many places the Supt. couldn’t see 361 years life
for the settlement, or would-be borrowers wouldn’t
tie themselves or their families for so long. Subse-
quently the Supt. was given more latitude; and then
the demand for the State’s'money at 41 p.c. interest
spurted ahead fast. The funds of the Dept, are avail-
able onlv to persons doing manual or clerical work,
and in receipt of not more than £2OO a year; also
the applicant must be prepared to show that he does
not own any land except that on which he proposes
to build. The advance is limited to £450, though
of course the building may cost more. The Dept,
provides plans, etc., free, from its stock of about a
score. The loans are not restricted to freeholders,
though the advance to leaseholders is naturally much
less, as a rule. At present the average freehold
advance is £302, and the average leasehold advance
£lBO. The advance is secured by a mortgage on the
property, including, of course, the land.
As the Department’s easy terms have become
known, the demand for help has grown fast. The
applications last vear numbered 2223, and 1624 ad-
vances were actually made. The money is raised by
the State, which can get it cheaper than any private
individual, because it has the entire taxable assets
of the country to offer as security. Hence it can
pass the money on at an exceedingly low rate of
interest; also, not being out after profit, it does pass
it on at a low rate. Certainly it wants to show a
profit, but that is merely in order to create a con-
tingency fund—a provision for probable bad debts.
The advances are so liberal—they may be up to three-
fourths of the value of land and building—that there
are bound to be losses at some time dr other. In the
12 months to March, 1911, £BB was called for in
that way, and in the past year £3 —not bis: sumS,
it is true, but liable to be much bigger should a,
slump hit Mabriland; For this reason it is highly
desirable that no further concessions should be made
to borrowers until there is a much more solid fund
than at present exists.
“Mines We h .transitory source of wedlth;
they enrich the foreign capitalist rather than the
nation itself; they do not help tb build up an in-
telligent and settled body of responsible citizens;”
Thus Ambassador James Bryce, in his new book on
South America. But why not put it this way:
“Through the folly of the governing class to which
I belong, and the foolish dread of driving capital out
of the country, they are generally permitted to en-
rich the foreign capitalist rather than the nation,”
etc. ?


C»idiisrcujiif»<“ h
HEERINGI
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Hair—
Artistically Coiffured
The woman whose hair is perfectly
coiffured fills an enviable position—so greatly
does this attribute enhance her charms.
THE LADIES’ HAIRDRESSINC ROOMS
at FARMERS’
will delight every woman who values physical
beauty.
They are splendidly equipped with the most
modern devices, and include sections devoted
to Hairworking, Shampooing, Singeing, Scalp
and Face Massage, Manicuring, Chiropody, etc.
Each of these sections is controlled by an
Expert, assisted by a competent and experi-
enced staff.
Hairdressing appointments for social func-
tions can be made by telephone or letter.
Telephones: Central 72, 279, 2659, City 65
and 66.'
ENTRANCE FROM NEW MILLINERY SALON:
THIRD FLOOR, PITT STREET.
FARMER’S SYDNEY
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Novembeb 4, 1912.
My Dear Arini. —
Rumor boldly asserts that Governor
Chelmsford would not want much pressing
to come back as Gov.-General of Australia.
This would follow the departure, about two
years hence, or less, of the Denmans, and
would fit in with the Chelmsford parental
duties, which now hurry them off to Britain.
If the G.-G. business does come to a head,
there will be many tea-fights and thanks-
giving services to welcome him back on
behalf of those who enjoy his Ex.’s conversa-
tional method of laying large clutches of
foundation stones. The last stone, by the
way, before the flight for the Cup, was a
half-grown brick wall in the Sydney Show
Ground. This inspired the sheep society’s
president, Francis Suttor, to very nearly let
pussy out of the vice-regal bag. “If he
(Lord Chelmsford) ever came back to Aus-
tralia in any capacity,” etc. Then the feline
jumped back to its hiding-place, and the
brick wall was declared to be well and truly
laid.
But can a poor peer wrestle in comfort
with the glory of being a Governor-General
on £lO,OOO a year? The Dudleys were a
financial mystery, and no outsider is likely to
know whether they were very mean and rich,
or merely hard-up. The Tennysons are the
only admittedly impecunious nobility who
have grappled with the prospect of saving a
bar of soap and a few candle-ends out of the
G.-G. wages. Hopetoun got through £30,000
or £40,000 of his personal cash; and the
Northcotes were wealthy and glad to share
their luck. The joyous Denmans hand out
their money with both hands on the slightest
provocation, and the N.S.W. Government
ought to have stuck to them like wax, as
being desirable immigrants who might even
have money to lend. All things considered,
and even with this State cut out of a Gov.-
General’s visiting list, the managing Chelms-
ford lady might have to reduce her household
to bread and dripping to keep pace with the
fiendish expense of being Top Lady in this
continent. Or else she might be sensible, and
simply let her husband do the serious job
which he was appointed to do, without troub-
ling about the frills of the business at all.
The Chelmsfords are rushing back from
the Cup on Friday morning for the purpose
of blessing the annual commemoration in St.
Andrew’s College. On Saturday his Ex. will
resume his favorite occupation of laying
foundation stones. This time, by the way,
it is a memorial stone in Pymble’s Anglican
Church, and, presumably, the nest will be
built of lmlf-mourning twigs lined with
black-edged bunting.
, Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress departed
for the gilded Cup last week. The tall
Anderson girls are showing their pictur-
esque appearance in Melbourne’s dizzy race-
frivols. The Frank Brennans and Mrs.
Spark are sheltering at Menzies’ during the
same fury.
In the days when Victorian Customs
officers put their fists into Cup lingerie, or
turned a tulle hat inside out to see if it
concealed contraband loot, the wails of the
dressy ladies who flocked to Melbourne in
early November made the Albury welkin
ring. It was hard luck to see 12st. or so of
brawn and muscle stamp on the ephemeral
glory of a chiffon bow. But the wreck
wasn’t always past repair, and every
searcher in brass buttons didn’t wipe his
boots on _ gauzy petticoats. Now a new
terror smites the dame who lets her glad
rags out of her sight for five minutes. Some
special brand of race-time thief swoops
down on the baggage, boldly signs for the
lot, and vanishes without leaving a finger-
mark. Profound sobs are still shaking the
corsage hooks of a dressy Mosman matron,
who was the victim of an impudent baggage
robbery on the eve of her departure to the
Cup. Not a stitch was left wherein she
might appear “amongst those present,” ex-
cept the clothes on the lady’s back ; and they
belonged to the usual travel-order of hack
garment. So she made for home with leaden
feet.
T Mr- Justice Street unveiled the A. B.
Weigall memorial tablet in the Sydney
Grammar School.. The late and great head-
master was Plain English right through,
with no fancy trimmings or anti-Australian
prejudices. Yet the lines that trail across
this tablet, given by the youngsters who
once obeyed the Weigall birch, are buried in
a dead language. When the tail of the
Latin inscription is flogged into English it
has_ a Pecksniffian flavor, as a tribute from
Knickerbockers. “What does the Lord re-
quire of , thee.... and to walk humbly with
thy God, never grew in the quotation-patch
of the average healthy, noisy little animal
who yells for joy of life in the Grammar
School playground.
The evergreen T A. Dibbs turned the cor-
ner of his 80th birthday on October 31 He’s
another vociferous proof that the world
grows younyer for its years, for he still
wears the daily collar of his trade, as veneral
Sydney 1 ' ° f Commercial Banking Co. of
The C. G. Wades left for Japan embedded in
floral tributes from the mothers and grand-
mothers of the Liberal party. The Opposi-
tion leader has gone to look for better health.
The very splintery Mr. Wood will lead the
Opposition while the other lion, gentleman
is away.
Two attempted garden parties were blown
to smithereens on Thursday afternoon, when
a sudden southerly lifted this season’s mil-
linery. several feet in the air. The long,
rambling pile of St. Paul’s College, which
usually breaks out in mild festivities at this
time of year, with Warden Radford in
charge, housed its garden-partying refugees
under the academic roof, or in any other
old place where the wild hullabaloo of wind
couldn’t uproot them. Victoria Barracks,
where it generally blows several
zephyrs strong even when the city
is lapped in calm, can produce the
finest cyclone effects in this town
when a southerly rampages across its ter-
raced gravel. Major Christian and other
warriors responsible for the R.A.F.A. struck
Thursday’s blast for their afternoon on the
lawn. The blast hit back so ferociously
that the visitors dashed indoors to scoop the
loose ends of Oxford-street out of their eyes.
The surprise wedding of last week was
the quiet orange-blossoming of Dorothy
Owen and the popular polo-man, Denis Gar-
van. The engagement was hinted at in this
letter some weeks ago, but I don’t think it
ever wandered into print in the usual court-
circular verbiage “arranged” or an-
nounced.” The bride is the eldest daughter
of Mr. H. P. Owen, Master-in-Equity, and
one of the best-liked men within the stiff
precincts of that dry-as-dust profession. Law
is a habit in the Owen family. A late
Judge of that name was the parent of the
Equity man. A half-brother to H.P. is
Percy Owen, sen., a solicitor by trade, but
mostly drawing something comfortable in
coal, dividends from down Wollongong way.
Various junior members of the tribe have
dived into the red taoe and parchment busi-
ness as soon as they cut their first whiskers.
The Bush Brotherhood, which is celibate
and ascetic within the Anglican fold, and
has its headquarters at Dubbo, has been
making its annual cadge for cash in the
drawing-rooms of our Best People. The cadge
is under vice-regal patronage, and generally
extracts a moderate amount of coin after
an extravagant interchange of tea and
shrimp sandwiches amongst the more serious
members of local society. The tall willow-
wand figure of Bush brother Feetham
swayed with enthusiasm as he discoursed
on the Necessity for More Cash in the vice-
regal parlor at Rose Bay one day last week,
ihe .willow wand had scarcely finished
swaying, by the way, when it received word
that it had just been chosen to be the new
Bishop of North Queensland, in succession
to the overworked (and underpaid) Frod-
sham.
Some vivid blue and green impressions of
Samoa, by Lucie Peapes, hang in a meek
corner of the Women Painters’ Show. In
this water-color section, Dorothy J. Stephen
is a clever young exhibitor, who leans ten-
derly on her brush when she dabbles in the
shadows that chase a summer sunset into the
phantom arms of Night. “Evening Glow” is
a soft remark in Dorothy’s best manner, with
a faint blush under its wan grey sky. Winnie
G. Elliott is unshaken in her devotion to
sacred tiles. . It is only for five minutes that
she steps aside from church architecture to
whisk her brush through a Cremorne bush
path.
Blanche Murphy, of Hobart, sent the
Women Painters’ rally some attractive sam-
ples of Tasmanian scenery, preserved in oils.
Bessie Pnng, of Queensland, is another long-
distance exhibitor who ought to be encour-
aged to send her wares this way. “The
Grey-hooded Even” (water-color) is mostly
blue mist cleverly handled, though its name
suggests a frilled lizard on the scoot.
1 The witty repartee of that brisk political
lady, Grace Watson, is about to be removed
from the South Australian platform. A
post-card fluttered in here the other day, men-
tioning her projected departure to England
some time this month. Grace has resisted
the entreaties of various “Liberal” bodies to
remain and help them slay their adversaries
m the next Victorian scramble for votes.
She’s also alleged to have said No to a Tas-
manian Moral Education League—a heavy-
weight which falls on frivolous youth like
40.000 bricks. A dark hint that the Watson
lady has been “offered a position in London”
doesn’t satisfy one’s hunger to know whether
she is going to take the militant suffragette
by u.i- uair of her head, and drag her back
to paths of peace, or merely goad domestic
servants to rush these shores.
The good-looking Julia Glasheen, who
trimmed up the social round in the Daily
Telegkapii columns, dropped her pen for
the domestic hob on October 31. The
’groom is Dr. Herbert Kendall, who has
tons of friends on both sides of the harbor.
They honeymoon round the Byron Moore
roses at Flemington.
Pretty Ella Blau, of the corn-colored
locks, was married to W. J. Curtis, of this
location, the other day. The bride, who is
one of the dainty Dresden-china type of
damsels, is a daughter of the Julius Blaus,
of Bellevue Hill.
That ancient charity, the Female School
of Industry, will get another lump or two of
sugar in its porridge as the result of the
recent tableaux in Concordia Hall. The
sprightly Mrs. Tom Watson took a hand;
Miss Ross-Johnson gave a push ; Mrs. Bob
Macdonald, Mrs. Buchanan and Miss Wil-
kinson also helped in the nerve-racking rush
to get hold of the Right People for the
tableaux. For weeks before the event
damp-blanket friends and enemies poured
cold water down the backs of the harassed
arrangers, and told them they were in dire
peril of getting the Wrong People for this
or that. “What! Is she going to be So-
and-So ? Good gracious! Why did you
choose her? Of course, she’ll be a dead
failure,” etc. Then the committee ladies
buckled on their fighting expression, stuck
their necks into the collar, and pulled the
show through to a glittering finish.
St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball gathered up
profits to the amount of £OO9. This plump
cheque was handed to the Mother Rectress
by Sydney’s little Mayoress one afternoon
last week.
The Arts and Crafts girls have been pol-
ishing up their grey matter to snare the
nimble shilling for their wares. November
4 and 5 are the days, so the show will have
slammed its door before this reaches you.
Australian designs on beaten brass, leather
and other likely mediums have been ex-
ploited, and the purchaser is expected to
forward the gifts by mail to catch the Eng-
lish Christmas blizzard.
Singer Emilie Lambert, of this town
(when she’s at home), writes from Paris,
where she is practising her vocal chords
under the ear of Bouliy. The ear is for-
tified by a studio designed to deaden echoes.
It is full of heavy furniture; and a thick
carpet on the floor aids in the capture of
false notes. In this abode, off the Champs
Elys6es, does the eminent baritone listen
for the ghost of a tremor in the voices
of hjs pupils. “It is not too enjoyable sing-
ing in such a room,” gasps Emilie in paren-
thesis ; “but one is there for work, rather
than for pleasure. Both Bouhy and Santley
(who gave me lessons while I was in
London) are complimentary about my voice
and general musical ability. Santley says
the quality is purely Spanish (for which I
must thank a Spanish grandmother), and is
never heard in an English voice.” Then
Emilie digresses into notes of admiration re
the Paris Opera House and other ornaments
of the French capital.
James Edmond drops in from the smok-
ing-room of the Kurnano Maru, in Northern
waters: —•
I am becoming acquainted with the Captain and
the cookery and the ship’s cat. They are all good.
The only bad thing on board is the ship’s pen. There
are two pens on the inkstand, and each one of them
is worse than both of them put together. Passed Cape
Moreton this morning. I had my early education
there on the old Rodondo, now, I hope, dead and
gone to its great reward. It was many years ago,
and the cargo consisted chiefly of myself and cock-
roaches. Owing to insufficient cockroaches, the ship
stood up like a wall, and when the gale struck us
we tottered on our last legs ,on the face of the waters
and put one foot in the grave. For two hours we
struggled to get round. Cape Moreton, in the hope
that once round it we might crawl in shore in the
lee of a prawn, or a blade of grass or something. I
had one companion on deck on that voyage, a man
very much older than myself. He was swearing in
three dead languages—l knew they were dead
because they were s'o high. I proceeded to make
a few observations also, but he said my style was
feeble, and I was only watering the milk. So Cape
Moreton is associated with my early education in the
days when the Rodondo wallowed with us and a
heavy cargo of cockroaches.
Mr. J. Spencer Brunton came back from
Europe’s war-worn face ahead of his family.
They still linger in the grey old city by the
Thames.
Who’s the Hqn. Thomas McClintock
Bunbury, I wonder? When lie turned up
his cuffs for work, he was private secretary
to Big George Reid. A guarded remark that
Bunbury is about to step out of his Com-
monwealth billet to draw a wage at the
Imperial Institute floats through the Eng-
lish press.
When last heard of, the seraphic smile
of Percy Grainger was located in Berlin. If
the Adelaide pianist has found time to get
engaged or married, the news hasn’t reached
this side of Australia, to the best of my
belief. When the ethereal-looking Percy
was in Sydney a few years ago, Mamma
Grainger was so frequently at his elbow that
impressionable maidens could only fling an
enraptured glance at his golden thatch from
a 10 or 20 yards’ range.
Baronet Joe Ward (M.L.) is reported to
be packing up his hairbrushes for another
jaunt to London. The rumor that reached
my ear had a determined pretence of being
on the mark, and mentions details. The
flight will be soon and hurried, and Mrs.
Baronet and the daughter are likely to be
at Ward’s right hand on the trip.
Mr. R. Morris, who is postmaster in
Christchurch (M.L.) when he’s at work, is
a tennis enthusiast in his spare moments.
He found the health he was searching for in
a recent holiday saunter round the South
Sea islets, and takes it with him to Mel-
bourne after a look-in here. The Davis Cup
is the sight he’s going to sample in Victoria.
The wedding of Barnum-Powell was pre-
ceded by a vigorous course of judicious social
advertising in the London press. The bride-
elect, Miss Soames, was perpetually inter-
viewed and profusely illustrated with that
fine showman, B. P., by her side. Barnum,
of Mafeking, practically admitted that he
couldn’t teach this Commonwealth how to
shoulder arms. But I notice he still pushes
the small boy scout to the front in his en-
gaged and wedding press ads. Lady B.
Powell (then Miss Soames) interviewing
an awe-stricken little urchin on a Scout
launch, seemed fairly on the track to be a
Mrs. Barnum of some tonnage.
Tenor Sid Macdonald will be handed a
complimentary concert in the Town Hall,
towards the end of this month. A strong-
minded, able-bodied committee is fighting
for success. It remarks, in a pale-green
circular, that this local singer has been
always ready to uplift his voice in the cause
of charity. H. N. Southwell, one of the
conveners in charge of the affair, is at pre-
sent viewing the Horse at Flemington.
In a tame week it is exhilarating to dip
into the London half-penny fashion notes
which provide a suitable diet for the silly
season. “Only one thing,” says the shrill
voice of caustic comment, “will be lacking
from the well-dressed woman’s outfit this
season —a whipping.” Style, it appears, will
clothe the female form in peg-top skirts.
These garments are after the Turkish-De-
light harem cut, only rather more so. They
bag at the hips and waist, and harrow down
to a yard or less about the knees and ankles,
to which they cling like a glove. They are
slit at the sides to give the enclosed lady a
chance to say her prayers. Variety being the
spice of the dressmaker’s bills, the 1913 lady
who objects to lobk like a top will swathe
herself in penguin drapery. This Antarctic
fancy is made in the form of a black-and-
white beaded-cloth coat. Its small stiff
sleeves are built to look like the abbreviated
side-whiskers or wings of the Emperor pen-
guin.
Prom Chicago comes a fat roll of songs,
written and published by Olive Chryse
Parker, of the City of Pork —the place from
which the Self-Made Hog wrote the Letters
(on crackling) to his Son. As a handsome
sample of the American art of advertising,
this alluring music pile leads ordinary shop-
window goods by a few lengths. The songs,
set to Mrs. Olivh’s new compositions, are
“You,” “A Twilight Song,” “A Winter’s
Day,” etc. They ought to sell like hot pies
for their covers, which are decorated with
violets as large as life, and as perfect as the
best three-color process can make them.
The melodies that flow inside are full of
new digressions from the conventional rut.
The W.C.T.U. Convention usually combs
out of the morals of this city about the time
the Horse is whisking round the Cup in
Melbourne. At present, the Cold Tea-party
is getting its elastic-sided boots into march-
ing trim, so as to make the little grocer with
the wine license fly for his life, or drown
himself in a tank of lemonade. The Order
of the Swift Get Out will also he handed
to the barmaid when the W.C.T.U. can place
its serious black-cotton gloves on some vul-
nerable place in that haughty damsel’s
armor. The Ginger-beer ladies affirmed,
the other day, through the mouth of Mrs. C.
Stewart, that they heard “from reliable
sources” that the Japanese have wo war-like
intentions. You will also be pleased to hear,
Arini, that the sick and poor round about
Sydney are being fed, gratis, by the
W.C.T.U. —on temperance tracts. In return.
I move a resolution that a book called “The
Tragedy of Korea” be placed beside the
peaceful water-jug of the next Band of Hope
convention.
Chappell and Co., Ltd., send along a small
library of music. Before dipping into the
score, I notice, that this firm is breaking out
in the American manner by “featuring”
daring covers. “The Pelican’s Parade,” a
simple one-step hop, by Dorothy Forster,
has a procession of educated pelicans, of
the afternoon-block species, stamping across
its cover. “The Clown’s Serenade,” de-
scribed as an intermezzo two-step, by a
composer with the florid name Pedro de
Zulueta, is so gorgeously covered that it's
inside is sampled with the respect it de-
serves. It is a melodious trifle suitable for
the technique of Miss Flapper’s younger
sister. “Beyond the Meadow Gate” (a
vocal duet), “Sweet Eyes of Blue” (same
old idea in a new dress), and other honeyed
ditties are up to the average love-song.
Dorothy Forster sets some tuneful chords
to accompany Harold Simpson’s “Wonder-
ful Garden of Dreams,” which has the
fanciful refrain that floats on “Wings of
Love” and similar aeroplanes of uncertain
temper.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
J. Moore Robinson, who is F.R.G.S. as
well as journalist, has given up the job of
sub-editing the Hobart Daily Post, to be
secretary of the Tasmanian Tourist Associa-
tion at £350 a year. As Robinson can
enthuse mellifluously anent the Speck’s
numerous beauty spots, he ought to prove a
success in the billet. Last year he pub-
lished an interesting booklet on the origin of
Tasmanian place-names, and reaped a har-
vest of considerable praise.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
m.
CefS
m
.
m
Engraved Silver Hand Mirror
(Length 10J inches),
£2/15/-
CALL A ID INSPECT HARDY BROS.' NEW CHRISTMAS STOCK.
ă
Engraved Silver Hair Brush
(Length 9J inches),
£l/9/- each.
A COMPLETE TOILET SET CAN BE PROCURED IN THIS PATTERN,
OR ODD PIECES SUPPLIED
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON OFFICE: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS.
7
A
K
MJ
Norman Lindsay’s Book
M-
The Cleverest Book Ever
Published in Australia.
1 /-
Post Free, 1/1
Mr. Norman Lindsay is the most Brilliant and Versatile of Australian
Illustrators. He has made NORMAN LINDSAY’S BOOK, with his
whole heart, and with all his Celebrated Artistic Skill.
Bright Humor. Lively Letterpress.
The Kind of Stories and Verses Everybody Likes to Read*
By EDWARD DYSON,
MONTAGUE GROVER,
GRANVILLE SEDLEY,
G J. DENNIS,
“ KODAK/’
and NORMAN LINDSAY himself.
SEVENTY DRAWINGS by Norman Lindsay
giving every Phase of the Wonderful Versatility of the
Work of Australia's Foremost Black-and-White Artist.
NOW ON SALE. 1
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney; and all Booksellers.
Does Music Set
You Humming?
DOES waltz time make you sway ; do your feet
start to mark time when a march begins to
play P Does the “Spring Song” make your
heart feel glad and other pieces make it sad P
Then you have music in your soul and would
make a good musician. But you have to play in
some new way —the way of the
a
yy
&
STILCfi PIANOLA PIANO
Played in Two Ways
By Hand.
By Music=roll.
With the Steck Pianola Piano yon become the equal of the better
kind of pianist—-you excel him, for you can play anything ever written
and never miss a note. The pianist studies and practises all his life, but
you need not. Don’t ask someone else to perform your favorite airs—
play them yourself. Don’t be content with any interpretation. The Steck
Pianola Piano lets you put your own feeling into a composition. \ou
play as your taste dictates with an entire absence of feeling.
You can never reach the limit of the Steck Pianola Piano, for it is
limitless in its musical possibilities. Do not imagine your first attempt
—though it will be good—can equal your fiftieth or ten thousandth
rendering. You always improve.
Wouldn’t it be worth your while to investigate this instrument?
Wouldn’t it seem strange that you, who never played, could do so at once?
Let us send you a Catalog of the Steck Pianola Piano. We will send it
free if you will write and ask for Catalog It.
MODERATE MONTHLY PAYMENTS WHEN DESIRED
LIBERAL ALLOWANCES ON OLD PIANOS .
m» «im<|
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
88 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE;
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
London, Berlin, New York, etc.
t*‘*™f*> r
-4
!s?* M
w rni CIKMAN im*Uvj«


Appreciated by Practical Men
FARMER’S
SHAVING SETS.
If a man is pleased with a handsome gift, you can depend
upon it he is doubly pleased when it is practical as well as
handsome.
This Nickel Shav'ng Set is one of the examples of
Farmer’s Sterling Values. The bevelled mirror can be
moved to any angle required, and is on a Telescopic Nickel
Stand, enabling it to be raised or lowered as desired. The
Shaving Cups are of Porcelain, and the Brush is of Badger
hair, with Nickel Handle.
Price 20/-
Other designs. 7/-, 10/6, 13/6, 18/6, 21/- to
57/6.
OUR STOCK OF GOODS SUITABLE FOR GIFTS
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY AND VALUE.
ą
FARMER’S
SYDNEY.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
Handsome lisrhfc and airy rooms; every
possible convenience.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
G. LOOSEN, General Manager.
THE ROYAL ROAD
TO HEALTH
IS FOUND BY
CLEMENTS
TONIC
The Rev. J. Hosking, D.D., Minis-
ter of the Congregational Mission
Church. Fitzroy. Melbourne, writes :
“/ suffered from Nervous Pros-
tration, Insomnia and Nervous
Headaches. One bottle of
Clements Tonic put me right, and
was worth its weight in gold!”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 4, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The padded breast of the Naval and Mili-
tary Club expanded for its ball on the night
before Derby Day. Colonel Burston shared
host duties with Admiral Creswell, and their
wives—the one in black-and-white elegance
and the other with a Rule Britannia-look-
lng drape flung nobly over one shoulder of
her otherwise pale gown —both helped in the
initial handshaking of the thousand-odd
guests. The Government House people
arrived from the Royal almost as late as 11
o clock, and so kept the usual pompous open-
in S gyrations hanging fire, what time Ad-
miral Creswell remarked with heavyweight
wit, “Baffles has committed a social bur-
glary.” The G.-G. looked sleepy—not a
good advertisement for the other amateur
show he had come from. Lady Chelmsion,
was unassumingly frocked in a black filmy
thing over a grey silk. Several red-coated
land warriors and black-and-gold naval men
swelled the string of aides that followed.
Ten minutes after this turn the Fuller mus-
tard waggons sprinted up to the door and
dumped a flustered party. Following on
the yellow streaks came whirring cars of
every color and size, containing other
theatregoers eager for a three hours frolic.
The black dresses scored in the medley of
color. Mrs. Atlee Hunt was distinguished
in sable attire; and about the most attrac-
tive female on the premises was a girl in
all-black, with pink cameo earrings
and cameo-pink cheeks. George Fuller’s
daughter, from Sydney, created a sensation
in a gold and blue dress, like a sunny day
on the harbor. Little Miss Rouse, another
smart Sydney girl, was a dainty spectacle
with her very black hair and very white
dress. Bride Mrs. Lebbeus Hordern was
one of those who enjoyed the dance; but
lots of Sydney visitors stayed indoors and
spent the evening taking the creases out of
their Derby finery for the morrow. Ivy
Clarke inhabited a pink dress and sported
a red rose in her hair. Bigjohn Forrest
wore a large smile, his dress clothes, ana a
broad belt of . ribbon round his well-ironed
chest. Captain Crespin, the new Gentle-
man Help, had his curls shorn close to avert
jealousy. It was a glad, gay scene; yet,
perhaps, the decorations had symbolical in-
tentions. The dome of the big hall dripped
with blood-red roses and the lights shone
through scarlet carnations.
The Derby Day rain fell very softly until
the women decided to risk it, and go forth
in their frail frocks. But by the time the
luncheon interval had arrived, it was obvi-
ous th'at there was something seriously
wrong with the heavenly plumbing, and that
the repairs would be a matter of hours —or
days. Hundreds of tables under the elms
had been eagerly secured, and the anxious
hostesses measured with their eyes the dis-
tance between grandstand and feeding shel-
ter. The wet Terrace tiles were as slippery
as glass when society, with its filmy dresses
held up to safety mark, scuttled lightly over
them like a vast flock of birds with colored
legs. At least one woman went down in all
her finery.
. The Government House people drove out
in ceremonious fashion, with horses and
postilions. They crowded the ofiic.,.! pen
in the grandstand, and most of them stayed
there. The various Governors dived off the
steps at intervals as into a river, and re-
turned dripping from the paddock, with bet-
ting tickets in their mouths. The G.-G.,
neatly garbed in black, was businesslike and
serious. Chelmsford looked expansively
bored in a grey frock suit and grey top hat.
The Denman lady wore a criss-cross orange
and black top to her black gown; her head-
gear comprised expensive and unruly white
plumes. The Chelmsford lady looked like a
soft little grey squirrel. Mrs. King-Hall was
in soft, mouse-colored tailorings; and the
Bosanquet twins brightened up the box with
gay little nodding pink roses in their hats.
Auntie Phipps was impressive and handsome
m a hat that shot heavenward at one side.
An adequate supply of Gentleman Helps
stood shoulder to shoulder with her, and she
was one of the few women who dared to ven-
ture from shelter.
Many egrets were ruined. Mrs. Jack Wal-
lace wandered round with a big bunch of the
feathers waving loosely on the extreme back
edge of a wide hat brim. Mrs. Norton Grim-
wade had a bashed collection hiding somewhere
in the meshes of a startling, red-spotted veil.
Mrs. Trenchard had brown bits of the plun-
der set above a rose chiffon, fur-trimmed
gown that never should have been taken out
m such weather. Mrs. George Kelly was
wrapped, regally in an expanse of purple oil-
skin, with purple ostrich dusters weeping
from her crown. Eugenie Duggan Anderson
wore some plumes on the port side of her
hat.. Maud Ogilvie, a Sydney girl who is
staying with one of the Governors, showed
a glimpse of pretty white neck under the rim
of a canary-colored hat, and turned neat
white linen shoulders to a staring world
while she talked to Chamberlain Nevill.
Some brave woman buried in the massed mil-
linery of the vice-regal box supported the
allegedly unlucky peacock feathers. Mrs.
Everard Browne’s sporting enthusiasm
took her into the open, despite the fact that
she was supporting a priceless hat.
The Grey-Egerton lady was almost ex-
tinguished under a rain-coat; but daughter
Aimee Clarke walked bravely in blue, and
dared the weather. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald
wore a big, white plush collar ''to her black
velvet motoring coat. She hostessed her
lunch party; then, having done her social
duty, motored home through the mud. Mrs.
“Dewar” Thiel walked handsomely in sap-
phire blue with a well-cut blue surcoat
swinging smartly.
It was a big day, and the great crowd
stayed bravely till the last race, hoping
against hope for some sunshine. The foun-
tain on the lawn fired back bravely at the
unrelenting heavens; but to the very end of
the day people were cowering under acres
of black umbrellas.
Maoriland sent over a fairly big contin-
gent of Cup junketers this year, amongst
them the Studholmes, who own sheep and
acres in fertile Wairarapa. About 10 years
ago they were married from the Hopetouns’
whare, the bride, Miss Wauchope, being a
cousin of the Linlithgow lady. On this visit
Mrs. Fred Payne is their hostess.
Last week, Mrs. Davey slid gracefully out
of the centre chair on the mayoral dais by
giving a party to welcome Mrs. D. V.
Hennessy. It was a very well-dressed party,
yet very informal, and with a unique homely
charm. Hennessy and the outgoing Davey
distributed brotherly smiles on the staircase.
Mrs. Davey had Mrs. Charlie Beauchamp, a
vision in blue, to help her greet the guests.
Mrs. Davey’s black ostrich feathers eclipsed
anything yet torn out of the exaggerated
fowl that is foolish enough to grow them.
Mrs. Ilennessy’s principal outbreak was in
beautiful lace.
Mrs. George Chirnside’s ball for her
debutante daughter excited St. Kilda last
Thursday. The local Town Hall, which
still shows a bare, unfinished face of brick
to the world, was made more presentable by
outside decorations, consisting of potted pop-
lars and silver beeches, with lights in their
branches. The same fairylike glims dimly
illuminated cosy sitting-out corners cushi-
oned in red. (While on the subject, I may
say that some of the Very Best People re-
cently discovered that English girls were
brought up under glass. The system is being
carefully imitated here. It promises to be
irksome for the local flapper, who has quite
a different environment.) The supper-room
of the raw edifice was also rescued from its
plain everydayness by green silk wall-hang-
ings and rose-patterned cretonne covers for
the chairs. Mrs. Stewart McArthur’s dress
was the most sensational garment of the
evening. It was like a leopard’s skin—
tawny dull silk, with brown, velvety spots,
and almost as close-fitting as tbe big tree-
cat’s pelt. The small debutante Chirnside
daughter was a lovely, fragile picture in
white; and Mamma, in blue and silver,
looked not more than two and a half years
older.
At last week’s Chirnside dance Lord
Dicky Nevill was in charge of Governor
Bosanquet’s twin girls, the handsome Miss
Ogilvie (Sydney) and the Barttelot couple.
The Madden dame, besides daughters Lesly
and Ruby Osborne, had niece Bingham
Hordern and her diamonds under her wing.
The Grey-Egerton lady, in paddy-green, wore
her tiara well over her eyebrows, according
to the latest fashion; but it didn’t prevent
her from keeping a watchful eye on daugh-
ter Aimee and the Grey-Egerton miss. Mrs.
Everard Browne’s three flappers, with their
hair hanging down their backs, followed the
doings of a bravely-clad mommer. Mrs. Ber-
tram Chambers wandered about in a
shadowy lace garment, and Mrs. Klug
carried a butter-hued train of ninon encum-
bered with ermine. Miss Aileen Bell, from
Queensland, looked well in amber; so did
the pretty Lascelles girl, from Geelong way,
in leaf green decked with roses. Mrs. Fred
Keats contributed a Burne-Jones sunset
effect to the gathering.
Louise Smith-Dyer and her husband
brought off their rather solemn frivol in the
picture room at the Exhibition. The youth-
ful matron, wearied by many hours of wait-
ing for a promised Paris garment, eventually
clothed her sadness in a two-weeks-old gown
of pale banana satin, top-dressed with gold
thread. Mrs. D. V. Hennessy, in a magpie
arrangement, clutched a bunch of roses and
looked about with a nervous smile. The
Weedon dame was a comfortable figure in
blue. The function aimed at novel effects,
and small dancing maidens loaded the guests
with vegetable offerings. The programme
of music was divided into two parts, the
latter half being given in the fernery among
the parrots (caged variety). Meanwhile,
occasional cooling drops from the overhang-
ing foliage fell with deadly precision on bare
shoulders and caused various alarms. One
victim pulled her top skirt over her bare-
ness, and looked like Mrs. Ajax defying the
rainstorm.
The Denman lady, with summer flowers
in her rustic hat, made the opening remarks
at the Rose Show last week, when the in-
terior of the Town Hall was transformed
into a dewy Eden without the snake. The
Botanical Gardens contributed barrowloads
of non-competitive blooms ; Rossi and Alis-
ter Clarke (who boasts one of the show gar-
dens of Victoria) had stands in the centre;
Rosarian women hung baskets brimful of
blooms round the balcony; and somebody
had scattered a huge armful of full-blown,
pink and white Mildred Grants. Poor Mil-
dred is no longer fashionable; but she is
fragrant and her tinting is lovely, so she is
still received in rose society. It was a
record year for entries —and, judging by the
talk, a record year also for the collapsible
caterpillar and other plagues.
After attending to the flower function, the
Denman lady ran upstairs to give a fare-
well pat to the Arts and Grafts Exhibition,
which, for a prosperous fortnight, had been
a tenant of the upper supper-rooms.
“Raffles,” for sweet charity’s sake, drew
only a smart and motored crowd to the
Royal. Even the front rows of the gallery
had been reserved at 6s. a space, and the
mere public was represented only by a hand-
ful of folk ’way back among the gods, who
looked as though they had wandered in by
accident. The vice-regals in the centre of
the d.c. were flanked by the Mayoral Daveys
on one hand, and by a young parson with a
lilies-of-the-valley buttonhole on the other —
apparently the chaplain-in-ordinary to the
Excellencies. “Raffles” turned out to be a
supremely foolish melodrama under non-
professional treatment. The company did
well enough individually—nobody failed at
every point—but the wild impossibility of
it all verged on the ridiculous whenever the
plot thickened. Captain Curwen struggled
pluckily with the difficult character of Bun-
ny, Mrs. Arthur Harris was weaker in her
walk than in her talk, and Mrs. Guy Miller,
Miss Athol \Levey, Miss May Ryan and other
amateurs of importance wanted some of the
confidence of Spencer Holroyd, the old-
stager of the crowd.
Matthew Davies’s daughter Muriel, who
already wears a scientific train of letters
after her name, took the degree of Doctor
of Medicine the other day. Now she is to
have the degree of Mrs. to wear at the other
end of her name. Dr. Konrad Hiller and a
clergyman will be the other parties to this
ceremony, which is to happen on November
6, at Mentone, where the one-time very
wealthy knight and his family have been
living lately.
Nina and Joan Bagot and Edith Hope-
Campbell, three of Melbourne’s dog-
admirers, have cheerfully cut out the races
and gone off for a motor tour. Shadow, an
aristocratic black Pomeranian, is included
in the party. The Bagot sisters can man-
age a car as well as their brother, Harry
Bagot, who fills the place in motoring and
cycling circles that his father, the late R. C.
Bagot, used to occupy in the horse-racing
world. The adventurous girls are making
west, and will soon have the Ninety-mile
Desert within the field of their acetylene
searchlights. They carry food and cooking
utensils, as well as other light luggage. If
they happen to reach a hotel at nightfall
they will condescend to sleep there; but all
meals will be prepared and taken on board
the travelling; gas-engine. Time is ,no ob-
ject, 'and delighted progress reports have
already been wafted back from Cadiper-
down, Warrnambool and Port Fairy.
■ Walter Kirby had about an audience and
a half for his concert in the Masonic Hall
last Wednesday evening. A Gaud Mayoral
party, consisting of the waning Daveys and
the waxing Hennessys, flanked a Madden
detachment in the centre seats. General
Gordon and daughter Eileen, with a red rose
in her hair, sat still from beginning to end
of the lengthy programme. Mrs. Reggie
Clarke-Power, who is occasionally guilty of
writing little songlets, was wrapped in a
soft blue silk cloak. Mrs. Bowes Kelly
showed an expanse of fine shoulders to the
house from her seat in the second row. On
the platform, pretty little Margery Grey
played her violin brilliantly, and May
Griffiths attended to the tenor’s accompani-
ments. May’s soulful black eyes and yel-
low dress provided a contrast which fasci-
nated most people while she was visible.
Blanche Browne, in a slender blue sum-
mer frock, was recently observed on the
dummy of an up-town car. When she had
found her blue ticket, she placed her glove-
less left hand flat on the back of the seat.
Then the other passengers observed with
breathless interest that a wedding-ring was
shining on the third finger, and began to
.lump to conclusions. By this time I esti-
mate there are 27,842 relations and
friends jumping to conclusions. Personally,
I think Blanche is either ( a ) married, or
(b) just wants to see how many people
would jump.
Colonel liupert Carrington’s son, Rupert
the second, is returning to Australia after
paying >a visit to his uncle, ex-Governor
Carrington, of N.S.W. By the way, Auntie
Isabel Horsfall is booked to wed with a
Scotsman in the near future. The name of
the bridegroom-elect is a secret which her
closest friends have been unable to extract
from her. His business is understood to be
squatting in Maoriland. The lady announces
that she intends to proceed to the altar with-
out bridesmaids or wedding guests.
The big hotels are bursting with a record'
Cup crowd. The Oriental, in Collins-street
completed its re-furbishing for the glad
event, and the noiseless automatic lifts that
go up like saints’ prayers and come down
like feathers dropped from angels’ wings
take tired people from the cool, enclosed
garden where the climbing roses bloom, to
the flat roof where the breeze caresses the
head superheated by fatigue, betting losses
and other annoyances.
The Grand gave an “Arrival Party” on
Friday—the day when Sydney and Adelaide
fall into Melbourne for the race carnival.
Her Majesty’s grand opera orchestra played
a dozen or so selections, and tenor v\ alter
Kirby sang some Puccini.
St. Ivilda is watching the development of
Luna Park, ’way down wnere ' L)ream-
land” came and went some years ago. The
park just now is a mass of scaffolding and
hurrying workmen; but the huge moon-face
that is to be the main entrance is flashing
with gold-leaf, and some of the side-show
corners are taking shape. Sentimentalists
are to be provided for by a sort of covered
gutter, along which boats for two will
slowly drift. "Dreamland,” of yore, had
this in a smaller way, and patrons generally
found an Australian small boy ready to hoot
at them from the mountains of Switzerland.
After voyaging down the tunnel or _ drain,
the couples will be able to climb a flight of
marble steps, sit on a Family Herald ter-
race, and view the sea while absorbing coffee
or American drinks.
Beatrice Yaldwyn, a Bananaland beauty-
girl who has relations in Toorak, has at last
realised a stage dream. She has been in
Beerbohm Tree’s school for two years, and
recently “walked on” in a Tree production.
Now she has been engaged by Marie Tem-
pest for her tour through Ireland, and hope-
ful relatives are expecting Beatrice to turn
every rising star green with envy.
A. E. Delaney, who advanced on Europe
by the Siberian route, has proved that Dad
sometimes makes a good chaperone. He has
brought daughter Doris back to the family
circle at Kew with the significant diamond
ring glittering on the promised hand. The
fiance was attached in Paris, but the en-
gagement is to remain “a dead secret” till
it has been well tested by absence. Hence
the profound silence of these remarks.
' From my Adelaide correspondent: —
The Victoria Park racecourse was packed with Mayor
Bonython’s ratepayers on Saturday. Stirred by the lav-
ish efforts of his predecessors, Cohen, our present Mayor
used the course for the purpose of a “lawn fete,” as
they called the thing in the “Belle of New York.”
Heaven knows where civic hospitality is going to
end up. A trip round the world in a specially char-
tered P. and O. liner will probably be the next de-
velopment.
Mrs. Parsons received her brother’s guests in a
frock of ivory ninon, with lace attachments, and a
waist touch of apricot and mi»u,c. Lady Bosanquet
was in soft grey, with relieving touches of violet.
A daughter (the one that was noc in Melbourne) was
in apricot crepe de chine, with a wide hat. Chief
Justice Way’s dame wore blue, and her daughter,
Mrs. Herbert Rymill, was in white, with a be-
flowered hat and yellow sash. The Downer lady
looked smart in black and white; and the Mayor’s
youthful fiancSe, Miss Jean Warren, wore embroid-
ered muslin and a large hat with blue flowers. Also
there were the usual freaks.
On Friday the Zoo was inspected; for once in
a way it was the’ visitors who were fed. The cere-
mony is an annual affair. The animals were de-
clared to be doing as well in the matter of health and
spirits as was to be expected. By the way, the Zoo is
not only a wild-beast preserve, but also a species of
Botanical Gardens. Mr. Minchin grows there some
of the best roses in S.A. Mrs. Way, the Simpson
Newlands, E. T. Smith, Dr. and Mrs. T. G. Wilson,
the Alfred Simpsons, the Jessops, and the Misses
Hornabrook were among the animal scrutinisers.
Mrs. James Harvey and Mrs. Willie Milne and her
niece, Miss McLaren, leave for foreign parts on Nov.
7 ; and Miss Ethel Wright, of Victor Harbor, is off
early in February.
What are things coming to? At a recent show in
a big pastoral district of this State the sheep-dog
trials called forth but three competitors, and they
were all tragic incompetents. Old hands say, too,
that the horseflesh isn’t what it was. And other
pessimists aver gloomily that the drinks are growing
poorer and the women plainer week by week.
Mr. J. Cudmore went back to his Queensland
station at the beginning of the week after a brief
visit. This Cudmore is the eldest son of the late
J.F., of Paringa Hall. His mother’s failing health
called him to Adelaide.
Bertram Mackennal writes from London that the
plaster model of the King Edward memorial is
practically completed. Talking of statues, the
Sturt memorial movement is to be set going again.
An Adelaide girl has taken an office in King
AVilliam-street, and started in business as a shop-
ping agent. Her idea is to shop for country and
suburban folks who haven’t the time or inclination
to come to town and do it for themselves. I shall
be sympathetically interested to note what effect her
maddening profession has on her brain and physique.
The Harris-Scarfe burglar turns out to be a mere
lift boy. Hi's partner in crime was a duplicate key.
In two things, at least, the lad showed discrimina-
tion —namely, in the jewellery he seized and in his
choice of a companion in infamy.
Touching the imbecility of the break-of-gauge.
In a recent week 4000-odd tons of goods and about
17,000 head of stock; were transferred at Terowie,
and that is only one of the break-of-gauge stations
which we possess.
• Miss Claxton gave a tea at the May Club on
Saturday morning. The festivity was in honor of
Mrs. Ransom, the theosophical lecturer, who is pay-
ing Adelaide a visit.
The Adelaide City Council has started to fall with
suddenness and weight on the hatpin menace. There
is a widespread opinion that it is worse even than
Socialism, and henceforth hatpinners are to be
prosecuted.
Miss Alicia Bosanquet left for Melbourne on
Thursday. She is staying at Federal Government
House for the races. On the same day, I grieve to
record, the following male backsliders left for the
Great Orgie: Messrs. Neville Colley, Keith Bowman
Louis von Doussa, R. E. Hope and John Barker'
Miss Hilder Fisher and the Harold Fishers went
earlier in the week, as did Mr. T. R. Bright.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


j 'tooVe,
to d&y.,
k
J)
&c
I cerkimjy
a
o’reaJ time
- ryjif
little A
' Tot o/ if
fcjl
work, to cjet
to - da^Y
Mljl I
100 !
I 'mn>
<\ncl looks . E > ’ r °' - .
—.) t x>s**r?
r Crop d -
...... . you look. do^oU
—p do /or ' „
! -A Oh Simply fKcK Scf)v</efpe,s.
Bttnamr- Ah' w\)ere I >Tf\\de tV^e
T oilier / s>odl\!
WATTLE DAY—BIRD DAY THIS PAGE IS FATHER’S DAY


0
©IF.IF
DJDYmD
a " v, 111
lUO .10950
«3 ~«*”
mms,
as©
The LATEST and BEST.
For Soft Collars
With Front Buttonholes.
COLLAR SUPPORT, with
two Gold Gilt Studs ... 1/** each
SOFT COLLARS, best quality,
with Buttonholes in front,
White and Neat Stripes ... 1/-each
COLLAR SUPPORT, with
smart Foulard Tie attached, 2/6
Peppers Limited,
167 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
BROUGHT TO BAY.
Are those enemies of civilisation, Indigestion and
Dvspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are
employed; Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
Some time ago the Meterological Department
arranged a series of flag signals to indicate the wind
and weather forecasts. In Sydney these are flown at
the Custom House; but in order that people in an-
other part of the city may have the information
arrangements have been made with David Jones, Ltd.,
to also fly the signals. A card explaining the mean-
ing of the flags is displayed in one of the windows.*
The Union Co., of M.L., has issued an Index Guide
to its various services and the principal ports of
Australia, Tasmania, M.L., Pacific Islands, and mail
routes—to- Canada, United, States and Britain. It is
a good hand-book, and a good hand-book is one-third
the battle in touring. Another third is a good'bank
book. The last third is etceteras.*
Australian Ladies Blackmailed.
PARDONABLE INDISCRETION HEAVILY
AVENGED.
A woman who has once committed a certain very
natural and pardonable indiscretion is ever after-
wards at the mercy of her own act, unless she learns
; —as will be shown in a moment—how to free her-
self.
It is a very obvious figure of speech to say that
any lady who, afflicted by superfluous hairs on face
or arms, once uses a depilatory or cuts off the hairs
with scissors or a razor, can only be freed from the
effects in o-ne way. Unless it is treated again and
again with the cutting steel or the burning paste or
fluid, it will crop out again and again and humiliate
her by its degrading, masculine appearance. Just as
a human blackmailer must be paid again and again,
so' this silent blackmail of superfluous hair must be
dealt with again and again.
The only escape is by destroying the enemy at the
root: and this can only be accomplished in one way.
She must send for a self-acting electrolyser which
Mme. Tensfeldt, 120a Princes Street, Edinburgh,
Scotland, has invented specially for the benefit of
ladies who cannot go to her for treatment. This
apparatus, which only costs £5 5s., carriage paid,
will dissolve painlessly the root of every individual
hair. The hair cannot possibly reappear on the same
root: and this work is quite simple and painless.
When the apparatus has done its work it can be
sent back, and 25s., the second-hand value, will be
returned in exchange for it, p’-ovided this is done
within six months. Those desiring full particulars
of this treatment ought to send for a free copy of
the Booklet, “The Face Perfect,” by Madame Tens-
feldt. *
SAVE STOCK and MONEY
â
by castra t i njt
with the im-
proved instru-
ment —
DENVER’S
EMASCULATOR.
Its pri n c i pi e
absolutely pre-
vents loss of
Write for
it to-day.
45-
stock through hemorrhage.
PERFECT FOR HORSES, BULLS or RAMS.
Improved Mouth Gags, Cutters,
Drenching Bits, Rasps, 8.1 l Guns, etc.
Write tor Price List.
DENYER BROS.,
281 George Street (opp.
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Vic. Women’s National League, the
Very Naice Society which abused the mater-
nity allowance as a vote-buying scheme on
the part of the Labor Government, now in-
structs its dames to take the fiver every
time, and pay it into the political propa-
ganda fund of the W.N.L. So the League’s
criticism is to be justified. The Baby Bonus
is a vote-buying device. The League was
mistaken about the identity of the buyer,
that’s all.
THE NEXT STEP—PROVIDING THE
WAter:
The Minister for Home Affairs is inviting tenders
for the supply of oast-iron pipes for the Federal capi-
tal water supply. Tenders must be delivered, etc.
Another thumping argument in favor of a
State Fire Insurance department. Prender-
gast the other day elicited the information
that Victoria last year had insurances
effected on its public property to the amount
of £4,638,914, paid premiums totalling
£26,869, and collected only £405 for losses!
The Public Works, Railways and Mines and
Forests Departments were such safe and in-
combustible propositions that they made no
claims whatever.
Iceberg Irvine told a congregation of Mel-
bourne women the other day that Aus-
tralians were an anaemic lot, given to lean-
ing up against a post. And almost at the
moment the pallid Irvine was speaking his
piece a typical real Australian of the back-
backs was slowly hacking his arm off with
a penknife in order to release himself from
a bush trap in which he had been caught.
That’s the sort of anaemia the real Aus-
tralian suffers from !
Hatter David Storey, in the N.S.W.
Assembly the other evening
I am not a Conservative, but a true Democrat.
I believe in recognising the rights of all.
Then he announced that he would vote
against the Bill which proposes to extend
the municipal suffrage of Sydney to every
man and woman residing within the boun-
daries. The “rights of all,” in Storey’s
view, appear to be the rights of all who own
Proppu ty.
Things don’t take long to change in a
country given to wild bursts of loan-
drunkenness. Back in last May, when
winter was just setting in, and it
wasn’t much fun to be out of doors without
an overcoat, an immigrant caused a
sensation by calling in at a Sydney police
station and asking the constable to lock him
up. He said he was hungry, and was willing
to go to gaol to get food. At that time the
great drunk was still on, and people felt
indignant with the stranger for being hungry
and workless and wanting to get into gaol.
He represented the skeleton at the feast, and
there didn’t seem to be any excuse for a skele-
ton. If he had been a ghost haunting a per-
fectly new mansion, he couldn’t have excited
more scorn. It is only six months since that
stranger stalked like the advance agbnt of
Hunger through the daily papers* but already
the aspect of things has changed wonderfully.
The bottom has fallen out of the loan boom,
and a small army of men have been told not
to trouble the pay-office again. And the
hungry immigrant of last winter threatens
to be too frequent to provoke any astonish-
ment whatever.
The alleged backbone of Australia needs a
terrible lot of financial stiffening. Victoria,
not content with buying and cutting up land,
bringing'tons of water to it from long dis-
tances, and then trapesing round the earth
inducing farmers to come and cultivate irri-
gated blocks that have been acquired on ex-
ceptionally easy
terms, has now taken
to teaching the “back-
bones” the rudiments
of their business.
Three experts have
been appointed to go
round and tell the
newcomers what to do
and when and how to
do it. There remains
little more for the
State to do for the
self-reliant Anti-Sosh
soil - tickler beyond
getting in his crops
and banking the money for him.
What a farce is the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s refusal to carry letters addressed
to Tatt., or any “black-listed” agent thereof!
Tatt. issued 200,000 tickets at ss. 2d. for
the Caulfield Cup, and half a million at ss.
2d., besides 100,000 at 10s. 4d., for the
Melbourne Cup. The Postal Department’s
action has served only to create a new army
of agents for the firm which is operating
legally in Hobart, and which gives in com-
mission to those agents the money formerly
devoted to other brands of advertising. And
besides being futile, the law against Tatt.’s
is demoralising, since it floods the land with
law-breakers, Whom the community in gen-
eral regards as boons.
While the iron is hot from the Mount
Lyell furnace, the Tasmanian Government
ought to weld it into a Miners’ Accident
Fund. N. S. Wales has had such an insur-
ance and pension scheme going for more than
10 years, so there is plenty of experience to
go upon. For ninepence a fortnight contri-
buted by everybody working in or about a
mine, reinforced by an equal amount con-
tributed half each by the employer and the
State, the battered workman can get 15s. a
week while he lives and the widow can be
provided with 10s. a week for herself and 3s.
a week for each child, besides a few other
benefits. The figures are not dazzling enough
to make you blink, but they do away with
the humiliating cadge that follows every big
mining accident elsewhere. Also- —and this
is the most important thing of all —when
John Jones is killed in a plain, unfrilled and
unnoticed way by the fall of a casual stone,
his widow gets just the same help as the
relict of the man who loses his life in a
sensational smash which shakes up public
sympathy.
THE UNGALLANTS.
If the right people are not in office, remove them and send others there. —Prime Minister Fisher at a
manufacturers’ dinner.
Miss Australia: “Please hand me my cloak, Mr. Fisher .”
FISHER: “ Won't .”
MISS AUSTRALIA (turning to Deakin): “My cloak , please, Mr. Deakin."
DEAKIN: “A thousand pardons, madam; but—hem! I’m tied to this person! "
George Feed advocates “Pacifica” as the
new name for the Commonwealth capital at
Yass-Canberra. What’s the matter with the
old “Yass-No?”
TRYING HIM WITH NEW BAIT.
The failure of the N.S.W. loan is ascribed to in-
sufficient advertising. It is proposed that one of the
Ministers should visit London, with the object of
personally interesting financiers; but none of the
prominent men can be well spared at the moment.
News item.
Something having mysteriously gone wrong
w ith the N.S.W. Government’s scheme to
borrow £3,000,000 in Paris, Agent-General
Coghlan was, a week or so ago, put on to the
job of extracting £1,500,000 from good old
J. Bull Cohen. But good old J. Bull Cohen
was so frigidly unresponsive that, in spite o.
all sorts of temptations, he applied tor much
less than half the total, and left the ex-
pensive underwriters to supply the balance
and unload it on to the market as the chance
offers.
The Federal Workers’ Compensation Bill,
pushed through the Representatives last
week, threatens to do a lot of good, especially
in Victoria. It provides that any employee
may recover for injuries if his disablement
lasts longer than a week and notice of in-
tention to claim is lodged inside six months.
In the event of his death his relations or
executors may claim. The rates of com-
pensation are distinctly moderate, not to ?"y
niggardly, which is, indeed, about the only
flaw in the measure. For the death of a
person wholly supporting others, a sum equal
to three years wages may be claimed, but
the amount must not go beyond £5OO, which
seems a poor price for an able-bodied wage-
earner. Total or partial disablement will
entitle the victim to half wages, but the sum
paid is not to exceed 30s. per week, and that
seems a poor price, too. Where a disnute
arises regarding a claim, the matter will go
to arbitration, the Commonwealth paying
the costs; and, failing a settlement that way,
the County Court will decide the issue.
The doddering Argus is enraged at Pre-
mier Watt for daring to ask that an Aus-
tralian should fill an Australian billet, the
billet in question being a Professorship, of
Economics at the Melbourne University.
She moans a column full of old lady’s logic,
and concludes her tirade by exhorting the
members of the arid University Council to
suffer no dictation, but to learn up their dead-
est Greek and hurl it at Watt, unless he gives
them public money to use according to their
own moth-eaten ideas. Presumably the
Argus reckons that its own economics are
of as much importance as the University’s;
yet when did the Argus, foreign-souled as
it is, last import an editor?
The Victorian House of Landlords jus-
tified itself in the eyes of its upholders, the
other day, by heaving out of Premier Watt’s
Closer Settlement Amendment Bill the clause
providing for the compulsory purchase of
land by the Governor-in-Council instead of
by resolution of both Houses. There must
have been, at different times, about a score
of attempts made by the Victorian Assembly
to build an effective compulsory-purchase
scheme. Each time the House of Fat has
put a rotten brick into the foundations, so
to speak, and the structure has fallen to
pieces. Justice and the public weal would
be served if the edifice fell heavily on Fat
one day and blotted him right out.
WRITTEN ON THE NEW LEAF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Minister for Defence (Senator _ Pearce) re-
ceived a cable message from the British Admiralty
to-dav, stating that the steam trials of the Aus-
tralian cruiser Melbourne had been started on Tues-
day. The warship reached Greenock on Wednesday.
The preliminary trials were satisfactory. —News item.
The flagship’s buoy no cable holds —Farm Cove is
empty quite ;
No more the winking Morse lamp sends its message
through the night;
And though you walk for hours along the winding
Sydney streets,
You’ll find few cap-bands blazoned with the names of
British fleets ;
It’s Parramatta, Warrego and Yarra all the way,
With now and then a Tingira, on shore-leave from
the Bay.
New names for old, and though the old in some ways
saw us through,
The times are changed and new ships come the
larger work to do.
By Garden Island, huddled close, three little hulls
crouch low
Upon the grey-blue sea to which their namesake
rivers flow ;
In honest daylight hard to find, by night what human
eye
Can hope to find these hounds of death when through
the seas they fly?
But cuddled there, inert, at peace, they look like
dogs that wait
Until their cruiser-mistresses approach the wide sea-
gate ;
Then squat Australian Death will race to meet the
proud sea-dames
That bear across Australia’s seas the rival cities’
names.
The time is close at hand; the weight upon our
shoulders slips.
But who will murmur or complain? These are real
fighting ships—
Not foolish scrap-heap hulks sent out a bargain to
complete,
But racing monarchs, staunch, well-armed and fit for
any fleet.
Who mourns for British cruisers old, or dancing tars
who flew
When warm November came around the Melbourne
Cup to view?
No! Young Australia, growing up, is done . with
follies old ;
No more for sea-pie messes will his heritage be sold.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


a*
m
iMW
p
lIIJ
• -
■ >i 0 ir
4iWm-
r
me.
EMM
You need the
Claviola Piano-Player
in your home
because it brings to every member of your family, old or
young, with or without piano-playing ability, the power
to produce correctly in Tone, Touch and Interpre-
tation, the great musical works for the piano —from
operatic, classical and sacred music to the latest popular
waltzes. It does away with all the years of constant study,
drudgery and practice in learning to play by hand.
The Cabinet CL A VIOLA, for attachment to any grand or upright piano,
has a handsome appearance, and is an acquisition to any drawing-room. But
it is not the artistic outward appearance that has won for the CL AVI OLA the
great superiority it so justly enjoys, but its wonderful construction. It is made
in a most ingenious manner by highly skilled workmen, and is constructed of
specially selected materials.
There is an entire absence of rubber and other perishable materials in the
Claviola. THE TUBES ARE MADE OE METAL AXI) THE BELLOWS
OF A SPECIALLY PREPARED LEATHER. These EXCLUSIVE
FEATURES not only produce the finest possible results, by doing away with
the troubles of leaky tubes and bellows, but they ensure longer life for your
instrument.
The Claviola plays the Artists’ Music Rolls, exact records note for note,
expression for expression, of the actual playing of celebrated pianists, and they
produce artistic results that stand positively unapproached.
We shall appreciate a visit from you to our CLAVIOLA SALOX, where
one of our Salesmen will demonstrate in full, the merits df'this''wonderful
instrument. We sell the CLAVIOLA for cash or on easy Time Payments
extending over one, two or three years.
The CLAVIOLA PIANO-PLAYER.
Interesting Art Booklet, fully describing tlie CLAVIOLA,
post free to any address on application.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at
Newcastle, Lismore, Brisbane & Toowoomba.
-
'■‘•i
m
sc
w
The Experience
of 97 Years
in Every Bottle.
r
rr«*
This is
the Camera
You Want
for the
Summer.
Folding Victor-Klito Camera
This series of Camera is made in various grades at
prices from 25/= up to £lO for glass plates,
and P.C. size, 5)4 x 3y^.
Its special feature is its suitability either for Hand
or Stand Camera work. They are fully described
and illustrated in
HARRINGTONS’
NEW CATALOGUE.
IT IS FREE.
SEND NOW.
[td
I
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), WELLINGTON (N.Z.).


Martin's Fills are sold by'all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you set the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
International Patents \ and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street.
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE." Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
DYSPEPSIA.
WHAT A SYDNEY WOMAN SUFFERED
—AND HOW RELIEF CAME FROM
TAKING DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT
PILLS.
There is no person more to be pitied than
the dyspeptic, who, if he eats at all, is in
dread of the consequences which he knows
from experience are sure to follow. When
a remedy is found to relieve the terrible
agony endured after every meal, a feeling
of gratitude only remains. Such an one is
Emily Barry, 98 Dowling Street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, who writes :
“I have in the past suffered the torture of
dyspepsia and indigestion, which lasted for
a period of eight months, during which time
I was under treatment in St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital, but that did -very little good. I used
'to gasp with pain, which I would get be-
tween the shoulder blades, like the stab of a
knife. I would plhce my hands behind my
back to ease these pains, and keep them
there until the sinews in them would become
contracted. The sharpness of these attacks
was so dreadful that I could scarcely breathe,
and hardly walk about. At last, seeing Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills advertised, I
thought I would try them. I had not fin-
ished one bottl'e before I noticed an im-
provement, and continued their use until now
I seem entirely free from the trouble. I have
pleasure in recommending them to others,
and if you wish' you can use this for publica-
tion purposes.*
ILegal Notices.
U/ILL OF ANDREW INKSTER, deceased, late of
** Yodda Valley, Papua, and afterwards of Ingle-
burn, in the State? of New South Wales. WHEREAS
by his Will dated the 15th day of November 1909
Andrew Inkster (otherwise known as Andrew L.
Inkster) who died on the twenty-eighth day of July
One thousand nine hundred and ten gave and be-
queathed all his estate to his mother sisters and
brother to be divided equally amongst those still
living. AND WHEREAS Letters of Administration
with the said Will annexed were granted to
FREDERICK WALLIN by the Supreme Court of
New South Wales in its Probate Jurisdiction on the
second day of August One thousand nine hundred and
eleven, NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
creditors and other persons having claims against the
estate of the said Andrew Inkster whether under the
said Will or otherwise are required to send in their
claims to the undersigned on or before the thirty-
first day of March One thousand nine hundred and
thirteen in default whereof the said estate will be
distributed amongst the parties entitled thereto with-
out regard to any claims of which no notice has been
given.
WILLIAM ALFRED GTLDER,
Proctor, 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N. S. Wales.
5E333
LACER
. , , - • • t « • i V- ••* *— * • ‘
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH'S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices: Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
By next week the Horse Editor will have
10,000 reasons to explain exactly why Uncle Sam
did not win the Melbourne Cup, instead of running
only third. At present he is receiving consolation
from the Religious Editor, whose own fancy was
Piastre, the winner. Hallowmas, the mysterious
English horse, ran second.
* * * *
Horsey authorities declared last week that
Uncle Sam couldn’t win the Melbourne Cup on the
track work he had been getting. Certainly trainer
Whitty seemed to be letting the Caulfield hero off
very lightly in his preparation for the two miles
test, although the old inflexible axioms of the train-
ing class are no longer accepted as gospel. Alec
Taylor, of Ballarat, used to say that one couldn’t
reap where he had not sown. To get a great two-
mile gallop out of a horse, with the colors up, it
was necessary to put a lot of long, strong work into
him, the old-time trainers had been taught.
* * * *
Goes without saying that hundreds of
holiday punters at Flemington this week are amazed
to read the starting-prices recorded in the news-
papers next morning. A rank outsider for the Cup
figures at 66 to lor 100 to lin print. But the
artless punter who backed it with the first bookie
he appealed to was content to take 33’s or 50’s.
And even in the case of a favorite the difference be-
tween the price offered to the mug and the quota-
tion given by the newspapers is almost as wide, pro-
portionately, as in the case of a rank outsider, or of
one in the middle of the betting. A “20 to 1’
chance in the newspaper report was only “12 to 1 to
you, sir,” when the hot-headed punter backed it.
He might,, perchance, have got 20 to 1 somewhere
had he pushed his way from Ikey to Ikey, always
refusing Shylockian offers, until he struck one who
wanted the sovereign very badly indeed. For the
majority of backers at a Cup meeting the lotalisa-
tor would add fully 50 per cent, to the average
value of their sporting chance, and the trouble, annoy-
ance and headache that the Tote spared them would
be worth another pound or two.
Talkipg of Trafalgar’s long list of achieve-
ments, nobody has remarked that he was naturally a
more popular idol in Sydney than in Melbourne.
He won more races, and was not nearly so olten
unplaced, at Randwick than on the Melbourne courses.
As a three-year-old Trafalgar was seven times un-
placed at Caulfield and Flemington, whereas his only
visit to Sydney that season gave lnm three wins
(including 'the Cup) and one second. As a fiye-year-
old he won three times in Sydney, once only in Mel-
bourne, and once in Adelaide; and, whereas Comedy
King beat him three times on the Flemington course,
he beat Comedy King twice out of three times at
Randwick. # *
A “good old sport” in a deeply sentimental
mood is as unconsciously humorous as a fat man in a
fury. The retirement of Trafalgar from racing busi-
ness has been a grand opportunity for the g.o.s. to
express his finest feelings. One of him suggested
that Trafalgar, with jockey Smith on his back,
should walk around the course at Flemington before
the Cup is run, followed by the admiring roars of
an excited populace. Another old sport went one
better than that. He wrote: ‘ I would suggest that
Trafalgar be ridden by Australia’s premier trainer,
Walter S. Hickenbotham, of Carbine repute, and to
whom Trafalgar in the main owes his brilliant
career. There are hundreds like myself who remem-
ber ‘Walter’ as a jockey, and would be delighted to
asrain see him in the saddle, in the unique circum-
stances suggested. It would be a history-making scene
of delirious applause.” Only the imagination of a
Good Old Sport could picture with delight the great
circus act of grave and reverend Hickenbotham,
spectacles "on nose, disguised as a^ -jockey, whilst
Trafalgar bore him gently around the course, and
the band played “Auld Lang Syne. ,
The dampness of Derby Day at Fleming-
ton seemed to take all the curl out of the jubilation
of even those who backed more winners than losers.
For that matter, the weather was so bad for betting
business, especially when the Melbourne Stakes was
on hand, that hundreds of depressed punters pre-
ferred to remain under cover. Finally, they re-
turned to town haunted by a suspicion that two or
three of the results might prove to be misleading,
so far as future events go, on account of the dirty
conditions. It was a beast of a day.
The Derby market must have persuaded a good
many pirnters to take four to one about Ciuer or
Wolawa in preference to two to one or five to two
The short price against the Caulfield
Guineas’ winner was not justified on paper. Burra-
wang had looked like a good one when he cantered
home for the mile race; but as compared with the
champion two-year-olds of last season, one of whom
had recently captured the Sydney Derby, the favorite
was an unknown quantity. The race suggested that
D miles is too far for Burrawang in the best three-
year-old company. Otherwise it was unsatisfactory.
Cider, bolting away, with- the lead for want. of a
pacemaker, appeared to be fighting with his jockey
for the first half of his journey. Wolawa, followed
closelv by the favorite, caught Cider before they
turned into the straight, and eventually wore hint
down. Perdita, coming fast out of the ruck, finished
a good third for the slow run race. So, for the third
year in succession, the Randwick Derby form was re-
versed at Flemington. Wolawa had improved Very
considerably in .the meantime, ahd on appearances
he was the best of the bunch last Saturday. All the
same, if he had made the pace and Cider had waited
on him, the result might have been different.
Evidently the books thought they knew something
against the character of Duke Foote before the Mel-
bourne Stakes, or they would never have invited
backers with offers of nine to four and five to two.
Certainly the star’s restiveness in the saddling pad-
dock was discouraging to his idolators. He “jumped
about a bit,” like a horse not thoroughly wound up
or quite easy in his mind. Moreover, he was said
to be looking not so bright as he had looked at
Randwick. On the other hand, Lady Medallist was
reckoned certain to run a great race for the Stakes,
although she seemed a trifle spiritless. If the mare
had a chance to beat the Duke under ordinary cir-
cumstances, the driving rain must have spoilt it.
She never made a show. Duke Foote beat Eudorus
fairly, but not easily; and of the others, only
Piastre, Artesian and Eye-glass gave any promise of
plaving important parts in the Melbourne Cup. But
then, such as Flavian and Cadonia were not supposed
to be unduly exerting themselves.
At Flemington, on Derby Day, all the talk was
about the rejuvenation of old Matouree since his
recent return to Melbourne for the Cup meeting.
This time two years ago Matouree was a pretty good
horse for a long journey, and if he starts for the
V.R.C. Handicap on Saturday, his previous victory
in that 14-furlongs event will commend him to this
paper’s regard.
Beragoon won the Maribyrnong Plate, as Moe had
won the Maiden Plate, without being troubled. If
the course was alreadv beginning to soften, it
helped the well-grown colt to assert his superiority
over his less matured rivals, and he had so strong
a lead as he neared home that he was able to finish
two lengths ahead after losing a little ground by
swerving. When the Ilotham Handicap came on for
argument, the rain had palpably affected the going.
Maybe the Sydney horses Shuja, Hallowmas and
Sandbath found it foreign to their feet. Anyhow,
they were all behind at the finish when the big
S’Australian candidate, Lord Alwyne, came away
from Nangar, and won in what was very good time,
all things considered. Then the crowd perceived
that Lord Alwyne’s performances on the training
track, in company with sluggish Duke Foote, had
not been any real evidence of the latter’s suspected
staleness.
* * * *
Apparently the Upstairs Powers view the
alleged Sports of Kings with more favor than they
do England’s national pastime, for on Saturday they
spilt enough moisture on Melbourne to put the
stopper on all cricket, but not enough to rule out
the great Fleinington gamble. On Friday the
Westralians began their struggle against an unneces-
sarily strong Victorian eleven. It is 19 years since
the two States collided, and there was little in the
play to urge the Westralians to call in again for an-
other great space of time. Only A. Randell (61)
and ex-Tasmanian H. W. Edmondson (23) shaped at
all confidently.
*■ * * *
The winner of a little Trials race at
Gawler (S.A.) has been disqualified, having previ-
ously won over £5O in a stake. The former win
was only a second, but it was worth £6O, and as
the Trials conditions read “have never received a
stake, or part of a stake, worth £50,” the case was
clear. The totalisator, not being out to make money
on animals that are Dead, returned all investments
on the disqualified one; backers couldn’t possibly
win, so they shouldn’t lose. R. M. Ilawker, the
owner, wanted to know why someone didn’t give him
a hint before the race, instead of after; but, after
all, it was his own business to know what he was
doing, and he stands above any suggestion of trick-
ery. It has been suggested in England that no
objection of the kind should hold unless lodged
beforehand. For this reason: anyone discovering a
flaw in entry can now lay against the horse as a
certainty. If it doesn’t win, all is simple; if it
does, it loses just the same, on the protest. But
with the Tote you can’t lay against a horse, , and
much possible villainy is thus removed. You can
only back him.
* * * *
“0.K.”: There are days when it is good
to take your Scawtch pedigree to the races with you.
The rule applies also to Irish parentage, but not in
the same degree, the average Irish' punter being more
apt to bet on form, or information, than to back
Mavourneen or Erin’s Isle for the sake of the name.
Still, it is not always good to remember that you
are a Scot. When the late scenic-artist Brunton
happened to go to Flemington, he was invariably on
the rank outsider that had anything suggestive of
Scotland in its cognomen. I was reminded of Brun-
ton’s method of picking winners when Royal Scotch
won a w.f.a. race at Caulfield recently—-price 20 to 1.
Then I met Erskine Scot, manager at West’s Pic-
tures in Melbourne, who is understood to be dimly
related to Bonnie Prince Charlie on his aunt’s side.
He had backed Royal Scotch, of course. Unfortu-
nately his royal blood had not boiled in his veins,
and he had merely put half a sov. on the animal.
“Boswell”: Cricket enthusiasts on the
Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) appear to follow the
game right through from first to second childhood.
Recently, at Murwillumbah, two juniors, Dinny Harti-
gan (80), and E. W. Blakeney (78), played a single-
wicket match for the benefit of the hospital, and
the former boy patted the ball to the boundary fence
several times. No sooner was this game finished than
the ground was occupied by a local (earn and one
from Coraki way. The skipper of the visitors was
T. Yabsley (70), who was a district champion 40
years ago. In a waning light he batted for half an
hour, and in the field his return was sharp and
sure, in contrast to the white whiskers which waved
round the upper part of his enthusiasm. No cen-
tenarian has yet been caught playing the game, but
Judging by ■ the way in which matches inclined
to drag out, a time may come when only centen-
arians will have time enough to see the thing
through.
* * * *
If North Sydney cricketer K: Walton is
not leading the simple life and getting home at 6
o’clock sharp every evening, he had, better reform.
Playing for his district agqinst the'Police’last week,
he gathered in 10 wickets ,for ,28 runs, and'left the
Police team a wreck. OnJ,v„ the best ind ----h of
us who have a gift of speed can afford to do things
like that.
The close of Sydney’s third round of
First-Grade cricket took place in a dull, sweltering
day, fit only for drinking. It wag a batsman s day,
with perfect wickets and well-diffused light, and it
is a surprising circumstance that only two centuries
were put up in such conditions. The mighty
ones were L. A. Cody, of Paddington, 127 ; and H.
Goddard, of Redfern, 105, n.o. Close-ups were C. J.
Tozer, of. University, 90 n. 0.; S. Moore, of North
Sydney, 89; and H. A. Maclean, of Gordon, 83.
Mailey, of Redfern, headed the bowling list with
five for 82. i F.' S. Middleton, of North Sydney, took
four Burwood wickets for 17 runs; his club-mate,
Long, took another four for -62 Single, of the
University, snatched four Glebe wickets for 23 ; and
Folkard, of Balmain, smashed up four of Peter-
sham’s for 39. As for the matches, University,
having declared with 320 ,for the loss of five
wickets, overwhelmed Glebe with 141, thus winning
by 179 on the first innings ; a ghastly doing with a
Bulgarian flavor about it. Paddington, in spite of
its serviceable 296, only made a drawn game with
Central Cumberland (otherwise Parramatta), which
had lost sijX wickets for 180 when time ran out.
An unsatisfactory tussle. Waverley had a comfort-
able win over Sydney by 77 on the first innings—
-244 and 167 respectively. Burwood, having amassed
240, utterly failed to shift North Sydney, which
bashed up 306 for four wickets; therefore it went
under by six wickets ail'd 66 runs on the first innings.
Balmain, having notched 218 for five wickets, de-
clared, and then routed Petersham for 115. But in
the follow-on, it had got only five wickets for 80
when time gave up the ghost; and so it had to be
content with a one innings’ win of 103 runs. Gor-
don made 222 at the first attempt, and Redfern
replied with 301 for six wickets, and thereby won
by four wickets and 79 runs on the first innings.
The result of the upheaval is that Redfern and
North Sydney are level at the head of the competi-
tion with six points each, and all the rest are away
to Satan behind, four of them with only two points
each, two with no points, four with two less than
nothing, and one six below zero.
* * * *
Another glorious tradition falls with the
sickening thud of a decayed pumpkin leaping from
the tree. M.L. Rugby is feeling sore. In ’O5 a team
blew over to the cold country and mangled the repu-
tation of that far land. A S’African team followed
and mopped up the remains. As the main smash
was already finished, it mopped them with a tender
hoof. M.L. Union expected an invitation to return
again to the slaughter, but the card didn’t come to
hand, and now the information has arrived that
S’Africa has got the invitation out of her turn, and
M.L. isn’t wanted. The reasons appear to be:
Maorilanders are (1) addicted to drink, (2) to need-
less asceticism and over-sobriety, (3) to making
themselves fit, (4) to trying to win, and (5) to de-
vouring their food with a knife. All of which goes
to show that the Ancient Briton can be a rotten-bad
loser.
# * * #
The gentle Standard Oil Company is at
it again. The price of petrol has taken another
jump, and it has been jumping so vigorously of
late that a lot of the bloom is off the rose of
motoring. There’s a fortune waiting for the man
who can meet this constant rise in price by im-
proving the efficiency of the engine. At present the
internal combustion engine turns only 20 per cent,
of the fuel into actual power for driving purposes—
the rest gets away, chiefly in the form of heat,
through the water-jackets and exhaust-pipe. A man
would make half a dozen fortunes if he could devise
a means to obtain even 40 per cent, of the thermal
units of the fuel. At present a motorist spends Is.
6d. on a gallon of petrol, and gets, roughly, 3id.
worth turned into power; the other Is. 2-Jd. is
sheer waste. The only apparent remedy is to get
the makers to instal carburetters to volatilise alcohol,
and agitate for the abolition of the duty on spirit
used for power purposes. But for the excise alcohol
should be about half the price of petrol, if manu-
factured in sufficiently large quantities under eco-
nominal conditions, and with proper carburetters it
should be just as effective for ordinary purposes.
Anyhow, the automobile clubs ought to go into the
matter carefully, and collect data to put before the
Australian Government. Australia is a land in which
both wood and water are scarce, and alcohol for
power purposes is a valuable consideration, as it
makes users of power independent of both those
scarce commodities.
* * * *
Tasmanian cyclist Brenda made a mighty
fine effort against Frank Kramer, the 11 times cham-
pion of America, for the mile championship of the
world, at Newark track, New Jersey (U.S.A.). The
first news received in Australia was that Grenda had
won the event, but that misconception was due to
the fact that in the first attempt to run the final
Kramer punctured, and the race was re-run. There
were only three in the final—Kramer, Grenda and
Perchicot, the Frenchman. Each tried to induce the
others to make the pace, and at last Kramer was
forced to the front. He went off with a terrjfic
bound. a^' l reeled away in front for four laps. Then
Grenda flew past him, and strove to get a clean
breaic-away. But the track was too heavy for that
sort of caper, and both the Frenchman and the
Yankee got his pace. Kramer made the supreme
effort of his racing life when he passed Grenda ; and
the Frenchman seems to have literally hurled himself
and his machine across the line. But the judges
gave the Australian second place. Kramer’s win
was by inches only. So evidently the long, powerful
Tasmanian has a future before him.
N.S.W. cyclists had a field day at Bris-
bane in the amateur championships meeting, S. R.
Burtenshaw winning both championships—the one
mile from E. C. Hooper (N.S.W.) and J. Bell
(Q.), and the 10 miles from Cutliffe and Beck (both
of;N.S.W.). Why the Queenslander doesn’t grow as
good legs as his N.S.W. brother is a mystery ; but on
the evidence of the bike, he doesn’t.
» * * »
Dick Arnst has either a splendid opinion
of ! himself, or a mighty poor one of sundry other
Australian scullers. Felton, Paddon and Towns are
all very anxious to row Harry Pearce before he
departs Bull-wards to butt Barry. Richard cheer-
fully proposes to give them a flutter for a sweep-
stakes of £lOO each, the winner to take the Jo.t. ’
He; generously offers each man lOsec. shirt, and
draws no line —not even against Harry Pearce him-
self. It must be glorious to feel like that!
i * * * '•• *
Railing on Sydney Harbor on; Saturday
was a :joke or a farce as far as the 18ft. craft were
concerned. Almost immediately they were let go
the wind gave a few dying kicks and faded right
out, and the boats just drifted aimlessly, spine pro-
pelled momentarily by a faint whiff from this way
or j that. The open boats have to be over the winning
line by 6.30 p.m. or forfeit all prizes. Out of 19
starters only two got home in time —Australian
(scratch), handled by veteran Webb; and Kismet
(also scratch), in that order. The rest were left. It
was about the most fearful and wonderful sailing
race ever seen on the harbor. Nearly every-boat had
a lead on the fleet at one time or other, and then
was in turn cut down by some tail-ender who hap-
pened to catch a straggling puff. But for the
moderate southerly which came along when it was
too late to be of service to all but those right in
front, some of the boats wouldn’t have got home till
some time on Sunday.
* * * *
111-luck still dogs the French boxers in
Australia, and on Saturday night Jean Audouy vyas
disqualified in the eighth round of his fight with
Yankee Pat Bradley. It was a battle between a
boxer and a bruiser; by which it is intended to
delicately hint that Bradley knows no more of
boxing than a Berkshire hog knows of Plantagenet
descent. He has a neat knack of covering up his
point; that done, he bores in to get home a knock-
out wallop. If he gets the wallop home he wins.
If he doesn’t, he loses on points. Of course, he can
only play that game with a man who is not a hard
hitter. Had Audouy carried a knock-out about him,
the gentle Patrick would have been killed stone-
dead about four times in each round. The elusive,
clean-hitting Frenchman simply rained blows on the
head afid face of the American. But the Yankee,
staggering under the shower of blows, never relented
or hesitated —just went on boring in, and when he
thought' the time was ripe, smashed. Three times
he caught the Gaul with smashes that sent him to
the boards; but the Gaul came back, and on one
occasion put up a splendid exhibition of punching,
beating the Yankee to a standstill. But although
he could hit all the time, and how, when and where
he liked, the Frenchman could not knock out the
American. These fellows who survive Chicago pork
seem to be impervious to anything but an axe or a
dynamite cartridge. There's only one way for a
boxer of the Audouy type to beat a Chicago-fed iron-
head, and that is to devote all attention to one spot
—an eye for preference, and land three out of every
four blows on that eye till it is closed up, and then
get loose on the other. Constant tapping will break
even granite.
To come back to the fight, the end came in the
beginning of the eighth round. Bradley rushed in
and smote at Audouy. Whether he hit him or not
writer cannot say. He certainly seemed to. Audouy
dropped on one knee and was promptly disqualified
by referee Scott for having gone down without being
hit; and Scott was in the right position to see, and
had a better view than anyone in the Stadium. It
was a fairly exciting scrap while it lasted ; but the
chances are, that sooner or later, Bradley would
have got home with one of those haymakers. As
long as the Frenchman could come up he was,
nevertheless, a winner on points.
There is one thing about the Stadium that is
unutterably dreary, and that is the awful habit of
“announcing coming events.” A debonair gentleman,
with a smiling countenance, climbs laboriously into
the ring, advances to one side and begins, “Gentle-
men,” etc., etc. Then he goes to the next side of the
ring and yells it all over again, and then repeats it
yet again at the two other sides ; and by the time
he has six coming events four times each,
it becomes wearisome. The Stadium is well managed
with that one exception. There is no other place
of public amusement in Sydney where the visitor
gets such courteous treatment and polite attention.
Even when the white-coated attendants pass out a
gentleman for being over-demonstrative, they do it
with a mingled courtesy and firmness that is abso-
lutely ideal.
* * * *
For the last week or so the cable has been
quite silent as to what has happened to Johnson;
so, presumably, the hysterical Chicago crowd did not
fl.v off the handle and lynch him. The case at the
latest advice has been postponed while the police
collect more evidence; and it is a' charming com-
mentary qn American justice that Johnson’s cafe has
been closed by having its license cancelled before
Johnson has been found guilty by the courts. Mean-
while, fight followers are discussing how to discover
his successor, for by common consent Johnson’s
title has been torn from him. He is still champion
of the world, but no one will acknowledge the fact,
and appearances indicate that a sort of Armageddon
of bruisers will be organised to discover the new
champion. The cruellest part of the business is that
decent colored fighters like Langford, Jeanette and
McVea are included in the boycott of Johnson the
Dreadful. The world's championship is to be re-
served entirely for the white race, although, of
course, the respectable fighters already mentioned
will be able to get just as many matches as before.
* * * *
Australian light-weight Hughie Mehegan
has gained great fame in England, but little money.
He made too great a splash at his battle with
Matthew Wells; and demonstrated himself such a
liberal dispenser of sudden stoush that one after
another all the best English light-weights have
backed out of any engagements they may have, made,
or decisively declined to make any engagements.
Mehegan will have to make the trip to the United
States without “cleaning up” the English board be-
fore he goes. However, in the States he will not go
short of chopping-blocks, for the Yankee bruiser
never allows himself to be over-awed by a foreign-
made reputation or anything else. Which is one of
the few creditable things about the Yankees, either
as fighters or “sports.”


SOME FINE DAY YOU’LL
REGRET YOU CANNOT ROX.
I
i
i
1
1
i
*
i
1
i
i
i
I
i
i
i
i
i
i
I
1
I
i
1
i
i
I
1
i
i
i
«
i
i
I
I
1
1
i
i
1
Sooner or later yoti will have occasion to
defend yourself—' every man worth while docs.
When your time does come you’ll find
you’re at a mighty disadvantage unless you’ve
had experience—unless you’ve learnt to get
the maximum benefit of your natural strength,
and learnt to stop your opponent’s blows
with your your face.
Put up your hands now! Use them as
though you were defending yourself! Judge
for yourself how lost you are through lack of
Boxing Tuition.
Why don’t you become a scientific boxer ?
It’s very simple my way.
I TEACH BOXING
WBY POST
My methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress
rapidly, and will quickly acquire a sound
knowledge of the best moves of the most cele-
brated boxers.
The course is very complete. It deals with
every serviceable punch, and the most effec-
tive stop for it.
You’ll find my instruction a really splendid recreation, that will while away many a pleasant
hour.
And how can you put your leisure to bet ter advantage than by learning to defend, yourself ?
You ought to write for my terms and .fob further information, as given in my interesting
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly send 3d. for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
104 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Another Triumph for
“Shell” Spirit
in Automobile Club Hill-Climbing Test,
held at National Park,
October J 9, J 912.
RESULT:
CLASS “ A
Ist ion “SHELL.”
3rd on “SHELL.”
CLASS “B”
Ist on “SHELL.”
2nd on “SHELL.”
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 16/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
VictorTrumper& Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS-Leather Match, 4/6, 6/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsand Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards. Wicket-keeping Caunt-
lets. Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ǻ
your
_ own
Cigarette
Iti \T%
twice
asgoodJ
AC
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BBST axvd VWBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. U? 255“ George S? Sydney
jSip Lauder Brunton’a
Snake Bite Lancet and Cure
| A Simple and Practical Remedy j
[NEVER FAILS WHEN PROMPTLY USED!
ißßßgtf
Only One Shilling
Carry it in your vest pocket ready for instant ose
and you need fear no snake, however deadly. Sir
Lauder Brunton, the famous Royal Physician,
, vouches for the genuineness of this treatment, that t
\ has saved hundreds Of lives every year I
lin India from cobra and karait venom. The com- '
plete outfit is only inches long and about as
thick as a pencil. Full printed directions with
each Lancet. Send Postal Note for 1/• to
The Union Co.p 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
SEVERE SUFFERING,
Mr. A. H. Adams, of Davis Town, N.S.W., suffered greatly from bleeding
Piles. He was advised to try Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills, and in about six
weeks was cured of his fearful suffering. Feeling every confidence in these
Pills, he declares that he has no hesitation in recommending them.
In the face of such proof as this, can you afford to overlook the merits of
Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills, when you can secure immediate relief and a
lasting cure by taking a box or two of. them ?
They clear the system of all impurities, and banish all sense of itching, irri-
tation and congestion by removing the cause of the trouble. They cure all
forms of Piles, in every stage of development. Are non-aperient, perfectly
harmless, and far superior to ointments, etc,
Murphy’s Pile Pills are sold by leading chemists and storekeepers every-
where, or may be obtained direct. Price 3/- per box, post free. SOLE
PROPRIETORS: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street,
Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
æ
OSTRICH PLUHES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any add res*.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Monev Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Mention The Bullstu*.]
Also at Oomar of Bourko and twanoton Btroata, MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
INCORPORATED 1863.
HOLDS regular sales of Wool. Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Furred Skins and Sundries, and makes liberal cash .
advances on consignments in store awaiting sale;
securing Highest Market Rates for all Consignments entrusted
to it, and rendering returns promptly.
The Company makes Advances on Pastoral Properties and
Stock at current rates of interest, and acts generally as
Pastoral Banker and Agent.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Wheat Selling Charge - - -2 y 2 per cent.
Four Months’ Free Storage allowed in Sydney, if desired.
ǽ
SMART STYLISH
FOOTWEAR.
Lovers of comfort always find the greatest satisfaction in
wearing liigney Shoes.
Not only do the “liigney Shoes” enjoy a popularity for
comfort, but they are recognised by the best-dressed men
as the shoes that, for style, quality and finish are unex-
celled.
The Boot shown is a Box Calf Bal. Stout Soles, splen-
didly finished.
Prices 15/6,18(6,22(6 and 25/-
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Send for a Copy of our Catalogue — free.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE ST., and 179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
: I
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
All States
and N.Z,
DUNLOP
GARDEN HOSE
offers extra service
without extra cost.
The quality and construction of
this durable and non-splitting
Hose ensures users years of
wear and satisfaction. It has
NO EQUAL in this Country.
* * *
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES,
BUT ACCEPT ONLY DUNLOP BRANDS
The recollections of “Strictly Anonymous” :
“It doesn’t follow that drunkenness’> means .being
the worse for liquor” (B. 17/10/’ 12). That profound
remark has set me remembering. In the course of a
mis-spent youth I knew four men—all friends, or, at
any rate, members of the same club crowd —on whom
liquor produced the most absurdly diverse effects.
No. 1 was a brilliant intellect. He could, on oc-
casion, drink till the cows came .home; but always
after the second glass-his ordinary polished manner
departed, and lie became suspicious, fretful, and in-
fernally insulting to all-comers. No. 2 was just or-
dinary in everyday life; with three drinks inside
him he became genial, unexpectedly witty, and the
delight of any company he might be in. No. 3 was
a “sport,” of the type which ebbs to and fro between
the billiard-table and the racecourse, loves a good
dinner, and never walks the length of a block if a
cab can be got. He ought to have been a seasoned
vessel. Yet a single drink would unbalance him, and
h& generally stuck to, soft things. When he did have
the one it always aroused a demand for mtirp ;j and,
cards with, him, I have been under the. pain-
ful necessity of reaching behind him and. drinking
up those he ordered before lie could get them, to
save his becoming a public nuisance. No. i was for-
ever “having one,” and never showed any effect at
all. Come to think of it, I suppose I never' saw him
not under the influence of liquor, but certainly lie
never seemed otherwise than sober. He simply had
to have a whisky every little while, as a; whale has
to come up to breathe. Only once did I hear him
refer to the subject. We were playing billiards one
evening, and he fancied he was off his game. “Had
too many whiskeys,” he said to my amazement.
“Only two,” T objected. “Oh, yes; but I must have
had 30 or 35 during the day.” He could feel them,
apparently, but he never showed them. The same
quantity of alcohol divided between the other three
men would have seen No. 1 locked up, No. 2 physi-
cally sick, and No. 3 dead to the world. Once again,
what is “normal” ? And what is “perfectly sober” ?


R-C-H “Twenty-Five”
EQUIPMENT.
WHEELBASE —110 inches.
MOTOR —Long-stroke; 4 cylinders cast en bloc ;
31-inch bore, 5-inch stroke. Two-bearing
crank shaft. Timing gears and valves en-
closed. Three-noint suspension.
STEERING —RIGHT SIDE. Irreversible worm
gear, 16-inch steering wheel. Throttle con-
trol on stering column.
CONTROL—CENTRE LEVER operated through
H-plate, integral with universal joint hous-
ing just below. Hand-lever emergence
brake at driver’s left. Foot accelerator In
connection with hand throttle,
SPR INGS —Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full ellip-
tic and mounted on swivel seats.
FRAME—Pressed steel channel.
AXLES —Front, I-beam, drop-forged; rear,
semi-floating type.
TRANSMISSION—3 speeds, forward and reverse;
sliding gear, selective type.
CONSTRUCTION —Drop-forgings wherever prac-
ticable ;' chrome nickel steel used throughout
all shafts and gears in the transmission and
rear axle; high carbon manganese steel in
all parts requiring special stiffness.
BODY—FuII 5-passenger English type; extra
wide seats.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Non-Skid Tyres—32 x 31 inch.
12-inch “Hall” Bullet electric headlights, double
parabolic lens.
6-inch “Hall” Bullet electric side lights, with
parabolic lens.
“Exide” 100 ampere-hour electric battery.
Bosch Magneto.
Warner Autometer,
Demountable Rims.
Extra rim and holders.
Tally-ho horn. \
Jiffy curtains —Up or down instantaneously.
Top and top cover.
Windshield
Pear view mirror.
Tool-kit, jack, tyre repair kit, pump.
Robe rail.
2-Seater, £236
5-Seater, £295
ONE of the best proofs of R-C-H
value is the number of buyers
who heretofore have been
driving cars costing from to
And there’s a good reason for it. You
get in the R-C-H the utmost in comfort,
in looks and in strength. You get power
sufficient to take you and your family
wherever you want to -go, and faster
than you’ll ever want to drive. You get
an economy of operation impossible in
the high-priced car. You get complete
equipment of the best quality. And you
save from £lOO to £2OO. /
The easiest way to prove t.h'ese things
is to let us demonstrate the R-C-H to
you. We’ll do it whenever you’re ready.
And we’re perfectly willing to abide by
your judgment.
Correspondence invited from
responsible dealers in any
vacant territory.
R-C-H CORPORATION, Export Department,
170 LYCASTE STREET, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
CABLE ADRRESS : “ ROBCHCORP DETROITMICH.” CABLE CODES : Western Union, Lieber’s,
A 1, and ABC 4th and oth editions, 2 in 1 code condenser.
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO., LTD.,
180-190 Exhibition St., Melbourne,
Agents for Australia and Tasmania.
BOWEN & TAYLOR, Ltd., 253-259 Elizabeth St., Sydney, Sub-agents for New South Wales.
FOSTER & WELLS, Davey St., Hobart, Sub-agents for Tasmania.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO,, Hay St., Perth, Sub-agcntn for West Australia.
BEST
NATURAL
a
APERIENT
WATER
L. & G. Hardtmuth s
m
LIC Hardtmutm’s
m
nOHiNOQR RuBBtR
xt : ■>
>\*V\V
PENCILS.
Nothing too good
can be said about the
quality of the Koh-
i-noor.” Its silken
touch and durability
make it the ideal
pencil for every kind
of pencil work. One
“ Koh-i-noor’ easily
outlasts six ordinary
pencils.
Made in 17 Degree*
and Copying. Also
“ Koh-i-noor ” Pro-
pelling Pencils for the
Pocket.
Of Stationers, &c.,
everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTNIUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
ã
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
à
TO
H.M. THE KINGr
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD.,** LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
á
ZJM
How does this way of
Channelling appeal to you?
The horse is hitched in, and off you go.
This Scoop cuts it's way
quickly and cleanly, fills easily
in ploughed or virgin soil, and is
extremely light on the horse.
How does this way of making
Irrigation. Channels, Drains and
Dams appeal to you after the
ba c krbreaking pick-and-shovel
way? Body of our Scoop is
pressed cold from one solid plate
of hardened steel. Some scoops
are pressed dot; tests prove the
hot-pressed scoop weak at cor-
ners.
The McPherson Scoop has
Steel Runners and Detachable
Handles.
Capacity. Weight. Price.
No. 3 —3 cubic feet 801 b. 32/6
No. 2 —5 cubic feet 951 b. 35/-
No. I—7 cubic ft. 1051 b. 37/6
No. o—lo cubic ft. 1331 b. 80/-
Dam-Maßing' Scoop
Tilting Pattern.
Same solid construction as above
Scoops. Dumps the load and
returns to its original
position for filling.
No. 1, 7 cubic feet, 75/-
No. 2, 5 cubic feet, 67/6
No. 3, 3 cubic feet, 59/-
> A
We sell High=grade Farm and Workshop Tools of every
conceivable kind—at Economic Prices. When next you want
tools write and get acquainted with
C
“ Machinery and Tool Merchants,
554-66 and 582-88 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
“Hassan” makes a proposition :
What about developing the Northern Territory by
means of prison labor ? The time for the small man in
the North is not yet, and won’t be yet for quite a
long time. If you offered a white settler a 10-acre
block of very best land on the easiest terms in-
vented by the most vote-hungry Fusionist, or on the
most beautiful leasehold terms which could be
dreamed by Hen George, he would turn up his nose
at it, and stay away down near our beautiful harbor
or our lovely Yarra. And, really, what is there to
induce him to go? He’d be as far away from the
ordinary decencies (and indecencies) of civilisation
as though he were dead. Whether he would regret
the decencies or the indecencies most does not mat-
ter, nor does it matter whether he would be men-
tally, morally and physically improved by living the
strenuous pioneering life. Very few men prefer to
eat the wholesome things, and when one wears the
wholesome clothes he is put in a lunatic asylum, a
fate which recently befel a literary gentleman who
sunned himself about Melbourne and Sydney. We
may take it then that the settler won’t settle in the
Northern Territory either for the good of his health
or the future of Australia.
When Australia was discovered nobody came out
here because he wanted to. Our hardy pioneers
mostly came chained together. Had it rested upon
choice we would not have had as many people here
as we have now, and that isn’t enough. We would,
in fact, have had less than not enough. It may be
that the race is getting luxurious, but pioneering is
not a job which appeals to very many men, and it is
very much less popular with the women. Just as
Australia was originally populated and developed by
persons who had no choice in the matter, and who
came Out her to make roads and build Government
buildings and make themselves generally useful, so
it may be necessary to turn our gaol-birds into the
Northern Territory. We have any amount of them,
and we ought to have three times as many, only our
police are insufficient and ill-paid and incompetent.
They could make the roads and do the digging and
the ploughing and the hewing of wood and the draw-
ing of water. Then, when they had made the place
comfortable they might be given small blocks on
nominal leasehold terms for the rest of their lives.
These unfortunate gentlemen are in the way down
here. Nobody loves them. The unions will not let
them Work because they compete with the unions.
There wouldn’t be any unions to compete with up in
the neighborhood of the Daly River or Alice Springs.
There is only one difficulty in the way. If the Com-
monwealth proposed to take the long-sentence pris-
oners and make them useful, the States would cling
to their burglars and bunco-men and garrotters and
other rotters as they cling to their debts and their
muddling, and their inept and foolish little Parlia-
ments.
“Hamer”: More haste, less whisky, or
something, as the old adage has it. The
roystering suburbanite who leaves Sydney
by the very latest train has always a chance
of being home before the one who tries to
get early off the*mark. Which thing is a
great mystery until the ways of the mid-
night train are marked and known. The
officials connected with the departure and
running of that altruistic convenience are
the patron saints of the late drunk. They
search for him throughout the length and
breadth of Sydney station, and they see that
he is safely delivered at his correct destina-
tion. Their careful system may be some
slight disadvantage to the man who lives at
Parramatta and who objects to being
awakened at each station of call to answer
anxious inquiries as to the situation of his
domestic rooftree, but to the overburdened
wight of the intermediate suburbs it is a
boon and a blessing. Recently had an ex-
perience as an after-effect of attendance at
a revival meeting where all our spirits were
much moved. I placed myself in charge o
a ioyous neighbor, and when we reached the
Central Station I found that we had a
chance to catch a train which ran through
to our select suburb. But my triend a
suburbanite of vast experience -expressec
his inflexible determination to wait tor the
midnight train. I pointed out that, while l
felt I had a moral obligation to look alter
him, I wanted to get home as early as rea-
sonably possible, and that the train I pio
posed to take would land us home an hour
and a half ahead of the twelve o clock am-
bulance which has neither use nor regard toi
time. He was obdurate and insulting. He
said he didn’t think a man in my state ot
sobriety need worry much about such obli-
gations, and he himself was prepared to lay
any responsibility for his safe delivery on
the shoulders of Tom Johnson. If he took
the 12 o’clock Tom would see him safely
home. I left him nestling down to slumber
on one of the station seats, and took the
through train. When I woke up in the
sheds at Homebush I realised that they, do
not trouble about the sleeping or the weary'
on any but the midnight caravan. My own ,
suburban platform, where I should have got;
off, was four stations back, and it was a
cold walk home. My friend not only got
home before me but he acquired on the train
a packet of fish and a large heap of beer
that had been abandoned by some roysterer
more roysterous than himself. Thus I
learned my great lesson, and now when tired
out with a long night’s work I never dream
of looking for any other vehicle to take me
home except the ohe blessed contraption
which links night and morning. The only
time I have known that last train to fail
was in the case of a friend who tried to get
to Manly by it and couldn’t on account of
the fog. He got to Parramatta, anyhow,
and that was somewhere. It is indeed a
cold drunk who blows nowhere.
“Maori Mac” inspects the Maoriland Min-
istry, but awards no diplomas : —-
Apparently Bill Massey will reign long as Maori-
land’s Premier. Not that Bill has any particular
effulgence hidden about his person. Nor have his
more or less disguised Tory colleagues shown anv
reason why sentence of death should not be passed.
William is like Dick Arnst before he ceased rowing
at the brewery. There is nobody in sight that can
lick him. The Opposition is a disorganised and
leaderless rabble. Moreover, it is fast disintegrating.
How could a beaten party, which contained big
brewer Myers, bigger Wowser Isitt, and biggest
rangatira Jimmy Carroll have cohesion? The Oppo-
sition’s worst charge against Massey is that he has
pinched Ward’s policy. It is a serious indictment.
Ward’s policy was a void. If a discerning public
had been able to recognise any sign of a policy in
Ward’s vicinity Joseph would still be boss borrower.
Already Massey has acquired his predecessor’s shuffle.
He talks vaguely of the next session, or the jhext
century, or the next car for home. And the back-
bone which frantically acclaimed the , overdue mil-
lennium when Bill staggered home by a short nose is
beginning to look slant-eyed at its hero. Attorney-
General Herdman has persevered with his Civil Ser-
vice Bill. Its chief features are the elimination of
political patronage in the Service, and the appoint-
ment of a “big chief ” Commissioner. The poli-
tician who hankers after a job for his'great aunt
will incur a penalty, and the female, relative will be
disqualified or warned off the course. The united
howls of the Civil Servants and of those who want
to be Civil Servants are only being drowned by the
bellowing of the M’s.P. who desire that all their con-
stituents shall be Civil Servants. The only other
Minister to display any convictions, beyond the farm
belief that he is the-best man for his -lob.ts Hemes.
Thirty years ago Herries was an Englishman. He
has not*forgotten the fact. Next Railway
Manager Ronayne retires. Hemes will import his
successor. When some misguided cove P ol "ted out
that a good railway boss in Cold Hmgland might be
a damned poor boss in Maoriland, berries became
speechless with indignation. then a bloq
knowledge and horse-sense fixed. Hemes with hi i eye,
and announced that in the Motheaten Land the bg
railway is run by a number of specialists, and, the e-
fore, Herries would have to import a troupe, galaxy,
circus or menagerie. Herries was not seeking in-
formation, and the local applicant, however com-
petent he may be, will be turned down Of the re-
mainder of Massey’s team, Fraser and Allen are
aged Tories, Bell and Rhodes are less aged, but more
Tory, and Poiuare is a dark gentleman boasting a
Yankee ’Varsity degree. I have left Fisher till last.
He has brains but no balance ; can play a good game
of tennis and heave the shot quite a distance. He
is not a Torv, but herds with them because- —-
Well, why the Sheol does he herd with them l i
don’t know; neither do I care.
“The Ejected” writes: —
When the Hungarian Opposition gets busy, it can
accomplish more in three days than our N.S.W. Op-
position can in three years. At the end of last
session one of its members shot at the 1 resident.
Count Tisza, and the whole Opposition was turned
out. Next session the members who disapproved of
the Ministry brought motor-horns, fog signals and
trumpets with them, and when the President • put
in an appearance they opened a concert, and re-
minded him, between tunes, that he was a :paid
rascal, and various other uncomplimentary things.
They called him a hog- and six bigamists tor two
and a half hours, during which time there was
a general mix-up on the floor of the House, and
several members were bitten by several other mem-
bers. Then the sitting was suspended. When busi-
ness was resumed, the police were called in to keep
an eye on proceedings; but when the Opposition
began to warm up the bobbies proved useless. Meet-
ing again adjourned. Next day, before the Presi-
dent took his seat, someone called the Minister for
Commerce a scoundrel. (In this respect our N.S.W.
Opposition, I believe, Can hold its own.) The Min-
ister resented it, and strode across the Chamber to
biff the offender, but he was knocked down and
wkllted on. Then the President put in an appear-
ance, and the motor-horns, etc., commenced. He
called in the police, but the Opposition left en masse.
And yet people accuse our Legislature of being'noisy
arid riotous. In Hungary they would have eaten
Willis.


U L
*9O!
1
:V
I
Lr
✓
jp
mi
« m
11 ■■ 'J V \ ' "
, I . JTS'•«*«»«»» —r
mz*
m
,n
s'
**?
. ’ &
%s=
V.-->
te
(!•'.-
J*\
"N /
S
m
r .'^
m
m
I
;^v
3
\ \
•* „-,i ■..*'
U_J
Spend Your
Vacation ’Midst
Mountain Mists.
Early Summer is a Season of delight on the Mountains, and
privileged is the Vacationist who can spent it at
MOUNT VICTORIA.
Amongst these verdant hills, close to the heart of Nature, there
is a fresh crispness in the air which makes the, blood red and the
heart light.
After a full day’s roaming, the long, cool . evenings, filled with
Music-at the “IMPERIAL”—Mount Victoria’s finest Hotel—-are a
delightful prelude to a refreshing night’s sleep, ’midst these
quiet, restful hills.
The “IMPERIAL” Hotel is thoroughly modern—-
own Electric Light Plant—self-contained Sanitary
System, and Water Supply. The “IMPERIAL’S” Motor
Garage (see illustration) is the most up-to-date outside
Sydney. Pirst-class Cuisine. Tariff.—November to April,
' 10/- per day; £3/3/- per week.
Jenolan Caves by Motor.
Mount Victoria is the nearest Railway point to the famous
Jenolan Caves. A fine service of “Itala” Cars leaves the
“IMPERIAL” each day, returning in time to catch the City-bound
afternoon train. Return fare, 30/-. 3
Full Particulars from
THE TOWN OFFICE,
THE "IMPERIAL/'
18 IMPERIAL ARCADE,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Child “plump
and rosy” on
scorn
EMULSION
Thus do mothers tell how I
Scott’s Emulsion brings
health, strength and re-
newed life to the little ones.
Coughs, colds, chills
and bronchitis
indeed all throat and chest ail-
ments are banished by this strength-
making emulsion. Note this case:
Here is the mother’s
letter—
''My little daughter was suffering
from a severe cold. The doctor said I
could give her nothing better than
Scott’s Emulsion. Now, thanks to
Scott’s Emulsion, she is in better
health than before she became ill.
She has gained greatly in weight, has
a splendid appetite, and is plump and
rosy. The wonderful results are a
great surprise to all. ”
Mrs. Alice Maddern, Fleet
Street, Carlton, N.S.W.
No substitute or imitation is nearly
so good as Scott’s. Therefore, if
you would have your child happy,
healthy and strong—don’t simply
ask for emulsion, ask for SCOTT’S
EMULSION. * —,
â
Cut out this figure and see
that a similar figure is on
the package you buy. It is
the SCOTT Trade Mark—
your guarantee that you
really have got genuine
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
HOW “ANTINEURASTHIN”
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
It is, in the first place, essentially a food —not a
drug stimulant.
It is a food that feeds the whole of the nervous
system with those elements the lack of which in the
structural tissues constitutes ’ the neurasthenic con-
dition.
It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully absorbed, thus creating quickly a renewed
mental and physical vigor. This is not mere stimu-
lation, but is really the sensation produced by the
actual assimilation and storage of those refined ele-
ments necessary to nerve comfort and vigor. This
is not—as in the case of tonics and stimulants —a
mere transient whipping up, but an actual addition
to the nerve structure and nerve strength of the in-
dividual. FREE TRIAL
together with pamphlet dealing with Nervous Com-
plaints, and containing analysis of Antineurasthin,
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage, by the Wholesale Agent, H. A. GODDARD,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane;
or branches: 194 Vickery's Chambers. 82. Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Building's, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland.
SERIAL No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by 11. A. GODDARD.
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
IBH
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
2 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla puts red
corpuscles into the blood, gives
steady and even power to the
nerves. Ask your doctor about
this strong tonic.
* The Queen
OF
iu^ s
TABLE WATERS}
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
I a TEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
B U ELS
i XMIB.TION, 1910
liave a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very best that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by a’l First-Class Drapers and Storekeeners,
i
BEWARE
OF
DROPPERS
weakened by holes or cut-out slots ;
THEY SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
WEDGE-CLIPS AND LOOPS MAY BE USED ON THE SAME DROPPER.
CHEAPEST DROPPER ON THE MARKET.
if
If'■you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to—
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Leicester & Queensberry Streets, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
WHO WILli. GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
%
CASTRATION
EASY
Our Eniascuiator combines best American
Ideas with Rdfiiabio £ngSish Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions. _Colis,
Bulls, etc
Sharpe's Perfect Emasculator
Crushes' before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL
Has just the proper power, and being made of best
Sheffield Steel will give perfect satistaction for
many years EASY TO USE
SHARPE&SHARPE
IS Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Post 45/- FREE
ANYWHERE
Satisfaction or Money Back
Write for Knife and Vet. List
Veterinary Advice Free
=jjg?Vi
L
'lj
Making Money
with our SILENT EMPIRE
BIOGRAPH is quite easy.
This Machine has so many good
points that it is to-day pre-eminent
in the Moving Picture World.
IT IS
SIMPLE
ROCK STEADY
FLICKERLESS
FIREPROOF.
IT HAS
ALL STEEL SPROCKETS
IMPROVED GATE
ENLARGED LAMPHOUSE.
MALTESE CROSS.
For £45
we can equip you with
a complete Cinemato-
graph Plant, including gas plant, etc.,
ready for showing.
Call or send for our Illustrated Catalogue.—lt is Free.
JERDAN’S Ltd.
Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENCY—
ALEXANDER GUNN & SONS,
236 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Protect Your Feet »y Bearing Patent Asbestos Socks.
11I8S8
m
Before Using.
No More Pains in the Feet. The Comfort Experienced
in Wearing Asbestos Socks is Absolutely Marvellous.
Hot, Perspiring, Inflamed and Tender Feet. Corns,
Bunions and Bad Feet Prevented and Absolutely Cured
by wearing Patent Asbestos Socks, (soles).
An Army Surgeon discovered that soldiers after marching suffered more from
[soreness of the feet than from actual physical fatigue. After long study he
(found that this was due to the irritation set up by the smooth leather insoles of
| their boots. The Asbestos Socks, made from impregnated asbestos with a
slightly rough grained surface prevents the foot slipping inside, and waiting is
thus less tiring. Asbestos being a non-conductor the feet are kept
from the variations caused bv hot or cold weather, a genuine joy
and blessing to the tenderfooted. In fact the comfort experienced
in wearing these socks Is absolutely marvellous. Try a
pair at once. Satisfaction Guaranteed or money refunded.
They will renew the feet of anyone who has to stand long or do much
walking, such as shop assistants, policemen, nurses, sailors,
soldiers, postmen, cyclists, athletes etc. Made in two qualities, 1/- and
2/- per pair, postage 2d pair extra. Six pairs either quality sent for price of
five pairs State size and name this paper.
Universal Supply Co. 460 George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
I
Xviv.v.VvXw
wmm/i
AjUr Vum
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. ?<ame
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.F.H.: One par usable, but the verses are
out of our line N.C.: “The place where the Gov-
ernor’s cow died’’ is not interesting. Now, if the
Governor's whale had climbed a tree and died, that
would have been something.... George L.: What the
mischief any of it means we know not. Even our
stipendiary necromancer and anagram-solver has had
to own himself licked. However, herewith one verse
in token of good faith and kindly feeling: —
Nightfall. The welcome night blots out the scar,
Earth's leprous knuckle spot; the grim forboder ;
Dust and ashes of the ages ; a world’s Golgotha.
( Heavenl send no moon to-night.)
. ...M. Cairns: “The best book on Australian Poets"
is not yet written. Nor is any other best book. .. .
Henry li.: One verse:—
Seated at a Faro table
Was a villain strong and able.
Who had plied his trade at Cairo,
Masquerading as a hero ;
He was playing with Lord Marlow,
At the bank at Monte Carlo,
Where the Lord sought to forget
All his care with Margarette.
A creditable bit of potted melodrama, Hepry ; but
that is all we can say in its favor.... Manin: Dis-
tinct streaks of humor in “The Awakening,” but its
flimsiness slays it. .. .Carnsdale: Joe Cook was re-
turned to the N.S.W. Parliament as a Labor member
in IS9I. He represented Hartley in the Assembly
from 1891 to 1901. About two years after his elec-
tion he was chosen leader of the Freetrade section of
the party, but declined to sign the solidarity or
caucus pledge, and cut loose. He is still loose. He
has never been tight, being a strict teetotaler
Muldoon: Done better too often before... .Brother
Engineer: Verse no good, and sent in months too late
to have any topical interest... .H.C.J.: Verse not Up.
. ...A.8.M.: Echoes only, and not skilful ones at
that....Hee K.: Poem misses by the width of two
strong cooees and a kangaroo hunt... .Elbe: We will
pass your splendid joke suggestion on to the public
exactly as received. It sometimes does the public good
to be handed these things—teaches them humility and
sympathy for editors: "What Darwin Didn’t Know”
—a nice (sometimes) little girl student, who, among
things, was studying chemistry, was lunching
tete-a-tete with Uncle, who also knew something of
the subject, likewise a trifle of anatomy. The
weather was of that description conducive to the un-
invited presence of our old friend, the Buzz-fly,
whose music considerably annoyed Girlie, causing
remarks of different varieties. Uncle recommended
an application of sodium chloride a la caudal ap-
pendage (of the Buzz-fly). Girlie forgot her chem-
istry for a moment and questioned : “What is sodium
chloride?” “Don’t you know what sodium chloride
is?” remarked Uncle. “Oh, yes, of course,'”' point-
ing to the salt-cellar. “That’s it. You know, what
caudal appendage is, don’t you?” Girlie: “Potassium
chloride!!!” . ...B.J. (Vic.): Sincere verse, but
too wild and rocky... .J.J.D.: Hold on to your
job; large quantities of such verse would make no
money, but many enemies. .. .M.D. (Q.) : No in-
terest .... Bellerive: A marine poem :
MUTINY ON THE HIGH SEAS.
While a vessel cleaved her way
O’er the wild ocean Blue
Mutiny prevailed among the
Fierce and desperate crew
Prone fell the brave captain
With a bullet wound in the neck
The officers were overpowered
And brutally slain on the Deck.
Pour out the grog cried the Leader
Comrades we are free
Dump over the dead to the
Reptiles of the sea
Flames burst from the hold
During the adventurous trip
Maddened by grog the mutineers
Set fire to the ship.
.... Charles G.: Slew the beachcomber in cold ink.
.... Grattan S.: Reminds us of some good poet at
his very worst. Forget for the moment what
poet ft was, but it doesn’t matter
. ...C.8.H.: Both fail R.H. (M.L.) : This is our
self-denial week. We will do without them....
Ex.: Starkly disagree with your view that
the time is ripe for an export duty on youthful
singers and players who graduate from Eisteddfodan
and amateur competitions, and then yearn for Europe.
They come back to Australia in due course, rather
broke, with far less of the beri-beri effect about
the head, and with a truer appreciation of the merits
of their native land. Later, they usually abandon
Art and take to work, which is all to the good. If
any legal process is called for, we are inclined to
favor a Prohibition Order, or something, against
Eisteddfoding.. .Boheme: The Bulletin has written
probably 100 or 200 leading articles, sub-leaders and
Plain English items in favor of Irish Home Rule
during its lifetime. If you haven’t read them it
isn’t our responsibility... ,Effebb: The best we can
say for your work is that the gags are somewhat less
rotten than the drawings. However, mortification
has set in briskly as regards even the gags.... Biff:
Note that ex-Senator John Downer appeared in Bul-
wer Lytton’s “Money!’ in Adelaide, in 1869. But is
it a kindly act to throw up a man’s 40-odd-year-old
m ; stakes at him in-this way ?.... Cybele: Yon” re-,
marks shall be brought under the notice of “O.i . ’
and if he wilts utterly the loss of a valued c .-
tributor will be on your fair shoulders. They (the
remarks, not the shoulders) are a shade too intimate
for publication in a mild old home journal like
ours Gerald B.: Lines beginning—
Like some unhouseled thing of pain
The wandering night wind croons,
received. According to Noah Webster, “housel
means “to administer the Eucharist to,” If that
is what you mean, get hence, or get work, or some-
thing equally remote. Nothing in the short story. . .
E. A. Hodda: Whisper it into the girl’s shell-like
ear Jack Arrol: Just misses the target; have
another shot... .Splodger: “A Close Call” and “Brit-
ish Justice” not up. Sorry... .J.L.1.: Yes, as you
suppose, the basket sadly accepted it... .D.H.M.:
Now, what have you said about “Stringybark that
could have the slightest interest for any human
creature?.... .Amikus: Fake too obvious. Your
“poetic’s license” hereby cancelled, and your leg-pull-
ing efforts decreed to be mud.... N.L.: Frightful at-
tempt... .John Anthony: Verses too rough. .. .A.F.:
“Among the Tombs” is a most unsatisfactory busi-
ness. Do you mean to imply that a whitewash
bucket is more terrifying than a corpse? Personally
we should not think whitewash more terrifying than
(a) beetroot, (6) sealing-wax, (c) red ink....F.G.:
“Another Tragedy” is too thin and weak... .Buda-
wang: Utterly commonplace verse. If this is the
result of 10 years of silence, your only hope is to
keep silent altogether.... K. Ito: Not well enough
handled for so slight a theme. .. .Westerner: This
office is not an information bureau. Put on an ac-
countant and a detective and a black-tracker and
some other people on yearly salaries to find 0ut....
Pierre: No, “picture” doesn’t rhyme with “creature.”
It doesn’t even rhyme with “quadruped.”... .Queens-
lander: Oh, yes; plenty of European States have
sinking funds for the extinction of national debt. In
Belgium “there is a sinking fund for all description-
of the debt,” except a few trifles incurred in the old,
dark days—-the days of unenlightenment, which Aus-
tralia hasn't got out of yet. Austria and France
have amortisation funds. Norway pays approximately
1J per cent, into a sinking fund. Switzerland pays
rather more into its sinking fund than it pays in
interest. In Sweden “all the Joans are paid off
gradually by means of sinking funds.” (“States-
man’s Year Book.”) In Holland the sinking fund
amounts to about 4 per cent. And there are others.
Australia, in fact, is about the only country that
makes no regular effort to get out of pawn.... A-
ntonia: That story was nlregav old when Bearuppides
and Dryashides were tljp two kings of Sparta....
Concertina: “Night on the Coast” is very du11....
Barcoo Billy: Can’t say we will take pars, until we
see them. Of the two forwarded one will do.


; lIS
MU*
wßaßmSk* ’ 4 '
M v
-•-•<
mfr; - ;\vp'
. >,-r
9**s
r*
-V.
•v
........
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8.,
M.D., etc.,
writes: “Taking an interest in all
subjects relating to food, I have
procured samples of Sanatogen
and subjected them to experi-
ment. . . .
“ In my opinion, it is the or-
ganic phosphorus which makes
Sanatogen of such value. . . .
A series of experiments proved
that Sanatogen is easily and com-
pletely digested. I have arrived
at the conclusion that Sanatogen
is a substance of the highest
nutritive value, containing as it
does a large amount of organic
phosphorus—that is, phosphorus
which is offered to the tissues in
exactly the form in which it can
be easily absorbed. It is an ex-
cellent nerve food.”
“The Medical Times”
says: ‘ ‘ There is no doubt what-
ever that the nutrition of patients
taking Sanatogen improves won-
derfully, due, in all probability,
to its being easy of assimilation
and to the organic absorbable
phosphorus which it contains.”
A thousand times this number of Physicians endorse
SANATOGEN
The Royal Tonic Food.
Over fourteen thousand practising physicians have recorded in writing their high
opinion of Sanatogen, and many thousands more are daily prescribing it with the
most beneficial results in cases of debility, brain fag, lack of vitality, sleepless-
ness, disordered digestion, poverty of blood and various wasting diseases.
Can you ask for more convincing testimony of Sanatogen’s value than the
fact that it is thus publicly endorsed and recommended by practically the whole
medical profession ?
Among the original letters in praise of Sanatogen which are filed for public
inspection, there are many from world-famous physicians whose names stand
for the highest scientific achievements. Their advice, and the example of
distinguished men like those mentioned here, it is safe for you to follow.
Irresistible as this evidence is, the reader can only realise the wonderful
revivifying effects of Sanatogen by taking it himself when his nervous system
and bodily strength have been undermined by overwork, worry or disease.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR FREE HEALTH BOOK.
You can buy Sanatogen at any chemists. Write to-day for a free copy of
Dr. Andrew Wilson’s health book, “ The Art of Diving.” Please mention this
paper, and address your postcard to:
A. WULFING & CO.,
17 BOND STREET,
SYDNEY.
Prof. Dr. C. A. Ewald,
of Berlin University, writes: “I
have used Sanatogen in a number
of cases, mainly of a nervous or
neurasthenic origin, and have
obtained excellent results.’*
Mr. Hall Caine,
the celebrated Author and Dram-
atist, writes: “My experience
of Sanatogen has been that as a
tonic nerve food it h&s on more
than one occasion done me good. ”
Mr. W. Rhodes,
the famous Yorkshire Cricketer,
writes: “ I have given Sanatogen
a good trial, and found it a
splendid tonic.”
Mr. A. G. Hales,
the famous War-Correspondent:
“ I find my health benefits by
every tin of Sanatogen. It re-
vitalises a man, and is not a
drug.”
\
A
Phone-y
Dialogue
She : “ That you, Phil ? ”
HeYes, dear; what’s wrongP”
She: “ Well, you’re a very naughty boy. I asked
you to bring me a bottle of Odol t and you’ve brought me
some other dentifrice that 1 can’t possibly use. What
did you ask for, stupid ?”
He: “Oh, 1 was in a hurry and I forgot the name,
and the man handed me something that I presumed
was all right.”
She: “Oh, Phil, you should do as you’re told.
Here have 1 been using Odol for months and months,
■and feeling and looking very much better for it, as you
know. Why, you said the other day it was a treat to
see me smile nowadays, my teeth looked so lovely—and
then you go and forget 1 ”
He: “I’ll bring you half-a-dozen bottles to-night.
1 admit it was an awful blunder on my part. But wait
a minute, dear. Hold the line. (Resumes after a pause.)
Of course, Odol— o—d—o 1. Odol—the scientific
dentifrice. The dentifrice that the society beauties are
all using, and which the actresses crack up so.”
She: “What do you know about actresses?”
He: “Only as much as they show me from behind
the footlights when you go with me to the theatre,
darling. Of course, I know Odol. Don’t 1 share your
bottle P 1 find it makes the mouth so fresh, and
keeps the teeth in fine fettle for eating —(sotto voce)
and drinking.”
She: “That’s it.”
He: “The stuff that the doctors and the
dentists recommend.”
She: “Yes, yes, that’s it —Odol.”
He: “The liquid antiseptic dentifrice, that
puts all other dentifrices and tooth-powders, tooth-
pastes, and tooth-soaps out of the running.”
She: “That’s it, you darling.”
He: “That keeps the teeth from decaying, and the
mouth from bad tastes and the breath from malodors,
and really costs less than other dentifrices because it
lasts so long—and all that.”
She: “Why, you splendid Phil, you know all about
it, after all.”
He: “Yes, my typist, Miss Smith, has just been
posting me.”
She: “What’s that you sayP”
He: “Yes, love, I’ll bring
you the bottles—Sweet
Rose - flavored Odol
for you —the Stand-
ard Odol, with the
stronger flavor,
shall be mine.
I’ll not forget.”
She : “ But
what’s that
about Miss —
what do you call
herP ” Miss —
Miss —”
He: “Oh, I’ll
not miss anything this
time, sweetest. By-by.”
(Rings off.)
&


XMAS GIFT SUGGESTIONS
IA d? Fronx. |
A.oaunders
(
%
08
trG>
7/6.
BEDROOM WATCH-CASE,
solid silver, richly embos-
sed. Including watch, 12/6.
Solid Silver HAT or CLOTH BRUSH,
richly embossed, best bristles.
-xsod:
XMAS
GIFT
BOOKLET
FREE.
Solid Silver HAND MIRROR, full size,
handsomely embossed.
WR3
4/6-
Real Mother-of-Pearl Shell TRINKET
STAND or ASH TRAY; ebony base;
solid silver mounted.
25/.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated, beauti-
fully embossed; size, sin x 3iin.
2/6-
New Art Copper PHOTO FRAME,
mounted on solid Oak, richly em-
bossed, oxidised finish, midget size.
Very Full and Very Varied are our Wonderful Gift Selections. Just the
Beautiful, Practical Ideas (a little different from elsewhere) that everybody likes.
OUR FREE XMAS GIFT BOOKLET is a Wonderful Help to Gift-
buyers. Let us Send You a Copy. The Prices Throughout are Decidedly Low.
10/6
SPIRIT FLASK, pure
silver-plated, screw
top, Morocco covered.
mm
mvfk
s3.J
7/6.
Handsome cut-glass
TOILET BOTTLE, pure
silver mounted, richly
embossed.
4/6.
Plush HANDKERCHIEF
embossed, silver-plated,
silver mounts.
BOX,
nickel-
4/6
Solid Silver-mounted
Cut-glass head SALTS
BOTTLE, patent
hinge top, embossed.
4/6.
S lid Silver HAIR COMB, handsomely embossed.
25/.
TOBACCO BOX, solid silver, richly hand-engraved,
9ct gold shield, self-acting spring lid, gilt lined.
20/.
GENT’S CASE, solid leather, contain-
ing pure silver Military Hair Brush
and Comb, Cloth or Hat Brush.
■
4/e-
Pure silver-mounted
midget size, Church of
England HYMN or
PRAYER BOOK.
Solid Silver,
Burnished
21/.
Finest Quality, Handsomely Fluted and
HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Silver-drawn
Bristles. In Case.
11.
CHINA FLOWER
VASE, dainty floral
design; postage extra.
m
m
6/6.
Fine Hobnail Cut-glass
TOILET BOTTLE, pure
silver mounted, richly
burnished.
Fine Hobnail Outclass SUNDRY
BOX, richly embossed, solid silver
top.
Gent’s solid silver
plain, concave
MILITARY HAIR
BRUSH, best
bristles.
8/6-
Black Vulcanite FOUNTAIN PEN, 14ct Gold Nib, complete with Filler.
120/-
SHAVING CUP, pure silver-
plated, white metal, em-
bossed, gilt lined.
• 4/e-
STUD BOX, pure silver-plated,
richly hand-engraved.
“Empire” design solid sil-
ver HAIR BRUSH, finest
quality, hand-drawn bristles.
XMAS
GIFT
BOOKLET
FREE.
Juvenile SPOON AND FORK, pure
silver-plated, nickel silver, richly
embossed.
12/G.
SMOKING PIPE, real briar, silver screw
and mount, amber mouth-piece.
20/.
Solid Silver MANICURE
prising Powder Jar, Pair
File, and Cuticle Knife,
Morocco case.
SET, com-
Scissors, Nail
in silk-lined
SYDNEY’S
LEADING
JEWELLER
n
AUND
a
807, 809. BH. 613.. 615. 617. OEOPQE. ST (opposite Railway_Statjon2^
MITI-I
SILVE
1
O
T\
■
S
©
m
ER
M
CLO'©


J
rSA'
7?/s_
300
3*
/
&
$
,-y
■Jr>a
11
%
H
•' :, y i *
t mi
tj)(S
BRA
m 8
floor ftuSP
$8
I i
2K®
»
HB
1
Irfl
m
\s
.
*v
I
Ml
mm
i
m
Wi
m
wm
*jex
rjflfa
SI
m
mm
W'M
m
&OT6
'M
Msg'
m
ft OfTtHjUi
■ :. y
m
S 3
' J
v
X 2
?:■■?
(V
RooiHus* 1
—"" \
•‘ ■t\- iW»
wiiSs
sSs®
IISS^S^PISSK'a®
!$*
*¥? E
«S>S
■
sua^Bli
/ :y
M3&&I
ylfP^y
.....\
SS~*3«»*m
CSS - i
CHS
'•:."y-y*
mf'Td
m@Mmm
i&ISP
s
Ssfess
«3p
asSKraS
rvri^AA«iajiyv ■! . v . -val**
r —; Tfl'l#%f
B J2M&,
P§
SV^V-V^
9i&MM»nt»Mift
; c
HI
* 1)5 ~5
C -*
%
<?
i }££* \r it-, $ ¥§ik&M!Bi
:vs
Q
&
ms
y iL*^V/*^ v *-' ‘‘ * ■&
• >^*"'y
ss«S
~>'.-i'r : '
m
aftt
l^em
■w
P
O
n
P^:
|V>
fevSV',
->■
sj
J?
<r
sw
T
1 i»l
r
v/;
Cf-5
\ \St.
1
,'C'jh
r***
IS
S'Zl^a
&
55%-
\
O V
\
y-
S 3
>ca;
:■ Cy
S 5«
(«
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Flies at top speed
In the blue.
Upturned faces
Far, far down,
Watch him skimming
O’er the town.
Suddenly from
Out a cloud
Tins flash downward
Tc the crowd.
And they hear a
Clear voice call,
“Cobra! Cobra
Over all 1"


THE FIRST OPEN-AIR
ROOF GARDEN
in the Commonwealth of Australia has now been opened by
MR. G. MATOOREROS,
Proprietor of the well-known Cafe, 68 and 70 Swanston Street, and Queen’s
Walk, near Collins Street, Melbourne,
For Afternoon Tea, Dinner and Supper.
G. MATOOREKOS, Proprietor.
W:
r i, ‘ , ™«r tv’T
1 ° <
m
’
9
In Engineers' Tools and Requirements we don't stock the
patterns used by the late George Stephenson.
The Stock is brought right into line with the date on this paper.
Besides Engineers' Tools we are recognised as the house for a
full line of Plumbers' Modern Requisites.
We are Manufacturers and Importers of Engineers' Steam
Brass Work and Boiler Mountings.
SPECIALITIES:
STOCKS AND DIES ALL SIZES AND MAKES.
EXTENSION FRAME HACK SAWS.
TWIST DRILLS. LATHES.
PIPE AND TUBE OF ALL KINDS.
JOHN RANKS 8 SON PROPTY. LTD.,
Plumbers and Engineers’ Supply House,
324 PITT ST., near Liverpool St., SYDNEY.
imiHlllllHllllllilllllllHllllllllllllllHltl
\
y?
V
3S
Everyone Says How Simple!
You have nothing to learn before you can use a
Gillette Safety Razor. You simply lather & shave
straight away. There is no stropping or honing-
No trouble of any sort.
Even if you have never used a razor before, you cannot
go wrong, because the curved guard brings the edge to
the correct shaving angle always. The Gillette Safety
Razor is used by over 4\ million men because it gives a
perfectly clean and close shave with the greatest comfort.
It is the one razor that is adjustable to
individual needs —enabling it to shave
a coarse beard just as smoothly and easily
as it does a finer growth.
0 STROPPING NO HONING
9
'
Write for
Illustrated
Book! et
“ Hints on Shaving” and "The Razor’s
Edge and How it Shaves,” sent post
free on application. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, LTD.
40-44, Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Works : Leicester, England.
This illustration shows the
Standard Gillette Set, in velvet-
lined morocco case, with 12
blades (24 cutting edges). Ihe
Combination Sets with Gillette
shaving soap and brush are ideal
for gifts and holiday use.
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere.
iiniiniii
niimiimniiminiimm
IIIULLU
A
OltiOQ
/
to**
1
'Or#
fiPiiipiMi
m*
tma
H. B. Irving has scored a success as “Nobody,” in
the Drury Lane production of “Everywoman”
vised and polished up by poet Stephen Phillips.
Critics agree that H.B.’s “Nobody” is the triumph
of the acting. By the way, Cassell and Co. have
just published a book about the young man -an
appreciation of his career as actor and author,
“J.F ”: Sunday shows are still being vigorously
discussed here in London. A leading American
manager, Colonel H. W. Savage, has been telling
how the system works on his side. ’Frisco and St.
Louis insist on Sunday night shows, and managers
have to meet the demand. Chicago is the same.
People there are . paid on Saturday night, and they
would not spend a happy Sunday if they did not
wind up the Sabbath diversion with a visit to a
theatre or music hall. In other cities, where the
German element is numerous, Sunday night shows
are a necessity. But there are a few centres of
culchaw—like Boston and Philadelphia—that do not
want such frivolities, and will not have them. It
is largely “a question of local conditions. But,
adds Col. Savage, “we don’t get our legitimate,
critical, residential audiences until the Monday.
They give us the real verdict.”
“J.F.”: Another of the old brigade on the rocks—
Richard Temple, creator of the Mikado, Dick Dead-
eye and other leading roll's in the Gilbert and Sulli-
van operas. He was discovered in poverty and
obscurity at Southend, near London. A fund has
been started, and a big benefit matinee performance
is -being organised.
From London: Sydney-born beauty Marie Lohr,
who recently became Mrs. Prinsep, does not mean
to allow that small matter to interfere with her
stage ambitions. She is rehearsing the leading she-
part in “Doormats,” a new play by Hubert H.
Davies, to be produced almost at once at Wynd-
ham’s.
“Rosna” (from London) : At the Scala Theatre,
where the kinemacolor shows the Durbar, Corona-
tion, Investiture and similar Royal jinks, you can
actually see gay crowds of Sydney surf-bathers now-
o’-nights, with pictures of beauty _ competitions and
other things indigenous to Australia Felix.
Edmund Gwenn, the brainy comedian .whom the
Williamson firm imported with the original Ben
Hur” co. for Australia, has broken out as a manager
in London, in partnership with a Miss Trevelyan.
Their first production, “Little Miss Llewelyn, ’ is
said to be a draw. For that matter, the first at-
tempt of any new management ought to be a success,
otherwise the venture doesn’t justify itself.
Dena Cooper, an Australian girl who was in “The
Fatal Wedding,” but escaped, was at latest collect-
ing complimentary press notices in Seattle (U.S.A.).
Her work in a one-act playlet called “The Confes-
sion” incited one critic to call her “the Olga
Nethersole of vaudeville.”
“Badnib” : The announcement that the newest Ade-
laide theatre is to be named the Princess leads me
to ponder as to whether the naming of theatres as
“The King’s,” “Her Majesty’s,” and so on, is mere
habit or pure grovel. The naming of theatres seems
to be a study in the inappropriate. For instance,
a stranger hearing there was an Opera House in Mel-
bourne would naturally imagine the building was
specially erected for high-class operas, but on enter-
ing the place lie would be surprised to find, maybe,
an individual performing musical selections on a
couple of jam-tins, or a pair of coons singing rag-
time. If he heard there was a Lyric Theatre in
Sydney, he’d guess it to be the home of poetry and
music. Instead, he would get a dose of flickeritis.
And he would get some more at the Lyceum, which
was never an intellectual gymnasium in its life.
I’m waiting to crown with a wreath of gumleaves
the individual who is plucky enough to give his
show place, a real Australian native name. Wouldn’t
seem loyal, p’raps, but ’twould be patriotic; ami
Patriotism covers a multitude of errors.
“Ruru”: The comedian seems to have the best
end of the theatrical stick. The two actors who
of recept years left most cash behind them were
J. L. Toole and Edward Terry. Remember Terry’s
“Churchwarden” at the London Olympic Theatre,
somewhere about ’B7. The play was an uproarious farce
in three acts, in which Terry kept the middle of the
stage nearly all the time. It was in danger of being an
awful frost. The Olympic was then a house in the
theatrical byways, and nothing produced there had
Scored heavily for some time. Terry evolved a notable
advertising dodge. Scores of sandwich-men paraded
the streets, carrying on their shoulders enormous
churchwarden pip.es. The strange implements were
about 10ft. long,.'and the procession made an impos-
ing spectacle. Tne scheme worked, the play went
like a bush fire/and Terry stayed long in London; as
its best laughter-maker. By the time of his death
he had accumulated £44,056, and if death hadn’t
cut him short he might have heaped up £44,057.
“Screen”: .Australian biographs give Bernhardt
as Elizabeth. Sounds odd to write that Sally Heart-
burn is too fat for anything, but she is rather over-
plump for Bess. What a make-up she could have
done in the generation before last! I recall your
Elizabeths in Australia: Ristori, Mrs. Majeroni,
Nance O’Neil and Miss Elva Rogers, who quite
embodied ZuccherO’s portrait in a recent Melbourne
amateur production of German’s opera, “Merrie Eng-
land.” Mrs. Majeroni made up fairly. Riston and
the O’Neil were out of it. The play given by all
these three was a very indifferent one by the Italian
Giacometti, who wrote this and Marie Antoinette
for Ristori. Elizabeth figures prominently m Louis
Parker’s “Ifrake,” produced by Beerbohm Tree, and
to be seen in Australia next year.
“Ivanger” : Has Australia ever produced a snappier
work of local manufacture than the jiu-jitsu turn
which Fred Leslie and Ivy Schilling contribute to
“Florodora” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) ? The combi-
nation of noveltv, agilitv, grace, adroitness and
humor is. remarkable. . The glorious figure of the
woman is equally well matched and contrasted with
the figure of the man, who is only a trifle the tallei
of the pair. They go through their strenuous man-
oeuvres with a perfectly balanced skill. “Some exer-
cises in the gentler arts of jiu-jutsu is the pro-
gramme’s definition of these exciting gambols, but
they would seem dangerously rough if the artists
were less expert. Leslie is said to have devised the
“turn” from two years’ study of the tricks and man-
ners of Jap wrestlers, and Miss Schilling is the apt
pupil who has bettered his-, instruction. .They stand
for Gravity and Gaiety, she being the joyous one.
They lack only one charm for an Australian aud-
ienc;e__they were not imported at enormous expense
from London or Paris. Their turn is not “the talk
of Europe.” It would be if they took it there.
A STREET SINGER.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Veiled and with slow and wavering step she comes
The step that ‘tells the secret of her years.
Her broken voice is hoarse and thin with tears ;
Homeless, she sings old songs of loves and homes,
And the wide streets and skies hear all her pain.
Men pause and listen —laugh and pass again.
One knotted hand holds o er her aching breast
The worn plaid shawl to shield her from the wind,
And loitering youths, kerb-herding with their kind,
Fling to accustomed ears a coarser jest,
While from some window high above the throng
A woman's face leans out to heed the song.
A paltry gift of coin! She curtseys low.
Her stooping form still keeps an Old World grace,
And if the breeze should lift from her white face
That guarding veil, old beauties it might show,
Something that Time has not yet garnered in—
A regal line of brow, a rounded chin.
Veiled, with a slow and dragging step she comes,
The step that echoes of the hopeless years,
And all her voice is full of unshed tears.
Homeless, she sings old runes of loves and homes,
And the uncaring skies hear all her pain !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


PPIW
St
W
fi\h lb*
C aivnot
Cleans I
ILegula
BritbK
FlajK.
elf.
cure
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 Grand Prize St. Louis 1904
KALODERMA
PREPARATIONS
F. WOLFF & SOHN, Karlsruhe and London
Kaiotfenna Jelly
prepared with glycerine <sc honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable # efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knlodermfl Soup
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening# improving the sKin.
Knlodermn Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. uc/' Uc/'
Knlodermn Stinting Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
fl refined luxury at a popular price. ucT Ucr ucT • UcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
ã
<9tpt?4snoft[ pj pjoj 61
Many a man envies the possessor of a smart moustache, yet you may grow
one quite simply with the aid of CAPILLARINE. It has a 25 Years’
brilliant record, and simply cannot fail if you follow the simple directions.
Get a jar to-day.
Price 10/6 Jar, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER (worn at night) shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, S/6 each, Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Craig &, AitKen,
654 a George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
Ice Cream leans loney
to the Retailer !
Retailers of every description—such as chemists, storekeepers, fruiterers and
refreshment-room proprietors—-can add wonderfuly to their incomes by installing
the “Latest Patent Ice Cream Freezer.” Makes Ice Cream cheaply, quickly, and
makes it delicious, too.
Simple in construction, hard to get
out of order, lasts a lifetime and gives
satisfaction throughout. Prices to suit
all persons. Stocked in 6 sizes—6,
8, 10, 12, 14, and 20 quarts. Write
NOW for details of this money-making
machine.
SILVER-PLATED GLASS
HOLDERS, for Bell-shaped
Tumblers, neat, strong and
durable. Tumblers to suit.
X
GLASS FRUIT BOWL, with
Ladle, E.P. Lid, attractive ap-
pearance.
JA'PLE Moiij
mouiw
“E cream FREEHS
Write for Catalogue of SODA FOUNTAIN
and REFRESHMENT ROOM SUPPLIES.
ICE CREAM DISHER. Absolutely the best obtain-
able. Simple to handle, strongly made. A REAL
Disher, NOT a toy.
It will pay you to get this Catalogue.
Every retailer, hotelkeeper, etc.-
should have it. Those who wish to
start in their own business will find
all they want in this volume. It is full
of articles that are veritable little
gold mines—especially now the hot
weather is with us. WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOGUE—NOW!! It will cost you
, nothing. _____
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD..
“The Most Up-to-date Soda Fountain and Refreshment Room Suppliers In Australia,”
107 GEORGE STIVEET (Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
STEWART DAWSON’S Offer
The Goods that Alien Appreciate
at First Cost Prices.
The articles, illustrated hereunder , will appeal strongly by their usefulness,
designs and lasting service. They are the products of skilled and faithful
workmanship, and represent the summit of manufacturing excellence.
IVe pay full postage on all goods, and send our Illustrated Art
Catalogue, post free, on request.
Hl6l.—Solid Silver Hatch
Box, 7/6.
Other Designs at 8/0, 10/6
12/6, 15/6, 18/0. ’
H432l.—Best Silver-plated
Tobacco Box, 8/6.
Round, Plain, 6/6.
01653. —Nickel Shaving Com-
bination, set with movable
mirror, 27/6.
Others from 8/6 to 70/-
m
Sterling
Shaving
0/6,
Silver-mounted
Tidys. Prices,
10 6, 12/6,
17/6, 25/-
G96l2.—Solid Silver and Cut
Glass Card Marker and Ash
Tray, 16/6.
The “Kwikpak” Collar Box. The
new Leather Collapsible Collar Box.
Best English Make, Real Pig Skin.
Price 12/6
Best Quality Tobacco Pouches, with
Silver Shields, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6,
7/6. 9ct. Gold Shields, 11/6,
12/6, 13/6, 15/6. Kangaroo,
Deer or Antelope Skins.
JBlll. —The Treasure Safety Razor will
always insure a quick and delightful
Shave. Best Quality, 12/6.
H92l9.—Solid Silver Cigarette
Box, to hold 50.
Price, £3/12/6
J32SO. —Ditto, Silver Mounted.
10/6.
E629£. Pocket
Fruit Knives, solid
Silver Blades, with
Moth er-o’-Pearl
Handles. Prices,
2/6, 3/6, 4/6,
J 9504. —The dust-proof “Automatic’
Roll-up, S lver-plated Shaving . Strop
best quality, 20/-
KLIP-KLIP.
Pocket Manicure, Nail Cutter, File and
Cleaner Combined. Best Quality Sil-
ver-plate on German Silver.
Price, 2/C.
02S96.—The very latest
Silver-mounted Walking
Stick, with Automatic
Cigar or Cigarette Lighter
concealed inside, 30/-
Stewart Dawson & Co.
STRAND CORNER, (Aust.) Limited
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
Other Stewart Dawson Establishments:—Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
Wellington (N.Z.), Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Hatton Gar-
den, E.C., and Regent Street, London, W.


HORSESHOE
SALMON
comes direct to you fresh from the fisheries, ready
for serving at a moment’s notice. The number
of dishes which can be prepared from a tin of
Horseshoe Salmon is only limited by the in=»
genuity of the cook. See that you get Horseshoe.
$
If
THE
BURBERRY
TOPCOAT.
WEATHERPROOF WITHOUT WEIGHT
PROTECTIVE WITHOUT HEAT.
Woven and proofed to afford better protection against rain
and all forms of damp; greater comfort and more lasting
service than any others.
Healthy and Rubberless, its generous cut affords freedom for
movement on foot or in the saddle.
U N LINED, g©/- LIMED WOOL, 105/-
Ctmiked
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
Saloon!
[For The Bulletin.]
By the Kuranda, which left Iniiisfail (Geraldton)
for Townsville on Thursday, were 10 Chinese in the
saloon and 19 Europeans.— Brisbane paper.
I saw Ah Sin, who travelled by saloon;
He gaily smoked a fragrant, fine cigar:
lie wore a tailored suit, and hummed a tune,
And called for sundry whiskies at the bar:
His wife was with him in her satins clad,
Her baby feet encased in tiny shooii:
And with her went a little saffron lad.
I say. Ah Sin was travelling by saloon.
I saw Ah Sin as in the days of old,
When packed he came like herrings in a
tin;
When like a beast of burden he was sold
By brother Ghows who shore him to the
skin;
I saw the rout in Palmer’s early days.
When diggers drove the slant-eyed crowd
before;
A thousand pigtails flew a thousand ways,
A thousand heathen yelled a wild “Whaf-
for!”
Back to my mem’ry flashed a vision then
Of squalid hut wherein he once abode:
Of swinish filth that gathered round his den.
Of baskets twain that held his weary
load ;
I heard his morning cry of “Cabbagee!”
And saw him smile on Jane or Maly Ann:
I heard the gibe of burly Pat Magee—
“Begob, the crayture’s talkin’ like a
man!” •
I saw them dig his brother from the coal
Of some big liner bound for Sydney town;
I saw the starvling snap at any dole
The kindly seamen’s pity flung him down;
I fancied then the foetid life he fled
In horrid slum of Canton or Han-Kow;
When he could face a coffin-trip so dread.
What was behind this gaunt and coaly
Chow?
But now the times have changed. At home
his kin
Have done their Manchu rulers fairly
brown;
Have cut their six-foot pigtails to the skin,
And turned their ancient China upside
down;
And Sin. who once a scapegoat seemed for
all
Who fancied he was weak and they were
slick,
Now looks as if his back were to the wall.
And he who once was football now would
kick.
And so Ah Sin now travels by saloon.
And in the deck-chair takes his portly
doze ;
He wears his silken ’jamas ’neath the moon,
And spreads abroad his genial adipose;
No more unkempt and ragged as of yore,
He bears his load beneath the burning
noon ;
With rings and diamonds flashing to the
fore,
I say, Ah Sin now travels by saloon.
QUEENSLAND. F. B.
NOT AN ACTOR.
"Is he much of an actor?”
"Not much. Pretty fair in Shakspeare. But,
Gad, sir! he can’t patter or do a clog
dance for sour apples.”
T. G. Gibson, a citizen of the Ma State,
who has been roughing it in the Peninsula
that pokes its nose up towards the Equator,
says that Japs are everywhere in that coun-
try, and they know every detail of It. They
could tell Gibson the anchorage places, and
where to get water, and put him on to other
useful information. The pearling and beche-
de-mer industries are in their hands, the
provision debarring them from holding
licenses being grotesquely unsuccessful.
Queensland municipal authorities, backed
up by a metropolitan daily, are whining for
a restoration of the old endowment system
under which State doles relieved Bumble of
the duty of effective taxation. About two
years ago a shire council deputation wailed
to Denham about the burdens of taxation,
and asked him for a loan of £l5OO for a
bridge. Denham put a few deft questions,
and ascertained that that council’s total in-
come was only f 4 OO. and that the rate struck
was id. in the £!
A NOCTURNE.
“ Hi, you fiend, wake up! I can stand a plain snore, but I bar those damnable variations .”
Tom Glassey, Queensland’s first Labor
member, who might still have been the Nor-
thern party’s leader if his head hadn’t gone
on growing in girth long after his feet had
stopped, is prodding the Liberal party, and
asking it to consider his great claims to be
that piebald horse’s rider for the new Lilley
(Federal) electorate.
The I'pwnsville Bulletin is tasting all
sorts of luck, Its weekly, the N.Q. Regis-
ter, lately came out with 92 pages, making
what the paper itself averred was a record
for the North. Two days later the premises
were ablaze, and the Daily Bulletin issued
itself on one small sheet, with apologies for
its sad bereavement.
At the recent wool sales in Brisbane there
was a record yarding of 50,000 bales. Bris-
bane first had the joy of hearing the wool-
buyers bark in 1898, when 11,000 bales were
sold. Since then the figure has been climb-
ing all the while; but a check will pfobably
come now from the Central Queensland
sales, which are to be held at Rockhampton.
The evidence given at the inquiry into the
disappearance of William Roseby from the
s.s Wodonga between Townsville and Bris-
bane makes an astounding sea-story. Roseby
was missed, and inquiries were made: but it
was not till some days later that a fireman
casually mentioned to the boatswain that
the missing man must be the bloke he saw
go over the side. The boatswain told the
chief officer, but that worried functionary
does not appear to have taken the yarn seri-
ously ; he made no mention of it in the log,
and did not even report it to the captain.
That he did not send for the fireman and
question him is quite understandable—a fire-
man who does not mention till two days
later that he saw a bloke go over the side in
mid-ocean is quite an impossible subject, and
liable to cause an officer to lose his temper.
It is only fair to say that the fireman’s ver-
sion of the story remains untold, and as he
has quitted the ship and forgotten to leave
an address it may possibly remain untold.
Still, as there are suggestions of drunken
rows, stolen money, and possible murder, it
is highly desirable that the casual fireman
should be hunted up and requested to tell
exactly what he did see when the “bloke
went over.”
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 2, 1912.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
This has been a dreary week without the
thrill even of a tea scramble. The only
flutter in the hamlet was the Munro-Tanner
wedding on Thursday. The ’groom is one
of the pearling Munros, and the pretty little
bride is a daughter of Mrs. Tanner, of South
Brisbane. Tanner pere, when alive, had in-
terests in the Solomon Islands. The splicing
was done on the main deck of the Cathedral,
with Canon Pattinson as officer in charge.
The wedding garment was of lawn and lace,
topped off with a headpiece of ruched aero-
plane. Another of the Tanner family was
bride’s understudy, and Dr. Shaw did the
giving away. Later in the day, the newly-
wed clambered aboard the China boat Em-
pire, and started on a two-years’ tour in the
worn tracks of the globe-trotter. After that,
they will be glad to return and Settle down
in Australia.
His Scotchellency Macgregor, who is
“batching” these days, was present at a con-
cert given by the burgoo-and-haggis section
of the communityh-on Thursday in honor of
the purchase of the Centennial Hall by the
Scawtch Association and Burns Club. A
kilted band droned the chiel into his seat,
and a programme, which included not more
than 23 performers, unwound itself slowly,
with frequent stoppages for entirely un-
necessary encores. In the interval, sonsy
bairns bit at string-suspended buns, and
endeavored to lift apples from a tub with
their unassisted molars, and joined in other
pastimes peculiar to the aborigines of Cale-
donia.
The temperature to-day was about 1050
in the shade of the telegraph wire, judging
by the feel of the atmosphere ; nevertheless,
hospital “tag” day was the occasion of in-
defatigable labor on the part of a consider-
able number of responsible enthusiasts. The
system is certainly an improvement on the
old method of collecting or commandeering
small change from man by wheedling him
with the goo-goo eye or pursuing him even
to his last stand in the sanctuary where the
peaceful barmaiden soothes his brow (or
something) with milk and turpentine. A
“tag” cost a shilling, and having obtained
one, man was, for the nonce, unhunted. He
deserves a rest occasionally.
Mrs. John Hicks returned from America
this week, leaving daughter Gladys to winter
in California with Mrs. Spencer Smith.
Mrs. Nixon Smith, who has just come
back after a trip to England, fed about 200
friends at the Dutton Park kiosk on Friday.
The kiosk is high, overlooks one of the pret-
tiest parts of the river and catches the
breeze, all of which makes it a popular out-
door browsing nlace at this time of year.
Mrs. Nixonsmith (all these Smiths ought to
be compelled by law to make one job of it
like that) wore a grey and lavender crea-
tion and a pansy-encircled hat built in
Paris. That makes you wince, Thargomin-
dah —you who have to wear a mere Aus-
tralian cadey !
The bicycle sports drew big crowds to-
day, but everybody who is anybodv got into
its latest garments and peacocked about the
lawn at Ascot. Celia Cooper, the Chief
Justice’s daughter, sported another white
frock and a blue hat: Mrs. Stanley Chap-
man looked her graceful self in cream lace;
and a host of girleens wore white muslins
or voiles, many of them embroidered in the
queer, dull colors that are so much seen at
present.
A particularly shocking thing occurred
this week. A popular girl in Warwick,
whose marriage should have taken place in
about a fortnight, received a box of choco-
lates by post, and after eating two, died.
A friend who partook of one chocolate from
the box very nearly went the same sad road.
The why, what and who are still a
at time of writing.
' Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The Denman Government has just introduced
a Public Servants’ Superannuation Bill, in
which it is provided that the State shall
subsidise the fund to the tune of £5OOO per
annum —a quite unsound principle. The
taxpayer has already contributed £260,000 in
the last 20 years to the rotten Police Super-
annuation Fund, so he knows the meaning
of State subsidy.
Election appeals are the rich man’s game
all the time. Labor has just appealed in
two cases and forced two new elections, and
in both of them the Liberals have come off
victorious. The Liberals appealed in one
ease, got the election declared null and void,
and won that seat, too. Labor seldom wins
an appeal in Bananaland, and when it does
the expense is crippling.
Brisbane boating men are perpetually
bombarding Minister Appel about turning
St. Helena into a pleasure resort. Appel
obdurately refuses, and the rowing and
yachting people whisper that he shows them
no consideration. Appel alleges that he
considers them all the time —a delicate way
of alluding to the fact that he is enlarging
the accommodation and improving the cell-
comforts of the prison which occupies most
of the islet.
On the second appeal to Port Curtis elec-
tors, Laborite Breslin lost his seat by 96
votes. Kessell, the new member, is the
Mayor of the lethargic city of Gladstone,
where he runs the Observer in a ponder-
ous way. Likewise he is part owner of
Turkey Station, which was often mentioned
in the sensational Daniells murder case.
Kessell will now be a busy man —that is, if
he makes any attempt to keep his half-score
of large promises.
JUDGE CHUBB (QUEENSLAND).
Denham’s Liquor Bill, which renewed its
acquaintance with the Assembly the other
day, has lost several teeth in its absence.
When it was first hatched it aroused so much
opposition from some of Digby’s Fat friends
that the general strike and the political
upset came as a stroke of Providence to the
Government by giving it a chance to shelve
the obstreperous thing. The original Bill
prohibited the employment of discolored
cooks in hotels. That clause has now been
thrown into the slop-bucket on the plea that
it would be impossible to find enough cooks
with white skins and clean habits. To make
things pleasanter for Bung, murder has
been done to the old provision that a light
in the bar during prohibited hours should be
prima facie evidence that the pewter was
passing over the bar. Per contra, to make
things pleasanter for Cold Tea, it is pro-
vided in connection with local option that a
simple majority shall prevail, providing 25
per cent, of the voters have not been too
tired to visit the polling booth.


■
H
wm
■
■■'.V
Ef;- 1
;
■ •
m ■> -
v-
m
• : .
» ,
H
m
!
M
mm
mm
-ijSSfe
ar:<vj**»<t»
ssi:
■
. •
•-•■•. ■ '
l „*-> '&>
1
I'
'
1
m
>■
.fHE French grand Prix Motor Conitpj.
Tarco Florid MoYor ConYe>t.
cup OF SPAIN,
GRAND PRIX OF BELGIUM,
(THE KING’J CUP).
. 1912 ‘


Shipping.
Pand O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN an 4 LONDON.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135,, £l5 15s. & £l7 17s
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON &'CO., 11l
'* William Street. •
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: -GEO". WILLS & CO,
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
: Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Booms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
, Sailing every fortnight Iroin BRISBANE, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT H.N. CO,, Lta.,
12 Martin Place. Svdnev.
Bankin
Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
H3AD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers § Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
j)ank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
j "Subscribed Capital'and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD Of TICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General ..Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
• Local Director:
Adam FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns,-. Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS’*,ttln'ougliout \ AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and? THE EAST.
Transacts all Visual Banking Business. "
Bank of I) 61 " Z e^an| i-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000 t
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve 'Fund aPd Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
land, Fiji, Great
tilin' and Ireland, and other places. $
Bri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Bankimr
at ..Interest for
v fixed periods, and
business »
THE
Australian j}ank of gommerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under llio Companies Aet.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,00:0
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OEFICE—George mid King Streets, Svdnej-.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C,
DIRECTORS —Sir Wii.i.iam P. Manning, Kt., Chair.
Lilian; Gborgh J. Si.y, Esq., LTi.D. ; CniA-s. 11.
Myi.ks, Esq. ; Mark Shei.iion, Esq. ; AitfiiuiC S.
~ Barton;' Esq ; Frank N. Yakwood, Esq.
Brunches throughout New South Wales A Queensland.
Agencies throughout the'Australian; Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the..world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager:
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
i Incorporated under the Companies Act 1883. •.
j Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
I agreement extending to June 30. 1921. " f
Subscribed Capital .. ... . . £BOO.OOO O f 1
Capital Paid ’Up ‘ .. . ... 41.T.500 It f>
Reserve ‘(in Government Stock) . . 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock ) 3&91.G69' 4 5
i UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT,
j Ml new business since 1893 specially protected'.
i Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, oEsq. ; F, Lord, Esq,*; Geo. Edw. Buntiing,
Ijisq. ; Hon. G. W£Cray, M.L.C.
1 G!•'nKa \i. Man aukit• —-M • 1. RALSTON.
- INTEREST- ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS:—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2-
vears nr.d over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ire'and,
America. Canada. South Africa. Clvna the East
4 CORIIESPONDENT writes : “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of Ttte Lone llano is (Id
Shipping:.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egjpt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steauicrs fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —-
IIGHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYKR, VAN ItOMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MDJSCKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATaZZI k CO.. Perth and Fremantle ;
TIIOS.BROWN & SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane & TmynsviTle.
Mew Zealand Insurance ClVa.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
1 FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnktt & A. E. D’Aitcy, J..int. Managers.
COLORED POST CARDS' by Hurry J.
Weston ‘ ‘ WEEKLY AY()EEfES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ä
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
November 20.
RUMIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
December 18.
MEDIO, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares — ; Capptc* , n or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application,
TjlfGG AG K .Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
s.s. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE everv Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
For ADELAIDE, ALBANY and FREMANTLE, s.s.
KIYERINA, from Sydney, Saturday', November
16; from Melbourne, Wednesday, November 2.0.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnainbool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to three months, and ;
costing £5 to £25.
;
BURNS, PHILP & GO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
me*
DIRECTORS:
. i. £3,000,000
£2,035,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
The lion. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer,
Head Office—George St.. Sydney.
Richard BJnnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.MiG., M.L.C.
Q.'; Shepheard Kdfrecliff. Laidley, Esq.
mdon Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 109,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48,' South Australia 5 r Western. Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout ihe World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General; Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital ... . . 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq... .. .Chairman.
Mon. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. -J.■ Onslow/Tllom pson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Diims.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Sou Tar.
Accountant: \V. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. GraNt.
.Branch Accountant: J. Ci.ayton.
Inspectors: IV. C. B. Tiley, IV. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; lion. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
, Branches throughout -the State cf New South IVales
.arid in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . . . 159,054
-Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
t ■■ £773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. i — !
Mien Man . Edwd. D. Dari 'Akat. Man:: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budgre Bow, Cannon Street, London,
•21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND! E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the. IVorld.
fhe Colonial mutual [ifa
'• assurance: society limited
FOR
i Mutual Life, Assurance, Endowments and
■Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
'Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
II EAtr Opfi'C'e' :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South IVales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
■ Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “Pearl of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any point in
the UNITED STATES or CANADA.
ROUND THE WORLD TOURS,
First and Second Class.
ROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning
from Vancouver via Honolulu, Suva and
Auckland, or via the Orient.
STEAM ERS - S A TL—
MOAN A, AORANGI, TAHITI,
NOV. 30. DEC. 28, JAN. 25.
All Steamers equipped 'with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
•259 George Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
|“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL : £IEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
'SYDNEY, lIRLDOTTRNE,' ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports c
FOU MELBOURNE "\
ADELAIDE
POUT PIUTE
And GULF POUTS I
ALBANY f
FREMANTLE.
Transhippirur at Fremantle I
to all North Western Port-:, j
T.S.S. Warilda (7713 tons)
Wireless Telegraphy
Saturday, Novembei
23, carrying Ist anc
2nd Saloon and Steer
age Passengers. Mac
December 21.
BRISBANE
-MACK AY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North fco o*irns.
S.S. Wollowra, Nov. 9.
S.S. Grantala, Nov. 16.
S.S. lnnamincka, Nov. 23
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter
tile first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. VUILL Sc CO., LTD..
Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN R.M. LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE PACIFIC TOURS.
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAJ LINGS :
*New triple-screw Steamer, 13,000 tons register,
20,000 tons displacement.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STHAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD,
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. T. PRISKE, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE ..
ADELAIDE
sth DECEMBER
11th DECEMBER
17th DECEMBER
24th DECEMBER
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. ..£4O to £45. £l6/16/-to £lB/18/-
(4-berth.) (2-berth.)
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE, leaving Sydney, 24th December.
T.S.S. SUFFOLK, leaving Sydney, 21st January.
ALL FITTED WITH WIRELESS.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to —
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McKACHARN & CO., Melbourne
and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
TEN DAYS TO LONDON
FROM SAN FRANCISCO.
Sydney to San Francisco in 19 Days.
Via Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu. Saves 300 C
miles ocean travel. Includes: South Sea Islands.
Yosemite Valley, Rocky Mountains, Grand Canyon
ROUND WORLD TICKETS issued to return by-
all Suez and Cape Lines. Round Pacific Tickets,
Covering China, Japan, America, and Islands, at
Low Rates. For Rates of Passage and Freight apply
OCEANIC STEAM SHIP CO.,
44 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel., 2282 City.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
V
EVlarine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Building's. Stocks, Fu mi-
xture, &c:. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights
Passage: Money, ere.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United ” is rn Australian Institution.
THOMAS M, TINLfcY, Manager.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
171 IRE. ACCIDENT. WORKMEN’S COM-
- I'ENSATTON. PUBLIC RISK. BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
IF YOU LIKE DETECTIVE STORIES
you should not miss reading ‘‘The
Drawn Blind,” appearing in iiiE Lonb
Hand each month.


HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
LONDON.
NOWHERE in London exists the
equivalent of this famous r ainilj
Hotel, offering the atmosphere ot
a refined Knglish Home rather than
that of an hotel.
Its situation is healthy and plea-
sant, within a few minutes of the
city’s chief attractions by tubes,
motor-’buses, railways and taxi-cab
rank at the door.
Rooms, large, lofty and airy. Wide
corridors —private suites (cn famille),
including separate bathrooms. Every
thinkable modern convenience and
refined luxury. Most convenient for
visitors with interests in the City and
the Provinces, London’s five great
railway termini being within a few
minutes of the Hotel.
Telegrams, “ Centellare,” London.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
MODEL L
E D
THE HEART OE THE AUTOMOBILE—
Lmiu'sSchebkr Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving:.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
(N THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED
BY SUBSCRIPTION,
Albert E. Church’s Monumental Work on
Australian Unification
(The Policy of the Young Australia National Party).
The AVork will contain copies of
“Proposed New Constitution for Australia.”
“Swiss Constitution.”-
“South African Constitution.”
“American Constitution.”
“Canadian Constitution.”
And the great English Acts: —■
“Magna Charta,” ; “Bill of Rights,”
“Act of Settlement,” and “Habeas Corpus”
(A f ery difficult to'obtain elsewhere).
Printed in good Type on First-class paper. Bvo. p.p.
400. First Edition of 1000 Copies only.
PRICE 2/6 NET. POST FREE, 3/3.
Copies proposed “Australian Constitution,” 6d. each.
Send Remittances Direct.
To ALBERT E. CHURCH,
c/o THE AUSTRALIAN PAPER COMPANY,
93 CA STLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, N.L.VV.
„**ACT>,
■Sjg&
*Bllll
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three Per Cent, per annum allowed on all Deposits up to £3OO.
Agencies now open at local Post Offices
throughout practically the whole of Victoria,
Queensland and Northern Territory.
Melbourne, 25th October, 1912.
MELBOURNE AGENCY : 317 COLLINS STREET.
DENISON MILLER , Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
The “PLUM” Razor Makes the Difference
'!,* —-s
z#
fWi?
We Guarantee Every “Plum”
We Sell for Two Years.
It assures a quick, easy shave, without any face soreness
and redness. Its keen, ringing blade is exquisitely tempered,
to preserve its edge for a long period. We keep every
“Plum” sold in good order for 2 years free of charge. Send
to-day.
Price 10/6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Black Handle. 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN
<354a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY*
ESTABLISHED 30 YEABS.
ONE OF THE
Secrets of a Happy Home
is a
CHEERFUL LICHT.
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Limited,
111 PITT STREET, SYDMEY.
Directors :
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
No home can possibly be happy where the .LIGHTING AND HEATING System is faulty.
While the Head of the Household is displeased, every person therein’ -is miserable.
Among the difficulties that contribute to the servant trouble are BAD LIGHIING AND
HEATING.
Instal Quirk’s Air Gas System
THE LIGHT OF AUSTRALIA.
SBBmmmaammmmmmmmaßaamßßaßmmEMaamammammaaamtMi i ll f i ii —»i mmmm
The Cheapest of a/I Lights on the Market.
CHEAPER, even than COAL. GAS, and a much superior light.
A GREAT BOON TO THE HOUSEWIFE ON LAUNDRY DAY. No extra heating by big fires.
A GREAT CONSIDERATION IN HOT CLIMATES, besides being labor saving.
The FINEST HEATING AGENCY known for COOKING.
A Magnificent, Steady Light for the BILLIARD ROOM AND LIBRARY.
' A SYSTEM THAT SHOULD BE IN EVERY COUNTRY HOMESTEAD and Shearing Shed, in
the Men’s Quarters, and everywhere. ONE PLANT WILL SUFFICE FOR ALL.
QUIRK’S AIR GAS LIGHT
besides being SUPERIOR, is the CHEAPEST LIGHT KNOWN, is NON-EXPLOSIVE, NON-
POISONOUS, NON-ASPIIYXIATING, and perfectly INODOROUS.
But you must have the QUIRK MACHINE, in order to be assured of a perfect result in all
climates. So keep firmly in mind the name of
QUIRK’S.
The Company supplies its own experts to instal all Plants, and Guarantees Efficiency. Esti-
mates and all Particulars may be obtained on application to
QUIRK’S LIGHTING & ENGINEERING LIMITED,
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for the Plaissetty Flexible Mantle, the most durable and cheapest of all.
NEW SEAM SANITARY GAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
ii T
.A
am
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objectionable Fluxes.
OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
by a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath - processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
The • machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
u AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are'not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Compete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Arris Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: G. CUELPA di L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
raffluSite
.
I li;.:':,':'
*
a
■
H
5
k!i
1
trttZ
§g
DOMINION
ACGORDEON
i
For the Dance, the
Picnic, and the Camp,
the “Ringer” Model
IS THE ONE
The brass trumpets of the “Ringer”
are a feature found in no other, and
they help to give it that wonderful tone
that has made it such a favorite
The “Ringer’ as illustrated 23/-
lt ~ with Steel Reeds 28/-
, f larger model 29/-
lf larger model Steel Reeds
in wood case with lock 4:5/-
Ask for our illustrated catalogue of Dom-
inion Accordeons, and name of nearest
agent.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Summer
Suits.
We are showing
a very tasteful
range of Suitings
for this Summer,
and in cases
where customers
cannot call in,
will post samples
on application.
vAk
&
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
Tailors and Costumers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite “Evening News.”)
UNCLAIMED MONEY&PROPERTY.
BOUftAL'S REBISTBR to N EXT-OF-KIJt,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, &c., &c., pHce
5/- ,480 pages, Robertson’s,booksellers,Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide; Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
QOUCAL&CO.,ISI. STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND.
; .(Kstnhlish prfover RO Ven.rs.)
Box 1281, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
mi t s * tu-


What
You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have somethin? to
say worth hearing do not take the "slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.” —William Ewart Gladstone.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
The Stage a Speciality.
of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the Colleg-e or by letter.
y 554 GEORGE STREET,
. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY EIGHT-HODR ART UNION, 1912
RESULT OF DRAWING.
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above Art
Union, and declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner, and with absolute fairness.
(Signed)
JOHN HEPHER, M.L.C. CHARLES THACKERAY, “Sun.”
DAVID YOUNG. Sen. Constable. VICTOR DOWNEY, “Sunday Times.”
J. NOONAN, “Worker.” L. W. BULLOT. “S. M. Herald.”
THE PRIZ 77 " 1 ! will bn naid over to jthe winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, at 10 a.m., at the Trades
Hall. (Joulburn Street, Sydney.,
Trades xvov. 2, 1912. JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
If
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
lafefre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Or<ran Stop,
15'fold Bellows with steel corners, Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
ALCOCKC & PIERCE’S
Auto. Pistol catalogue
Shows you 19 of the World’s Jsest AUTOMATIC
PISTOLS. These, the most modern of small arn>.
have by their simplicity and accuracy superseded
revolvers entirely.
You want a pistol—either as a weapon of defence or for sport,
t m
mmmm
The one shown is the BROWNING •355 cal. ; an ideal weapon for the man in
the back-blocks. Prick, £5/10/ - Civilian (.25 cal.) and Police (.32 cal.)
models, QQf- each Other, makes from 25/“
■ • , * i. ' t
GET THE LIST NOW-IT’S WORTH LOOKING INTO.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 L. Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
/
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for
Grey Hair, the beet and cheapest, 1/- and 2/6.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410).
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same, bottle).
Genuine obtainable:- —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
4
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
In
48 hours.
[m]
Each Canstrie bears the name sDS^"
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
STUPENDOUS SPECTACLE.
General Lew Wallace’s Great Religious Romance,
BEN HUB.
Dramatised by William Strong. Music by W. Stillman
Kelley.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
HER .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50,
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in
THE QUAKER GIRL.
FOR A BRIEF REVIVAL.
REMARKABLE NEW FEATURE DANCE
By FRED LESLIE and IVY SCHILLING.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessees: TALBOT LTD.
EVENINGS AT 8.
AN UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
Randolph Bedford’s Impressive Play,
THE UN SEEN EYE.
Interpreted by a Powerful Cast, including
The Great Emotional Actress,
MADGE McINTOSH.
PRICES: 4/- (Reserved), 2/6 & !/• Plans at Paling’s.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
: EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
MISS VIOLET BLACK, Supported by MR. CHARLES
ALEXANDER and London Company, in the Delightful
Comedy Drama, “ IN THE TUBE.”
ROY RENE, Australia's Hebrew Comedian.
O’DELL & HART, Patter Artists, Singers and Comedians
PHIL <fc PH LORA, Silent Comedy Artists.
BARTZ TRIO, Greatest Acrobats on tiie Continent.
JACK STRAW, England’s Bright & Versatile Comedian.
ADEL P II I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gisorge Marlow, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock, the
Fascinating and Thrilling American Mining Drama,
AT CRIPPLE CREEK.
Interpreted bv the Full Strength of
GEORGE MARLOW’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
FOR 8 MORE NIGHTS ONLY.
Prices : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/- Box Plan at Nicholson's.
•y H E LYCEUM. SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
(QLACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN'S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THE A T It E.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT &!-
NELLA WEBB, the Incomparable American Diseuse.
F. MoZZETTO, one of the World’s Finest Jugglers.
WELCH & OARBASSE, Burlesque Artists.
MARIE QUINTRELL, one of Australia’s Sopranos.
ALBERTO MARINI, Tenor.
JOHN McGOWEN, Baritone.
LOUIE ORAVVSHAW, Comedienne.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s & Theatre.
UI it K A II OUS E. MEI,IiOU It X E~
Persona.l Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
THE THREE SISTERS MACARTE, presenting their
Spectacular Scena, “ The Land of the Lotus.”
MISS FLORENCE BAINES, the Lancashire Comedienne.
BERT BILTON jti his “Songs at the Piano.”
THE MAX FRANKLIN TROUPE, Wonderful
European Acrobats.
THOMAS-BENTLEY, Dickensonian Sketch Artist.
TAYLOR & ARNOLD, Rau-tiine Comedians.
Plan at Allan % ' jpg- PRICES —35., 25., Is.
-|“ li EAT RE ROYAL, MELROURNJt.
EVERY .(EVENING, AT 8.
First Production of
GET-Rieil-QUICK WALLTNGFORD
Presented by a Brilliant Band of Comedians.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
’ Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
-T* 11E KING’S THEATRE, MELIiOURNK
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
Reappearance of
W. ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in
THE "SPAN OF LIFE
(By arrangement with Bland Holt).
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PHI NO ESS’S THEATRE, MELHOUKNK.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
it;
The Biggest and Best of all Drury Lane Melodramas,
THE SINS OE SOCIETY.
Prices 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
|_| Elt MAJESTY'S THEATRE. MELHOUKNK.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
FOR THE FIRST TIME HERE.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in
N Kill THIRDS.
Adapted' by Gladys Unger from Strauss’s
“ Die Fledermaus.”
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
MR. EDWARD BRAN SCOM B E’S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
D A N D I E S.
EVERY EVENING.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
•“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS. ADELAIDE.
PRINCESS COURT, ROCKHAMPTON, NIGHTLY.
Direction amalgamated pictures
ltd.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace,
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matlnfies Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock,
3d., Cd: and ]/-
EVENING PRICES : 2/-, 1/6,1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH BROS.’ GREATEST SHOW ON
EARTH.
NEW
WILD WEST,
emeus co.,
WILD AUSTRALIA
and
MENAGERIE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
in the
PLAZATORO, WIRTHS’ PARK.
Matinees—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
BOX PLAN AT GLEN’S.
Athenaeum hall, Melbourne.
Direction : J. & N. TAn.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
FAREWELL SEASON
MARGARET COOPER
and
HER COMPLETE COMPANY.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES : 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-
O]
Y M F I A. OLYMPIA.
Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT' AT 8.
\A/ IS S T'S PALACE. MELISOU It N E.
the best WEST’S PICTU U KS, T[JE BEST
of" ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MatinCes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vie.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS 1
on the Marvellous'" “Mack ' Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. Od. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre CafA
å
LIGHT
WITH
AIR-GAS!
More light, whiter
and better light—and
eneaper light besides —
if you install an At-
moslite Automatic Air-
Gas System.
Non-poisonous, odor-
-1 e s s, non-explosive,
non-condensing. Suit-
able for cooking and
heating too. Get the
facts; write for litera-
ture.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St.. Sydney.
Elizah''*'- "t.. Melbourne.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words andmanners
that win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will
supply the art. It considers the whole subject from
the time you meet until you two are one. Valuable
chapters about dress, personal appearance and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of
curious love letters & FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits
in prose and poetry that you can find daily use for.
2/6 posted will bring the book, and incidentally, hap-
piness with.the one you love ANGLO-AMERICAN
JPUB. CO., Waterloo Ch'mb’s, Geo-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
•aI»A IR'a
GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
l'he severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR'S Pills,,the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by aV Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
HAVE YOU A BAD LEG
with Wounds that discharge or otherwise,
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your Anger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison which
defles all the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the, skjn may be discolored, or there
may be wo.upds; the disease, if allowed to
continue, will .deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hos-
pitals, and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to,.submit: to amputation, but do
not, for I can'cure you. I do not say per-
haps, but I will. Because others have failed
is no reason I should. Send to the Drug
Stores for a box of
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS
which has never failed to cure the worst
cases of Bad Legs, Ulcerated Joints, Poisoned
Hands, Injured Knees, Bites, Carbuncles,
etc. Prepared by ALBERT, Albert House,
73 Farringdon Street, London, England.
THE Australian Magazine—THE EONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.


"GOLCRYST”
IS
USEFUL
By purifying the blood, GOECRYST
invigorates the whole system and keej>s
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GOBCBYST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Biciuorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Etee sample
sent by proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :—W. A., Neale, Con-
stable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,”
Adelaide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney ; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney. [2
å
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
LETTERS COPIED
tV,t
&
A
jflWUETTO*
ā
3U.3NVZ,
'NSC/«
WHILE WRITING (IN INK)
by using your own Letter Paper,
Invoices, etc., with this Copying-
book. You simply insert your
Letter paper (as illustrated) then
write: and the act of writing pro-
duces a perfect letter and a per-
fect copy in the book. There is
no sign of your having taken a
copy : no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./2UO copies either
200 letters size 10 by 8 in., or 400
size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 re-
spectively, price 5/r post free,
cash with order. : Specidl Dainty
Octavo Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double capacity
for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zanetic Ink Paper which
makes the copy, free, if stamped addressed envelope sent to
S.B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENCLAND.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER FROM
GOUT
m
Rheumatism
Professor Berscham's Gout and Rheumatic
Cachets inboxes of j do*. 2s. 6d., 2 doz., 4s.
Incomparable, Alleviating and Harmless.
A trial box will prove efficacy. Posted to any
address in the Commonwealth.
Box No. 931, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
n
• V
V
PUMP GUN
Solid Breech, hammer- gg
less. The only pump
aim made bottom ejecting.
The big advantage of this
important feature is appar-
ent to every sportsman.
There is no opening at top,
sides, or rear —ONLY AT
BOTTOM of solid breech.
No dirt, rain or other for-
eign substance can reach
the working parts. The
solid breech also protects
the shooter’s eyes and face
from all possibility of in-
jury that might result
from defective shells,
etc.
Without question, the
safest and most depend-
able pump gun ever used
in the field.
FOR SALE BY ALL
DEALERS.
Remington Arms —
Union Metallic
Cartridge Co.
[4
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1S49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
T C
Freehold and C.P. (Combined'). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
un to 20 ner cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R J. Black, M.D.C. ; The Hon. F. K. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox Eso. K.C. ' General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
M anufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
THE NEW
MODEL
No. 597
Amount
LhoG
THE NEW FEATURES OF THIS REGISTER.
Nine separate totals in pounds, shillings and
pence of different kinds of transactions and of the sales of different
assistants, in addition to grand total of all cash sales.
Amount of each cash sale made by each assistant is
automatically added into a separate total. Every time a sale is made
the amount is added to the total previously shown for that assistant.
Every penny received for cash sales is recorded twice by
this, register—on the adding wheels of the assistant making the sale
and on the ‘ ‘ secret ’ ’ or grand total adder. A printed record giving full
particulars is made at the lime time.
Amount in pounds, shillings and pence received in payment of
accounts is shown on another set of adding wheels. This obviates the
necessity of going through dockets or cash book to find how much money
has been received on account —the total is ready at all times.
Total value of all goods sold on credit is recorded separately, A
glance will show the amount of credit business for the day or to date
from any stated time. This record enables the shopkeeper to see at once
what his total turnover has been.
Every penny paid out is added to previous total amount of
disbursements.
Think of the advantages of having all these separate totals and of
being able to obtain such valuable information by merely turning a key
and glancing at the records.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE IMPROVEMENTS.
National Gash Register Go. of Australasia
335 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
343 Queen Street, Brisbane.
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
281 Murray Street, Perth.
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
'"pO SAY THE LEAST, when the food particles
* are brushed from the
teeth their opportunity for mischief ends. But
that opportunity becomes slight indeed when the
teeth receive a regular antiseptic cleansing with
Sold by
local Chemists
and Stores.
Jowder
Made by
F. C. Calvert 8c Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
1
2/6 Jars, obtainable everywhere
Nurses Recommend
Solomon
Solution
Experience has taught them its wonderful
efficacy in the treatment of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Sprains
Swellings, Wounds, Cuts, Boils, Burns, and
many other common ailments. Will YOU try it?
Post Free 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. Yoii use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h ea r i ng-
nerve co m-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. Ypu will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
re 3
cured, and you can be cured, too. You ...ay wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
(east danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR ifOVELTY GO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name ....................................
Address
NOTE.—Rend Money Order or Postal Note. If a
JBank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register.it.
M.B.FOSTERS
BUGLE
sc
Wm
BRAND
ft
BRIGHT
TO THE
LAST DROP.
HIM RODS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefitshe
received from HIMROD S ASTHMA
POWDER, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever,
Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists ctnd Stores
throughout A ustralusia.
ASTHMA POWDER
1
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant”
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68| PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.


ECZEMA ALL OVER
HER BABY’S BODY
Pimples Turned into Sores. Could
Not Get Any Sleep. Would Wake
Up Crying and Scratch Until He
Bled, 2 Pots of CuticuraOintment
with Cuticura Soap Cured Him.
“My little boy who is only eighteen months
old suffered something dreadfully for eight
months from eczema
which was all over
his body. I had two
doctors but they failed
to cure him. It first
came as little pimples
and he was covered
from neck to feet with
them and when he
went to sleep it would
come out thicker than
ever. Then the pimples
turned into sores and he could not get any
sleep at all for as soon as he went to sleep
he got hot and itchy and would then wake
up crying and scratch them until he made
them bleed. I was ordered to bathe him in
warm water with a cupful of bran, I also
used , zinc ointment, lotions, and
rubbed him with sulphur, lard, and
boracic acid and many other things, but all
did no good.
“One day I read the Cuticura advertise-
ment and thought I would give it a trial
and am very thankful to be able to say that
Cuticura Ointment cured him. I bathed him
with Cuticura Soap and put the Ointment
on all the spots and after using it twice he
got much relief and slept for hours, and
after using two pots of Cuticura Ointment he
was quite cured, which took about two months
■-;nd he has not had any signs of it since.”
(Signed) Mrs. W. J. Langham, Anson St.,
Orange, N. S. W., Feb. 20, 1911
Although Cuticura Soap and Ointment are
sold throughout the world, a liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-page booklet
on affections of the skin and scalp, will be
sent, post-free, on application to K, Towns
& Co , Dept , 17K, Sydney, N. S. W.
-eb-
-7f/\
fi
\U 1.-
* -
An Interesting:
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to.have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
ă
—harsh—unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache,
Carters
ITTLE•
IVER
PILLS.
and Indigestion, as millions know.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIQ STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Growlng Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time- —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for mv benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. _ I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world —I am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
THE
GIFT
TO
GIVE
SWAM
AF&TY
Choose a “Swan” Fount Pen for all your friends this Xmas. Choose a
“Swan” because of its usefulness, its perfect working and its long life.
Unlike most gifts, a “Swan” will be as good in years to come as it is when
new, and will always be an ever-present reminder of the giver.
Prices are the
usual Gift
prices.
Sold by All Stationers and Jewellers.
CATALOGUES SENT FREE.
MABIE, TODD CO., Manufacturers, London.
Australasian Branch (Wholesale only), J. A. BURKE,
15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ą
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/1 i, 2/9 & 4/6.
timrcdf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
The cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Made in England.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Bgo
m
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
ǻ
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
BENGER’S POOD Ltd, Otter Works, MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND. y
Finger's Food is sold in Tins by Druggists, etc,, everywhere . j
ood
The Inky Way.
The dull echoes of the Balkan eruption remind us
that modem war news is mostly froth, and that the
modern city dweller is little better off than the old-
time villager, who drowsed along in ignorance of
what was happening, until a man in dinted armor
rode down the main lane on a sorrowful horse, with
enough soldiers’ tales and loot to keep him three
months at the ale house. By virtue of electricity,
the modern war liar is no mere peddler of lies, but
a wholesaler, who claims splendid victories for his
own side, and represents the enemy as being in full
flight and strewing the landscape with abandoned
guns and camp stores. It reads very well until both
liars’ stories are printed together, and the two op-
posing armies are represented as advancing vic-
toriously to the rear, and snowing their utter con-
tempt for the accused foe by allowing him to swing
them in the air by the slack of their pants. That is when
the reader, hurrying into work, gets mad and throws
his paper out of the tram, and is fined for littering
the streets with rubbish. The most informative item
of a recent week was that a flock of 80 war corres-
pondents was yarded up at a place some 40 miles or
so from the actual front, and forbidden, under pain
of court-martial, to tell anything resembling the
truth. If the majority of the cables were correct,
and the Turks were being driven back, the firing-line
was getting further away from those correspondents
every hour. On the other hand, if the Constanti-
nople reports were right, those 80 suppressed writers
were liable to find battle and sudden death all round
them at any minute. On the face of it, war corres-
ponding appears to be one of the easiest and safest of
professions. You are not allowed to do your work,
or to crawl into danger, and your only chance of
escaping death from senile decay is to perish of
mumps. Many a tousled female with a riotous, pot-
throwing, hair-dragging husband would leap at a
war correspondent’s job.
* * * *
“Looking Backward”: Largely I agree with “Lines-
man” (B. 27/9/’l2) as to the Melbourne Herald’s
fall from gracefulness in its headlines. But he has
omitted some of the fall, and has not noticed some
of the beauties which the paper retains. The omis-
sions include “La Belle France,” which invariably
headed tales of riot in Paris during the Reay regime.
This showed a gift of subtle sarcasm, an intimate
acquaintance with the French tongue and a love of
the romantic. Again, no smelling-out of Jews ever
occurred in Russia but it produced the heading,
“Holy Russia,” another specimen of the delightful
and playful satire which lurked beneath the iron ex-
terior of the warlike Colonel. At times this many-
sided journalist lent himself to the fleshly school —
“Woes of the Flesh” topped the medical column,
and it remains there to this day. Another legacy in-
herited by Editor Davidson is “The Law of the Land,”
which still heads the advice about boundary-fence
problems, the trespassing fowl evil, and as to whether
a man may marry “another woman,” if he puts an
advt. in the paper saying that he is going to do n
unless Sarah turns up within seven days. _ Color-
Colonel Reay still operates from the fog city. He
has become hopelessly fleshly. “At the Heart of Em-
pire” is his usual heading, varied by “At the Pulse
of Empire.” It may be that the neck, the knees, the
feet and the forehead of Empire will have their
little day, and perhaps even its calves will be allowed
to make an appearance. Of this the Australian pub-
lic may be assured —that whatever is delineated by
the gallant Colonel will always be clothed in a
complete Canadian bathing costume with the skirt of
ample length.
* * * *
Thanks to “wireless,” ocean journalism is advanc-
ing by leaps and bounds. The Cunard Bulletin is a
really first-class, up-to-date daily morning paper,
edited, printed and published on the big liners of
the Cunard Company that are perpetually racing
across the Atlantic. The copy sent to this scribe by
a passenger contains 16 pages. There are photo-
graphs and other illustrations, wireless news from
London and New York, latest stock and share quota-
tions and a leading article, a magazine page, a
serial story, dramatic notes and “prelusive specials”
by eminent English and American writers. There is
a staff of newsboys on each liner, and the paper is
delivered practically every morning at each subscrib-
ing cabin-door.
A pressman writes in a spirit of enthusiastic envy
of an alleged soft job: Hansard reporters here in
Westralia have particularly rosy times. They re-
ceive £375 per annum, and Parliament seldom sits
more than five months in the year. That means they
have about half of their time free from the cares
and frequent drinks that beset newspaper reporters.
They fill in their time by writing for the West
Australian and other papers, and doing literary
work for the Immigration, Lands and other Govern-
ment Departments, to the exclusion of journalists
who can hardly find a casual tram fare. A pair of
Hansard men recently divided £l5O between them
for hashing up a lot of stale information and ancient
statistics for the State Agent-General’s London office,
and others draw quite a decent living wage over and
above their official salaries by writing football, ten-
nis, yachting and other notes. Many newspaper men,
with the inevitable wife and inseparable kiddies, are
questioning the sincerity of the Government when it
comes to the principle of “one man, one job.”
* * * *
“Chudah”: The American Israelite translates
from the Welt, a German paper, a sketch of Yid
journalism in Whitechapel, London, which has multi-
tudes of Jewish tailors, shoemakers, carpenters,
cigarette-makers, pedlars, and all sorts. Even the
policemen speak Yiddish in Whitechapel. The Welt
writer called at a newspaper office. Found the edi-
tor’s wife holding her baby, and setting type. She
calls out to husband Abraham: “Now den, Emanuel,
look sharb mid dot leading artigel.” “Ollaride, ma
tear, ollaride,” says Abraham.
The Hibernian bull is still cultivated. A
recent issue of the Irish Cyclist contained
this delightful mix-up: “It is practically
impossible for an individual rider not in the
swim to score off his own bat.” The bull is
an interesting form of humor in the hands
of those who know how to use it, and it
doesn’t force its owner to rise at absurdly
early hours as the cow does.
JANE—JEANNETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Jane came up to Sydney town she wore an
antiquated gown,
With many folds about her feet. In length it but
escaped the street.
Her shoes were broad with heels quite flat. On her
short hair was perched a hat
With faded roses ’round the brim. Her gloves were
made of cotton scrim.
Jane could write prose or verse, she said, on every-
thing alive or dead,
But men glanced at her dress array, and said: “The
staff is full to-day.”
So Jane bought her a dress quite right—at thigh, and
knee and ankle tight;
Adorned her head with much false hair, above which
drooped a hat with rare
Hen plumes that wore a dye of gold to match the
hair. And I was told
Her lips she touched with carmine paint, her brow
with Chinese ink. As saint
Jane had been scratched, but as a sinner she looked
a very likely winner.
She’d gloves of kid and silken hose, and, like one
who her value knows,
She wrote herself “Jeannette”—not “Jane” —and
sought the Fourth Estate again.
Jeannette became at once the rage, and edits now a
“Woman’s Page.”
N.S.W.
J. S. GRIFFITHS.


An Inspiration.
44
Virginia
CIGARETTES
When you pass round Cigarettes to
your friends be sure they are “Winfred’*
—the cigarettes of quality that will
proclaim your social standing. In every
&
□
in
detail of material
and manufacture
they are the most
carefully made cig-
arettes in the world.
lO 20
6d. 1/-
\YIhJFRfiB”
Cigarettes are obtainable of all Leading
Tobacconists, Clubs, Hotels, Stores, etc.,
throughout Australia .
Sole Manufacturers of
Winfred Cigarettes :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD.
Britain’s Greatest High-
Class Cigarette Factory,
LONDON, Eng.
RUMORS OF WAR
ML
Disturbing cablegrams are being re-
ceived daily, indicating troubles that
may be expected in the near future,
and in order that our Clients may not
be disappointed, we are importing large
stocks of —
Marshall’s
World-Famed Steam Engines
Winners of over 500 Gold and Silver Medals and Diplomas.
You have only to inspect the “Marshall” Engines to be satisfied they are undoubtedly
tliG best.”
Light and Heavy pattern Steam Tractors, Oil Tractors for dry districts, Marshall
Portables, latest improved, all sizes. Vertical and Colonial type Boilers, 2to 12 H.l.
Horizontal and Vertical Stationary Engines. Engineers’ Requirements. Belting,
Oils, etc.
Write for Catalogues. Cash or Easy Terms.
ARE YOU A BELIEVER
in up-to-date motive power? If so, we commend to your favorable consideration
ui
THE “BIG CHIEF’’
OIL ENCINE
which has been carefully designed to onr
own specification, and is complete in every
detail. Included in the equipment is the
“Wizard” Magneto, and regular Pulley and
Tools. The Crankshaft is extended to take
a pulley either side. No Tank troubles need
be feared.
All sizes from 2to 12 H.P. Either kero-
sene or benzine may be used as fuel. Send
for descriptive Catalogue. See the “Big
Chief” before buying any other make.
Cash or Easy Terms.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
G>>.
>>
Ik
“The Top Notch of Scotch ”
An ideal beverage, soft
delicate, and of exquisite
flavour;
K
Scotch
Whisky"
Connoisseurs proclaim it
mellow, exhilarating and beneficial*
The J)ISTILLERS Limited, Edinburgh.
Largest Scotch Whisky
Distillers in the World.
Capital Employed,
over £3.000,000.
SYDNEY s
Angel Place. MELBOURNE: 52, William Street.


The BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
smoke:
SUNOL
a
cs
«l-
The
Perfect
Pipe
Tobacco.
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug or Cut.
per lb.
Post
Free.
@2O
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others in QUALITY, FINISH,
DESIGN and WORKMANSHIP.
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Out Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADINC SHAPES
Price
each
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigafdtte.
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
Jhree Witches
yi
VIRGINIA
[IGARETTES
A
r D./MORRIS
&SonsL t p
LONDON e
p
E
R
f
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence-,
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
Price
per 100,
Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Br&rtches—City, Suburbs
and Newcastle
mj!§
WSm
■ I
tip
m
«s
mm
22/6
Try. Sample Lot
bf $ Cigars,
patked In Cedar
GOLDEN KEY”
Cigars de Luxe
(made In England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Cdnnoisseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths—
MILD ana MEDIUM.
Packed iiv HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION Ca&inETs,
containing SO Cigars,
post
FREE;
216
v n
Box —— Post Free.
Save “GOLDEN KEY
Bands for Prizes.
FARMERS AND ISETTLERIS. ARE YOU READY?
The Season is c/ose at hand for a
RICH HARVEST! Get your harness
ready NOW to avoid LOSS by
DELAY in CARTING!
DEAL DIRECT WITH THE MAKERS
—and write TO-DAY for our new
Illustrated Book—
“ Everything for the Horse.”
Post Free from—
Edward Butler U Sons Limited
257 George Street, Sydney.
Also at
BRISBANE and WARWICK, QUEENSLAND.
Y.*t
m
JUST WHAT Y 0» WANT.
BREECHINGS.
Black dr Brown.
no. i . . *
HanclScWri, 35!-
Noi & 27 fe
Handsewn, 32 6
(For heavy farm work.)
No-. 3—Special Value
for light carting .. 20-
SADDLES.
Black or Brown.
No. 4— A Quality . 32/6
B Quality .. 351-
Nos. 5 f A Quality 27 6
and 6 ) B Quality 301-
No. 7—A Quality .. 20/-
B Quality .. 22/6
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
|*~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place,
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
eks?
Elects
12332
Be*t “BULLS-EYE” ELECTRIC POCKET LAMP
with latest improved cell. PRICE 5/-, post free anywhere. Press the
button and a brilliant light is immediately obtained. Fils hand and pocket
Extra cells. 1/9; post free. Send postal note (mentioning this paper) to:
STAR NOVELTY C0.,229 Collins St., Melbourne
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en-
graving’s, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola's,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List,). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. ADVENTURES OF A FLIRT, IS 3d. PARLOR TRICKS AND
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin senes.’ The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
&
m
II
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Paxes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answ’ered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
pr BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.**!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is’Sd. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s fid.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is., posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), is Gd.
lnstructor : Every Man His O.wn Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s (id each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. Tiie Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t toe fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. iO~ Established 25 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
»
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide, to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Bd. posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
oound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Marg'aret Dale-Owen
EXTOLS
REXONA
Margaret Dale-Owen, who is now giving a magnificent character-study of Bessie Meets
in “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford,” which has already put up the Australian record-run for
any American comedy, began her professional career with Ben Greet. With him she toured
England, playing Audrey in “As You Like It,” Maria in “Twelfth Night,” Nerissain “The
Merchant of Venice,” and other Shakespearian rdles. She then went through the United
States with that famous Shakespearian actress,
Ada Rehan, in a Shakespearian repertoire.
After this, she played the principal comedy-
part (Lady St. Azuline) in the long run of “ The
Price of Peace,” at McVicker’s Theatre,
Chicago. For the last nine years Miss Dale-
Owen has been leading lady with her husband,
the distinguished comedian, Harry Corson
Clarke, perhaps the greatest living artiste in
stage make-up. With him she has appeared
in his gigantic success, “ What Happened to
Jones” ; and in his many other triumphs, such as
“Mr. Foster of Chicago,” “What Did Tom-
kins Do,” “Young Mrs. Winthrop,” etc. Miss
Dale-Owen testifies to the efficacy of a well-
known remedy, as follows :
Criterion Theatre.
Rexona Proprietary Co., Sydney,
Sydney. Aug. 18, 1912.
Dear Sirs, — During the voyage to Aus-
tralia, I ran out of the famous American
salve that I had been in the habit of using
for sunburn, chapped hands, or any chance
abrasion. Hearing your Rexona so exten-
sively praised, I purchased some. It made
such a hit with me that there will never be
a chance of any other salve displacing it in
my dressing case. I find that Rexona is a
perfect balm. Your sincerely,
MARGARET DALE-OWEN.
MARGARET DALE-OWEN (from a photograph)
EVERYONE NEEDS REXONA.
REXONA is a Reliable Remedy for Pimples, Sores, Chilblains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Cuts, Burns,
Bruises, Scalds, Stings of Insects, and all kinds of Inflammation. REXONA is sold only in triangular
pots, at Is. 6d., and in larger pots, containing nearly four times the quality at 3s.
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
GUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S MEDICATED OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour lh
distinguishes Flint's Oil from every other preparation Price 3s., Jrom most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing: Chemist, ADELAIDE.
rriHE Best Stories written by Australian
I Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
HOLLOWAYS
Pills (El Ointment
——Bp— P
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning®/-Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY’S OINT-
MENT, which possesses' remarkable healing
virtues in cases; of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy«
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
A Suburban Adventure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I THINK that star’s remarks were most
absurd.
She said that Helen was a nicer girl,
With white skin glowing like a Phrygian
curd,
Except in spots where it was like a pearl;
I would not even take the old moon’s word
If she should try my temper with a tale
Of Ariadne’s beauty cold and stale.
Girls are the ripe fruit of the wonder tree,
Whose blossoms are a song, whose leaves
a sigh ;
And no girl ever yet was ripe for me
Except the one maid with the happy eye,
And the dark hair all wavy as tficAea,
Who sat beside me on the darkened stair
And thought my hottest kisses good to
wear.
She wore them just as ancient Helen did
The joy that Paris pressed upon her lips,
The while with Trojan elegance he hid
His classic nose in rapturous eclipse
Within her tresses, and his lithe arm slid
Around the yielding sweetness of her
waist.
Showing his exquisite and princely taste.
I care not in the least what stars may say,
In spite of all they may have known and
seen.
Nancy, with half her dark, bright hair
astray,
Is better far than any ancient queen
Of whom some blind old minstrel made his
lay. .
Besides, the person Paris loved is dead.
And Nancy’s lips are soft and warm and
red.
As I remarked, we sat upon the stairs.
While others rioted in frosted beer;
I think we went apart to say our prayers,
Or else to drop unseen a quiet tear;
t know we felt the little rosy airs
Blowing from elfland, and our joy was
such,
My last, least whisker trembled to her
touch.
“Sweetheart,” I said, “the happy time is
ripe.
Somewhere with crimson claws the cray-
fish dreams,
In lighted halls the waiters deftly wipe
The little glasses emptied of ice creams,
To evening revel Pan’s clear reedlets pipe,
And we could slip out by the postern door
To eat the oyster in his frosted gore.
We went on tiptoe down the darkened way,
With lifted feet we crossed the sleeping
cat.
The house-dog wagged his tail with naught
to say, . . ,
We passed the milk-jug silent on the piat.
The shadows in the yard were cold and grey.
But deftly through the lane we passed and
found
That night was starry, and the white moon
round.
Away! Some silver in my pocket rang.
Enoueh to speed the gladness of our quest.
The quick blood leaping in our pulses sang
The little lilt bur warm hearts loved the
best, , J ,
And Nancy on my left arm seemed to hang
Kike some delicious and full-flavored peach
Poised on a branch within joy’s easy
reach.
Tremendous consequences often flow
From young and insignificant events.
Oaks, it has been observed, from acorns
grow,
And simple dirt produces mighty rents.
1 scarcely tiling, if vou had told us so,
- We should have readily accented then
The tale of what occurred that night at
ten.
We had some little oysters on a plate.
Some prawns and other simple, quiet tacts.
And all on tip-toe. ere the night was late,
We came as Caesar’s ghost, when it enacts
Its creepv part, back to the rearward gate.
We passed the dog, the milk-jug and the
Nor brushed the sleeping whiskers of the
cat.
The house was silent as a butter shop
Upon the pleasant Sunday afternoon,
So silent and so dark no single drop
Could trickle downwards from the melting
moon.
We could not tell the proper nlace to ston, _
But felt like Wowsers groping irt their
prayers — „
Had some bad burglar carried oft the
stairs?
We could not find them. Neither high nor
low
Was any hint pf step or balustrade.
A dreadful feeling seemed to swell and grow
Around us till it made our souls afraid;
And all at once oiir senses quaked to know
We were not where we had been hereto-
~For 'Nancy and myself were both next
door.
We went with speed and silence as we came.
But somehow we aroused the sleeping cat.
Its whiskers bristled, and no longer tame,
Its angrv tail grew larger than the mat. •
I really think the <jog was most to blame,
The' fretful beak aroused the sleeping
night— .
I left him half my trousers m my flight.
The street awoke. The night grew loud with
sound.
My Nancy, screaming, fled with wintered
hair.
I crossed the back-yard fence at one fierce
bound
And landed on a ten-legged garden chair.
Whereat a most ijnkindlv star observed
That I had only got what I deserved.
But stars’ remarks are often most absurd.
An ankle sprained and half my trousers
lost. . , , ,
A meaner soul than mine perchance had
spurred
To sit upon the ground and count the cost.
[ took that twinkler at his word.
Placed in the credit column one dark curl,
And with one kiss of solace took the girl.
Girls are the ripe fruit of the wonder tree.
Whose blossoms are a song, whose leaves
a sigh;
And one girl made a strong appeal to me
A certain damsel with a happy eye,
And much dark hair all wavy as- the sea
Who went beside me down the darkened
Some oysters and a dog’s large mouth to
share.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
Characters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN a Man comes' to be called a
Character, his fate is sealed—if he
is making his living in any line of
business outside of the Comic Drama. Gnlj
rich men can afford to be Characters, and
by the time they have become rich they have
seldom any character left worth speaking ot.
To be a Character means to be different from
Other People, and Other People resent the
difference. Sometimes it amuses them, but
the amusement is always mingled with a
certain amount of contempt. “W hy can t lie
be like Us?” they say. To be like Us is
their criterion of good taste and standard or
sanity. x *
All the Characters I have known have been
poor men. If they were not poor originally,
they became poor soon after leaving the lut
of right-thinking Respectability. It was not
believed that they could have peculiar fancies
of their own on certain subjects and still
continue to have solid business capacity. I
knew a man who lost his billet in a bank in
this way. He was an accountant, and
highly respected until, one day, it was dis-
covered that he held by the old creed that
the earth is flat. After that, he was looked
upon with suspicion. The manager and the
directors seemed to consider that a man
who entertained such views could not be
safely trusted with accounts. He might in-
troduce the flatness of the earth into the
balance-sheet. So upon some pretext or other
he was invited to retire. He did, and died
shortly afterwards. He was a man who was
intended to be, and had been for years, a
respectable citizen, and nothing more. But
he became a Character, and all was over.
He should have gone into the Bush. The
Bush is the proper place for Characters. It
breeds them. In my comparatively short
experience of it, I met scores of them. I
remember, for instance, that when I was
editing a N.S.W. country paper, to which
was attached a small circulating library, a
chirpy old lady came into the shop, one day
to change her book. We entered into con-
versation. She was illuminative.
“J know how these novels are written,”
she remarked confidentially.
‘‘How, madam?”
“The writers take an old novel and tear
out the pages. Then they mix the pages to-
gether —shuffle them like this” — she took
up some loose sheets of copy-paper and
shuffled them in the manner of a gambler
stacking cards —“and then you have a new
book !”
The criticism was so curious and yet so
ironically apt that I have never forgotten |
it. But the old lady believed that she had
made a new discovery. She w r as a Charac-
ter.
There was also an old man who lived
in the Ranges. He borrowed from the
library “The Story of Mary, Queen of Scots.”
He had never heard of that hapless lady I
before. He was a slow but earnest reader.
When he came int ' the township now and
then he used to call on me and talk Mary
Stuart till I would have to take him over
to tlie hotel and turn him on to somebody
else. But one day he came into the office
with tears and fury in his eyes. “They’ve
beheaded her I” he said. “The blanky
hounds have murdered her! And that”
But what he said of Elizabeth no uninsured
paper would dare to print. He said it in
the township, all the same, and broke the
windows, and half-wrecked the bar of the
Royal Hotel —kept by a Presbyterian called
Anderson, who observed that Mary had got
no more than she deserved. He spent that
night in the lock-up.
It is a most strange, yet true, thing that
Mary, although she has been more than
three centuries dead, has her lovers even
to this day. I don’t think the same state-
ment can be made in connection with any
other heroine in history.
There are plenty of Characters in the
city, but they are, as a rule, lost in the
crowd. One only comes across them by
chance. For instance, there was an old
lady and her son —the son appeared to
be about 30 years old, and always, winter
arid summer, wore a woollen comforter
around his neck —who used to call in at the
Age and Argus office every night at about
10 o’clock and spend two hours going through
the advertisement columns of both papers.
They did this for years. Nobody knew
whence they came, whither they went, or
what they were looking for. When they had
finished their search, they would pass out
into the night without speaking to any-
body. There was another strange character
whom I used to see occasionally in Mel-
bourne. A man of apparently 45 or 50
years of age. Tall, gaunt and with a most
blood-curdling eye. Wherever a crowd was
gathered that sinister apparition would be
seen hovering on its outskirts and looking
at every face with a searching glare. One
evening I was standing close by him. An
Age man was with me. “May I ask, sir,”
said the latter, “if you are looking for any-
body ?”
The tall, gaunt man stared at him for a
moment with liis blood-curdling eye and
stalked silently away. It was generally
believed that he was seeking for an enemy.
I would not care to be that enemy.
Some two years ago there was a man
living in a little ragged tent of his own on
the shores of North Harbor, Sydney. He
made a pathetic living by selling firewood-
dry branches of trees gathered in the Gov-
ernment Reserve —to the people of Manly.
He used to convey the wood on a weird boat,
made by himself out of driftwood and pieces
of old canvas, painfully tarred so as to be
water-tight. In any ordinary boat you can
row over to Manly Pier from the place
where he had his tent in 20 minutes. The
voyage used to take him two hours to accom-
plish. I had a talk with him one day. He
was a Scotchman. He had never done any-
CContinued on next paye.J


£
(S
-S
*l*
Au*
vs
u
Gives You
A SURGERY IN
YOUR HOME.
''-p'HE lacerated cut or tlie nasty ulcer which once you would \
i have had to see your doctor about can now, thanks to the
invention of Zam-Buk, be treated safely and successfully in
your own home. It was the discovery of the famous antiseptic pio-
cess, and its introduction into the home by Zam-Buk, that opened
up new possibilities in self-treatment.
The old-fashioned ointments are hindered in their work by the
rancid animal fats and mineral poisons they contain. No attempt is
made to draw out of the tissues the germ life and poison which are
the real cause of itching and inflammation.
It was in trying to get over these stumbling-blocks that the
wonderful discovery of Zam-Buk occurred. Careful research was
being conducted in the medicinal properties of certain herbs, and it
was found that one of them exerted an extraordinary destructive
effect on the microbes infesting a wound.
A certain combination of healing extracts was eventually found
which not only destroys the harmful germ-life, but effectively draws
out all bad matter and corruption, and having thus purified the
tissues, ensures a clean and rapid healing.
Thus at length the great antiseptic healer, Zam-Buk, was given to
the public, and was instantly acclaimed for simplifying the treatment
and hastening the cure of even obstinate attacks of eczema, ulcers,
piles, ringworm, and festering wounds.
Totally different in character from common ointments, Zam-Buk
is also immeasurably superior to them in having a threefold action
on the skin. First, it allays pain and irritation. Secondly, it kills
harmful germs, and thus removes all danger of- a cut or sore taking
“bad ways.”
Lastly, when the bad place has been thus purified, it grows a new
layer of perfectly healthy skin.
The treatment is so simple and yet so effective that to have a
ipot of Zam-Buk handy converts your home into an efficient, ever-
ready hospital.
hm-B
RUB It IK ,
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended, ‘it is invaluable for both children and adults.
GOT A COLD!
'/
r.
m
U
'■*/
■Jtr
%
%
I'b
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy is the most
prompt and effectual medicine in use for this
Complaint. It acts on nature's plan, loosens
the cough , relieves the lungs , opens the
secretions and aids nature to restore the system
to a healthy condition.
thing wrong, but simply recognised that he
was a Failure. There was, however, enough
of the Scottish grit in him to prevent
him loafing around the town for chanty.
One evening—there was a rough sea on tnat
day—his coracle was found floating about
in fragments. The body of the man himselt
was washed up on the beach next day. l
was more sorry than I can tell over t" l ®
poor little tragedy. It was so pathetic, and
so lonesome, and so apparently unmeaning.
Going on the boat from Manly to Sydney
the other day I fell into conversation with
a little grey-bearded man who had a pole
with bunches of bush flowers attached to it.
resting on his knees. ~,, ,
"I’ve been two days gathering these, lie
said, “and I sat up all last night making
them into proper bunches for the maiket.
I saw that there were two dozen bunches
on the pole. „ , ... ~
“I get fourpence each for these—it they
are sold,” he said. “The last lot 1 took m
brought me only Is. Bd.”
He explained that half the proceeds went
to the middleman.
He informed me that he was living in a
cave, and has been living there and gather-
ing flowers for 14 years. Yet the man is a
licensed apothecary, and speaks well.
“But how about, your bed when the cold
nights come?”
"I have a stretcher and some old bags to
cover me. I had some blankets last winter,
but the larrikins stole them.”
Gathering flowers is the most poetical ot
occupations-—when you haven’t to gather
them for a living.
CREEVE ROE.
The Magazine and the
Novelette.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
English and American magazines
I nowadays are sliding along the old
track upon which ran the novelettes
that were the literary dissipation of oui
grandmothers. The magazine certainly goes
faster and runs easier than did the novelette
—just as the tram is an improvement on
the ’bus —but, for all that, it is only trav-
elling the old road —and the old road is a
darned dull and unnatural thoroughfare.
Here are a few bones dragged at
random from the rattling skeleton ot
a yarn in an alleged first-class mod-
ern magazine.
The central figure of the story is an
Italian count, whom we will call Hon
Pedro. (He isn’t called Don Pedro in
the story, but, when our grandmothers
knew him, he was always Don bomething-
or-other.) Don Pedro is a Blade of the cul-
tured variety. The authoress . (whose front
name is Elizabeth, and who is probably a
respectable young woman with gold-rimmed
pince-nez) tells us in her very first para-
graph: “....his intimates had called him
Satanuccio ever since a wild escapade of his
at the age of 18. This adventure, which con-
sisted in his eloping with the three-weeks
bride of the Doge of Venice, fell later into
the category of pardonable failings. lliat
incident lights up Pedro’s reputation pretty
well, but a little later on the authoress tells
us this about him : “But even the spending
of a mysterious revenue with princely gener-
osity, even laying waste the lives of many
fair and noble ladies —came at last to pall
on the Italian.” Having arrived at this
depressing stage, his thoughts turn wearily
towards matrimony: “He had always in-
tended to marry some nay. The day had
arrived. .. .but the wife? Clearly she must
not be of the type he knew too well already.
The laborious vivacity of the average smart
woman was beginning to be to him a mortal
weariness—another significant symptom. In
any case, to marry one of them. . . .he shud-
dered. It would be like marrying a brass
band.” , , . , ,
While he is in this frame of mind, he
drives a party of friends about the coun-
try in “a flashing equipage.” A word-pic-
ture of the “equipage” : “The luxurious in-
side was a miracle of ingenious devices for
supplying all the comforts of home. It rom
without all the world might see the admir-
able proportions an 4 perfect finish of this
dark-green miracle of elegance, with its
touches of bright scarlet, its four grey horses
with scarlet trappings, its livered servants
and jaunty groom, with the long coach-
horn shining like new gold and sending
troops of triumphal echoes flying over the
mountains.” Herein we see why Don Pedro
objected to a brass band wife. The “flash-
ing equipage” must have looked and sounded
very like the band waggon of a travelling
circus as it was. However, dreadfully, bored
as he is, he is still an enthusiastic ruin—or
ruiner—for, in the hall of a mountain hotel,
he catches sight of two women. Thus the
authoress, in her weird professional jargon :
“The cloaks and veils removed in the hall
revealed two people guiltless of. travel
stains, the handsome mother of a still more
beautiful girl. Girl? ‘She might be 2(>,
mused Don Pedro, ‘but, by all the gods,
what a face !’ ” Don Pedro, rudely enough,
“contracts his black brows” at these people,
and, after a second’s hesitation, goes for-
ward and asks them “if they remember him
after all this time?” Whereupon “The
Woman” started slightly, then seemed from
her deliberate look of well-bred coldness
about to deny the acquaintance —reconsid-
ered and bowed without noticing his offered
hand.” The reader immediately infers from
this that the matron is one of the “fpir and
noble ladies” whom Don Pedro “laid waste”
in the long ago. The fact that she signs to
her daughter with a “straight keen look” to
go and look out the window while she repels
Don Pedro, strengthens this suspicion, and the
following unpleasant passage-at-arms in the
next column confirms it. “She flashed a look
at him over his shoulder, and, quite low. she
said : “But I know yours, Satanuccio. Good-
bye.” The look, like most of her looks, is
effective, for “He turned a dull red as if she
had struck him across the face, and went
down the long dining-room with anger-lit
eyes.” However, his aristocratic self-re-
straint and alleged noble breeding doesn’t
prevent him from telling a lie to his guests
in order to make them alter their plans, and
they forthwith all proceed to another resort
to which the two ladies are bound. Arrived
there, he bullies the head waiter about where
he is going to sit until he catches sight of
the two women he is after. Thereafter he
goes the place, “with all his being con
centrated in his gleaming eyes.”
The story now being in full swing and the
plot well developed, the experienced reader
may proceed at a hand gallop. At dinner:
“The girl was dressed in white and wore no
ornament but a long chain wrought to look
like a long, golden rope, from which hung a
somewhat insignificant ‘St. George and the
Dragon’ in enamel.” She is just out of a
convent, and has a glassy look in her eye—
as witness the gifted authoress: “Calmly as
any saint looks out of a chapel window, she
gazed across the valley toward the higli-
perehed hamlet of Fettan.” However, this
ox-like placidity appeals to the jaded and
ruinous Don Pedro. "Don Pedro observed
with pleasure that although everyone in that
particular corner of world was staring
and speculating, the girl’s own eyes left the
table before her only to rest with serenity
unparalleled on the far-off white tower of
the Convent of Fettan.” It is remarked on
all sides that the mother and daughter have
not spoken to each other during the meal—
which may be due either to natural stupid-
ity, hunger or embarrassment at being stared
out of countenance. The authoress selects
a duke to voice the feelings of the company :
“ ‘They have not spoken to each other all
through dinner,’ whispered the Due de Bou-
tray, as the two ladies rose.” Then, “with-
out looking to right or left, they made their
way indoors,” and —in the approved fashion
of select novelette heroines —“are not seen
again that evening.” Follows a new chap-
ter, in which they comport themselves in a
frantically dull fashion, “drinking the
waters” by having the fluid brought to them
by menials and fending off people who, for
some inscrutable reason, desire their ac-
quaintance. Don Pedro occupies his time
showing off with juvenile simplicity. By
way of exhibiting his abilities as a whip, he
drives about recklessly, tooting his absurd
horn, and “brings his four superb horses up
with a magnificent sweep and flourish, stop-
ping them suddenly on their very haunches,
at the door of the great entrance.” The girl
“gazes at the brilliant apparition with large-
eyed wonder.” Probably she thought he was
the local fire brigade. After further hauling
of his steeds back on their haunches, Pedro
forces his company on the defenceless women,
and the speechless maiden once goes so far
as to say “Good-night” to him. “No caress,”
he told himself, “had ever been half so blind-
ing sweet.” Which sounds curiously like
what a pushite from the Rocks might remark
of a tart. Two pages further on he is found
writing “an adroit epistle full of respectful
courtesy, admiration even,” in which he asks
if the lady mother will “consider his becom-
ing a suitor for the hand of her daughter.”
Follow four unessential columns filled mostly
with remarks of this description: “For the
love of Pleaven, tell me what you mean to
do!” “Then you have sent for me only
to” “I should have thought even you,
Satanuccio, would need to be told that
rather than give a child of mine to you, I
would kill her with my own hands.” "Then
why,” he said, white with fury, “why did
you not say as much last night?” Next
column —so we read —“As he dashed from
the Dorf into the Bad. about seven o’clock
in the evening, all St. Moritz stopped
to stare. Up on the high piazza of
the hotel Don Pedro saw, with a
sense of reassurement, madame and
her daughter, waiting to assist at his
triumphal entry/
Pedro's exhausted intellect seetns to
have extracted most pleasure from scowl-
ing and staring and driving at full gal-
lop everywhere. All he wanted to make
him a complete fire brigade was a hose
and a helmet. Three columns more, and we
And him at it again : “About a quarter past,
the ladies were in their places. Don Pedro
;prang on the box and gathered up the long
ribbons, one of the smart men in livery
sounded the gleaming horn, and off dashed
the four grey horses aimd the envy of the
assembled crowd.” Also “....he drove
with merciless skill, pleased that the girl
showed no shrinking at the breakneck pace.
Six columns more of this sort of thing, and
they are married and living in a draught-
haunted castle surrounded by precipices.
They seem to spend most of tlieir time look-
ing over the precipices and shuddering. At
the beginning of chapter five, when they have
been married two weeks, the authoress says :
“Shameless sightseers gathered of an after-
noon on the road, hoping to encounter the
pair walking or driving by”—at full gallop,
of course. Two more pages, and something
seems to be amiss, for we read (with a feel-
ing of savage satisfaction) : “Without a
word, without raising his haggard eyes, Don
Pedro left the room.” The reader —who, by
this time has grown weary of the galloping-
fool, and is flicking over the pages to. see
how it all ends —next lights on this : ‘She
obeyed dumbly, and then sat looking at him
vacantly with white hands folded.” W e
notice, as we hurry over the leaf, that lie
shouts at her to “say something for God’s
sake!” Two pages further on, the lady has
attached a gold locket to a silken thread,
and is leaning out the castle window in the
twilight listening to it tinkle against the
stone wall. Don Pedro tells her to stop it,
and goes away chamois-hunting. The next
four pages are nearly all shuddering solilo-
quies on the wind-swept top of the castle, or
aimless crawling about amongst the rocks
with lanterns at dead of night. Once we
observe that “Don Pedro’s eyes flashed an
instant at the old man’s temerity; then he
shrugged his shoulders and laid his hand on
the knob of the door.” (In the old days he
would have laid it on the hilt of his sword
and muttered “Forsooth!” or “Enough,
sirrah!” As he is a modern and does not
wear a sword, it has to be either the door-
knob or the spoons —and if the authoress had
written, “laid his hand on the spoons” the
public might have taken him for a house-
breaker.) Some more examples as the eye
bounds on its way across the pages : “I wish
you wouldn’t stand so near the edge. Are
you not afraid? She shook her head....
Cautiously he made his way toward the
castle, stopping to listen at every step... .
Once or twice he stopned and cursed his
crazy errand. .. .And still the white figure
crouched by the pool.”
It is not surprising, after all the fatu-
ous midnight wandering with lanterns
and peering down precipices and into
wells to find that, at last, they both
fell in and perished. At least she falls into
a glacier in the castle backyard, and he. in
despair, “steps off the wind-swept tower into
mid-air.” And, if nobody was very sorry
about it, his team of four greys were pro-
bably very glad of the rest.
KODAE.


- Westinghouse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
I
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attentiou
1 It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing wit.; unre
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
5 It >s very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
georoe, street, concord west, n.s.w.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Simplest and Most
Reliable.
\&lves
Sole
'For ,’'V
Steam, Air and Water.
rhe Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
W you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
J n’l- J 1 £ epay you t 0 ves %ate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylmder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Sole Agents Write for Catalogue.
Nett.
BROWN & HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
flit
1
JJ
EC ONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor—Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Write for full particulars to
The “Coodall”
The ‘‘All Cood”
There’s satisfaction in dealing with a firm that
Machinery
Machinery
safeguards your interests like
to KsSfe aS Tffi'r w hat de “‘ H [,Brma .“« is sare
to result.
Now, what are your requirements?
We can supply
CIRCULAR SAWS
band saws
bog band mills
SPINDLE MOULDERS
tenoners
dove tailers
SANDERS
high speed lathes
DRILLING MACHINES
hack saw machines
SHAPING MACHINES
PUNCHING MACHINES
SHEARING MACHINES
BLOWERS
MORSE TWIST DRILLS
MILLING CUTTERS
GEAR CUTTERS
REAMERS
SLOTTING CUTTERS
TAPS AND DIES
W" like ogr with ■*. wce tl
T - M. GOOD ALL &, CO. LTD.
an, „ U '“ VerSal Machines Merchants,
r 3 ~ 5 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
h I
'I ' I
- - • •
M-V >*/)£
. ■ * - -te-r
'1
. »
. I
SSM
:
iZ-mw.
■m
m
O
IS
TJ7
□
D
-j
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROAI 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
nap?
81
ilraO
SYD
mo
RICHMON
YORK
«5|
m
KENT
DOVER
BUTE
The
COMPLETE
Rexophone
Catalogue
Fully describes these end other Models
Ask for * Copy. We post it FREE
M JACKSON & MACDONALD,
DEPT. B, DRUITT STREET. SYDNEY.
J THE BAND
WJT3
Ml
q THE BESSES O'
THE BARN have
gone but the Besses o’
the Pocket have come
to stay.
The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are tuned to Perfec-
Crackajack
Mouth
Organs
pr MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds,
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds, .. . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds . .
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds, . . . 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents : Allan & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne, Adelaide
Bendgo & Geelong


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK. LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
COMBINED ELECTRIC LIGHTING and REFUSE DESTRUCTOR INSTALLATIONS
are now proved to be the most economical for Electric Lighting of
Towns.
The “ Heenan ” Patent Destructor
embodies the latest patents in connection with Refuse Destruction.
Estimates Furnished on Application to the Australian Agency—
T. K. ST€AN€S, 37-43 Pitt St., Sydijey
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cemeivt (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
building of Fibro-Centent.
LOOK AT Tlllt SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cenient is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter; Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME,
Supplied also In Slates fot; roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole Importera-
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
“TANGYE”
Portable Type Oil Engine.
m
:V- -•
; .-Li
“TANGYE ”
Suction Gas Producer Plant.
“ CLAYTON and
SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable Steam Engine.
DALGETY’S
Machinery Department
SYDNEY: Miller’s Point
MELBOURNE : a’Beckett Street
and at
BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON,
TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE
and FREMANTLE.
TANGYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Gas
Engines and Suction Gas Plants,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Irriga-
tion Plants and PUMPS of all descriptions.
<<
GAN
MILKING MACHINES. All the
leading Dairvfarmers are installing
the “GANE.” It is a highly fin-
fshed machine and a wonderful Labor Laver.
“CLAYTON e SHUTTLEWORTH”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines,
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps, etc.
MACHINES
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMERICAN High Duty
Lathes.
Tool Room Lathes.
Geared Head Lathes.
Upright Radial & Sensi-
tive Drilling Machines,
Planers, Shapers.
MILWAUKEE Millers.
e
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR
GARAGES OR REPAIR SHOPS.
v-***
Full Particulars
obtainable from
LIGHTING.]
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores, Farms and Townships,
Tbe “PE LAITTE”
AIR CAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest IHuininant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted bv the N.S. W. Government- and by the Railway
Commissioners of N.S.W. and \ ictoria. Thousands
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hoteis,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large
Machines supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant, than Goal was,
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
st. George’s Terrace.
PERTH.
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
SUCTION
GAS PLANTS.
p m
fc^fP-SHFAPIHGtt^
It you want a machine giving maximum comfort to the
*' a a ■ a • a a t «... ...... ... ' .1 d- «r a I milt I\l £%
the
It is the keynote to the best improvements. Write for
Catalogue. All parts interchangeable with the “\\olse!ey/^_^
PM
v*?
Sole Agents
DANGAR CtDYE a.O?SYDN£n
REDUCE YOUR COSTS
BY USING
TILCHMAN’S PATENT AIR COMPRESSORS
VOLUMETRIC
EFFICIENCY
GUARANTEED.
Over 2750 in use
As Supplied to British Government.
ROPE, BELT,
STEAM or
electrically driven.
Sole Australasian Agents:
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
16 Equitable Building, Ceorge St, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
