

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R. G. WATKINS «SC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—: fob— m . .
ing and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Stom .&OH&C &M-
Sole
Agents
for
“Acme" Stonebreakers
Have the largest output. Least waste. Take with ease
large pieces of stone. Very simple. Direct action.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
B.A. Agent! C. 0. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
gOBAFIT.
Wfi
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantkbd.
«/. C. Lu dows'd & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
— l>\
" Take it back,
1 must have—
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
unket
Ml I I
tablets
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
1
COVERS about 20 Per Cent., TUBES 25 1 2r Cent, and over.
hgfhfgh
THE SILVERTOWN ROBBER CO., 279 George St., Sydney; §at 33 Bolton St., Newcastle.
ADVANCES MADE ON ALL SECURITIES
N.S.WVMONT’dE PIEJE C 9 I tLo
■m m ■ ■ ■ wmm w_
CASTLE REACH ST 74SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT general manacfp
MONEY ADVANCED UPON ALL SECURITIES AT REASONABLE RATES OF INTEREST.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
-
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
DRINK
PABCO
(Asbestos Coated Malthoid).
The standard roofing for all classes of building. In the
summer time PABCO’S ivory tint is cooler to live under than any
other ; in winter the same roofing continues to comfort by keeping
the cold out and rendering buildings cosy and warm. PABCO can
be furnished in either green or terracotta, if desired, to harmonise
with any particular surroundings or details.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U D
fghfghfg
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
jlioffat-Virtue £*. d .
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office),
SYDNEY.
No complications. No water
needed. Low fuel consumption.
From 2]/ 2 h.p. Single and Double
Cylinder. Stationary types.
Portable types. Saw Rigs.
Power Sprayers.
Get the New-Way Catalogue.
New-Way
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE
HELIDON SPA WATER
Please choose your “ SPA ” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise _
The Bulletin
Voi. 33.—N0. 1680.]
[Thursday, April 25, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW TECHNICAL BOOKS.
LISTS OP BOOKS ON ANY
SUBJECT SENT POST FREE.
Aitken’s Manual of the Telephone, 21/-; p, 21/8.
Van Deventer: Telephonology, 20/-; posted 21/9.
Lang, H.: Metallurgy, Vol. 1., 15/-; posted 15/6.
Brinsmade, R. B.: Mining Without Timber, 15/- ;
posted 15/4.
Spofford, 0. M.: Theory of Structures, 20/-; p. 20/6.
O’Callaghan’s Dairying, 10/-; posted 10/4.
Taylors Shop Management, 7/6; posted 7/10.
Barker s Wool Carding and Combing, 6/-; p. 6/3.
Woodbury’s Beauty Culture, 6/-; posted 6/4.
Palmer’s Foundry Practice, 10/6 ; posted 10/10.
Searle’s Modem Brickmaking, 15/-; posted 15/4.
Alford’s Bearings and Lubrication, 12/6 ; p. 12/10.
Davis’s Practical Letterer, 6/-; posted 5/3.
GEORGE
NICHOLSON’S FACTORY ORGANISATION AND COSTS, 305., posted 325.
ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD. (Booksellers), 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
• aaaMOd am asn ox moh
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
The great Antiseptic Powder which contains
no acid, and is guaranteed absolutely harmless
to the enamel. In contact with moisture the
powder liberates free, active Oxygen, and it
is the Oxygen which whitens the teeth so won-
derfully, and wards off decay as no other pre-
paration for the teeth can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal
bottles, handy for travel or home, price 1/ <3,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable information
# 2] regarding the Teeth.
1 -X
CSC
yk/j
C O
The Red Page
Prescriptions for Jno. Bull
Jno. Bull is beginning to feel worried
about his health. He isn’t the man he was.
He is getting old; and other nations are
getting young. And the nation’s physicians
are being called in with distressing fre-
quency to prescribe. Two of the prescrip-
tions, recently published, warrant considera-
tion. They are The Future of England, by
George Peel (Macmillan), and Heredity and
Society, by W. G. D. Whetham and Cather-
ine Whetham (Longmans, Green, both per
Sydney Book Club).
Peel sets himself to find out what the
national purpose of England is, and whether
it is feasible, and whether it is sufficient.
Why is Britain the greatest world Power at
the present moment? Not Jno.’s wealth;
for it was not the power of money but the
stimulus of poverty that made the English
range the globe for commercial profit. Not
religion; for England’s empire has been
acquired in conflict with the leading Powers
of Europe, who are also officially Christian,
and in the case of India there is always the
necessary disclaiming of any religious motive.
Not militarism, in a country that has no
army. Not the genius of our sovereigns,
for even if they had had any it wouldn’t
have mattered. Not the characteristics of
the nation, for the Englishman is regarded
in European literature as “unreliable, proud,
selfish and quarrelsome.” Jno. Bull’s claims
to his present precarious greatness are that
‘England led the way in organising modern
freedom and in organising modern industry.”
One of the causes why England originated
the latter movement in the 18th century
was that:—
As liberty was ever in difficulties on the
Continent, and ever conquering here, there
arrived on our shores and settled in our midst,
for a space of two centuries, the very
choicest workmen of Europe In all that
administers to the convenience, the effici-
eocy, .the luxury, the amenity of life, we
owe an incalculable debt to the refugees
from continental despotism. But the
main reason of the industrial revolution was
that every Englishman had become aware
that he had attained the stature and the
rights of manhood. This liberated a force
among us which in its practical result had
till then no parallel in the world. Men
turned to conquering nature with a zeal
which to-day can best be understood by those
who have breathed the air of an Australia
a Canada, a South Africa, or an Unitec
States, those homes of the English people
where the energy of our 18th century is
reproduced before our eyes.
England is specially furnished by nature,
in the magnitude and situation of her coal-
fields, for the commercial struggle of the
future; but, despite her unsurpassed organ-
ism of industry raised on that foundation:—
Even our best industries are not specially
satisfactory, measured by the only true test,
the wealth drawn therefrom by the mass of
those engaged in them.
The author’s solution of labor troubles
and of the impasse that Free Trade imposes
upon a country, by preventing 't raising the
wages of its workers to meet the rise of
prices, is co-operation.
The best hope is that the savings of the
people should be directed to investment in
their own businesses. We should hear little
in those days of the nationalism by the State
of industries which will be partly owned
or controlled by the people themselves....
The army of industry will march then not
as conscripts, but as volunteers. In that
day the last word of the industrial revolution
will have been uttered.
A pious hope. Not a word of Protection,
you notice. And how the operatives of
England are going to save enough money
out of their miserable wages to invest in
their own industries is not suggested.
d*
In discussing England’s international fu-
ture, Peel stresses the often-overlooked fact
that the Englishman, by contiguity and racial
composition, is a European. The “splendid
isolation” dyke had been invaded so ruth-
lessly of late, by entente and treaty, that
we must reconcile ourselves to the fact that
England’s future is but part of that of
Europe. She cannot escape from her alli-
ances : she must keep her fleet on the door-
mat.
The paradox and scandal of the world is
that for 15 centuries, since the adoption by
the Continent of Christianity, European his-
tory has been a tale of blood. To resolve
that paradox, to abate that scandal, to sub-
stitute concert for conflict, to bring the
glories or the devilries of war to their lowest
dimension, and to teach mankind to grow
great in common, is the international future
of England. She provides a remedy. If
Europe will not accept, and will cling to
force as its beatitude, western civilisation
will perish, for mankind will tear up its
title-deeds as surely as they tore up those of
feudalism. Then, echoing the words of
Napoleon, “cette vieille Europe m’ennuie,”
England will turn away for ever to those
young nations of hers that are becoming
ancient, and to those old nations of the East
that are becoming young.
And in that final future:—
She looks to the distant hour, when the
princes and peoples of India, and the princes
and people of Africa in their train, shall
share to the full in the Imperial partner-
ship.
A mongrel Empire, in which, of course, a
White Australia will have no place. Peel’s
failure to diagnose the critical condition of
his patient is that he is an Englishman. He
is part of the disease. We must turn from
this interesting book to a more limited in-
quiry, touched upon, it is true, by Peel.
That is the urgent necessity for breeding a
new race of Englishmen.
&
In Heredity and Society, W. C. D.
Whetham and Catherine Whetham discuss
the problem of national degeneracy. For it
is evident that the old, or alleged, qualities
of the English race are in the process of
disappearing: the Englishman of to-day is
scarcely recognisable by his grandfather, so
marked has been the change in the qualities
of the national organism. Being an organ-
ism, the racial soul fluctuates from genera-
tion to generation. Nobody will say that the-
Elizabethan Englishman resembled the Eng-
lishman of the Early Victorian era,
or that the rioting, mafficking English-
man of this decade has preserved un-
altered the racial traits of Cromwell’s Eng-
lishmen. The race is sensitive to every in-
fluence, and moulded to one form or an-
other as a careless touch is laid on it here
and there. Perhaps the best example of
racial modification is to be observed in Aus-
tralia, where in three generations the Eng-
lish stock has been made over, inoculated
with sunlight, pawed by the tremendous
hand of an empty continent, and trans-
formed into a new species. Not that the
process is finished, or will ever finish.
Within the last 20 years there is apparent a
new self-reliance, a new optimism, that is
as noticeable in the national ideals as in the
nation’s literature.
How can we, then, consciously improve
the breed of a race? Education is of no
appreciable value. You may educate a
child; but, as acquired characteristics are
not transmitted, that child’s child starts
off no whit the better than the original child,
except that, as a secondary result of educa-
tion, it is probable that the second genera-
tion may be born into an environment more
favorable to education. But practically
every 30 years a race has to begin its edu-
cation all over again—to start, with the
child, from the same mark that its parents
had to toe. So improvement in the material
surroundings, though a good thipg, does not
suffice to improve the quality of the race.
The only thing that will beneficially modify,
and ultimately transform, the race is select-
ive breeding. Without some check on the
influences to which races are subject, we
have no guarantee—we Australians as well
as we English—that our races will not be
as suddenly and as inexplicably wiped out
as were the great empires of the past. It
is quite time we had a controlling hand on
the machinery of racial evolution. Whether
we know* or shall ever know, enough about
the machinery to operate the levers to our
advantage is a subject on which the authors
of Heredity and Society can give us little
information; but their book is valuable as
a survey of the intricate problem and its
chief obstacles.
For instance, we know very little yet of
that species of discontinuous variation
known as Mendelian inheritance. We know
the laws from Mendel’s world-famous cross-
ing experiments with plants; but with re-
spect to their operation with human beings
we are still in the guessing stage. We know,
for instance, that if brown eyes marries
blue eyes, each being pure-bred brown and
blue, all the children will be brown-eyed, be-
cause brown is a “dominant” and blue a
“recessive” character. We know that cer-
tain physical deformities are “dominant”
characters, which tells us that normal people
will never reproduce it, even though born
of an abnormal family, for, as they do not
show the character, they are free from it.
And we know that some forms of deaf-
mutism are “recessive.” Hence it is specially
dangerous for normal folk, who both come
from deaf-mute stock, to intermarry; the
defect is likely to reappear in their children.
If the laws of Mendalian inheritance could
be tabulated for human beings, we could pre-
dict the certain result of any proposed mar-
riage, and if it threatened deterioration, the
next logical step would be for the State to
forbid such a union.
Modern humanatism is probably the
greatest barrier to the race. We patch up
degenerates and allow them to produce more
degenerates—and degenerates are prolific
producers. The Jew is an example of sur-
vival .by means of continuous suppression.
And in the end the Jew may be killed by
kindness. Christianity, biologically consid-
ered, has a definite survival value, as we
see from the maintenance of the birth-rate
among the devout R.C. peasantry of Brit-
tany and the industrial Irish Catholic popu-
lations of large towns. And Protestant
clergy always have large families.
In order that a population should main-
tain its numbers unaltered, it is necessary
that four children should be born to couples
that have children at all. And if one
element of a nation reproduce itself faster
than the rest, it will dominate the average
character of the nation at an ever-increasing
rate. The one assured fact of recent investi-
gation is the constant variation of a nation,
of every nation.
In matters affecting population, as with
the weather, it should be possible for the Reg-
istrar-General to issue some sort of reasoned
forecast, even to hoist a storm-warning.
The quality and number of the births taking
place in one year will not produce the full
effect for another 20 or 30, just as varia-
tions in barometric pressure take 20 or 30
hours to bring about the conditions they
foretell.
J*
The real menace of our falling birth-rate
lies in the fact that the birth-rate of the
Asiatic is rising, even under modern condi-
tions.
In Japan, in spite of much material pros-
perity [an assumption that to us does not
seem justified—the prosperity of Japan is a
public prosperity: it has not tended to raise
the conditions of the poorest classes] during
the past 20 years the birth-rate has shown
a considerable increase, from about 27 to 33
per thousand; so that the shrinkage of popu-
lation among the European races may be
compensated for ultimately by sustained in-
crease of the Asiatic peoples.... If the East-
ern nations, while retaining their simple,
less exacting standards of life and different
sense of racial morality can profit by our im-
provements in hygiene, take advantage of
our increasing medical knowledge, and utilise
the invefitions which represent the life-work
of our men of science, our inventors and our
captains of industry, they must of necessity
supplant the European populations, when-
ever the two races come into contact with
each other....
Down the long centuries of the existence
of prehistoric man, race after race has been
used in turn to advance the great purpose.
Race after race has played its part, and
given place to others more capable of going
further along the road. Now, when civilisa-
tion is becoming common to all mankind, the
dangers of one race are the peril of all. It
is possible that the creative power has got
as far as it can by the use of unconscious
agents. Further advance may only be pos-
sible by conscious selection, and our grow-
ing knowledge of heredity, and our ever-
strengthening inward impulse to apply it to
the betterment of our own race, may be but
the manifestation of the great hidden creative
Power of the Universe as it takes a new
path to turn the obstacles which threaten
to block all its old roads of advance.
William James, the brother of Henry, was
as remarkable a man as that great novelist.
Henry, being a novelist, forged a style that
left him unintelligible to any but his wor-
shippers. William, being a philosopher,
wrote with a verve, a lucidity, a lighthearted-
ness, and, sometimes, a slang that surely
never before have been employed by meta-
physicians. William, the founder of the new
philosophy of pragmatism—or, as he termed
it, “A New Name for some Old Ways of
Thinking”—died in 1910. He began his
academic career in 1872, at Harvard, as an
instructor in physiology, and went from
that science to anatomy, psychology and
philosophy. His chief works, The Principles
of Philosophy, The Will to Believe, The
Varieties of Religious Experience , Pragmat-
ism, A Pluralistic Universe, placed him as
a new force in philosophy ; and his fame is
secure. Emile Boutroux, in .William James
(Longmans, Green, per Sydney Book Club),
sums up the meaning of his teaching. Wil-
liam James hated scholasticism; he loved
brutal facts; he built his system of philoso-
phy upon experience and common-sense. His
language was picturesque, personal; ‘‘and
his works possess this rare attribute: they
are read.” This little book furnishes an
admirable introduction to this most stimu-
lating of modern philosophers.
A collection of 400 Good Stories, which
originally appeared monthly in an American
magazine, from G. Robertson, Sydney, does
not of course claim to be new. No good
stories ar.e new. The editor naively sug-
gests that these anecdotes “will be helpful to
public speakers,” 2&id he kindly provides an
index. Fropi this we find that the funniest
things are children, with 24 anecdotes; lit-
erature and authors are nearly as funny,;
then come marriage,' school, animals, the
courts, doctors, intoxication and servants;
while such subjects as thinness, sunsets, suc-
cess, poverty, red tape, dentists and chicken-
stealing are, as Rod Quinn has remarked,
not a fit subject for laughter.
Charles Garvice evidently believes in Girl.
His first book was Just a Girl : his latest is
The Other Girl; and in between he has The
Outcast of the Family, Nance, Queen Kate,
The Heart of a Maid, The Girl from the
South, and various Loves and Cupids.
Myrtle Reed hovers between Love-Letters,
Spinsters, Lavender and Old Lace. The
curious fact is that these novelists are almost
entirely read by women.
Chesterton, the Exuberant
After The Man Who Was Thursday, G.
K. Chesterton has discovered The Man Who
Was Alive. Manalive (Nelson, per Sydney
Book Club) he calls this extraordinary
book. It is, like all Chestertonia, original,
humorous, extravagant, poetic, maddening
and a little mad. Indeed, Chesterton has
a liking for insanity. His heroes are all a
little mad, heroically or humorously—
though Chesterton would prove by seven
paradoxes that they are all supremely sane.
For instance, the childish individual who is
alive in this novel possibly represents the
author’s idea of splendid sanity. Chesterton
comes as an evangel to proclaim the great
tidings that we have all got, or should have,
two legs, and if we stand on our heads we
can get some novel effects by waving them
in the air. Also, by climbing trees and sit-
ting on roofs we can experience a joy of life
forgotten since the race descended from the
boughs. His theory in Manalive is that if
we want romance we can manufacture it
for home consumption; as, for instance, if
we want to appreciate our home, the best
way is to leave it—he specially recommends
that we should jump over the garden hedge
and take the garden rake with us —and set
off to find it again by travelling right round
the world. And when you come back to
your home, your wife and your children, you
will be surprised what a nice little home
and what a nice little wife, and what a nice
little family you’ve found. Also, if you want
to keep up the romance of married life or
the romance of burgling, all you have to do
is to burgle your own house or to plant your
wife in different boarding-houses or business
offices, appear as a boarder or an organ-
grinder and elope with her. And there is a
realm of unsuspected fun in practical jokes,
and a blinding world of wonder in the con-
struction of paper boats.
Innocent Smith, The Man Who Was
Alive, is an enormous fellow with a very
small head. His exploits lead two eminent
medical experts in insanity to conclude that
he is a criminal lunatic. He sits silent, making
paper boats, through a long mock-trial,
conducted in the boarding-house; and the
evidence produced by the defence, extraor-
dinary as it is, convinces the judge, the land-
lady, comfortably asleep, that Innocent is
entitled to a triumphant acquittal. The
characters of the various counsel are brilli-
antly and humorously drawn; the incidents
of Innocent’s career are dramatic; and there
are passages, such as that introducing the
great wind, that are packed with poetry.
The book thus begins:—
“A wind sprang high in the west, like a
wave of unreasonable happiness, and tore
eastward across England, trailing with it
the frosty scent of forests and the cold in-
toxication of the sea. In a million holes and
corners it refreshed a man like a flagon, and
astonished him like a blow. In the inmost
chambers of intricate and embowered houses
it woke like a domestic explosion, littering
the floor with some professor’s papers till
they seemed as precious as fugitive, or blow-
ing out the candle by which a boy read
‘Treasure Island,’ and wrapping him in roar-
ing dark. But everywhere it bore drama
into undramatic lives, and carried the trump
of crisis across the world. Many a harassed
mother in a mean backyard had looked at
five dwarfish shirts on the clothes-line as at
some small, sick tragedy; it was as if she
had hanged her five children. The wind
came, and they were full and kicking as if
five fat imps bad sprung into them....
Many an unnoticed girl in a dank, walled
garden had tossed herself into the hammock
with the same intolerant gesture with which
she. might have tossed herself into the Thames ;
and that wind rent the waving wall of woods
and lifted the hammock like a balloon, and
showed her shapes of quaint cloud far be-
yond, and pictures of bright villages far
below, as if she rode heaven in a fairy boat.
Many a dusty clerk or curate, plodding a
telescopic road of poplars, thought for the
hundredth time that they were like the
plumes of a hearse; when this -invisible
energy caught and swung and clashed them
round his. head like a wreath or salutation
of seraphic wings.
♦
On the ground that Broadbent, the hero
of Shaw’s John Bull's Other Islund, is no
longer up-to-date, a “Home Rule Edition”
of that clever play has been produced by
Constable for sixpence. Of course this ne-
cessitates another jof Shaw’s prefaces. Shaw
explains that a sixpenny edition is needed
for Ireland, because “the only people in
Ireland who can afford more than sixpence
are those who live in England.” As for
Ireland:—
The Government will no doubt be glad to be rid
of it. The English people, with prices up and wages
down, care less, if possible, than they ever did about
it. Even the governing classes are feeling the pres-
sure of the Home Rule agitations in Egypt and
India more than in Ireland; for the Irish, now confi-
dent that their battle is won, are keeping compara-
tively quiet, whilst in the East the question is in
the acute stage in which the Government has to ex-
plain that really very few people have had confes-
sions extorted by torture in the police stations, and
that if the natives would only be reasonable and
recognise the advantages of British rule, and their
own utter unfitness for self-government, there would
be no need to imprison nationalists either in India
or Egypt; sq that, in effect, the natives have them-
selves to thank for whatever unpleasantness may hap-
pen to them.


2?
123 F
No. 123 F—Velvet Hat, lined Silk, trim’"
Fringe and Fancy Mount .. .. 30/
K >
mM
7a
&
SIF
(|W
No. GlF—Black Velvet Hat, trimmed Velvi-
and White Fancy Mount .. .. 35/
BE WISE.
BUY EVERYTHING at
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Hlo2— Coat and Skirt Costume, of striped
Heather mixed Tweed, shaped Panel back,
side pieces on hips, unlined, Well-cut
Skirt, with Shaped Panel to match. Grey,
Green, Brown .. 32/6
Hat 42/.
Fl4B—Coat and Skirt Costume, of useful
mixed Tweed, fancy strapnings on seams,
semi-fitting, Velvet Collar to match, well
cut Panel Skirt. Dark Greens, Brown,
Greys, and Heather mixtures .. 25/6
Hat 21/-
FASHION and ECONOMY
COMBINE IN:
Anthony Horderns’
F amous Low Prices.
Send for our Winter Fashion Book, posted free on request. It faithfully
illustrates all that is new in the world of dress, and will solve the
problem of economically conforming to the prevailing modes.
-fioraers7 c /
w-
Fan\oacs
Low
P rices
ST?
Si'
“W
se*
: f /J
i
M
mßm
1
1748
1732
5422
5478
No. 1732—Smart Tweed Coat, £-length, loose back, storm Collar, in Dark Grey, Green,
Fawn and Brown .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .... .. 257-
Similar style, but with Empire panel back, same shades 257-
Hat . . . . ...... 21/-
No. 5422 —Navy Cloth Coat, -g-length, panel back, Revers and Cuffs trimmed with Silk
Braid .. .. .. .. 27/6
Or m fine Face Cloth, D. B. Velvet Collar 39/6
Hat *. 257-
No. 5478—Navy Cloth Coat, J-lengtli. semi-fitting back, trimmed Moire and Silk Braid 217-
Hat .. .. .. 217-
No. 1748—Striped Tweed ; Coat, j-length, Sac back or semi-fitting Storm Collar in Mid
Grey. Reseda .and Bronze Green .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. 22/6
Also Heather-mixed Tweed, with semi-fitting back, 27/6; and with plain Collar.. 27/6
Hat 21/-
No. 14CF —Velvet Hat, trimmed Cord
and Wings .. .. .. 18/6
No. 151F—Velvet Hat, lined
Chiffon, trimmed large
Dahlia
colored
Chiffon
.. 32/6
Postage must be added to the Prices quoted on this page.
87F—Straw Hat, trimmed full
Ribbon '
bow of
.. 16/6
52F— Velvet Hat, trimmed large white
fancy Feather Mount 32/6
Patterns and Price
Lists posted free
on application.
§
No. 2331) —Opera Coat, of fine Habit Cloth,
full cut, loose Magyar Sleeve, the large
Revers, Sailor Collar and Cuffs, strapped
with Black Velvet and Satin Cord Loops
and Buttons. Collar finished Black Silk
Tassels. Colors: Sky, Biscuit, Pink, Saxe,
Vieux Rose and Cream .. .. 49/6
Also similar style at 29/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


Arnott's MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. I4i
For O m Short R,F ” ' 22 Long RF > and 22 Rong Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, G.P.0.. Adelaide, South Australia. r
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOLND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Music, as you like it*,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
V
/
s
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons'
Infants’ Powders
lor the
Little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fretfulness
and the many ailments common to infancy
Recommended by H.R.H. The Crown Princess ol Roumanla*
MISS FRANKLIN, c/o Capt. Embury, R.E., Blackdown Corner, near Leamington, writes:
I have been asked to write to you by an Austrian Lady, to know if you will send her two boxes,
each containing ioo of your Teething Powders. She says they are the same you have supplied
to the Crown Princess of Roumania, from whom she first heard of them.”
ASHTON & PARSONS'
INFANTS' POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless they cool the gums —comfort the child produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep —render teething quite easy prevent pain and disorder
are pleasant to the taste are mild and gentle in action may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe—and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use™
hfgh
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H.I H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
fghfghfgh
W* Ashton & Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, i/ij ; 60 Powders, 2/9; 100 Powders, 4/6.
To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS —ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C, ENGLAND
u
MARTINI
Target Rifles
Hold the World’s Record
If you would win your club championship
you must use a B.S.A. Martini, No. 8 or
No. io Model Target Rifle, fitted with
B.S.A. No. 8 Aperture Sight. Mr. J. Tepe
used this combination when he put up the
recent world’s record of 299 out of a possible
300, at 25, 50 and 100 yards.
Mr. J. King also used this Rifle and Sight
in his record shoot of an all central Possible
at 200 yards !
B.S.A. Martini Rifles are made in eleven
models, '22, ‘3lO, and ‘32/20 bore, for range
or sporting work. Prices from 70/—.
Write for Special B S.A. Martini Booklet to
D. Y. RENNIE,
Representing B.S.A. Company Ltd.,
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
*€
/VNTISEPTIC THROAT
I m m
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tettrazzini writes: —“I thank you
for the boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excel-
lent and efficacious.”
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Sole Manufacturers—
EVANS SONS LESCHER 8 WEBB, Ltd., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS’ ” Pastilles, and see you get them.
Q\
&
fgh
fgh
THE GREATEST MONEY MAKER.
Saves 80 per cent, of your
PRESENT AERATED WATERS BILL.
THE “REGAL”
Aerated Water Machine
{ 1912 \
'Model*
produces Sodawater of the finest quality at ONE PENNY
PER DOZEN, and delicious Lemonade and Gingeiale
at less than THREE PENCE PER DOZEN.
The “Regal” is a triumph of engineering science—
easy to work—no waste of gas—carbonates perfectly—
compact—mounted on one stand.
Write AT ONCE for Descriptive Catalogue.
Solo Manufacturers:
Eckersley & Sons
Corner Bridge 8 Young Sts., Sydney.
And at
Melbourne.
MR. C. G. GURR, Editor and PublisHer
o f tbe “ Licensed Victuallers*
Gazette,** Adelaide, tl\e well-
known newspaper, writes of
Clements
Tonic.
Mr. C. G. GURR is one of
the foremost scholarly writers
and journalists of South Aus-
tralia, and is held in high
esteem by his townsmen in the
“City of Churches.” He is
one of the active members of
the party to which he belongs,
and visits various parts of the
Commonwealth in their inter-
ests. Here is an extract from
his editorial, published Decem-
ber 23, 1911:
' •:
"Clements Tonic has become a household word in all regulated homes
from Australia to New Zealand.
{e Few genuine reliable medicines such as this have attained the solid
reputation for effectiveness in the thorough restoration of health that
Clements Tonic has achieved.
“Medical men use it with benefit where other specifics fail.”
“Licensed Victuallers ’ Gazette,”
Pulteney Street, Adelaide, 23/12/ , 11.
All Stores and Chemists sell Clements Tonic for Nervous Breakdown,
Loss of Sleep, Constipation, Poor Blood, Windy Indigestion,
Weakness, Biliousness and Sick Headache.


I
A Family
Medicine
Without
Alcohol
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic
and alterative, free from alcohol.
What is a “tonic”? A medicine
that imparts strength or tone; a
medicine that builds up, gives
vigor and power. What is an
‘ ‘ alterative ” ? A medicine that
alters or changes unhealthy ac-
tion to healthy action. Ayer’s
Sarsaparlila does all this with-
out stimulation. Ask your doc-
tor if a family medicine, like
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, is not vastly
better without alcohol than
with it.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mail., U, S. A.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
W
1
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use sine# 1596.
CURES
Austral'an Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
8* GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges m
not always suffice
ensure good sport, but
goo'd sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction .with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two 'Eley Loaded,' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme’
A bright orangeg inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
l (43-gr.) Smokeless.
Eley ‘Eloid*
A light maroon Cartridge.
Loaded vvithEley(33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
E ley Bros., Ld., London
Ensr.
V
/
fg
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BOHWINCTOW’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
(1404.)
<6
o
Tr
ft
“Salt-Cellars” and No Bust
do great harm to a woman’s appearance. You can increase
your vitality, build up your strength, develop your bust to
normal, and fill out the unsightly ‘‘salt-cellars.”
A thin woman is not necessarily plain; in fact, many thin
women are admittedly pretty, but the admission is always
qualified with —“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenua-
tion and development, and will send same and a Free Sample
Treatment to you free of charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp.
All communications private and confidential. Write or call
for full particulars.
FAL,LIEIIE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
VARICOSE
VEINS
IN THE LEGS
ARE
CURABLE
FOR many years
past, Vari-
cose Veins have
been looked upon
as generally incur-
able, except with
the assistance
of the surgeon’s
knife, and those
who understood the
subject realised
that method to be
one of procrastina-
tion only, as the
trouble invariably
returns. Not so
with the modern,
painless method
that cures perman-
ently.
The VECSEY METHOD of TREATMENT
absolutely cures the worst eases by external appli-
cation only. A method oj cure that gives no
unpleasant trouble, and that is painless and effi-
cacious to the utmost degree. . .Only those who
suffer, and those who have seen many cases, can
realise the dreadful affliction that Varicose Veins
are. A painless cure, without laying up, is,
under the circumstances, a positive boon to
humanity. Hundreds endorse it, and you should
learn all about it if you are a sufferer.
FREE BOOK. FREE ADVICE.
Let us send you our Free Book, which gives full
particulars of this truly wonderful remedy. Send
2d. stamp to pay part postage on same to any
address. Consultation and Advice FREE. Cail
if possible.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face With Death J
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. H. Smith, of Parle Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for 30
years, hut since takina your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
hfg
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days’ Fret
Trial . Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Keststing or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
BIS. A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
l Saddles, etc.
! M A ,Lii T s £3.10 to £9
\ Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient pos nge, for
Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 280, LIVERPOOL*
AGENT for MEAD
VAL. F. COLE, Bonk Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners
that win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will
supply the art. It considers the whole subject from
the time you meet until you two are one. Valuable
chapters about dress, personal appearance and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of
ourious love letters & FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits
in prose and poetry that you can find daily use for.
2/6 posted will bring the book, and incidentally, hap-
piness with the one you love. ANGLO-AMERICA N
PUB. CO., Waterloo Ch’mb’s, Geo-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter*
million Wayback books
■old to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with palling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women <Sr children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
A BAD LEG
CURED BY
Solomon
C'C:*.
.-.fvv
Solution
S.
“Some time ago I suffered intense
pain in my leg. For one week it was
terrible. A friend recommended
SOLOMON SOLUTION, so I got a jar. Ever
since using it I have had no return of
that excruciating pain ; it certainly
suited my case MARVELLOUSLY. I am
57 and take long walks, so you can
believe I feel myself cured. I have re-
commended it to two of my friends
who have also greatly benefited by it."
(Sgd.) Mrs. E. A. C. Payne
Budgeree, via Boolarra,
South Gipps'and.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Chemists
and Storekeepers post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourkc Street, Melbourne
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Autumn Dream.
I heard a young voice calling
Through shadows softly down,
When Summer dusks were falling
About the yellow town,
The old town chestnut-shaded
That somewhere I had found
When all the years had faded
And still the days went round.
The windmill arms were turning,
The ruined dial stood
Where day’s last light was burning
In amber through the wood,
And on the river flowing
Below the turret’s breast
One sail of gold was blowing
Full-freighted to the West.
The walls with dry moss crusted
Were crumbling to decay,
The gate was worn and rusted
Across the sandy way;
And when the breezes blowing
Set Autumn leaves a-whirl,
They fluttered, brightly glowing,
About the yellow girl
Her saffron robe caressing;
The fingers of the light,
Her slender form were pressing
With dimpled touches bright;
And like a fountain leaping
Down paths of golden air,
A thousand joys were keeping
Pale revel in her hair. »
I knew her clear word spoken,
A word for me alone ;
The year’s red staff was broken,
The earth’s blue wonder flown ; .
In ruin round us wreathing
An Autumn magic curled,
Our hot lips faintly breathing
The yellow of the world.
Hand clasped in hand we wandered—
And oh, the way was bright!
But fear about us squandered
The moments of delight;
The ways were chestnuts haded,
The leaves came rustling down,
The sunset never faded •
About the quiet town.
But some long whisper sighing
Had held our blood in thrall,
We felt the darkness lying
In ambush by the wall,
We knew that death was wreathing
The chaplet Autumn curled
The while our lips were breathing
The yellow of the world.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Out-of the Night.
A glimmer of light in a haunted hollow,
Half-lit by the ghost of a pallid moon.
White star-gold gleaming in weird wind ripples
Afloat on the face of the brown lagoon.-
A tangled glimmer of lights inwoven,
Of phantom shadows and shapes unproven,
And over the night world, whitely cloven,
A wind-barred cloud in the sky aswoon.
The broken note of a swan home sailing
To reedy ripple and marsh and plain,
And the wind croons in from the withered ranges.
With a wail in its song from the realm of rain.
The eerie call of a curlew crying,
And, shadow with shadow, gauntly lying,
Creeps from the gap where the moon lies dying,
And a dead bough moans like a thing in pain.
A glimmer of light in a tangled valley
Half lit by a measure of thought’s white ray,
Where Life croons over her broken idols,
By huddled mile-marks on Time’s dim way;
Wan threads of light in the darkness glowing,
Like star-wisps over the water flowing,
And Darkness sits in the long Unknowing,
Crying afar for the light of Day.
1 When shall the gleaming of pale moon glimmer
Fade with the husks of a withered year,
And Life shall gather from Moon’s white measure
The secret symbols she bends to hear ?
The sound of the winds in the trees comes neigh
mg,
A low tattoo in the dead bark swaying,
And a dim light drifts on a world sea greying,
Where Thought lies moored to a broken pier.
VICTORIA.
L. K.
Ballade of Dead Wowserisms.
The starkest scoundrel in the land
lias pulled a long, sad face
When sin and sinners were at hand,
And dreamed of Heaven’s grace.
Whence comes the burden of my rhyme:
We’ve all been Wowsers in our time.
Belike yon Sot once wore a look
Of sanctimonious pain,
The while his good old parents took
Their evening nip. “Refrain!”
He doubtless moaned, with grief sublime
We’ve all been Wowsers in our time.
Young Juan, fracturer of hearts,
Pursues his evil way,
Unharassed by Remorse’s darts;
And yet, there was a day
When flirting seemed to him a crime. .. .
We’ve all been Wowsers in our time.
Embezzlers, burglars, thieves and thugs,
Rash wielders of the knife,
“Crooks,” “lambers-down” of artless “mugs”--
Each lived the Righteous Life
Till Age brought Sin and moral Grime....
We’ve all been Wowsers in our time.
Envoy.
So, spare, the Rev’rend Chadband Heep,
Restrain your stern assaults
On Snuffle’s tendency to weep
O’er total strangers’ faults.
You once felt shocked at Evil’s slime....
We’ve all been Wowsers in our time.
N.S.W.
J.B.D.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
*H t 4
V > V.'* 1} *
1- »- >■ ■*■ * 4> <
T^f
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
sP
“M*
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out cf order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 JOs.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
w 4
Safe - „ i_L»
ESS** 3 **
z**
/f^c r
ft? U< 'tyfirn/ vf'fyjAt'
/ c> //(/{£
mr-
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Biend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A A MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
iIHEHjy
ills
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THE NEW TYPE
(LARGE and SMALL)
Boomerang Grand
Ct
KTERCHAUCEABLf /rand
h AND FILED
REPOs
PAP TC
ALBERT’S SYSTEM
Is the Mouth Organ of quality, tonality and durability; its sound is pure, sweet and musical.
The BOOMERANG GRAND is a hundred years ahead of all those Mouth Organs styled under
sumptuous names. The GRAND has no pretentions; it is simply the best of the best; because,
apart from its numerous qualities, it possesses two more cardinal ones, viz.: The GRAND wastes
no wind, and has a larger range of REEDS than any of the Modern Mouth Organs. Again, the
Large and the Small GRAND are nobly finished in enamel or nickel, with gold lettering.
PRICE: The Large GRAND BOOMERANG, with 48 Reeds, 6/6
O' The Small GRAND BOOMERANG, with 24 Reeds, 3/6
To be had, post free, from any respectable dealer (who does not attempt to talk you over
Sti rrti'L?™. J. ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
I
foo)
LOOK AT AN
“ENSIGN” CAMERA
BEFORE PURCHASING
ANY OTHER ROLL-FILM
CAMERA.
** ENSIGNS ” are Daylight Loading, and are fitted
with Lenses and Shutters, the makers
of which is a guarantee of quality.
“ ENSIGNS ** run in Price from 5/- up to £l5/10/-
The “ENSIGN” Model No. 000 Is remarkable value.
It takes Roll-Films 4J x 3} ; is very portable and beautifully made.
Price
Complete
551-
I
UJ?
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Leading Photographic Merchants
in Australia,
Branches in every State
and New Zealand.
For
Warming
the
Bedclothes.
TP
1
For
Treating
Many
Human Ills.
The PERDRIAU
“TITAN” HOT WATER BAG.
We are now on the threshold of Winter, and you should certainly get a
Perdriau “Titan” Hot Water Bag and sleep in comfort on cold nights.
With this first-class home necessity you can warm the sheets before retiring,
as well as use it in the treatment of such ailments as neuralgic pains, earache,
backache, muscular pains, pains in the stomach and bowels, cold feet, etc.
The “Titan” Hot Water Bag i« made at our own factory from the highest-
grade rubber, strengthened with fabric and stayed at the seams. _ It will not
burst under extreme pressure and is warranted to withstand the action of boiling
water. Each bag is equipped with screw stopper and patent safety valve.
PRICES
9in.
lOin.
12in.
lOin.
12in.
14in.
Size.
Oin.
x Bin.
x Bin.
x Sin.
x lOin.
x 12in.
Call or write for a copy.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, SYDNEY,
And at 105 Elizabeth St., berween Collins and Bourke Sts., Melbourne.
AA'A A A A A a A A »_
A A A adC.CW
«w. />>;*;*»*
iAA aA a
*Af A a fV* A A * *<
M A a AAA A 0 AA>
MAAA A r A AT//, 1
»AA A
AAAA A aV a A A(*
»/a // a> ra aV
JAA a Aa> A f'.'ti
MAAA A A A A AM
AAA A A A a A A
• w/msm
»AAA A A'a A a A' 1
VAA\A a A A /
to
SMSSI
ftS
/c/ \ »
v CSr7
-Mtfe
x<y\yj^ y
\ 7>M
-V
\
l\
All over Australia thousands of up-to-date people
are now making their own soda-water at home in a
SPARKLET
SYPHON.
“ The Soda Fountain on a Tea-Tray.**
If you are tired of paying out good money for
“made” soda-water, with its lumber of empty
and broken bottles, why not try the
“SPARKLET” way?
With a “SPARKLET” Syphon you can make
absolutely pure aerated water instantly at a cost of
one penny a pint. It is less trouble than making a
pot of tea—a child can do it.
Ask your Storekeeper. Here are the Prices:—
C=SYPHON, 6/6 each.
B=SYPHON, 4/- „
C-BULBS 2/3 doz.
B-BULBS I/O „
READ & CAMPBELL, LTD., Importers, 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper.
Voi.. :’>3.—No. 1680.
THURSDAY, APRIL 25. 1912.
I’moii <>i).
ONE POSSIBLE FEATURE OF THE CASE.
The United States of America are planning (if other nations agree) a world-wide inquiry into the conditions underlying the
increased cost of living. —Cable to suffering public.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George-street North, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. U 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
■posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Comxnunica-
ttions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
.Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
■unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or xoash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction- — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
■account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
« agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa .-—The Central Nexus Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
Nexus Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A.- — Panama-Pacific Nexus Co.. Market Street.
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A.; Childs
Nexus Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Nexus Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. —TF. G. Punchiappxihamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6§in. x 14in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies .The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throxighout the Commonwealth, Nexu
Zealand, Fiji, British Nexu Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, 10oz. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Soz., Id., and 8-hoz. to
10oz., 24 d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 4«z., Id-,
and Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 1912.
“COMRADE” HODGE AND “COMRADE”
PODGE.
TChe other day “Comrade” Holland, of Syd-
ney was fined £lOO for keeping his son from
military training under the Commonwealth
Defence law; and a little later “Comrade”
Giles, of Broken Hill, was asked to pay
the same price for the same foolish prank.
In default, three months’ gaol, which “Com-
rade” Giles proceeded to serve inside a
martyr’s halo. Whereupon there is a call
to awake and arise and put down this curse
of militarism, and, in particular, Josiah
Thomas, who, besides being Commonwealth
Minister for External Affairs, is also M.P.
for Broken Hill, is asked what he pro-
poses to do about this alleged atrocious at-
tack on working-class interests.
This paper hates militarism as much as
anybody. The hired military person who
is employed to chuck an enemy out of a
country isn’t very different from the hired
unmilitary person who is hired to chuck
the non-paying guest out of a disorderly
house. Occasionally, it is true, the military
person adopts the so-called profession from
motives of patriotism, undertaking to do
for himself and others what he still sees
that all should do for themselves. But
mostly he becomes a member of the military
caste because there is a good deal of fuss
and feathers about it, and not much hard
work. if he aims at being an officer, he
sees ahead of him entry into drawing-rooms
that he wouldn’t get into otherwise, and if
he is content to be a mere ranker he sees
steady victuals and not much tear of hav-
ing to sweat for tliem. Ail the time tDat
he is doing the job of hired chucker-out he
produces nothing whatever. The unmilitary
chucker-out may have to carry beer and
other messages, and perhaps black the
boots; but the hired military chucker-out
merely loafs round and presents arms for
the millionth time, and in four cases out of
five—or 14 out of 15 —goes off on his pen-
sion, if one is coming his way, without ever
having chucked out anyone. After that
he takes a pub; or, if he can’t take
a whole pub, he takes part of one; or
he does odd jobs, when he can’t dodge them.
While he is a hired chucker-out he is an
economic waste, uselessly presenting arms
when he ought to be planting beans, and
when he has ceased to be a hired chucker-out
he is much too frequently an economic mis-
fortune. And when he actually has some
chucking out to do it is very doubtful
whether he is much of a success at the
business. There may be campaigns in
which the things that T. Atkins learns on
the parade ground are of tremendous im-
portance; but it is a long time since one
of them happened. There must be perman-
ent officers, no doubt; but, apart from
them, and generally speaking, the non-pro-
fessional chucker-out made a rather better
exhibition of himself in the S’African un-
pleasantness than the hired Atkins, who
had been carefully saved up for the pur-
pose.
* * * *
Nothing of any conseauence can, there-
fore, be said in favor of militarism, and the
military caste —meaning thereby the hired
variety. The hired soldier is a waste pro-
duct : he eats, and generally eats very hear-
tily, of what he does not produce; he has
to be carried on somebody else’s back, and
mostly he runs to meat and is a heavy-
weight ; and at his own job he appears to be
none the better for putting in the complete
12 months at presenting arms, instead of
devoting 11 of them to growing potatoes, or
even measuring out ribbon at the haber-
dashery counter. His job is a poor one to
hire a man to do, anyway. The sane citi-
zen doesn’t usually hire a large, meaty per-
son to roam over his premises and beat off
sinners who have designs on his wife and
daughters; he usually has hopes of being
able to attend to that little job himself. If
the occasion arises, and he finds he can’t
do it, he mostly laments that he had for
father a “Comrade” Giles, who didn’t be-
lieve in training to meet such possibilities.
There are, besides, some jobs in which a
self-respecting man must take a hand him-
self, whether he has hired help or not. Even
if it were the fashion to have a hired
chucker-out to protect the domestic hearth,
he wouldn’t be much of a citizen who would
whistle up the functionary with the order —
“Here, there’s a savage ravishing my daugh-
ter ! xVttend to him, please!” Even if he
did so he would have to take the awkward
chance of finding out that, at the very mo-
ment when he was wanted, the hired func-
tionary had learned that his own hearth was
also in trouble, wherefore he wasn’t avail-
able for any job but that.
“Comrade” Hodge and “Comrade” Giles
and the other “comrades” profess, however,
to see no difference between citizen defence
and hired defence. It is all “militarism”
and all wicked. It will, no doubt, be impos-
sible to convince these “comrades” that they
are wrong; because from their point of view
no defence training at all is necessary. Those,
however, who think that it is better to be
safe than sorry, or too dead to be even
sorry, will be able to recognise a vast differ-
ence between the two, apart altogether from
the costliness of the hiring system; and they
will see that it is sheer imbecility to-rake up
the old objections to hired bludgery and
hurl them at the modern, self-respecting
plan of universal self-defence. Nevertheless,
if “Comrades” Hodge and Podge can go bail
for every possible enemy in the world, white,
yellow and black; if they can guarantee that
neither these possible enemies nor these pos-
sible enemies’ sons will ever set unfriendly
foot in this country or be cantankerous out-
side of it; if, in short, “Comrades” Hodge and
Podge can prove beyond the last possibility
of doubt that all of a sudden all the peoples
of the world will leave off doing the things
thev have been doing since the first chapter
of Genesis, or thereabouts, then we may be
prepared to agree with the “comrades’’ that
defence training of any sort is a waste and
unnecessary from the big point of view,
though from various smaller ones there
should still be numerous items in its favor.
But since the “comrades” can’t vouch for
even one small yellow person or so much
as one large black coon, and since the Ger-
man Bill probably wouldn’t know either
Hodge or Podge if lie met them, and since,
so far from showing any disposition to leave
off being unfriendly, every other nation is
preparing as hard as it can to be as un-
friendly as it can, the “comrades” can’t
reasonably be hurt if they are treated with
the same utter disregard as the wise man
has for the other gentleman who has an
uncle in Fiji, and who tells an equally in-
credible yarn concerning the distant relative.
The “comrades” ask for exemption from ser-
vice on the grounds of “conscientious
scruples.” The Bulletin has a profound
disrespect for the conscientious scruple
which throws a double job on to some other
man, and this evasion of military training
and service is that sort of scruple. It is all
very well for a man to say that his con-
science tells him he is right; but if he can’t
produce one solid argument to back his con-
science up, and if what his conscience says
is right all history says is wrong, then the
tender consideration we give to that
brand of conscience the better. There is
such a thing as mistaking cussedness for
conscience.
* * * *
In any case, the miners, of Broken Hill
ought to be the last people in the Common-
wealth to hang a halo round the heads of
these law-breaking recalcitrants. They call
themselves the stalwarts among the union-
ists of Australia, and have nothing but con-
tempt for those who take the advan-
tages of unionism without contributing to its
upkeep in money or time. One can easily
imagine the answer they would give to the
man who ventured to plead his conscientious
scruples against joining a union; and their
comment upon the argument that labor
organisation was unnecessary, and a mere
incentive to attack, would be one long blast
of scorn. For the man who sets up his own
alleged “conscientious scruples” against the
will and judgment of the majority, they have
but one 'word, the bitterest word in their
vocabulary—“ Scab!” Are these the men
for democratic unionists to make heroes and
martyrs of?
PREFERENCE TO NON-UNIONIST
EMPLOYERS.
The position which Prime Minister Fisher
and some of his colleagues have taken up in
the matter of the Queensland elections, is ap-
parently that union leaders can do no wrong,
and that they must be supported even when
the difficulty of squaring their actions with
the Labor policy is well-nigh insuperable. It
is an interesting situation, but at the same
time it may lead to very unfortunate develop-
ments. Andrew Fisher, and at least one of
his colleagues—the man whose department
is so late with the delivery of the letters —
have now identified themselves about as fully
as they possibly can with the policy of the
late lamented General. Strike. The Post-
master-General has even promised to give
preference, in the handing out of Federal
billets, to men who were “victimised” as the
result of that defunct unpleasantness. The
Queensland State Labor party has pinned
its hopes of success to the chance of secur-
ing public approval of its famous hold-up at
Brisbane, and as far as it is possible for one
man to do so, Fisher stakes the chances of
the Federal Labor party on the same gamble.
Considering how much of the Labor party’s
success depends on the votes of sympathisers
from outside the unions, this may prove a
very bad case of throwing good money after
bad. In the past the Federal Labor party has
achieved victory in Queensland, while the
State Labor party, following more violent
and less diplomatic methods, has consist-
ently stood for defeat. This may be due in
part to the fact that the Federal electorates
are laid out, as far as possible, according to
population, while the State ones have, in the
past, been laid out anyhow, yet the erratic
State method hasn’t always favored Tory-
ism. Thus, at last election, 1854 electors at
Leichhardt returned Labor member llard-
acre, and 1599 returned Collins at Burke,
while Barnes stood for 5659 at Bulimba,
Denham for 3650 at Oxley, and Appel for
3695 at Albert. The system has some-
times hit Labor’s foes as well as
its friends. In the circumstances, the
methods of State Labor, as compared
with those of Federal Labor, must be held
as part of the reason why the party can
carry the State in an Australian sense, and
has never shown the slightest prospect of
carrying it in a local sense. The Queensland
State Labor party has embodied more
quarrels, and developed more dissensions,
and expelled more alleged heretics than all
the other State Labor parties combined, and
this internal riot has always been against it.
When the Federal Prime Minister needlessly
'identifies himself with the lpcal methods, and
the local failures, aiid the men who must be
held responsible for both, he is doing some-
thing that may wreck Labor in the larger
sphere without doing it much good in the
smaller one.
* * * *
The General Strike stood for various
theories which the Labor party, as a whole,
can’t afford to endorse. It was a fierce and
utterly gratuitous attack on the principle
of Arbitration for, which the party toiled so
long and earnestly in other days, and which
is embedded in State and Federal platforms
alike. The original cause of dispute had
actually been, sent to the Arbitration Court
when Coyne and his colleagues rushed into
wholesale industrial war. It was hardly
possible for any set of leaders to scorn their
own alleged principles more completely, or
turn their backs more affably on their own
professed policy. Possibly, in their haste,
they didn’t wait to remember what their pro-
fessed policy was. Incidentally, but as a
matter of necessity, because one aberration
leads to another, they set up the policy of
Preference to Non-Union Employers. The
General Strike was a call to all unionists to
dron their tools and leave in the lurch those
employers who gave preference to unionists.
It didn’t matter that the unionist employer
might have paid Union wages, and observed
union conditions, and given no cause of
offence whatsoever. When the General Strike
commenced, the rule was laid down that he
was liable to be ruined--or that a vigorous
attempt might be made to ruin him —at any
moment, simply because he , was a unionist
employer. Meanwhile the non-unionist em-
ployer, whose men couldn’t be called out by
the Strike Committee, got all the work that
was going. He received all the preference
that the unions could give him. As a side
issue, the General Strike stood for minority
rule, and minority rule is the great evil
which the Labor party has endeavored to
put down ever since a Labor party was first
heard of. All the long struggle to abolish
plural votes, property qualifications for voters
and members, property-elected Upper Houses,
and the like, has been directed to the secur-
ing- of plain, honest, majority control. In
Brisbane the policy of practical starvation
plainly didn’t appeal to the majority; hence
the swift collapse when Denham’s minions
took possession of the city. There might be
a majority for the Labor platform on which
Industrial Arbitration figures so promin-
ently—there certainly ought to be —but that
is quite another story.
* * * *
When the strike faded out it was claimed
that all employers, including those unionist
employers who had been penalised simply
because they were unionist employers, should
take back all their old employees without
question. If they had managed to fill up in
part with men who adhered honestly to the
Arbitration plank of the Labor platform,
they were expected to discharge these men to
make room for those who had thrown this
essential feature of the platform overboard.
The strikers, or backsliders, or what-
ever they might be called, who did
not get back under these conditions
are described as being “victimised.”
And the Federal Postmaster-General
promises to give preference, in the matter of
Federal employment, to the “victimised” —in
other words, to the less fortunate of the anti-
Arbitrationists who broke away from the
Labor platform. It was the kindly act of a
man who was filled with the best intentions.
Yet it implied putting some sort of a ban on
applicants for employment whose sin was
that they attempted to walk the chalk line
of Labor principle. It committed the Aus-
tralian Government more or less to approval
of the anti-Labor policy of the General
Strike, and that wasn’t what Australia
created the Labor Government for. It com-
mitted the Government, more or less, to the
General Strike policy of Preference to Non-
Union Employers, and that is a dangerous
thing to be associated with. It was no part
of the bargain, when Australia voted Labor
at the Federal election of 1910, that it
should thereby pledge itself to approve of the
wild doings of Coyne and co., who are quite
outside Federal politics. The Federal Labor
Government is Australian property, and
there is no evidence that the vast mass of
Labor sympathisers in the five southern and
western States ever contemplated that their
chance of ruling the Commonwealth should
be gambled with because their leader chose
to associate himuelf and his Ministry and
the political credit of his party with a purely
local row or slrndy in his own particular
State. Prime Minister Fisher lias need-
lessly challenged everybody throughout the
Commonwealth, who doesn’t approve of the
anti-Arbitration and General Strike methods
of a small crowd of State politicians and
others in one corner of the country, to with-
draw his support. The result may be right
enough, for anything may happen at election
time, and the man who prophesies about
election results is a greater fool than the one
who backs a horse. But it is an absurd risk,
all the same.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Some Reflections on the Great Shipping
Disaster.
From The Bulletin’s Master Mariner :
The 1600 unfortunates who went down with the
Titantic last week represent so many fresh units
added to the toll which Adipose, in his money-mad-
ness, is forever taking' of human life. Every year,
about this time, the ice around Greenland begins to
break up, and the bergs and floes are borne south-
ward by the Arctic current along the east coas(; of
N. America. Cape Race, near which the Titanic
was lost, is notoriously full in the path of the peril-
ous “Arctic Drift.” The spring trip across the
Atlantic could be made without the remotest danger
from ice if the vessels only kept further south. But
that would make the trip longer—perhaps as much
as two or three days longer—and where the mam-
moth modern liner is concerned, every superfluous
hour at sea stands for a small fortune lopped off the
dividends of the company to which it belongs. The
skipper of the Titanic had been warned by the Chief
mariner of the French steamship Touraine of the
danger ahead. He disregarded that warning, and
tore furiously on because it was his business so to do.
The great shipping cos. which exploit the Atlantic
have no use for the nervous, finicking skipper who
slows down to a crawl in a fog, or gropes his way
cautiously in the presence of drifting ice. In any
case that type of official would be out of place in
such an environment. So long as the money-saving
Cape Race route is adhered to, his position is that
it is no less safe, or to put ft another way, no more
murderously risky, to drive right on, than it is to
potter shudderingly amid the mostly invisible perils
of the locality.
It has been clearly established that the Titanic
was short of lifeboats. Quite possibly, as
alleged by the London Daily Mail, the ,lost
vessel carried 100 per cent, more boat ac-
commodation than is insisted on by . the
British Board of Trade.” But the Board of Trade’s
requirements, in this line, are in the nature of a
ghastly joke, According to the Merchant Shipping
Act (which was passed in an era when the idea of
legislating for ships over 10,000 tons appeared ludi-
crous), passenger vessels must be provided with life-
boats according to tonnage and tonnage only. The
Titanic was 45,000 tons. Here is her position as
regards boats under the Act: —
Cubic feet.
.(1.) Boat capacity for vessel over 10,000
tons, = . . • • • • • • 5500
(2.) Plus one-fourth (rafts, etc), = .. 1375
6875
(3.) Minus one-eighth, being a bulk-
headed steamer = .. .. • • 688
6187
Now, 6187 cubic feet divided by TO = 618 passengers
provided for. If there were emigrants aboard the
regulations would be more . stringent, and would
have insisted on provision being made for 960 per-
sons. Actually, the Titanic carried 2000 souls, and
even then was not full. As a result of the collision
with the berg many boats were stove in, and many
more were, of course, swamped in the launching. Con-
ditions have to be almost unnaturally favorable for
a wrecked ship to keep aIT her'boats intact to the
last. Thus, even if, as the Daily Mail claims, the
Titanic provided 100 per cent, more boat accommo-
dation than she need have, it would only represent, at
an outside figure, accommodation for 1920 persons,
and that does not take the factor of damaged or
ruined boats into consideration.
Last week’s horror will not have been wholly in
vain if it serves to screech in the ears of the world
the necessity of forcing the shipping companies to
make better provision for saving fives at sea. Many
a passenger-carrying steamer on the Australian coast
is a death-trap in its own small way, by reason of
its inadequate boat supply. Not that this class
of craft violates the law. On the contrary, it ob-
serves it to the ultimate letter. The tonnage is
reckoned by the tables —the one-fourth added, and
the one-eighth subtracted, and if there isn’t room for
everyone on board when the sum is done —well,
there is the moral support of the Board of Trade to
come ashore on. _ . .
A news item which the nigger-employing shipping
cos. would do well to note and inwardly digest ran
as follows: —
“Immediately after the impact every man leaped
to his post, and most of the boats were quickly
launched. The men behaved gallantly, and went
down with the ship.”
A great standby is the Caucasian sailor in time of
awful peril. On past form, the Lascar and Seedy-
boy brand of seaman would, in similar circumstances,
have leaned, not to his post, but to the place where
he considered he would have the best chance of
saving his discolored hide. In such an event, not even
the women and chidren would have been saved. In
fact, the holocaust would have been complete.
The Federal Capital and the Ma State.
Grievance.
The refusal of the N.S.W. Government to>
surrender to the Commonwealth a bit of
land for a Naval College at Jervis Bay (the
skimpy Federal territory being quite inade-
quate) has led to a complication. Tim-
other State Governments, it seems, are being;
appealed to ip order that “some uniform;
course of action in connection with Comr
monwealth properties”—in other words, some-
uniform grumpiness and cantankerousness;
towards the Australian Government —maijr
be arranged. Unless the other State Gov-
ernments have very short memories, they will
enthusiastically bid Attorney-General Hol-
man, who is the moving spirit in this
matter, to depart pnd dwell amid the blos-
soms of Gehenna. The trouble began when
N.S.W., after inviting the other States to
federate, refused to go on with its own
Federal movement unless every State except
itself was disqualified as a possible site for
the Federal capital. Its people accepted the


Federal Constitution by a far larger majority
than was specified in the agreement that
N.S.W. made with the neighboring States,
but by a shabby lie, and a shameless breach
of faith, and an unclean piece of treachery,
that N.S.W. majority was disqualified
by its own legislature, and then the
Federal capital concession was demanded
before any further business would be done.
In fact, the mother State insisted on being
bribed by its allegedly poorer sisters. It
was an act which should have caused every
man connected with it to be disqualified for
political life for ever. Then the N.S.W.
Government, having secured the sole right
of supplying the site for a Federal capital,
claimed the right to select the territory,
and to cut it down so small that Australia
will have a poor, mean, contemptible metro-
polis for all time. The Federal territory
will be the property of all the six States,
and the N.S.W. Government now appeals to
the five disqualified States to assist it in
keeping their common property as small and
as unprofitable as possible. Seeing that it
is wholly through the selfish and unprin-
cipled action of the N.S.W. Parliament that
the row over the Federal capital terri-
tory is exclusively a row between the Com-
monwealth and N.S.W., the other States
would be well-advised to let the two com-
batants argue the point beiwmen themselves.
The attitude of Holman and co. is (1) that
N.S.W. claimed, as an imperishable privilege
attaching to it in its Ma State capacity, to
supply the land required for Federal pur-
poses, the other States being too contempti-
ble to share the privilege; and (2) that a
bitter wrong is done to Ma when the said
Federal land is asked for. It seems a case
in which the pitiably mean Ma Government
should fight its owii battle.
♦ ——■
How Gregory Wade Arose in His Might
and Disqualified Almost Everybody.
One day last week there stood up on end
something of no real importance, and this
apparition divided the human race into three
categories. Also, he declared that the third
category was no good and didn’t count. It
wasn’t God who did this, though, by the
size of the contract, one might have had a
suspicion to that effect. Nor was it the
Archangel Michael, nor Satan, nor Kaiser
William, with all the German legions be-
hind him, nor the largest whale or the big-
gest elephant, nor any other really moun-
tainous institution. It was just Gregory
Wade, one-time Premier of New South
Wales. Thus said Gregory:—
A man MUST be either an unqualified Laborite,
an unqualified Liberal, or an unqualified humbug.
So the great rule is laid down that all politi-
cal wisdom lies between Gregory Wade aqd
James McGowen. In combination they
know all things, likewise they embody the
political heaven and the political earth,
and a man who doesn’t think as Wade or
McGowen thinks is a man who doesn’t
think at all. He may think he thinks—in
other words, he may hang around thinking
what _ he thinks are thoughts—but*
that is his mistake, for Wade has
said so. All the boundaries of politi-
cal think—its length and breadth and
height and depth and possibilities—have
been measured by G. Wade, and he compre-
hends his own great mind and McGowen’s
boundless intellect, and everything outside
of these is disqualified. Yet, strange and in-
surrectionary as it may seem, there are
people who regard McGowen as a has-been,
and Wade as a never-was, and both of them
as very ordinary calamities, and who refuse
to be shut in by their mental limitations, or
to regard their views as embodying all the
political possibilities of the age. There are
people, for instance, who believe in honest
finance, though both Wade and McGowen
have the borrowing craze badly. There are
people who fancy that something might be
done in the way of opening the Closed Ports,
and giving the producers the shortest possible
access to the sea for their exports; and
people who think there might be other big
seaport cities in N.S.W. besides Sydney, and
that the State might be sole ground landlord
of these cities, even though that might clash
with the interests of the private landlords
of Sydney, for the sake of whom Wade and
McGowen seem willing to postpone all other
considerations. Here and there folk may
be found who have lost faith in the Wade-
McGowen idea that any part of N.S.W.
which is too remote from Sydney to trade
profitably through that city should be simply
allowed to become a desert, even if it has a good
Port close alongside, because in the Waoe-
McGowe_n gospel, trade with any place save
Sydney is accursed. Now and then there
transpires a person who has heard of Aus-
tralia, and who can’t accept the theory that
the first duty of a State Premier is to regard
our great country as an enemy, "nd to snarl
like an embittered cat on the roof at the Aus-
tralian Government and all its works. In
fact, taking one thing with another, it is a
question if the future of the country doesn’t
lie with the people whom the important little
Wade professes to disqualify. These people
really presume to revard ex-Premier
Gregory as a small and dreary sham, and
Present-Premier James as being, in all the
larger matters of politics, a mere copy of
Gregory. They go so far as to decline to
be obliterated on the mere remark or asser-
tion of a fallen politician, who never
amounted to much before he fell. In fact, if
the fallen politician raises too much dust,
they may yet take a half-day off and obliter-
ate him.
A Vast Fuss About a Fmall Matter.
“Henri Singemoine” speaks :
When the Federal Government first enacted that all
press comments on Federal election contests should,
during a certain period, be signed bv the writer, the
public sniffed audibly as men sniff in the presence of
an O’MALLEYism. The popular idea was that the new
ukase was too futile to be worth bothering about. A
few public servants might find their journalistic oc-
cupations gone, it was thought; a business or pro-
fessional man, here and there, might consider that
the publication of his political views would preju-
dicially affect his income, and so retire from the
ranks of free-lancery; but, for the rest, the im-
pression was that the newspaper world would stand
pretty much where it did. Apparently, however, the
Fisher Government builded considerably better than
the public knew. A factor of the situation which
the casual observer had omitted to take into consid-
eration was the congenital toryism of Australia’s
“Liberal” press. According to the S. M. Herald :
“The always serious issues of an election are, in
future, to suffer maimed rites. The press, in its
leading columns, is compelled to silence. . .It is the
loss which the public sustains by the; silencing of
public comment that is the outstanding menace of
the new law. It is not too much to claim that the
bulk of the public learns its politics from newspaper
report and comment. . . . That is political education
of incalculable value to the public. But the Com-
monwealth Act proscribes it,” etc.
The above was written in reference to the Werriwa
contest. Unless it is the most dishonest variety of
guff, designed to win sympathy and inflame the pub-
lic mind against the Fisher administration on false
pretences, it means that the Herald, at least, does
not propose to discuss the Werriwa issues in its edi-
torials or elsewhere after May 6 next. And if it is
compelled to silence in its leading columns" as re-
gards Werriwa, next month, it will obviously be in
the same position as regards the whole of Australia
at the general election which is due next year.
Which, considering the vast army of old women,
snobs, Wowsers, Empire Leaguers and other persons
of indifferently-developed mentality, who take their
political opinions holus-bolus from organs of the
Herald stamp, may be fairly said to be right into
the hands of the Labor party.
The idea at the back of the sore-headed sheet's
attitude is, of course, that the public regards its
leading articles as inspired messages that have been
shot down from aloft, already engraved on tables of
stone or what not. In the Herald’s opinion, the
pronouncements become so utterly valueless as not to
be worth publishing the moment it is established by
means of the printed word, that they are the work
of human beings. It is perhaps unnecessary to re-
mark that such a view is, in these enlightened days,
absurd, not to say imbecile. The public has long
got away from the old “Thunderer” convention of
half a century ago. The modern newspaper reader
is not under the delusion that the turgid efforts
which he absorbs daily, with the matutinal hen
fruit and so on, emanate from a god, or anything
faintly resembling one. All the average “Liberal”
asks of his daily paper is that it shall supply him
from time to time with reasonably plausible matter
(yarns about ruined marriage ties, Petriana out-
rages, wronged Eurasian ladies, and the like) for use
in the political discussions which rage so tirelessly
in bar-parlors, trains, trams, and other spots where
folks foregather with time on their hands. Of these
dialectical props the average “Liberal” is now seem-
ingly about to be deprived. No doubt the blow will
fall with stunning force on a huge class ; in fact, it
is not too much to say that it will render thousands
of right-thinking persons politically inarticulate. All
those people who would never have suspected that the
tiger Socialism was tearing at their vitals had not
the anti-Labor papers mentioned it to them every
morning for some years, will be at a loss to discover
workable menaces. But the tragedy is mitigated by
the circumstance that henceforth a number of people
who never before conceived an idea of their own on
political questions may be led to think for them-
selves.
Meanwhile a useful lesson outstands from the pre-
vailing atmosphere of gloqm. The mere fact that
the S. M. Herald should have entertained, for how-
ever brief a space, the thought of foregoing all com-
ment on a Federal election in preference to disclosing
the fact that its leader-writers were mortal men, with
names and addresses, demonstrates more tellingly
than any amount of argument could, what an in-
tolerantly Conservative journal this alleged organ of
“progressive Liberalism” is. Change appals it.
According to its way of thinking, the time is never
ripe for anything. It sees intolerable hardship, hid-
eous possibilities and other fantods in the least de-
parture from the customary routine. Just as it is
now prepared, by its own showing, to give up for lost
a large part of its business of discussing political
affairs, because it is required to make its comments
under slightly altered conditions, so it cried in panic
that all was over when Protection, Arbitration,
and a hundred other measures whose desirability no
sane modern questions, were mooted. There is
seemingly no limit to the Herald’s capacity for
despair in the face of new —though quite innocuous—
situations: a fact which genuine progressives should
bear in mind when the next cry of dread and warn-
ing emanates from this quarter.
The Noisy Rebels Who Ought to be in Gaol.
The other day when Tom Mann urged the
British soldiery not to shoot down the strik-
ing colliers, if they should be called upon to
do so, there was a gust of scandalised pro-
test from Law’n’order in general, and the
leaders of the Conservative party ;in particul-
lar, and the wordy little ex-publican presently
found himself in a prison cell on a charge of
seditious conduct. Assuming that the pathe-
tically ineffectual Thomas, whose periodi-
cal yaps in advocacy of chain-bursting, and
so on, are among the broad jests of indus-
trialism —assuming that this leader who leads
nobody, and influences none but the hope-
lessly foolish —deserves, say, a week for his
efforts to stir up strife, and cause people to
defy the law of the land, it is a nice problem
to estimate just how many years’ hard labor
Bonar Law, Sir Edward Carson, Kipling,
and the rest of the anti-Home Rule revolu-
tionaries have earned by their recent efforts
in the same direction. The British soldiery
seemingly treated the suggestions of Mann
with stolid indifference. There is no evidence
that so much as one company has agreed,
that, in the event of trouble, it will flout the
orders of its commanding officers. The Bel-
fast Orange fanatics, on the other hand, in-
spired and encouraged by Bonar Law,
leader of his Majesty’s Opposition, and
Edward Carson, ex-Solicitor-General for
Ireland, and similar public men of weight
and authority, are, at the present moment,
hard at it buying ammunition and drilling
with the acknowledged intention of offering
armed and gory resistance to the establish-
ment of Home Rule. This policy which the
Irishmen of Ulster are being vehemently
urged by a number of criminal firebrands of
the Bonar Law and Carson stamp, to
oppose, “if necessary at the point of the
bayonet,” has been declared for by an over-
whelming majority of all creeds and" classes
in Ireland. It was made an issue by ,the
Tories, accepted as such by the Liberals and
enthusiastically affirmed in England, Scot-
land and Wales at the last general elections.
Leaders of great parties, ex-Cabinet Minis-
ters and writers of patriotic doggerel have
no more right in the circumstances to talk
of opposing it by armed resistance than Tom
Mann has to encourage lawlessness in con-
nection with coal-strikes and the like. In
fact, the guilt of the former is greater in
exact ratio to their superior power of inflam-
ing the revolutionary passions of the mob.
By rights, these Tory demagogues should be
handed prolonged periods in gaol, and it'
there wasn’t one law for the rich and an-
other for the poor they would already be
doing hard labor at Dartmoor. Of course,
they will do nothing of the kind —more’s the
pity. It is more unusual for an adult drome-
dary to pass through the eye of a sandfly
than for the British police authorities to
appreciate that men who wear silk hats and
belong to the right clubs can, on occasion,
be more dangerous enemies of law, peace and
good government than the frothiest orator
who ever whooped at a strike meeting.
♦
Typothetse.
A printer’s devil sends this story:—
To tne uninitiated tne title of this article will
convey little meaning, but to the printing trade of
Melbourne it will possess a familiar sound. It is
tne name of an association wnicn nas recently been
formed by the Master Printers of Melbourne, and it
was borrowed, it is understood, from the United
States, where associations with similar objects have
tlourisned exceedingly. A very harmless title in
itself —the literal translation is ’‘Typesetters.’' The
Objects of the association are by no means equally
innocent. Briefly put, they utterly revolutionise the
conditions of the printing trade. They kill com-
petition, and they make the printing trade a close
union.
Why such a title was chosen is best known to the
organisers, whose efforts have been so successful that,
although Typothet® is but a few months old, it
already embraces amongst its members 8b per cent, of
the Melbourne master printers. From this it might
appear that Typothetae was from the very outset
looked upon with universal favor. This was not tne
case, but where disinclination to join the movement
was met with, as happened very frequently, the
“suaviter in modo” was replaced by the “fortiter in
re.”
This much by way of introduction, and now for
an explanation of the objects and the working of
Typothetae. Technically, it has no membership—
that is, no one appends his signature to any docu-
ment. A printed paper sets out that the master
printers agree to certain conditions. There are no
pehalities for non-observance, but anyone not comply-
ing witli the conditions of membership “will be
dealt with.” These are the exact words of as ex-
traordinary a document as was ever concocted. It
does not say if disobedience is to be punished with
a hit on the head by a sling shot, if the delinquent
is to be fined, or fired out. He is simply “to be
dealt with.”
Under former conditions there was healthy compe-
tition in the printing trade. There was opportunity
for brains and ability, and a young firm could gradu-
ally work itself up to a good position. All this is
a thing of the past. Competition has been rendered
impossible, and there is no hope for a young firm.
The existing firms have surrounded themselves with
barbed wire entanglements, which neither the poor,
unfortunate public nor the unfortunate beginner can
hope to scramble through.
On joining Typothet® the printer furnishes the
secretariat with a list of his customers, and, under
separate sealed cover, with the prices that he has
been obtaining from them for certain specified classes
of work. For evermore these customers are “sealed”
to him just as wives are “sealed” to the Mormons.
No other printer can take an order from the “sealed”
firm under the original printer’s price. The cus-
tomer is not consulted. He is simply “sealed” to
the printer who has registered him as his property.
Chapter ll.—The customer goes to his printer with,
say, an order for 5000 theatrical hangers, for which
he formerly paid £2 10s. a thousand. The printer
says, “My price is now £3 10s. a thousand,” and
he notifies the secretariat. The customer, naturally
dissatisfied, goes to another printer, only to find that
a little higher price is asked. It is compulsory for
a second or a third printer to quote a little more
than the original printer.
Another illustration, which is full/' explained in
the document referred to: A customer has, say, a
big order for printing. It may be a book, a price-
list, or anything else. He goes to a printer for a
price, and is told it will be given next day. Forth-
with the printer must telephone to the secretariat
to be registered for the job, and down he goes:
“A.B. registered for such and such a job at 11 a.m.”
A second printer is approached. He is registered
similarly, say at 11.30 a.m., and a third, may be,
at 11.45 a.m. The next day the three printers
meet at the secretariat, and the first printer puts in
his price. The other two printers must quote over
it. They cannot quote the same price, or below
it. There is provision, however, for examining the
first printer’s cost sheet, and power to increase his
quotation if his calculations are found to be too low.
The customer is under the very natural delusion that
Several printers are competing for his order, whilst in
reality they are domg nothing of the sort.
Provision is made for defraying the expenses of
the secretariat by certain percentages. Successful
tenderers must contribute 1 j per cent, on the
amount of the order to the general fund. Smaller
percentages are specified on other transactions. All
this is set out in the specious document which has
been referred to.
Now comes something which is not even bmted
at in cold print. How were unwilling printers
forced to join T.ypothet®? Manv were forced. Of
this there is not the slightest doubt, but of course
there was no direct influence —no sling-shot or anv-
thing of that kind. Printers must have material.
They cannot print without ink. thev cannot scatter
their work wireless fashion in the air. Under the
present circumstances a non-member finds he cannot
execute orders. Somehow or other, the paper he
wants is not in stock: it will not be here for six
months, and goodness knows what the price will be
then. Anyone can read between the lines. Hints
are thrown out, and experience soon shows that
certain hints must be heeded. Of course, one good
turn deserves another, and the prices of certain de-
scriptions of printing material have already been
put up by 7i per cent. It is set out in a circular
that this increase is due to the coal strike in Eng-
land, and, to make matters doubly sure, the invoices
are stamped with a notice of 7\ per cent, increase on
the prices previously listed.
“Harrison O.” : The Hampden and Heytes-
bury Agricultural Society, which hangs out
near Camperdown (VL.), where the big
estates are, has passed a motion deciding to
oppose the proposed duty on imported man-
ures, because (according to the Argus re-
port) “Mr. J. Harding said that the farm-
ing community wanted these things as
cheaply as it could get them.” Seems to. me
there is no limit to the number of things
that Farmer Haybag wants as cheaply as
he can get them. He wants cheap roads,
paid for by someone else, and cheap circuses
in the form of Government-subsidised agri-
cultural shows; he also wants specially
cheap fares when he visits one of the afore-
mentioned circuses. The anti-Socialistic
backbone of the country wants cheap advice,
supplied by Socialistic officials, whose
salaries are paid largely by the urban tax-
payer, and cheap seed, purchased by the
State, and cheap money supplied by a Social-
istic State bank. Furthermore, Mr. Haybag
wants cheap labor, and, in consequence, has
a permanent grievance against the State,
which compels him to send his kids to school,
when their time could be spent much more
usefully in milking. He has, moreover, a
grievance against the Lord for not having
invented a superkid, capable of milking more
strenuously, living on whatever is discarded
by the pigs, and doing without sleep. His
grievance against the Rural Workers, who>
are asking for a reasonable wage and fixedl
hours of labor, is much too large to squeeze
into a paragraph and much too blasphemous:
to pass the Religious Editor, anyhow. And
now the horny-handed scion of the soil has a
brand-new grievance. At the mere sugges-
tion that he should buy Australian manure
(end, up to the present, I have not heard it
stated that manure is one of the things that
Australia Can’t Produce) instead of the
imported article, he falls back against a
roll of Socialistic wire-netting and hollers
after the manner of Freedom when Kosci-
usko fell or was pushed, or something of the
sort. Still with it all, Farmer Haybag has
two real grievances if he only knew it. He
ought to have his railway carriage made
cheap by being allowed to send his goods for
export to the nearest port, instead of having
to send them to Melbourne whether that
place is handy or not. And he ought to have
Cheap Rents. He wants Cheap Rents badly.
In fact, he requires Cheap Rents like the
very dickens. As a natural corollary, lie:
wants a Cheap Landlord.
4.
If the political Liberal female could only
be brought to realise that the truth shouldl
be told occasionally for a change, or that
a lie should be plausible enough to avoid!
derision, or that an instructor of the people-
should at least have a trace of information:
about his or her subject, things would be
a lot pleasanter. These reflections are in-
spired by an extract from a speech delivered!
recently at Warrnambool (Vic.) by a nicely
dressed female personage, who apparently
devised her facts as she went along:—
Their seventh plank was to maintain a White Aus-
tralia. They wanted to avoid having a yellow Aus-
tralia . .. The Labor party had this plank also, but
were not carrying it out.
Surely the yarn that it is the party of
Bruce Smith and the Argus and the
Queensland sugar planters and Kanaka
Cowley that has toiled incessantly to keep
back the colored invasion, while the Labor-
ites have looked on like Gallio, unconcerned,
was meant for an audience of aboriginal
infants.
♦
The Conference of Municipal Delegates: acs;
to a Greater Melbourne scheme has finally
been delivered of a report, which Premier
Weary has condescended to state will be of
assistance to him in drawing up the Bill he
will present to Parliament when he is rested.
The delegates decided that the existing tup-
penny-ha’penny councils were not to be
diminished or minimised in any way, but a new
body, consisting of one delegate for each
10,000 inhabitants —about 55 in all —should
control water supply, sewerage, gas, tram-
ways, rivers, fire extinction, electricity sup-
plies, weights and measures and cemeteries.
Such comparatively insignificant matters as
markets, pure food laws, noxious trades,,
housing, hospitals, public health, etc., are to
be left in the palsied hands of the subordi-
nate councils as heretofore. The chairman
of the new body is to be salaried, but must
not be a councillor. Its rating power is to
be limited to 2s. 6d. in the fl, as with the
existing councils ; and, finally, it is to have
“ample borrowing powers.” Certainly! By
all means!! This is such a fool of a report,
and deals so distantly and triflingly with a
large live question, that the best thing
Weary can do is to use it for a head-rest.
A Greater Melbourne Council, to be effective,
and to avoid the “committee” farce that
obsesses the present City Council, must be
smaller in numbers, but immensely larger in;
powers. It must deal with all subjects that
concern citizens generally, whether they
dwell in St. Kilda or Brunswick. It must
be authorised and instructed to take over alii
services, so that the subordinate councils
whose incapacity has made it necessary, may
have a long, complete rest. And, finally, the
20 or 30 members should be paid, and should
be elected on an adult suffrage basis. The
wider the constituency the greater the confi-
dence, and the higher the wage the better
the service. The laborer is worthv of his
hire, and to offer him insufficient hire'or no
hire at all is either to sweat him or to invite
him to pay himself.
4
The Preference to Unionists idea crops up
in remarkable places. But a whole lot of
the unionists don’t seem to know the animal
when they see the beast, hence the insect
escapes observation. For instance, there is,
in Victoria, a Fishmongers and Poulterers’
Association, and once a year this body has a
strike. It calls the thing a picnic, but the
fact remains that, once a year, when it is
neither Christmas nor Good Friday, nor any
other recognised public occasion, it throws ’
up its job and refuses to work. But there
are some non-union fishmongers and poul-
terers who don’t belong to the Association,
and don’t go on strike. They sell hens and
eels as usual. This makes the union angry,
and the other day a deputation called on
Premier Murray demanding that the liberty
and human rights of these free dealers
should be torn from them —that they should
be compelled to strike when the blessed and
arrogant union did—in short, that they should
be prohibited from trading on picnic day.
That haughty Tory.. Norman Bayles, in-
troduced the deputation of strikers, and Pre-
mier Murray regarded the union’s requo^ 1
as reasonable, and promised to at'end To the
Merrie England.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the end of the Middle Ages the people of Eng-
land were better housed and fed that at any subse-
quent time. —Historical fact.
The fact that Sydney restaurants can give a deal
more than London restaurants for the same money
is an indication of the higher cost of living in Eng-
land.—Sydney Telegraph.
Wide hunger walks abroad with famished
cheeks,
For nothing here is free except Freetrade,
That wears a fool mask in the face of doom.
The people go with heavy steps afraid
Of one large shadow. And its robes of
gloom
Trail ever near them. Hope forlornly seeks
Its refuge in a workhouse or a tomb.
And this is Merrie England, this the State
Whose rugged strength, in the lost days and
dead,
Battling for freedom raised an echoing cry
In all the lands. To-day she cries for bread,
Nor know r s to break the fetters of a lie
That holds her bound as in the grip of fate,
Watching her strength decay, her greatness
die.
No more her enemy in mailfed might
Presses against her. Needless are his guns,
Needless his legions mustering at the gate.
Sure as the process of the turning suns
The secret thing that works beyond his hate,
Sucking a nation’s life-blood. Crowned with
light,
Freetrade has worship, and the hour grows
late.
The children’s food the stranger takes away,
And laughter mocks the statesman’s heavy
care,
Yet speaks no prophet that the people heed.
England’s roast beef becomes another’s fare,
While a starved people and a barren creed
Cling in death-grips together. 11l the day
That for such bitter harvest sowed the seed.
Oh, land of cheapness, all too cheap the
store
Of stranger products in your shop and mart,
Yet all too dear for sons of yours to buy.
Look to your gods and gauds! Old echoes
start
Amid your ruins, and the old days cry
Loud in your ears to close the nation’s door
E’er the long folly draw the last vat dry.
Great is the force of logic! Up the slope
Of your steep thoughts ’tis surely great to
rise,
And trust each failure as a victory won.
Yet your Freetrade as seen by other eyes
Is but a hempen thing of madness spun,
The strangling horror of an easy rope
That tightens till its last grim work be done !
N.S.W.
PAT O‘MAORI.


So
I EADING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident 8
Live Stock Insurance.
TO RUM A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
To Keep Ahead of Your Opposition by
Using HARRINGTONS’ EXCLUSIVI
STAR PICTURES _!
A Complete List of All Exclusive
Films, Hi/ing: Rates and Synopsis
of the various subjects will be
sent on application to
THE LEADING CINEMATOGRAPHIC
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
fgh
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLINQTON.NZ.
International Patents and Trade
Mares. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
SHOWMEN ! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Lyric s Colonial Theatres
Direction : J. D. WILLIAMS.
World’s Famous PHOTO-PLAY PALACES.
WHERE EVERYBODY GOES.
Continuous Performances: 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
STALLS, 3d. DRESS CIRCLE, 6d.
Entire Change of Programme twice weekly,
MONDAY and THURSDAY.
Startling attractions shown at these 3 Theatres
every week, at English and American
prices of admission.
We cater specially for Ladies and Children.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attend-
ants.
Patronised by over 65,000 People weekly.
Run under the Continuous-show System, now
all the rage in England and America.
Don’t fail to see the Startling: Attractions
showing: this week at the Lyric, Colonial No. 1,
and Colonial No. 2.
They are sensations of Biographical Art, and
we guarantee them to be the most interesting
productions ever attempted in Photo-play.
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
matter. There was a great row in Bris-
bane recently, when it was found, on a cer-
tain day, that it was impossible to buy a
loaf, save by permission of the union leaders.
That was in a time of turmoil, when men
got angry and did things that they wouldn’t
have attempted in cold blood. These Mel-
bourne employers, without any strife or in-
dustrial trouble to excuse them, propose to
similarly bail up another article of food.
Why didn’t Murray swear in special con-
stables? And why didn’t he point out that
fish and fowl are articles of invalid diet,
and that, to cut them off, even for a day,
might mean suffering and even death? And
if it meant death, then the Fishmongers and
Poulterers’ Association would be a mur-
derer. And if it was a murderer, it would
naturally go to Sheol when it died. And if
it went to Sheol, amid a fearsome smell of
burnt feathers and blackened cod, nothing
could save it in all the boundless expanse
of the hereafter.
♦
“Henry H.”: Let me recommend this, cut
from a recent issue of the Sydney Tele-
graph, as the dead finish :
Speaking of the vast spaces of unpopulated land
in the Northern Territory, Mr. Cecil Darley, lately
New South Wales buying officer in England, who has
just returned to Sydney, expressed the opinion that,
although the Territory was not a white man’s coun-
try, and could never be properly and fully developed
by white people, the land should not be given over
to Chinese or Japanese labor. He considered that
the Indian coolies, being British subjects, who could
THEREFORE, be trusted, were the people for those
torrid parts. They were honest and hard-working,
and if they were introduced into the Territory to
work under white overseers, he believed that tea and
’coffee, and perhaps rubber, could be grown there.
By this means the country could be developed much
more quickly, and to greater advantage, than by
simply depending on the exploitation of the mineral
wealth.
“Therefore” is a wonderful example of logic.
Also, the dictum of Cecil Darley, fresh
from the tropical jungles of London, about
how the Territory can or cannot be worked,
naturally commands respect. But it really
seems a pity that Cecil Darley, just re-
turned from the tiger-hunt on Holborn Via-
duct, should commit himself quite so reck-
lessly about the “honest” person from India.
Kipling is supposed to know at least a
trifle concerning the Indian person, and the
reader of his books gathers the idea that
that individual is a peculator of the deepest
dvp. an unspeakable curser, and a liar of
such dimensions that Ananias panted after
him in vain.
-♦
When Arthur Griffith, N.S.W.’s Minis-
ter for Public Works, assumed office he was
amazed to. find that some of the claims for
compensation for lands resumed by the State
in connection with the Murrumbidgee irriga-
tion project had not been settled, although
the Government had been in possession for
a couple of years. He announced his inten-
tion of settling accounts right away, but
that is as far as he has got. Griffith ex-
plains the delay thus. When it became
known that resumption was to take place, a
wild gamble began, so much so that to-day
most of the speculators are unable to find
their lots and those that can find them are
demanding extortionate compensation. In
one case, an investor bought £lO,OOO worth
of land from Sam McCaugiiey, paid a de-
posit of £5OO, and now modestly claims a
trifle of £34,000 from the Government, which
is merely a profit of IfiOO per cent, on his
outlay. Griffith doesn’t quite see this in
the way he is expected to; in fact, there are
a number of things he doesn’t see. Mean-
while the howl of the speculators pours
through his keyhole with increasing volume.
“H.S.”: For unconscious humor of the very
highest class commend me to the Sydney
Telegraph’s latest remarks on the subject
of the embarrassing old Dreadnought Fund.
Consider this: —
We do not mean that a wing should be dedicated,
or that mere bricks and mortar should be set apart
as a memorial. Buildings disappear; and if the
money in question is simply absorbed into the con-
solidated revenue of the Commonwealth, there may
be nothing whatever in time to show that a sub-
stantial sum had ever been provided by this State to
help the beginnings of an Australian navy.
So far from the Dreadnought money having
been contributed “to help the beginnings of an
Australian navy,” it was provided with the
express object of slaying that movement
dead in its tracks. Every solitary donor
who disclosed his sentiments regarding Aus-
tralian defence, from Abbey Dangak, who
weighed in with £lO,OOO, down to Willy
Kelly, who coughed up but a hundredth
part of that sum, was solid on the point that
an Australian navy would be a tragically
useless affair, and that the men who were
“helping the beginnings” of it were either
madmen or malignant traitors to the holy
cause of Empire. If the blessed old Fund
is to be used for memorial purposes, it
would be seemly from every standpoint to
keep it rigidly separated from any associa-
tion with the Australian Navy. It would
be more or less appropriate to build locally
and endow with it some such institution as a
modest Home for Inebriate British Mariners ;
even if the cash only ran to a weatherboard
cottage it would be better than nothing.
But, logically, the money should go to Eng-
land—say for the purchase of a naval launch,
or the re-painting of 11.M.5. Lion, or some-
thing like that.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sinbad.”
Royal “The House of Temperley.”
Criterion “The Blue Bird.”
Adelphi “ The Sins of Society.”
Palace “ Bonnie Mary.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric .. Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Bf.lmore Markets Wirths’ Circus.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Blascheck.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR OOMfNG WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Night-Side of London.”
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Train.”
Royal “Kismet.”
Ring’s “ Tommy Atkins.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Kinemacolor Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
♦
Sydney leg-connoisseurs are brisking up,
for at long last the Real Thing, or in plain
the “Sinbad” panto., is approaching
In addition to an absolute plethora of female
loveliness, the co. is accused by the manage-
ment of possessing a “Convulsing Corps of
Comedians.” So everybody should be satis-
fied. Convulsions will begin in the audi-
torium of Her Majesty’s on Saturday night
next.
** * *
“The House of Temperley,” which was
erected some weeks ago at Sydney Royal, is
now understood to be falling. At any rate,
it is advertised as being in its last nights,
and that is equivalent to two alarming
cracks in the side wall and a general sinkage
of the foundations. The wing of the House
which this paper saw from a corner seat in
the dress circle looked likely to last longer.
Perhaps the damage is in the other wing.
;|c
Night (Madge Mclntosh) flaps her raven
garb every evening at the Criterion. The
stars, who are young and frivolous, skip
round in raiment which is about as heavy
as a few frills of atmosphere, while the
Wars gnash their gory teeth behind a closed
door. Elsie Hamilton, as Milk, is so much
taller than the jug which used to hold her
that this writer believes she met (he
water-tap and the local dairyman just be-
fore she materialised into mere flesh. Elsie
is,. therefore,. suspected of being three-parts
rainstorm (in bulk) and one'-part milk-
fall. Her price per quart (as a Housewife
observes with bitter emphasis) would be
5d., delivered at the back door. “The Blue
Bird” finally turns up in the Woodcutter’s
Cottage as. Happiness. Maeterlinck’s al-
legory of life, as a play, is heavily coated
with limelight, and beats with the modern
pulse of quick, mechanical changes. The
transformation of the Tyl’s homely living
room into a weird glimpse of fairy visions
illustrating the children’s dream, is one of
the cleverest stage tricks the J.C.W. firm
has presented to Sydney audiences.
“BONNIE MARY ” AT THE PALACE
SYDNEY.
Old Angus (Edmund Duggan) and the cheer-up
comic (Bert Bailey).
“Bonnie Mary,” the new play which the
Bert Bailey co. produced at the Palace
(Sydney) on Saturday night, is what might
be described as shandy-gaff melodrama. And
H. E. Housden, the man who mixed it, was
preoccupied when he was pouring in the
lemonade. The piece could be improved a
good deal, although in this respect it is in
no class by itself. Even the historical know-
ledge of the Sydney Telegraph could be
improved and a few improvements in
Charles Gregory Wade,
The anti-defence blitherers,
The German band that plays in front of The
Bulletin, “I See You’ve Got Your Old Brown
Hat On,”
George Pile (if he is still alive),
The Book of Revelation,
Jokook,
The marriage svstem,
Hell,
The tube skirt, and
Things generally
would be universally appreciated. “Bonnie
Mary” has no new goods to deliver. She is
the same old unwelcome little stranger who
grows up in an obscure cottage, and. some-
where about 10.30 p.m. each evening is
astounded, in a mild sort of way, to learn
that she is the* daughter of the millionaire
lord of the manor, who has just died and
hurried off stage to get the longest beer pur-
chasable with the only small change he could
find on the ducal premises. She has the
usual adventures, and keeps in the fashion
b l 7 having a “bedroom scene.” In this she
is just about to moor her gentle craft to
the flowery isle of slumber, when the heavy
man steps from behind the washstand, or
something, minus his coat and collar,
and proceeds to embarrass the lady dread-
fully. In the midst of the proceedings
Mary’s husband lobs home, and is so an-
noyed at things, that he says “My God !” in
a bottle-oh voice, and threatens to murder
D'Arcy Kelway as
Mr. “Motor” Hogg
in “The Sins of
Society ”
(Sydney
Adelphi).
the heavy man. He is only prevented from
carrying out his fell purpose by the low-
comedy personage, who transpires at the
window ledge and pots the tempestuous
Lothario through the wrist with a shot-gun.
In this scene Hastings, as the hero, and
Treloar, as the villain, do good work. But
their parts need pruning a lot; so, too, do
most of the others. When that is done, as
it probably will be before the week is out,
“Bonnie Mary” will be an interesting play of
its kind —strictly of its kind. It is doing
vigorous business.
a- * *
On Saturday night, the Novikoff troupe of
Russian dancers wliirled and howled at
Wirths’ Circus, in the old Belmore Markets,
Sydney. If the Slav expresses his honest
sentiments in his furious dances, the bomb-
throwing habit is explained. Apparently
no Russian can exhibit simple gladness ex-
cept by stamping, spinning, howling and
jumping nine feet in the air. On the same
scale annoyance must require at least two
pistols, and rage a football full of dynamite.
Sydney Tivoli these times does not seem
to acquire new turns .as quickly as it used
to. On Saturday night, Irving Sayles came
back from somewhere or other, and shed the
gloom of his countenance on the first part;
but that cannot ,be regarded as a sensational
alteration of the bill. Dayman and Franklin,
Hebrew humorists, continue to prop up the
second part in conjunction with violinist
Rinaldo, Tiny Arnold and the ball-punching
Keeley Brothers. The only other conspira-
tors who call at all loudly for mention in the
same paragraph are Fred Poplar and Tom
Dawson. (P.S.—The wonderful clothes of
Reg Wentworth are thrown in at the last
moment.)
'l'
“The Military Air Scout,” at the Colonial
2, was the most interesting J. D. Williams
picture during the first part of the week.
Though comparatively short, it contained
some realistic glimpses into future warfare,
showing the sinking of two battleships by
bombs dropped from an aeroplane, and, in
turn, the wrecking of the ’plane by a special
gun mounted on a motor. “Written in
Blood,” at the Lyric, is an interesting drama
concerning the downfall of a man who, by
false pretences and force, gains possession of
wealth, only to see the tide turn on him
shortly afterwards. “The Royal Park of
Caserta,” the park and palace of the King
of Italy, at the Lyric, and “Napoleon and
the Sentinel,” at the Colonial 1, are fea-
tures in the new programme.
* sjs * *
“5.0.5.,” the cable messages concerning
the Titanic wreck tell us, is the wireless
way of telling people that you are in dis-
tress. But this paper only . knows one
“5.0.5.,” and that is the “Sins of Society,”
which are now being washed in the blood of
the sweating hippopotamus at the Adelphi’s
neighbor, Wirths’ Circus; and it knows for
certain that the “Sins of Society” is not in
distress. For. in response to an urgent wire-
less, the Adelphi management states that the
piece would not sail for another fortnight
at the least. Then “Brought to Ruin,” a
drama of the “domestic” species, will anchor
on the premises.
% Sfc
The National Amphitheatre has achieved
the Jordane Quartette, who carol with much
art and tunefulness; Hanlev, Marguerite
and Hanley, which is not a firm of solicitors
or house agents, as the thoughtless might
imagine, but an eminent acrobatic team; and
Jack Straw, as willing a humorist as the
writer ever fled from. There are others, but
the above will do to go on with.
•i» *)»
About 8 p.m. every evening, the Sydney
trams that plunge into the darkness that lies
between the city proper and the railway sta-
tion are laden with people making for the
Blascheck-Wrigliton entertainment at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall. And somewhere about 10.30,
the same bucking and uproarious machines
rush the same people homeward, wearing the
contented look of those who have collected
their money’s worth and a bit over.
* sj-c * *
“Kismet,” the slow-moving procession
w-'th bellowdramatic interludes, is still at-
tracting the faithless to its shabby caravan-
serai, Melbourne Royal, and verily though
Mahomet has the Sword, and may also have
the Truth, the Combine has the Splosh, and
great is the comfort thereof. The story of
Hajj the beggar, who begged in front of the
Mosque of the Carpenters without let or
hindrance from the mayor of Bagdad, and
rose to affluence in a single day, only to fall
like Jokarruthers, never to hope again, wears
thinner as Time marches on its journey to
Eternity. The gorgeous haberdashery of
“Kismet” is but as snow upon the desert’s
dusty face hiding the artistic barrenness
beneath. Watching this gradual entertain-
ment, it is very easy to understand why the
Orient has been left so far behind by the
Occident. A people whose greatest burst of
speed never exceeds the average pace of a
stout and elderly tortoise, who insist upon
removing their footware and genuflecting
upon the slightest provocation, whose speech
is loaded with mixed metaphors and excess-
ively embroidered imagery, who spend all
their time squatting down except the time
they spend lying down, and who are so in-
tent upon being religious that they have no
time to be righteous—such a people must
inevitably be left behind in the race towards
efficiency. The inhabitant of Asia is
temperamentally disinclined to bog in, and
Allah, who ordereth all things aright, is
mostly on the side of him who girdeth up
his loins and boggeth in. This probably
accounts for the success of Hajj’s crusade, of
vengeance, since he is, with the exception
of the Mrs. Potiphar female, the only person
in the play who ever gets a move on. It is
likely that the Royal will remain the Mecca
of lovers of a fine spectacle, good aqting and
multitudinous gore for some time to come.
Of the shockingly droll entertainment
which transpired at Melbourne Princess’s
last Saturday there is nothing to be politely
said in unmitigated prose except that the
scenery, by J. S. Mann and the Clints, is
well done, the stage-management shows at-
tention to detail, and the acting scores a
good average. Vivian Edwards, as Herod
Steinburg, gives an easy, artistic perfor.m-
THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One man blind, the other dumb,
On the stage together come,
When they vanish at the wing
Mendelssohn’s old Song of Spring
Wailetli from a fiddle string.
Herod cut off Starman’s tongue
At the roots when he was young;
Eest poor Cairns might recognise
Him who silenced Star-man’s cries,
Herod gouged out both his eyes.
Hound about the town they walk.
If poor Starman wants to talk,
On the blind man’s arm he’ll strum
With his fingers and his thumb
In the language of the dumb.
Herod trades in damsels ripe
Whom he teaches first to type.
Herod’s clients freely pay
Cash, and take the goods away.
Thus do women go astray.
When the Song of Spring he hears
Herod quakes with craven fears,
And the villainess unkind
Whispers to his guilty mind :
“One man dumb, the other blind !
Ha ! ha!”
To his den with base design
Herod lures the heroine;
But from situations hot,
Incidental to the plot,
She escapes, degraded not.
From the amorous caress
,Of the festive villainess
(In a spicy bedroom scene,
Cross, the parson sweet and clean,
Breaks away, but not unseen.
Scandal runs George Cross to earth
In the village of his birth ;
Though the dumb and blind and halt
Swear the lady was in fault,
He is threatened with assault.
George is roped—the Lord knows why—
To the Cross of Sanctity,
But he’s rescued by his friends.
Then a thunderbolt descends,
Killing Herod. Drama ends.
Amen.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


I. Av
LHIOIISQIIAS
WWIPPt
fV*" •, . . t f \''X -V . .«* *
Schweppes’
Lime Juice
Cordial.
Prepared Solely from MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE.
Purveyors by Special Appointment
to His Majesty the King.
Head Office : 49 PALL MALL, LONDON.
Medical Men
Recommend
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
ance of an incredible German Jew, and some
of the other people who preserve an air ot
sanity under preposterous circumstances
range from strong to middling in their work.
Seemingly the Marlow exchequer will profit
by “The Night Side of London.”
** * *
Melbourne’s need for musical comedy is
being fairly well supplied by “The Girl in
the Train,” at Her Majesty’s. There is no
depth of sentimentality in the performance
of the two ladies most concerned in the
divorce-court incident, _ consequently the
artistic bronchial affection of Talleur An-
drews’s warble seems to plead in. vain for a
response. Nor is there any genial warmth
in the bustling comedy of W. S. Percy. The
fare is good enough, but it suggests boiled
leg of mutton without the caper sauce. The
memory of it soon fades from one’s heart.
At the King’s this is the third and last
week of “After Dark.” On Saturday. the
middle-aged attractions of “Tommy Atkins”
will be presented with what the advt. de-
scribes as all its original Spectacular Effects.
** * *
A change in the order of procedure of
“turns” is the only noticeable difference in
the Opera House programme since last week.
The Rickards firmament seems short of a
planet for the moment. Stars of a sort are
numerous enough, but the best of them lack
brilliancy, and are apt to linger in the
heavens when they ought to disappear five
minutes sooner. Every sort of art is fully
exploited on the variety stage, except the
beautiful and gracious art of stopping at
the exactly right time.
“KISMET”
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
R. F. Anson as
a shopkeeper.
Lily
Bray ton
as Hajj's
daughter.
The nights of Margaret Cooper’s present
season at the Athenaeum Hall will end on
Saturday of the current week, when- that
fetching little lady will also make a matinee
appearance in one of her adorable hats. Next
week she will proceed to Bendigo and Gee-
long. Meanwhile, Margaret is making good
at the least unsuitable hall that Melbourne
can provide for the purpose, whilst Scott-
Leslie fills in much time with recitations
and raconteurings of moderate quality, and
Horace Witty continues to be a light, melo-
dious baritone of comparatively tender years,
who gives the girls a treat.
* * * *
The directors of the P’ran Lyric (Vic.)
regaled their supporters last week with a
long film of “East Lynne,” which had an
innings on a city screen, and is now touring
the suburbs at great expense. As usual, the
tattered old drama was received with emo-
tion. A Western thrill, called “The Sheep-
man’s Escape,” in which the drawn gun was
a noticeable feature, was followed with fever-
ish interest,; and enthusiasm boiled over
when a comic film revealed an obese man
cavorting in a vapor bath.
A conspicuous apparition on West’s screen
in Melbourne last Saturday was Mrs. Bern-
hardt playing the faded Flossie known
to tearful young females as Camille. So
far as the present commentator can bear
witness, Sarah’s phantom acting in the part
is well and truly done, the only noticeable
difference between the mummeress of to-day
and the same lady of yore is that Age has
not improved the figure that Art used to dis-
guise. Evidently, also, she does not walk
with the cat-like grace of former days, but
she maintains an air of youthfulness and
vivacity that make her look about half her
years. Another feature of West’s pro-
gramme that should be recorded was “The
Geisha’s Love Story,” a Nipponese drama
that seethes with action produced by drink,
love and other influences.
“KISMET.”
MELB.
ROYAL.
Oscar Asche
as Hajj.
It is difficult to say just why Terry and
Lambert, at Adelaide Tivoli, score so heavily
in their Anglo-American character-sketches.
Perhaps it is that they are actor and actress
rather than mere cross-talkers. Anyway,
they have magnetism—charm. They Get
There, and leave the audience clamorous for
more. Emerson and Baldwin have been
doing their clever club-juggling again, and
there is plenty of good athletic work. The
same applies to the King’s, where also
Harvey and Morris smash much crockery
nightly, and Gus Harris reveals himself as
the serious Jew, popular in London East-
End, but unusual here. “Sinbad” has left
the Royal, much regretted, after a crowded
fortnight. He pursued diamonds even
into the lair of the fiery, untamed Roc;
and now the chorus ladies have the dia-
monds, and the box-office has the: rocks.
This pun has been carefully bottled for use
during the winter. Another departure is
that of the highly popular “Dandies” ; Hor-
ton, Walton, Millar, Calvert and Spiers;
Florence Henderson, Elsie Rosslyn and
Tessa Byrne. They have kept going in the
Exhibition Gardens all summer, and now
make a swallow-flight to build their nests in
more genial trees. At the Lyric, W. H.
Bruce scores a success with his mixture of
pictures, competitions (nail-driving, hat-
trimming and such things) and “free gifts.”
At the bigger picture shows, West’s are
starring “Carmen”; Wondergraph, a most
elaborate “George and Dragon”; and the
Empire a lurid “Lured to Paris.” These
houses have got past the pleasant-evening’s-
entertainment stage; they try now to put
up something that the stayer-away must
regret having missed.
“N.L.”: After all, when Whitman wrote
“Come, lovely and soothing death,” it was
just another way of saying, “Bier, glorious
bier.”
“Quodlibet”: Thus an itinerant Scotch
bacon-curer on the subject of pigs and tuber-
culosis and cognate subjects :
He knew he was treading on dangerous ground
when he spoke of the system of inspection of pigs
in force. As long as such strict and rigid inspection
prevailed, however, export could not be a success.
He purchased some pigs in Victoria, and no less
than 42 per cent, were rejected as unfit for export.
He never saw such strictures exercised in inspection
as in Australia and Maoriland. A pig might suffer
from tuberculosis in a mild form, but it would not
be unfit for food. In Scotland fully 95 per cent, of
the pigs were not inspected. He could not under-
stand why the authorities in Australia insisted on
rigid inspection, when similar strictures were not
exercised in the home country. Even pigs from
Holland were let into the United Kingdom without
inspection.
The pig is the recognised board of health of
Japan, China, India and all over South
America. He is given a roving commission
to clean up things, and he works overtime
on the job. In all pig-raising countries,
tuberculosis is rife and death very busy. Two
years ago two shipments of frozen pork
reached London from Shanghai, and were
sold at Smithfield. There was a wild public
outcry against the admission of Chinese
pork, and no further shipments were re-
ported in the press. The dead and chilled
scavenger of the filthy Chinese towns and
villages gets there just the same, though,
and the trade has been privately encouraged
by Scotch ham and bacon-curers at the ex-
pense of their Irish rivals. As the Scotch
baconer truly remarked: “In Scotland fully
95 per cent, of the pigs were not inspected.”
And he holds that a pig with tuberculosis
would not be unfit for food ! Of course not,
for there is practically no food inspection,
but a horrid lot of food adulteration, in the
bonnie country of the hot greasy haggis and
the semi-rotten red herring.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Ada Ward’s name is Mrs. Fisher—unless she has
been married more than once. Hugh Fisher, an
actor, married her in Australia or S’Africa some 30
years ago. He died in S’Africa, two or three years
later, according to the biography that Ada pub-
lished on the back of her Australian programmes in
1888. The biography stated, among other things,
that Miss Ward had been placed, as a child, in a
convent at Paris, where she remained on the hands of
the nuns, when her stepfather had ceased to pay for
her board and education. The nuns were preparing
her to earn her living as a governess when the
Franco-German war broke out —in 1870. Subse-
quently she was “restored to her friends in England”
—who had seemingly been quite prepared to lose
her —and she came into some money and went into
the acting business. This ancient narrative presents
the Ada Ward of to-day as a Christian who must
be nearing the sixties. It is to be hoped she will
make her reappearance on the long-abandoned boards
in the character of Juliet.
“Busk”: Chapman and Alexander, the Biblical
showmen, have announced their intention of saving
the Vic. actors, actresses and vaudevillains from the
wrath to come, by means of a series of meetings,
with the customary collections to follow. They made
a great hit with this act in Chicago. By arrange-
ment with the management, they appeared, previous
to a matinSe of a comedy called “The Aviator,” be-
fore a full house, entirely composed of theatrical
people. Alexander made them sing hymns in his
own incomparable style, and Chapman made them
repent. Soon, so it is alleged on the rottenest pos-
sible authority, the entire auditorium was a mass
of weeping and religio-maniacal Poverty Pointers.
Luckily, a Chapzander convert rarely remains “saved”
for more than two hours, and so the theatres were
able to resume business that night. The local
mummers will probably be riven from the grip of
Beelzebub at the King’s Theatre, on a Sunday after-
noon.
“Monkbarns”: Certainly there ought to be a por-
trait of G. V. Brooke in the Melbourne Gallery.
Summers’s bust is too ideal, like his O’Hara Burke.
However, excuse the truly poetic, for it is so rare.
Outside the Melbourne Public Library Summers’s
Victoria is Juno, his Alexandra is Minerva, his
Edward is Apollo, and his Albert is Mars. Well, we
can do without them, but just let us have Brooke
as he was. Two good photos are extant, to my know-
ledge, both in private clothes. In one he is by
himself. The other is a group of Brooke, Fanny
Cathcart and Bob Heir. Why are these not bought
for the public? I fancy a £5 note would un-
earth ’em. Then there is extant a splendid litho-
graph of Brooke as Othello, lago, Cors can Brothers,
Shylock, Richard 111., Hamlet, Richelieu and Vir-
ginius. In the Bijou vestibule they showed a group
painting of Brooke, Florence and other American
actors. I have doubts whether the supposed Brooke
was not Forrest, so much is it like him. Mark
Moss showed me a group painting of Brooke, Don and
others. Brooke’s hair and moustache were sandy.
He had usually to darken them for the stage. His
face was not expressive. His original stock in
trade included the unparalleled voice and statuesque
attitudes.
“One Who Pays”: Those Shakspearians, Oscar
Asche and Lily Brayton, will waste half a dozen years
over “Kismet.” No sequence, but plenty of sequins.
The play was refused by Tree and H. B. Irving.
Neither of them could have made any fist of Hajj,
who will become to Oscar like Rip to Jefferson.
There is not an ounce of literature; all conventional.
Nobody knows what Bagdad of 1001 years ago was
like. Probably “Kismet” is unlike it to-day. The
street scene is more of the Chandni Chauk, in Delhi,
or yet more of the Bombay Bazar. Bagdad is not
in the Bible. Though the original Babylonian Bag-
dadi can be traced back 3900 years, it was beyond
the Hebrew horizon. The cheap sixpenny telescope
of Solomon didn’t reach so far. Bagdad will be the
most important station on the railroad from Con-
stantinople to Bombay. This, in combination with
the Westralian railway, and possibly the Port Dar-
win line, is to shorten an Australian's trip to Lon-
don by nearly a week. Then Bagdad is to do im-
mensely under the Mesopotamian irrigation scheme,
by engineer Wilcox, of Assouan fame.
“Silas” : I visited the baby show in connection with
the Druids’ Gala in Melbourne Exhibition, and dis-
covered an infallible method of selecting the star
baby in contests of this character. I went from
mother to mother, and asked each which she thought
was the best infant on the floor. Not one gave an
unequivocal opinion. I then collected opinions as
to the second best baby. Nineteen mothers out of
20 nominated the same second best baby. That baby
was the best baby.
On the authority of “Vulcan”:: One of the last
business moves of the late Mrs. McCathie —she of the
big Sydney drapery—was to attempt the purchase of
Her Majesty’s Theatre from the McQuade family.
The J.C.W. Arm was horrified, and did not breathe
freely till it had secured a further 10 years’ lease of
the big playhouse. The old lady’s idea was to trans-
form the place of Leg into a house of Frill. She
was connected with the profesh,, by the way,, through
her son, Bert Bailey.
“Locust”: Re “emotional scenes outside shipping
offices in New York” over the big wreck. Knew a
lady once who had histrionic ambitions —which were
never encouraged by the managers. Whenever there
was a wreck on the Australian coast, or an accident
to a liner from Australia, she would array herself in
deep black with a heavy veil, and go down to the
office of the company. Then she would rush drama-
tically in, inquire for some nassenger who was
among the drowned, and when the news of his death
was broken to her sympathetically and pityingly, she
would faint, and have to be revived with stimulants.
After that she would sob herself through the surging
crowd —hardly a dry eye among them as they gently
made way for her amid murmurs of , “Poor soul!
poor soul!” Finally she would precipitate herself
into a cab, and go home perfectly satisfied with her-
self and at peace with the whole world. That was
her one chance of a big dramatic effect —and she
never missed it.
“Kismet,” the mighty Asche production at Melb.
Royal, has received a valuable advt. in the form of
a snake story. Herein may be detected the cloven
hand of Phil Finkelstein, who had the fixing up of
the Asche-Brayton souvenir, lately published as No.
5 of the “Australian Play Pictorial.” The snake of
the newspaper yarn is a mystic symbolic feature of
the “Kismet” show, handled by a silent and unac-
countable mock Hindu, who appears before the cur-
tain what time a melodious man and a woman are
chanting one of their dirgey duets. On the opening
night the snake was obviously a stuffed accessory,
but next week a live carpet snake, seemingly, was
substituted for the previous foolishness. Hence the
advertising yam. It stated that the “charmer” had
been in peril of strangulation from the carpet snake,
and would perform henceforth with a tame diamond
animal, borrowed from the children of Government
entymologist Ffrench, who use it as a playmate. As
a matter of fact, the youngsters in question do pos-
sees a loving reptile, and have loaned it to the “Kis-
met” person, but for all purposes of dramatic in-
terest the sorcerer, with snake attached, might as
well be both dead and stuffed. Their new importance
is a purely Finkelsteinian creation, even as the play
credited to Edward Knoblanch is mainly an Asche
creation.
Boucicault’s “After Dark,” now running at Mel-
bourne King’s, was one of George Rignold’s mana-
gerial trump cards. His brother William had made
a great success in the part of Old Tom ; and, in the
1895 revival, at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, George
stepped out of the juvenile’s limelight to play the
old drunk. A cast of good mummers supported him.
Amongst them were Scot Inglis, Albert Marsh, Harry
Plimmer, Charles Hall, Sterling Whyte, Charles
Westmacott, Kate Bishop, Emma Chambers and
Roland Watts* Phillips.
“Lud”: A book called “The Old Playgoer,” by W.
Robson, gives his memories of Dora Jordan, the real
wife of William IV. The Duke of Fife, husband of
King George’s sister, was descended from this pair,
through their daughter, the Countess of Errol. Rob-
son writes: “Of all those who yielded treasures to
my mind and delight to my heart, and were, there-
fore, enshrined in the deepest recesses of both for
ever, Dora Jordan was the dearest. Hearts that
were proof against the lofty powers of the higher
muse, would melt at her thrilling tones and de-
licious enunciation. Delicious! Why her speech
had more sweetness than any other woman’s singing.
Complete melody! Rich, round, full, clear, and yet
so soft. Like the jug, jug, jug of the nightingale,
when May’s moons are brightest and her young flowers
sweetest. Dora Jordan’s heart-sprung laugh burst
gurgling from her lips. She understood, enjoyed, felt
every word she uttered. All her characters were
lovable. When I look at them en masse, it is like
recurring to a Christmas day family dinner party.
And this was the woman Royal Billy gave up for
Adelaide, the German Sehlachdalager. Glorious
Dora The mother of his 10 children! Well, the tart
was young.
“Y.Z.”: The attention of Brother Wowser is
directed to the deplorable prodigality of music-hall
artists. I have known many, but only remember one
who made good to the extent of assuring himself a
comfortable old age. One of the best of them, having
been put out of the game by a visitation of Provi-
dence, is now earning a humble crust canning beans
in a Melbourne suburban establishment. It’s a touch-
ing association of beans and has-beens.
“C. Ockney”: Gerald du Maurier, who was the pro-
ducer of Haddon Chambers’s comedy, “Passers-By,”
in Bullopolis, seems to have a liking for things Aus-
tralian. His new piece for Wyndham’s Theatre is by
H. A. Vachell, the novelist, and is entitled “The
Kangaroo.” It' is expected to jump into favor and
have a long run. The tail is said to be most inter-
esting.
One of the bush-whacking companies presents the
thrilling story of “The Man They Could Not Hang,”
which is an intensely bellowdramatic structure,
erected on a basis of unique fact. John Lee, as the
criminal history of England records, escaped hanging
for murder through the rustiness of the gallows
machinery. The hangman pulled the lever three
times, but the platform wouldn’t fall to permit of
the prisoner dropping into space. After the third
failure the governor of the gaol wired to the Home
Sec. for instructions, and the Sec. commuted John
Lee’s sentence to penal servitude for life. After
22 years of skilly and stone-breaking Lee got his
innocence proved, and was released with cash com-
pensation. The British Government gave him
£7OOO. Judging from the bill of “The Man They
Could Not Hang.” the third act is amusingly grue-
some. Scene four introduces a Vision in the con-
demned cell, and Scene five is “The Scaffold. The
Trap refuses to Work. Saved by a Miracle. The
Almighty Power.” In the actual case of John Lee’s
remarkable let-off the hangman hadn’t previously
oiled the gallows fixings. He was a lazy and per-
functory Ketch. Hence the marvel.
The ingratitude of the star ! One of some magni-
tude, after being lavishly entertained by some of
many rich Victorians, wrote to a friend in England
saying Melbourne people lacked refinement. The
information dripped out again in the usual bother-
some way. The trouble in such a case is .that there
are two aspects of the case. Possibly Australians
aren’t refined. Again, it may be that refined Aus-
tralians saw the star a long way off, and shud-
dered, and said: “Take that dreadful person away
and throw it in the ash barrel.”
ADA WARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Ada Ward made an interesting announcement
in an address given by her to-night at Scots’ Church,
Jamieson-street. She said that she intended to throw
up evangelistic work, and return to the stage.
“I have led a lonely life,” said Miss Ward, “I can
bear it no longer. I have had the greatest call from
God that any man or woman could have, and it is
to return to the profession again. I have given my
heart’s blood for 10 years in this work, and, believe
me, 1 can bear the struggle no longer.
“If I were to live to be 100 I should never be able
to erase from my mind the unkind way in which I
have been treated in the Christian profession. I
have had to beg for my bread, and beg them to give
me work. I have made absolutely nothing during
the whole 10 years but my bare expenses. The first
question always put to me was, ‘llow much can be
made for the church?’ I am going back to these
dear theatrical people, who are noble and generous,
and I feel I shall never be lonesome again.”
—Sews item.
She trod the stage, did Ada Ward,
With some success in days of old ;
Her death scenes rarely were encored,
Her tours were hardly paved with gold.
But still she “starred,” and, sober fact,
Declared that Ada Ward could act.
The years sped on, and Ada’s fame
Grew weaker as they went to waste,
But still she acted, just the same,
Gay, giddy wives or maidens chaste,
And often sought Australia’s shore
Till fortune smiled on her no more.
And then, oh, then, poor Ada Ward,
Converted by a moral twist,
Chucked up the stage to serve the Lord,
And starred as an evangelist.
And sinful folk, foredoomed to h —l,
Imagined she was doing well.
Responding to a holy call,
The sinner mourned her former state,
And lectured in a meeting hall,
Whilst brethren passed around the plate.
But nothing for herself she made
Save daily bread (for which she prayed).
And lately, on her bended knees,
Would Ada cry to One above:
“O Father, is it—tell me, 'please —
Quite good enough to work for love?”
Then He, of Whom none ask in vain,
Said: “Go on busking once again.”
So Ada’s going on the stage,
And never more will she be sad ;
The manager who doth engage
This star will mention in his ad.—
“The cast includes Miss Ada Ward,
The Chosen Actress of the Lord.”
Weep, weep, ye Wowsers! Let your tears
Rain down upon these verses bald.
She played your game for ten long years,
But Oh! the Master’s voice has called
Your sister of uncertain mind
Back to the mummers good and kind.
What sort “the godless play-house” now,
When Ada Ward is on the job,
A halo shining o’er her brow,
And amphitheatre seats a “bob”?
We ask —and pause for your retort —•
What sort the play-house now —what sort ?
Weep, wilted Wowsers, weep with rage!
The Lord has left you in the lurch ;
None heed your curses on the stage,
Since Ada Ward has d —d the Church.
Beyond all shadow of a doubt
The mummeress has found you out.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


The “D.J.” Coat Sweater
Is the handiest, smartest and warmest Winter
Garment for Sporting and General Wear. It has
a neat, dressy appearance, and the close fit of the
body and sleeves allows the wearer absolute free-
dom. The ideal Sweater for Skating. It is
worn over the Vest, same as an ordinary Coat, and
retains its shape until worn out. Sizes: Small
Men’s, Men’s. Out Sizes, Extra Out Sizes.
The “D.J.” Special Coat Sweater, in Grey only.
S.M. M. O.S. E.O.S.
6/11 7/6 8/6 9/6
Pure Wool Coat Sweater, medium weight in White.
S.M. M. O.S. E.O.S.
10/6 11/3 12/6 13/6
Our High-grade Sweater in pure Wool, pearl Buttons
and two pockets . . . . . . .. .. 21/=
Carriage Paid to all parts of Australasia.
David Jones Ltd.
(Opp. G.P.0.)
SYDNEY.
h
They enable your Car to do better work.
Vacuum Gargoyl
Mobiloi Is
are free from Animal or Vegetable Compounds.
They ensure freedom from frictional wear, and
lengthen the life of the car. Ask for Pamphlet.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.,
New Zealand Chambers, George Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
A WEIRD
PHYSIOGNOMY.
ADA: “ The mana-
ger says Austra-
lian playgoers
have a passion for
strange faces, yet
he's given us this
same leading lady
for years. ”
IDA : “ But she
meets the require-
ments of the case
just the same. ”
Though the Titanic, with its 1600 drowned
folk may be the world’s greatest single
catastrophe at sea, it has its rivals. The
Royal George drowned 900 people, and the
Queen Charlotte 700. The Princess Alice
sank with 650 people in the Thames (Eng-
land), and the Victoria on the Thames
(Canada), took down 700. A pair of
British vessels, which bumped simultaneously
against Jutland, in 1811, drowned 1400
between them. Also, Cloudesley Shovel mud-
dled away 2000 lives when he ran his squad-
ron on to Seilly. When the sea gives up its
dead on Resurrection Day—all the innumer-
able dead from Genesis to Coogee—the level
of the waters will be perceptibly lowered, and
the surface will foam like 1000 cataracts
with the uprusliing of the ghosts.
* * * *
Some remarks by the Lamptrimmer’s
Secretary:—
The mysteries of modern ship construction are
numerous, and the man who has never studied the
subject scientifically has no right to ask questions or
possess opinions. But that doesn’t stop him. What
lie most wants to know at the present moment is
this: Can an iron tank the size of the lost Titanic
have the same coherency, so to speak, as a vessel one-
eighth or one-sixteenth its size? It seems to the
utterly ignorant traveller (who has only one life to
lose) unreasonable to expect a thin iron skin as long
and high as a city block and as wide as a broad
street, no matter how strongly braced by interior
ribs and fastenings, to contain tens of thousands of
tons dead weight, and withstand a moderately heavy
shock, without bursting and spilling its vast load.
Ilarland and Wolff, the builders, are daring experi-
menters in ship construction, and nearly always con-
trive to have afloat a larger and wider ship than any
of their rivals. The firm would seem to have pos-
sessed doubts as to the point it had reached with the
two White Star giants, for it is alleged that the
exact displacement tonnage of the Olympic sister was
only disclosed during the inquiry into the eollis'on
with the cruiser Hawke. Until the law demanded the
information, it had been almost as carefully guarded
as a guilty secret—or a secret that might look guilty
in the event of anything happening.
Melbourne manufacturers complain bit-
terly of the inadequacy of the inter-State
shipping facilities, and say they are losing
thousands yearly through the impossibility
of getting their goods humped round the
coast without unreasonable delay. Naturally
the shipping ring dislikes unnecessary waste,
and so arranges its services that the boats
shall always be comfortably filled or there-
abouts, and if any extra heap of merchandise
comes along, it just has to wait for the next
boat, and that’s all about it. Simultaneously
it is notified that the Orient line can take no
more third-class passengers from Britain
hither until August, while just at present it
is impossible to obtain third-class passages
to Australia by any line. Thus does Private
Enterprise maintain his boasted reputation
for doing things better than the State.
In England they go to a great deal of
trouble to prove that the nation which abol-
ished black slavery and went in extensively
for Freetrade and the white variety, is a
great and humane institution,
where even the lost dog can find
a dish cover, and the revolu-
tionary who is out of bombs get
a benevolent asylum. The
latest proof that the great heart
of England beats is the prosecu-
tion of a curious sightseer who
dug a knife into a whale, whilst
it was stranded on the beach at
Penzance, where Gilbert’s oper-
atic pirates come from. The
whale is alleged to be the
longest-lived animal on earth,
its usual lease being made out,
according to eminent authori-
ties, whose sources
of information are
doubtful, at 1000
years, subject, of
course, to the usual
sea risks. Th e
a 1 m os I-permanent
victim of the purely
transitory exc u r-
sionist may have
been blowing about
at the time of the
Norman Conquest.
The odds are the
same marine foun-
tain will be getting
round with his
school-—for he got
a w a y—when the
grass is green on
the grave of his
assailant’s great-
grandson, and the
hones of the judges
have crumbled to
dust. Yet the Eng-
1a n d of to-day,
with a million hu-
man miseries un-
derneath its front
windows, worries
over the foo li s h
thing and burns up
expensive horsehair
that is here to-day
and gone to-mor-
row, along with the
guineas that hired it.
Joseph Pfeffer, butcher (in more senses
than one) of St. Kiida (Vie.), is a man
whom the Murray Government has decided
to hang. There has been no hanging in A ic-
toria for a very long time, and it was under-
Stood that the local Dennis or Calcraft or
J. Ketch had died of a broken heart, but now
the business is to be resumed. Pfeffer was
one of the men—there are many of them —
...i, . holiovo in mnrrinp-e with n deceased
w “°, heiie\e in marna ft e with a aeteasta
wife s sister always her younger sister. Ihe
troubled history of the family where that
faith has taken deep root is something like
this: An intensely respectable young man,
aged 27 —call him Samuel Ferguson—be-
r-J with the household of
(say) Jones. It includes the comely Saiah
Jones, aged 21, and her youngest sister
Geraldine, aged 12. The others, including
Charlotte, Jane and William, are outside
this story. Samuel Ferguson marries Sarah,
mid thev take Geraldine to live with them as a
and tliej take ueiaiaine to m e Wltll tlieill as a
sort of companion. The husband is affectionate
to Geraldine in a fatherly way. t l ll she is
perhaps 15, and he is affectionate in a bro-
A HAPPY THOUGHT.
FOND MAMMA: “ Now, Charlie, don’t you admire my new dress?”
CHARLIE: “ Yes, mamma, it’s beautiful."
MAMMA : “ And, Charlie, all the silk is provided for us by a poor worm.”
CHARLIE : “Do you mean Dad?"
therly way for a while afterwards. Later, he
is affectionate in any old way. A struggling
life in a mean suburban street, much house-
keeping and toiling and dish-washing, and a
certain amount of baby-carrying, age Sarah
Ferguson rapidly. She bears the heat and
burden of the day while Samuel, the hus-
band, is,climbing to moderate affluence. In
time she is 30, and not at all like the girl
whom Samuel married, while Geraldine
Jones is 21, and just like the girl he married.
He has- transferred his affections so gradu-
aly from Sarah to Geraldine that he doesn’t
realise that he is 36, and that Geraldine re-
gards him as middle-aged. It becomes a
sort of fixed idea with him that his wife, who
is younger than he, will presently die of old
age, and that he will marry her sister, and
they will live happily on the moderate
affluence, the acquisition of which made
Sarah a wreck before her time. He assumes,
as a matter of course, that the sister will
wait for him. And in the end, if he has
taken his dream too seriously, he either
murders Sarah for not dying soon enough or
murders Geraldine for not waiting long
enough. The young spinster who goes to
live with her elder married sister and her
married sister’s husband Ferguson takes a
heap of risks.
An art item from S.A.: —
The annual show of the S.A. Society of Arts,
opened by President John White last week, is a plea-
S ant but not striking collection. Adelaide can claim
Power and Hayley Lever, Miss Davidson and Miss
Macpherson—all in Europe; also Heysen, Webb, and
the Hambidge sisters—all near at hand, but other-
wise. engaged. Of those who exhibit, the veteran
James Ashton has his unmistakable sea-and-shore-
sca P es > ranging from Good to Jolly Good. His son
has the usual powerful whip-cream waves, a
Heysen gum-tree, and some of those bridges on the
Seine, which are, perhaps, his best work. Obviously
his pupil is John Giles—a new name, and probably
a coming one. The rest are pleasant landscapes, by
e president and Edward Davies and others ; and
Archibald Collins, a much-improved man, produces
an Alma Tadema maiden, and Alfred Sinclair, R.8.C.,
back from wandering the world, introduces some so-
so figures into an otherwise delightful garden. Miss
Bosworth and others paint flowers almost perfectly.
The writer suspects that it must be easy to paint
flowers. Because, whatever city one may visit, one
finds them painted almost perfectly by people for
whom that accomplishment gains nothing more than
a local reputation. Therefore—Q.E.D.
A resident of St. Ives (Gordon, N.S.W.)
sprang up last week and attempted to smite
nearly the whole community. The defend-
ants in the case were the Attorney-General,
Justices Street, 1 ’ Sly, Ferguson and Pring, an
ex-Judge of the Supreme Court, the Inspec-
tor-General of Police, the District Couri
Judges, some High Court officials, Chief
Commissioner Johnson, C. G. Wade, most of
the stipendiary magistrates, the Sheriff,
Kuring-gai Shire Council, and numerous sun-
dries. From this collection he claimed
£20,000. The chief reasons which the plain-
tiff, T. E. Brown, gave for his outburst was
that, “under the present state of mis-
rule my life is in danger,” and the “Chief
Commissioner sued me for 2d., a*id refused
me the right of giving evidence, and when I
applied for a re-hearing one of the defend-
ants ordered the police to remove me from
the court.” Also, they trespassed against
his person and property and obstructed any
legal proceedings he tried to take. Then
Justice Simpson put both feet down and
struck out the case, and granted an injunc-
tion forbidding him to institute any similar
action against the defendants without having
first gained the consent of a Judge. So
now Simpson is added to Thomas Edwin
Brown’s long list of tyrants.
SAIREY RUNS AMOK !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Marriage, OR SOME FORM OF INSTITUTION
ENABLING HER TO BEAR CHILDREN, who will
be provided for during the years of incapacity, is
prima facie the right of every woman. Every man
is equally entitled to the indulgence of his parental
and uxorious instincts. Modern economists tell us
that this is not only a right, but an obligation.
—S. M. Herald (13/4/T2).
“My precious Betsey—pass the pot!
An’ stir the fire up bright. . .
There... wot a comfort is a tot...
I’m seein’ stars to-night!
My Betsey, these is wearin’ days. ..
The worst I ever see;
But, drat the consekense, I says...
I'm goin’ on the spree!
“For years, my Betsey, an’ no lie,
Both you and me ’as stood
For ’ome, and for the Marridgc-tie,
An’ keepin’ poor folks good!
But—drat the creeturs! They just go
And act as shouldn’t be. ..
I’m tired of preachin’ at ’em—so
I’m goin’ on the spree!
“ ’Ow often, love, did we onpoge
The loosenin’ of them ties?...
Well...jest a drop, w’ile I propoge
The ’ealth of your bright eyes!
‘My frequent pardner, Betsey Prig!. ..
I wonder, goodness me!
Wotever makes my ’ead so big ?. ..
I must be on the spree!
“Blow marridge! Wot I ’ave to say
AVill make your ’air uncurl!. . .
A babe’s the right—now, ain’t it, eh?
The right of every girl ?. . .
A dozen, Betsey, if she can!...
Won’t every man agree
’Oo ’as the instinks of a man?...
Hie! Betsey, passh the tea!
“Them ’orrid Sosh (hie !) lists, my dear...
They think they knows a lot 1
Veil, sech is life!...An’ let ’em sneer!...
My Betsey, passh the pot!
Your Sairey’s constitooshun’s right. ..
She’ll quick (/mV;) ly let ’em see!
Bein’ so dispoged, this blessed night—
Whoop! Sairey’s on the spree!”
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


10,000, oos^
tablets of Sun
light Soap are
sold overy week;
this is the high-
est possible proof
that .Sunlight
k Soap comes up
jto expecta-
tions.
%
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY. N.B.W. No. ST.
STANDS ALONE.
Franz Josef
Laft'er Beer
ABSOLUTELY THE FINEST
LAGER BREWED.
FOR DARK LAGER
NACKERBRAU
IS THE BRAND.
A TRUE ALL-WOOL RUG
FROM NEW ZEALAND
166
This exceptionally low price is indicative of splendid value,
because the quality is pure wool, of lightness in weight and
warmth. We believe that this Rug will give complete satisfac-
tion, it being thoroughly presentable in patterns of various
checked colors with fringed ends, and also because it will prove
serviceable in wear.
With Fringed Ends,
POSTED 1/- EXTRA.
16|6.
We send our Catalogue of Men's Wear post free on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i
um
m -*4
»!**
Adelaide has (appropriately enough) been
kicking up a dust over the sweeping of the
streets. The Corporation scavengers struck
for 12s. 6d. a day—they already got 12s.—
so the shameless and insanitary horse worked
his will in the city streets, freed from the
attentions of those who make a living by
“following” that animal. Mayor Bonython
was authorised to make temporary arrange-
ments, and “scab” scavengers got to work.
The chief outcoihe fif the matter is a split
in the City Council. One of Bonython’s
arrangements was the purchase of a f4OO-odd
motor-lorry, and this is held by a minority to
be not “temporary,” and to be altogether out-
side his powers. The striking feature of a
meeting held in protest was the lining un of
Lewis Cohen alongside Lundie. The latter
is an advanced Democrat, who harassed the
late Labor Government for being altogether
too Fat, and Tory and sluggish. Cohen is
accused of being the very embodiment of
Fat, but he claims to be pained at the spec-
tacle of incanacity in the Corporation finan-
cing. So Adelaide begins to ask whether
this is Roosevelt and Taft on the small scale,
and whether Cohen —who has already been
Mayor of Adelaide at various times, for
seven years in all—is planning to “come
back” like the lion-slayer from Africa, who
threw his hat into 'lie ring. Meanwhile, the
non-union horse is being pursued by the
free-labor scavenger.
TIMES
AND
SEASONS.
“ Do you wear a black nightie now, Auntie ? "
“No, of course not.”
“Why, aren't you sorry in the flight time that
Uncle's gone to Heaven ?"
A languishing widow, advertising for an-
other mate in the Age matrimonial columns,
the other day, specified “Bald preferred. The
balder the better.” If the lady imagines that
bald men are better, she is due for a sad
disillusionment.
* * * *
“Singemoine” : I see that Ada Ward publicly
complained last week, in the edifice of Syd-
ney’s only Dill, that “Christian people” had
treated her villainously; that she had had to
“beg her bread” ; and that the first question
that was invariably put to her, when she
proposed to fare forth and snatch a soul or
two from Hades, was, “How much is the
Church going to get out of it?” As a nat-
ural result, Ada is disillusioned, and has
turned from the kirk to the footlights in dis-
gust. If money was a consideration with
the infuriated lady, the two things that
stagger me are (1) that she went where she
did in search of it; (2) that she continued
the futile quest as long as she did. It is
easier to wring beer from a block of granite
than to tap, for hard cash, whether in bulk
or otherwise, a church-haunting, anti-joy
Sabbatarian of the type that Ada seems to
have foregathered with during the past
decade. The thing simply can’t be done. As
W. Ardill —who should know if any man
in N. S. Wales does —told the Baptist Assem-
bly a couple of nights back: —
There are many in our midst who are splendid
prayers, but miserable payers. These people sinp
loud and long, but when the opportunity comes to
give to the church they are prolific in excuses for
keeping their pockets closed. The citadel of their
wealth is invulnerable to attack. Yet these very
people may be, and often are, adding land to land
and houses to houses, etc.
The moral which the citizen who thinks of
going religious-mad should dvaw from the
melancholy case of the fine-time actress is :
Don’t become a convert to one of the Wow-
serish sects unless you possess an inde-
pendent income. The virtue of economy is
so overdeveloped in the average modern
Bible-waver that I verily believe he would
essay to beat the disciples down over a fish-
transaction.
* * * *
“F.C.”: A heading that for almost as
long as I can remember has been a smudge on
the clean face of the daily paper is “Union
of the Churches.” It pops up ever insist-
ently, yet seems to get no further ahead. I
had always passed it over un-
heeded, until it lately occurred to
me that as all the churches al-
legedly worship the one God, they
must surely be united already, or,
if not, there must be some deep
and mysterious reason why they
cannot foregather. So I bent my
intellect on a couple of paragraphs
thereanent. * It seems there is a
movement —or, perhaps, one would
call it rather a stationariness or
even a boggedness—to draw to-
gether the Anglican, Baptist,
Congregational, Methodist and
Pre s b yterian denominations
into one church, hut that the
thing doesn’t materialise to any
extent. What the many other-
denominations have done to be
left out I don’t know, but there
seems to be an absence of the
Church of Christ, the Latter-
Day Saints, the Exclusive
Brethren, the Zwinglians, the
Latitudinarians and the thou-
sand others. Neither can I say
what essential differences there
are in their several creeds
or modes of worship. Practi-
cally all of them bow the knee,
or bob the head, to the same
God ; they sing much the same
songs, and intone much the
same lugubrious observations.
Also, all chase the elusive coin,
though some collect it in a plate,
others use a bag, others a pot
hat, while yet others invite it
to secrete itself in an envelope.
But all the time it is the same
traybit. Wherefore, though I
have dived into the matter
earnestly, I am still unaware why the blessed
“churches” don’t unite. Certainly there
seem to be certain questions of doctrine
blocking the way, but, of course, doctrine
is purely a matter of denomination, while a
“church” is the visible form or outward
essence of religion, so that cannot be the
cause. Again, presbytery, synod, conference
and what not have protested against giving
up their “cherished traditions,” but as no
sane Christian would dream of mixing up
religious beliefs and traditions, that excuse
affords no clue to the divergence. Privately,
I opine the blessed “churches” won’t unite
simply because they don’t want to.
The councillors of Seymour (Vid.) shire
have been having a strenuous time of late,
and they aren’t yet out of the wood, though
they have temporarily struck a bare patch,
so to speak. First, some of them started
criticising the engineer over some alleged
trafficking with contractors. He hit back
for a while, then resigned. Next one coun-
cillor heaved a lawyer’s letter at another,
stating that he (the other) was interested in
certain contracts, and if he didn’t resign in-
GUARDING HIS CHARACTER.
LANDLADY: “ Three weeks' board due ; will you pay me now?"
RESTING ACTOR: “Madam, if I were to pay you now, and the fact were to leak out, it
might give rise to a suspicion that I am the masked burglar . ”
stantly, he (the first) would proceed to re-
cover penalties in the Supreme Court. The
impugned one resigned at once. Then an-
other legal document was handed another
councillor, with a similar intimation or
threat, or whatever it was. He ignored it,
and sat on and voted, daring the challenger
to do his worse. The council next proceeded
to engage a new engineer. A man from
Warrnainbool got five votes, and the just-
resigned engineer, who had apparently re-
pented him of his haste, got six. Before he
was actually appointed a councillor jumped
up hastily and read a letter from the afore-
said engineer to a culvert contractor, en-
closing a cheque for £l5 for work done, and
desiring him to sign, stamp and return a
voucher, for the said work, for £l6 10s. Most
people would have thought some explanation
desirable at this stage, but the engineer
treated the insinuation with contempt, and as
the six councillors who voted for him saw no-
thing irregular about it, the matter was
dropped, and the officer duly reappointed.
These Victorian councillors are a quaint lot.
“0.K.” about an old Melbourne house :
“Melb ” (Bulletin 18/4/’l2) ' makes the alarm-
ing announcement that the Grange estate, bordering
on St. Kilda-road and Domain-road, is to be “swal-
lowed up once more in the Government House Do-
main,” thus suggesting to Melbourne readers that
Government House grounds are to be carried to the
footpath of the two roads aforesaid. Nothing of the
sort is intended by the Vic. Government’s re-purchase
of the land which was alienated in the dim past.
The Grange estate, as Treasurer Watt lately said, is
to be restored to the public, and the result will be a
great convenience to South Yarra residents walking
into town, assuming, of course, that a new thorough-
fare is added to those already in use. The Grange
estate has been always the corner piece of the South
Yarra Domain, cut off from public use. It is dis-
connected from the Government House grounds situ-
ated between the Domain and the Botanical Gardens.
“Melb ” is inaccurate also ,in stating that the Grange
has hardly ever had “an aristocratic tenant, except
Lord Fink.” The estate was originally sold (or
given) to a Victorian military commandant, 40 or
more years ago. In more recent years another mili-
tary commandant —Colonel Hutton —was the occu-
pant, and in his time the Grange loomed large in
social importance. It would be interesting to know
how the Grange park ever came to be legally dis-
severed from the South Yarra Domain (not “Govern-
ment House Domain,” for there is no such place),
whereof it must have been a part. Did the original
military occupant pay cash for his triangular allot-
ment? Apparently, the Government which stole the
land from the public reserve thought that it was
providing for a regular succession of occupation by
military commandants, who would reside at the
Grange because it was within easy distance of Gov-
ernment House and the barracks.
Wild’s Hairdressing; Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
THE MOURNERS.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
On every hand are mourners for those who were lost
with the Titanic. —News item.
The mail-ship casting off for sea
Is like some vast and cheerful heart;
It seems to throb with hope and joy.
Black loneliness is not its part,
Nor nameless dread, nor tears that blind;
They bear the cross who stay behind.
The folks that crowd the fading wharf
Grimly resume the old routine,
Meeting fresh heartaches ev’rywhere, .
Regrets at each familiar scene,
And memories on every wind:
They bear the cross who stay behind.
And when the worst of all befalls,
And Death arises from the Deep,
And grips the horror-stricken ship
And rocks it to eternal sleep,
The same relentless law we find:
They bear the cross who stay behind.
x.s.w.
10-2-4.
SPEED.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The newspapers condemn the rage for speed, and
describe the Titanic’s voyage as an attempt to
break the Olympic’s trans-Atlantic record.
■ — Cablegram.
More speed ! More speed !
Is the owners’ creed,
In the great financial zones.
“Aye, and when you’ve sped
I shall claim your dead,”
Are the words of Davy Jones.
Oh! a mine of steel,
That the mills congeal,
And Invention’s ripened dream —
Lo! they lightly float,
As a fairy boat,
Over Davy’s dim demesne.
Ho! the engines crash,
And the headlights flash
On the starry, powdered spray—
But old Davy hides,
Where the shark abides,
And with ice-floes bars the way.
Let the pistons fly !
Is the coal-king’s cry—
Let each huge furnace roar! —
And old Davy laughs;
For his epitaphs
Are writ for a million more!
No time to lose!
When the masters choose
To placate each purse-proud whim —-
But there’s time to spare,
To be deep fish fare,
Where the pets of Davy swim.
More pace ! More pace !
Lest the ocean race
Should go to our hated foes....
And say! Who has won,
When the race is done? —-
Ask Davy—for Davy knows !
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


WELLINGTON, M.L., Tuesday.
The prisoners at Lyttelton gaol yes-
terday went on strike, refusing to per-
form their usual tasks or to form up into
ranks. They contented themselves with
lounging about the exercise yard. The
gaolers vainly appealed to them to state
their grievance.
Representative of every police dis-
trict in Victoria, a large deputation of
constables and officers waited upon the
Premier yesterday. They complained
that, while rents were rising, food
becoming dearer, and the wages of
workers generally being raised to
withstand the demands made on the
housekeeping purse, they, almost alone
in the community, were being over*
loalwda
Vo>ce ojf
Got” yet
On -H 7€ JOWI7 Wo)r>
liiT> ?
£"s
T'rvt oV€*'looK'in'
'iVr>. “
Warder • VvV?s?tk
grievance?
Ofoy'us Convicts.’
y WbrKt uOorV<
iV? -tire abstract - !"
'(ei\e.d for.
Endless vistas of possibility are opened
up by Dr. Springthorpe’s suggestion
that the sensje of smell ought to be cul-
tivated, as the senses of sight and hear-
ing are cultivated.
It look* a* II the bottom had dropped
out of all enterprise In this community.
We have been so saturated with the
Murray doctrine of repose that appa- |
rently we have not the energy to feel
the slightest confidence in our own
destiny.— Age.
1C Melt?. C.r 'Pon'd see
Pooler- Sfc»-i ngTdofb
beer? cloTvfe neplecT’ IcT*
develop de r?ose ?"
C.r- *ldo ."
Veil . v^oT - ar'e^p^y^oiW'
'to do aoood
4 \ .
A»>. c o/' f «c.
<s Xy 'iff
v», » 0/ />»
*%,
'Off> >%,
e 4% ;%>*
x '>
f o r
'Premier' ,V,
» Heco
3oWr7 V\ofc>.
* vleve S \rnp\y>
"to Wave
belter pay. lli
■foe cosi q|- £
: living beafe~C*.
>bo t>ec jo** , S»r,
rto p»e co m«s over* -tV?e
novo-a-da^/s’’
With the abolition of the bona-fide
traveller provision he would bracket the
liquor licenses on Bay steamers The
traveller was a fraud. He was not
a traveller at all. The whole thing.was
o disgrace. Why should the drunkards
of one locality be permitted to fasten
themselves on to the sober people of
another? —John Murray
iv\o
(f S quW« 5 ’ to
P at T> s
sk^st
* St o e v. i asn6S
tne K
sill fja*
neltr^ot^ed
t7i*S
Punch
At the request of the Liberal party ■
in Tasmania, Mr. Watt, the (Victorian
Stale Treasurer, will proceed to Tas-
mania towards the end of, this month
in order to help the Liberal cause in
.the. State election campaign which is
oo.w being fought there. He will speak
jtt both Hobart and Launceston
IN AND AROUND MELBOURNE.


NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
Reduced
Enormously
WHY?
3 Choice Blue White
Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £l2 12s.
5 Selected Diamonds,
in Platinum Setting,
£25.
2 Very Choice Blue
White Diamonds, set
in Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £33.
We took on some time ago a Sole Agency calling for an immense output, and to live up to
it we are selling Diamonds at merely a broker's commission on the actual landed cost.
They are shown loose, and set in rings and jewellery generally, and we feel sure that our
new departure will pay us, owing to the advertisement and the increase of customers.
pAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
A SORDID SOUL FOR DETAILS.
JOHNNIE (enthusiastically) : ‘‘ Ya-as, bai Jove,
this is a wonderful country ; a land Join-
ing with milk and honey, wine and oil,
you know."
COCKY : “ Yairs, that's right! They've started a
kerosene works down Wallaby Gully."
“S.S.S.” : She was a religieuse—a nun—
and I was telling her of Thursday Island. But I
didn’t mention the colored question and its hurry-
ing curse, nor did I speak of the social side and
how we knew everything, and more, about every-
body. Nor —several things. I just spoke about
the big white soldier houses, with their snowy,
scrubbed boards; and the tennis in the cool of the
evening, on the lovely old beach courts, and the
dainty little Jap mousmees with their gorgeous
kimonos and quaint clogs, who shuffled like pouter
pigeons along the tracks; and the rose-purple mist
that lies like a veil over the gold beaches of the
Outer Isles; and the pearls, and the white-sailed
luggers that skim the sapphire strait. “And,”
she said suddenly, “what are the little birds like?”
“There are,” I replied, “no birds there.” “Then”
(she sighed and crossed herself) “it is a wicked
place.” It was a new theory to me, but it was
deadly accurate.
“Trotter”: The best Church thing going
is a Presbyterian medical hostel at Oodnadatta, Cen-
tral Australia. It is in charge of a nurse trained
at the Melbourne Alfred and Women’s Hospitals. She
has just had a patient suffering great agony, and he
had been brought 500 miles by three weeks’ journey
in a buggy, in fierce sunshine and heavy rain, over
bad roads or none at all. “Oh, let me die! ” ex-
claimed the poor chap, but the hostel made him
happy, and sent him on in comfort to Port Augusta.
The lady in charge has lately been appealing for a
new tooth-drawing forceps, and, I presume, she has
got it. The doctor only comes round once a month.
Of course, Oodnadatta will be a great place, but
while the grass grows, a good many afflicted people
seem, from time to time, to be hanging on to
Little Mother, the nurse. In particular it is re-
markable that she treats a number of children.
“Te Barbarantiko” : Until about three and
a half years ago, the company working the phosphate
deposit on Ocean Island had the power, self-assumed
or otherwise, to punish its indentured native laborers.
Punishment was meted out for laziness, malingering,
for not understanding the white, overseer, or for any
old reason that happened to be handy. Striking a
native was strictly interdicted, but money-fines and
breaking stones went on gaily every evening after
the overseers had laid their complaint. Sometimes
the nigger was fined a dollar (45.) or more, or
ordered an hour’s stone-breaking, or, in bad cases, a
week in the co.’s prison, according to the state of
the manager’s liver. Often the punishment was
richly deserved, but many a queer kind of justice
have I seen meted out. Frequently a boy would be
told, in the artificial gibberish invented for use on
the island, to (say) haul a boat up, and when he
had completed the job would be cursed for a fool,
and fined a shilling for not getting the boat ready
to go to sea. The white overseer’s knowledge of the
language was at fault—but his troubles ! Eventually
the Deputy High Commissioner arrived and abolished
all punishments by the co., and the natives are now
tried for offences in the usual way. Of course, the
co. wailed that capital would bolt out of the coun-
try so fast that no one would see the heels of the
last halfpenny for dust; but, as usual, capital hung
on to a good thing with 10 claws, and also seized
it' with its teeth and wrapped its tail round the
article. As for the nigger, it didn’t make much dif-
ference to him, either. He works just as he likes,
whatever happens.
* * * *
“Wal”: I would fain enter the tree known
as “asi-asa-sa” for the belt as the champion teredo-
resisting timber of the globe, and I bring up the fol-
lowing facts to prove my case. The herb is indige-
nous to Papua, and has been proved by immersion
in the sea to withstand the attacks of cobra. At a
place a few miles off Samarai is a jetty where this
vegetable can be seen sound and good after over 15
years of exposure in the sea. The only difference,
seemingly, is that it has become as hard as iron.
The native —and he is not a bad judge—reckons it is
“good along saltwater,” and from the tests it has
stood, his judgment is sound. What a future there
is for a shrub like this! For wharves, and other
works where it would have to be sunk in the sea, it
would be almost invaluable, and for such things as
furniture, railway carriages, and numberless other
things where a good, hard wood is needed, it should
have a great vogue. When green it is as easily worked
as pine, but let it get dry and then it takes some
cutting. I have seen it turned, and the man who did
the deed told me he used almost the same tools to
work it as he did for metal. His opinion was con-
densed in about three words: “Better than teak.”
And this is only one of the many fine timbers that
wonderful Papua produces.
* * * *
“S. S. Severn” : Speaking of harnessing a
Brontosaurus (“Lakakamu” in B. 21/3/’l2), the
man who might have done the job left on the Laka-
kamu goldfields (Papua) his 401 b. pestle,
hewn from a solid flint, with which he
pounded betel back in the Stone. Age.
Recently it was blasted out of a niche
below 12ft. of solid rock. It was un-
chipped and only slightly pitted. The
finder, Davy James, is escorting it to the
British Museum. On Jouka Island, the
quarantine station, 10 miles across the
sea from Port Moresby, there lies, firmly
fixed in a water-washed reef, a mighty
fossil man, Bft. long, and with feet like
fenders. Years agone a friend of his,
another stone man, rested in the reef on
the other side of the island, but a learned
scientist, and a man of works, blew him
to pieces with bad blasting. In the little
cove where the recently-found stone man
smiles, the quarantined natives (there are
no local inhabitants) see plenty ghosts,
who fish and yarn and sing and dance;
Hospital orderly Quaia, scion of a pourri
pourri past, has a lady friend, a snake-
woman, in one of the caves. She wears a
very nice white-girl face at the top end
of a reptilian body 30ft. long, and cooees
to her boy regularly when the moon is
young. I, myself, have seen there the
ghost of the black dog that belonged to
the stone man. He passes under the
cocoanut palms above the little beach on his way to
the hunting in the Strange Places when the night
sets in.
* * * *
“H. Horsecollar” : As regards “Brumby” (B.
16/11/Tl) and other people who tear up the octo-
pus, or turn him inside out, or throw him overboard,
or sit on his head and drown him, 1 wish to make
some remarks. The real, full-grown, wild, mad,
marine octopus of the sea—the .ship-eating variety—
flatly refuses to be turned inside out, just as a raging
elephant does. His arms and wings won’t tear.
After you have killed him —which is best attempted
by the aid of a cannon, for he isn’t the sort of beast
to be pursued with forks and hope—you can boil
these more delicate parts for 10 hours, and even then
you can’t get an axe through the gravy. As a matter
of fact, the hide of the octopus is thicker than the
octopus himself, so he is naturally tough. I have
heard somewhere of a Methodist lady of uncertain
age who suddenly drove her green cotton umbrella
into the mouth of an octopus, and then opened the
large and holy gamp, wherefore he perished
through the dye and whalebone getting into his
system. And there is another tale of a missionary
who found an octopus that had been left behind by
the tide in a shallow pool, and as the animal had
his mouth open the missioner threw Bibles at the
orifice and drove them in with a clothes-prop, until
the animal was full of Scripture. But these stories
rest on no sufficient evidence.
RUSH OF
BUSINESS.
HARD WORKER : “ Well, Jim, there's a job for you at last. Boss told me to tell you to see
him at ten to-morrow sharp.
HARD LOAFER : “Cant got I've promised to carry the flag in the unemployed procession
to-morrow."
“Snell”: The good old sporting spirit
which prohibits a man from shooting a sitting bird,
betting on a certainty, kicking a Wowser, etc., bobs
up in strange ways now and then. To cite a case in
point. As Cole and I were affectionately washing
shirts together the other Sunday morning, he said:
“I s’p’ose you can see it stiekin’ out like a jibboom?
That woman’s the bane of my existence. It ain’t
only that she does as she darn well pleases, but I’ve
gotter do as she darn well pleases, too. Here ’m I
doin’ me own washin’, ’n’ its 10 to one when I go in
I’ll get ellentommy ’cause I haven’t done hers. You
got no idear, ole man, what I have t’ put up with
from that woman. Me life’s one long misery, ’n’ I
dunno what t’ do about it.” "Why don’t you clear
out?” I suggested mildly. Cole shook his head. “I
can’t do that,” he said. "I ain’t married to her!”
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie”: Mention by “N. or M.”
(B. 14/3/’l2) of some unusual deposits of shell on
the east coast of Tasmania, recalls to mind the
curious mounds of earth, known as “blackfellows’
ovens,” which occur along the shores of the Eumeralla
Swamps, and in the vicinity of Lake Condah; both
of which are in sou’-western Victoria, and adjacent
to the great lava stream spewed out in ancient
times by that long-extinct volcano, Mount Eccles.
The origin of these mounds, which abound with
numerosity in the localities mentioned, and which
run into individual accumulations of several hun-
dreds of tons of material, has never, to my mind,
been satisfactorily explained. The Oldest Inhabitant,
who is mostly a very much misinformed person when
he isn’t a plain liar, alleges these prehistoric heaps
to be the amassed ashes of fires, kept burning almost
in perpetuity, by untold generations, or centuries, or
sons of Black Brother. As a matter of fact, the
material in these mounds resembles fine earth rather
than ashes; and, anyway, it is doubtful (1) whether
black brother ever created any such infernos as these
alleged ash-heaps would seem to bear record of, or
(2) whether such ash-heaps, if formed, would have
withstood the levelling agency of Time. Rather, it
may be allowed, that black brother singed his bandi-
coot in bygone times very much as he singes it to-
day—with promiscuity and a minimum of personal
exertion. In view of the distinctly volcanic nature
of the zone in which the deposits occur, I would
favor the theory that these mounds are the rem-
nants of long-defunct mud springs—mere ancient
silt-geysers such as those still in operation at Dal-
housie Springs, in Central Australia, and in the
Upper Belyando and West Diamentina regions of
Bananaland. Anyhow, the queer old geological car-
buncles have not outlived their usefulness. They
make splendid top-dressing for gardens, and they
provide a home for rabbits in these, their declining
years. And I have often wondered if, when burrow-
ing in the dark recesses of these old deposits, Bunny
has ever come upon relics of a Long Dead Past, or
found the Missing Will, or Freetrade, or Anti-Sosh,
or any other quaint institution of some prehistoric
age.
“H. J.E.”: As “Mallarapoonie” has asked
(B. 4/4/’l2) for an explanation of the sudden death
of the eat which he placed in a centrifugal drying
machine, capable of doing 2000 to the minute, I has-
ten to oblige him. The prognosis of the case may be
set down as mortuis asinino joci causa, which, as
any ordinary bloke knows, means "dead as a re-
sult of an asinine joke.” Even at quarter-speed
pussy would be travelling at the rate of
12,000 ft. a minute, much faster than falling through
space. Pressure at this speed would be tremendous.
From “M.’s” description, the position of the cat
was such that, being in a sitting position, the blood
rushed to its head, then the highest portion of its
anatomy, and caused congestion of the brain. If
“Mallarapoonie” doubts my word he can try the ex-
periment himself, and after reading of his treatment
of a friendly animal, I’m prepared to give him every
assistance in my power.
HAPPENINGS
THAT REPEAT
THEMSELVES.
GENIAL UNCLE (a rabid teetotaler withal).
“ Did it ever occur to you , William , in
doing certain things that you had done that
same thing many times before ?"
THE IDIOT : “Bai Jove , yes, uncle! That
same thought occurred to me yesterday when
pouring myself out a whisky and soda."
YARRA FLATS.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
A spieler came to Yarra Glen upon the Yarra flats;
He wore a suit of noisy checks and something cute in
hats.
He was a wicked man, they say,
Such as they grow down Melbourne way.
A spieler gay,
From Melbourne way,
Who sought for Yarra flats.
He taught them an amusing trick with three elusive
cards ;
But with suspicion such vain things the Yarra flat
regards.
And then, with fingers mighty, quick,
He tried them with the thimble trick,
A nimble trick,
The thimble trick,
As tricky as the cards.
But still the stolid natives stood, and let him have
his say,
But always changed the subject when he wanted
them to play.
They were not parting with their “dough.”
“But now,” said they, “give us a show.
We’ll do a trick,
The river trick,
The only trick we know.
“We’U bet you fifty pounds,” they said, “that we
produce a man
Who’ll throw you clean across the river Yarra—and
he can—
Right where the stream is swift and wide,
And land you on the other side.”
“I call your bluff!
Put up the stuff!”
The spieler chap replied.
They led him to the river bank—the day was bleak
and cold—
And on his collar and his pants their strong man took
a hold.
He swung him once, he swung him twice —
(The strong man’s grip was like a vice) —
Then, with a flop,
He let him drop—-
The stream was cold as ice.
The spieler scrambled to the bank. “I’ve won!” he
cried. “I’ve won!”
“Get out!” the simple natives jeered. “Our strong
man hasn’t done.
He’s only tried it once, you fool!
He’s going to try again. Keep cool.”
“I’ve done my dash;
You take the cash,”
The spieler said : “I’m. full.”
The spieler went from Yarra Glen; his clothes were
dripping wet.
“These are,” he murmured brokenly, “the fliest flats
I’ve met.”
And, as the natives saw him off,
They cheered him on with shout and scoff;
“We’re all strong men
In Yarra Glen,
But Yarra flats are off !”
VICTORU-
DEN.


HEADACHES
Many suffer severely with headaches, but they will
derive great benefit from a course of Laxo-Tonic
Pills. The well-known laxative and tonic properties
of these pills are of wonderful effect in purifying
the blood, and toning up the system. Price, 10/d.
and 1/6.*
II fi
ikr eaitenTf
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
PLASMON OATS
Scotland s Best—“ Enormously increased
jnfood_value_by the addition of Plasmon.’*
4 Minutes Boiling; only. — Lancet,
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: 5& 7, Barraok 8t„ Byaney»
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Svdney.
Best piace to lunch and dine in town,
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“it Acts Like a Charm.”
PIL
RHEU-MANAGA
Registered Trade Mark.
This is a scientific, skilfully compounded and
potent remedy, especially designed for use in at-
tacks of either.
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuritis or Lumbago.
Each Pill contains seven different expensive
standarised and potent vegetable remedies. It
has been in use in private practice by a regular
practising physician, with miraculous success, for
many years. First offered as a public remedy on
the Ist dav of Februarv, 1912.
DO NOT DELAY! "USE PIL RHEUMANAOA
WITH THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE
DISEASE.
Supplied at 3s. per bottle. Remit by M.O. or
Postal Notes. Send direct to —-
Z. C. RENNIE, Proprietor,
P.O. BOX 1530, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Warradulla” : I utter a decisive contra-
diction to “Gilrooney’s” statement (B. 4/4/’l2), that
Bill and Jim, of far-out West, after bowling over
the hoary superstition that only Abdul and Hindu
Koosh could properly navigate the “ship of the
desert,” retired, and left the ’Ghan in sole posses-
sion of his evil-odored and lumbering schooner.
’Tis true Bill and Jim retired for a short interval,
but only to think. They sat down and considered
hard, with inventive and creative minds, and con-
trived a live-meat Dreadnought far ahead of Abdul’s
pack camel. They devised harness specially suited
for that ugly and humptious quadruped, and tied
him to a waggon. It is now a common sight to
see camel-teams driven by white men entering the
towns out West. The stations of Centralia and
nearer-in are beginning to realise that the waggon
outfit is by far the best means of transportation
for their wool, and are gradually getting their own
camel teams and, white drivers. So it will not be
long before the Cabul cove and the Beluchee bloke
are unnecessary articles along the sunset road.
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie” writes:—
The two quaintest railways in Australia, as far
j know, happen at opposite ends of the continent,,
and both belong to Private Enterprise. Until I went
West I always considered that the Stannary Hills
and Irvinebank Tramway Co.’s line held the palm or
the dough-nut as the knock-about or comic relief of
railway construction in Australia. This undertaking
(P.E. always alludes to this particular engineering
job as “an undertaking—a great undertaking, sir”)
straddles the north end of Bananaland with a 2 ft. 6in.
gauge, and contorts, or writhes, or convulshes by
way of some amazing gradients and hair-raising
curves of about a chain radius, among innumerable
granite hills. The rolling-stock is a cross between a
Black Maria and an ice-cream cart, and the biggest
part of the loco, is the spark-arrester on its funnel.
At one juncture, with a cliff on one side and a preci-
pice on the other, the strange contraption shoulders
its way round the face of a mountain in the manner
Of a goat scraping its ribs along a picket-fence. Here
the passenger, who looks out on the uphill side, gets
his whiskers scraped off, and the one who looks out
on the downhill side gets stage fright.
But the flapjack of my admiration goes to the
Margaret River-Karridale railway, which is away
down the Leeuwin Land, the quaint peninsular country
which is in Australia’s extreme south-west corner.
This line runs through a great jarrah forest, and, in-
cidentally, it adds to the gaiety of nations. Where
a jarrah giant grew in the way of construction, the
builders, to save exertion, just deviated the railway
round the trunk thereof, and returned again to the
line of progression. Where the survey line went be-
tween two trees, which grew too close together to
permit a train to pass, great hunks of timber were
scarfed out of the standing trunks to widen the public
way. And where a great tree-column had fallen
across the route, it wasn’t cleared away; two saw-
cuts were just nut through it, about Bft. apart, the
section of trunk rolled aside, and the loco, driven
through the gap. Other engineering difficulties,
which mostly comprised a landscape crowded with
timber, were likewise overcome in a manner suitable
to the occasion- Probably no other railway in Aus-
tralia was built With less personal exertion or loss
of sweat. And this is a railway which, P. Enterprise
has the hide to demand shall be taken over (with
compensation of P.E., Esq.) by the Stale. ' Some'd'aW'
a jarrah giant will fall across the Karridale
railway, and Private Enterprise will go out with
innumerable augers and a gross of mortise chisels,
and tunnel through the trunk thereof; arid then he
will hold the world’s record for promiscuousness in
wooden apertures.
Still, for all that, I suppose we shouldn’t treat
with too great levity the vagaries of Private Enter-
prise ; for the Boss Circus and Champion Fiasco of
railway construction in the Commonwealth is .-the
Bottle Neck and the Dead End at Sydney’s own
Redfern. t
TO COOL HIS FEVERED BROW.
ATTENDANT: “Lee-cream? Yes, sir. Will you
have it in wafer form ? ”
THE PRODIGAL: “No. Don' wanter eat it.
Wanter put it in me ’at.”
IT LOOKED QUITE
DIFFERENT 50
YARDS OFF.
Here’s a quaint historical patch. In the
Illustrated London News (January 4, 1862), apj
peared the following: “Advertisements have appeared,!
in the Canadian newspapers, calling for 100
to enter the . service of the Australian Cotton Asso-
ciation in N. 8/ Wales and Queensland. >■
are a free passage and £2l per annum with rations.”;
What desperate efforts did old-time Fat make to
paint the couhtry black and yellow—any ‘color but
white. ’ , i, /,
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: In two English novels and
one book of S’African short stories, read by me
within a month, I .find it declared, to the great
credit of the fine, spanking, boyish hero with the
brown neck, that dogs
took to him. It oc-
curs to me now that
I have struck the same
sentiment in scores of
stories. Female auth-
ors in particular are
victims to the pathetic
delusion that the con-
fidence of dogs is a
sufficient guarantee of
nobility of soul. This
clashes s o emphati-
cally with my know-
ledge of tykes that I
am compelled to cry
out. So' far as I can
see, if a dog has free
and unfettered choice
between a decent, well-
washed citizen, and a
caked and tattered
beat, with the morals
of a mandrill and the
appearance and atm.o7
sphere of a corporation
tip, he will embrace
the waster every time.
And I know he prefers
a dead sheep to either.
Dogs take readily to
boys, because boys are
swift in villainy, and
fly to mischief as the
sparks jump upward.
If the Cockney dog is
a dead shot for recti-
tude, and knows a pure
and generous soul on
sight, it is high time
J. BuU turned the
animal to account by
employing him to
select political candi-
dates, bank managers
and the like. Let
40,000 dogs be brought
together on election
day. Then let all the candidates whistle, and the
most dog-followed applicant be chosen.
* * * *
“S.S.” Re the discovery of a remarkable
development of carnivorous habits among sheep in
the Upper Murrumbidgee (N.S.W.) district. One ex-
pert declares that he has caught sheep eating each
other, and others eating rabbits still warm. Pos-
sibly in the latter case the ravenous jumbuck had
hunted down its hapless prey. The alarm with which
I view the prospect of Australia breeding a wild,
man-eating merino is tempered with some satisfac-
tion at the prospect of our being in a position to
provide a truly royal sport next time an almost
crowned head visits the Commonwealth. The spec-,
tacle of an armed heir-apparent fighting at the head
of a host of Union Clubbists to protect a city
from devastation by 25,000,000 blood-drunk sheep
would be a spectacle that Art and song would hand
down to the succeeding ages.
Weak emaciated children gain strength rapidly
by using Stearns’ Wine: of Cod Liver Extract. En-
riches the blood, increases the vitality and strengthens
the muscles. They like it, too.*
l The Ungrateful Bank Clerk.
From the Stout General Manager:—
What is all this Alleged discontent amongst the
bank clerks in NYS. Wales?, Is it because it takes
them about 16 years or gome such trifling period
before they obtain the exorbitant—er—salary of
£2OO per annum? It is because that, until the,
clerk is _ remunerated at that figure for his so-
called services, a kindly directorate in London will
not permit him to squander his wealth in marriage ?
Or why do the heathen gnash their cuffs and col-
lars and furiously rage together ?
Loud mutterings reach my ear against the im-
portation of clerks from England under contract?
Why, or, as Mr. Bruce Smith’s well-known friend
would say, “Whaffor?” Are not those clerks
handed anything from : £lO a month to about £l2
a month? Ingratitude and the unreasonable de-
mands of the masses are the curse of this fair
young country; but I thought, nay, I was sure, that
our—er —colonial clerk had the interests of his
Bank too much at heart to have classed his English
brother as cheap labor. Besides, let the grumblers
—who are, no doubt, Socialists and supporters of
the disgraceful Australian National Bank, which I,
and Premier McGowen and Attorney-General Hol-
man and the Daily Telegraph, are so strenuously
opposing—remember that the reserve fund must be
added to every half-year; bank premises account must
be written down; and the dividend maintained for
the shareholders in dear old England.
Anyhow, there is very little difference between
the salaries paid by certain English banks and those
paid in, for instance, the Commercial Bank of
Sydney. Observe: —
O. B. of Sydney. English Bank.
Tellers (minimum) .. £3OO p.a. (average).. £2OO p. a.
Bill Clerks (average) .. 250 „ ~ 150
bedger keepers (mi nimum)2so „ (minimum) 150 ”
Cash book clerks (average) 180 ~ (average).. 110
Exchange clerks 300 ~ ~ 140 ”
Assistants (average) 200 ~ >t ’ JlO ”
No. of years to reach £2OO p.a. ” ”
(maximum) .. ... - 9 (minimum) 14
(average) 17 „
In addition, in place of the vote of thanks handed
to the quill-driver in the English banks, the C.B.
of Sydney distributes a half-yearly bonus of a mere
2 per cent, and an additional 10 per cent, bonus in
good years. So you see there is only a beggarly
discrepancy of £lOO or so in the rates of pay.
And what’s £lOO in these prosperous times, I’d like
to know?
So sordid have some of the men become that
even a country branch manager here and there has
been affected. One manager’s salary was £375
when the branch office profit was £l5OO, but
although he improved the business in five years so
much that the profit was £15,000, and his salary
had soared to £350, he actually resigned. Dis-
loyalty could go no further. I .hope there is to be
no more of it, and that the last has been heard of
matters of purely domestic policy of the banks,
such as tellers at a salary of £l5O a vear handling
from £5OOO to £60,000 daily; of clerks serving
and 13 years before they are liable to receive
£3 a week; of boys doing men’s work for pocket
money; of annual leave being blocked unless forced
with a medical certificate; of long night work
without payment for overtime. The reiteration of
these things can do no good to the Bank, and might
even end in the loss of business.
THE BEST PROOF.
There is no question that Chamberlain’s Tablets
are the best preparation on the market to-day for
all derangements of the stomach and bowels. There
is no better proof of this than that every person who
has benefited by their use wishes all other sufferers
to know of Chamberlain’s Tablets. Mrs. S. L. Mor-
rison, Humifray Street, Ballarat (Vie.), says: “Both
my mother and I are firm believers in Chamberlain’s
Tablets. We have used them for stomach and liver
troubles, and have found them effective. The use of
most pills is followed by constipation, but Chamber-
lain s Tablets are so mild and gentle in their action
that they have no bad after effects.”*
Some Observations on Straight Lines and
Curves.
The words of “Curse o’ Moses” :
A straight line is that which lies evenly between its
extreme points, and a corkscrew that which extracts
delight from glassy receptacles of liquid joy. Both
are good things in their way; but a needlessly
crooked railway is about the worst implement, or
invention, or contraption, for going a straight jour-
ney. You cannot hit very straight if you hold a
straight gun crooked, and, as a crooked gun cannot
be held straight, and couldn’t fire straight if it could,
the only reasonable chance you have of hitting a
thing you aim at is to get a straight gun and hold it
straight. As a transcontinental railway is practically
a weapon of national defence, it follows that the laws
which apply to guns apply to it also, and that, as the
railway is to serve no purpose which in the least
resembles the service rendered to humanity by a
corkscrew, a railway built after the similitude of a
corkscrew is a sin, and a shame, and a proof of the
builder’s insanity. At the time when Nicholas I.
was doing the Great White Czar act, some persons
came grovelling on the imperial doormat, with a re-
quest that a certain railway between St. Peters-
burg and Moscow should receive his sacred sanction.
The line was mostly arranged to call at the wolf-parks
and summer palaces of persons of large and noble
girth. Nicholas looked at the plans, frowned a
great white frown, swore a large black remark which
sounded in his beard like a bad attack of hay-fever,
and ruled a straight line across the map. He also
said, “Build it that way,” and all of the line that
was built in his time went that way. The yarn is
most likely a lie, but that obscure disability attaches
to so many yarns. A glance at the Roman map of
Britain is an instructive affair. The “Via Devana”
was not deviated to Queensland, or Samoa, or Cis-
Alpine Gaul, or any other interesting place, but got
across from Chester to Colchester in the quickest way
possible. Similarly, the “Foss Way” has hardly a
kink from Somersetshire to Lincoln, and even among
the most up-and-down mountains of Wales there were
military roads with 40-mile stretches of absolutely
straight going. The Northern Territory railway will
be as much a military road as the old “Watling-
street.” To carry troops with the greatest possible
speed, to the point where the most possible enemy
may be hit the greatest possible bump, is
the first purpose for which it is necessary to link up
Port Darwin with the South. If any Government
wants a line constructed in circles, which would
make a well-ordered locomotive giddy, it may have
use or reason of its own for it, or it may merely
intend the thing as a great national effort at humor,
but a railway for the country’s defence must go
strn’ght and quick.
♦
“The Uncommercial Traveller” writes; —
If Johnson, N.S.W.’s railway magnate, could only
be induced to lay aside his greatness for a day, dis-
guise himself as a Wowser, and go on a tour, he
would learn something which might help hipi to make
his, at present, blastiferous department more lucra-
tive, to the State, as well as convenient to his un-
fortunate passengers. Hidden in a monkey-shave and
chin-whiskers, he should descend on any of the
suburban ticket windows, and calculate how many
passengers miss their trains because those windows
are .undermanned. At present one man would appear
to have four windows to attend to, as well as sundry
books. If someone blows along and requires an ex-
cess fare, the whole line of passengers is held up
while the only clerk in attendance laboriously writes
out the thing by hand; and it seems to take about
three minutes to issue an excess fare. On a railway
station three minutes are calculated to put a lot of
people out of their stride. Then, if he wandered
along to catch the 4.30 p.m., 5 p.m., and 5.20 p.m.
suburban trains from Sydney, he would find that
though he had only a second-class ticket, there is
nothing to stop him travelling first-class. No one
will examine his ticket more than once in a month,
when some inspector makes his occasional raid. But
should he make for the 5.38 p.m., he will find a
changed atmosphere. All the doors are locked, and
a porter is on guard at each carriage, and this func-
tionary will flatly refuse to open the door till the
ticket is produced. But, barring the 5.38 p.m., he
is free to sprawl anywhere, step out of his station,
hand over his ticket at the gate, and depart in peace
with all the world. On the Sydney-Parramatta sec-
tion it is quite a common occurrence for little
parties to travel first-class on second-class tickets.
If a man is honest he will pay for 7s. 9d. worth of
locomotion between Mt. Victoria and Sydney; but
there is no reason why he should do it unless he is
inclined. He can take an lid. ticket from Mt. Vic-
toria to Katoomba, change there into a first-class
carriage, and sit tight till he arrives at Parramatta
at 6.24 a.m. They make nice coffee in the refresh-
ment room at Parramatta, and if he steps off there
he has 10 minutes to get his coffee, buy a shilling
ticket to Sydney, and catch the 5.34 a.m., and
thereby sustain the flesh and save ss. lOd. on the
legal cost of his journey. And if the struggling
denizen of the neglected back country travels very
often it is worth it. This swindle is capable of in-
finite elaboration, and only a proper system of
ticket-checking will knock it out.
4
“Unionist”; It’s just about time the public
was given the filll strength of the New South
Wales Labor, of alleged Labor, Government
in regard to the wages it is paying. Here’s
my bit towards it. On the Northern Rivers
there is a steam ferry award which compels
Private Enterprise to pay the following
rates: —
Glass A.. Masters 13 4 o.. Drivers £3 0 0 per week
Class 8.. „ 217 6.. „ 217 6 „ „
Glass O.. „ 212 6.. „ 215 0 „ „
Firemen, £2 6 0 per week
But the Government refuses to pay the same
rates. Its masters and engineers are all
Class A, yet the wage they receive is £2 17s.
per week. In fact, at Grafton the men do
not receive £2 175., and, although deputa-
tion after deputation has waited on Works
Minister Griffith, no change has been
signalled in the offing. You can believe it
or not, but this is the same Minister who,
not many months since, brayed in public that
he fully realised that “the Government
should be an ideal employer.” Seeing that
this. ideal employer is asking—or, rather,
forcing—at least one fireman I know to
keep a wife and family on seven bob a day,
I’d admire to have Minister Griffith’s
definition of a reprehensible employer.


THE DISQUALIFIED.
Ex-Premier Wade, of N.S.W., recently declared that a man must be either an unqualified Liberal or an unqualified
Laborite. Failing that, he was an unqualified humbug.
Grasshopper WADE (to grasshopper McGOWEN, among the tombs) : “Tell you what, we’ll divide all the world’s political wisdom between us,
and disqualify everybody who doesn’t think as we do.”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Qm Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some rewards for Virtue assume peculiar
shapes. For instance, Mr. A. A Dangar, ot
Singleton (N.S.W.), has been a munificent
supporter of tlie local hospital, and of a new
church in his neighborhood. So the author-
ities of the church have decided that he
shall be rewarded by having permission to
construct a burial-place for himself and his
wife under the chancel of the building, which
is much the same as presenting him with a
really good coffin. Part of the property
owned by Mr. A. A. Dangar was at one time
known as Castle Forbes, and was owned by
the notorious ruffian, Major Mudie.
“Vic.” recalls an old-time writer: —
“Orion” Horne is too much overlooked by this gen-
eration. Richard Henry Horne was a London native.
Changed his middle name to Hengist. Dick started
as a midshipman
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister for Eternal Affairs.
in the Mexican
service. Figured
next in the United
States and Canada.
Shipwrecked in the
Gulf of St. Law-
r e -nee. Proceeded
to England in a
ship whose voyage
was diversified by
mutiny and fire.
He acquired a high
position in the
London literary
world. Government
Commissioner o n
the employment of
children. His re-
port inspired Eliza-
beth Barrett
Browning’s “Cry
of the Children.”
His epic poem of
“Orion,” published
in 1843, was popu-
lar, and quite ex-
travagantly praised
by Edgar Allan
Poe, even as Ten-
nyson had welcom-
ed Bailey's “Fes-
tus.” In 1847 h e
married, not hap-
pily, a Miss Foggs.
Came to Australia
in 1852 with How-
i 11. Became a
commander of the
Victorian gold es-
cort, a goldfields
commissioner and
a magistrate. Re-
mained in Aus-
tralia till 1869.
Wrote his poem of
“Prometheus, t h e
Fire-bringer,” in the bush, and also penned a masque
called “The South Sea Sisters,” for the Melbourne
exhibition of 1866. His published works include:
“Australian Facts and Prospects,” “Letters from
Elizabeth Barrett Browning,” “Life of Napoleon,”
“Tragedies of Cosmo de Medici,” “Death of Mar-
lowe” (highly reputed and once acted in Melbourne),
“Gregory V 11.,” and “Judas Iscariot,” besides other
books. Very much of him remains, or remained, in
MS., including plays, poems, romances, and a work
called “Ancient Idols, or the Fall of the Gods,”
which he regarded as his masterpiece. He played
the guitar and sang well, but was most noted for
swimming and whistling. He was short, clean-shaven,
except for a little moustache, and had long, silvery
white hair, brushed behind his ears. The aquiline
contour of his face might be called a mixture of
Swinburne and Jerrohl.
There’s nothing much in a headache—if you are
familiar with Stearns’ Headache Cure. Convenient
to carry, taken in a jiffy, headache gone in another.*
A notice of the death of one Robert Dud-
ley Sidney Powys Herbert in his 83rd year
appeared in the Sydney papers of April 13.
Nobody outside the deceased’s family knew
that this string of names referred to a Cus-
toms agent, who for 60 years had been
called R. D. Adams. Back in the Crimean
War decade he renounced his claim to an
estate, dropped a name which came down to
him from the famous Lord Herbert of Cher-
bury, and shipped to Australia. It was done
in the interest of a relative. For some
obscure reason, lie gave his word that,
so far as his name and claim were
concerned, he would blot himself out,
and for 60 years he never left N.S.W.,
and blotted so effectively that even his chil-
dren didn’t learn his identity till after his
death. Jn the '7o’s and thereabouts he wrote
a good deal about Australia for English
papers, and filled many pages of the T. and
C. Journal with reviews and Averse.
A hook of his verse called “Songs of the
Stars,” by “Alpha Crucis,” ivas published
in London in 1883.
THE ONLY ALTERNATIVE.
“ And what would yon be only for my money?''
“ A bachelor, my dear , a bachelor!”
A pair of notable ladies were sentenced
to two months’ hard labor each for breaking
windows in London —Mrs. W. W. Jacobs
and Dr. Ethel Smyth. The former is the wife
of the writer of sea stories. He explained to
the Court that she had been a good quiet wife
and an unwarlike mother until she fell
under the influence of suffragette women,
ana was led by them into joining the Bush.
He deeply regretted her falling away into
bottle-o habits. Dr. Ethel Smyth is the lead-
ing lady musical composer of England. She
has had an opera, “The Wreckers,” produced
at Covent Gardens and a Mass at the Albert
Hall. A number of her songs have achieved
success and distinction.
“Looking Backward” writes :
In his mention of “Cooper’s History of Prahran,”
“Monkbarns” (B. 4/4/’l2) has a line or two about
Graham Berry’s sojourn there. Two of the old-time
Premiers of Victoria—Munro and Graham—were at
the same time dwellers in the shoppy city. James
Munro, politician, Premier, disastrous banker, lament-
able building society promoter, and crazy land
boomer, started his Australian career, so far as is
known, as the owner of a very small grocery
business in Prahran. Presumably, he was
ruined by somebody stealing a bottle of pickles,
for later he drifted to a printing office, smelling
round for employment, and he was not above taking
a paste bucket and brush and sticking up bills.
Graham Berry groceried with more success. At
first he was not licensed to sell fermented and totter-
ing liquors, but he could always find a bottle for a
trusted customer; whereas Munro was a life-long
Reehabite, and gnashed his teeth every time he
passed an hotel. Berry made several attempts to
enter the municipal council, but the Prahran rate-
payers always rejected him. He was too big a man
to be appreciated.
Aloysius Kelly, brother of Bowes and
Hubert and the late George, and the largest
of all the large Kellys, being built somewhat
on the lines of a freight locomotive, goes to
the Territory for a six months’ study of the
mining chances. Aloysius brought his 6ft.
(fin. of meat and energy into Broken Hill
28 years ago —his first job being the sinking
of a tank for the Broken Hill Prop. Since
then he has tackled all sorts of mining pro-
positions in Australia, which he swears by,
and South Africa, which he swears at. A
recent management of his was the Central
Balfour, but the persistence of the quartzite
disgusted at last even the patient big man,
and he’s glad to be out of the Polar-bear
weather of the Tasmanian west coast and
off to the Territory, where there are 365
days of sunshine in the year.
Passed the home signal last week after 72
years on the journey, Henry B. Howe, who
arrived in Sydney from England 63 years
ago. In 1864 he joined the N.S.W. railway
service as a mechanic, and gradually ad-
vanced till he became, in turn, foreman in
the machine shop (1872), general foreman
of the workshops, and general works manager
at Eveleigh (1889). When it was decided
to build engines at Eveleigh, Howe was
entrusted with the installation of the plant,
and was responsible in no small degree for
placing the patriotic experiment on the right
side of the ledger. He was a member of the
London Institute of Mechanical Engineers
and the American Master Mechanics’ Asso-
ciation, and for a couple of years was presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Engineering Association.
“N ”' Tom Mann, in his resolve to pull
down' the palace of the Philistines, a la
Samson, recalls the gnat which buzzed round
the dome of St. Peter’s, at Rome, and wept
because it was his mission to destroy that
edifice.
“Vic.” : Flickered out at London recently,
Spriggs, who shared the leadership of Mel-
bourne spiritualistic circles with Stanford
and Terry. In addition to foretelling the
future and uncovering the past, he was a
telepathic healer, and cured probably as
many imaginary invalids as the next man.
It was a quaint circumstance that Stead,
of Borderland and the Review of Reviews,
and once of the Small Gal Gazette, should
be among the lost of the Titanic. Stead was
probably the only man of the ship’s company
who kept a tame ghost in his back yard at
home. And the prophetic spirit, which he
had housed and fed and kennelled and paid
spook-tax on for all these years, didn’t warn
him. If his heir hunts Julia right off the
premises it will be no more than she deserves.
“Comrade” Holland, the thrilling republi-
can who named l 'his son “Roy” (i.e., king),
uses bitter language about the youths who
have done their scrap of military exercise,
and calls them “trained murderers.” This
idea causes a rush of thought to the head.
Holland, as a man who pays taxes to sup-
port the Australian army and navy, is, by
his own showing, a hirer and employer of
murderers. A really logical Holland would
calculate his share of the murder bill, deduct
it from whatever direct tax he has to pay,
and defy the authorities to collect. Or else
he would shake the whole murderous busi-
ness off his feet, and wash his hands like
Pilate, the Dago of long ago, and retire to
be a naked but innocent Holland on a coral
island.
“D.” writes :
The weird inconsequence of the Tory mind was
divertingly exemplified at Muiwillumbah (N.S.W.)
the other day. One T. A. Winterton, an area officer,
was assailed by a vet. named Harold Bowker, for
having voted Labor at the last Federal elections.
According to the evidence in the local police court,
“Bowker fiercely demanded of Winterton by what
right he had voted for Labor.” Winterton, instead
of curtly instructing the absurd animal-medico to
cease making an ass of himself and to hie him to his
horse bolusery, answered civilly: “That, as a military
man, he considered the Labor party had the best
scheme for national defence.” Whereupon “defendant
became enraged, and said that a man who voted that
way was not fit for the position held by Winterton,
and that in any officers’ mess he would be snubbed,
if not blackballed.” After further similar comment,
he added, “Look at the way you hold your spoon.”
It recalls to me a delicious experience of years ago.
I was at the purser’s table on a mail steamer. My
personality or something was antipathetic to the
purser, who was a kind of inarticulate Bruce Smith.
Such social or political opinions as I disclosed
caused the worthy fellow to bristle with annoyance,
and breathe stertorously through the nose, by way of
expressing dissent. There came a night when some-
one mentioned the question of Arbitration and Con-
ciliation—tlien in its infancy. I opined that the
principle was a good one. The frenzied purser could
contain himself no longer. Leaning towards me with
a look of unutterable hatred on his foolish old face,
he hissed: “D’yer want to know what I think of you,
ole man? No? Well, I’ll tell yer. I think yer a
blessed ole pro-Boer.” The spectacle of a public con-
troversy between this superb humorist and the Mur-
willumbah horse and cow physicker would be worth a
long journey.
The press and the world generally seem to
be out to give Bruce Ismay a bad time for
escaping from the smashed Titanic. Josepii
Bruce Ismay is managaing director and
chairman of the International Mercantile
Marine Co., the huge combine engineered
by Pierpont Morgan ; and son of that Thomas
Henry Ismay who, in 1868, founded, in
conjunction with Imrie and Tomlinson, of
Liverpool, the Oceanic S.N. Co., which be-
came the world-famous White Star line,
called after the line of Australian clipper
ships taken over by Ismay in 1867. He was
virtual owner of the lost leviathan, and he
escaped, leaving his captain to go down.
Ismay had a special chance to reach out for
fame by ordering the captain to g 9, and
taking his place. But he didn’t, and it may
be a good thing for those who travel by
ships that he didn’t. He has had the fright of
his life, and for the moment at least he has
seen the wickedness and folly of fast travel-
ling under dangerous conditions, and the
iniquity of carrying more passengers than
there are boats to accommodate. If he pro-
poses to start a reform, he has plenty of
scope, for he controls the White Star, the
Red Star, the American, the Atlantic Trans-
port, the Leyland and Dominion lines.
“10-2-4” : Literary men will not be wholly
inconsolable over the death of one of the
Titanic’s passengers: viz., James Young,
of Minneapolis, U.S. For many years it had
been his practice to run to earth every
author of any note, and elicit from him not
only an autographed copy of his works,
but that most difficult and brain-racking of
all compositions, a new and characteristic in-
scription. It is said that men of high men-
tality have been driven almost demented in
the effort to think out a suitable tag for the
delectation of the late Young. Max Beer-
bohm told Norman Lindsay, the other day,
that he once saw an elderly writer of emin-
ence, who had fallen into the grip of Mr.
Young, and the spectacle was indeed a sad
one. He sat forlornly at a vast desk, while
the American stood in a resolute and watch-
ful poSe nearby. Desperately did the great
man gnaw his nails, dash his hands through
his hair and slap his brow\ In vain. In-
spiration refused to come. At last, with the
air of one making a fatal plunge, he seized
his life’s work, frenziedly wrote in it. and
dashed mutely from the room. _ The collector
bounded panther-like on his prize, and found
inscribed the words: “To Mr. Jas. Young,
with the Author’s comps.” Mr. Young was
a millionaire, and could truthfully say that
he had had speech with every prominent
writer in Europe and America.
“Curse o’ Moses” :
Joe Hanan, the new Maoriland Minister, was the
youngest Mayor Invercargill ever possessed. He lost
all his hair grappling with the municipal problems
of that cold little city of the iceberged south.
Prior to his political beginnings he was a sprint
runner of repute, and hoary sinners remember with
joy one glad day when he breasted the tape a winner
with the garments, which should have covered his
nakedness, split from Dan to Beersheba, the while a
shocked official ran round the sports ground, crying
to Heaven and earth for the loan of a fig-leaf.
“ft.” : How beauteous are the royal roads !
The Prince of Wales learnt all about navi-
gation in a few months aboard H.M.S.
Hindustan. Now he is to learn all about
Paris, and the French language, with elec-
tric rapidity. Later, he will go for a month
or two to Oxford, and another monlh or two
to Cambridge, and so learn all about learn-
ing. In the days of the French Re-
volution, before the quarrel with Bri-
tain, Petion was sent over to London to
bring back a full report on English law.
He got the necessary information by sitting
two whole days in the Old Bailey, and re-
turned to Paris fully primed.
Inez Bensusan. the clever Sydney pen-
woman and aspiring actress of yore, is a
shining light of the Actresses’ Franchise
League in Fogopolis. A matinee perform-
ance at the Rehearsal Theatre, in aid of the
league's exchequer, introduced Miss Ben-
susan as Mrs. Chicky, a Suffragette, in a
dualogue with a contentious matron. The
anti-suffrage lady falls back on the ancient
superstition that “husband and wife are
one,” whereupon Mrs. Chicky stirs the heart
of her audience by asking, “Which one?”
“Rimu”: The shake-things-up element in
the new Maoriland Administration is repre-
sented by Laurenson, Hanan, Ell and Rus-
sell. Of these, Laurenson is by far the big-
gest from the point of view of t* e quantity of
deep consideration covered by his hat. For
years he has been the outstanding fighter of
the party, and has battered his reforming
soul against the large, unemphatic mud wall
of Wardism. Now that he has a show, it is
a 50 to one chance that something will be
done. Foolish persons mistake Laurenson’s
good nature for weakness, but he never yet
yielded on a point of principle, and that they
well know who took care to exclude him
from former Ministries. His first entrance
into politics was remarkable. His opponent
died on the very eve of an election for Lyt-
telton, and left him a walk-over. He has
held the seat ever since.
“Sinnik” tells a true tale: —
I found this in a recent issue of London Win-
ning Post: —
“Colin Defries, who startled the natives by his
daring flying feats in Australia the other day, has
become positively cautious since he embarked on mat-
rimony. Not only has he practically abandoned aero-
planing, but his very motoring lacks something of
its old nerveless dash,” etc., etc.
PROFESSOR
GIL RUTH,
The new
Administrator of the
Northern Territory.
(Another version.)
I saw a good deal
of Defries when he
was in these parts a
year or so ago. Nine
several times did I go
to observe his flying
feats, and he never
once rose an inch from
terra firma, or tried
to. It was his invari-
able custom to appear,
elaborately garbed as
though for a flight
across the Atlantic in
mid-winter, prowl fate-
fully around his ma-
chine (what time those
who were unacquainted
with his methods sent
up silent prayers for
the safety of the reck-
less lad), gaze re-
proachfully at the stilly
atmosphere, mutter a
few remarks detrimen-
tal to the character of
the local weather, and
presently st r ide
thoughtfully behind the
grandstand of the sub-
urban racecourse, where
a trusting public paid
to see him, and appear
no more. The most
dashing feat I ever saw
him perform consisted
in running his aero-
plane along the grass
for 30 or 40 yards. A
portion of one of the
planes thereupon fell
off, out of sheer sur-
prise or shock or some-
thing, and the pr o-
ceedings terminated.
There was a vague
rumor that Defries
had flown in Sydney
on one occasion. The
alleged flight was al-
leged to have occurred
in the early morning,
when nobody but his
mechanics and the
fowls were about;
but no photographs of
the performance were
available, no pressmen
saw the deed, no
householders were
awakened by the roar
of the passing engine
—in fact, it was an
extremely unobtrusive,
not to say furtive, as-
cent. The plain fact is
that Colin Defries did
not astonish the na-
tives as a flier. The impression he left behind
him was that of an affable, well-groomed young man,
with nice hair and a good figure for a flying-suit, an
impressive method of smoking the cigarette (which
was, in those days, an essential feature of the air-
man’s make-up), a studied appearance of recklessness
while on the ground, and a dogged resolution to stay
there. If that Winning Post par. is any criterion,
England is about the easiest place in which to achieve
a reputation for heroism or what not on the habit-
able globe.
“The Gallery Hand” : Don’t wish to enter
into a wrangle with “Reinu” (B. 11/4/ 12),
who denies ray statement that Iousepn
Ward, late Premier of Maoriland, has a gift
of language. When “Reinu” says, Never
once did Ward complete a decently-rounded
sentence according to his first intention, 1
retire in disorder, leaving my baggage on
the battlefield, because, not being gifted with
prophecy or thought-transference, I have
never been aware of Ward’s intentions when
he commenced a sentence. As for the re-
mark that Iou “had always the gift of say-
ing in 20 minutes what a plain, blunt per-
son like Tom Mackenzie could make clear
in five,” Mackenzie has been, in Parliament
for more than five minutes—in fact, for 25
years—and hasn’t made his political prin-
ciples clear yet.
MILLIONAIRE’S SON IN TEARS.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Mr. Vincent Astor, son of Colonel John Jacob
Astor, the American millionaire, was in conference
for an hour with the vice-president of the W hite Star
Company, and departed in tears. There is every
reason to fear that his father has perished.
-—Argus cable item.
The son of a millionaire
Has wept for a father dead.
If you have a sigh to spare
Now let it be freely shed.
Have you a heart to throb with pain,
Or rise and swell like the bounding main,
Prithee, read yon paragraph once again:
The son of a millionaire
Has wept for his father dead.
Ye gods! What a headline sad
To get with our morning meal!
The child of a foundered dad
His sorrow could not conceal.
In commonplace manner he found relief,
He “made no bones” of his human grief,
But wiped his eyes with a handkerchief.
Ye gods ! What a headline sad
To get with our morning meal!
For citizens poor and mean,
How bitter the passing thought,
That an Astor has been seen
To weep like a bloke distraught!
When Grim Death comes with a croaking call
To the millionaire, as he comes to all,
From a rich son’s eyes salt tear-drops fall.
For citizens poor and mean
How bitter this passing thought !
Oh, why do the papers print
Such terrible bits of news,
Which agonise hearts of flint.
And sorely distress the Jews?
When a poor man goes where the rich men go
No journals refer to his children’s woe ;
We never learn whether they wept or no !
Oh, why do the papers print
Such terrible bits of news?
VICTORIA.
O. K.


*
//
<7
o^s
7\ //,
iiiiii
fttttl
XVSJ
&
y
/-
Why not
smoke
the best?—
Capstan
Navy Cut
The celebrated brand of
W.D.&H.O. WILLS.
OBTAINABLE ALSO
IN
PLUG FORM


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR ®r MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Cataloguas and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
ORE BUYERS.
Cash Advances Made Against Consignments.
CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED.
EDWARDS’ ORE REDUCTION COMPANY,
HEAD OFFICE: SEBASTOPOL, BALLARAT.
Telephone N 0.—283 Cable Address PYRITIC,” BALLARAT. f 2
The WILD CATE
COUMN
A censor of public companies, who would
pass judgment on the new institution before it began
to take the public's money and assure the community
that it was a feasible affair, and a State auditor who
would inspect it regularly in later years, are two
officials whose appointment is worth consideration.
This remark is inspired by the advt. of the Williams-
Endicott Banking Corporation, Limited, now, or
lately appearing in certain Sydney papers. This con-
cern offers to the public First Mortgage Debentures,
bearing 7 p.e. interest and “secured on the Finest
Buildings to be erected in Sydney." (Tim Bulle-
tin's italics.) It is added that: “All the Buildings
are practical office buildings and residential fiats.
They ure designed by architects of international repu-
tation," etc., etc. (Again The Bulletin's italics.)
The debentures “in denominations of £2O, £5O and
£100” are a direct appeal to the small man, and the
small man often doesn't know much about finance.
.Just because he often doesn’t know much, the advt.
which appeals to him should contain a great deal
more information than this one does. The copy now
lying before the writer doesn’t say: —
(1) Where the Williams-Endicott Banking Corpora-
tion (capital described as £200,000, of which
£lOO,OOO is paid up) hails from. There is a tem-
porary address in Bull’s Chambers, Moore-street, and
;a future address (after May 1) in the Mutual Life
Building, but whether this is the head office, or a
branch from somewhere else, and, if so, from where
.else, doesn’t appear.
(2) When the Banking Corporation was established.
(3) The front name of Williams, also of Endicott,
:and their addresses.
(4) The names and addresses of directors, auditors
.and general manager—assuming that Williams and
lEndicott don’t manage the business here themselves.
(5) When and where the £160,000 capital was
ipaid up, and how it is invested pending the com-
mencement of building operations.
(6) What business, if any, the Banking Corporation
lias done in the past, and where.
(7) The location of the buildings that are to be
erected.
(8) Why it is necessary to offer the remarkably high
interest of 7 p.e. Even assuming that it was pro-
posed to put up £300,000 worth of buildings in one
act, a company with £160,000 paid up should be
able to put a good deal of its own money into the
enterprise, and with a decent margin of security one
would think it should be possible to get the rest of
the cash easily at 5 p.e., assuming that the enterprise
was one that appealed to capitalists—the kind who
are acquainted with financial affairs and can recognise
a sound proposition.
These are strictly pertinent questions. The new
bank, which has arrived so suddenly, sets itself forth
to be, in point of paid-up capital, larger than the
Bank of North Queensland, or the National Bank of
Tasmania, or the Ballarat Banking Co., and nearly
half as large as the Bank of Adelaide, City Bank of
Sydney, Colonial Bank, or Royal Bank (Melbourne).
Also, it is very close up to the size of the Commer-
cial Bank of Tasmania and the West Australian Bank.
All these are well-known institutions which any Aus-
tralian can find when he wants them, and their history
is well known. The new institution isn’t well known,
and when it bursts upon the public with an
which gives very little information and offers 7 p.e.
interest, curiosity is naturally aroused. None of the
banks that Australia is acquainted with offer anything
like 7 p.e.
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) : _
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1903.. £6,81!) 6 p.e. = £4,500 £2.319 £34,414
Mar., 1904.. 7,556 6 ~ „ 4,500 3,056 37,470
Sept., 1904.. 7,333 6 ~ „ 4,500 2,833 40,303
Mar., 1905.. 8,335 6 ~ ~ 4,500 3,835 44,138
Sept., 1905.. 8,238 6 ~ „ 4,500 3,738 47,876
.Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 ~ „ 5,250 4,822 52,698
Sept., 1906.. 10,179 7 ~ „ 5,250 4,929 57,627
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 70,127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7 p.e. = 5,687 7,195 77,322
Sept., 1907.. 14.619 7 „ „ 7,000 7,619 84,941
Mar., 1908.. 13,517 7 „ „ 7,000 6,517 91,458
Sept., 1908.. 14,697 7 „ ~ 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 111,655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.e. = 10,062 7.941 119,596
Sept., 1909.. 17,974 7 ~ ~10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 „ „ 10,500 8,049 135,119
Sept., 1910.. 18,544 7 „ „ 10,500 8,344 143,463
Mar. 1911.. 20,529 7 ~ ~ 10,500 10,029 153,492
Sept.’, 1911.. 20,180 7 „ ~10,500 9,680 163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 „ „ 12,000 10,771 173,943
’this is a sturdy little institution. The paid-up capital
is £300,000, so the reserves ( £173,943) are exceed-
ingly solid by comparison. Almost the whole of these
reserves have been accumulated inside a dozen years.
When all the financial ill-luck that had ever been
heard of struck Melbourne in 1893, the Royal Bank
was a five-year-old infant, with a single office, a re-
serve fund'of £5OOO, a half-year’s profit of about
£2500, a suspended dividend, and about £330,000
of deposits. It might have been supposed that the in-
fant would sink and leave not a ripple on the face of
the great financial waters. Certainly it looked a
small thing compared with (say) the City of Mel-
bourne Bank, now quite dead and buried in parts un-
known. But the infant institution was vigorous, and
it was almost the only one in its city that didn’t
suspend. It plodded straight on, paying 20s. in the
£, and looking everybody in the face. Nowadays it
ranks very high among Australian banks for solidity
—higher 'than some that are several times its size.
It has £1,094,389 of cash and liquid assets against
about £2,800,000 of liabilities to the public, and its
liquid assets exceed all its liabilities at call. The
half-year’s profits would be sufficient to pay a 15 p.e.
dividend if the directors had desired to go on an
heroic burst and throw caution to the winds, which,
fortunately, they did not.
The following figures furnish a tale of steady pro-
gress. They are specially interesting by reason of the
great increase in the liquid assets and the very
heavy writing down of premises. Whether that
means that the directors of the Royal think they fore-
see the end of the present boom, and are taking in
sail early, or whether it is a mere incident, there is
nothing to show : —•
Mar.,’ll. Mar., T 2.
Notes in circulation.. £18,917 £1,649 Dec.£17,268
Bills in circulation .. 157,586 114,219 Dec. 43,367
Deposits at interest.. 1,223,299 1,337,018 Inc. 113,719
Free deposits .. .. 711,291 782.363 Inc. 71,072
Liquid assets .. .. 841,998 1,094,389 Inc. 252,391
Advances .. .. 1,670,738 1,570,155 Dec. 100,583
Premises .. .. 63,545 57,700 Dec. 5,845
Some other interesting figures are as follows: —
Profits as Compared with Shareholders' Funds.
Sept., 1908.. £lO 1 8 p.e. Sept., 1910.. £8 13 3 p.e.
Mar., 1909.. 9 311 ~ Mar., 1911.. 9 5 2 „
Sept., 1909.. 811 4 ~ 5ept.,1911.. 817 10 ~
Mar., 1910.. 813 9 ~ Mar., 1912.. 916 8 „
The return is very handsome for an institution which
keeps so large a proportion of liquid assets. But the
Royal of Australia is an unusual bank. For a long:
time it had only one office, and though it has spread
a little of late years, it still has very few offices, and
they lie within a very narrow radius. Thus it runs
a condensed business at small expense. Comparing it
with the Colonial Bank of the same city, which has
also just issued its report, this is the position:—
Gross Profits. Expenses. Net Profit.
Royal.. ..£34,210 .. £11,439 .. £22,771
Colonial . . 66,766 . . 37,902 . . 28,864
The Colonial Bank has a fine reputation for solidity,
but its business is more widely scattered than that of
the Royal; it has more branches to maintain in pro-
portion to the earnings, and the costs eat away the
takings. Yet the Colonial is condensed and economi-
cal compared with some, of its contemporaries. In
the way of spreading a moderate-sized business over
an absurdly large space, and maintaining a very large
number of managers and staffs to run a very ordinary
show, two Australian banks —it is needless to raise
ill-feeling by mentioning them —hold the record.
An interesting evidence of the pioneering
spirit is the prospectus of the Northern Territory
and North-West Settlements Corporation. The capi-
tal is £ 1,000,000, in “35,000 pioneer shares, carry-
ing preference at £ 1 per share, and ordinary shares
at 2s. 6d. per share." The number of ordinary shares
isn't mentioned, nor is it stated whether the ordinal - }’
shares are fully paid up at 2s. 6d., or whether it is
simply proposed to call up 2s. 6d. Presumably, how-
ever, they are half-crown shares. There are five
directors mentioned, one of whom is also secretary,
with no address or occupation against a single name,
save that of the secretary. They are not especially
well-known names, either; in fact, the writer can’t
say that he ever heard of more than one of them be-
fore, and he didn’t hear of that one in connection
with commercial or financial affairs. The prospectus
whoops largely and vaguely about the future. It pro-
poses “to acquire, by purchase or otherwise, and to
consolidate or subdivide, as the case may be, certain
interests already in existence in the Territory, and in
other parts of North and North-western Australia.”
But it doesn't say what these interests are, or whose
they are, or what is their value, or what price is to
be paid for them, or how they are to be acquired if
not by purchase. And it also states that “There are
no debentures, bonds or contracts, and no other agree-
ments than those of the articles of association.” So,
apparently, no arrangement has yet been fixed with
the owners of the unspecified “interests already in
existence.”
A good many lofty sentiments adorn the prospectus,
and in between these it proposes to do things that
look a great deal too vast for its capital. In addition
to the acquisition of the “interests” already hinted at,
it proposes to establish “freezing and cold storage,”
pioneer farms, stations and model townships, to
“open up lines of communication,” to “establish
primary industries,” to “instal and operate power
plants, either electric, gas, or other or for lighting,'’
and to attend to “other utilities.” And at the same
time, “The fact that every 2s. 6d. of share value
held will carry with it a right to a loan of £5OO at
nominal interest, when its number is successful at
balloting, and will carry that right until it is suc-
cessful, will recommend itself as a practical induce-
ment,” etc. That alone seems calculated to use up
the capital many times over, quite apart from the
“freezing and cold storage, pioneer farms, stations,
model townships, and all the other sundries.” There
are 8,000,000 half-crowns in the proposed capital,
and if every one carries the right to a £5OO loan,
there are £4,000,000,000 (four thousand million
pounds) to be lent at nominal interest for
a period not specified. The prospectus doesn’t
mention the company’s, bank, solicitors or
auditors. In fact, it mentions very little ex-
cept that subscriptions are to be sent to John Dwyer,
Room 111, Queen’s Hall. It is a common thing to
state that a company will proceed to allotment when
a certain amount of capital is subscribed, and that,
failing receipt of the fixed amount, subscriptions will
be returned. But nothing of the sort is mentioned
in this case. And there doesn’t even seem to be a
printer’s imprint on the prospectus.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia
(Melbourne) :
Divs. on To Re- Re-
Profits. All Shares. serves, serves.
Mar., 1904.. £19,117 5 p.c. = £10,967 £8,150 £62,763
Sept., 1904.. 18,287 5 ~ ~ 10,967 7,320 70,083
Mar., 1905.. 19,320 5 ~ „ 10,907 8,353 78,436
Sept., 1905.. 18,314 5 „ ~ 10,977 7,337 85,773
Mar., 1906.. 19,405 5 „ „ 10,982 8,423 94,196
Sept., 1906.. 19,578 6 „ ~ 13,178 6,400 100,596
Mar., 1907.. 22,086 6 „ „ 13,178 8,908 109,504
Sept., 1907.. 19,532 0 „ ~ 13,178 6,354 115,858
Mar., 1908.. 23,205 6 „ „ 13,178 10,027 125,885
(23,501 6 „ ~ 13,178)
Sept., 1908.. v Voted for Provident V 323 126,208
l Fund, £lO,OOO J
Mar., 1909.. 22,710 7 p.c.= 15,375 7,335 133,543
Sept., 1909.. 19,293 7 „ ~ 15,375 3,918 137,461
Mar., 1910.. 23,417 7 ~ ~ 15,375 8,042 145,503
Sept., 1910.. 23,509 7 ~ ~ 15,375 8,134 153,637
Mar., 1911.. 23,708 7 „ ~ 15,375 8,333 161,970
Sept., 1911.. 24,626 7 „ „ 15,375 9,251 171,221
Mar., 1912.. 27,864 7 „ ~ 15,375 12,489 183,710
The net earnings were £28,864, but a vote of £lOOO
to the Officers’ Provident Fund reduced them some-
what. The profit is the biggest for many years, and
so is tlie addition to reserves. The capital stands
at £439,280|, and the total shareholders’ funds are
£622,990. On the other side of the account the
amount due to depositors is £4,157,674, which is
£361,363 more than the figure of a year ago. The
liabilities to the public are certainly increasing
pretty fast, and if the movement continues at the
present rate it might be a fair thing to get in
more capital. The liquid assets ( £1,839,733) are
fairly solid —much more so than in the old days,
when Victorian banks took risks that they wouldn’t
dream of now. Still, within the last year the
deposits, as already mentioned, have increased by
£361,363, and the liquid assets by only £39,641, so
it can hardly be said that the position is growing
stronger. The actual cash on hand in Australia is
about £4OOO less than it was a year ago, when
liabilities were rather smaller.
It used to be a tradition of Australian banks to
invest a part of their reserves in British Consols, so
that they might be securely entrenched behind a bul-
wark of gilt-edged securities, which had no variable-
ness or shadow of turning (confused Scriptural meta-
phor), The A.J.S. Bank (now the A.8.C.), which
sold out its Consols at the top of the boom, was-
almost the only Australian institution which didn’t
wish it had been dead before it saw that vaunted
British security. Here are two lines from the
Colonial Bank’s reports: —
March, 1911.. British Consols, £70,668 15 2
at £BO per cen £56,535
March, 1912.. British Consols, £70,668 15 2
at £77 per cent 54,415
Some further details are appended:—
Mar., ’ll. Mar., ’l2.
Notes in circulation £128,851 £27,758 Dec. £101,093
Bills in circulation,
etc. .. .. 336,585 416,530 Inc. 79,945
Free deposits .. 1,557,850 1,721,381 Inc. 163,531
Deposits at interest 2,238,461 2,436,293 Inc. 197,832
Liquid assets .. 1,800,093 1,839,734 Inc. 39,641
Advances ~ .. 2,861,502 3,190,979 Inc. 329,477
Premises, etc. .. 217,778 210,615 Dec. 7,163
The steady writing down of premises is a good
feature. As regards the earnings this is the posi-
tion :
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Sept-., 1908.. £7 19 3 p.c. | Sept., 1910.. £8 0 9 p.c.
Mar., 1909.. 8 0 7 „ I Mar., 1911.. 8 0 0 „
Sept., 1909.. 614 8 ~ j Sept., 1911.. 8 310 „
Mar., 1910.. 8 2 4., | Mar., 1912,. S 16 0 ~
There are Australian banks of good repute which
don’t earn much more than half that percentage. A
great deal depends on the extent to which the busi-
ness is spread. A well-managed bank with
£4,000,000 of deposits, and, say, six offices to sup-
port, does splendidly. One of the same size, and
equally well managed, with 60 offices to support—
one that drags a large, thin business from a great
area, instead of a small, thick business from a single
paddock—may hardly make enougli to buy grease for
the hinges of the big front door. In this respect
there are one or two concerns which do better than
the Colonial, and a great number that do worse.
The Royal Bank of Queensland (Bris-
bane) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Prnfits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dee., ’04.. £9,563 31 p.e. =£8,427 £1142 164,782
June,’os.. 9,673 3£ „ „ 8,463 1210 65,992
Dec.,’os.. 9,896 3| ~ ~ 8,468 1428 67,420
June,’o6.. 10,016 3J „ ~ 8,468 1548 68,968
Dec.,’o6.. 10,933 4* „,, 9,711 11500 68,690
June,’o7.. 11,246 4 ~ ~ 9,790 1456 70,146
Dec.,’o7.. 12,626 41 ~ ~11,162 1000 464 70,610
Mar.,’oB.. 6,305 4.'. ~ ~ 5,709 596 71,206
Sept.,'OS.. 12,768 4i ~ ~11,597 1171 72,377
Mar.,’o9.. 12,707 44 .. ~11,719 988 73,365
Sept.,’o9.. 12,826 44 ~ ~11,864 962 74,327
Mar.,’lo.. 13,211.9*1 .. ~12,100 1111 75,438
Sept.,TO.. 13.338r<i4 ~ ..12,228 1110 76,548
Mar.,’ll.. 15,137 t 5 ~ ~13.746 1000 391 76,939
Sept.,’ll.. 15,586 5 ~ ~13,931 1500 155 77,094
Mar., T 2.. 15,969 5 ~ ~14,156 1500 313 77,407
The reserves grow very slowly, though the dividend
is humble. In the days of the great monetary unpleas-
antness, when big institutions fell about like houses
of cards and big financial reputations were three a
penny, the Royal of Queensland didn't write off any
capital. Yet it certainly had losses like all institu-
tions of the period, and presumably it has been pay-
ing them off steadily out of undisclosed profits. This
theory accounts for the smallness of the disclosed
profits. Occasionally, however, and more especially
of late, the Royal of Queensland has written off losses
openly, and this probably means that it has become
strong enough to look its financial skeleton in the eye
and care not whether it gains publicity or not. In
other words, in the latter days of last century it was
probably a small bank with a large skeleton, whereas
now it is a fairly large bank with a small skeleton —
only a bone or so.
Some more figures are appended:—
Mar.,’ll. Mar., T 2.
Bills and notes .. £11,003 £16,195 Inc. £5,192
Deposits, etc. .. 1,442,592 1,509,846 Inc. 58,254
Liquid assets .. 587,862 577,017 Dec. 10,845
Advances .. .. 1,406,151 1,497,098 Inc. 90,947
Premises .. .. 74,484 74,296 Dec. 188
The shareholders’ funds amount to £615,714, and
when that is compared with the deposits it will be
seen that the position is strong beyond the average.
It is not uncommon for £1 of shareholders’ money
to guarantee the integrity of £7 of deposits; in the
case of the Royal of Queensland £ 1 of shareholders’
money has to insure less than 50s. of deposits. This,
of course, does not make for very large earnings, but
then large earnings and large security seldom go to-
gether. Some recent records show how things have
been going with the shareholders:—
Profits Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Sept., 1908.. £4 11 9 p.e. Sept., 1910.. £4 9 9 p.c.
Mar., 1909.. 4 9 6,, Mar., 1911.. 510,,
Sept., 1909.. 4 8 3,, Sept., 1911.. 5 2 2,,
Mar., 1910.. 4 911 ~ Mar.. 1912.. 5 310 ~
The progress is not enormous, but it is steady, and
there is probably more solid foundation underneath
the superstructure of advertisement than there was
before Queensland learned its lesson in 1893.
Two big businesses in Melbourne are in
course of conversion from private ownership to public
companies. Edments Limited is the first to be sub-
scribed. It does a huge trade in dolls’ eyes, tooth-
picks, pins and other haberdashery. The capital will
be £200,000, and it is understood toy soldiers and
tin trains will be added to the stock by millions.
Beath, Schiess and Felstead is a big Lane float, with
a capital of £500,000. The firm is distinguished for
its piety and push. David Beath, the senior partner,
who has been paying income tax as an absentee for
many years, at one time never engaged a factory hand
without giving him or her a New Testament.
The Darling Downs Building Society
(Toowoomba, Q.) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1900 .. £476 5 p.c. =£33o £146 £203
1901 .. 760 5 ~ ~ 463 297 50(1
1902 .. 1,109 6 ~ „ 821 288 788
1903 .. 1,354 6 ~ „ 917 437 1225
1904 .. 1,545 6 ~ ~ 1149 396 1621
1905 .. 2,284 6 „ „ 1782 502 2123
1906 .. 3,012 6 „ ~ 2401 611 2734
1907 .. 4,023 6 ~ ~ 3009 1014 3748
1908 .. 5,859 7 ~ „ 4844 1015 4763
1909 .. 6,935 7 „ ~ 6201 734 5497
1910 .. 8,114 7 ~ ~ 7353 761 6258
1911 .. 10,422 7 ~ „ 8953 1469 7727
There are three classes of shareholders: all of them
get a 5 p.c. div. with a 2 p.c. bonus ; and the bor-
rowers also get the benefit of this bonus, their little
lot running to £723 for the past year. The society
has made excellent progress. It started in a very
small way, at a time when Queensland was pretty
well out of the troubles that came in the early ’9o's,
and within three or four years the cutting-up of
various big estates, coupled with a run of good
seasons, gave the Darling Downs towns the lift of
their lives. This society kept; its head when, pros-
perity happened along, and every year it has grown
bigger and apparently stronger. Certainly the re-
serves are not large in proportion to the advances,
which total £165,797, and this is the feature that
needs the management’s attention. It wouldn’t take
a very bad disaster to knock £7727 off the value of
securities bulking £165,797. For this reason every
proposal to put up the dividend beyond 7 p.c. should
be sat upon hard for a long time to come.
*' » * *
Re the Melbourne Motor Omnibus Co. and
its financial proposals (B. 11/4/T2). The promoters’
idea is to go to allotment on a minimum of 6000
shares, reckoning that £6OOO will buy, equip and
house five ’buses for the Heidelberg route. The
authorised capital is £50,000; and as all or part of
this is got in, other vehicles will be bought for
other routes, beginning with an East Brunswick and
Coburg service via Lygon-street.
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere: —
Net Written To Re- Re-
Jan , Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £4552 8 p.c. =£4479 £7500 £13,714
1902.. 5150 8 ~ „ 5000 7500 6.364
1903.. 6630 8 „ ~ 5000 7,994
Loss. Deficit.
1904 594 8 ~ ~ 1875 9662 4,137
1905.. 4225 Nil 136 -- 8,498
1906.. 1566 Nil 1022 -- 11,086
Profit.
1907.. 5364 Nil 308 £5056 6,030
A Plant apparently written
down .. .. i. 6371 12,401
I Reserves.
1908 r £i2,soo capital written off 99
Profit.
J 6731 6 p.c. =£3ooo 3731 3,830
1909 . 1797 5 „ „ 2500 3,127
1910.. 3532 5 ~ „ 2500 1032 4,159
1911.. 5562 6 ~ „ 3000 2562 6,721
1912.. 5594 6 „ ~ 3000 2594 9,315
This co. does a good deal of trading on the Murray,
Darling and Murrumbidgee, and as these rivers, like
the Cotter, have their dry spells, trade is a bit un-
certain ; besides, snags occasionally put out their
feet and trip up the river boats, and that means
repairs. Though the table shows nothing written
oft' for the year, .£2BlO was charged in profit and
loss account for depreciation; £1037 for repairs to
river plant, and £782 for other repairs. In the
previous 12 months £3262 was written off for de-
preciation and £1771 for repairs. The present
year's depreciation and repair allowance (£4629)
has to cover damage and deterioration of £45,824
worth of property, including “eight steamers, seven
barges, slip, horses, lorries, harness, etc., and free-
hold land and buildings at valuation." It is a pitv
that these items are lumped together in this whole-
sale fashion. Horses and harness deteriorate very
fast. Lorries are doubtful. Slip and etc. are
unknown quantities (especially “etc." ; no accountant
on earth can tell the average rate at which “etc.”
wears out). Buildings may last 6000 rears or six
years ; it depends on material, climate, workmanship,
white ants and sundries. Land values depend on
prices, booms and circumstances. And steamers
and barges are perishables that lead a verv precari-
ous existence on shallow, snaggv rivers. At all
events the position is this: For the year ended Janu-
ary 1911 the co. allowed £5033 for old age and
repair to plant valued at £39,985, which didn’t
seem excessive, considering the nature of the business.
And for the year to January 1912 it allowed onlv
+‘4629 (which is somewhat less) for repairs and
depreciation of plant valued at £45,824 (which is
somewhat more). On the previous year’s basis the
amount looks insufficient.
Some other figures follow:
1901. 1910. ism. 191-2.
Liabilities .. £28,014 £30,781 £42,915 £47,501
Assets—
Plant.. .. 47,358 38,870 39,985 45,824
Biok debts.. 48,981 34,u9n 45,253 46,080
Merchandise 9,270 10,537 13.441 14,704
Miscellaneous 2,107 3,044 3,957 3,208
Ihe gross earn ngs for the year have grown from
£50,442, in 1911, to £54,804, in 1912, which is en-
couraging, the increase being £4362. The working
expenses, apart from depreciation and repairs, have
grown from £39,847 in 1911 to £44,581 in 1912,
an increase of £4734, which is not encouraging. In
other words, expenses have grown faster than revenue,
and the only reason why this year’s profit looks a
shade larger than that of last year is that the allow-
ance for depreciation is smaller. It is worth
noting,- though the fact may have no special signifi-
cation, that in 1908 the co. had 20 steamers and 22
barges. In 1909 it had 15 steamers and 16
barges. Now it has eight steamers and seven barges.
Since 1901, £12,500 of capital and a fair wad of
reserves have been written off, after re-valuation of
assets. The large book debts, £45,984 (the capital
is only £50,000), are mainly due to the co.’s hawk-
ing trade on the back rivers, on which it does a
good merchandise and produce business.
The Farmers and Dairymen’s Milk
Co. (N.S.W.), :
Unex-
plained Total
Addi- Added
Trading tions to to Be- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves. serves.
1900.. £667 Nil £516 £llB3 £4,237
1901.. 874 Nil 656 1530 5,767
1902.. 396 Nil 800 1196 6,963
1903.. 1038 10 p.c. = £163 403 1278 8,241
1904.. 1025 10 ~ „ 146 612 1491 9,732
Taken from
Reserves
without
Explanation.
1905.. 312 10 p.c. = 145 90 77 9,809
Added to
Reserves
without
Explanation,
1906.. 727 10 p.c. = 142 ’ 897 1482 11,291
1907.. 440 10 ~ ~ 142 1277 1575 1-2,866
1908.. 596 10 ~ „ 139 856 1313 14,179
1909.. 704 10 „ „ 140 1500 2064 16,243
1910 . 1345 10 ~ ~ 143 2''oo 3202 19,445
1911.. 1747 10 145 2500 4102 23,547
The £23,547 is made up of miscellaneous and un-
specified reserves, £12,853; and unappropriated
profit, £10,694. It is possible that some of the re-
serves are merely a set-off against actual deprecia-
tion, and therefore not true reserves at all ; but as
against that must be set this remark in the report
of the auditors (James little and Co.) : “The net
profit earned for the year was £1747, after making
full provision for bad and doubtful debts, deprecia-
tion of the, machinery, plant and buildings, and the
strengthening of the reserves.’’ If that means that
the co. made £1747, plus the £2500 added to re-
serves after providing for depreciation, then the co.
did extraordinarily well, seeing that its live capital
is now only £1452. It would make things a lot
plainer if the management set out its reserves in de-
tail. The co. has an overdraft of £13,443, and it
owes £10,169 on other accounts. Its assets consist
of buildings and plant, £41,062, and book debts,
stocks, etc., £9522. The point is-—Are the build-
ings and plant in at a fair value? If they are, and
if the book debts are good, then for every £1 of capi-
tal the co. is in the remarkable position of having
£l6 of reserves. ,
Ipswich Gas and Coke Co. (Q.) ;
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1910 .. £1869 10 p.c. = £l2OO £669 £5537
1911 .. 2181 10 „ „ 1200 981 6518
1912 .. 2417 10 ~ ~ 1700 717 7235
For the year to February, 1911, “gas sales, coke, tar,
fittings, etc.,” amounted to £7066 ; for the past year,
the total of same mixture was £7959, an increase of
£893. It would be far better if “ gas sales” were
kept and not bunched with “fittings” and
“etc.” The accounts make no mention of deprecia-
tion written off, and as gas-pipes have a bad habit
of wearing out, the wear and tear is probably covered
out of reserves. In that case the £7235 are not true re-
serves. In fact they don’t pretend to be. “Depre-
ciation reserve” is £5500 ; “equalisation of divi-
dend account,” £300; “contingency account,” £BOO ;
and £635 is undivided profits. As £l5OO has been
transferred this year to the depreciation reserve, that
and the dividend absorb more than the profits.
If it was possible that all this £l5OO worth of wear
and tear happened during the year, then the real pro-
fits were only £917. Depreciation reserves are
always unsatisfactory. If they are a set-off against
wear and tear that has actually happened, but has
not be written off, they simply counterbalance the
undue inflation of assets. And if they are a
provision against wear and tear that hasn’t yet hap-
pened, they might as well be called ordinary re-
serves. The co. looks in a remarkably good cash
position. It sets forth its case thus: —
Liquid assets: Accounts owing (£872); in-
vestments ( £300) ; current account
( £5494) £6666
Liabilities: Owing on debentures (£1500),
and sundries (£672) .. ~ .. 2172
Surplus .. .. .. ..£4494
It is something of a financial tragedy that a concern
with £5494 loafing in the bank should be paying in-
terest on £l5OO worth of debentures.
N.S.W. coal mines have not yet gone to
the dogs. For the first quarter of tins year New-
castle exported 1,020,376 tons, worth £528,618.
This is 215,131 tons more than its shipments for
the first quarter of 1911. Victoria took 228,390
tons, or practically one-fourth of the exports. S.
Australia, with big metallurgical works, required
143,465 tons. Maoriland, though proud of its own
smokeless black diamond, asked for 75,682 tons, and
will probably want more if the big iron deposits near
Nelson are developed. Those States that have big
iron ore deposits of the right kind are pretty sure
to call for shiploads of N.S.W. coke. A good geo-
graphical position and an abundant coal supply is
hard to beat. The American trade shows this, for.


Skilled Organisation
Brings Success.
Expert management to-day accounts for
businesses quickly taking the lead, caus-
ing chagrin to competitors. The “live”
concern, ever ready to improve, pro-
gresses. Half-hearted, misguided methods
invariably bring failure. We’ll skilfully
and successfully work your company,
float your undertaking, and arrange for
subdivision and selling of your suburban
or country estate. We also act as Trus-
tees and Attorneys under power. Call.
Telephones —City 2391, 2392.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
(CAPITAL £150,000).
J. EARLE HERMANN, Managing Director.
B. J. McDOUGALL, Sec.
Yaraila Chambers (3rd Floor),
109 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ton
&
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager,
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
although no less than 16 States produce pig iron,
Pennsylvania, with its coal and transport facilities,
turns out 9,806,834 tons, out of a total American
production of 23,649,344 tons of pig iron. The wide
distribution of the pig iron trade in 16 States is a
hint to Australia to go ahead with the iron mdustry.
Bonnie Dundee, the copper show at Nyn-
gan (N.S.W.), which long ago had big prophecies
immediately in front of it, contemplates reconstruc-
tion. Last year showed a loss, and calls didn t rush
in, so a suspension was obtained. It is proposed to
raise £5OOO on debentures and erect smelters. The
nominal capital is to be reduced, fully paid-up share-
holders retaining a two-third interest, and con-
tributing shareholders the balance, all shares to
carry a calling liability of ss. Customs smelting is
to be nibbled at—a pretty rocky suggestion.
* * * *
The once phenomenally rich Lucknow
mines (N.S.W.), recently purchased from the London
owners by a Sydney and Melbourne syndicate, are to
be given a flutter. The Lucknow Mines Co. M.L., is
to be formed, with a capital of £75,000, divided into
150,000 shares of 10s. each, of which 70,000 (con-
tributing) are offered to the public, payable Is. on
application, Is. on allotment, and the balance in calls
not exceeding 6d. per month. Another 50,000 shares
are to be held in reserve, while the vendor syndicate
take 30,000, fully paid up, and £lO,OOO cash. The
mines are equipped with plant and machinery, though
a good deal of it is probably only fit for the scrap-
heap. It is intended to pump down to the 800 ft.
level, a job estimated to take about six months, and
a survey is then to be made of the underground work-
ings. The past history won’t give much assistance,
for the only safe rule it ever evolved was the old
Cousin Jack’s, “Where she be, there she be.” The
public is really asked to stake future chances on past
performances. The instances of successful re-working
once a mine has been abandoned after decent trial,
are rare. Yet, in this case, it is by no means certain
that all the gpld has been extracted, for the secret
of systematic search seems never to have been dis-
covered. The ore bodies occurred in most irregular
ways, apd all that experience taught was not to ex-
pect values except at or near the junctions of a num-
ber of east aq4 west veins with the main fissure ; and
even then, only when the hanging-wall of the fissure
consisted of serpentine and the gangue of calcite.
Which, of course, meant expensive development work,
often not rewarded, before those conditions could be
discovered. '(’he main fissure, with its cross-veins
conring in from the west, and never crossing over to
the east, looks on the plan like a caterpillar stripped
of its legs on one side. It has been driven on for a
continuous length of 4000 ft. from one leg to another.
Something mgy have been left behind, especially
below thp 000 ft. level, where irregular off-shoots,
known as “djpppers,” happened along in a most un-
expected manner. The new co. might strike on to
rich finds early, and then again it might not. One
thing seems reasonably certain, and that is a fairly
vigorous search must have been conducted before the
old owners gqve up hope. Mines with such a record
are hot readily parted with.
* / * * *
New Buri-agorang (Yerranderie, N.S.W.),
in sinking its new shaft past the 86ft. mark, has
struck from to sin. of sulphide ore. Some of
the mines of! this field had very rich patches of ore
in the shallpw levels, and consignments carrying
400 oz. of silver per ton were fairly frequent.
Samples have assayed much higher than that, but
there is no reason to get excited over a lump the
size of a teacup that assays unusually high. Since
1900 the Yerranderie field has sent away 46,612 tons
of ore, containing 10,133 tonS of lead and
4,70Q,7040z. of silver. The average has been a
shade over lOOoz. of silver per ton, which, at 2s. 6d.,
would be wprth £l2 10s. The working of narrow
veins to a depth of 1300 ft. on the underlay has given
a small but valuable output of ore, which makes the
mines on thjs field unsuited for heavy capitalisation,
or a heavy expenditure on concentrating machinery.
Still, therm should be a good chance for a small
plant like that at Kangiara to crush low-grade ore
that will npt pay to send to the smelting works.
The erection of a concentrator has been decided on
by the Silver Peaks co., at a cost of £6OOO.
The Radium Hill Go., near Olary (S.A.),
is giving its machinery a trial run. The object is
to concentrate the ore, which contains a low per-
centage of oxide of uranium, which, in its turn,
contains a minute proportion of that precious ele-
ment, radjum. The report states that the lode in
the stope is 7ft. wide, of good quality ore. Radium
is such a scarce element in its concentrated form
that a grain has been valued at £lOOO. Still some-
body may find 2oz. of radium and burst the world’s
market. It would be easy, in these booming times,
to over-capitalise a radium show, because the market
is very limited, and the annual production is about
the size of a pin’s head.
Sweet William shareholders shook hands
with the manager in Adelaide the other day, and
heard the very latest about the richness of their
Payne’s Find venture. Ten tons of picked stuff re-
cently produced 1200 z., and another 34 tons now
awaiting treatment are expected to return between
7oz. and lOoz. per ton. Future crushings are to be
put throqgh the State mill, now in course of erection.
This plant is expected to start in a few weeks, and,
according to a man on the spot, will run for a month
and then spell for want of stone. He says that little
or no development is being done, and that owing to
narrow, ribbon-like reefs and hard country, the out-
look for the field is not nearly so bright as is alleged
in' some quarters.
* * V * *
Chafers (W.A.) is idle pending the re-
ceipt of a report from the consulting engineer, John
Morgan, as to whether it is any use going on or not.
The management believes it is, and has already re-
ported on two occasions to that effect. .. Golden But-
terfly (W.A.) is reported to have got rid of all hands
except the engineer and others, who are getting the
mill purchased from the Westralia Mount Morgan s
ready for crushing. It is alleged that funds are low,
and that before the co. can get going it will have to
find another thousand or two to connect the mill with
the water shaft. If this is so calls are inevitable. . .
Central and West Boulder and Brown Hill Extended
have put monev into Northern Nigeria. The former
has taken an interest in the Damo Tin Co., and the
latter has bought into the Benue syndicate, which
claims to have 10 square miles of alluvial tin ground
and a similar area of silver-lead country. Other
Westralian cos., including the Orion, think of migrat-
ing to the same locality.
Bullrush (W.A.) lias decided to pass the
Kyarra leases at Meekatharra on to a new co. pro-
moted by Baillieu and others for £6OOO cash and
27,000 out of a proposed issue of 50,000 £1 shares.
By this arrangement Bullrushers will give away nearly
half a share in a promising show, and in return get
back the money spent to date, be relieved of the
necessity of finding more capital for development, and
have an extra £6OOO to splash up on the eo.’s other
option at Yuin if required. About 10,000 of the new
eo.’s shares have been applied for in the West.
Principal Westralian results for March:
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder . . 18,057 47,694 26,281 52/9
Ivanhoe . . . . 20,010 41,605 18,015 41/7
Kalgurli . . . . 10,720 21,592 9,131 40/3
Golden Horseshoe 25,201 32,508 1,304 25/6
Great Fingall . . 5,929 11,777 1,321 39/9
Oroya Links . . 11,030 13,477 3,000 24/5
Lake View & Star 18,202 21.333 3,604 23/5
Boulder Persever-
ance . . . . 19,715 20,361 1,177 20/8
Associated . . 10.858 14,100 1,120 27/9
Sons of Gwalia . . 12,740 19,779 4,036 31/-
South Kalgurli . . 9,668 12,385 2,182 25/8
Orova-Black Range 4,750 8,048 2,051 34/10
Golden Ridge .. 2,596 5,233 1,750 40/4
Sand Queen . . 2,036 2,921 1,251 28/8
Mararoa . . . . 2,683 5,929 3,228 44/2
Associated Northern 1,988* 5,617 56/6
Lake View Consols 9,045 t 1,766 580 3/10
Boulder No. 1 . . 2,827 2,892 749 20/5
Menzies Consolidated 1,818 3,3-51 307 39/1
Mountain Queen .. 3,516 3,071 846 17/6
Ingliston Consols. . 1,213 2,419 832 40/-
North Kalgurli . . 8301 2,150 51/9
Hainault . . 5,700 7,024 503 24/8
Ida H. .. .... 1,131 4,356 1,454 77/-
Loss.
Yuanmi .. .. 5,050 9,803 501 § 39/-
Gwalia South .. 1,435 2,231 38 31/1
Ingliston Extended 440 1.309 801! 60/-
*lncludes tributors’ ore. fold residues. JTribu-
tors’ ore. §Costs included £5569 capital expendi-
ture. UMill only ran one shift.
Position of Lupton’s (W.A.) in a nut-
shell. Value of gold won, £2000; expenditure,
£2333 ; present indebtedness to vendors, £1000;
other liabilities about £250. The main shaft is now
nearing 180 ft., where the next level is to be driven.
According to a local paper the manager is optimistic.
Managers generally are. # #
Apropos of the St. George mine, Boulder
No. 1 (W.A.) reports in a doleful sort of way that
• the ore broken at the No. 3 level since the last re-
port has been extremely poor, that even worse re-
sults have been obtained from recent development
work at No. 2 level, and that it is any odds on all
the payable ore in the property being extracted in a
month or so. This lugubrious announcement may be
taken to mean that the co. is full up.
* * * *
Some admiring references are being made
to the Lady Miller (W.A.) by local optimists. Prior
to 1906 this Norseman show produced £7500 from
5000 tons, leaving about 4}dwt. in the residues.
Later on it was worked by the Hampton Plains Co.,
which dug out £B4OO and then left. Last year a
new co. was formed in London to resume work, and
as a result of having done so, good values are reported
to have opened up, and the mill has re-started. But
judging by past experience, there is no certainty of
it keeping going for very long. * #
Out in the Hans Irvine country (W.A.)
good accounts are being given of the Black Range
West. In a winze at 132 ft. below the 364 ft. level,
some quartz was recently met with, worth 455. per
ton. Later news states that it has since widened in
the bottom and increased to 80s. in value, further-
more, its identity with the Black Range reef is said
to have been established. Unfortunately, local re-
ports in the West are notoriously unreliable, and the
trouble is to know what, how much, and who to be-
lieve. As a prominent man on the spot remarked to
The Bulletin recently: “We knew just as soon as
you did that all was not gold that glittered at Bull-
finch, but then we wanted capital to keep coming in,
and so boomed till the death-knock.
* * *
Etheridge Gold Mines (N.Q.) is up against
a substantial overdraft of £6OOO. Things should
brighten up when the treatment plant gets into full
swing, and some of the ore from the Queenslander,
Havelock and Nil Desperandum is put through. Re-
serves in four mines total 60,350 tons, worth L>dwt.
ner ton work has shown rather better
results 'lately, but the reefs, taken as a whole, are
narrow and horribly patchy. Most of the stuff m the
Havelock is cupriferous, while that in the Queens-
lander is a mixture of lead sulphides with other
base mineral. There is no doubt that the mineralised
stuff was too refractory for ordinary methods of
treatment. # *
Georgetown (Q.) intends to give a trial
to one more of the rich but small shows
that characterise the district. The new ven-
ture is about 500 ft. south of old St.
George workings on the eastern bank of the Ether-
idge River, opposite the town. For this purpose the
St George Gold Mine, Ltd., is to be formed, with a
capital of £12,500, in 100,000 shares of 2s. 6d.
each, 22,000 being fully paid up, and 78,000 contri-
buting, pavable on application, lid on allot-
ment, and the balance in penny calls. The vendors
receive £5OO cash, and 14,200 paid shares, but agree
to take up 8000 contributing shares. In return, they
give a small reef, stoped a, few feet on either side of
the shaft (vertical) down’to the 115 ft. level, and
shown by the assay plan to have carried values up to
soz. There is practically no ore developed, and,
from the look of the workings, the ore-shoots appear
to have been short while the assay plan indicates
decreased values with depth. f
Trouble is reported to be brewing over the
sale of the Limestone mine, recently purchased by
the Mount Elliott (Q.). The sellers claim the ore
on the surface, worth about £2OOO at the present
price of copper. The Elliott people, on the other
hand, reckon that, as they bought out the show,
bones, bowels and soul, the stuff belongs to *them.
Since September, 1910, Mount Elliott
(Q.) has smelted 67,417 tons of ore from its open cut
and underground workings, for a return of copper,
8614 tons; gold, 61,1420 z. ; silver, 95670 z. Some-
thing like £500,006 has been taken out of the mine
in less than two years. The last financial year to
June 30 gave a copper output of 5412 tons, and a
net profit of £130,907. Production will be lighter
this year, because the creep on the mine and the
strikes have reduced the working time. Still, the
lift in the copper market, together with a consider-
able improvement in the grade of ore furnaced, will
go a long way to minimise the effect of a smaller
tonnage of ore and increased costs. Taking copper
at £6O, 1 p.c. is worth 125., and the average ex-
traction for seven months of the current year (12.9
p.c.) is worth £7 13s. 6d. per ton. The Warden
savs that the system of sectional mining with square-
set timbering and filling has been a success, and that
some of the ground previously thought to be lost
has been recovered, but he says nothing about the
increased cost of mining. The directors, it should
be remembered, had many things to consider and set
against the betterment of copper, when they fixed
the dividend payable on May 13 at 55., instead of
10s., which was expected by some of the more opti-
mistic shareholders.
Speculators at Charters Towers (Q.) are
paying up call money for a long course of dead
work in the Brilliant Block, which is crosscutting
at the 2000 ft. level, to try and pick up a slice of
the rich shoot of stone proved by its next-door
neighbor, the B. Deeps, quite close to the Blocks
boundary, at the 2410 ft. and 2540 ft. levels. Two
boundary developments, with only 130 ft. between
them, are tempting. At the 250 ft. level, in the
B. Deeps, the reef has turned more to the south
than was expected. In the Brilliant Deeps lease
the crosscut at No. 5 has failed, so far, to locate
the reef. It is now thought that the reef cut further
back in the crosscut must be the one sought for.
This reef carried a few inches of highly-mineralised
stone.
**•* >*
Oaks Amalgamated (Oaks Rush, N.Q.)
crushed 170 tons of ore from its own mine for 90oz.
( £3 12s. per oz.), also 225 tons of headings for
450 z., total value of the combined crushing £484
10s. ; profit, £9B 10s. Very fair in its way, but
disproportionate for a concern so overweighted with
shares. A quarter-million requires more rapid feed-
ing than can be accomplished with 10 stamps, run-
ning on low-grade ore. All the talk about the big
formations has evaporated, and the Amalgamated is
crushing from narrow veins at the 100 ft. level. A
drive running into the hill is opening up some pay-
able crushing stuff, and, taking the rising ground
into consideration, the manager estimates 130 ft. of
backs. At Thompson’s Oaks there is a slight re-
vival of interest, because it is hoped that prospects
will improve when the drive from the main shaft, at
a depth of about 200 ft., reaches more settled country
clear of the fault. At the Shamrock (which also
belongs to Thompson’s Oaks), the vein is small but
fairly good, and will probably provide some small
payable crushings.
* * * *
Chairman Millican, of the Brilliant Deeps
(Charters Towers) made it clear, at the half-yearly
meeting, that a good deal of dead work was ahead of
the co. before the mine could be employed on a large
scale. Ventilation has to be improved, and, in
order to do this, some 300 ft. of rising and winzing
■has to be done. A sirocco fan is to be installed to
promote a rush of air along the upcast. It was
originally intended to connect No. 4 level with the
workings overhead, but No. 4 has unexpectedly taken
a more southerly course than the upper levels, so the
distance from the end of the drive and the upper
workings is greater than was anticipated. The
blanks that occur in the main ore channel, and the
division of the reef into hanging-wall and foot-wall
sections make it uncertain whether the vein that has
diverged to the south in No. 4 level is identical with
the erratic vein system overhead.
Central Red, White and Blue (Bendigo)
isn’t quite so well, thank you, though Dr. Billee
Cundy gives this patient every hope of recovery.
There are years of work ahead, he declares. Then
he slings in a little acid to qualify the alkali, thus:
“It would be unreasonable to expect the continuance
of the exceedingly high average of some few
months ago, but, beyond question, highly payable aver-
age values can be anticipated for some years.’’ This is
a genuine slab of old Bendigo. Why was not this
fact made the subject of a pre-crushing memo., in-
stead of a post-crushing crusher? What is to be
read into the phrase, “highly payable can be
anticipated for some years.” True 780 ft. has to
be covered to catch the south boundary, and 320 ft.
away is the north border line, but it doesn’t follow
even at Bendigo that payable shoots extend from
boundary to boundary. What Bendigo wants to
know, and a good man like Oundy could make a
start in the special case of Central Blue hy letting
it know, is, what tonnage is in sight as “proved,”
and what is “probable.” In the former definition
could be included the stone which Cundy says will
take 31 years to work out; in the latter, that lying
between the face when good stone is being worked,
say, in the Lansell’s 180, and the leading drive in
the Central Blue, pointing towards Lansell’s 180.
Even that “probability” should be discounted by the
knowledge that, in the Central Blue “proved” forma-
tion, there are distinct shoots of gold. There also
is the other fact that, at both ends of the mine, the
faces are in poorer stone than in the central portion
of the stopes. *
New Prince of Wales (Bendigo) lias got
out of debt, and, on the strength of a decent crush-
ing or two, resumes the payment of dividends. Thus
the half-century has been reached in a show which,
not so long ago, was more dead than alive. A
previous div. dribbled into shareholders pockets in
1910. Since then the undertaker’s horse always had
an eye cocked towards the poppet heads, to see if
the flag was half-mast high. He has now returned
to his oats with an easier mind, satisfied that, in a
patchy mine like the New Prince of Wales, the
last kick can never be definitely counted on. Still, it
is an odd trick of Dame Fortune to find shares
which, in February, were back at 2s. humming now
towards the twenties.
New Langi Logan (Ararat, Vic.) bore got
through, with the aid of a seven-ton jack. More-
over, as Brother Worral was wont to say in his
perfervid day, gold was gotten out of the clean-up
of the plate. This could hardly have been expected,
as the drill went up to nearly 80ft. before it
reached wash, proving that the extreme edge of the
lead had just been reached. Now comes another
100 ft. of driving, before another bore can be jacked
up ahead of the No. 2 bore. As 20 or 30 specks
of gold were washed up from the dirt that came
down the bore, call-payers won’t furl the flag as
they did when No. 1 bore proved a duffer New
Langi’s pioneering is comparable to 8., M. and Co. s
work on the lower Berry lead. Both are struggling
in deep ground and in new territory. The differ-
ence lies in the surface boring, for, while at Moolort
the results were problematical, at the New Langi
the whole boring party went nap over the old shafts
and got stranded when these caved in through the
rush of the drift.
Mount Lindsay (Tas.) tin mine owes its
name to Lindsay Tulloek, the golden-haired cherub
of the Mount Lyell board, who happens to be one of
its principal backers. A West Coast show, up in the
mountains, Mount Lindsay is frost-bitten in the
winter and scorched in the summer. Two adits
follow the outcrop. Each discloses low-grade tin
ore, part of which is in massive pyrites, and the
rest in gossany stuff. If the ore isn’t very rich, the
formation is big, and money is not being stinted, to
prove just what the average grade may be. The fat
man will soon be asked to put up the boodle to equip
the claim, and will want to take in return the
usual ample wad of paid-up shares. In that case, as
the backers of Mount Lindsay are not poor men,
they themselves may elect to fill the fat man’s rSle.
* * * *
Briseis (Tas.) pulled through 1911 with
a gross profit of £47,000, which looks respectable,
against £98,000 received from sales of gold and tin.
The gold yield from the Wallace dredging property m
Victoria was worth £21,762, from 1,320,650 cubic
yards of wash (nearly 4d. per cubic yard). Briseis
is making a fair profit out of gold dredging, and the
March return looks particularly sweet. According to
the official report, 119,700 cubic yards of material
have yielded 7740 z. of gold,, which is at the rate of
over 6d. per cubic yard. This, together with 45 tons
of black tin, should increase the profit. Still, the
dredging yield has varied a good deal, and the net
profit looks small when divided among 600,000 shares.
Last vear the output of metallic tin was 430 tons, of
which 409 tons was sold at an average of £l9O per
ton.
Mount Lyell (Tas.) shipped 1530 tons of
blister copper for the half-year ending March 31.
During the previous half-year (to September, 1911)
the furnaces smelted 165,159 tons of ore for 3841
tons of blister, showing a proportion of, roughly, 43
to one. Costs were a shade over 20s. per ton of
ore, so blister cost sometning over it 43 to produce.
Provided that gold and silver values, amounting to
from £ll to £l2 per ton of copper, are set off againsc
refining and other costs, it is possible to produce
electrolytic copper (with precious metals thrown in)
at less than it4o. Silver values run from 60oz. to
700 z., and gold values from 25dwt. to 30dwt. per
ton of base metal, so it is evident that the price
of the white metal is of some importance to Mount
Lyell. A low cost of production, from low-grade
ore, places Mount Lyell on an equality with some
American mines. The weakest feature from a divi-
dend point of view is that the average output of
some 4000 tons of copper, per half-year, is over-
weighted with 1,200,000 shares. Under such condi-
tions every ton of metal produced in six months has
to provide a profit for 300 shares, so if the market
expects 2s. per half-year, it must also expect that
electrolytic copper will be produced at a profit of
£3O per ton. Lyell does its best to produce cop-
per cheaply, and, helped by the superphosphate trade,
and a booming metal market, big profits are to be
expected.
“Will the undertaking pav ?’' The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories or
warehouses, very often solves the problem. W. anil
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and Co., can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work
irg in Australia, or in course of erection, and will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the largest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors
can be procured from the same firm.*
* * * *
-4-GF-f MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. — Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+ GF~f- Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s, per ton, will save £7 per year, ana
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates,
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 316 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * • *
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Filter is the “Wilfley.” It is continuous, and
consists of a revolving drum which is partly sub-
merged in a tank of slimes or material to be fil-
tered. The drum is covered with a filter cloth sup-
ported on grooves on the drum, which are connected
by means of holes to the interior, to allow the liquid
to be withdrawn. Through the trunnions at the end
of the drum the vacuum pipe passes, through which
the liquid and air are withdrawn by means of a
vacuum pump. The filtered slime is removed
by a simple apparatus placed at or below the
level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly the
cake is removed, the surface of the filter cloth, as it
revolves, is immediately re-immersed in the pulp
ready to receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing
the sucking in of air and consequent loss of vacuum
between the time the cake is removed and a fresh
one forming. The residual liquid in the slime cake
is removed by distributing water over the surface of
the semi-dried cake. Owing to the fact that the
filter is circular in form, it will be seen that it is
continuous in operation, and has no complication of
valve to get out of order; furthermore, work is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the drum. The Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany, of South Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Assure, Manchester, September,
1910: “The Colonial Mutual —the first Colonial Office
to open an establishment in the Mother Country—
has always had a reputation for being an enterpris-
ing and progressive institution, and lately has at-
tracted special attention by enlarging the scope of its
operations, so as to include Industrial and Accident
business.”*
WOOD PIPE is in a fair way to being as popular
in Australia as it is in America, where it is univer-
sally recognised as the most satisfactory pipe for
meeting severe conditions. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Balmain, Sydney, are the makers.*
* * * *
F DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
\gents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Heavy-Duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the “Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers. Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector's balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
* * * *
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*


HEERIHG
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. IBJB.
TRUMILK
Means Comfort and Economy to
Thousands of Housewives.
TRUMILK is the Best Pasteurised Cow’s Milk
in Powder Form.
NO PRESERVATIVES,
ALWAYS READY FOR USE,
SAVES 50 PER CENT. OF THE MILK BILL,.
Equal for all purposes to the very
best milkman’s milk and specially
adapted for all cooking purposes.
Agents : FOGGITT, JONES & CO.
Manufacturers : TRUFOOD OF AUSTRAL-
ASIA, MELBOURNE.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LITTER
Sydney, April 22, 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
Wanted a smart girl—the smarter the
better. Must be able to sample and report
intelligently upon literature, exterminate
moths, bind up the wounds in book-covers,
and know where to recommend the tale that
ends happily with the marriage of the super-
lative heroine to the beneficial
duke, and where there is an urgent need for
the one which ends with rain dripping on
two tombs in the twilight, and the sound of
Wheels in the distance, as a lady (still
young and dressed in deep black), starts for
the convent where she will spend the rest of
her days in tears. Also, she had better be
a good business woman all round. In other
words, wanted once a week (once a fort-
night will do if the smart girl is capable of
condensing a month’s work into one morn-
ing), a really good assistant to the Bush
Book Club. Wages nil. Every day off
when the smart girl isn’t jumping on a swag
of books, so that the contents will decently
bury themselves in a vacant plot on some
teamster’s waggon. Lady Chelmsford out-
lined a few of the above qualifications in her
recent address at the second annual meeting
of the Bush Book Club.
Books that are sent to the out-back are
carefully censored at the city office of the
8.8. C., 182 Phillip-street. Marie Corelli
may squeeze through in her tame moments.
Political and sectarian topics will be dedi-
cated to the dustbin, and the Smart Girl will
cover them with tea leaves, and beat out
their germs with a feather duster. Miss
Beulah Bolton is organising sec. of the
8.8. C., which distributes its mended edi-
tions (“Many of our kind friends,” said the
Chelmsford lady, “send us books which they
have loved so much that they want a vood
deal of mending before we can pass them
onto our readers”) with great enthusiasm to
the Back of Beyond.
Baronet Joseph Ward, with his wife and
daughter Eileen, will (bar accidents and
happenings) step off the Ulimaroa next
Saturday when she ties herself to the mud
of Melbourne. After a short stay, they will
move along to this more genial climate, and
view once more the bowers of Botany, and
the imperishable glories of Balmain. Ward
is still a member of the Imperial Conference.
Col. Miller, who is Secretary for Home
Affairs, was one of the numerous searchers
for bed and board in the beginning of last
week. Even the city sparrow threatens to
give notice if some extension in his drain-
pipe doesn’t occur before the next wheat and
wool wave swamps this town. I think Sec.
Miller found a place to lay his head, but he
returned to Yassborra with a streak of pessi-
mism in his composition. With him went
Colonel Kenneth Mackay, on a holiday jaunt
round Duntroon College, which snuggles on
the shoulder of a hill above the Plains of
’Berra.
Mr. Parry Okeden, ex-commissioner on
Papuan affairs, ex-chief of police in Queens-
land, and many other things besides, plunged
into joyous retrospect the other morning, re
long-ago days when he went droving in the
North. The veteran William Lyne—now
making a sturdy struggle on the sick list —
was stirring up the dusty way of Q. stock
routes about the same time. His daughter,
the recent bride, Mrs. Fetherstonhaugh, lin-
gers anxiously in towm, while her father puts
up a tough fight with Eternity.
Mr. Mawson, of Manchester, is reported to
be still passing through Commonwealth scen-
ery, and is gilding this continent with
a small portion of his vast wealth. He
is alleged to own most of the City of Cotton,
the part left over belonging to mere muncipal
councils and other small deer. Mr. Mawson
of Manchester is a thin and rather tired-
looking young man somewhere in the early
thirties. He is taking a well-earned rest,
after having been chased from deck-chair to
quoits on board the Moldavia by two of the
frockiest matrons of the ship.
Unreliable rumor hints that Mr. T. E.
Donne is likely to leave London for a hasty
look in at one of his earlier specialties (M.L.
tourist attractions) before the end of the
year. T. E. Donne is one of the world’s ex-
perts in the art of booming a country for all
it’s worth, and a bit over (for luck). In
fact, he is so good at the work that he could,
if called upon, raise the boom when the coun-
try wasn’t worth anything, or even if there
wasn’t any country, as was the case of that
financial genius of early last century who
floated a big loan for an imaginary republic.
Artist Alice Norton, a daughter of the
late James Norton, M.L.C., has just become
engaged to her cousin. Mr. Stephens. The
land is under him in Westralia.
Arthur Guinness, of Maoriland, with his
wife and daughter, have just climbed down
from some eyrie in the Blue Mountains. They
are making for the magnificent distances of
Melbourne. He is a very silent Speaker
when he is away from busines s and when
the press tried to interview him he folded
up his belltopper like the Arab, and silently
stole away. Also, he stole away so swiftly
that the press didn’t see him going. He was
there when it arrived —there with all his
luggage; but it looked down at its writing-
pad for a moment, and when it looked up
again he was gone with his hatbox, his glad-
stone bag, his Saratoga trunk, his overcoat
and his family. So he wasn’t interviewed.
Knight Melville Maenaghten, of the old,
grey city by the Thames, and his dame Dora
—a handsome preservation—travelled well
under the speed limit, through most of the
Easter dress parades. He is rather slow in
climbing over a steeplechase lawn, and seems
weary from much scorching after the burg-
ling profession, as Chief of the London
Criminal Investigation Department. He
suggests tired old Sherlock Holmes
whose Dr, Watson is dead, so that he has
no longer any advertising agent to lean
upon. At home he ponders over crimes and
bones, ghosts, gore and finger-prints, behind
a door marked (I believe) “Chief Blood-
hound.” And the address thereof is New
Scotland Yard (Westminster).
The switch that trails its hairy way round
the head of Beauty has a new rival in a
braid of silk, the exact color of the locks it
enshrines. A red-haired girl at State Gov-
ernment House reception wore this new form
of tail twined round her head, while a sub-
dued murmur of applause racked the bosoms
of her friends.
The Ernest Raleighs, of Victoria, made a
vigorous sprint through the recent social
upheaval in this city. She is amongst the
best-frocked, and remains faithful to the hat
with the shady verandah all round and a
rose garden on the roof. They live mostly
in these parts, nowadays, with an occasional
digression to the Cabbage Garden.
Flag-Captain Bruen, of the newly-arrived
Drake, parted with his appendix in Prince
Alfred Hospital last week. This prevented
his taking the helm at the great Drake quack
on Friday evening, when the world and his
friend’s wife danced on board till the gun-
powder ran out of the heels of their silk
stockings, or something of the kind.
Dr. and Mrs. Maxwell Allan turned the
key in the lock of their oak and crushed
strawberry flat during the first blast of the
Easter bun. They sallied forth with slaugh-
ter in their joint and several eye, and a full
cargo of prawns, fishhooks and other tackle
concealed about their persons. Port Hack-
ing was the base of this holiday attack on the
finny tribe, and the carnage raged for about
three days.
The German Consul-General and his clever
looking frau speak English with a careful
precision that’s often absent from the “tea-
kikes” of Potts Point. Six years at polyglot
Singapore is their excuse for pouring forth
the English idiom with the fluency of a Brit-
ish matron behind the family urn, when she
inquires in a voice of thunder: “Who stum-
bled on the stairs late last night?” Mrs.
Consul-General wears her hair brushed
straight back off her learned forehead, and
looks wise enough to address the Easter egg
in six languages.
Miss Grace Watson sent a hurried line
from the under side of a billow in the Aus-
tralian Bight. Grace was then on her watery
way from India, where she had pursued “The
Lost Woman” (tribe of Sarah Ran) in the
hope of stalking her for Adelaide. She re-
cords the bald fact that domestic treasures
are not rushing round India’s colored strand
in countless hordes, but they do exist. The
Lawrence Homes for Girls —daughters of
British Tommies —give them a solid train-
ing in the useful cult of the broom handle.
As many of these maidens have parents still
living, whole families will have to be lured
to these shores before “The Lost Woman”
is found in reasonable numbers to assuage
the Australian thirst for help.
“Australian tourists are rare in Southern
India,” remarks the much-travelled Grace
Watson, “though the place is overrun with
sightseers, chiefly Americans and Germans.
My guide at Modura (a colored Chesterfield)
said: ‘Would madam pardon the liberty if
he ask what country madam come from?’
Next morning he brought me one of his
books, with a testimonial many years old
from a member of the N.S.W. Uppish House.
This was the only Australian he had ever
conducted through India’s castes, temples,
etc. He was most curious to learn about the
labor conditions in our country, and wanted
to know if coolies did all the work in the
fields. If not, did Europeans wear boots
when they worked in wet ground?”
Dr. and Mrs. Kelly are returning by the
Orontes to their North Sydney chalet. Since
they left the Harbor Ferry they’ve walked
up and down the face of Europe and U.S.,
and gathered a peck or two of impressions
re Britain’s overflowing rainfall and hungry
bread-basket.
G. Lievain, duke of cooks and excellency
of the order of the fatted calf, is now con-
trolling the destiny of country gobblers at the
Hampden Hotel, Pennant Hills —where the
motor-man loves to scrape the skin off the
corners of climbing roads. Lievain, by the
way, used to be Chief of the Omelettes at
Paris House.
The cocked hat, which demands a piquant
retrousse (a Roman nose being too aggres-
sive for so warlike a frame), was one of
the best-looking waifs and strays that saun-
tered into the recent ostrich tournament.
Miss Rouse, who came to town for the Easter
parade from the leafy billows of Rouse
Hill, poised a saucy Napoleon on her nut-
brown locks at one revel. It was edited by
a cream gown, with mauve stripes walking
up and down its panels.
The John McCormack party record a
“detestable voyage” all the, way to Van-
couver. Gales that blew into hurricanes,
rainstorms, bob-tailed tornadoes, blizzards,
cocktails, ring-tails, howlers, bangers,
screamers and other terrors were more
or less mixed up together on the Great
Wet Bump from Maoriland. When last
heard of, John was linking his expensive
voice to the rich roundelay of Marie Narelle,
in a concert tour that was heavily laden
with dollars.
F. H. Blair, who is piano player-in-chief
at the McGill ’Varsity (Montreal) is going
to tear himself away from that extensive
dome of music, that he may hurry through
the Commonwealth with the Eva Mylott
contralto. They leave ’Frisco on June 5.
While race week was raging round the
town, a suburban church dangled the fol-
lowing semi-obituary notice before the pass-
ing eye: “Christians must suffer.” Under
it was the line : “An organ solo.will be played
by the choirmaster.”
A Government House fishing party, last
week, was minus Melba, who was sniffing
gum leaves and wool blossoms on the John-
son station, up Gunning way. They sent to
Sydney from the 170-mile range of Gunning
for a car to bring the famous fisher-lady
back to the Denmans’ baronial halls. But
the car punctured itself five times, and made
such a hole in the lady’s time-limit that
she wired to Coombe Cottage for her own
mile-eater. This spread its tyres for flight,
picked up its owner at Gunning, and whirled
her back to Melbourne without a hitch.
If pianist Elsie Stanley-Hall could slice
herself in half, and send her feet on tour
through this continent, she’d make a hill of
cash—assuming that her feet could sing.
Two attractive offers of local concert travel
have recently dangled just beyond her reach,
for she can’t wreck her contract dates in the
Land of Bull.
“The Blue Bird’s” nest at the Criterion
is heavily gilded with the coin of society,
which considers Maeterlinck’s dream-play
the correct thing in the way of Culture. As
an antidote to the legs of musical comedy,
the ponderous skirts of Edward Rigby
Bread are condensed Grundy. The Stars are
diaphanous about their knees, but they retire
early, and the front stalls have to sit tight
and remember they are seeing the Right
Thing. While the society damsel counts the
change out of a threepenny tramfare, she
hugs “The Blue Bird” booklet close to her
skeleton form. No drawing-room is now
considered furnished without an edition de
luxe of this feathered favorite stuffed with
pictures that illuminate the text.
The Society of Arts and Crafts unfolded
its wares at noon last Saturday in the
presence of Lady Chelmsford, Baronet Keith-
Lees (the new Gentleman Help), Lady Ver-
ney- and a large gathering of Sydney’s
nobility, gentry and mere citizens. Lady
Verney, in flowing silk skirts (of the mid-
Victorian glace period), bought some of Miss
Mildred Creed’s Australian stei.eil designs
on sight. Artist Ethel Stephens shows some
clever examples of her skill as a bookbinder,
a digression from the regular way of a girl
with an easel. The loan exhibition was
fortified on Saturday by some handsome
Java curios, i> nt by Mrs. W. Macleod, and
some by Miss ; ibel Adams. Miss Berenice
Edwell, one of the most original designers in
the Arts and Crafts Society, showed some
leather work of high degree. Twin lobsters
(boiled) shuddering on the surface of a
leather collar box were designed in the best
Edwell manner. Miss Ada Newman, who
has been coming on in her china oainting
for some time, has now come, and fires her
crockery with experience and the exact
fraction of burning log! The show% which is
in the Art Society’s rooms (Pitt-street), is
worth a visit. It comes to a full stop on
Saturday.
If the local artist wants a wall on
which to show his wares he has to set forth
with seven-leagued boots, rose-colored specs,
and a ton or two of faith. A studio is rarely
run to earth in this town till the artist is
old and feeble and ready to deposit his vener-
able bones on the doorstep of the stars.
There is more hope of hiring a hanging
ground for a day or two; so artist Alice
Norton and the youthful Gladys Owen have
snared a tolerable upper floor light at the
sign of 391 George-street. Their water-color
impressions of foreign parts, with an occa-
sional dash at Australian paddocks, show
straight along till May ,2. After that, a fair
percentage will go their several ways by
carrier’s cart, for a srdall blob of red labels
them “sold.”
When Miss Alice Norton paints her best,
she achieves a landscape full of life and color
and well branded with local atmosphere.
She hasn’t overworked the Italian peasant,
who only appears as an occasional episode,
and she has cleverly side-tracked sleepy Eng-
lish villages, which look as if they might be
dead for 50 years before the sole survivor
sent for an undertaker.
Student Gladys Owen shows the reckless
confidence of youth when she gets a bog, or a
paddock, or a Surrey village on one side,
and a slab of green paint on the other. Most
of her fields and flowers are a raging emer-
ald, or infuriated blue dotted with anarchist
red. But she is clever enough, and young
enough (having barely passed the flanoer
teeny age) to climb some day into a high
niche as an Australian artist. Her Italian
sketches are more subdued than her English
and Australian color splashes, and an
“Italian hill village,” “An avenue near the
Borghese Gardens,” and an impression of
Fiesole are precociously clever. A won-
drously mouldering old place is Fiesole at
the end of the tram-line that climbs up into
the sky from Florence and hangs on to the
hill by a single hair.
Florence Rodway’s pastel portrait of
Melba has been bought by the original, who
is about to enter into possession. The can-
vas has departed to Melbourne. Its ulti-
mate destination is unknown. Perhaps it
will go out calling as a loan exhibit to Mel-
bourne Gallery. One of the most charming
of the Rodway pastels. “Pepita,” is. I fancy,
hanging in the Skylark’s nest at Lilydale.
Country matrons gave a hop in Race
Week. Baumann’s was the place. Amy
Rillis, who was there, tells me it was the
most agreeable party of the seven days’
flutter. The sheep ladies looked after the
programmes of mere girls, whereas the Syd-
ney matrons’ dance (obliterated this Easter)
is intended for the matrons themselves, and
the girl, unless she has luck and a big
brother, follows the dull occupation of wall-
flower or dressing-room clothes-rack. Mrs.
Mackinnon, of Werribong sheep-walk, organ-
ised the Pure Merino muster at Baumann’s.
Miss Amy Egan, from somewhere behind the
back of the west wind, and away beyond the
place that the east wind is going to, was
hon. secretary and general boundary rider
of silk skirts. Hills, Mac Masters and vari-
ous offshoots of the large Mackinnon clan,
rounded up the fodder, and the company
went home with the morning milk and the
dissipated all-night cat.
Mr. Hope Bannerman, a nephew of the
late Henry Campbell Bannerman, who made
a considerable splash in England, is now
travelling amid Maoriland’s glaciers and hot
mud. Baronet Robert Anderson and his
dame, and Mr. and Mrs. W. H. McLaughlin,
from the distressed isle where the pig helps
to pay the rent, are also inspecting the
Gates of Hell, the Devil’s Shoulder, and the
other boiling sights of Maoriland.
The burglar boom has caused a demand
for small dogs. “Anything that can bark is
selling like beer,” announced the dog mer-
chant. “Dogs I couldn’t have given away a
few months ago are fetching good prices
now. I hope the scare keeps up a bit
longer.” So the yapping disturber of the
stilly night has come into his own. The
white-fac:d moon will be unable to look over
any fence now without startling some
wretched cur and causing the alarm to be
raised that a suspicious party is lingering
round the premises.
Romance was lately found lurking in a
well-known lawyer’s office. A pretty girl
client who had called to see the family shark
on the delicate Subject of her proposed mar-
riage, was moved, in the absence of the boss,
to confide in the head clerk. With pathetic
blue eyes wide open, the wliite-frocked inno-
cent asked his advice at great length. “Of
course, I don’t really love him 1” was the
burthen of her song. At last the head clerk
could bear it no longer. He really had to
sympathise, and the typiste, coming in sud-
denly, saw a sentimental tableau that she
will talk about in the winter evenings of her
old age, when her children aren’t playing the
gramophone too fiercely.
The Turk is said to be so wild with his
wife for getting her clothes from Paris that
he is compelling her to resume the' pasha
garments and the discarded yashmak. And
all the time Paris is borrowing more and
more dress ideas from his wife’s wardrobe.
Why can’t the Turk smoke peacefully on
and allow his wife to please herself? She
would get home just as quickly.
Yours in a City of Uncertain Weather,
VANDORIAN.
ROBUR
The drawbacks of a chemists’
profession are the Jong hours,
and having to listen all day long
to other peoples’ aches and pains
—and no matter how dog tirdd
we may get we cannot tak: a
glass of an> thing, having always
to keep a clear brain.
Perhaps, after all, it’s a good
thing for us that we’ve to be so
very careful, because it makes us
turn to tea, and tea’s as goad a
thing as anybody can drink —
of course, when 1 say tea, I
mean pure tea, and presume
that it’s not overdrawn in the
making—now, as nice a cup of
tea as anybody need ask for is
Robur No. J Grade don’t
stew it let it draw just “five
minutes ” —no longer—that’s the
secret of a good cup of tea
you’ll remember that, won’t
you ?
The Chemist.


HARDY BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS.
A SPECIAL SH3PMENT OF
DAINTY NECKSLIDES
DESIGN.
NOW SHOWING.
QUALITY.
VALUE.
Speslal attention has been given these ornamen s, and
purchasers have the finest stock in the
Cc m,n on wealth to select from.
NEWEST SELECTIONS SENT ON APPROVAL.
INSPECTION INVITED.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
113 Queen Street, Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS.
800,000 Copies Sold of tne Popular
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Hovels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price Is. each; Post Free Is. Id.
THE CONVICT PUGILIST,
By GEORGE COCKERILL.
Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay. Price Is., Post Free Is. Id.
.In all history, sacred or profane, and amongst all the virile nations
of the world, the “Fighter” has always held a prominent place, and his
doughty deeds have always had a fascination for the healthy-minded
reader. Since Sir Conan Doyle told of the famous fight in Rodney
Stone” he has had many imitators, but few equals, because the writers
themselves did not seem to know enough of “the Game.” But the
author of “The Convict Pugilist” will convince you in a few pages
that he knows the ropes, and writes of the ring as from the inside. The
story centres round a young, man who was a pugilist from grim neces-
sity rather than from choice, and his fights for dear life on more than
one occasion make the fistic battles of to-day look like child’s play.
There is a pretty romance running side by side with the sterner affairs
which makes the eventual fight for freedom doubly interesting.
HE
CONVICT
fg
THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP,
By LANCELOT BOOTH.
Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay. Price Is. Post Free Is. Id.
The guerilla warfare carried on by bushrangers against Law and
order is the only kind of war history of which Australia can boast up
to date. There is no doubt, however, that many of the bushrangers
showed such daring, resource and personal gallantry as would have
placed them in the forefront of the fighting line had they served in actual
war. Men like Gardiner and Ben Hall, whose stories are related herein,
furnish us with sufficient evidence of military ability as to bear out the
above contention, and the record of their doings whilst “on the road
makes exceptionally interesting reading. The mysticism surrounding
“The Devil’s Nightcap,” the den from which this particular gang
directed its campaigns, is reminiscent of Edgar Allan Poe, and the
author is to be congratulated on his powers of description and his
dramatic acumen.
FACT’R-Y 'ANDS,
Cheap Edition just Published.
Profusely Illustrated.
By ELWARD DYSON.
Author of “ Be.ino,” “The Missing Link,” etc., etc.
Price Is. Post Free Is. Id.
Six years ago Edward Dyson electrified Australian readers with his masterly descriptions of life
in some of our large factories, but, on account of the prohibitive price, only a few were able to indulge
in the luxury of a copy of “Fact’ry ’Ands.” But now that the work has become the property of The
Bookstall Co., those in search of something really funny may enjoy themselves to their hearts content
for the modest sum of a shilling. The original illustrations have been retained, and fresh ones added,
and it is safe to say that the new edition, in its present attractive form, will enjoy a new lease ot
life, and add greatly to the already noted reputation of this talented writer. the book deals in the
happiest vein with the comical side of factory life, and some of the scenes are excruciatingly funny.
The low-comedy love episodes are human to a degree, and give us that 4 one touch of sympathy that
makes the whole world kin.”
Lists Sent Post Free to any Address.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney,
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
THE
PIANOLA PIANO
is the ONLY player-piano which
COMBINES THESE TWO :
1. Playing Ability
of the World’s Greatest
Pianists.
2. Piano Quality
of the World’s Greatest
Pianos.
When you set out to purchase a player-piano bear
in mind that in reality you are going to make TWO
DISTINCT PURCHASES —First, A PIANO;
Second, THE ABILITY TO PLAY IT.
You must realise that while the quality ot the
piano is important, the quality of the PLAYER is
vital. For it is on the player—on the facilities the
plaver offers for execution and expression—that your
ABILITY AS A PERFORMER WILL EN-
TIRELY DEPEND.
The World’s Foremost Piano-player
Is Found in the Pianola Piano ALOIME.
jjjig
11110)11*111
ill
iflut
::: 32
i ill
j -4
m
Ji
Sl*
r*=S
iilil
/li
HI«IW>MtWWWMHI>MW
l![jj{i
m
jr
%
£; i i i:
111
?lri I 111
A9U
WWWWTO
Among all piano-playing instruments, the title of the PIANOLA to absolute supre-
macy, is never seriously questioned. . ' , -. , , c
It is the one player endorsed by the foremost musical authorities; adopted tor
teaching by leading educational institutions; and recognised abroad by decorations
and Royal Warrants of appointment. , . , ~ , „ , . .
To obtain the Pianola —to obtain this celebrated instrument of which Paderewski
says: “It is perfection”; which Hofmann says: “Is beyond all competitors ; and
which Rosenthal says “Is in a class of its own you must be sure that it is. the
GENUINE PIANOLA PIANO THAT YOU PURCHASE, and not a player-piano
of some other nam §* IGHESX pi AN O QUALITY AS WELL.
Of equal nre-eminence with the Pianola are the three pianofortes used in building
the Pianola Piano. They are: —
Ti>e STECK, STEINWAY, WEBER.
These names are sufficient. In their respective grades, there are no other such
pianofortes as these. . . Tvr . . mrT mv
Do not think, however, because of its superiority in BOTH PLAYIiNO APiiAIY
and PIANO-QUALITY that the Pianola Piano is necessarily higher in price than
other instruments, or beyond your means.
You can purchase
The Genuine Pianola
Piano from
110
Guineas
On Easy
Monthly Payments.
A limited number of Exchanged Pianola Pianos and Pianolas (fully guaranteed)
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
PIANOS FOR RENT.
Please write tor Catalogue B.
.a* «im&
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
88 Runclle Street, ADELAIDE;
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
and Queen Street, BRISBANE, opp. National Bank; London, Berlin, New York, etc.
wm


hf
Farmer’s Stylish Tailoring.
New Winter Suiting's
In Great Variety.
Farmer’s New Suitings quickly
material needed for the Winter Suit.
and satisfactorily decide the
New Shipments, just received, show splendid ranges of Cheviot
J weeds, hancy Worsteds, in the latest designs and colorings, and
1 ure Indigo Serges, which defy the effect of sun and sea air.
Moreover, each Suit is Stylishly Cut by one of our Expert
turners, and the fit, trimmings and finish are in accordance with
Farmer’s High-Grade Standard.
Prices: 63/-, 70/-, 75/-, 80/- the Suit.
PATTERNS, TAPE and MEASUREMENT
FORM POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
FARMER’S SYDNEY.
Winter Shipments
I and Attractions
Just
to
Hand
include a Splendid Range of
ONE-PIECE GOWNS
in Velveteen, Serge, Cloth and
Tweeds. These very attractive
Modes have been specially selected
by our Home Buyer.
Also
The Latest Coats and Skirts and
Tailor Mades—the most exclusive
we have seen. Paris Millinery
Models are shown, also Pur Toques,
Motor and Theatre Bonnets, Golf
Jerseys and Coats, Rain Coats, etc.,
etc.
In Ladies’ Underclothing.
Special Lines of Viyella, Nun’s
Veiling and Wincey Nightdresses,
Pyrenees Dressing Jackets, and
Dainty Lingerie, including beautiful
Hand-embroidered Underwear.
Fashionable Furs.
A Magnificent Stock of Made-up
Furs of all descriptions, such as
Black Fox, Mole, Squirrel and
Coney Seal, and a choice selection
of Skins is available, from which
Customers can choose and have
made up by us to their own designs.
Fancy Neckwear.
Our Lace Department is very ex-
tensive, and includes all Novelties
for Evening Wear, such as Net and
Lace Fichus. Ninon and Crepe de
Chine Scarfs,. etc., etc.
In Men’s Wear.
Our well-assorted Stock in this De-
partment embraces everything, re-
quired. Latest Designs in Wide-
end Ties. Cravats and Mufflers,
smart Fashion Shirts, Pyjamas, and
a line of English Winter Overcoats,
specially selected.
In Footwear
For Ladies and Gentlemen, we
stock all the best makes of English,
American and Australian Manufac-
ture.
Our Fashion Catalogue
is now in the press, and will be
forwarded on receipt of a card.
BALL WELCH
Pty. Ltd.,
180-8 Flinders St., Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 22, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Robert Clarke, of Belinda Yale, gave
daughter Ivy into the husbandly keeping of
John Frederick Warren, in the Romsey
Church, last week. The ceremony, which was
decorated by two nice-looking bridesmaids,
was attended by many tine dresses, and a big
country dance at the homestead kept the
wearers going till midnight. A large house-
party filled every available nook in the place,
and motored neighbors drove vast distances
home in the early morning moonlight. The
two who are now one travelled by petrol
waggon to Melbourne, and intend tripping
1.0 Sydney, Maoriland and Tasmania in turn.
Mrs. Jack Scott and Mrs. Charlie Tait
had a rose-swamped tea party in the Vienna,
last Friday, for which they managed to get
Margaret Cooper. That great dodger of
afternoon tea looked spruce in tailored white
cloth, a white hat, French white boots and
an ermine muff bereft of the usual black
spots. Mrs. Ted Tait’s roofing was a lovely
Dutch thing of black and white.
Ruby Glover, whose brilliant complexion
was one of the sights of the Block, is now
Mrs. Godfrey Garrick. Parson Hughes ef-
fected the transformation at St. Peter’s, and
Amy Trevascus, in black and tan toggery,
attended the bride, who wore tailorings of
demure Quaker grey, plus furs and feathers.
The Garrick pair are now headed for Fiji,
where the uncles come from.
Rupert Clarke and his lady have acquired
another motor —a blue-black contraption
with a white band like a surcingle round its
waist.
Captain Price (son of Colonel “Tom”),
who is on leave for his marriage with Jean
Mills, has escaped from the Malwa quaran-
tine, and is meeting his fiancee for tea tete-
:\-tetes when she isn’t busy at the dress-
maker’s. Young Price is black-haired and
handsome, like the regulation “dark, distin-
gushed man from across the water,” whom
fortune-tellers see coming for a shilling.
For eighteenpence you get two of them.
Mrs. Guy Sherwood devotedly looks after
the city newsboys from one year’s end to
another, and there was lamentation at the
street corners, the other day, when husband
Guy collected his small, energetic wife and
carried her off to Japan for a holiday.
Nancy Isaacs, who has taken over Ted
Best’s post as associate to her father, has
always been the Cinderella of the family.
A quiet, booky sort, she left the social con-
quest business to her very pretty sister—-who
lately married. Now that Nancy has sud-
denly burst into notice, her sweet kitten
circle inieaws loudly with amazement, and
leaves its saucers of milk untouched.
Beatrice Burke, the Bush Nurse who died
with tragic suddenness last week at Gun-
bower, was a jolly little girl, with every
appearance of perfect health. She grew up
in the country and served her time at Beech-
worth Hospital. Melbourne made her ac-
quaintance when she was training at the
Women’s.
General Manager Ralston, of the Queens-
land National Bank, has been holidaying in
these parts with his wife. They put up at
Menzies’, and spent the time motoring in all
directions.
Otto Plug, a nice youth, whose mother re-
cently cast off her widow’s garb and started
on her second wedding travels with a con-
soler, left his homeless Melbourne to try his
luck in Westralia. Next thing the girls
hereabout heard was that Otto had taken a
sudden plunge into matrimony with an Eng-
lish girl he found on a mailboat. They met
and were made one within a week. There’s
no resisting a timely Hug.
An engagement that has meandered along
in a purposeless way, owing to the chronic
impecuniosity of the man, is now within
sight of the altar rails, owing to the mother
of the bride-elect. She has loosened her
carefully knotted purse strings with a nail
and bought a house. A joy peal will be rung
on the front door-bell on the day of the
wedding.
East Monday afternoon Mrs. Norman
Falkiner farewelled herself, and, incidentally,
handed tea and dainties with dignity to many
of Melbourne’s smartest, at the Alexandra
Club. The handsome hostess, who left Dublin
drawing-rooms at 18 to come out and plant
her ancient lineage in the bush, left with her
husband, in the Osterley, for an extended
tri - through Fogland, and a motor run
over the surface of Europe. Everybody has
to disturb the dust of Europe with a motor
nowadays, or be written down as socially
Eost.
Mrs. Rumor is firmly convinced that
Sybil Arundale is engaged to a more or less
silver-haired squatter called Morrisey, and
keeps on saying so.
Colonel Lister, who looked after Aus-
tralia’s defence up in Queensland, until
Kitchener caused a general shuffle and
gave him a wider field, has boiled through
Melbourne to Adelaide. For 30 odd years,
the Colonel has been so busy that he could
not find time for a trip to England. He
talks of a son whom he has not seen for
17 years. The youngster went to
India, and is now engineering in Egypt.
Mrs. Lister makes a trip every few years
to see her boy and his sister, who follows
him about and does the housekeeping.
The squattocrats who lately welcomed a
certain party from South Africa —he repre-
sented himself as beiug on a sheep-buying
trip—are regretting their hospitality, and
looking blankly at gaps iu their stud flocks.
One man and his sister, who squat along-
side the Murray, have hurriedly rammed
the unpaid bill for the merinoes into a bag
and rushed aboard a boat to follow the
stranger. Besides the sheep, he has to be
interviewed about a fractured matrimonial
engagement.
Bernard Hall was re-wedded last week,
the other party to the transaction being
Miss Harriet Grace Thomson, daughter of
Frank W. Thomson, of Omberslade, Mal-
vern. The affair was extremely sedate, an
air of scholastic solemnity being lent to it by
the presence of National Gallery librarian E.
L. T. Armstrong, who undertook the role
of best man for one matinee only.
A woman who gave a tenner towards a
testimonial to a distinguished Somebody, was
omitted from the list of invitees to the Some-
body’s highly exclusive dance, which hap-
pened soon after the presentation aforemen-
tioned. The wails round the town of the
neglected donor (not donah) are heart-
rending to hear. She speaks of her ducats
as having been “thrown away —positively
thrown away !”
Lady Fuller, who has been a stranger to
social frivols for months, took John and
two Helps to Margaret Cooper’s rceital on
Friday night. Her Ex', looked well, and her
complexion triumphantly stood the lest of
her vivid green scarf. Margaret wore an
inspired gown whereon ghosts of silver but-
terflies on a pale pink silk background glim-
mered through a blue veil. A girdle of rose-
buds completed a dainty effect. The man-
agement. by the way, throws a spotlight on
her while she is performing, and the result
is worth the trouble.
Gertrude Summerhayes, violinist, daughter
of Cecilia Summerhayes, who belongs to the
musical history of early Victoria, gave a reci-
tal last week in the Austral Salon. Gertrude
played much on London platforms when she
finished her studies, but has been in Aus-
tralia for years. Nowadays, she looks after
her mother, invalided by an accident two
summers ago. The energetic old lady, whilst
climbing the rugged Dandenong Ranges, fell
and broke her leg, and has never recovered
from the shock. Dame Madden, who takes
Gertrude carefully under her wing, headed
the audience at the concert.
Bessie Major, waddling in baggy harem
garments, got a big basket of flowers the
other evening from a “Kismet” audience.
The tremendous Bessie appeals to the sense
of broad comedy.
Society has been trying to enliven St.
Vincent’s Bazaar with song and dance; but
many of the singers would not pass a Mar-
chesi test. During the week two masked
Pinschof daughters provided a mild leg show
by appearing in knee breeches, and one of
the imperfectly disguised pair carried tea
and cake to visiting Importants in the con-
cert hall. Now that the holidays are over,
the mose expensive people are rolling up to
the raid. During Easter one stylish stall
matron was heard to coo dismally, “In all
the crowds I haven’t seen a so-00l I knew.”
Just then everyone was supposed to be in
Sydney or at the seaside, and those that were
at home forbore to go out, lest they should
encounter the rabble and be numbered with
it.
The Victorian Artists, on a severely plain,
unsketched card, invite folk to music on the
evening of the 25tli.
Sinclair, sky pilot and M.A., is to dis-
course on “The Philosophy of Ibsen” at the
second meeting of the Repertory Theatre
Club. This and the club business will occupy
the evening of to-morrow (Friday), in the
Upper Hall of the Athenaeum.
Dorothy Grimston (Mrs. Meyer) will
shortly begin teaching the young’ stage as-
pirant to elocute and move gracefully on the
boards. Dorothy has a fund of experience
to draw on. She is the daughter of the cele-
brated Mrs. Kendal, and had years of Lon-
don experience at the Wyndhafn and Garrick
Theatres, also with Rfejane. She is prepar-
ing, by the way, for some Repertory Theatre
appearances.
In the front stall of Her Majesty’s, these
“Girl-in-the-Train” times, one sees the sleek
heads of youths who love a stage door.
They must scheme like financiers to get the
wherewithal for the suppers, for the local
johnnie children, as a rule, are only gilded
in spots. Once when some fatuous little
chappies were buying a lot of expensive
charity dance tickets for the dazzlement of
some girls, I heard a moneyed nmmma, who
was looking on, remark cynically, “I sup-
pose we mo!hers will have to pay!” It is
the usual thing, when dad has put his foot
down, for the boys to appeal to the mater.
Someone fresh from Fogtown tells me that
the well-established Margaret Cooper’s rival
there is Betty Gordon —a harum-scarum
youngster with a vivid and endearing per-
sonality. But whereas Margaret loves
clothes and has a genius for (hem, Betty is
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, * Southampton.*
said to appear in the best drawing-rooms,
carelessly hooked across the back, her hat
bashed on at any careless angle, and, as likely
as not, with wisps of curly hair escaping.
But her eyes are wondrous bright, and her
personality takes her audience captive.
There have been complaints about Mar-
garet Cooper’s simplicity in dressing, by
those who think they know the science of
duds from A to Z. So far as I can make
out, they belong to the class which regards
a gold-framed illuminated address from the
Grand United Order of Ancient Hodcarriers
as the last word in Art.
Last week-end, Lily Brayton and husband
Oscar transferred themselves from Menzies'
to the Whitings’ St. Ivilda shelter. Theatrical
folk are always made welcome at Kara, though
the friendship of son and heir Harry for
a fair mummeress did not ripen into a matri-
monial alliance. By the way, Harry, in his
capacity of automobile lieutenant, recently
oiled tlie G,-G. in his new motor to the Kil-
more camp. The car and some smiling acres,
’tis said, came his way when the mummeress
incident was closed.
Miss Birtles, who sings before the “Kis-
met” curtains, is a Huffy little fair girl who
trots round Melbourne these cold days in a
coat made from several loads of squirrels’
pelts. Melba gave the little singer a special
pat on the back the very first performance.
She left her seat, and went behind the
scenes to specially smite the spine of Miss
Birtles.
A fair sprinkle of friends and outsiders
came to criticise Doris Madden’s efforts, at
the Masonic Hall, last week. The little
pianiste presented a quaintly childlike pic-
ture at the keyboard—until she rose to make
her bespectacled obeisance, and paused for
a thoughtful moment ere playing an encore
piece. A springlike pink costume effect
was spoilt by a coral-colored bandage round
her hair, which gave her an early Roman
aspect. Her friends contributed many re-
calls and sheafs of botanical offerings. But
why, in the name of Allah, don’t they sub-
due the electrics at these concerts? The
incessant glare is tiring, and affords the
fidgety female an opportunity of looking
about and criticising her neighbors. The
consequence is that furtive interruptions are
numerous, and much melody escapes un-
heard whilst sofneone is confiding to a friend
that the woman in front has a sharp pair
of shoulder-blades, and is not properly
hooked up.
Norman McKeown, the ex-Sydney actor,
is scurrying through London these days
with a bundle of dramas clutched in his fist.
Recently he was mentioned three times in a
single issue of a London journal, and each
time he was reported it was as the author
of a different play. The three efforts were
“Demagogues,” “The Chalk Line” (written
in collaboration with Fabian Ware), and
“Travellers,” the happy dramatic salad that
mixed up love with superman philosophy.
The first playlet was done in style at the
London Court on a Sunday night; the
second was given an airing at the Queen’s;
while: the ethics of the last were revealed
by Madge Mclntosh and others at the New
Princess Theatre.
Actress Florence Quinn, who has been
playing Conscience in “Everywoman,”
shortly departs to London on matrimony
bent. Cricketer Frank Foster, who helped
England gather up the overdone ashes in
Australia, is waiting for Florence on the
other side.
The sketch exhibition of the Victorian
Artists’ Society comes as a new idea from
the newly-elected president, W. Montgomery,
who opened the show, the other Tuesday,
with a few shy remarks and no vice-regal
assistance. The scale-climbers of the Mar-
shall Hall Gonservatorium had to be shooed
off the premises for a fortnight to allow this
selection of artistic trifles to occur. Amongst
the many sketches hung, the total absence of
the nude is-remarkable. One would suppose
that human nature is never nude. The ex-
hibition will be open for another week, when
perhaps the red spot will become more fre-
quent. Thus far, the collection presents
very little appearance of having caught
buyers’ measles. A few people came to the
opening of the small show in an out-of-the-
way building; but thousands stayed away,
and it is suspected that quite a number
didn’t know it was on. If it remains where
it is, or happens again in the same place,
nobody will discover it by accident. It seems
a pity, because it is an interesting little ex-
hibition.
Talking of Ada Ward’s re-conversion to
the world, etc. A correspondent says she
remembers Ada when she first took the floor
at the Salvation Army Barracks in Bourke-
street. She looked sweetly demure in her
black frock, with her halo of Titian red hair
carefully done over a frame. She steered
clea'r of the hideous lassie’s bonnet, and wore
instead a smart black hat. And all the time
she smiled a sweet footlight smile, and gener-
ally contrived to look 50 per cent, more desir-
able than the nicest Christian present.
The story of a muff. A little typist tripped
proudly into a shop the other morning, and,
with carefully-hoarded pounds, bought her-
self a black fox muff. On taking it home,
something hard in the lining of the treasure
decided her to slit the silk. The enclosure
turned out to be a small silver purse con-
taining considerable gold. Poor and incur-
ably honest, she appeared again at the shop
and told the Lord Chief Paris Hat of her
astonishing find. Inquiries revealed the fact
that a moneyed lady had had the muff on
approval for a fortnight, but returned it,
and, later, departed to England for good.
At present, the position is that a good deal
of money belongs to nobody in particular, but
that a little typist deserves it as a reward
for her courage in being really extravagant
once in a long, dull lifetime consisting mostly
of “Your favor of the 15th inst. to hand, and
contents noted.”
Young married women who have no off-
spring of their own to play with, are a great
worry to the mothers of nice young men. A
tall youth, who is still in his teens, and be-
longs to a southern wool family, is the pre-
sent pet of the fashionable female unem-
ployed—unem-baby-ployed, so to speak. He
is so petted and purred over that his only
hope of salvation seems to be for Dad to
come up to town and hunt him to work.
There’s an empty space at the east end of
Collins-street which looks like a gap in a
good set of teeth. The Taits are gradually
filling it with a concert hall, and they
promise to look well to the ventilation.
Prospective “houses” sigh with relief; the
only concert halls available now were built
when fresh air was excluded like an armed
lunatic or a tiger.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
There was racing at Morohettville on Saturday, and
good Brither Wowser, had he been there (which,
thank Providence, he wasn't), would have yelped with
pain to see the business done by the Ladies’ Tote.
Most of the Old Brigade—in a horsey manner of
speaking—were in evidence. Various members of
the Rymill clan improved the appearance of the lawn,
as did Mrs. H. P. McLachlan (who had the pleasure
of seeing her husband score a win with Islam), Mrs.
Starter Nat Campbell, and Mrs. O’Leary.
Mrs. Cameron-Swan, the Scufflette, orated upon the
ethics of window-busting at Bricknell’s cafe, what
time her mail-boat attended to the business of ship-
ping cargo and the like. Men were cordially invited,
but the craven wretches feared to turn up--with the
exception of one M.P. and a couple of reporters, ail
armed to the teeth, so rumor had it. The hyphenated
revolutionary was in white, with a huge floppy hat,
whereon the violet and green colors of her creed were
artistically and flowingly displayed. Her voice and
manner are charming, but she doesn't seem to have
anything particularly arresting to say. Her remarks
last week were mostly concerned with Mr. Asquith's
Perfidy, the Unfairness of the Press, and so on.
A private letter from London gives good accounts
of Bessie Davidson and Elsie Hamilton, who are work-
ing hard at their respective businesses of Art and
Music.
The Lyric Club started business in its new quar-
ters on Frida v evening. There is less room to swing
a cat than there was in the old'shop, but what of it?
Club life, after all, is not entirely a question of cat-
swinging. As a matter of fact, the modern member
feels that, provided the essentials are satisfactory,
he can well sacrifice such luxuries, being vastly
humbled these days by the~rise in rents and the sky-
ward tendency of prices generally.
Archdeacon and Mrs. Barsell left on Friday for
England. They will spend most of their time in
Rochester, where Mrs. Barsell’s brother holds a steady
job as Bishop. Those who are in the inner clerical
running hint that the Barsells may never return
(there are still some good things left in the sky-
pilotage line in Merrie England), but we are hoping
for the best.
The A.N.A. is worried over the ravages that have
been made on its funds of late, in the form of sick
pay. The latest balance-sheet shows an advance in
this connection of over 00 per cent., which is cer-
tainly a trifle steep.
Why is Judge Gordon staying away from us so
long? The popular answer to the above conundrum
is: Because he will shortly climb or lie hoisted on to
the High Court Bench.; The Gordons are a popular
crowd, and the Judge is among the best of a good
lot. He is the brightest speaker we have in these
parts.
Local Quakers gathered themselves together at
Blackwood the other evening, and passed a solemn
resolution condemning militarism and “all prepara-
tion for war,” and affirming their belief that “no men
were enemies.” As a matter of literal truth, they
aren’t —at the present moment. But unless History
lies shamelessly it is certain that some men will tie
enemies some time. Ilow do the Quakers propose to
comport themselves when the ravening Asiatic, who
has, possibly, never so much as heard of a Peace
Society, transpires with a knife in his teeth and a
gun in his hand, and murder and rapine in his heart?
To the mere female it seems fairer that these anti-
Defence enthusiasts should band together and go away
and be aggressively, not to say melodramatically,
pacific all by themselves. They have been
busily reaping, for years and years, the mani-
fold " and tremendous" benefits which arise from
that security which is onlv attained in an
adeouately protected State, while sturdily evading
any personal risk or expense in the matter, and the
community is rapidly getting as sick of them as it
is of confidence men.
Murray Bridge is getting very, very fed up with
local option. The place has 2000 inhabitants, and
but one hotel. What would happen if all the alcohol-
lovers of the locality suddenly conceived a desire for
Beer at the same moment is a thought that opponents
of riot and beer-Sheol shudder to entertain.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


fiifc
■
MS
■x. *
m
m
mt
*
■
■
HIW '
mm.
% *
' ;'
J
sm
■
mm
'-xv
'
i sr*r**-
I'rsta I*s n Mm sss ~ r«
mm **m
'mmmm s,
■
■■
CHATEAU
THE
.\
\
sM
/
r-‘ "
~-~
s«
wisa
1
m
yfc
i .
;
i
:
:
: 1
©
. m
CHATEAU TANUNDA THREE STAR BRANDY is a pure
grape spirit, distilled in the very heart of the South Australian
vineyards* From the moment the delicate juices leave the presses
to undergo a perfectly natural development until many years after-
wards, when they are thoroughly matured by time, they remain
untouched by the hand of man*
Only one Quality of CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY is
placed on the market—Three Star —guaranteed to be thoroughly
matured* Large stocks of Brandy, from 15 to 20 years old, are kept
at the Chateau for blending with the one quality sold to the public*
Sold by all Hotels , Grocers and Wine and Spirit Stores.


t -
l M
Foggitt, Jones*
Jellied Pigs’ Feet
make a delightful luncheon dish.
They are packed in tint ready for
tervice. For tl.oae who like tome*
thing appetizing they are really
tmsurp&tt.ed. Your grocer hat
tKOrri'-atk him for a "fir. or two.
■ra
Just to Advertise !
8/6
A Sixpenny Bottle of Caldwell’s Ink
and a 12/6 14ct.-Cold Iridium-tipped
Special Pattern Self-filling 1 O/ft
Unleakable Fountain Pen, for OIV
If you can’t buy locally, send
Postal Note direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, STH. MELBOURNE.
SLEEPLESS
WITH SCIATICA.
«
Feverish Nights of Suffering
with a Bad Attack,
This Man Tells how He Drove It
from His System with
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills.
An attack of sciatica causing liim many
sleepless, feverish nights was endured by Mr.
Henry Wilkins, of South Fremantle, W.A.,
until he drove the complaint from his system
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Mr. Wilkins is a wonderful old man of
over 80 years, who now enjoys splendid
health, works about the garden, and has good
sight, hearing and memory. He lives with
his married daughter, Mrs. M. Malacaki, on
the Hamilton Road.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have been found
to be of great benefit in treating sciatica,
because it is a nervous disorder, and they
have proved of great value in toning the
nerves. When interviewed by a reporter
Mr. Wilkins said :
“I had a very nasty attack of sciatica a
few years back. In outdoor work I would
very often get wet to the waist, going
through rushes and blackberry bushes, and
I suppose this was the original cause. It
took me slowly at first, and then increased
quite rapidly. I did not lie up with it. I
never would when ill unless absolutely neces-
sary, and I have generally enjoyed splendid
robust health. The pain was very great. I
could hardly walk, in fact I could rarely
go out, and I would have to press my hands
to my hip; that was the part chiefly affected.
I dreaded the night time, for as soon as I
got settled warm in bed the pain would
start worse than ever and bring on retching.
I w T ould just have to lie and bear it. I could
not close my eyes until the attack eased off,
and then I might drop off into a doze. The
sweat just poured out of me. I was so fever-
ish I was always longing for water to drink.
Sharp pains like a knife-thrust would go
through the hip. I became a good bit pulled
down; I could not eat or relish my food. At
last I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
gradually the sciatica was driven out of my
system, and I am thankful to say has never
shown the least sign of coming back.”.
The price of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is
2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., and if you
have trouble in getting them, send a postal
note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney,
and they will be sent post free by return
mail.
fgh
fg
DENYER'S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort, itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Wri e.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
T.P.’s Weekly (London) recalls the fact
that the British Speaker’s one-time chair —the
one used in the old Parliament House which
was burned in the ’3o’s of last century—is
now in Melbourne. It was given to Speaker
Manners Sutton, and when his son, John
Henry Thomas of that ilk, afterwards Vis-
count Canterbury, became Governor of Vic-
toria, in 1866, he brought the goods with
him for reasons unknown. There being
already a Speaker’s chair in the Assembly
House at Melbourne, the dusty treasure was
put in a corner of the library, where it re-
mains to this day. Most people, sad to say,
take it for a mere ordinary chair, and don’t
know that it wasn’t made by a Chinaman in
Lonsdale-street or thereabouts.
BEHIND TIME.
Mr. Sidney Buxton, President of the Board of
Trade, speaking in the House of Commons, said the
rules governing the carrying of life-saving appliances
by British ships had not been revised since 1891). The
Board of Trade in 1911 asked its advisory committee
on merchant shipping to report on the matter. It
had never been the Board of Trade’s policy that ves-
sels which were well equipped with water-tight com-
partments should necessarily carry lifeboats sufficient
to accommodate all the passengers and crew.
British Public: “Wake up, you slug, this
is 1912!”
“N” writes: —
There is a split in the Melbourne Socialist party.
Forty, including some principal men and women,
have seceded, and formed a new club. The grievance
is that the party has become too conservative, and
moved away from the ideas of the founder, Mann,
of the Beer-and-Water Hotel. He always declaimed
against the Labor party, and said Socialists would
get more from the Tories. So the present Melbourne
seceders object to the support given by the news-
paper which is the party organ to Fisher’s defence
system and the general items of his policy, even the
Commonwealth Bank. The anarchical will always
creep into Socialism. Note how the French Revolu-
tion descended from Mirabeau’s ideas to Danton’s, to
Robespierre’s and to Hebert’s. The remaining mem-
bers of the Melbourne Socialist party, still much out-
numbering the seceders, hold that the Labor party
ought to be firmly supported, though always with the
idea of driving on Fisher and Co. to Socialism.
SKIN DISEASES,
including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains,
Eingworn, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Everybody agrees with Burns that “a man is a
man for ali that,” but this matter-of-fact old world
will go on pigeon-holing men. Somehow men always
seem to be taken at their prima facie value. If
they “put o-n front” they’re sure to win. If a man
has a clean-shaven face and looks a youth, he’ll be
treated as such, very often irrespective of his capa-
bilities. If he has a “cricket team” on either side
of his top lip, he’ll hear of it from his friends. A
strong, full, manly moustache makes a man look as
if he “meant it.” It gives confidence and creates re-
spect—it assists the wearer to make headway in
the world. Capillarine, the famous moustache
grower, will give every man a handsome moustache
in quick time. See Craig and Aitken’s advertisement
of this issue.*
Britain has resumed drinking to drown
its sorrows. The national liquor bill tor LU-1
is estimated at £5,000,000 more than the
beer-damage for the previous year.
Four election conventions ought to be
killed. One is the unanimous vote of con-
fidence given to the candidate who after-
wards loses his deposit. The other three
are the three cheers given for the candidate
who hasn’t a hope.
THE SCULLER.
The fact came to light at a dinner last night to
the departing eight-oar crew for the Olympic Games
at Stockholm that the High Commissioner, Mr. George
Reid, was at one time an oarsman.
—London news item.
We also have a dim and misty recollection of
Reid as a sculler, but only upon the political
waters.
“Geofred”: Good news comes upon us
like a flood from dear old Freetrade Eng-
land. The following advertisement appeared
in a Wallingford (Berkshire) paper during
February, :• —
Estate office clerk wanted at once. Good ac-
countant estate and farm accounts. Knowledge of
simple surveying, maps, tracing, rates and taxes, and
general office work, who is also musical, and can
undertake the duties of organist in country parish.
Married or single. Combined salary, £65 to_ £7O.
Apply in own handwriting, giving full particulars
and qualifications, to the Agent, Shiburn Estate
office.
In the face of that, what can one do save
give three cheers and sing the National
Anthem ?
The farcical nature of the pre-
sent Protection, as compared with
that under the old Victorian tariff,
and the policy adopted by the State
Government and public bodies, of
importing every scrap of machin-
ery they can, has so crushed Vic-
toria’s engineering firms that not
one of them tendered for any of
the locomotives the Railway Com-
missioners require to supplement
those being built at Newport work-
shops. So Walker’s Ltd., of Mary-
borough (Q.), gets a contract for
20, at £94,540 the lot. The re-
cently-imported 20 Baldwin (Amer-
ican) engines cost £86,160, and
those from the Beyer, Peacock
works, now on the water, £91,220.
The Newport shops can turn out a
similar number of the same class
at £70,400. So Tait’s “thrifty”
policy of starving the construction,
branches, and his neglect to make
provision for the future will cost
the State £24,000 on that one item
alone. As 210 privately built en-
gines are to be bought in the next
three years, that means a loss to
the department of a quarter of a
million. Wonderful was Tait’s
economy.
The Congressional Record, which is
the Hansard of the United States, is a
holy fraud, likewise a mockery, a delusion, a
goblin, a snare, a lie and a darned poor
uncle from Fiji. It contains a crowd of
speeches that were never spoken at all. It
is quite a common practice at Washington
for a member, after reading a few sentences
from a bulky roll of manuscript, to move
for “leave to print in the Record.” The
House looks at the bundle of sheets
of closely-written paper, carries the mo-
tion unanimously, and heaves a sigh of
relief. Then the undelivered speech goes
into the Record, and is reproduced
in the local papers. Congressman Dupre
demands that, in future, no speeches
except those actually delivered shall appear
in the Record. He says the fraud is inten-
sified by the fact that “Loud cheers” ap-
pears ait intervals.
A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION, begotten of seden-
tary habits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver
and other organs. The best remedy for this unde-
sirable state of affairs is to stimulate the activity of
the whole bodily economy by taking a wineglassful
of “HUNYADI JANOS” natural aperient water every
morning.*
The N.S.W. banks had £BOO,OOO less coin
on hand at March 31 than they had three
months earlier, and £1,301,322 less than they
had a year earlier. The great importing folly
is eating up the country’s cash reserves, and
unless an improved tariff comes along to
check it the beginning of the lean years is
very close at hand.
Tasmania, despite its craze for importing
foreign capital and selling all its valuable
opportunities to foreign syndicates, moves a
little. Thus a lot of its magnificent water
power has been jobbed away for about
nothing to a foreign co., and now a foreign
woollen co., attracted by the water power,
thinks of starting a factory in Hobart. And
Tassy’s share will be the same as usual. It
will supply the labor (cheaply), and hump
the heavy loads (economically), and sweep
up (at a low price).
Having got their two imported gasoline
motors in working order, , the Victorian
Railway Commissioners have now ordered
part of a steam motor from the Bull coun-
try. Tenders were at first invited for the
whole car, but it was found that
the framework and furnishings
could be built more cheaply here,
so only the engine, boiler and
driving gear are to be imported. Probably
these could have been made here more
cheaply also, but the habit of leaping abroad
for goods is as ingrained as the custom of
eating horse-radish with roast beef. Horse-
radish tastes just as well with boiled mut-
ton or devilled kidneys, but no one dreams of
using it therewith. It’s just a habit.
By “O.K.”: —
A mighty strong plea for Government recognition
of Portland's natural rights as a Vic. seaport is the
picture of “Portland from the Bay,” in “Victoria
Illustrated,” published by the firm of Sands and
Kenny, in 1857, and reprinted half a century later.
Even in ’57, when the coming Melbourne monopoly
of shipping trade was deep-rooted, Portland retained
a measure of importance, and the old print shows a
town bigger, apparently, than it is to-day. Given
fair railway facilities for shipping trade, Portland
couldn’t have failed to advance during the years it
has stagnated. Of all the- instructive illustrations of
Victoria in its early golden days, the most interest-
ing is that of the place which the Henty brothers
chose for their whaling station ere Melbourne had
been invaded by Batman and Fawkner. Portland, in
1857, may have been rather more flourishing, but was
probably less flourishing than in 1850, when the total
population of Victoria was only 77,000. Anyhow, it
was still spoken of as a town with a future, although
the gold rush had added 340,000 persons to the State
in those seven years, and the Henty town had got
none of them. An English school-book, published by
Maunders in the same year that Sands and Kenny
brought out their “Victoria Illustrated,” has nothing
of special comment on the seaport aspect of the new
land of gold, except that “Portland Bay, in the
westerly division of the province, is the outlet for
a rich agricultural tract of country, rapidly increas-
ing in population.” In the light of the evidence of
55 years ago, many Victorian Governments stand
convicted of perpetuating a gross injustice upon that
western district. In 1871 Portland was briefly de-
scribed as a town of 2364 people, lying beside a
harbor 12 miles by 24 miles, and capable of accom-
modating “the largest fleet in the world.” In 1901
the harbor was still there, but the population was
down to 2185.
“Orient” writes: —
Dr. Sun, in his China lecturing tour, has for his
immediate object the rousing of public opinion upon
the purchase of the railroads. We only learn this
by cable all the way round by London. They might
hardly have begun yet but for the development of
the telegraph, which commenced with the fighting
against France, in the south, about 1884. Couriers
took a week between there and Pekin. Danes were
employed to lay down the telegraph, which quickly
spread. As far back as the 60’s of last century, a
first-rate engineer, named Macdonald, submitted a
complete railway scheme to the Manehu Government,
which would -not listen to it. Many years afterwards,
Private Enterprise made the Woosung railway, 20 miles
out of Shanghai. Run for a little time, but torn
up. Years having elapsed again, the Government
authorised the Pekin and Tientsin line, but only for
trucks, with coal, etc. Even Jay Gould propounded
a grand scheme of Chinese railways, with £30,000,000
capital. The Russian Siberian scheme was a great
hastener. The pig-tailed Government then wanted
to make railways without any foreign capital. Un-
fortunately, it could not raise money. Chinese capi-
talists would not invest. The richest man _in the
country only offered £5O. So there was devised the
idea of playing the capitalists of Britain, America,
■Germany, France, Belgium and Japan off against
each other, with a piebald System, and always an
underlying determination that the Government would
seize all railways when the time was ripe. Therefore
Sun does not start forth with anything new to the
enlightened of China. But there are now traces of
Chinese capital in China’s 4000 miles of railroad, and
things are improving.
Dr. Springthorpe is advising Melbourne
people to take steps to cultivate the neg-
lected sense of smell. This is wise. Vic-
torian politics will never improve while the
local sense of smell is scarcely perceptible.
The Irish Home Rule Bill, with its half-
hearted attempt to make the Irish Parlia-
ment independent, and its half-hearted at-
tempt to keep it in complete subservience to
the Imperial Legislature in London, is some-
thing to begin with, just as were the single
Chambers —part nominee and part elected
on a property franchise —of Australia. But
it isn’t the end, by a long, long way. The
weakest point is the proviso that Ireland
must not levy protective duties against Eng-
land. One great cause of the ruin of what
was once about the richest and most en-
lightened little kingdom in Europe was the
law that all English goods should enter Ire-
land free, while Irish goods could not be
exported to any country except England,
and there they were liable to duties up to
300 per cent. Now it is time that Ireland
got a turn at protective duties against Eng-
land, so as to rebuild its lost industries.
STARVATION OF THE BODY.
The fact that indigestion and constipation are
fruitful causes of organic diseases cannot be widely
known, or these only too common complaints would
not be neglected, as they are in nine cases out of 10.
“It is only indigestion” is a common remark, and few
realise that indigestion might be termed “starvation
of the body,” for food that is not digested is not
assimilated by the blood, and the body is not pro-
perly nourished. Chamberlain's Tablets will cure the
most obstinate case of indigestion, and many a long
sufferer owes his present good health to a course cf
Chamberlain's Tablets.*
They take a great interest in prison re-
form and the proper treatment of degener-
ates in Victoria, which is probably why J.
G. Turner is expected to be chosen as the
new governor of Pentridge. Turner was
previously head of the Horticultural branch
of the Agricultural Department, and the
intimate relationship between roses and
hangings or blossoms and bigamy must be
obvious even to a blind horse—-the one that
couldn’t tell a wink from a nod.
A Divisional Court of the English King’s
Bench created a precedent last month that
will comfort those who make a practice of
exposing frauds, etc., in the press, on public
platforms and elsewhere. It decided that
the issue of a writ for libel does not neces-
sarily close the mouth of the alleged libeller
till the libel proceedings are over. Hence-
forward, where the aggrieved party is by
■way of being a public character, he will be
liable to be assailed, despite the issue of a
libel writ, so long as he persists in the
courses which brought the avalanche
of rebuke on his head in the first instance.
Most outspoken newspapers have had experi-
ence of the malefactor who gains immunity
from further exposure—often at a time when
it is very much to the public interest that
he should get all the exposure possible—by
starting a libel suit which he never means
to fight. Labouchere, in the palmy days of
London Truth, had unlimited experience, of
these pests. Usurers, fraudulent bookies,
begging-letter impostors, medical and reli-
gious quacks, etc., etc., eagerly availed them-
selves of an asinine law, retired behind the
impregnable ramparts of a libel writ, and
from that vantage-point continued their mal-
practices, secure in the knowledge that, so
long as they could hang the case up (and a
law case can be kept in a state of suspen-
sion for a remarkably long time, provided
the lawyer of the interested party knows his
business), they would be immune from fur-
ther assault. As above-mentioned, the Di-
visional Court’s judgment applies only to
libel-plaintiffs who bulk large in the public
eye. The pity is it didn’t go further, and
embrace every class of libel writ-issuer. The
remedy of the allegedly wronged party is the
same whether he is a whirling, spectacular
advocate of revolution and bloodshed, or some
obscure and furtive swindler doing business
in a back alley. If he is able to show that
the comments were unjustified he will get
pronortionately heavier damages for every
additional insult hurled at him. On the
other hand, assuming that the charges were
true and a fair thing, it is obvious that the
more of them that were forthcoming the bet-
ter for the pure well of Justice.
THE CHEAP POLICE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
On Tuesday the Treasurer will receive a deputa-
tion, which will ask for better pay and the restora-
tion of pensions to the police force, the present
rate of pay, 7s. a day, is considered altogether inade-
quate, and it will be contended that at least an
additional shilling a day should be given.— Argiis,
12/4/T2.
In the dismal after-midnight, when the burglars are
about.
And you listen, while your soul is filled with dim,
unworthy doubt,
To the creaking and the whisp’ring of the tittle-
tattling dark,
And you hear,' with premonitions, various dogs
begin to bark
Far across the silent houses—what can lull you off
to sleep
But the hooflng-by of John, who is reliable and
cheap ?
Tramping through the weary watches for a bob or
two a night,
John goes by—and, with his watches, Bill the
Burglar takes to flight
To the place where, in the morning, having labored,
he ma3 r rest,
And —oh, help! police! when William some fine
evening, is our guest,
Who will save our solid silver, which we'd really
like to keep,
If our John is absent—though he is reliable and
cheap ?
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


m
I * w
3C 1
•st>
w
p
D
m^z
md.
■h-
-"-iTT
MW
7 7 7 7 r
z? 7
The
Glorious
LIPP
PIANO
is famous righl
throughout the
musical world
for its wonderful
lasting qualities.
Highly sKilled artisans of many years’ experience are employed in building
L,IPP PIANOS. They use only the picK of the world’s finest materials—nothing
but the best is good enough to be placed in EIPP PIANOS.
THE LIPP PIANO is renowned for the breadth and purity of its tone, its
easy acflion and its elegant finish. It pleases the eye of the most artistic person,
and its pure, sweet tone captures the ear of not only the ordinary player but of
the artist as well.
We are sole agents in Australasia for EIPP PIANOS, and sell each instrument
covered by our own guarantee, which absolutely protects the purchaser. We
sell for Cash or on EASY TIME PAYMENTS. Old pianos taKen in part payment.
CATALOGUES and Particulars POST FREE.
W. H. Paling' Co. Ltd.,
338 GEOROE. ST
SYDNEY.
And at NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA,
NEW EDISON RECORDS
are on Sale To-day.
The Edison Phonograph is a wonderful entertainer. No form of
music is beyond its range of adaptation, and it is versatile enough to
reproduce all forms of sound, no matter how unusual or how common-
place.
Stirring band marches, witty dialogues, catchy coon songs, pretty
lullabies, screaming comics, the favorite old ballads, grand opera—all
are available on the Edison.
The new Edison Records for May are on sale at all dealers to-day.
Thev are a particularly fine selection, and include some of the _ finest
numbers we have yet issued. There are five “star” items by the incom-
parable Harry Lauder.
You should call on the nearest Edison dealer and ask him to let
you hear some of them. On request, we will forward his address, toge-
ther with lists of Edison Phonographs and Records. v
Amberol Records for May.
(FOUR-MINUTE.)
815 — Don Juan Overture
Edison Concert Band
816 — Tosti’s—Good-Bye !.. Reed Miller
818 — Madame Butterfly—Fantasie (Vio-
loncello solo). . .Victor Sorlin
819 — Only to See Her Face Again
Will Oakland and Chorus
820 — Pinafore Airs —No. 2
Edison Light Opera Co.
821 — I Will Love You.. Manuel Romain
823 — Dream Faces
Elizabeth Spencer and Chorus
824 — The Harbor of Love
Irving Gillette
825 The Old Town is Looking Mighty
Good To-night
Van Brunt and Chorus.
826 The Pink Lady (Selection)
American Standard Orchestra
828— The Bloom is on the Rye
Anthony and Harrison
829 — L’Elegante Polka (Xylophone
solo) Charles Daab
830 — I Laughed at the Wrong Time
Cal Stewart
832—I Want a Girl. Van Brunt & Chorus
834 Anvil Chorus—“ll Trovatore”
Edison Light Opera Co.
835 — The Lord is My Shepherd
Miller and Croxton
836 Valse Julian
American Standard Orchestra
838 — The Lighthouse by the Sea
Knickerbocker Quartette
839 — The Dwellers in the Western
World, No. 3, “The Black Man”
Sousa’s Band
12351—My Sweet Rosetta. .Billy Williams
12352—Your’re the One . . Billy Williams
12354 —The Bedouin Love Song
David Brazell
12355 —John James O’Hara?
Florrie Forde
12357 —Rock of Ages Ernest Pike
12359—Mr. John Mackie.. Harry Lauder
12360 —Jean M'Neil .... Harry Lauder
12361—The Blarney Stone.. Harry Lauder
12362 —That’s the Reason Noo I Wear a
Kilt Harry Lauder
17104—Fragments of Popular Airs
Garde Republicaine Band
Standard Records for May.
(TWO-MINUTE.)
10521 —La Guapa Spanish Dance
New York Military Band
10523 —When I’m Alone I’m Lonesome
Anna Chandler
10525—The New Tipperary March (Ac-
cordion solo) .. John Kimmble
14081 —Just Like Being at Home
Harry Lauder
14082—Toronto Jig (Banjo solo)
Oily Oakley
14085 —Oh! Napoleon .... Florrie Forde
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
SPECIAL FREE OFFER!-
FroJi the British Record Proprietary Ltd.,
23 Geo 'ge Street West, Sydney
To Users of Our “FLAG” BRAND Records.
To every responsible and approved person applying who agrees to use our Records
and purchase from us (for a limited period) at least One Record per week, we will give
One of om Rondophones entirely Free
1
THIS HANDSOME WELL-BUILT INSTRU-
MENT is our own exclusive specialty, and
is absolutely up-to-date, and contains every
modern improvement, price £3/10/-.
THE CABINET is a handsome and sub-
stantial construction in SOLID DARK
OAK, 12| x 12-3 x 6 in., polished to a fine
piano finish.
Powerful silent STEEL MOTOR fitted
with the latest frictionless bearings, finely
proportioned nickel-plated TAPER 1 ONE
ARM, accurately balanced lOin. Turn-
table, large 16in. Sound Trumpet with
nine leaves, decorated in a charming
combination of softly blended Art Shades.
THE SOUND REPRODUCER is con-
structed in harmony with the latest
developments of the science of acoustics,
and possesses adequate power to per-
form full MILITARY BAND SELECTIONS with all
their original brilliance and realistic effect, and is so
exquisitely sensitive as to produce with perfection the
most delicate passages of orchestration, as well as the
minutest variations of the Solo Artist s voice. Such
An Opportunity of Acquiring a First-class Instrument
has never before been offered in the world’s history,
and the above offer is made for the purpose of
Popularising our Records and as a Huge Advertisement.
The RONDOPHONE will last a life time. Warranted 2 yeras.
OUR “FLAG ” RECORDS are the BEST on the Market, are DOUBLE-SIDED
and FULLY GUARANTEED. NEW SUBJECTS BY EVERY MAIL.
We Control the Largest Stock of Records in the World.
REMEMBER! We make no extra charge for our Records. We have ONE
Price only. Purchasers in the ordinary way of business pay the same as those to
whom we give aßondophone.
The Rondophone is given away Absolutely Free as stated
FULL PARTICULARS AT OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
The British Record Proprietary Limited
23 George St. West, near Harris St., Sydnev


hfg
KUPPER
LACER
LET
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap
take its part in your everyday
toilet —to keep the skin in good
condition, to remove all traces
of perspiration and to protect
against infection.
Your local Chemist or Stores
sells it in 3 tablet boxes.
Makers t
F. C. Calvert & Co,. Manchester. Fng.
"SHELL"
SPIRIT
IS THE
MOST ECONOMICAL
THEREFORE
IT IS CHEAPEST
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
B. RBSCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLME! & 00., PERTH, KALOOOHLIE an* OOOLCAROIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The latest news at time of writing is that
the Legislature of the Territory of New Mexico has
passed a special Act to legalise the Johnson-Flynn
scrap. The promoters will require to build a ring,
as there is nothing large enough on the spot to hold
the crowds that they hope to see present. It will be
erected at Los Vegas, a place a short distance out of
Santa Fe, the capital of the Territory. The Bill was
carried by a majority of 29 to 17, and the same
message that brought the news also informed a smil-
ing world that the great Madison Square Gardens in
New York had been leased to an athletic club at a
rental of a: 60,000 per annum. The club announced
its intention of staging championship boxing matches,
and also its intention to bar Johnson. No doubt the
Santa Fe legislators reckoned that the fight would be
a fairly good advertisement for the place, just as the
Nevada people did when they put up a huge purse
for a fight at Goldfield. In this case the ad. will
cost New Mexico nothing; the other one cost the
Goldfield people a big wad of money, which they did
not get back from the influx of fight-seers.
Clubby, the Yankee boxer with the Adonis-
like face, flatly declines to train himself down to
lOst. 71b. to fight Hughie Mehegan for the welter-
weight championship of so much of the globe as lies
outside the shadow of the Stars and Stripes. But,
curiously enough, he declares he is willing to get as
low as lOst. 81b., as he did before, and it doesn’t
seem good sport to deprive Mehegan of his chance of
winning a championship for the sake of 16 ounces.
The truth of the matter is that Olabby knows it takes
lim all he can to get to the lOst. 81b. limit; and
there comes a time in reduction of weight when a
■ingle ounce is almost as hard to shift as Kosciusko.
That time with Olabby is about lOst. 81b. But why,
i udor such circumstances, he can’t be a sport and say
sii. is beyond all human understanding. It merely
fl.ows how necessary it is that the Mclnstoush should
get his brother promoters of Europe and Amurka to
orni an association for the proper government of
I oxing. Where the injustice comes in is that unless
the ha tic is fought at the lOst. 71b. weight, it has
■ o tearing on the championship. So, although
Mehegan may do infinitely better work by defeating
Olabby at a greater weight, he is penalised for it by
being" unable to claim the reward. It is understood
that the disturbance will raise the resin at Sydney
Stadium on the night of May 4.
Yll careful mothers teach their sons two
things; and, yea, some there be that teach them
three. Never to leave the red ball over the pocket;
never to explore the mechanism of the motor-car with
the finger ; and to always empty the bottle before hit-
ting the thug with it. Samuel McVea’s mamma seems
to have overlooked number two, even if she did her
duty with the others; so when, last week, Samuel
poked his fingers into the works of his motor-car the
wheels went suddenly round, and Sam did a quick-
step. After someone had removed a small strip of
flesh, the finger was bound up, and Sam announced
that as it was his right hand it would not interfere
with his preparation for the return battle with Lang-
ford on May 11. But he reckoned without the finger,
which, being swift of foot, took a hand in the busi-
ness, and speedily came to a head, thus going back
op Samuel, though he tries to put the best
possible face on the matter. At time of
writing Samuel’s hand is larger than he likes, and
his forearm shows signs of a bacillary invasion. So
for a while Samuel must be, perforce, a peaceable
citizen, and the fight with Langford is off.
Last October Forfar (Scotland) Masonic
Lodge made a giddy exhibition of itself by initiating
Jack Johnson, champion pug, premier gold-mouth
exhibitionist, alleged scientist, Shakspearian “stunt-
ist,” ’cello player, dress elegantist, etc., as a member
of the ancient" Craft. But it reckoned without the
Grand Lodge of the county, which came down heavily
with the goat in one hand and a battle-axe in the
other, and forbade the lodge to proceed further with
the glorification of Johnson. The Grand Lodge felt
that any pug was outside the pale, but a pug who
was also a buck-nigger was over the odds. Still
Masonry, taking itself very seriously, was perplexed.
Once a man is a Mason he remains one for ever, and
nothing can take his Masonry from him. The ques-
tion was how to deprive Johnson of that which no
man can be deprived of. It was a difficult problem,
but the Grand Lodge, having wrestled with it over
five months, has now delivered judgment. It has
ordered the Forfar lodge to cancel all its proceedings,
and kill the goat which Johnson rode at the initiation
ceremony. That done, and the goat having been
buried at four cross roads, with hoots, and a stake
through its inside, the Forfar lodge is to be precluded
from further foolery for a period of three years. By
that time, it is hoped, Johnson may have died or
been shot. Australia isn’t the only place that draws
the color line.
A scrap of inside history. It is not gener-
ally known, but is nevertheless a fact, that at one
time the McGowen (N.S.W.) Government seriously
considered the question of imposing a tax of 10 per
cent, on the price of admission to all sports and
amusements, excepting, of course, church bunfights,
bazaars, and those incubators of immorality, Sunday-
school picnics. It was an idea that strongly com-
mended itself to the Wowseristically-inclined mem-
bers of the Government. But Attorney-General Hol-
man was sensible, and jumped on the proposal with
both feet. His argument was that such a tax would
be not only unfair but injudicious, as it would hit
only the "people who already gave more towards
charity than any other section of the community.
Boxers, theatricals, swimmers, are all prolific givers,
cither by way of hard cash or hard work. Which
is gospel truth. The sportsman and pleasure-seeker
do give; the Wowser merely yells to the effect that
the finger of the Deity is a mysterious thing, and
shakes his whiskers in the wind, as he iqakes for
the sandhills with his binoculars, to keep both eyes
on the surf-bathing. The idea that it would be the gilded
managers and promoters like J. O. Williamson, the
Mclnstoush and the Rugby League that would pay
the money was quite erroneous. These astute parties
would have done as Tattersall’s sweep people did—
pass it on, all naked, and flagrant, to hit the public
eve in the advertisement first and the pocket after.
When the 11th round of Sydney Metro-
politan Cricket concluded, North Sydney was at the
top of the poll with 18 competition points, chased
closely by University with 17 and Redfern 16. When
the 12th round commenced North Sydney found itself
opposed to Redfern; so it was a case of “one of us
two, Herminius, shall never more go home!” North
Sydney started well by winning the toss, and went
in on an excellent wicket, but failed to do anything
worthy of the occasion, the side being all out for
120. Only four men reached double figures, and of
these the best was Solomon Hill, brother of Clement.
He whacked 38. Redfern was elated. For if it
could score a three-point win, and University
should only make a two-point one over Central Cum-
berland, there would be a dead-heat and a deciding
match. On the other hand, if the crowd from Parra-
matta overthrew the Students, then Redfern would
have got away with the bauble. But, if Redfern
scored only a two-point win, and Uni. does the same,
which is of course the most probable, then Univer-
sity will win the premiership, with Redfern for run-
ner-up. So Redfern went in and smote like Tom-
linson pounding on the gate of Hell. With hard
work and careful attention to business it did so well
that by the time sticks were drawn it had accumu-
lated 187 for the loss of three wickets. So it has
more than the chances that cheered the late Buckley
on his way.
The chances of University being thrown out
by Central Cumberland to make way for Redfern
look somewhat remote. The team from Parramatta
won the toss, but Stack and Single got loose on them,
and Stack dropped five wickets for 50, and Single
laid out four for 28, which was fairly deadly. Cen-
tral Cumberland vanished for 146, and University
slogged up 101 for the loss of three batsmen by the
time the light gave right out. Not much interest
attaches to the other matches, as their results have
no bearing on the destination of the premiership.
Balmain called on Waverley, and belted 173 out of
it, and Waverley let the answering stand over, as all
the good light was used up. The local followers of
Paddington and Glebe rolled up in great force, and
took more interest in the struggle of divisions than
in the premiership. Glebe, winning the toss, stayed
at the sticks all the afternoon, and by nightfall had
run up 198 for the loss of six wickets. Petersham
came out in an amazing style, and walloped off the
huge score of 407 for the loss of six wickets on the
Sydney bowling. The half-dozen included two cen-
tury getters—Norton with 136, and Newtown with
105. Middle Harbor went up to Burwood, and that
inhospitable suburb at once whacked its bowling for
204. By the time Middle Harbor had returned the
complement to the extent of hitting up 16 without
losing anything, the day had faded.
Ex-South Australian “Solly” Hill is build-
ing a reputation in Sydney First Grade cricket very
fast indeed. In four innings this younger brother of
the great but now busted Clement has top-scored
every time. Note the progress: 37, 82, 131, and 38
—2BB runs at an average of 72 per innings. Such
consistency deserves a halo to itself.
The curtain has dropped for the season
on Melbourne pennant cricket. As forecasted by this
paper early in the season, Northcote finished at the
head of the list, with Carlton, East Melbourne and
South following in that order. The premiers, led
by the inter-State veteran, Bob Mitchell, who is
hovering on the edge of 50, were a young team,
lacking in “stars” (only one of its members, Norman
Brown, gained a place in the Victorian team this
season), but of fair average merit, and essentially a
happy family. Also, it was the best fielding side
in the competition. Northcote really had the pen-
nant won a couple of months ago, and an attitude of
blank indifference on the part of both players
and the public towards the final stages of
the season was the result. The association
is assailed with doubts as to the advisa-
bility of continuing the present method of awarding
the pennant outright to the best team. It is
thinking hard of reverting to the old system, which
was brought into vogue some years ago, when East
Melbourne were annexing the premiership with
monotonous regularity. Under this method the four
highest teams on the list conduct semi-final and final
arguments in the same manner as the League foot-
ball clubs. The present way is, of course, much
the fairer, but when one team shows any marked
superiority over the others, it causes the game to
become very sick long before the approach of winter.
The general level of pennant cricket for the year
was a low one, but, at the same time, there are indi-
cations that the drought from which the game has
suffered in Wearyland for the past seven or eight
years is about due to break. It is a pleasing cir-
cumstance that the season that has just closed be-
longed to the colts. One of them, Park, the Wesley
College boy, headed the list of batting averages for
Melbourne, being some distance in front of those
eminent letter writers, V. Ransford and “Jumbo”
Armstrong. Another colt, in the person of the afore-
mentioned “Jumbo’s” younger brother, topped the
bowling list. Two more youngsters. Jack Walker
(now in the Ma State) and Lee Braid, put up the
best batting and bowling averages respectively for
East Melbourne. Braid is regarded by many good
judges as the best left-hand bowler since Jack
Saunders, that mighty ball-tosser. Among other
young ’uns who should make themselves audible in
inter-State cricket next season are Fred Baring, who
has displayed a pleasing capacity for manufacturing
centuries, Lampard and Dean (Richmond) ; Delves,
Fitzroy; and Purvis, South Melbourne.
* * * *
Australian football, so long derided and
scorned of men in Sydney, begins to lift its head with
increasing confidence. On Saturday last the League’s
new ground at Alexandria was opened for the season,
and proves to be a very fine place, fitted with all
facilities and comforts. The opening match of the
season was a struggle between Sydney and East Syd-
ney. At the end of the first quarter East was in the
van with nine points to seven, but at half-time it
was altogether a different story. Sydney had put on
a spurt, and rushed up to 26 points, while East strug-
gled along gamely in the rear with 16. East was
outclassed, and continued to go to the dogs rapidly, so
that when three-quarter time arrived it had only
added one point, while the other crowd added 24.
Then the boilers of both teams gave out. The game
ended in a victory for Sydney with 50 to 20. The
Australian League has its other ground at Erskine-
ville ; and if it can manage to lease or otherwise ac-
quire the use of a couple more in other parts of the
Ma capital, there is no doubt the game will boom.
It is lack of playing fields, to which it could charge
admission, that kept it back so long.
N.S.W. Metropolitan Rugby Union is not
dead vet, neither doth it sleep, and it will struggle
for the gate money and the glory during the coming
winter with 10 first-grade teams, 14 second ditto, and
12 steerage. The Union’s great trouble is the continual
crossing over of its players to the League. They
learn their game under the Union, make good, and
then streak over the line into the gates of the
enemy before the Union begins to make any profit on
them" The result is that the average standard of
Union Rugby has a tendency to sink. Unless this
leakage can be stopped somehow, the standard will
plunge.
The League, on the other hand, is swell-
ing with proud hope. Last year it devoted its at-
tention to wresting the metropolis from the nerve-
less hand of the Union, and this season it will follow
its fainting rival into the country, and assault it
for possession of the football backblocks. The
position in the city will be maintained by the bring-
ing over of Maoriland and Queensland teams, and
interest will be aroused by the sending of teams to
both those States. The League is out for glory and
gore, and all other brands of hoof-ball are requested
to stand off the grass. The chief danger of the
League is that it may burst through too rapid in-
flation.
Australia may see a rare sort of race very
shortly. “Wizard” Stone, the Yankee flyer, has
challenged Australian aviator Hart to race him from
Sydney to Melbourne. Hart has accepted the chal-
lenge, and, at time of writing, is anxiously awaiting
particulars and details. Stone flies a Bleriot mono-
plane, and at present Hart is using an Australian-
built bi-plane. And the difference between a mono-
plane and a bi-plane is about the samp as that
between a racehorse and a carriage hack, so, of
course, it will be impossible for anything like an
equal race to eventuate until the fast monoplane
which Hart’s company is importing arrives. This
machine is now on the water, and is expected to reach
Sydney within the next few weeks. The weapon that
Hart is using at present could carry enough petrol
to see it through from Sydney to Melbourne in one
sustained flight, at the rate of about 60 miles per
hour —providing atmospheric conditions were favor-
able. But there is no monoplane a-wing at present
that can carry enough “juice” to keep a 50 h.p.
Gnome engine running for 500 miles. So in all
probability the race will be run in a series of flights
spread over a number of days. It would be an awful
strain on the fliers to traverse the whole 576 miles
(presumably they would follow the railway between
the two capitals), in one flight. A preliminary canter
is likelv to be held between Bathurst and Orange
(N.S.WIj.
The Yankee inventor is to the front again
with a cheap, simple and effective device for light-
ing motor lamps from the magneto. He met with a
sarcastic reception from the untravelled journalist,
who wanted to know if it was not possible to invent
a device bv which the motor man would be lifted
into the car. But the man who has burned his fingers
and risked his immortal soul trying to light his lamps
in the midst of a rain-storm riding on the wings of
a blizzard, knows the idea is valuable. It will not
be despised even by the city motorist, but the person
in a touring car, in the middle of a boundless plain,
with absolutely no shelter, will hail it as a perfect
God-send.
“The Parramatta Hundred,” on the
N.S.W. river of that name, on Saturday, didn’t at-
tract a horde of barrackers who roared like the bulls
of Bashan —a celebrated stock-raising locality in
days gone by—as similar wild cattle did at a like
venture a year ago. The two boats which followed the
scullers were but poorly patronised, and the Kemp
Sculling Club, which promoted the carnival, will be
lucky if it has the price of drinks all round left over
after squaring the accounts. And yet the energy
of the club deserved a better success, for the racing
was darned fine splendid, and the whole three heats
worth a bare-footed journey to behold. The manner
of A. Felton’s winning of the first heat from ssec
virtually scratch- —was a very glittersome gem ; the
clean blade-work of this promising back-marker being
beautiful to see. The third heat was a struggle be-
tween brothers Sid and Tom Kemp and W. Ripley,
winner of the last “Hundred.” It ended in a dead
heat between Ripley (14sec.) and T. Kemp (36sec.),
with Sid Kemp (lOsec.) just behind. C. Matterson
(50see.) took the other heat from F. Starr (16sec.)
and N. Hawkless (50sec.). The same hefty nine will
meet again in the final on Saturday.
Died, in Adelaide, suddenly, at 53, Hall
Henderson, a man who will be remembered chiefly as
one whom everybody trusted. He was agent or
trustee for widows and orphans past counting, auditor
of some big concerns, and private secretary and right-
hand man to the wildly affluent E. T. Smith. His
nerves had been out of order, but the end was utterly
unexpected ; indeed, only last month he won the
single-handed championship of the Adelaide Oval
Bowling Club.
* * * *
At Aspendale Park (Vic.) the other Tues-
day, there were two remarkable instances of a hot
favorite being left at the post. Punters 1 laid 10 to
nine on Hulbrook for the first race of the day, and
saw their money*'lost when the barrier rose. Hul-
brook whipped round and was J 5 lengths to the bad
ere he got going. Home Rule-) in the Steeplechase,
also whipped round, and lost SO lengths, whereupon
his 10 to nine on starting price lengthened to 10 to
one against. A number of astute persons took all the
10 to one they could get, and the far-away field
travelled so slowly that Home Rule eventually won
with ease. Although the winner had to give 2st. to
everything in the race, he was one of the glorious
certainties of the Turf.
“Hee Kee”: Agree heartily with a recent
statement that Perth is the meanest hamlet in the
Commonwealth. As evidence for the prosecution, the
case of swimmer Findlay may be cited. The local
branch of the Life Saving Society, a not-too-affluent
body, scraped together enough dross to send Findlay
to Britain, to compete for the King’s Cup, and when
he had splashed himself to victory, the society con-
sidered it advisable to raise more funds to enable
Findlay to compete in Continental events. In further-
ance of this end 25 of Perth’s wealthiest citizens
were approached,' with a view to extracting the neces-
sary wherewithal. Out of the 25 one responded with
a pleasurable guinea. Another, a leading judicial
cove, replied he couldn’t afford it, and the remaining
23 sat tight. The late Liberal Government was then
approached, on the grounds that Findlay was putting
up a good advertisement for W.A., but the Treasury
purse was particularly stringent that day. Subse-
quently the Government advanced the amount through
the Agent-General, on condition that the society
parted with the cost of the cable, and repaid the
total sum within a week. The last camel which
broke the straw’s back was when the Government
called on the society to pay the freight and insurance
on a trophy which gave W.A. a world-wide advertise-
ment.
The Reflections of St. Philharum :
Manv tongues make light talk.
Half the world is always trying to find out how
much the other half drinks.
It's a wise scandal that knows its own father.
You cannot judge a man’s Christianity by the size
of the Bible he carries to church.
: A Port Melbourne housekeeper has got
herself into trouble through keeping her little
servant girl in a cellar with piles of wood on
the door. Probably she had tried every other
way of keeping a servant.
The reflections of an Ancient Resident-
The proposed sale by the N.S.W. Government of
the site of the old barn which has so long sweltered the
Sydney High School girls, recalls some history. In
1820, when Roval Commissioner Bigge came from
England to see what sort of a fist Governor Macquarie
was making of things, lie turned a lot of Mac s
building projects down. One was the proposed
Georgian Public School on the site of the present
Supreme Court in King-street. Macquarie had laid
the foundation-stone of the building in June, 1819,
his intention being to use the place for the free edu-
cation of the “poorer classes.’’ Bigge vetoed the
scheme in favor of a court house. But Macquarie
was not defeated. Being offered as a gift by /homas
Rose the entire block bounded by King, Elizabeth,
Market and Castlereagh streets, as a place for a tree
school, his remote Excellency, while declining the
whole area, picked out the site of the preseul
academy, which was duly built by Colonial Architect
Greenway. The building was attached to St. James s
Church, and called “St. James’s C. of E. Model
School.” In the 80’s of last century it was used as
a high school for girls and boys; but, later, the bovsi
were shifted elsewhere. Thomas Rose, the original
owner of the land, was a Blandford (Eng.) farmer,
who received a free passage for himself and tannlj
to come out and teach the infrequent local hayseed
how it was done. He arrived by the Ballona in
1793, and was granted 130 acres at Liberty Plains,
at the head of Parramatta River. Eater, he obtained
more territory, including the town block on which he
built a pub, a brick granary and a bakery. rhe P«
(which stood on the site of the present Metropolitan
Hotel, King-Castlereagli-streets corner) was first
called the Rose and Crown. In 1855 it became the
Criterion, and, later it was Hamptons IL-e * t
favorite banqueting place, what time Hyde Park was
a racepourse.
Probably the most interesting side issue of
the Titanic horror was supplied by Benja-
min Guggenheim. He and his secretary
turned up in sweaters and pyjamas, and got
their lifebelts on. But presently the mil-
lionaire realised that there wasn t much ot
a show ; so he and his aide went and put on
their evening clothes, and then set to work
to help the women. “We. will go down like
gentlemen,” said Benjamin Guggenheim,
after the manner of a fine old Hebrew
peer. And he perished valiantly, and went,
in his biled shirt to Abraham’s bosom, it
was foolish, perhaps, but Benjamin the Jew
had the grit of his fathers.
SICK HEADACHE.
WOMEN SUBJECT TO FREQUENT
THROBBING, BURSTING HEADS.
There’s many a cause. Men are not often
troubled by headaches ; when they are it is
generally due to biliousness or indigestion.
Rut women have headaches which seem
peculiar to their sex, frequent, throbbing
Jjgadaches. Does it not seem that such head-
aches peculiar to women must be at once
related to womanly disease? Women who
Suffer with diseases peculiar to the sex do not
realise the drain of vital strength and nerve
force they undergo as a consequence of
disease. It is this that causes the headaches
of sick women. In other cases these pains
and disagreeable feelings are generally symp-
toms of some other complaint, _ such as indi-
gestion, biliousness and constipation, all ol
which are caused by corrupt, noxious matter
clogging the circulations! hence a strea m
or rush of blood to the head, and, by the
excitement, a great pressure on the brain.
“I was,” writes Mrs. Sarah Curzon, ot 2b
Broughton Street, North Sydney, “at one
time subject to severe headaches and neural-
gic pains in the head, which would cause
much distraction, nearly driving me mad, the
shooting and throbbing across the temples
being very distressing, and I seemed to be
completely run down and nervously pros-
trated. I could scarcely do any work, and
tried many remedies, but could not find any
to give me the relief that I have
received on taking your valuable remedy.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. _ I rarely
ever suffer now, but, if indisposed at
any time, I take a few of these pills, and
they not only ward off the attack, but make
me feel quite well. I think they are splen-
did, and am pleased to be able to give you a.
small testimony as to their healing quali-
ties, which you may use if you so desire.


Are You Well Equipped for
the Strenuous Battle of Life?
mu
HilslSN*'
|A -I >•
A'*
Nowadays the man who is not able to take
care of himself is brushed aside.
It is the old question of the survival of
the fittest, which means that the "weakest,”
or the inexperienced, or those who do not
grasp their opportunities to defend them-
selves must always “go to the wall.”
You will find that Scientific Boxing evens
things up. It will greatly reduce the disad-
vantages of lack of weight, and will develop
confidence in your ability. It shows you how
to get the maximum benefit of your natural
strength.
I TEACH BOXING
WBY POST
in a simple, concise and practical way. I
explain all that is worth knowing in Scien-
tific Boxing in such a manner that you
CANNOT fail to understand.
You will find it an excellent exercise and
a very fine recreation for the long winter
evenings. Here is your opportunity to
awaken the skill within you—to make you
stand out from your fellows in self-defence
—and cultivate self-reliance in time of need.
You should get all details of my instruc-
tion. I will be delighted to give you all
particulars of terms, and to send you booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which
gives complete information.
Kindly send 3d. to cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
17b Castlereagb Street, Sydney.
h
DON’T SUFFER!
“I was a sufferer from inward Piles for six years, and had
tried many so-called cures without deriving any benefit. Three
boxes of Murphy’s Pile Pills completely cured me.” J. W.
Clissold, Woy Woy.
Why should this man be cured, and you continue to suffer?
Why shouldn’t you do as he did —try Murphy’s Pile Pills, which
immediately reduce all congestion and swelling, and permanently
cure all forms of Piles, no matter how severe.
Sold by all up-to-date Chemists and Storekeepers. Price,
o/- per box, post free. Order direct, if not obtainable locally.
Sole Proprietors: ANDREW MURPIIY, LTD., Dept. 8.,
109 Regent Street, Sydney.
ANDREW MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
fgh
LI EUR.
mm m
fg
HERE'S A SPLENDID
WINTER BOOT v
If you are looking for comfortable, serviceable
and stylish footwear, we can strongly recommend
this boot.
It is an American Model, made from choice Viei
Kid. Price, 23/6.
In Velour Calf, 23/6 and 25/-.
Also, in Shoes, 19/6, 21/-, and 22/6.
Postage, 9d. extra.
Our Catalogue shows all the latest styles
in Gent.’s Footwear. Send for a copy.
The Rigney Shoe Co.
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE ST., and
179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Government Advertisement.
Department of the Treasury,
10th April, 1912.
TENDERS FOR THE SUPPLY OF FIVE
BANK NOTE CANCELLING MACHINES.
TENDERS will be received at the De-
partment of the Treasury, Melbourne,
until Three p.m. on Wednesday, 22nd May,
1912, for the supply and delivery—one each
at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth—of five Bank Note Cancelling
Machines.
Specifications may be obtained at the
Commonwealth Treasury, Melbourne; at the
Bank of New South Wales, Sydney, Adel-
aide and Perth; and at the Queensland
National Bank Limited, Brisbane.
Tenders must be endorsed “Tender for
Bank Note Cancelling Machines,” and ad-
dressed to the Secretary, Commonwealth
Treasury, Melbourne.
A deposit of a sum equal to 5 per cent, of
the total amount named in the tender must
accompany each tender.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
ANDREW FISHER, Treasurer.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by all Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
A. M. L. g F. CO. Ltd
(Australian Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
*. 4 FOR ♦♦.
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
Stock and Station Agents,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager.
Also at Melbourne (Si Brisbane
Makes you lookinanly
4F*
Before
fillet
1
The Strong Moustache Tells!-
Picture two men—one has a moustache, the other has none—
otherwise they are equal. Which looks older and has the stronger
personality'? The man with the moustache —of course.
If you have a clean-shaven face or a thin moustache, why not
grow a thick, handsome, manly moustache?
CAPILLARINE will do it for you. It is no “new come up,” no
experiment. It has a successful reputation of 30 years. It cannot
fail.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSIACHE TRAINER —worn at night—will
make your Moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i Established 30 Years.
The State Governor of Victoria, on Friday
last, unveiled a tablet at Station Peak, an
eminence 12 miles from Geelong. It bore
the following inscription :
Matthew Flinders, R.N., stood on this rock to
survey the Bay, May 1, 1802. National Park Asso-
ciation, 1912.
If a monument were put up to commemorate
the Ascension, the chances are that the Ascen-
sion would appear in small type at the top,
and the rest of the space would be taken up
by the name and style and pomp and date
and full particulars of Abraham Mohammed
Simpson, Mayor of Bethlehem.
Works Minister Butler (S.A.) has a flip-
pant and _ aggressive method of answering
questions in the House of Assembly, which
is very irritating to the Opposition. Dur-
ing the last short session several complaints
were made on this score, and there will be
trouble if the habit is persisted in. Some
of his replies are so casual and irrelevant
that they recall the case of the gentleman
who, being unable to pay a bill, changed
the subject by asking if the creditor’s grand-
mother was a hyena? He didn’t mean to
be nasty, but he wanted to change the sub-
ject.
GREAT MOTORING FEAT
SUCCESSFUL ATTEM PT TO MOTOR
ACROSS AUSTRALIA from west to east
PERTH TO SYDNEY.
This Transcontinental Route has been considered impractic-
able for motor cars. Messrs. Birtles and Ferguson have
made it look easy by
/ driving 2375 miles
across Australia in
four weeks. They
used a single-
cylinder 10 h.p.
car. Naturally
they selected the
best wearing and
most reliable
tyre procurable;
K'
■Yt
T)
P‘s
f£v
i(iUt)
and used
DUNLOP TYRES
- W AUSTRALIA -
-3 AU3TRALIA-
NEW 30UTM
WALE 3
PORT ACU3TA
Southern
CROii
[PERTH
SYDNEYj
VICTORIA
lh<


NO HOUSE CAN UNDERSELL
£4/10/
£4/10
£4/10/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Plain Hunt-
ing ‘Keyless WATCH. Full
Jewelled. Patent Balance.
Guaranteed 3 years free repairs.
£2/10/ -
sct. Gold Plor.il Spray BROOCH, set Pare Pearls.
£5/10/-
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set 11 Diamond, 1 Pink
and 1 Green Tourmaline.
20/-
loct. Gold Love Bird BROOCH,
Oct. Gold, 12/0.
m
af
5/6.
Solid Silver MATCH BOX, 5/6, 7/6. Gold-
mounted, 15/, £1; Solid Gold, £2/10/, £3.
SBBP
21/-
9ct. Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire.
20/.
20/.
\ M /
%
_ JL.JS ADVmBB
ftfionoTi sS MDSK
?P=3
20/-
Gent.’s Nickel, Open Face, Keyless Lever
WATCH Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted
Balance, Non-Magnetic Time Spring, Dust
and Waterproof Cases. Guaranty;d 1 yea* s
free repairs.
A. SAUNDERS.
™ SK H »
KHVHO
JBS r I PtOO
•9/e
£2/10/-
15ct. Gold PEN-
DANT and BROOCH
Combination, set
Pearls and Amethysts,
Red Stones or
Greenstones.
7/6
Wedding Ring, 7/C.
Solid Gold Hand-made
10/. 15ct. Gold, 15/,
20/, 25/. 18ct. Gold,
20/, 25/, 30/,, £2.
£2 /10/■
A. SAUNDERS
HAPPY
WEDDING
RINGS.
King-size
Card
Enclosed
in Catalog.
12/6.
9ct Solid Gold
KEEPER, loot Gold
20/, 18ct Gold 22/6.
20/-
Gold PENDANT,
Set Fine Pearls
end Turquoise.
15ct. Gold, set
Pure Diamond,
Set Ruby or
Sapphire, 22/6.
27/6.
9ct Gold Flat Buckle BRACELET,
Safety Chain attached.
Strong
s^o
'ct. Gold LINKS.
15ct. Gold, 35/.
£2/10/-
9ct. Gold “Prince of
Wales” MUFF CHAIN.
£6/10/-
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Hand-made, Very Heavy,
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires.
18ct. Gold, 6 Pure
Double Cut Dia-
monds
£3/10/-
18ct. Gold, set Pure
Double Out Dia-
monds. Rubies, and
Diamonds, £2/10/.
18et. Gold 5 fine double-
cut Diamonds. Rubies,
or Sapphires and Dia-
monds, £7/10/.
12/6.
9ct. Gold LINKS.
15ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 2/6.
A.SAUNDERS
Oct. Gold BAND.
Set Red, Green,
or Blue Stones.
£6/10/-
18ct Gold Double
row Half-hoop set 6
Diamonds, and _ 6
Rubies, Sapphires
or Olivines. All
Diamonds, £l2/10/.
£3/5/-
18ct. Gold set Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mondSj Rubies, oi
Sapphires.
32/6
9ct.
Gold
PEN-
DANT.
32/6.
Set
Amethysts
and
Pearls
20/-
9ct. Gold Band
Ring.
12/6.
9ct. Gold set Pearls
and Garnet or Peri-
dot.
£2.
18ct. Gold Band
Ring set Pure Dia-
mond.
£lO.
18ct. Gold, 3 Stone
Crossover Ring, set
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5. £2O, £25.
20/-
9et. Gold Claw set
Amethyst RING,
20/, 25/. 15ct. Gold
35/, £2. £2/10/.
9ct. Gold Curb
I 1 ad lock BANGLE,
Strong Safety
Chain attached.
7/6.
Solid Silver
SOVEREIGN PURSE,
7/6, 10/.
4'
£2/10/-
9ct. Gold Double ALBERT,
Silver, 10/6.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
hfg
£3.
9ct. Gold
PENDANT.
£3.
Set Fine
White Pearls
and Amethysts.
15ct. Gold BRACE-
LET set 3 Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds.
©
rr^.
f\
aswmos
unm
SYDNEY'S JEWELLERY PALACE.
9ct. Gold Band
BRACELET,
Richly Embossed
Floral Design,
with Safety Chain.
25/-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, J-plate,
full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, guaranteed 1 year’s
free repairs.
21/-
9-ct. Gold Pearl-set Floral Spray
BROOCH.
9-et. Gold 3-bar BROOCH, diamond,
Red or Blue Stone.
20/-
9ct. Gold and N.Z. Greenstone BROOCH.
20/-
BACIv COMB, set Parisian Diamonds.
257-
Solid Gold Pearl or Pearl and Turquoise
BROOCH.
€4/10/.
£4/10.
I/#
Jt
%
/
£4/10/-
Solid Silver Hunting Key-IVinding
Rotherham English Lever, Full Jeweled,
Compensation Balance, Dust-Proof Oases.
Higher Grades, £5, £6, £7/10/. .Guaran-
teed 4 Years’ free repairs.
JEWELLER,'
LEADING JEWELLER.
ftf>7.flQQ.RiLßis.ftlS.ftl7. GEORGE: ST. (Opposite Railway Sfalion) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
t OHSULT/# c
OPTICIAN


'.V, i %r£i k$
: JP'yZ* \V'
t®m& fob***
•<? <*£*> % 1
'JK&t
1
sS>®*
,
*\i-V.*r ■ -.1.« »£*
w§msm i
r --
JLa v
V
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8.,
M.D., etc.,
writes: “Takingan interest in all
subjects relating to food, I have
procured samples of Sanatogen
and subjected them to experi-
ment. . . .
“ In my opinion, it is the or-
ganic phosphorus which makes
Sanatogen of such value. . . .
A series of experiments proved
that Sanatogen is easih’ and com-
pletely digested. 1 have arrived
at the conclusion that Sanatogen
is a substance of the highest
nutritive value, containing as it
does a large amount of organic
phosphorus—that is, phosphorus
which is offered to the tissues in
exactly the form in which it can
be easily absorbed. It is an ex-
cellent nerve food.”
“The Medical Times”
says: “There is no doubt what-
ever that the nutrition of patients
taking Sanatogen improves won-
derfully, due, in all probability,
to its being easy of assimilation
and to the organic absorbable
phosphorus which it contains.”
A thousand times this number of Physicians endorse
SANATOGEN
The Royal Tonic Food.
Over fourteen thousand practising physicians have recorded in writing their high
opinion of Sanatogen, and many thousands more are daily prescribing it with the
most beneficial results in cases of debility, brain fag, lack of vitality, sleepless-
ness, disordered digestion, poverty of blood and various wasting diseases.
Can you ask for more convincing testimony of Sanatogen’s value than the
fact that it is thus publicly endorsed and recommended by practically the whole
medical profession ?
Among the original letters in praise of Sanatogen which are filed for public
inspection, there are many from world-famous physicians whose names stand
for the highest scientific achievements. Their advice, and the example of
distinguished men like those mentioned here, it is safe for you to follow.
Irresistible as this evidence is, the reader can only" realise the wonderful
revivifying effects of Sanatogen by taking it himself when his nervous system
and bodily strength have been undermined by overwork, worry or disease.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR FREE HEALTH BOOK.
You can buy Sanatogen at any chemists. Write to-day for a free copy of
Dr. Andrew Wilson’s health book, “The Art of Living.” Please mention this
paper, and address your postcard to:
A. WULFING & CO
G.P.O. BOX 1960,
SYDNEY.
Prof. Dr. C. A. Ewald,
of Berlin University, writes: “I
have used Sanatogen in a number
of cases, mainly of a nervous or
neurasthenic origin, and have
obtained excellent results.”
Mr. Hall Caine,
the celebrated Author and Dram-
atist, writes: “My experience
of Sanatogen has been that as a
tonic nerve food it has on more
than one occasion done me good.”
Mr. W. Rhodes,
the famous Yorkshire Cricketer,
writes : “I have given .Sanatogen
a good trial, and found it a
splendid tonic.”
Mr. A. G. Hales,
the famous War-Correspondent:
‘‘ I find my health benefits by
every tin of Sanatogen. It re-
vitalises a man, and is not a
drug. ’ ’
UNION IS STRENGTH
The Mutual Life 8 Citizens’ Assurance Co., Ltd.,
‘‘The M.L.C.”
with which is
incorporated the
business of the
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company, Limited,
ilutual Life Association of Australasia.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society, Limited.
ASSETS at 31st DECEMBER, 1911
Government Securities, Municipal Loans and Debentures and Loans to
Local Governing Bodies
Mortgages
Loans on Policies (within the Surrender Value)
Freehold Propert3 r
Interest Accrued—not yet due
Outstanding Premiums on Policies in Force
Cash
Agents’ Balances
Leasehold Property
Interest Outstanding
Other Assets
Deferred Instalments of Annual Premiums
Office Furniture and Fittings
£ s. d.
3,780,737 14 5
3,017,224 11 5
611,504 1 5
172,321 18 6
95,237 4 7
60,988 8 4
21,620 12 9
6,743 11 3
1,060 0 0
469 1 7
16,599 6 4
Nil.
Nil.
£7,784,596 10 7
Tiie Company issues the following Types of Policy.
The Ordinary Life Assurance Policy,
under which premiums are payable in one sum, or annually, half-
yearly or quarterly, in advance, direct to the Company.
The Intermediate Assurance Policy,
under which premiums are payable monthly, in advance, direct to
the Company.
The Industrial Life Assurance Policy,
under which premiums are payable weekly, in advance, and are
collected, as far as practicable, at the homes of the Assured.
The Personal Accident Insurance Policy,
with either annual or weekly premiums, which insures against dis-
ablement by accident or specified diseases.
The Combined Life and Accident Policy,
which combines, in one policy, Ordinary Life Assurance and Per-
sonal Accident Insurance.


The Army of
Constipation
Is Growing Smaller Every Day.
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS are
responsible—they not
only give relief—
they permanently
cure
Millions use
them for
Biliousness,
h
Carters
WITTLE-i
IIVER
Jphjs.
Indigestion, Sick Headache, Sallow Skin.
SMALL PILL, SMALL DOSE, SMALL PRICE.
GENUINE must heir Signature
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGARS
TRIAL
A, •
a* 4 '*
Almost everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar smoking popular in Australia.
My “ FREE CIGARS” TRIAL is this:
I’ll tend you 100 of any of the following Cigars,
and you can smoke five or six of them. If you
th n are not satisfied, send the i entainder back,
and I’ll refund your money in full, without any
charge for those you’ve smoked.
IMPERIALS ... 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 „
DIADEMAS ... 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6
INFANTAS ... 17/6
LEVUCAS 15/6 „
Remit amount when ordering, and state
color (strength) you desire.
LOUIS KAUFFMANW
54 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Illustrated descriptive booklet will be
mailed iree to any address.
pjUMAAy
IDEAL
Watermans
(Ideal)
Safety Pen
Primarily Designed for
Ladies, Travellers and
Sportsmen, but far too good
a pen to be thus restricted
in its usefulness. I
Showing how
it is sealed
when open.
YOU,
for instance, might prefer this
tvpe to the regular style of
Waterman’s Ideal. It differs,
in that it can be carried in any
position upside-down, nght-
sideup, side-ways, end-ways—-
without leaking. All the
superior features and patented
parts in the regular Waterman s
Ideal are combined in the
“ Safety ” Pen,
15/- and upwards,
Of Stationers to Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Eng.
Showing: how
it is sealed
Z 7 'Ringing for More!\
_yft/»'Lnl4l ll '-S' II
I.L.
vw
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years * success.
Aerogen Gas Machine Co
Propty., Ltd.,
NOniNAL CAPITAL, £25,000.
Present Issue, £12,500 (already allotted).
DIRECTORS:
S. W. PHILIPS,
H. ALAU CURRIE,
Y. CLOWES,
F. A. ALCOCIv,
E. H. FLACK.
Tliis Company has been formed to develop the Australian business
of the AERO GEN" GAS COMPANY, LONDON, for lighting Country
■ Houses, Stores, Hotels, Billiard' Rooms, and also for lighting small towns.
AEROGEN GAS MACHINES are admittedly the leading Petrol-
Air-Gas Machines the world over.
Nearly three hundred AEROGEN Machines have been installed in
Australia during the past two years with complete satisfaction to buyers.
AEROGEN Machines may be inspected at Hannanrs Showroom,
134 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
AEROGEN GAS MACHINE Co. Pty., Lid.
133 William Street, MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : Alcock & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: E. Rich & CO. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON : W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE: Alfred Shaw Ltd.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 0 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at Pd.
per packet. \\ hen you have sold the cards, return us our os., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. oy continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer, lie the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
fgh
F
R
E
E
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
BOND ST., SYDNEY.
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
How to Woo
and Win.
THE ART AND
ETIQUETTE OF
Love and Courtship
The Best Lover’s Guide
Ever Published.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/6; Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden s
Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4; Wrestling Instructor, with 60 Photographic
Illustrations, 1/9; Bag Punching, lOd. ; Road Map of Victoria, 1/1; Sign,
Carriage and Decorative Painting, 2/6 ; AmateurConjuringßook, easy tricks,
illustrated, 6d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in
Australia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How' to Woo and W in, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; .“'How Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 ; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edii ion, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/S; Irish
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT
Mention The Bulletin.
Jokes and Witty Savings, 9d.; Complete
Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/;
Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1 -
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLL.IS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BV ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
Eng-land—
fghfghfgh
1/li, 2/a & 4/6. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu all y
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
ActB like a'charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
il
gg
II
if
gg
If
gg
gg
M
gg
ii
gg
g g
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
• ■
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd, Otter Works, MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND.
Fencer’s Food is sold in Tins by Druggists, etc,, everywhere.
fgh
rood
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insane iently stamped.
Name and address must app a on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re cu..t ibutions volun-
tarily submitted , whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
11. Afford: In the matter of the float for
locating sunken ships you have, curiously enough,
re-invented another man’s invention. The float is
well known, but there is no law requiring ships to
carry it. . . .Sea Gull: Many thanks. Matter has been
dealt with. .. . S.S.: “Romance of a Shoe"’ is nicely
rhymed, but very soft and pappy. In other words,
there are no' bones or meat in it.... Sufferer: Cer-
tainly ; but go for treatment to a reputable doctor.
. ...P.0.5.: Fair to middling sentimental verses, but
right out of our line. .. . Sweena: Mild little mis-
sionary joke enmeshed in a tropical wilderness of
words. ... Ha. jj: Our tame stage-door haunter avers
doggedly that Nance O’Neil did play Trilby in Mel-
bourne ; but having regard to the fellow's reputation,
we are not staking money, or our immortal souls, or
anything like that on the issue Theodolite: Six
closely-written pages, beginning:—-
Surveying for Railways is surely not allwavs
The most pleasant profession to tackle,
But there’s one thing it does, it puts soles on our
shoes
And helps us life’s hardships to battle.
Now, did you mean to rhyme “battle” with “tackle,”
or was “battle” intended to rhyme with “shoes,” or
does “tackle" go with “always”? It is all the same
to us A.R.M.: Neither the bees that built in the
telegraph post nor the boys that felled it, are suffi-
ciently unusual. Bees and boys will do anything.
And the Government's capacity for owning rotten
telegraph posts is beyond all reason 8.C.M.: No,
this paper doesn't “think we should put a stop to
the surf-bathing of the present time.” It is clean
and wet and healthy, and its publicity is a guaran-
tee of “respectability.” Put a stop, 'if you like, to
Sunday-school picnics, where people drift away
shadow-wise into the lonely bush ; and to choir prac-
tices, which often lead to young people Walking
homes in parties of two by lonesome roads. But pre-
serve surf-bathing. It is one of the few things that
are almost above suspicion.... Bellerive: The tragedy
of Polly Hill's husband this time:—
AN APPALLING SECRET.
I 11 leave you a penniless pauper exclaimed a
Father to his son
If yon intend to marry Polly Hill
1 11 drive down t.o ray lawyer this very afternoon
And have an alteration in my Will
Don’t be rash dear father replied the artful son
And quietly to the coach house he did steal
Where he approached his father’s jinker with
Murder in his heart
And tampered with the nut on the left Wheel
When the veteran in his anger drove speedily
Down the road
The wheel came off and he was thrown out on his
Head
Which weaved a pall of sorrow o’er the village
Neighborhood
The noted squire was numbered with the dead
The son came in possession of his ill-fated father’s
Wealth
And settled in a far-off foreign clime
Where he was stricken down by fever and on his
Dying bed
lie revealed the appalling secret of his Crime.
. ...Tahuna: Too feeble. ... G.V.: Poem seems to-be
just a low moan in the intellectual dark.... Homo:
Don’t' feel inclined, to aim your brick at the tomb-
stone. .. .Certainly: The phrase “To be sure” may
have been barred by some Bulletin man in years
gone by, although this office has no recollection of it.
Things of equal unimportance are forgotten by the
drayload. . .W.F.H.: Don’t think so. It is the sort
of thing a medical magazine might publish in a frivo-
lous moment Unknown Lunatic: Your blanket-
like pencilled contribution, with all the words hitched
together, Was wrapped round a brick and thrown at
a street band. It paralysed the large grunting thing
which looks like an elephant’s trunk translated into
brass and folded while still red-hot... .The Socialist:
Go read it to Bruce Smith. He richly deserves it.
. . . .B. Bones': It made us yawn uproariously....
C.L.O. (M.L.) : A rough product which gallops briskly
in the beginning, but falls away rapidly, and hobbles
along a dreary old track towards a dull end....
Bert: Assuming your yellow friends have not become
naturalised Chinese, Australia claims them......
P.A.C.: One verse of your love poem made a power-
ful appeal to the Acting-Editor for gin, cloves and
eroticism, by reason of its absolutely stunning un-
usualness, viz.: —
Good-bye dear 1 I love thee.
I love thee! I love thee!
Oh ! is it wrong 1... .
“Baby” was gently handed over to , the Angel of
Death.... Dudley T.: The chief fault of your anti-
Wowser verse is its impassioned style. The ideal
Wowser-poem is care-free and gay like a healthy
young islander on the point of addressing himself to
a prime loin of Bishop. .. .A.O. : You say: “Tell me
truthfully should 1 continue writing poetry?” On
our Bible oath we rejoin, No....Yarho: Reads like
a slang dictionary ■in E flat. What is “super” all
about, anyhow?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
A.S. (Melb.): Curious picture of equine freak to
hand. Picture no good. Catch the animal and send
along, carriage paid. There’s a circus here just now.
....Cotton: As the suggestion you sent'has just ap-
peared in The Bulletin, we. are driven to the .con-
clusion : (1) That the man who previously sent it
took us in with an old jest ; (2) that you are trying
the same evil game; (3) that you stole it from the
same source. .. .Maude T.: Fair, considering your
years, but nothing extraordinary even considering
your years. ... Mills: Your pictures filled us with
emotion. We gave them to a Chinaman Sam:
Being filled with more emotion, gave yours to an-
other Chinaman. .. .F.F.G.: Pictured pun to hand.
It has gone where the bad jests g0....11. Griffiths:
No use for an old-fashioned jim-jam picture. Let
us have new jim-jams or none at all. . . .C.W.E.: A
far better artist did Mackenzie before you got on the
job.
Thus a fierce correspondent
I feel very diffident about mentioning the Aus-
tralian Jockey Club, except on my hands and knees.
Still there is one thing I must mention if only in a
whisper. Owing primarily to the privileges handed
to the club by the N. S. Wales Government, it is to-
day about the wealthiest and most exclusive institu-
tion in Australia, and although the members of the
A.J.C. may consider that huge stakes for horse races
are an adequate quid pro quo for those privileges,
the general taxpayer is not so sure of it. Particu-
larly has this been the case since it was decided to
levy municipal taxes upon the unimproved value.
The assessment of the A.J.C. property at Randwick,
on the same basis as the properties of the general tax-
payer, brought the club opt as a debtor to the Rand-
wick Council of something like £6300 per annum,
but did the club rush in to show its gratitude for
the “privileges” it had enjoyed so long? Nary.
Instead, it rushed into the courts and appealed against
the assessment, with the result that last year it was
let down at about £BOO for rates and taxes. This
year there is likely to be another appeal, unless the
club agrees to spar up to the tune of £2OOO, which
is the modest request of the local council. Mean-
while, the public, trainers, jockeys and owners of
horses which keep the club going, have to put up
with kerbless, gutterless and drainless streets and
fearfully ineffective lighting, while at the same time
paying rates and taxes on a basis over seven times as
high as the great and wealthy A.J.C. paid last year,
and over three times as high as the council demands
this year. And the announcement that the prize
money for the autumn meeting exceeded by
several thousands the largest amount yet offered
doesn’t seem to have brought the disgruntled tax-
payer to a proper frame of mind. In fact, he seems
to be more annoyed than ever.


w,.
»
m
H
l
J
I
W
m
M*
V'tii//,
-i
Wfc
ft:
?2«§S
saSSr
==t;
Ss?§
jvfahers of Jii£h Grade- Pianos
Beale Hi^H-Grade Pianos.
We make only High-Grade Pianos.
Our Pianos are manufactured in the largest and most up-to-date factories in the
British Empire.
Our Pianos are made under the personal supervision of an expert who has made
the manufacture of pianos a life-study.
Our Pianos embody patent methods of construction that ensure durability and
tonal excellence.
With expert control we combine, in our factories, the best of skilled workmanship
together with the greatest mechanical efficiency.
By our method of selling direct from factory to user we save you- all the usual
agents and middlemen’s profits.
And you have no Customs duty nor other importing charges to pay.
You are thus able to procure from us a better article at price.
If you cannot call and inspect, write for our Catalogue and Booklet of Factory
Views, which will be sent Post Free on application.
BEAL
Lt
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST, ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Ma'ckay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or .EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


SUFFERED U YEARS
WITH SORE HANDS
Itched and Burned, Skin Came Off,
Leaving Them Raw. Tried Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment. They
Soothed from the First and Cure
Has Stood Test of a Dozen Years.
"For fourteen years I suffered with my
hands. The skin came off in patches, leaving
my hands raw. They itched terribly and if
I rubbed them, water oozed out, leaving
them worse than before. My thumbs and
first fingers were the worst, the skin came
off, leaving a red, smooth surface. They
itched and burned terribly. Other parts of
my hands became affected, the skin first
drying up and peeling off. They were drawn
together and I could not grasp anything.
“I tried various ointments, but they did
me no good. I went to five different doctors,
having medicine and ointment from each, but
all to no purpose. One of the doctors told
me they would never be cured, another said
the oil was all dried up out of the skin.
Not one gave me any hope of ever being
cured. A friend thought one of my fingers
was withering away. I tried various oint-
ments recommended by friends, but they all
failed to cure. After some time, a friend told
me about the Cuticura Remedies, having tried
them with success for hands similar to mine.
I tried them, and I found that nothing had
such a soothing and cooling effect. They
acted wonderfully, and I noticed the sooth-
ing effect from the first. My hands were
completely cured by the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. It has stood the test of a dozen
years. It was wonderful, I never saw any-
thing like it. Other members of the house-
hold have benefited by it, and we are never
without a box.” (Signed) Mrs. Alice Blomley,
129, Durham St., Rochdale, Eng., Jan. 3,1911.
The first warm bath with Cuticura Soap
and gentle application of Cuticura Ointment
are usually sufficient to bring instant relief,
permit rest and sleep, and prove the first steps
in a speedy, successful and economical treat-
ment. Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world, but a liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-page book on
care of the skin and scalp, will be sent free on
application to R. Towns & Co., Dept.lQK.
Sydney, N. S. W.
ANTINEURASTHIN
is a means of administering to the brain and nerve
cells their natural food element (Lecithin) in an ab-
solutely pure form. It is not a medicine, and con-
tains neither drug nor chemical—but builds up the
nervous system by the process of natural nutrition.
It affords prompt relief in all forms of nerve
maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia, etc., and gives won-
derful results in cases of mental and physical over-
strain and exhaustion.
Antineurasthin restores the exhausted nervous
system by natural feeding. Drugs and tonics destroy
by stimulating and deadening.
Antineurasthin is prepared in tablet form, pleasant
to the taste, and convenient to carry when travelling.
A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage, by the Wholesale Agent, H. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Bris-
bane ; or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82
Pitt Street, Sydney; 9to 15 Stock Exchange Build-
ings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Build-
ings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Build-
ings, Wellesley Street East, Auckland.
A
MEN
AND .WOMEN
In middle llfecan avoid
that most disquieting
sign of age—grey hair
by using
Dr. B. Allen’s u.s.a. Mexican
Walnut Stain ( Registered)
which imparts a natural colour, tight
brown, dark brown, or black, and does
not inlure the hair, but makes It soft and
glossy. It ts a perfect, cleanly and harm-'
less stain, washable and lasting. Being
one liquid It Is most easy to apply. It
has no odour or stickiness, and does not
soll the pillow.
Solo by All Chemists.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders' Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
fgh
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
44 Castlereag'h Street, SYDNEY*
yipollinaris
“The Queen of Table Waters
Apollinaris Water has received the Grand Prix
at the Dresden Exhibition.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Establish™ 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
I'irkctors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, E«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secreta y
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POWHTPEN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Bequest
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St., Sydney.
fg
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy Horrockses*
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
Schute, Bell & Co.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont,
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre*
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Reginald Wykeham (formerly Hugh Ward’s right-
hand man) and Edward Nable have gone into man-
agement harness, and will commence a tour of Aus-
tralasia at Auckland (M.L.), on May 27, with a
musical comedy, bearing the euphonious title of
“Mr. Plaster, of Paris”—Amurrican, of course.
Other pieces will be “The Belle of Newport” and
“My Other Wife.” Miss Pressy Preston and Mr.
Max Montesole will play leads. Montesole comes
from the country where roast dog is a sign of the
times, and his reputation as a leading man with
Ellen Terry precedes him with some excitement.
“Gee”: Read with kindred feelings paragraph (B.
11/4/’l2) dealing with certain gentlefolk, to wit,
hogs and ladies, arriving late at theatrical perform-
ances. I have long hoped for the suggested remedy,
viz., when the curtain goes up, shut the doors, and
make the late arrivals wait until the interval. These
late arrivals are generally evening-dressed people—
not mere blokes or girls. The ordinary bloke and
the ordinary girl are generally waiting for the cur-
tain to go up. When the bloke does happen to be
late, he invariably enters, hat in hand, very humbly,
and crouches down to give the others a “charnce.”
Not so the other gent. The blokes believe in fair
play. The other gent, doesn’t give a continental.
Another nuisance is the late interval man, just as bad
as the other late comers. At a good performance, or
a fine leg show, the front seats are mostly occupied
by young bloods, of faultless evening clothes, and hair
immaculate, and thirsts outrageous. When the in-
terval arrives, out they go, along the front, a long
procession of slowly moving evening coats, on their
way to liquidate. While they’re outside liquidating
and smoking their fags, the curtain goes up, and
the people in the theatre prepare to get interested.
But, lo! back they come (interrupting the show, and
calling curses down upon their heads), the same long
line of monotonous, slow-moving pests. By the time
the last well-dressed hoodlum has sauntered to his
seat (and may his seat in the hereafter be a hot
one) a considerable amount of play has been unseen
by the others. But the Clarences and the Berties
and the Fweddies don’t mind. They don’t even apolo-
gise—being hogs. Should the weather be hot, one
expects to see very little, for the long line of liqui-
dates never ceases. It is not fair to the performers
either. Went to hear Margaret Cooper at Melbourne
Athenseum, and noticed this. Margaret had just
finished a song, and was on the point of a second one
at the piano, when the usual happened. Five or six
arrived very, very late. Margaret waited. The late
arrivals were not sure about their seats. The usher
rushed around. Margaret still waited. Margaret
waited some more. Then Margaret gave it up, and
sat idly toying with the piano until they were seated.
Eventually they faded into silence, and Margaret,
heaving a thankful look to where the heavens ought
to be, continued with her interrupted programme.
By all means let us be protected from the habits and
manners of the above-mentioned Theatre Hogs.
There is at least one suffragette who has the cour-
age of her convictions. Her name is Miss Mary Alice
Lloyd. At a music-hall show, at Birmingham, in
the Bull Country, she offered to enter a den of three
performing lions, and from that excitable platform
address the audience on woman’s right to the fran-
chise. Her proposal was accepted with enthusiasm.
After the trainer had gone through his performance
and subdued a vicious, meat-eating beast named
“Spit,” Miss Lloyd entered the cage and delivered her
speech in a strong voice, and without any apparent
sign of fear or nervousness. Many people who
wouldn’t have lent her half an ear, under ordinary
conditions, listened attentively, half-hoping and half-
fearing that she would be eaten, just as a Tory
audience might listen to a Socialist orator, who
spoke, accompanied by a boa constrictor, or a Belfast
crowd might applaud a Home Ruler who had a
cobra in his pocket. The most dangerous moment for
Miss Lloyd was at the close of her speech, when the
crowded audience burst into applause. The three
lions roused up, and began to applaud altogether too
much with their tails. The trainer whispered to
her, then slowly and without any signs of agitation
she walked backwards from the table and got away.
Interviewed afterwards Miss Lloyd said that, as she
progressed with her speech, she “forgot all about the
lions.” The trouble was that the lions didn’t forget
all about her.
“Stargazer”: Edward Knoblanch, author of “Kis-
met,” says he hawked his Arabian play all over the
theatrical shop, and that it was spurned from scores
of managerial doormats before O. Asche took it on.
Having seen the drama, I am not surprised. It
could appeal only to a flamboyant showman, looking
for an excuse for much pomp and great panoply.
Divested of the magnificent rags, the scenic splendor,
the incense, the donkeys, the Bagdadite sunshine,
mosques, minarets, odalesques, houris, and gorgeous
processions with which the producer has invested it,
“Kismet” would not be a circumstance. Oscar was
concerned less with the play than with the possi-
bilities.
It appears that the British censor’s objection to
Eden Phillpotts’s play, “The Secret Woman,” arose
not so much from the plot proper as from certain
lines here and there. However, the plot was not
altogether suited “virginibus puerisque,” as the
ancient Dagoes had it. It concerns a middle-aged
farmer, Anthony Redvers, who, while genuinely at-
tached, in an easy-going way, to his anything but
easy-going wife, carries on a secret love affair with
Salome, the daughter of a neighbor. The anything-
but-easy-going wife, Ann, discovers something of his
humble wickedness, and in a moment of passion she
pushes him down a sort of precipice and kills him.
Her sons make her swear not to give herself up, the
elder threatening to shoot himself if she does, and
the death of Redvers is generally regarded as an acci-
dent. Ann, however, being deeply and drearily re-
ligious, frets at this embargo, and perpetually tells
them her soul will be lost unless she is permitted to
confess and take the consequences. The identity of
Salome —the secret woman—has never been sus-
pected, and she is wildly adored by the younger
son, who finally blurts out the truth about his
father’s death, and implores her—like the angel she is
< —to go and comfort mother Ann, and persuade her
her religious views are wrong. And Salome —like the
angel she is—takes wings unto her feet and hardly
touches the ground On her way to the police station,
where she informs on her elderly rival. Then she
returns to gloat over her rival’s downfall, only to
find that Ann regards her arrest as a release from
everlasting fire! The thing is marred by an un-
necessary last act, but the intermediate character-
drawing is about as good as it can be.
One night of the last week of the panto, season, in
Melbourne, four burly Scandinavian sailor men
stood outside Her Majesty’s discussing their intention
to see the show. Their knowledge of English was
limited, but they gathered from the bills that “Sinbad
der Sailor” was appearing, and the only question at
issue was the price they should pay to see him.
“Jah, Sinbad! ” said the leader of the quartette. He
gazed earnestly at a pay box labelled 65., and talked
with his companions. One of them pointed to another
pay box marked 45., and then they decided, appar-
ently, that the leader should buy four tickets. They
put their money together, and the collector de-
manded, “Vour tickets, Sinbad,” and carefully
planked down sixteenpence in payment. The thrifty
strangers had thought to get front seats for four-
pence apiece.
Southwood, one of ex-Premier Jack Ver-
ran’s brother members in the representation
of Wallaroo (S.A.), has the character of
being a “hard case.” Jack, in retort on
Works Minister Butler, the other day, threat-
ened to “sool” his colleague on to him.
Jack said: “You will find him an uncon-
genial person. He is a trained journalist,
and served his time in New South Wales.”
Apparently Verran meant that they reared
a .very tough crowd on the verdant and
abounding plains of old Ma State. South-
wood once ran a paper in N.S.W., but has
for years been the boss of the Plain Dealer,
in Kadina, one of the three copper towns of
S.A. He pushed poet Peter Allen out of
politics the other day, but then Peter wasn’t
anything very enormous of a poet.


Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres.
Nos. 1 and 2. George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60 : 000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the
Rage of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre:
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are
the Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LIMITED.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. H. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth ; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England;
Dewar House, II ay market.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
PAI. A C E THEATRE. SYDN E Y.
Lessee: ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BERT BAILEY NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the
Powerful, Enthralling Drama in Four Acts,
BONNIE MARY.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6 and 1/-
E irly doors 6d. extra. No booking fee. Plan at Paling’s
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
JORDANE QUARTETTE, Supreme Harmonists.
HANLEY, MARGUERITE, and HANLEY,
A Continental Athletic Entertainment.
JACK STRAW, Panto. Artist and Laugh Creator.
MAMIE ELLIS, a Dazzling Soubrelte.
KARA, still Bewildering the People with his Genius.
PRICES : 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Reserves, 6d. extia
U| ER MAJESTY’S SYDNEY. .
1 1 Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE QUAKER GIRL.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 27,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON announces the Annual
Pantomime Extravaganza,
SINEAD THE SAILOR.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES : 6/-, 4-, 2/-, 1/. Children in arms not admitted.
Y M. C. A. HALL, SYDNEY.
■ ‘ Direction : The London Entertainments Syndicate.
General Manager : M. J. BLOOMFIELD.
TO-NIGHT. Programme at 8. TO-NIGHT.
THE WORLD’S FAMOUS HUMORIST.
MR. JOSEPH
BLASCHECK,
Assisted by MISS MILDRED WRIGHTON,
With her charming songs at the piano.
Popular Prices, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Paling’s.
“THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
' Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST NIGHTS OF
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE’S Picturesque Sporting
Drama,
THE HOUSE OF TEMPERLEY.
THE RING OF THE REGENCY.
THRILLING STAGE REALISM.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
AD ELPHI THU AT HE. SYDN E Y.
Direction and Management, Geokge Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
GEOKGE MARLOW’S NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
THE SINS OE SOCIETY.
The Most Prodigious, Picturesque and Expensive
Production ever Staged in Sydney.
Reserved seats, 4/-. Popular prices. Early doors extra.
-J*HE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
yy IRTH BROS., SYDNEY.
GREATEST~~SIIOW ON
EARTH.
BELMORE MARKETS, PITT STREET.
EVERY EVENING AT. 8.
WEDNESDAY SATURDAY MATINEES AT 2.45.
Doors open one hour earlier, giving ample time to
view the Majestic Menagerie of
STRANGE, WEIRD, WILD ANIMALS.
Including the £2OOO POLAR BEAR GROUP.
LIZZIE, THE BLOOD-SWEATING HIPPO., and
DUNLOP, THE INDIA-RUBBER HORSE.
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, II- Reserved chairs, 5/-
Plan at Paling’s and Hotel Australia.
\AfESTS PICTURES’SYDNEY ENTERPRISES
NEW OLYMPIA AND GLACIARIUM.
WEST'S—BEST OF ALL,
introducing
MADAME SARAH BERNHARDT
also
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
* Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d.. 6d.. la.
The imperial roller rink,
Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS
BEST in HOLLER SKATING.
JAMES C. BENDWELL,
_ General Manager.
RICKABDS’ TIVOLI T~HEATRE.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Tiie World-Famous Hebrew
Character Impersonators.
TINY ARNOLD, The Miniature Marie Lloyd.
RINALDO, the Wandering Violinist.
THE KEELKY BROTHERS, Champion Ball Punchers.
IRVING S\YLES, King of Colored Comedians.
FRED POPLAR, KITTY WAGER,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OJ’KBA HOUSE, MELISO U K N E.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
Another of the World's Greatest Novelties. The Origi
nator of all Trick-phi ving Piano Acts.
MR. WILL H. FOX.
A Great and Unique Attraction, MONE MINE.
Song and Story and English Step Dancing,
BLAKE & GREMBY.
RONALD GEORGE. BURNETT. C. J. JOHNSON.
CHARMING LADY ATHLETES.
And a Great Company of Brilliant Artistes.
Plan at Allan’s. ~jy PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
yHEATBE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ASCHE —LILY BRAYTON.
“A TRIUMPH OF TRIUMPHS.”
THE GREAT ORIENTAL DRAMATIC SPECTACLE,
KIBME T.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Seats, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
It IN CESS’S TH EAT RE, M ELKO URN IC.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
THE LATEST AND MOST ASTONISHING ENGLISH
SUCCESS, WITH EVERY REMARKABLE INCIDENT
TAKEN FROM REAL LIFE.
THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON
Prices as Usual.
Plan at Pianola.
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vic.
' EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, Together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. Gd. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers— Amalgamated Pictures Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
m\
Animated Pictures in Actual Natural Colors.
SPECIAL NOTE.—lvinemacolor films are not hand-
colored films ; they are actual photographs of Nature,
and the colors are imprinted in the pictures at the
time of photographing. PRICES: 3s. to fid.
|_| Bit MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE'
EVERY EVENING.
J 0. WILLIAMSON'S NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in the most fascinating of the Musical Comedy
“Girl" Series.
THE GIRL IN THli TRAIN.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Australian and new Zealand tour
of
MARGARET COOPER,
THE FAMOUS ENTERTAINER,
in her
DELIGHTFUL SONGS AT THE PIANO.
MARGARET COOPER has just concluded a brilliantly
successful three weeks’ season in Melb< urrie. Every
performance was tracked to the doors.
ADELAIDE:
Commences SATURDAY, MAY 4, THEATRE ROYAL.
BROKEN HILL:
Commences MAY 20.
SYDNEY:
Commences JUNE 8, PALACE THEATRE.
NEW ZEALAND TOUR commences WELLINGTON
OPERA HOUSE, JULY 10.
Tour under Sole Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
SATURDAY, APRIL 27.
Grand Revival of the Romantic Military Drama,
TOMMY ATKIN S,
With all its Original Spectacular Effects.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —35., 2s. and Is.
Olympia. olympia.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
\A#E S T'S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST BEST' S PIC 1 QRES, THE best
of" ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
everv week. Prices —fid. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
NOTICE to THEATRICAL MANAGERS,
COROWA SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL TO LET for
NEXT SHOW WEEK, 26th AUGUST to
31st AUGUST (both dates inclusive), BY TENDER
CONDITIONS.
1. The highest tender to be accepted.
2. The amount tendered to accompany each tender.
3. The amount of the successful tender to become at
once the property of the institution.
4. Tenders to be opened on May 31, 1912, and ten-
derers notified.
W. H. EDMONDSON, Solicitor,
Honorary Secretary Corowa School of Arts.
L
J
ill
The “Sagar”
Chain Cutter
and Hollow
Chisel
Mortiser.
This Machine does its
work at a Speed, Accuracy
and Finish quite beyond the
conception of those who are
only familiar with the other
type of Mortising Machines.
The endless Chain Cutter runs at the high speed of 900
feet per minute, and presents between 30,000 and 40,000
cutting points per minute; so that, whilst the work is
done very rapidly, each point has relatively little to do, and,
consequently, there is but a small strain on the Chain
Cutter.
The smallest mortises can be made with the same exact'
ness and neatness as the larger ones, and large mortises
almost as quickly as small ones.
To deal here with the multitude of exclusive features
embodied in this machine would be impossible.
Joinery Works, Furniture Manufacturers, Cabinet
Makers, Carriage Builders, Wheelwrights, and anyone inter-
ested in rapid mortising in hard or soft wood should secure
special Catalogue dealing with the above Machines, which
is stocked, along with a complete line of SAGAR
MACHINES, by
lie rs oils)
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
554-66 & 582-88 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
THE TIME TO ORDER
IS NOW
IN YOUR INTEREST
we ask you to write us now
re your proposed soda foun-
tain for next summer.
For if you delay ordering
until the rush of the new
season begins you will per-
haps have to wait before a
suitable machine can be
erected.
YOU NEED NOT TAKE
DELIVERY UNTIQ YOU
REQUIRE IT.
The man who looks ahead
is wise, but he that gets
ahead of time is wiser still.
We import or manufac-
ture as the case- demands,
for in every instance we
supply a plant exactly suit-
able to the requirements of
your business, and at 20 per
cent, less cost than small
jobbers.
WRITE AT ONCE FOR
PRICES AND PARTICU-
LARS OF OUR EASY
TERMS.
Profit-making outfits fo r
Hotels, Chemists, Refresh-
ment Rooms, from
£2 5.
To get the true fruit flavors use
our highly concentrated True
Fruit Juices.
TRUE FRUIT JUICES, in large or
small parcels.
More Customers at Less Cost.
The Latest American Automatic
Carbonators of Drawn Steel
Sheet Tin-Lined, make
crisp soda-water at td
per gallon without any
attention from operate r
hfg
h
We send our experi=
enced man to erect
without extra cost.
>»
“QUEEN.
With horizontal porcelain jars, onyx trimmings, latest improvements.
Made in 6,8, 10, 12, 14 to 20 tap sizes.
NELSON CARBONATING CO., LTD.,
167 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 13s„ £l5 15s. &£l7 17a.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.. 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS on most liberal terms .
on City and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
flank uf north Queensland
LIMIT ED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: A QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
flank of fleui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock . . . . . . £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . .. . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,00,0
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE,
Australian Bank of Bommeree
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarvvood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . • • • • 413,588 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. : JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F.
LORD, Esq. ; GEO. EDW. BUNNING, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord
BY
D eutscher
L/loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt. Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
Colored POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fgh
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 11.
SUEWIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
June 5.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
Julv 3.
RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £24 3 (J
Londoi 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. •• 110 u
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from io u u
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
MAGNIFICENT MODERN STEAMSHIPS,
s. “COOMA, s.s. “BOMBALA,” B.S. “PEREGRINE.’
MELBOURNE-QUEENSLAND SERVICE.
These Steamers run to the following itinerary
Melbourne. .
Sydney
Sydney
Brisbane. ..
Brisbane. . .
Keppel Bay
Mackay
Townsville
depart Wednesday
arrive Friday
depart Saturday
arrive Monday
depart Tuesday
arrive and depart Wednesday
arrive and depart Thursday
uwuo.iii. arrive Friday
CAIRNS (Passengers and Cargo) tranship to T.S.S.
MOURILYAN (1350 tons), 16 knots, which
steamer leaves every Saturday from lownsville
for Cairns and Port Douglas, and passes through
Hinchinbrook Channel on both up and down
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND WEST AUSTRALIA
SERVICE.
Large Passenger and Cargo Steamers leave Sydney
and Melbourne regularly each month for Adelaide,
Albany and Fremantle, transhipping for other S.i..
Untl 'fOR FARES, TIMETABLES AND ALL
PARTICULARS, APPLY—
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, LIMITED.
Branches all Ports.
Cruises to the
South Seas.
Interesting tours to Volcanic and Coral Islands
of the Pacific.
Calm Seas and splendid Scenery ; a complete
change, affording unrivalled opportunities of view-
ing the native inhabitants in complete safety in
their semi-barbarous state.
Cruises can be taken, occupying from 22 days
upwards, visiting from two to 120 ports or
Islands.
Saloon Fares from under 10s. per day upwards.
Send for our Illustrated Pamphlet.
fgh
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established
1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,000,000
£2,025,000
£3,000,000
£8,025,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon’ Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office-Gcorgc St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 335 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11 Tasmania 2, New Zealand 57,
Fiii 3 Panua 2 London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United
Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South
America Honolulu, and the AVest Indies.
Liable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
£4,500,000
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. . • Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY,
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhby.
London Office: IS Bircliin-Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Capital Paid-up .. •• ..£532,984 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 159,987 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
£769.471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
\jrcii. man.. jiuuu.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The C° lonia l ID utua l Life
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South W'ales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean Mouse, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
QREME LA FRANCE
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
fg
Wholesale :
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and givingToneand
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/= Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL., LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS
The Choicest Manufactured.
Ky
Made in England.
Cool and Satisfying.
Fragrant and Pleasing
Cedar Cabinets, con-
taining go Cigars, 22\6
Post Free.
A sample lot of g
Cigars, 2/6 Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons),
May 11 and June 8.
Wireless Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores Norfli fco Oairn
S.S. Wollowra, April 27.
S.S. Tyrian, May -i.
S.S. Innamincka, May 11.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-St..te Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can br
ascertained on application at the Company’s Olliee.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAL! AN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALL-KED” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU.,
thence by Rail to any part of;
CANADA or UNITED STATES..
The Best Route to Europe
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F. — H. —5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. DORSET.
11,000 Tons. W. L. PRENTICE, Commander.
Will be despatched from: —
BRISBA NE about APRIL 231 M ELBOURNE about MAY 7
SYDNEY about MAY 3 I ADELAIDE about MAY 14
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised
of two-, four-, and eight-berth cabins, situated on
the main deck, amidships, with dining-room on the
upper deck. Well lighted and ventilated cabins and
spacious decks. Third-class passengers supplied with
fresh provisions from Cool Chamber throughout the
voyage. Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric
Light throughout. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares £4O. .. £l3 135., £l5 155., £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed by the
*T.S.S. Wiltshire, leaving Sydney about May 28.
T.S.S. Ayrshire, leaving Sydney about June 25.
*Carrv Saloon passengers only. Fitted with wireless.
For further information apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
V
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“lllimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE
WRITING (in ink)
by using your own
Letter Paper,
Invoices, &c.,
with this
Book.
*« S C / 200
’an ETI
. ftoo*
&
i; s
You simply insert
your writing: paper in
the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by the
act of writing: a perfect letter and a perfect, copv
(which remains in the hook). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge to your communication.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which pro-
duces this result free, if stamped addressed envelope
sent, from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford Road,
Leicester, Englana.
One complete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin.
x Bin. letters, for 3/9 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
(Money Order, not P.O.’s.)
WHOLESALE ACENTS WANTED.
THE Australian Magazine—THE DONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.


HO
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
hfg
Uhe HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
IN view of your visit
to LONDON, obtain
and retain the Tariff
Booklet of the HOTEL
CECIL.
It is free for the ask-
ing, and presents by il-
lustration and description
an excellent idea of the
Hotel’s luxurious interior,
its imposing exterior,
and contains much useful
information concerning
the Metropolis, places of
interest, cab fares, etc.
It is of handy size for the
pocket, and gives the
Cecil’s Fixed Tariff Charges
whereby you can gauge to a
shilling beforehand the cost
of a brief or prolonged visit.
It will, in fact, enable you
to make a preliminary ac-
quaintance with
London’s Greatest Hotel.
Cablegrams—CECELlA,
LONDON.
evreim-stt
NERVE AND BRAIN
TABLETS
Create new Nerve Force, Pure Blood,
Healthy and Normal Action of all the
Vital Functions.
Evren Nerve and Brain
Tablets
are especially beneficial in restoring to
perfect Health and Vigor those who
are weak and debilitated from either
Disease, Worry or Over-
work.
They gently tone up the system, and
are suitable alike for both sexes,
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price 2/- per Box.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
Rowland’s
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies. Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect o'
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. G dden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND'S.
67, Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours.
E»cli Capsule bears the name
QUEENSLAND.
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
oners a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks!
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U. 3. A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
Clement-Bayard
Motor Cars.
The CLEMENT-BAYARD
CAR is the Ideal Car for the
Man on the Land.
Lighter, yet stronger than
others.
ABSOLUTELY SIMPLE.
Conspicuously showing the
best wear-resisting materials.
PRE-EMINENTLY RELIABLE.
1912 MODELS.
... - ii
.
*iiW ipWpilP^pnP
7 H.P. 2 CYLINDER CAR.
Special High Clearance for Australian Conditions and Roads. Absolutely Automatic ; nothing to do but Steer.
7 H.P., 2 Cylinder, Single-Seated Body, £225. 10-15 H.P., 4 Cylinder, Single-Seated, Torpedo Body, £365.
10 15 H.P., 4 Cylinder, Touring Body, with high front doors, £4OC.
12-18 H.P., 4 Cylinder, Touring Body, £475. 15 H.P., 6 Cylinder, Touring Body, £575.
ALL IN STOCK.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
GARAGE—6 & 8 UNDERWOOD STREET, off 37 Pitt Street.
v: j
s-*
XT
£
mm
□
»M«m«miMiMiMMMt>Hi»itMMt>i>«M«MM*»mMM»iiMMMiMM*»»t*H«M«MiMi>MMtH>HmM«M*»»M>»t>W*«MMMMm>M»MHHMm«H^(
THE
Alcock Bijou Billiard Tabic
is constructed essentially for home use, and affords life-
time enjoyment. Both you and your friends derive
constant pleasure from it, besides giving an added induce-
ment to stay home, which you will find hard to resist.
No need then to go out for your game of Billiards. Think
how much better this is. Alcock’s “Bijou” is the recog-
nised “Home” Billiard Table, and is favored so highly
because of its superior construction and perfect playing
qualities. Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth.
397 George St., Sydney.
114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Lower Cuba St.. Wellington.
[l
■ •/ 8
. V-v V-.
. ■ ■
• ■. ■
■ ■
(Mebuatw
iSS
i
m
ism
BREWED,. FROM
MALT.ED BARIEV
»OWER BRIDGE R?
.
Slil
8m
CHAMPIO
"risry
w
'IIE Australian Magazine—THE JLONK
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
/ A safe and reliable remedyV
/for treating diseases of ALL
J mucous membranes, such as
■ V I dischargesfromthenose,throat
I f I stomach and urinary organs.
1 AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself f .
with each bottle |
\or mailed on request.
Evans Chemical
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
TAILOR-MADE
COSTUMES
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our T weeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street.
SYDNEY.
as
\HFIVHT rEJLD\HG
Wo Holder sY\o\M \>t >n\\JnovxX, Vc.
sewX- 're.Que.s'o.
#
r
i* .» mJ ii .* <i»i rf>v>iir&r i ; ■•<> *ii ii ;ic*«j<
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powera.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
BSHeff
15“ 17 Market Street, Sydney


Missing Friends.
OINNOTT, JAMES. Charlie dead. Write
sister, E. WILSONCROFT, 30 Clare-
mont Avenue, Malvern, Victoria.
WILLIAM SHIELDS. Important.
WILL WILLIAM SHIELDS, or anyone
knowing the whereabouts of William
Shields, who left home at Dargalong. near
Murchison (Victoria), about 1879-80. last
heard of by letter from Wyalong Goldfield,
N.S.W., about 1890-91, communicate imme-
diately with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COY. LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
ANTED.—If FRANK HAYES, of Parmah, Bengal,
will communicate with his brother GEORGE, at
Mornington Hall, Cowes, Isle Wight, England, he
will hear something to his advantage.
ALLEN, TED (otherwise known as Andrew Baillie),
shearer, or anyone acquainted with his where-
abouts, please communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
Queen Street,
Melbourne.
LABOR PAPERS
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital ... £250,000
Paid-up Capital £60,000
Issue of Debentures.
This Company, formed for the purpose of publish-
ing one or more Union-controlled Labor Daily News-
papers, has decided to afford all Labor sympathisers
an opportunity of taking up Debentures to assist in
starting the first Daily, which is to be published in
Sydney.
In addition to the capital actually paid up (over
£60,000), further share capital to a considerable
amount is promised within the next few months by
the binding decisions of Trade Unions.
A central site has been purchased at 315 to 321
Pitt Street, Sydney, and a commodious building is
being erected thereon. When completed the building
will return a large rental, and in addition will fur-
nish ample space for the newspaper.
The Debentures will be issued for sums of £1
or multiples of £l, bearing interest at the rate of
4 per cent, per annum, and are redeemable on June
1, 1922. The Debentures are transferable. The
Company engages that the total amount of the De-
benture issue shall not at any one time exceed the
actual amount of the then paid-up capital of the
Company.
Cheques (including exchange), money orders, etc.,
must be made payable only to “Labor Papers
Limited.”
J. C. WATSON,
Chairman of Directors.
129 Bathurst Street,
Sydney, April 15, 1912.
m
«
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 101-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.] [5
h
GOOD
CHEAP
LIGHT
is air-gas light. Used
extensively for home-
steads, country houses,
hotels, churches, town
lighting.
A beautiful soft
white light at 2d.
per hour for 500
C.P. Cheapest known.
You will get better
light at minimum
cost with the Atmos-
lite Patent Automatic
Machine. Write for
literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St.. Melbourne-^
Fight against
Consumption
BY TAKING
ANCIER@MULSION
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion is both healing and strengthening. It
not only soothes and heals the throat and lungs, but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion and builds up strength. For upwards
of twenty years it has been prescribed by the medical profession
and used in hospitals and sanatoria for consumption. Angier’s
Emulsion is the standard approved remedy for coughs,
bronchitis, consumption and all lung affections.
Send for free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMCIAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
I
m
PIKE BROTHERS LTD
RARE RUGS.
Delightful productions that are pleasing
to the eye. Warm and comfortable, they
come as a revelation to all Travellers.
THE “UNEEDA”
TRAVELLING RUC.
fgh
Many rich and original patterns, varying from the most delicate tones
to rich, deep Oriental designs.
21/-
Please send for Large Illustrated Catalogue.
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd.
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
The General Strike Policy.
Prime Minister Fisher, taking a hand in
the Queensland State elections, has confined
himself mostly, so far, to three aspects of
the General Strike question, which is the
question that overshadows all others just
now. One is the alleged utter disagreeable-
ness and petty tyranny of tramway mana-
ger Badger, who made the great, silly, orig-
inal fuss about the wearing of union badges.
The disagreeableness of Badger may be re-
garded as a foregone conclusion, but then
the General Strike hasn’t made him a whit
less disagreeable. Another point is that Den-
ham’s demand fpr troops was quite unneces-
sary. The event showed that it was. But
that is ancient history. And the Prime
Minister’s third point is the alleged general
orderliness and good behavior of the strikers,
who, according to their own leader, had so
overawed the city that no one could buy a
loaf without their permission. But all these
matters are quite apart from the material
issue. What the public wauts to know is
whether Andrew Fisher approves of the
General Strike policy, and whether it is
going to be in future a regular weapon in
the party’s armory. The State Labor party
defends it, and Fisher, who has needlessly
associated himself with the State Labor
party, seems to give no definite affirmative
or negative. Now the General Strike is a
policy under which, supposing Peake, of
S.A., had a purely personal grievance against
Murray, of Victoria, and couldn’t get satis-
faction from Murray, and Fisher wouldn’t
help to remedy his grievance, then Peake
would be considered justified in flogging
Fisher’s son, or tearing the hair off the head
of his daughter, in the hope that he might
thereby bring pressure to bear on Fisher
and make him lend a helping hand. That
may be an extreme example, but it embodies
the whole principle. The idea is to make
the innocent suffer for the guilty. Under
the General Strike method it pays just about
as well to be the worst kind of emnloyer as
the best, for the employer is liable to get
there all the same. A clear statement of
Fisher’s views on the matter would remove
a lot of doubts as to the future, and that
clear statement isn’t forthcoming. Nothing
is forthcoming except evasiveness. The old
woe is dead, and isn’t worth talking about,
but the public has a right to ask if other
General Strikes—perhaps larger ones —are
contemplated, and, if so, whether votes given
for Fisher and his friends will help to bring
them about, or help to prevent them? It
was through no fault of the Brisbane com-
mittee that the very small Badger trouble
didn’t culminate in a general closing up of
the industries of Australia. With better
luck, the next effort may produce that result.
Considering that possibility the community
has a right to know the attitude of its
public men towards that next effort.
“Politicus”: Re Dean Marriott’s desire to
down Party Government (Bulletin, April
11). This is how that venerable fraud of an
institution pans out just now in Banana-
land. Labor and anti-Labor tear each other
with much cordiality, but unite on the one
great principle of keeping out of public life
any man of independent opinions. The
Democratic voter is placed in this position
on election day. He can, on the one hand,
vote for the State Labor party, which has
no financial policy at all; which is pledged
to a platform condemning immigration, and
which is so infatuated with the late strike
folly that it is actually running for Parlia-
ment a large number of members of the late
Strike Committee. On the other hand, the
above-mentioned Democrat has the option of
voting for Denham and co., who are running
the country into a financial abyss, who are
backed by all the old Tory fossils in Banana-
land, and who would like to hamstring
Unionism and strangle Socialistic develop-
ment in its cradle. Here in Brisbane you
have the delightful choice of being allowed
to vote Straight Tory or support a General
Strike lunatic who gets the Labor endorse-
ment. For the intermediate man who says,
“A plague o’ both your houses! I am
neither a Tory reactionary nor a revolution-
ary Bedlamite” —there is no room at all.
The party system is a curse to the honest,
politician and a standing menace to all pub-
lic integrity.
DENMAN,
AUSERALIA'S
GOVERNOR
GENERAL .
Of course, candidates in Queensland don’t
openly bribe electors, but they come devilish
near to it, all the same. Says the Too-
woomba Chronicle : “Mr. Roberts touched
on the police force, and foreshadowed im-
portant action on the part of the Govern-
ment in making the Queensland police force
the best paid in Australia.”
Died a few days ago in Melbourne a well-
known Darling Downs squatter—Gerard
±t. Gore, of Yandilla. Gore is credited in
the D.D. district with having introduced
the prickly pear into Queensland many years
ago. It was grown as a garden plant and
vegetable curio at Yandilla station, and the
gardener had particular instructions to
water it carefully, and see the precious
nursling took no harm. The story goes
that one understrapper was sacked for neg-
lecting the treasure, but the pear survived,
and to-day rears its bristling crest over hun-
dreds of thousands of Queensland’s finest
acres, and bids fair to compete with the Jap
for the future possession of the country—
unless somebody wakes up! Yandilla was
sold last year.
“Matrix” : The Bananaland Government
has at last got down to action in regard to
the far-spread eyesight trouble in the West.
Recently, Dr. Eleanor Bourne was sent out
to the backblocks to make a few inquiries as
to the facts, and she hurried back with a re-
port that makes serious reading. Among
other things, she says that 11* per cent.,
probably, of the western boys will be unable
to handle a rifle efficiently when they grow
up. She recommends the appointment of an
eye specialist for three years’ service amongst
the children of the dust country, and the
declaration of trachoma as a notifiable dis-
ease. The pity is that something like that
wasn’t done long ago.
The Padlock.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Some time ago the padlock of a door of the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre was found to have been broken.
The keys of the tornb of Christ are in the hands of a
Mussulman family, in which the guardianship has
descended for generations, but the documents estab-
lishing the family’s rights to hold the keys say no-
thing about the padlock. There was no precedent to
go upon, and the authorities were much embarrassed
to know to whom to confide the mending of the lock.
The choice lay between the Catholics, the Orthodox
priests, the Armenians, the Melchites, the Copts and
the Abyssinians. All Jerusalem prepared for riots.
The councillors and the Governor of Jerusalem held a
meeting, and decided to replace the padlock tempor-
arily by a strong cordon of troops and police. They
then entrusted the president of the municipality with
the mission of having the new lock made, and de-
creed that the president should himself solemnly at-
tach the new padlock. —News item.
In Salem city was a sound of riot
Of wild upheaval and of fierce disquiet,
For on the Church of Christ —oh, strange the token !
The padlock old some daring hand had broken,
And quarrel grievous (no one there could end it)
Arose about the lock and who should mend it;
Until, at last, the council, wisely guided,
In conclave met, and prudently decided
That cops and troops should guard the temple duly
Until the priceless lock was doctored truly,
Whereon the President, exalted mortal,
Should fix again the padlock on the portal.
Ah ! Not alone in Salem’s ancient city
The Church is barred —(Oh, sin and grievous
Pity!)
With cunning chain and fastening tightly holden
(Although the bands be silvern some and golden) :
In ev’ry land on earth where Christians meet
The wand’ring waif who tramps the weary street
Looks on amazed at the shrine secure
Against the rush of God Almighty’s poor,
And sees in wonderment the Proud and Great
Put up new padlocks on the Church’s Gate !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 20, 1912.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The Ambulance sports to-day came as a
relief after a week of incessant electioneer-
ing. His Ex. and Mrs. Ex. attended and
gazed with polite interest at the 100yds. hop,
step and leap, and other gyrations of the
local athlete. Neither Prime Minister Fisher
nor Premier Denham entered for the obstacle
race, although both of them have had plenty
of practice lately.
Yesterday, the National Council of Wim-
men gave a “coin tea” at the residence of
Mrs. D. Denham. A couple of hundred of
the genteeler sex attended and dropped their
spare cash into a porridge plate as the pre-
liminary to an intellectual afternoon at cro-
quet, bean-guessing and such like. The Gov-
ernment House lady, Mrs. Barlow and Mrs.
Barnes were detected amongst the crowd.
Mrs. Denham wore grey, and the daughters,
who, by the way, are both capable hostesses,
and never forget a face, appeared in white
frocks and floral hats.
On Monday, George Kirk, a pillar of the
N.S.W. Bank in Goondiwindi, pressed
upon Mabel Ilindmarsh, a daughter of the
late James Hindmarsh, of Inverell, the little
gold band that makes or breaks so many
lives. She couldn’t retreat fast enough to
avoid it, so the matter was fixed up. The
groom’s male parent was the late George
Kirk, of Gulnarber Station, and for many
years an official of the Q.T.C. Son George
is a good hand with horses, and knows one
end of a gun from the other. White satin
and the usual veil covered the bride, and the
bridesmaids —Misses Ruth Tilston and Lallie
Kirk—were draped in blue. Spencer Tilston,
of Roma, gave George a helping hand. The
moon hangs out at Melbourne.
Brisbane society is waiting earnestly to
see the Massareene pair, who are to visit
Mrs. William Collin, at Beaudesert, for the
races and show. It is rumored that Dicky
Nevill is also to be of the party.
Lady Verney left for N.S.W. en route to
England this week, after duly attending to
the hitching of one of her nieces. The other
she bore away with her to the land where
Freetrade hears “Rat one” shouted in its
eating houses.
Mrs. E. B. Warelmm and daughter, who
have been visiting Sydney, Melbourne, Adel-
aide and Perth, will return to this city early
in May. Motor-car trips round the various
ports of call enlivened the pilgrimage.
The Brisbane Liedertafel has secured con-
ductor Leonard Francis, under whose baton
the Cambrian Choir collared the champion-
ship of Australia. Perchance, the Lieder-
tafel will now sing in tune—a slight matter
which has escaped its notice lately.
The Horticultural Society provided its
largest cabbage and furnished its most abnor-
mal dahlia last Tuesday, and gravely com-
peted for medals and other tangible rewards.
Subsequently, Mr. Bick, with the aid of a
magic-lantern, entertained the horticultur-
ists with an account of a trip to the islands
in Torres Strait.
The William Anderson co. moves on to
Toowoomba after a paying season here.
Little Mary Anderson, offspring of William
and Eugenie Duggan Anderson, did the
dying child act in “East. Lynne,” while the
gallery wept bitterly and asked if life was a
matter that called for any further considera-
tion. It was Mary’s first appearance on the
boards. She is a promising bud, but it is a
pity she didn’t commence in some mirthful
character. The dying Willie is a moanful
job for any child.
The District Nurses’ Home, being in the
usual poverty-stricken state, the usual euchre
party eventuated to-night, in the usual way,
and was attended by the usual charitable
victims.
Last week one Thomas Elliot, of Sydney,
married Beatrice Gilbert, eldest daughter of
one of our best-known warehousemen. The
bride was apparelled in choice raiment, and
was supported by two sisters of the groom.
A pair of infantile maids of honor staggered
along under the weight of the bridal train.
A brother of the groom and Mr. 0. Shaw
urged the male principal to take a cheerful
view of things and try to be worthy of his
partner. Before permanently adorning your
city, the new partners will sojourn at Too-
woomba, Warwick and Stanthorpe.
Yours faithfully,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The R.C. Church in Bananaland is in a
strange position. The ecclesiastical au-
thorities have bitterly condemned the Gen-
eral Strike, and denounced that outbreak as
the forerunner of Continental Socialism,
which is anathema. On the other hand,
Bishop Duhig, the churchman militant, has
quarrelled openly with the Government over
the Bible in State schools business, and
promised the Administration a lively time
on the matter. So what with damning the
Government and damning the Labor Social-
ists, the Church has hardly a serviceable
damn left.
This is how Strike-leader Coyne gets home
on his comrades: “Such a step as the calling
out of tens of thousands of workers could
not have been possible in Brisbane, but for
men like Dave Bowman.” This same genius
boasted at Toowoomba that he had applied
to Fisher for military assistance before
Denham did.


ftgspip
J SxXW:
.
'“ : .v : > : X
Mislpl
§f§lil
■
o< *--, .. < . . ,» ",
m'' ■ -
“Master s
Favorite”
fil M
.4
MB*
:
rm
a
Itplllili
' -■ :/ ;vi*p
M
*
-
RSMHH I i i y 1
■fIBHBInHfIfIMBBBSfIBBfIfIBBBHBBBfIfIBSfIi
->-i
■■«■■■■■■■■P—
. ,;...•'>
r j
■
18 SIS SB 11 BBS
■ ■
m m
IiHUSS
v . ■ ~
Ei. .... i
mu
■lll
.
i 11
E>
.
—»
t: . '
M 11
■■p
.
;•.-
x'v-' : ••
m
Wsmm fMtvmimm
•k. '
:• x.
■HSi
*
s?a RKLinc
• zxxx ale •
The Wine of the Barley.
FOR countless generations Ale has been a favorite beverage.
It was drunk in Egypt 3000 years before the Christian
era; it was known and appreciated by the ancient Gauls;
it was the favorite liquor of the Anglo-Saxons and Danes, and
is still the premier drink of the most alert and active peoples of
the world. It was the drink of the lusty and strong, the “doers”
in the history of the past.
Cascade Ale is akin to the ale of old England, for it is rich
in the qualities that promote health and strength. That its merits
are appreciated by those most competent to judge is proved by
the rapidly-grov/ing sales in every part of the Commonwealth.
Sold at all first-class hotels and stores.
Cascade Ale.


■
m
rj
>l®
EE
mu.
Mm
Ctf
Viyella
99
(Reed)
The Ideal Day and Night
Wear for Man, Woman
and Child.
Because it does not shrink.
Because it is the most durable of washing fabrics.
Because it is unique in make and reputation; there is no other
cloth “just the same.”
Because it is the softest, and can he worn against the most sensitive
skin.
Because it is obtainable in different weights, suitable for different
climates.
Because it has borne the test of years.
The “ Viyella” label is a guarantee of the good
qualities of the material. Always ask to see it.
66
To be obtained from the leading drapers, or name of
nearest sent on application, by I. and R. MORLEY,
56 Market St., Sydney ; 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Viyella
99
(Regd.)
y
y."
.-vvv.*; ■ \ vWr;. •
:v..V* : •?{:•:/}/ v. : * •
S'..;
%
1
Unequalled Bangle Value
Closl6—lsct. Gold Bangle, £6/10/-; 9ct.
80/-. Sure to please, both in quality and
value.
Bfc.
ClO5l9 —Another Splendid Bangle, 15ct.
Gold, 90/-; 9ct., 57/6.
'JTIIESE FINE BANGLES are all double
ilie weight of those usually sold. They
are strong and serviceable, and, being wax-
filled, do not dent, no matter how hard the
usage. Like all STEWART DAWSON
Goods they challenge the most searching
comparison.
C10520 —An Attractive 15ct. Gold Bangle,
priced low at 70/-; 9ct., 45/-
9ct. Gold Golf Bangles. Four sizes.
12/-, 15/-, 18/-, 21/- each.
ClO5l7 —15ct. Gold Bangle, priced 110/-; in
9ct. Gold, 70/-
0
G)
ClO5l8 —Another instance of the saving
alwajrs to be experienced at the Treasure
House —15ct. Gold, 100/-; 9ct. Gold, 62/-
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
(AUSTRALIA) uooireo.
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE.
“ THE TREASURE HOUSE,”
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET,
- * 9
SYDNEY.


TRY IT lIM YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE ICING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD.," LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
fg
N THE WORKSHOPS
of the world, and wherever the written word
i= necessary and recorded, the ONOTO I BN
I is indispensible. It is always ready to write,
fills itself in a flash from any ink supply— and cannot leak.
Ask your Stationer to show you the ONOTO self-
filling safety Pen. Made in Britain by British labour.
Onoto
Self-Filling • * am
Safety Fountain Jt Via
Of all stationers, jewellers, etc. Price 1 2/* and upwards. |
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos.
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 339, Bunhill Row E.C., or the
Australasian Representatives, Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—For those who require a larger pen with a very flexible nlfc
a special model—the new <5, has been put on the market It is exceptional
value for the money. Try this new Gat your stationers
Also ask him for Onoto Ink—the best foi fountain and other pens.
m.
a
3):
o
0
Vv
m
/ *
M
<T>
(D
m
5>J
K
«
CASTRATION
EASY 1
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCUIATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffie'd Steel will give perfect Ol-
faction for many years. U»F~I=ASY TO USE.
hfg
45[
Post Free Anywhere.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
the permanent
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company s Method.
ample security and efficient management assured.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
14
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
The Choice of Up-to-date Cinematographers!
5®
THE
Silent Empire!
If you’re looking for best results you’ll
get them from THE SILENT EMPIRE.
It is wonderfully silent —absolutely fire-
proof —steady and flickerless.
Has improved Maltese Cross, cut out of
solid cast steel, and running in oil bath.
The Film-trap is the simplest and most
effective yet made.
Has all-steel Sprockets —rigid iron stand
—automatic slide feed and automatic cut off.
Write or call for specifications.—The
Silent Empire is open to the closest examina-
tion.
JERDAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 George Street
/ Facing \
' Royal Hotel *»
Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joki Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
hfg
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin—thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, norses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price I /=■,
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
most
vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for C3’-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch- .
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited, it
creates great amusement for young and old, It is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of tne
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/=
m
h
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere 2/-
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the nest
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
fgh
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
noveli ies obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also a superior rabbiter s knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
H. L. Hutchinson L‘i
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
__ v „ ugvMiDKFT PfIST OFFICE SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
Postal Address—BOX 3, HAYMARKET POST OFPioe, oium;.. • CT DBPT cvnNFY
Branches —111 KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
Pre-eminent
the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o-U*l'S
THE ACCORDEQN for Country Residents.
fgh
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
lar<re bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. oa.,
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
\
The favourite
SCOTCH WHISKY
everywhere, because of its mature
ripeness, soft refinement, and exquisite
flavour.
ONB OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
The D ISTILLERS P OMPANY 1 td.
U Largest Scotch Whisky Capital employed*^
Distillers in the World,
Capital employe _
over .£3,000,000.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
SYDNEY—AngreI Place.
MELBOURNE-52, William St
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
J u|t n jr^jri^-ir—— n*™—
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
VICE-REGAL
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs,
IGI King Street,
SYDNEY.
Transformations from £3/3/- Puffs 5/6 set.
Fringes from 5/6.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Tails from 5/6*
’Phone 2138 Central.
,r .
A curious bit of evidence as to the preva-
lence of pocket-picking in American cities is
the number of empty purses and pocket-booKs
found in mail-boxes. The thieves post
them to get them out of the way without
being noticed. In Chicago lately the average
was more than 100 a week. Clearing: one box
• early in the morning, a postal official found
19.
“Jean S.” : Whether by accident or malice
:aforethought, a Melbourne paper recently
abbreviated Prahran to P’ram, and thereby
rstruck a great truth by chance. In all my
llife I never saw a hamlet so overburdened
with the creaky vehicle in which Mrs. Sub-
bubs wheels about the little Subbubses, in
addition to parcels, tinned foods and
assorted vegetables. Chapel-street, especially
on Friday afternoons, is crowded with these
four-wheeled derelicts, and the spaces before
the drapers’ windows soon develop into im-
passable clumps of baby omnibus and female.
The John Hops rarely try to disperse these
loitering congregations. Chivalry goes to a
great length in P’ram, and any brute of a
man who attempted to breast his way
through the aforesaid masses would undoubt-
edly be arrested for trespassing.


m
You need not wear the garb or have the foresight and inspiration of the Prophets of
old to forecast future wonderful developments on the North Shore line, especially around
the spot where up-to-date communication by land taps the beauties of the famous Cowan
Bay and Ivuring-gai Chase.
The much-talked-of North Shore Bridge, which successive Governments have hung
ap through want of foresight and courage, must come as the inevitable link between
the South Shore and the North. In no other land are two such great tracts of city
development so disconnected.
Profit by this Prophecy. Buy some
Lots at the Auction of
COWAN-VIEW ESTATE
KURING-GAI.
Sale on the Estate, SATURDAY, MAY 25, 3 p.m.,
WET OR FINE.
The highest point near Sydney—7o2 feet above the Sea. Commands splendid views
of beautiful Cowan Bay, and abutting on famed Ivuring-gai Chase. Boating, Bath-
ing, Fishing, Orchards, pure invigorating air. By rail Seventeen Miles from Milson s
Point, and Twenty-five Miles via Strathfield.
The Estate is already a favorite place for homes. The Bailway Commissioners
evidently forecasted its future by building a fine, large, platform.
EIGHTY LOTS, including BUSINESS SITES.
Sizes to Suit All. Easy Terms . Get a Lit ho.
TO-DAY’S VALUE IS ONE OF LIMITLESS POSSIBILITY.
LENNON, MARX & SCHOLER,
Auctioneers and Property Specialists, 80 Pitt Street, Sydney, and Katoomba.
In conjunction with P, /?, COOK & CO.* Artarmon.
ASTHMA CURE
6RIWIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
E'i TES. Sold by all Chemists.
T>he
Connoisseur’s Cigarette
Jhree Witches
vi
(c*i
VIRGINIA
[IGARETTES
$
v;
w
V r.
C Q/MORRIS
/X \ &sonsL t p
LONDON B.
A Cigarette of the HIGHEST GRADE.
Smoked Everywhere.
Price 5/- per 100, Post Free.
Storekeepers, Tobacconists and Hotelkeepers, send for
our Trade Lists.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Haymarket,
SYJNEY.
HIMRODS
POWDER
r GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from —
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rosa
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will find
in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Stld in Tim by all Chemists and
St.ru tkr.ueh.ut Australasia.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
vWv
v w\y\tli 111 ill li lililililililili 11
COLCRYST
WFiwiwnwiwiwim
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a
A DEPENDABLE HALF-GUINEA WATCH
FOR Till
guaranteed.
This watch is regularly sold at 10/6, and is easily worth more,
but we want smokers to become acquainted with the exceptionally
good quality of the undermentioned goods, and will sell Ihe watch
for 3/11 with an order for same. It’s just our way of advertising.
We specially urge you to try THE SAMPLE BOX OF TEN
CIGARS, FOR 2/6 POST FREE, with which we would sell the
watch for 3/11, post free.
CIGARS
KING OP ALL REIN A VICTORIA —4 a 1/-; Sample Box of 10, 2/6; 60 for 9/6; Box of 100,
18/6; Light and Heavy Weights. All Post Free.
KING OF ALL CLUB, 20/- BOX OF 50. Post Free.
KING OF ALL BUENOS, 6d. each; 3 for 1/-; 100, 32/6. Post Free.
TOBACCO.
2oz. CORN COB Packet, Cut, Light or Dark, lOd. The Watch, 3/11. Postage, 6d. Total, 5/3.
Inter-State, 2d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6. Post Free.
4oz. CORN COB, Plug, Light or Dark, 1/4. The Corn Cob Watch, 3/11. Postage, 6d. Total, 5/9.
Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lib. Boxes, 6/-; 2oz. Packets, 6/6. Inter-State, extra.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
tr, s
“PYROID ” FOR GREY HAIR
DR. GRIFFITHS “PYROID,” latest London Com-
pound of Walnut Stain and English Oak Nuts, one
solution. Three separate shades—Dark, Mid-Brown
and Light Brown. Captured Australian market;
avoid obsolete preparations. Stocked by every Whole-
sale Druggist in Australia. Retail from all Chemists
and Stores. Also, ARIBTS CELEBRATED EGYP-
TIAN HENNA FOR GREY HAIR — everywhere.
•'THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE
LmiJsSchebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising: Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving:. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from vour Engine or n GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.’’ Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).


THE. CAR. FOR THE COUNTRY.
CHALMERS 20-30
Acknowledge
no Competitor.
MODELS.
20-30 2-Seater.
20-30 Pony
Tonneau.
20-30 Touring Car
WE GUARANTEE SERVICE.
This time last year the “CHALMERS” CAR was unknown to Australia.
To-day there are 92 running, all sold within 12 months.
Eighty per cent, of these Cars have gone to Country Clients, because the Car
is now recognised throughout New South Wales as the most suitable Car for the
Stock and Station Agents, Hotelkeeper and Scjuatter, and the Run About for the
Professional Man.
You ask : Explain how it is the “CHALMERS” is acknowledged as the best Car
for Country Work? —Because they are high-powered, light, yet strongly built, and
cost very little for upkeep.
Refer to any of our Clients with respect to upkeep, and they will tell you how
they get from 6000 miles to 8000 miles on their tyres, and average 25 miles to
the gallon of petrol. Ask them what their repair bill has been./ We know their
answer—Nil!
These facts justify the “CHALMERS” in being named the Champion Country
Car.
Let us post you a 1912 Catalogue.
New Shipment of 1912 model “CHALMERS” Cars due this week on the “Star
of Australia.”
“EMPIRE” Run-abouts, 20 h.p., four cylinders, three speeds, forward
and reverse. “GRAMM ” WAGGONS in Stock.
ROY W. SANDFORD.
Sole Agent for
Australia.,
181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY; 105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE.
£lOOO IN JHi s £lOOO
First Great Prize, value £5OO,
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash
for ONE PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full value for the work of art, is pre-
pared to find a purchaser for same at the advertised amount if the winner so
desires, also for the Second and Third Prizes.
Second —value £lOO. Third —value £5O. And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’ Great Art Onion
56th Year Oldest and Most Popular 56th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning
numbers will be posted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the repre-
sentative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 27th April, or send Postal Note,
P. 0.0., or stamps, with Exchange added, direct to the representative, 231 Flin-
ders Lane, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art
Union, 22 for fl, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing,
nth May, 1912. You Forget, BUY TO-DAY.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative, 231 Flinders Lane, Melb., Vic.
THE “NUMBER ONE” CHICAGO
fg
hfg
h
fg
hfg
Hand Horse
Clipping Machine
It is no exaggeration to say that thousands of
“men on the land’’ have appreciated our
“NUMBER ONE” HAND HORSE CLIPPING
MACHINE.
Wherever a man owns one or more horses, there
should be one of our Horse Clippers.
They not only do their work perfectly, but
their simplicity is such that the veriest tyro can
do the work as well as an expert.
Write for our Illustrated Circular.
With
BALL BEARINGS
40/-
With
ROLLER BEARINGS
3 51-
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND:
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON 8 CO.,
252 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Victoria: BRISCOE & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
Sole Agents for South and West Australia ; CEO. P. HARRIS. SCARFE & CO., LTD., Adelaide and Perth.
pYCQL
When you say Disinfectant-
it is just as easy to say
“HYCOL”
and it means also that you
will have the SAFEST,
MOST RELIABLE
the world. It is no
poisonous also, and 18 time
stronger than carbolic.
Agents:
N.S.W. Agents:
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St.,
Sydney.
THE M9STPSWERFUL
DISINFECTANT-
Take Your Pencil and Figure it Out
S3BS),
wm
mwm
mm
m
m
m
■
mm
mm
.
\ “ SS S;
Is Your NET PROFIT what it should be ?
YEARLY BUSINESS EXPENSE
Salaries of Employees £
Horses, Waggons and
Upkeep £
Insurance £
Light £
Heat £
Advertising £
Sundry Expenses ... £
Total Yearly Expenses £
Gross Amount of Busi-
ness for Year ... £
YEARLY VOLUME OF BUSINESS
Gross Percentage of
Profits £
Gross Profits £
Deduct Total Yearly...
Expense £
Net Profit £
This Net Profit is what you
should get
If you are not getting it, then
losses are occurring in the hand-
ling of your money and accounts.
An improved National Cash Register will stop these losses and
enable you to get the profit from your business you should.
WRITE For booklet that tells how.
The National Gash Register Co. of Australasia Ltd.
335 Pitt Street, Sydney 50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
343 Queen Street, Brisbane 117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide
281 Murray Street, Perth Macquarie Street, Hobart
Gold Aedai Paris 1900 # Grand Prize St Louis 1904
kaiodermJH
IB PREPARATIONS
F.GIOLFF & SOHM, Karlsruhe and London
Knlotfermn Jelly
prepared with glycerine <ss honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable # efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Kfllotfermn Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap, the leading soap for softening # improving the sKin.
Kaloderma Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Ucf Uc/'
Rnlodermn Shnulns Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaioderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
n refined luxury at a popular price. jcT Ucy' 1 JcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
hfgh
The Bute Rexophone
This Handsome Strongly-Built
Instrument
is the most wonderful value in Talking Machines ever
offered.
The Sound Box is of the most up-to-date design, ad-
justed so as to give the greatest possible volume and yet
so sensitive that it reproduces perfectly the most delicate
orchestral music.
The Motor is strong and substantially built, smooth
running, fitted with accurate speed adjustment and with
one winding will play one twelve-inch record. It can be
wound while running.
The Large Flower Horn, 16 inches across the bell, is fitted with nine leaves and is
beautifully enamelled in colours with artistic shading. The Tapering Tonearm is
Nickel-Plated and Polished.
The Cabinet is n x n x 5J inches, walnut finish, polished, and has artistic antique
metal decoration on front. Ask for our complete illustrated catalogue of Rexophones.
f g. W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melb. Wills & Co., Quadrant, Launceston. W. Cornell & Son, j
Grenfell St., Adelaide. Jackson & Macdonald. Australian Agents, Pruitt St.. Sydney. !


Now Ready ■
SIXTH EDITION of the
“SURE CATCH ” Australasian
FISHING TACKLE
Magazine - Catalogue.
A REVELATION IN
TACKLE CATALOGUES.
Seeing is believing.
Send your name and address
for a copy ■ — -7 OW.
Gratis and Post Free.
Fishing TacKle.
ANGLERS.— Don’t experiment with inferior brands of Tackle— lT IS COSTLY; but
ALWAYS use “ SURE CATCH,” THE Fishing Tackle that has stood the test of years, and
is now universally recognised as being THE Tackle of
RELIABILITY, QUALITY and SUPERIORITY.
It is THE brand with the reputation for all that is best in Fishing Tackle, and that
reputation we will maintain—whatever the cost. It is used by the FOREMOST ANGLERS
of the day throughout the whole of Australasia and the Islands THERE’S A REASON*
For a comprehensive description of this renowned Fishing Tackle, see our new edition lackle
Catalogue, referred to at the beginning of this advertisement.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
“ The Pre nbr Tackle House of Australasia,”
Haymarket, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Eoverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Glomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno'S 'FRUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.— Examine the Capsule avd see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, liondon,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
7i
Aall
22 Underwear,
SocKs and
StocKings.
For Men, Ladies, and Children.
The beautiful texture of Australasian wool
is at its best in . It is not made
harsh by thprocess of rendering
it unshrinkable. On the contrary, it
retains to the full the soft fleeciness of
ft the natural wool. Hence there is no
better wear than fiffSSr . Why not
wear it ? It costs no more than other
all-wool hosiery.
"fr'SMC Stockings. Socks and Underwear for Men,
Ladies 9c Children. In all prices. '$&6OTL^
. made Jersevs for Children are splendid
wear. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers and Store*.
If your dealer does not stock ** Jason " he can
obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason'*
booklet and name of nearest agent to —
JASON HOSIERY Co.,
bU.N nuaiLivi
Leicester, England.
The
Only kin d *
l that ivont
on -
face}
r *
’.i ■
WILLIAMS’ Shaving Stick
lasts six months and costs
ONE SHILLING, or one quarter
of a farthing per shave.
You can buy CHEAP and RANCID SOAP for half
this price, and thus save one-eighth of a tarthing on
each shave. Is it worth while?
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET
WHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, Gd. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter., Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventu .es of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All Tun Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illns., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’S Science of Life,
10s Gd. A ust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Rot Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d Theory of Value, ls6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, lsGd.
H
■
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy' married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.
nr-
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamw.krs’ Skcukts and How to
Win at Gauds, Is 31. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That llascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How TO
Mesmerise, Is 31. Man From Snowy River, 5s (id.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man llis Own Builder, Is. Every
Man Uis Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Puklic
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
or h rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. f[SF“ Established 1 eats.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks wrru Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers'
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersolls Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Laro.i Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 1 0s 6d posted. The Secb its of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and mu-ic com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Beautiful Lizette ParKes
EXTOLS
Dr. Sheldons New Discovery
MISS LIZETTE PARKES is an Australasian favorite. Her career is a
triumph of both beauty and brains. She recently won two beauty competi
tions in New Zealand. Her stage career has been a singularly versatile
and brilliant one. In the following letter Miss Lizette Parkes points the way to
perfect freedom from Coughs and Colds to all sufferers from Chest Complaints.
%
V 7 ■:%
71/7.9.9 LTZETTE rARKES (from a photo.).
Sheldon Drug Co. Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I am
writing to tell you what
a strong advocate I am
of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. It is the
only thing that does
me any good when I
have a fcW cold and
cough, v4.en my
throat feeis sore or
strained. During the
past two years I have
used it on numerous
occasions, and always
with the best results.
It is an excellent
remedy, and I never feel
safe to start on a trip
without having a bottle
of it in my bag.
With very best wishes
for New Discovery.
I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) LIZETTE parkes
A BOON TO WINTER SUFFERERS. |
r>r Sheldon’s New Discovery for Oouehs and Colds is an uneaualled prepara-
tion?or fl?e Immediate relief of "all diseases of the Throat Broach,al Tabes and
Tames including Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Asthma, Quinsy, hove ; Throat,
Hoafseness Difficult Respiration and pains in the chest.
fo directions is a sure pi eventive of Pneumonia and Consumption. Every bottffi
guaranteed. Price, 1/6 and 3/-
OUGHS
AND ’
OLDS
WAVERLEY FOUHTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
differ from all others by reason of
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. «
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
jDEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a. Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS "as meant
The Dawning - Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOW AY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago# sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Mad Gunner.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
MY Twelve-inch gun is getting old. and
it’s never looked at war ;
I’m wond’ring, as I sit and smoke,
whatever they made it for :
It holds the record for this big fleet —it tears
;the sky to rags;
It knows the Admiral through and through
and reads his signal flags;
I talk to it when no one’s by, though it never
answers me,
But stares straight out across the deck and
over the dancing sea ;
I know it wonders if men still fight, or only
yell “Police!”
For all the time we drill and shoot, but the
whole world rots in peace.
It’s looked at half the world, this gun, for
this ship has sailed a lot;
But never yet, at any fort, has my Twelve-
inch had a shot;
It’s giving a tiger bread and milk to feed
him cloth and wood ;
lie shows his teeth at palaces from his flat,
grey-painted hood ;
But the fleet walks past the faltened coasts
and signal guns salute,
While I Wait to get some solid food for my
poor, hungry brute.
I'd love to give him just one shot at a sleep-
ing fort inshore ;
But they’ll only let him bite in play —there
isn’ c any war !
The Thirteen-inch is now at sea, and the
Fifteen won’t be long;
The ocean used to shake when it heard his
roaring Twelve-inch song!
The spouting columns he could raise made
his brother look small;
Now a bigger thunder-maker speaks, and his
shell-splash is tall;
I hear the scream of bigger shells, and I see
the puffs of spray,
As the unseen projectiles skip in dangerous
t£Lrg6t"pl<iy 5
Great clouds of smoke their turrets hide,
but their darting tongues are red.
And here’s my Twelve-inch rusting out, with
never a foeman dead !
Maybe these guns that rust in peace will
come to life again
When the Lord has fixed the Judgment Day.
Then may the fighting men
Rise up to serve each merry piece from their
graves in sea or sod, _
And with good ammunition thrash it out
with Commander God !
Greatest of mutinies will it be when Heaven’s
ramparts fall
To the stunning shocks of modern shell and
ancient cannon ball,
For every gun and everv man will help in
the work of grace
And when one falls to the angels’ fire a fiend
will take his place !
I will be there with this good gun! I will
aim my pet so well
The fight will slacken to watch my shots, and
cheers will come from Hell!
And when the powder is running low and
Earth is paved with dead —
When o’er the ruins of Heaven hangs Death s
canopy of red.
I’ll fire a shot at a pallid mark that gleams
like a new-bared bone.
And down in a burst of smoke and flame will
fall the Great White Throne!
Then Peace will brood o’er everything, and
the frightened whisper run:
“He fought and vanquished Heaven itself
, with his good Twelve-inch gun!”
.N.S.W.
E.O’F.
The Noo Fellar.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
ANDRE ALLO’ S ' dining-room is hum-
ming with life. It is dinner time.
It is also pay day, with its attend-
ant worries as to which of the boarders will
settle willingly and which will shirk.
Some of them, employees at the adjacent
boot factory, having received their “tin” at
mid-day, have parted up like gentlemen.
Others, with but loose notions of honor, have
gone to other restaurants to dine, while their
pockets are lined, arguing that dinner else-
where may be better, and cannot well be
worse. These will not return till bed-time,
when beer shall have rendered them imper-
vious to the boss’s blighting sarcasms. Beer
will also render them helpless the while he
goes through them for his just dues, leaving
them, the ceremony over, to start another
week without so much as the amount of their
washing bills. .
During the maelstrom of dinner, the boss,
servile and smiling, is yet vigilant. He
notes each diner and registers every foot-
step, lest it be that of some defaulting
boarder. Deftly he places “smoking hot’
orders before his customers. His extended
left arm is crowded with items of the menu.
“ ’Am an’ eggs” balances dizzily upon his
fingers, and a teacloth, tucked into his belt,
trails its grey length after him like a faithful
serpent feeding from the hand.
While “waiting,” he doesn’t neglect the
social side of things. He listens knowingly
to football forecasts, concealing with guile
the fact that, in his estimation, ball, bar-
racker and player, are as nothing. Jokes at
his own expense he laughs at, while, in his
sleeve, he laughs at the joker.
, Dinner over, he turns kitchenwards.
“De noo fellar —ees ’e down yet?” he asks
his wife, who is cutting “cribs.”
A gaunt kitchen “girl” of 40 is wiping up
sky-scrapers of greasy crockery. She inter-
jects : “If it’s that immergrant you’re arskin
about” , , ,
The boss looks at her balefully and says:
“Was I spikin to you? Min’your own blanky
beezness.” He turns again to his help-
mate: “De noo fellar —did ’e pay you for de
meal las’ nighd?”
Years of overwork have made her vicious.
She leaves the “cribs” with a snarl: “No, I
got paid for no meal last night, nor, for the
matter o’ that, did I get paid for me week’s
work. The slaves of America£are better, off
than I am, working 48 howerg/per day with-
out pay. I’ll write to the Wages Board
about it. Not so much as a ‘Thcnk you’ or a
rag to my back.” She returns savagely to
the “cribs.” The boss makes no reply, be-
yond spitting thoughtfully into the stove.
Carrie, the mature, here sandwiches some
facts on equal legislation between the horrid
crashes of the skyscraper.
“Hear, hear!” says a seedy boarder leaning
against the door. The smouldering ire of
the missus flames up again. “Carrie’s right,”
she says ; “equal wages for men and women.
That’s what I want —and what I’ll never get
while I’m your wife,” she adds with convic-
tion. She beheads an inoffensive sausage
lying on the board, and proceeds bitterly to
make a “snack” of it.
“ ’As anyone seen de noo fellar?” asks the
unmoved boss once more.
“Do I understand you to refer to the young
Englishman in No. 2?” asks the wreck by
the door, with drunken dignity. “Poor fel-
low, he has had no luck since he landed in
this God-forsaken country.”
“That’s ’im —the immergrant,” chips in
the irrepressible Carrie. “The boss thinks
he’s a crook. What ’e can’t see is that he’s
a gentleman. Poor an’ proud, like the earl’s
son in ‘The In’eritance.’ I know, ’cause I
offered him sixpence, seein’ ’e was ’ard-up,
an’ he refused it.”
“Shed up, you clattering makpie,” thun-
ders her employer. “Glean de botatoes, an’,
if you ’ave any sixpences to spare, pay me
for two blate —broken an’ ’id on de shelf.”
“Equal wages,” resumes the missus, emerg-
ing from her single combat with the saus-
age ; “it’s just what Carrie”
“Feet ees all r-rot!” interrupts the irri-
tated boss. “Dere is no such a ting as
equalidy. Noh, by gum, dere ees class an’
class. De same between man an’ wive. De
woman, she work wit de ’and —de man, ’e
work wit de brain. Equalidy—seen dam
tom-foolery !”
He dismisses theories and descends to prac-
tical issues.
“You are my wive—therefore you can de-
man’ no waitches. I feed you, pay de beel
for de d-r-ress”
“That reminds me,” cries his wife, en-
thusiasm flooding her homely face: “I want
five an’ nine.”
The boss looks as stupefied as though he
had been sand-bagged.
“Wha-at?” he asks. “Five an’ nine?”
“Five an’ nine,” she repeats in a threat-
ening manner, “for a silk blouse.”
The boss, suddenly weak with shock, gives
way in the legs and falls into the bread bin.
From there he appeals to his saints for pro-
tection against such greed.
“By Cri!” he says feebly. “By Cri!
More c’loes, more blous’. An’ only tree mont
sence I pay de dr-ressmaker for de narrer
skirt!” He remains for a moment stunned,
a moment in which she shrilly catalogues her
wants, amounting to pretty well every article
of feminine attire. Then he rises from the
bin’s embrace and denounces her.
“Five an’ nine for de seelk blouse —an’ m«
a poh man ! Nob —by crum —eet is moh dan
I can stan’! C’loes —c’loes —more c’loes,
like some dam’ parrot you call for noo b’lous.
Look at me,” he screams in frenzy. “YVhen
do I ’ave noo trousis —noo ’at —noo ves’?”
He lays violent hands on his pantaloons.
One trembles lest he rend them in twain.
His hat he throws in challenge among the
roast joints. It is an old hat—origin un-
known —yet, black and greasy as it is, it still
endures. Reposing among the fleeting saus-
ages it might stand as an emblem of Eter-
nity.
“Am 1 a fashion blate?” he demands. Am
I a dam seely azz in gr-reen socks?”
Of such vanity he cannot justly be ac-
cused. He is not in socks of any color.
His wife, enraged at the tirade, jams him
spitefully in the door. “Noh, by crikey,” be
goes on, his bones cracking painfully in the
hinge; “I do not want noo c’loes —noo ’at —
de old tings are goot enough for me. Ido
not gomblain.” Again making the oven his
target, he expresses the opinion that women
and blouses alike should be wiped out of
creation. “I got no time fer ’em,” he says,
but his wife, her nerves at breaking point,
pitches his hat into the yard, and he has,
perforce, to go too, lest some thievish
marine dealer, seeing it, shall make it his
own. The hat rescued, he passes on to
other duties, leaving, for the time, the “noo
fellar” to Providence.
Some stunted cabbages, stacked in the
washhouse, he overhauls, and with his own
fair hands plucks from them the wormiest of
their leaves. Potatoes stored beneath the
washing troughs, and watered by leakages of
soapsuds, are pathetically shooting out long,
anaemic sprouts toward the daylight. These,
the boss diagnoses as “mor’n-narf-rotten.”
Ruthlessly he plants his heel among them,
dragging them forth. The worst are tossed
into a copper, where, over a fire of shavings,
with hissings and bubblings, and the giving-
off of vile gases, they are converted into fowl-
food. . ’ ...
But the back of Andreallo’s mind is still
occupied with his new boarder. He owes a
week’s board. He has not been seen since
yester morn, and has made no answer to his
landlord’s diplomatic intimation, through
the closed door, that “Deener is serve —all
’ot!” Other lodgers have testified to
the striking of matches and the creak-
ing of a rheumatic bedstead in the
“noo fellar’s” room, as late as last night.
Clearly he has not “ducked” away by the
window, as did Casey, the elusive Irishman,
who preceded him in No. 2. Worried, the
boss returns to the house. In kitchen
Carrie and the wreck are in tete-a-tete.
The wreck is Mr. Plantaganet, once mem-
ber of a noble house, but now, a “perman-
ent” in Andreallo’s board-and-lodgery. He
lives on remittances —is repulsive in appear-
ance, and a victim to the juice of the beer-
plant. Owing to this indulgence, he, like
the quivering aspen, is all a-tremble. His
nose shines redly—as the tail-light of a rail-
way train. His linen is celluloid —mended
with gum-paper, and yellow with the fre-
quent wipe. As the boss enters he is drink-
ing invalid port—and is treating Carrie to
some borrowed philosophy.
“ ‘Here, with a loaf of bread, beneath the
bough,’ ” h'e says.
“ ‘A flask of wine’ —er —er —I can’t recall
the next line—‘A flask of wine and
Thou ’ ” . . ' ~ ..
The boss breaks rudely in upon this idyll.
“Shed up,” he says; “sech a clatter in de
keet-chin.” .
Mr. Plantaganet rises with trembling dig-
ni “Mr. Andreallo, sir, —you are ill-bred.
(Continued on next page.)


mo
l
nt»
'/////
K
I
///
■HK3 1 (will pi ifilfC
ZAM-BUK IS THE MOTHER’S FRIEND.
Accidents will happen in the best regulated families, and the necessity
of keeping a reliable first-aid for home use cannot be too strongly insisted upon.
Where a pot of Zam-Buk is kept on a handy shelf, no member of
the family is at a loss in emergency. The bread-winner dresses
his injuries with Zam-Buk, and knows that its powerful antiseptic
action will clean out the wound, preventing suppuration or
poisoning. The housewife flies to the useful little pot for her
bruises, cuts, and burns, and the litt'e ones cry out for Zam-
Buk when they fall, because they know it will soothe
smarting pain and heal quickly.
Zam-Buk ia a powerful healing balm made from saps
and juices which are cleverly combined and wonderfully
refined. Many modern preparations contain quantities of animal
fats and mineral poisons, and are coarse, irritating, and unreliable-
Zam-Buk takes out the smart and soothes pain, reduces
inflammation, and induces a clean and rapid healing right away
It kills microbes, nullifies the effects of dirt or poisonous sub-
stances, and finally helps nature to build up new tissue to
replace that which has been damaged or destroyed. No
home, especially where there are children, is complete or fully ,
equipped now-a-days, without a pot of Zam-Buk always handy
( EVERY - HOME NEEDS - ZAM-BUK, |
INFLAMED WOUND HEALED.
“ j\ II Y daughter Doris fell on the gravel and grazed
/\/\ one of her knees,” says Mrs. A. Barratt,
* ’ living at 37 Dudley Street, Paddington,
Sydney. “ The wound was inclined to be sore and
inflamed, and my girl could walk only with difficulty
on account of the dreadful pain.
“Having a pot of Zam-Buk I applied a dressing of
the balm, which soothed the wound wonderfully and
brought immediate relief. After a few days’ treat-
ment with Zam-Buk the knee was quite well, and soon
there was not a mark to show where the injury
had been.”
Zam-Buk, the ever-ready healing balm, is a
sure remedy for all skin diseases and injuries.
Sold by all stores and chemists, 1/6 and 3/6 per
pot (contains nearly 4 times 1/6).
////////,
//
Is
W<
■
onsßarratt.-^y^^
r amßuk
THE EVER READY HEALER.’
PICTURES 8 IDEAS
PTCTUEES are vital to vonr enterprise, good pictures doubly so.
As to what or how you would classify the subject-matter in order
that the pictures measure up to your public’s standard of good,
may be a debatable proposition. The success of the producer depends
upon his ability to gauge this demand; however, the one thing which is
beyond debate, as related to pictures, is the IDEA or PRINCIPLE of
exhibit of good pictures.
EXCLUSIVE service embodies that IDEA or PRINCIPLE, and
its value is beyond DEBATE.
THE INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMME is exclusive; its pic-
tures are in the main the product of factories which were organised m
the pioneer days of the industry. These factories have lived, have grown,
have prospered on their ability io measure public demand, and in incor-
porating that demand in the pictures they produced.
We have always recognised that good pictures are a necessity, but
we have gone further; we have incorporated with good pictures an idea
—“EXCLUSIVE SERVICE” an idea which conserves the paramount
condition of success.
Success in any amusement enterprise depends upon the novelty of
the production offered; noveltv cannot be protected except through
some form of control. INTERNATIONAL EXCLUSIVE SERVICE
gives this control.
THE INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMME means the PIC-
TURES and the IDEAS which insures your business.
Insist and demand that your Exhibitor shows High-Class Moving
Picture Subjects, which are secured only from the
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES
WILLIAM H. BELL, General Manager.
610 George Street, Sydney.
The Largest Importers of Photoplays, Machines and
Accessories in Australasia.
controlled (j rea t er j. j), Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
CAPITAL, £.200,000.
BRANCHES:
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Cannot a gentleman quote his Omar in a
lady’s appreciative ear—hie—without tiiese
untimely—hie—interruptions? I have plea-
sure in telling you, sir, that you are a
boundah, sir—a boundah !”
He maintains this attitude for half a
second, then collapses into his celluloid, and
falls asleep instantly. The boss stirs him
contemptuously with his foot: “Seely dam
fool,” he says, and passes upstairs.
In the corridor he does sentry duty for
some time. He perches, like a frowsy
Napoleon on his rock, upon the old palliasse
which lumbers the landing outside No. 2.
Then he knocks, but there is no reply.
Evening comes on apace. He applies both
eye and ear to the keyhole. While doing so,
the missus comes upstairs, triumphantly wav-
ing a pink silk blouse in his face. “On tick,
at the corner, shop,” she says. “Five an’
nine, cash ; six an’ nine, booked. So now
you see which is the cheapest way to dress
me.” The boss tells her to take first train
to a lurid place, with terse for
reaching there. .He tries the lock. Then
he goes downstairs for an axe.
He comes back accompanied by several
boarders. Some of them take a turn at the
keyhole. They try coaxing—honeyed words
—threats. Still the “noo fellar” is silent.
“Spik, can’t you?” commands the boss, "or
I will break in de blanky door an’ char-rge
you de damage in de heel.”
There is no reply, gnd the boarders agree
tliat it looks crook.
The landing is now crowded. The missus,
the milkman, Carrie and other reinforce-
ments, hover, excited and apprehensive, in
the background.
“Now. then,” says Long Dave; “give us
your shoulders, chaps. ’ All who can find
room for a shoulder on the door do so. ‘One
two—three—and all together.”
The door swings in. The boarders fall
pell-mell in a heap, in and round the door-
way. The undermost man is the boss. The
topmost is Long Dave. As he regains Ins
feet, something cold and stiflish brushes his
cheek. Also, something on the agitated door
sways heavily.
Spik, can t you ? cries the boss from the
scrum. .
But Long Dave, Ins hair bristling cm his
head, is looking for a frightful second into
a( U of 11 n0 » U' • i. • i
i e tt lloo -i e V. ar . v , lS „ behind, the
do< r p.' ,/j, m 'U'j; f t
The noo fellar, in point of fact, is
aeaa ’
WEEROONA.
The Bloques of Elysium.
FOUNDING THE ORDER.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
THERE comes a time in the life of every
right-thinking male person when the
hash-tower revolts him, and when
life in an hotel looks ghastlier the closer it
is seen. Then man longeth for his own
home. This inexplicable development ex-
plains why so many shockingly plain women
get married, for when that fit comes on a
man he usually proposes to the first object
he meets in a blouse and skirt, rushes into an
arrangement with a time-payment furniture
man, and moves into the dove-cot with
celerity and enthusiasm.
The Feeling struck four of us at the St.
Cloud boarding establishment (which the
proprietress always styled “Sanklu”) simul-
taneously. Two of us had been married
before, and, fortunately, we were both phy-
sically strong, and we held the other two,
who had not had previous experience, down
on Rice’s bed by main force till the par-
oxysm had passed. There were two good-
looking maids on the next floor, and four
unmarried harridans talking scandal down
in the drawing-room.
But although the paroxysm had passed it
would return, and we two ex-married ones,
Jones and myself, knew that fact well. So
we struck while there was yet time. We
felt that Providence had committed these
two poor boys to our care, and at all hazards
they must be saved from the hash-tower
woman. So right on the spot Rice, in a
broken voice, proposed we should found an
Order whose business it should be to dis-
cover domestic happiness, and moving into a
home of our own try and cultivate it.
Morley and Cresswell, the men we were
holding down, clamored to get into the home
right away. We pointed out that the Order
would have to be founded, the house taken,
and the furniture selected and moved in.
They only groaned for a home, and a home
immediately, with plump maids wearing pale
blue dresses and long snowy streamers, or
something like that.
Then, as they had recovered somewhat,
we proceeded to Rice’s room to discuss the
matter. Rice produced something in bottles,
and the rest of the rooms were raided for
glasses. When the glasses were charged,
Rice stood up and proposed the crea-
tion of the Honorable and Up to Date
Order of Bloques—spelt with a “que.”
The house of the Order, which should be
called Elysium, was to be chosen by the
president, assisted by a committee of one.
Rice had moneys in the bank and more com-
ing in every week than he knew exactly
what to do with, and would willingly finance
the show, on the understanding that he was
paid monthly instalments, and that things
should be on an equal share.
Then he sat down amidst applause, and I
promptly proposed Rice for the position of
treasurer, but Rice proposed little Joe, the
Hebrew. After much talking Rice became
treasurer and little Joe secretary, or scribe,
as he preferred to be called.
The dispirited members who were suffer-
ing from vague longings became quite bright.
I got on my legs and told of my former ex-
perience in an establishment of the same
sort in Maoriland. I drew a brilliant pic-
ture of the home comforts, of the cheap liv-
ing, of the glorious shivoos we had, and of
Howard’s Roman the night the
Maori dancer Otanomomo broke her neck
through slipping on an oyster when some
fool turned out the light; and of that other
night when Howard got drunk and mistook
Jack, the cook, who used to wear a long
apron over his Sunday clothes for washing
up, for a fair lady, and abducted him forcibly
to the Club, carrying him across his shoul-
der and whispering endearments as he stag-
gered. There were a few more episodes like
that, and the meeting grew enthusiastic and
I suddenly found myself elected president of
the Order and nartnershio.
Thereupon Joe opened a second lot o,
bottles, and Morley, who had a weakness
for theatricals, got on the table, a ven
small one, and did a weird dance he had
learned for some obscure play. All went
well while Joe . whistled the music, but when
Rice tried to sing it, Morley got out of step,
and upset the table, and came down with
such a bump that the plaster of the roon
below fell down and scared two maidei
ladies who shared it. The gorgon of the
bouse came soaring up, burst in withoui
knocking, and gave us notice three times in
J.O seconds.
We pressed her into a chair and insisted
on her drinking to the new idea. She
became dizzy; something seemed to have hit
her between the eyes, and she drank the
porter laboriously, and held out the glass for
a second supply. Then she recovered her
usual spirits.
“i'ou'd better take this place and appint
me housekeeper !” she murmured. “It would
suit you right down to the ground, and I’ll
let it cheap so long as I get a good billet.
All you have to do is replace linen, cut-
lery and crockery when the show bursts up
—as all bachelor shows do. What do you
say V”
Then she rescinded the notice and pushed
her glass across the table, remarking that if
there were any spare cigarettes she didn’t
mind burning one. She had been a good
fellow in her time, that landlady, till re
spectability and the landlord had driven
all the sap of human gaiety out
of her. But as she . mixed the stout
and the cheese, the spirit of former
days came back to her, and she sat with one
vast, brief leg over the other, puffing a cigar-
ette in rare style, and telling a weird yarn
of a man who had once tried to abduct her.
She was candid enough to admit that,
although she had tried to scratch his eyes
out then, she was sorry since he had not
succeeded.
Next day Ryder joined the combination,
and the Order of Bloques consisted of six
members. Ryder was confidential secretary
to a “financier,” and knew all about where
houses were to be obtained. He laid us on
to a beauty at Woollahra, that had a small
garden in front, and a whole orchard and
tennis lawn at the back, enclosed in a high
wall, with broken bottles on the top. That
wall was guaranteed to keep out the most
hardened copper-plated small boy in the dis-
trict.
We took it.
Rice took a day off and went round buy-
ing furniture, and the president ceased to
help his editor .to save the country for one
day and took on the laborious task of choos-
ing a suitable housekeeper from the 195 ap-
plicants for the billet. He had the wors
job of the lot, and finally solved the problem
by putting the names of the most suitable
ones into a hat and allowing a committee
of the ladies to draw the luckv winner. She
promptlv kissed him on the spot. Fortu-
nately she was neither too old nor too ugly
to make it endurable. Then the president
wiped his forehead and staggered away to
report progress.
Every other member of the Order sympa-
thised with the unfortunate president, and it
was proposed to grant him some compensa-
tion for the damage he had suffered.
An amendment was carried that the fixing
of the amount should be left over till the
housekeeper arrived, vyhen the Bloques would
be better able to judge what compensation
would meet the case. When the lady did
arrive little Joe suggested that each member
should kiss her, just to decide what it was
like. Perhaps it wasn’t as bad as it had
been made out, after all. The proposal to
compensate the president was rescinded.
At last the furnishing of Elysium was
completed, and the housekeeper installed.
We came home one Saturday afternoon and
found a hot dinner awaiting us, but it nearly
got cold while we roamed over the estab-
lishment and admired the fixings. The
dining-room was a fine apartment, with win-
dows on three sides of it, looking out on to
flowers and trees, and the wall of an old
church loomed up against the vision on the
northern side, giving an atmosphere of peace
and refinement. From the end of the din-
ing table where Rice sat could be seen the
red face of a saint with a yellow halo and
blue robe. It was very beautiful.
We had a piano and a piano-player. The
very first Sunday we were there the parson
called in, and, after taking a whisky, asked
us to oblige him by not playing cakewalks
while the congregation was engaged at de-
votions. In fact, he would consider him-
self everlastingly in our debt if we would not
play the piano during service. It made
singing and chanting difficult. Then he
took another whisky and soda, bit the end
off a cigar, and, strolling on to Ihe balcony
that ran round the house, subsided into an
easy chair, put his feet up, and settled down
for a quiet yarn till Sunday-school went in.
Poor parson! He was a decent man, and
a manly man, and, somehow, I thought he
felt like a square hypocrite in a round hole.
But he wasn’t, and later on we often used
to wander in just before the sermon began
to listen while he talked straight, sound
common sense on the subject of man’s duty
to his neighbor. Afterwards he would float
in somewhat surreptitiously, and, subsiding
into an easy chair, talk like a man and a
scholar till the big black clock on the mantel-
piece suddenly flew to pieces, and out of
the wreck a bird struggled to the top and
crowed the hours; after which the frag-
ments of the clock slowly climbed together
again.
And now that the Order has gone I often
sit alone in my present hash-tower, and
think of the brave nights we spent there,
and hear again in fancy the pleasant voice
of the parson talking of the deep things of
life. Bachelor homes are often mere drink-
ing dens. _ Elysium wasn’t. It was a good
place to live, and when I look on the men
who seceded—when I see them walking down
the dusty street, each with a fat, middle-
aged. uninteresting wife beside him, I won-
der how on earth they ever came to do it.
And I know they wonder too, but much more
fiercely than I do.
C. A. JAFFRIES.


W estinghcmse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
PS
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
PULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
for your Supplies.
Packings Oils and Greases
Jointings Boiler Fluid
Beltings Paints
Steam Valves
Water Valves
Injectors
Engineers’ Tools
Twist Drills, Emery Grinders
Feed Pumps
Centrifugal Pumps.
Quality the Best! Prices the Lowest i I
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
WHAT IS YOUR FURNITURE WORTH?
Isn’t it valuable enough for you to make sure of hav-
ing it removed properly ? If so, you should get into touch
with a firm with a reputation for expert removals.
Ring us up to-day. City 1290, Central 476, 2028 and 4012.
Sanders, Sutton & Whitehead Ltd.,
REMOVAL AND STORAGE EXPERTS,
Head Officer 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Depots : Dulwioh Hill, Chatswood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly.
,
Guaranteed 2 Years,
OIL
ENGINE
Otto Four Cycle Type.
This is our 2-h.p.
Hand Portable Engine.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.’’
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES.
Get prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense sale,
and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
fg
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, 1.0. b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit.
Long Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
5m. a „:49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
rTIHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
X appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction apoears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
>
N
m
■
say
Dont
you’ve forgotten
BEECHAMS PULS
BUSINESS MEM and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. frhd. McWiLUAM, Manager.
* I
M 1
- '
Weldless Steel Chains
For All Purposes where Strength, Lightness
and Long Life are Essential.
A Few Good Reasons
why Weldless Steel Chain should be adopted in
PREFERENCE TO ANY OTHER.
It is the STRONGEST chain on the market.
The MARGIN OF SAFETY is Greater than any other
chain.
It is the most DURABLE chain in existence.
It is the most ECONOMICAL chain that can be pur-
chased.
There are NO WEAK LINKS.
The area at the ends of the links where the wear takes
place is much greater than the sides. It may, therefore, be
in use for years before the ends are reduced to the area at
which an ordinary chain begins its life.
All chains are tested to DOUBLE the British Admiralty
Proof.
The illustration is a photograph of a 7-16 weldless chain
which broke with a test load of 9 tons 3c\vt. Note the
Elongation and Reduction of Area at point of fracture.
N.B. —The Admiralty Proof Test for this size of chain Is
2J tons, and the breaking load 4£ tons.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
Australian Representatives:
Haes & Eggers Ltd.,
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Local Agents:
ADELAIDE : Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE: Diamond Lubricating & Trading Co. Ltd., 396=398
Flinders Lane. .
BRISBANE : Dean & Collin, 335 Queen Street.


architects specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 5S of our Motors.
Australasian Agency:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. „
Fireproof Building's of
Fibro-Ccment (Asbestos) Sh^tS
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwelling's, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding- and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of be'st Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole Importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Cfi
TANGYE
99
BENZINE ENGINE.
Kerosene Oil 8 Benzine Engines,
Suction Gas Plants,
Steam Engines, Pumping Plants.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Agents,
Sydney, Melbourne Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville,
Adelaide and Fremantle.
03
on
S3NIH3VW
3HX
AGENTS
for Wolseley Machines in Australia and New Zealand—
MLGETY 8 CO. LUL
“Clayton &
Shuttleworth
99
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
Portable Steam 8 Traction Engines
Steam Road Rollers,
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps.
DALQETY & CO. LTD., Agents,
Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville Fremantle.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
WE carry Stocks of Modern Machine Tools, and give Estimates
for the Complete Equipment of Garage or Repair Shop.
h
Milwaukee Universal “ Constant Speed
Drive ” Milling Machines.
Dempster Moore & Coy.’s Latest Type
Hollow Spindle Lathes.
American Tool Works Double Back Geared
and Geared Head Lathes.
Universal Grinders.
;.i:rv
Milling Cutters.
High Speed Twist Drills.
Shafting.
Plummer Blocks.
Bright Bolts & Nuts.
Oils, Packings,
Leather Belting,
Steel
MMh
:t‘ ‘i*
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores, Farms and Townships,
Tl)« DE “LAITTE”
AIR-6AS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest Illuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the R u-ay
Commissioners of N.S.W. and Victoria. Thousands
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large
Machines supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-flfth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
& CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS.
g (Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street,' ADELAIDE.
Electric Motors and
. -
fgh
m v
Shearing
The experience that has come from 20 years’ success in manu-
facturing Sheep. Shearing Machinery of the highest class, com-
bined with the introduction of important improvements—the re-
sult of close study and experiment—has been utilised in designing
and . making the “Lister” a machine the “Embodiment of Im-
provements.” All parts interchangeable with the Wolseley.
Send for Catalogue.
fg
REDUCE YOUR COSTS
BY USING
THE CHERSEN ROCK DRILL.
Lowest Air Consumption
per foot drilled.
LIGHTEST AND MOST
EFFICIENT.
Sole Agents
for Australasias
2E
3"
BEST
BRITISH MATERIALS
throughout.
Consequently
LOW UPKEEP.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
