

■m r
•r 1 >l )h iv' i
am
''' ! v
■ ' iV |
The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
r }
WHISKY
a-.W'Uh
R. G. WATK.I3VS CO.,
107 KLozxti Street, Sydney,
i. —FOB— •
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
MANY A BUSINES
and others need money quickly and under fair conditions/ To these we' extend our liberal system 1
of financing, and are prepared to make advances upon all classes of security at low rates of interest.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO. LIMITED
Head Office:
M
Castlereagh Street 74, Sydney,
Opposite National
Amphitheatre*
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215=217 Swanston Street, Mel
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W.A
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Ma
u
0
Doctors Recommend
CILBEY’S DRY G
Hadley’sprier
PI O NEED
LEATHER BELTING *'•
Guaraktkrd
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
jĥ
» Take it back,
,1 must have
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
jh
’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECJPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
mm
■_
tJiai
HAN S E NS
jh
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
’ i k) * i n s % *" flips®
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
Wi‘h PALMER cord tyres
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
DRINK
9
'
MAIiTHOID is the one roofing that produces satisfactory
results on every class of building.
) '' - \
From the most Artistic Bungalow to the Shearing-Shed
sounds like a far cry; yet in both these instances, as in
all others, Malthoid has no equal.
Malthoid is a ready-to-lay roof which adapts itself to
every necessity by virtue of it being absolutely water-
proof, weather-resistant to the last degree, and practi-
cally remains intact as long as the building itself.
To buy an imitation is to court serious disaster.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
j D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
jh
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
hj
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
DAVEY PAXMAN
STEAM ENGINES
Portable and Stationary
In no other Engine will you find the economy, ease of
control, and quick responsiveness of steam so well demon-
strated as in a “Davey Paxman.”
Write for catalogue and learn wherein its many new
and improved features make it invaluable to YOU. Portable
types in stock.
.■Ti.
•4
JfoMtasS*
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET
(Opp. Lands Office), SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA
The wonderful efficacy of HELIDON SPA
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption.
STARKEY & COLTD.,
AGENTS.
The Bulletin
VoL 33.—N0. 1694.]
[Thursday, August 1, 1912.
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD.
238 Pitt Street, Syd ney.
Spencer, W. 8., and Gillen, P. J.: Across Australia ; 2 volumes, 25/-
Horence Barclay: Through the Postern Gate, 3/6; posted 3/9.
posted, 25/10.
Chambers, R. W.: J apanica, 3/6; posted, 3/6.
Airst. Bungalows and Cottage Home Designs, 3/6
posted, 3/9.
Rose, W. G.: The Ginger Cure, 2/-; posited, 2/2.
(A smart book on Advertising and System.)
Nietzsche, F.: The Young Nietzsche, 18/-
VJason, It. A.: The Knight Errant, 3/6; p. 3/9.
Turner, E.: Ports and Happv Havens, 3/6; p. 3/9
Headley, F. AY.: Flight of Birds, 6/-; posted, 0/3
Supsmllch, C. A.: Geology of N.SiAV., 5/-: p„ 5/1.
Yuan-Shi-Ivai: China As It Ream- Is; 2/6 ; p., 2/9.
Catalogues and Special Lists on any. Subject, sent post free.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
The great Antiseptic Powder which contains
no acid, and is guaranteed absolutely harmless
to the enamel. In contact, with moisture the
powder liberates free, active Oxygen, and it
is the Oxygen which whitens the teeth so won-
derfully, and wards off decay as no other .pre-
paration for the teeth can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal
bottles, handy for travel or home, price 1/6,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOi CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable information
2] regarding the Teeth.
iHOW TO USE THE POWDER.i
CSC
We Who Are About to Die...
The Red Page
According to Homer Lea, the author of
that remarkable book, The Valor of Ignor-
ance, the Dqy of Judgment has arrived for
the Saxon race. The Valor of Ignorance
showed the United States their inability to
prevent the Japanese from occupying their
western littoral, prophesied the defeat of
the American fleet by Japan, and assumed
Japanese impregnability on the Pacific.
Now, in his second bombshell, The Day of
the Saxon (Harper’s), he does for the
British race what he had done for the
United States. The day of the Saxon is
almost over. And in the coming night Aus-
tralia, with her white ideal, has no refuge
nor hope of succor. We are doomed; and
the hour has struck. So! Though Ilomer
Lea’s gigantic and terrible prophecy is open,
here and there, to criticism, the cumulative
effect of the work is so convincing that
his argument must be adequately stated.
But the book is one that every patriotic
Australian must himself read; a copy should
be among the treasured possessions of the
Minister for Defence.
The Scarlet Circle of the Saxon
The Saxon has marked around this earth,
as has no other befoi'e him, the scarlet circle
of his power. This thin, red Saxon line, so
thin with his numbers, so red with his blood,
was made possible only by his heroism and
racial fealty...-There has been no storm it
has not encountered, no pain it has not en-
dured ; no race it has not fought, and no
disease it has not contended with. The
Saxon line has been to, the earth a girdle
tragic and heroic, binding within itself all
the old and great places of the world.
It is not so much in the vastness of
British possessions that are found conditions
provocative of war as it is in its geographi-
cal distribution.
At the present time no great nation in
Europe 'or Asia can move on those radii
of expansion, as determined by natural law,
radii upon which they must move or fall
into decadence, without the prior destruction
of Saxon sovereignty. It is because of this
that we find in Europe more than 16,000,000
soldiers, and in Asia more than 3,000,000, to
break forth at some predetermined time,
singly or in coalition, and shatter the vast
yet fragile circle of British power.
The author draws a memorable parallel
between this great wall of Britain and the
Great Wall of China. The former is now
but “a monument to the dead that built it
and to a spirit that has all but departed.’’
In the Empire the militant spirit has be-
come of secondary consideration: “It is
now hardly more than that spirit of the
trade rat, redolent and satisfied in the accu-
mulation of that which is useless to national
and racial progression.”
There can be no retention of present
British sovereignty without the repression
of the territorial and political expansion of
other nations—a condition that must cul-
minate in war, one war if the Empire is
destroyed; a series if it is victorious....
The circle of Saxon Dominion must be
broken or the greatness of other nations
restricted. Their growth, their ideals and
aspirations must, on reaching it, stop; and
in that ■ stoppage, decline; in that going
down, perish. But this condition can only
result after long and terrible struggles, after
they have been hurled back from the Saxon
circle into their own small corner of the
world. Should, however, these nations not
be hurled back, then the circle is shattered,
and other nations assume supremacy, each
in its respective arc, over those dominions
of the Saxon race. In this epoch of war
upon which the Empire is about to enter,
hopes of peace are futile. . . . ; constitutions
and kings and gods are without avail, for
these are the old, old struggles that govern
the growth and dissolution of national life.
The Inevitability of War
The same causes and the identical means
that brought about the establishment of all
other nations produced in like manner the
British Empire. By wars and conquests, by
theft and intrigue, by the same brutal use
of physical power, was it put together piece
by piece... .The British Empire has been
made up from v the fragments of four great
maritime Powers; satrapies of petty
potentates and the wilderness of nameless
savages.... Now, after a century of rule,
of such* supremacy as mankind has never
heretofore known, the British Empire is con-
fronted, not by one, but by four Powers in
the eventual struggle for the suzerainty of
one-third of the world. Each of these
nations is proportionally better qualified to
wrest it from the Saxons than were they,
from the middle of the 16tli to the end of
the 18th century, capable of taking- it by
force of arms from Portugal, Spain, Holland
and France.
The foundation of Homer Lea’s arguments
are based in what he calls natural laws: the
book is full of them. He regards war as the
result of natural forces, which can be re-
duced like any other laws to definitions. The
actual causes of the outbreak of wars, he
rightly' says, are never the real causes. These
surface irritations that lead to the declara-
tion of war are the only matters that are
or ever could be submitted to arbitration.
But the causes of wars are to be found far
beneath these transient irritations; they lie
bound up in fhe causes of the growth and
decay of natiobs. Thus the war with Ger-
many may be declared on any pretext; but
it does not lie with any German statesman
to prevent the outbreak of war against Eng-
land the mofnent the economic-pressure upon
Germany reaches that point when it must
expand or decay.
Homer Lea states his two laws that gov-
ern in the future the outbreak of decisive
hostilities, as follows :
1. When the resources of one nation stand
in inverse ratio to its military power, and
the military capacity of its competitor is
proportionate to the needs of its race, then
war will ensue when the military decadence
of one and the economic necessities of the
other reach a known point.
2. When the exploitation of the natural
resources of a nation militarily weak is pro-
hibitive to nations militarily strong, war
will ensue when the economic needs of the
militant powers exceed their own natural
resources.
It is in these two principles that is found
the true source and terribleness of those wars
that must in due time fall upon the British
Empire.
When the convergence of two races reaches
the degree of acuteness now existing between
the Saxon and the Teuton, it invariably re-
sults in war. There is no instance in history
where the political relationships of two
races, approximating that which now
exists between the British and the German
Empires—where one exerts its utmost to
prepare for war, and the other, by evasion
and subterfuge, seeks its postponement—did
not result in one of those decisive wars
which mark with fatal invariability the end
of the uttmartial race.. . .
A battle is a,part of a war; war is a part
of peace. We cannot determine where one
ends and the other begins. A battle is but a
moment of violent human activity, and is the
result of innumerable other conditions and
activities that have preceded it in regular
sequence. So a w T ar is only a battle pro-
longed in time and space....To deny pre-
paration for war during peace is a greater
tolly than to refuse to prepare for battle
after war has begun.
A Mongrel Australia
One of the most pregnant predictions of
this remarkable book is specially applicable
to Australia and her white ideal. The prin-
ciple is thus stated :
In all countries rich in natural resources,
but deficient in inhabitants, the future popu-
lation consists, not of. the descendants of the
first inhabitants, but of those nationalities
whose source of supply is most abundant,
and whose mobility is greatest. With this
migration of mankind there goes on in the
new land a transmutation of racial ideals.
Taking the case of Canada, he finds that
the birth-rate of the present inhabitants can-
not have any deterrent effect upon those
floods that must inundate the Dominion.
“The population of unexploited territories
has nothing to do, now nor in the future,
with localised procreation of mankind. It
belongs to his treks, to those new Crusades
of races wherein the passion that drives
them onward is their hungers.” In the
present immigration to Canada he finds no
single element that would perpetuate the
Saxon race, or keep the future Canadians
imperial. We know that the United States
is no longer Anglo-Saxon. A million persons
entered the States last year, made up almost
entirely of races other than Anglo-Saxon;
and in a generation or two the States will
be in the control of a mongrel crowd in
which it will be difficult to find a Saxon.
Applying this reasoning to Australia, the
fact emerges, not mentioned by Homer Lea,
that we Australians will have no say in the
creation of the nation that will succeed us
and call itself Australian. At present we
can control the racial quality of our immi-
gration, but in the near future we will have
no power to prevent the influx of the over-
flowing nations. As the United States has
become mongrel, as Canada is becoming mon-
grel, so must Australia become mongrel. If
we manage to keep out the Asiatic, a possi-
bility that the author utterly disallows, we
shall have to see our predominantly Saxon
Australia swamped by a motley soup of all
nationalities, out of which there seems small
possibility of the Saxon, or the present Aus-
tralian, ideal emerging. So—the grim end of
White Australia ! But worse !
At some more or less definite time, which
may or may not be the present, the natural
movement toward Australasia by Asia will
begin. There are two tentative preventions,
one peaceful, the other military. The first
by populating these regions with Saxons and
white races. Second, by military power en-
forcing the prohibition of Asian immigra-
tion. The impossibility of the first prohibi-
tory measure is apparent, since the increase
of the Saxon population must go on in the
future, as in the past, by propagation and
voluntary immigration. Yet the relative dis-
proportion in numerical strength now exist-
ing between the white races .of Australasia
and the colored races of Asia will not de-
crease, but/will be augmented in a constantly
increasing ratio To have confidence,
therefore, in the ability of the Saxons to pre-
serve for themselves, through immigration or
propagation, Australasia and its environs is
only expressive of futility. In this belief as
found the apocalypse of the white man's
ignorance It is in the realisation that the
armaments and military knowledge of Asian
Empires are now equal to those of Austral-
asia that we become cognisant of the omin-
ous gulf that separates the 6,000,000 of the
Saxons in the South Pacific from the thou-
sand millions that surround them.... Home
defence for Australasia and Maoriland is a
military anomaly.
The Futility of Our Land Defence
While the Pacific colonies and dominions
can never possess alone that defensive capa-
city to prevent the seizure of their territories
by any Power which has gained control of
their seas, yet they constitute a source of
war, and become more constantly provocative
ot it as the Pacific becomes more and more
the foci of human struggle.... Australasia
is not fixed, in the sense of racial or national
security, upon the bed of its ocean. It is
fixed only so long as it is anchored to the
British Empire. .. .The efforts, now being
made for Australasian defence are so de-
limited that they form an immaterial factor
in the ultimate struggle for national sur-
vival. They belong to world conditions that
no longer exist.... Considering Australasia
as a sovereign nation, with its inherent mili-
tary responsibilities, what constitutes the
error of its defence? It is in the adoption
of a continental system to the protection of
insular territory.... The permanent defence
of Australasia is naval.
The author lays down the three cofiditions
that show our land defence futile :
1. The relative disproportion between the
attacking forces and the defenders: (a) Dis-
parity in population and wealth between
Australasia and the power capable of attack.
(6) Australasia is divided into seven dis-
tinct military spheres that are neither correl-
ative nor co-operative, (c) The defence of
the whole is determined by the struggle in
the strongest sphere, the population of this
region determining the defensive potentiality
of the whole.
2. Nine-tenths of the population live adja-
cent to the sea.
3. Retreating inland, instead of moving
toward the base of their resources, they move
away from them with the first retrograde
movement.
Suppose Australia attacked, we can
either concentrate all our forces “into one
sphere, say that of Sydney, and the enemy
can occupy the rest of the" continent. Or if
we don’t know where the enemy’s attack
will fall, and each sphere is confined for de-
fence to its own forces, each can be isolated
and destroyed in detail. Had we, of course,
the two straight lines making the sign of the
cross on the map—a possibility of which the
author takes do notice—this would not be
so easy. The seizure of Australia, he states,
is restricted to two strategic spheres, those
of which Sydney and Melbourne are the
bases. It is the geographical fatality that
has kept the population on the edge of the
continent that is the fatal weakness in our
defence.
Australia, while a continent, is also an
atoll; without the ocean, within the desert.
Both the sea and the desert are, as regards
military calculations, identical. To retreat
toward the ocean in control of the enemy is
disaster; to flee to the desert is death....
Once the defence of eastern Australia is
thrown westward of the Blue Mountains,
and the defence ; of southern Australia is
pushed north of the Australian Alps, organ-
ised defence in the form of armies will pass
into that final stage of inutile warfare,
guerilla and predatory, until, self-exhausted,
it reaches its end. What Nature gave the
Boers it has denied Australia.
So our defence, the temporary land de-
fence, requires numbers that, owing to the
segregation of our defensive spheres, must
be equal in each sphere to the total forces of
the enemy. Our forces cannot be considered
in the aggregate; and “the character, arma-
ment and training of Australian forces are
determinable, not by Australian legislation,
but by the character, armament and training
of the strongest probable enemy.” The per-
manent defence is naval. We require a fleet
equal to the fleet of the strongest maritime
Power in the Pacific.
This degree of naval power can never be
attained by Australasia. It is possible only
to a united British Empire.
Australia to Defend India
The Day of the Saxon lays stress upon the
paramount importance of India to the Em-
pire. The author holds that the loss of India
would be. the most vital blow given to the
Empire. Indeed, he suggests that an inva-
sion of England would be of less importance
to the Empire' than the conquest of the
brown country.
Its loss means primarily that there has
been made in the circle of British dominion
a gap so vast that all the blood and fire and
iron of the Saxon race cannot again bring
together its broken ends.
And with the loss of India the author
sees the immediate destruction of Australasia.
The whole question of the control of the
Pacific is, in his argument, bound up with the
retention of the brown triangle. The first
principle of Australasian defence is the
defence of India!
The Fatal Alliance
The author has not words strong enough
to condemn the Jap. Alliance. He terms it
one of the most potent factors in those forces
which tend to bring about the dissolution of
the Empire. The defeat of Russia by Japan,
only rendered possible by the Alliance, re-
sulted disastrously to the Saxon.
It was in the renewal of this alliance that
the Empire finally failed in its duty toward
its Pacific dominions to even a greater degree
than has Australasia failed in its subordina-
tion to Imperial interests and unity....A
second insular Power has been born to live
as it (the British Empire) has lived, and to
loot as it has looted the highways of the
sea.... Janan is stronger in the Pacific than
the British Empire is in the Atlantic....
The Alliance has made possible, in the full-
est sense of the term, the Japanese Empire.
It may result in giving over to her sover-
eignty one-third of the w0r1d.... By the time
this alliance comes to an end we will find
the Indian frontiers more vulnerable than
ever, the western marches of China occupied,
and Japan impregnable in the Pacific. . . .
Should the British Empire, following this
war (that forecasted between Japan and, the
United States) become involved i- Europe
or on the Indian frontier, her defeat would
result in the eventual inclusion of Austral-
asia under Japanese sovereignty.
The right alliance that should have been
entered into, he contends, was one between
the Empire and China, in order to pre-
serve the vital balance of power in the
Pacific. The natural allies are Japan and
Russia. And in the cables last week we
heard of the first step toward that consum-
mation. Here, at least, Homer Lea has
shown himself a true prophet. At all costs
England must rehabilitate China —a deca-
dent China means the expulsion of Saxon
power from the Pacific. But there is a
greater alliance looming—one which means
the dominance of the world. That is Ger-
many, Russia and Japan. The author shows
why this potent alliance will inevitably take
shape.
The Handicap of Naval Power
Spdce does not permit the examination of
the successive stages by which the Germans
have steadily progressed toward war with
the British Empire; nor is there space to in-
dicate the necessity for Britain to secure
the Low Countries from German dominance.
But mention must be made of the arguments
by which he shows that a victory of the
British fleet over that of Germany, owing
to Britain’s military inability to take the
offensive, would in the end be actually as
disastrous as a defeat. Victory can only be
gained by the use of armies. The wiping
out of the German fleet would merely post-
pone the inevitable, since it could have no
effect on the German dominance of Europe,
nor prevent the German march upoh India.
British “control of the sea” grows less and
less important as land intercommunications
progress. A British naval victory only-
transfers the theatre of war from the sea to
the land. Nor can British naval power
prevent Russian advance upon Persia and
India.
Nothing except the x-uin of the British
navy increases German sovereignty in
Europe more surely than the defeat of her
own fleets. Unless the British Empire is
able to take those military measures that
will i-esult in the destruction of German
capacity to wage war, then its naval vic-
tories are useless.
And Britain has deliberately chosen as the
theatre of war the North Sea, instead of
Germany. The importance of this error it
is impossible to elucidate here.
The Saxon’s One Chance
Ilis advice is for England to jump in now
and initiate the inevitable war by occupy-
ing the buffer nations against the Germans.
England seized Denmark in the beginning of
last century merely to prevent the employ-
ment of the Danish fleet by the French. Her
occupation of the Low Countries would be,
in his opinion, merely a territorial and not a
moral violation, and in this act he sees the
Empire’s one hope of postponing the inevit-
able.
The only chance for the Saxon race to
survive is through : (1) Military and naval
unification of the Empire; (2) Complete
separation of defence forces from the civil
government of the dominions; (3) Universal
and compulsory military service throughout
the Empire; (4) All armies organised as ex-
peditionary forces; (5) Size and distribu-
tion of Imperial armies determined by size
and distribution of its probable adversaries;
(6) Militancy and military power to be in-
creased automatically with each military
increment of the expanding nations; (7)
Centralisation —-not a confederacy, but mili-
tary unification.
And not one of these suggestions is likely
to be acted upon before the arrival of the
great war, or the simultaneous wars, or the
series of wars, that w'T burst the thin red
Saxon .ring into fragments. And the one
white race will disappear, and over its
world-scattered grave the conquerors will
paint some hieroglyphics which, being inter-
preted, will read: ‘'This was the race who
said that the time was -not yet ripe." And
at last a very tired sun will set over the
Empire that used to boast that it couldn’t.


Jk
nee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ 3 WEEKS SALE
BOOMING MERRILY. Last Day: SATURDAY, AUGUST 17, 1912.
Genuine Reductions in Every Department.
Manchester Marvels.
HORROCKSEY WHITE CALICO.
HORROCKSES’ MADAPOLAM.
CREWDSON’S WHITE CALICO.
170 pcs. GO 36in.
30 pcs. AA 36in.
20 pcs. BB 36in.
49 pcs. CC 36in.
45 pcs. 22 36in.
105 pcs. 33 36in.
47 pcs. 44, 36in.
16 pcs. M 36in.
Nightshirt
5 pcs. P 36in.
Nightshirt
Linen finish ...
Longcloth
Longcloth
Longcloth
Longcloth
Longcloth
Longcloth
Double Warp
Cloth
Double Warp
Cloth
-/5
-/n
~/«h
-/n
-n
-/8
-/»
~/9& 8/11
-/ll 9/6
5/11
6/6
6/11
7/9
8/9
9/6
6/6
7/9
9/6
4/6
6/3
7/3
7/11
6/3
6/11
7/11
Barometers s Thermometers
, „ ... . Usual Reduced
1 Best quality English-made p r i ce to
Surveyor’s Aneroid, in leather
case, 3in. dial, scale 4000 ft.
ascent, 2000 ft. descent, with
mining scale £5/10/- £5
2 best quality English-made Al-
titude Barometers, in gilt
. hunting case, scale 8000 ft. .. 40/- 35/-
3 lOin. Carved Oak Circular
Aneroid Barometers .. .. 32/6 28/-
3 6in. Carved Oak Circular
Aneroid Barometers .. .. 27/- 25/-
1 Sin. Carved Oak Pediment
Barometer, with Thermometer 60/- 52/6
2 Bin. Carved Oak Pediment
Barometers, with Thermometers 45/- 40/-
2 Best quality English-made
Recording Thermometers,
with eight-day clock move-
ment, in polished walnut and
glass case, complete with Box
of Charts and Book of In-
structions 90/- 80/-
STATION SUPPLIES.
The Federal Wire Strainer and
Splicer, for strength, neatness,
simplicity, economy, and dura-
bility, cannot be beaten, doz.
New pattern Lever, each
200 Sheep or Stock Bells, No. 100
200 Sheep or Stock Bells, No. 101
GALVANISED WIRE NETTING.
Each 50 yards.
300 Rolls, 24in. x 2in. x 19 gauge
306 Rolls, 36in. x 2in. x 19 gauge
200 Rolls, 48in. x 2in. x 19 gauge
200 Rolls, 60in. x 2in. x 19 gauge
300 Rolls, 72in. x 2in. x 19 gauge
American Black Steel Fencing Wire.
Approximate Length per cwt., 397 yards.
20 tons 6-gauge—
Offered at £7/15/- per ton; 8/- per cw
THE “BALANCE” CREAM SEPARATOR.
REDUCED EOR THE SALE.
An opportunity for farmers, caterers, coi
fectioners, tea-room proprietors, and others 1
purchase an up-to-date separator at a lo
price, and increase the quantity of butter ;
per cent.
No. of Separator.. 48 36 10
Separation per hr. 11 24 40 gal
Reduced to .. £3/2/6 £7/5/- £O/2/6 e
No. of Separator.. 41 42 43
Separation per hr. 55 80 100 gal
Reduced to .. £ll/10/- £l4/15/- £2O/10/- e
Note —Duplicate parts can always be supplie
LAMPS FOR LIGHTING.
Burning Mostly Kerosene.
table lamps.
100 Glass Fount, iron base, B
Venus, each
90 Opal, 14in. x 9iin. shade, 29/4
6 B Venus, 172, decorated
7 D Flat-wick, 171, colored
globe
2 Miller Gilt. 09. 7in. shade ..
2 Dupiex, D 93, 4in. globe
15 5047, lOin. opal shade
_1 Miller, 5047, decorated, lOin.
shade
36 Miller, 5217, gilt, lOin. opal
SnfluG
42 Miller, 5217,' gilt,' 4in."globe.'
Consult the Sale Catalogue for list of goods that have been
reduced in pries. Write for a Copy, posted free on request,
and reap the full benefit of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Sale Prices.
Our reputation stands behind the statement that the
reductions shown in the Sale List are in every case genuine.
SAVINGS FOR SHOOTERS.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
GUNS REDUCED,
10 Leige Arms Coy. D.8.8.L.
Guns, imitation Damascus
barrels, bar locks, percussion
fence, Deeley-edge, fore-end
fastener, half pistol walnut
stock, 12-gauge
14 Leige Arms Coy. D.8.8.L.
Guns, steel barrels, Greener
Cross Bolt, bar locks, engine
turned ribs, 12-gauge
3 Greener’s 5.8.8. L. Guns, steel
barrels, walnut stock, 12-gauge £B/10/- £7/17/6
10 Hollis’ 5.8.8. L. Guns, bar
locks, steel barrels, 12-gauge,
neatly finished .. .. £5/12/6 £5/5/-
48/6 42/6
45/- 40/-
2 ,T. O. Mayne’s 5.8.8. L. Guns,
twist barrels, back action
locks, hammers below line of
sight, walnut stock, 12-gauge,
neatly finished 63/- 56/6
2 Arthur Adam’s Martini Action,
English-made Rifles, superior
quality and finish throughout,
leaf sight to 300 yards, flat
top non-reflecting barrel, 26in.
long, 450 calibre, good walnut
stock .. .. . • •• 37/6 35/-
Sewing: Machines Sacrificed,
FRISTER & ROSSMANN’S IMPROVED LOCKSTITCH HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINES are
Simple, Durable, Light Running and Noiseless, and possess all the latest Improvements,
including Fast and Loose Wheel, Self-acting Thread Lifter, Silent Shuttle Action, Self-
setting Needle, Shuttle Lifter, Self-threading Shuttle and Self-acting Winder.
No. 15 F. & R. IMPROVED LOCKSTITCH HAND MACHINE,
with elegant Walnut Cover, on Walnut base, with
Fast and Loose Wheel, Patent Self-acting Bobbin
Winder, and full set of attachments. This Machine
is specially suitable for family use; it will sew any-
thing from the finest muslin to the stoutest cloth.
Usual Price, £3; Reduced to £2/12/6. Packing Free.
No. 19 F. & R. IMPROVED LOCKSTITCH SEWING MACHINE,
Hand and Treadle combined (as illustrated), inlaid
Walnut Cover, Drawer in centre, including all the
latest improvements. Packing for the country, 2/6
extra. This Machine may be removed from Stand
and used as a Hand Machine, like No. 15.
Usual Price, £4/7/6; Reduced to £3/17/6.
No. 50 F. & R. HAND SEWINC MACHINE,
with Vibrating Shuttle, Walnut Base and Cover, in-
cluding all latest improvements and full set of at-
tachments.
Usual Price, £3/17/6 ; Reduced to £3/7/6. Packing Free.
No. 60 F. & R. SEWINC MACHINE,
with Vibrating Shuttle, Hand and Treadle combined,
Inlaid Walnut Cover and one Drawer. May be re-
moved from the Stand and used as a Hand Machine,
as No. 50.
Usual Price, £5 10s.; Reduced to £4/15/-
Packing for the Country, 2/6 extra.
F. & R. No. 19.
Free with each machine } complete set of the latest attachments. Duplicate parts always available.
By Exclusive Arrangement with “The Times.'
Wit and Humor are the sunshine of Life.
Punch is the embodiment of Wit and Humor.
Wit ma.kes a man smile , Humor makes him laugh.
Happy is the man who can meet loorries with a smile
and disappointments with a laugh.
As a cure for the evils of life we
recommend a course of PUNCH’S PUNS.
The first hundred half-yearly issues of Punch, in
25 Quadruple Cloth Bound Volumes, each about llj
inches hitch, 9i inches wide, and 2J inches
thick; containing 30,000 pages, with about 50,000
illustrations, printed from the original plates, to
which is added a 26th volume to match, being “The
History of Punch/-’ bv M. H. Soielmann, enriched
with numerous portraits, facsimiles of autographs
and other curiosities of literature.
26 VOLUMES, CLOTH BOUND, PACKED
COMPLETE,
Sold by “The Times” in
London at £15;
Our price, delivered in
Sydney—
£6jlO|
Spot Cash.
Saddlery Section.
20 sets Black Buggy Harness,
with Alexander bead saddle,
Yankee collar, breeching with
folded seat, folded hand-part
reins, solid nickel whole buckle
furniture, best selected colo-
nial leather, hand sewn, full
size or pony, set
12 sets Black Buggy Harness,
W'ith patent leather English
saddle, ljin. backhand, tugs
and traces, split hip straps to
breeching, collar and hames,
nickel mounts, full size or
pony set ..
10 prs. Buggy Winkers, pair ..
15 prs. Buggy Hames and Tugs
90 American False Collars, 16 to
18in., each
70 Ditto ditto, each
3 doz. Snaffle Bridles, fin., each
3 doz. Snaffle Bridles, fin., each
6 doz. Snaffle Bridles, lin., each
Usual Reduced
Price. to
£6 £5/5/-
77/6 72/6
10/- 8/6
12/6 10/6
2/6 1/6
2/ 9 1/8
3/9 3/6
4/- 3/9
4/3 4/-
THIS Famous Fixture presents exceptional opportunities to
people all over Australia to secure the best goods manufac-
tured at prices that are far and away lower than it is
possible for them to obtain goods of a like high quality elsewhere.
VACUUM FLASKS Reduced
VACUUM Flasks, Picnic Jars, Food Carriers
and Jugs keep Hot for 24 hours food and
drinks which are hottled hot, even during
the most severe winter weather, and keep
Cold for days food and drinks which are
bottled cold, even during the hottest weather.
No preparation whatever is necessary, the
vessels are always ready for use, and per-
manently retain their powers of insulation.
VACUUM FLASKS
FOOD CARRIERS.
For Tourists, Officers, Business Men, and
Household use. Holds a dinner for several
persons. With Wide Opening and Covered
Spout, and is equally suited for all Foods and
Beverages.
Pints—
PICNIC JARS.
WIFI, HOLD LIQUIDS OB SOLIDS.
With Nickel Top and Bottom and Drinking
Cup.
Pints—
Vacuum Round Form Jugs
These Jugs are unequalled in regard to in-
sulation of Heat and Cold. The Jug is closed
by means of a cork plug fitted with elegant
metal mountings. The construction of the
spout allows the cork to be placed in position
or taken out without difficulty. Excellently
adapted for Sick Rooms.
Pints —
Nickel-plated
Silver-plated, dull finish
Silver-plated, polished ..
Quarts —
Nickel-plated
Silver-plated, dull finish
Silver-plated, polished ..
.. 19/- 15/6
.. 27/6 22/6
.. 30/- 24/6
25/6 21/-
35/- 28/6
37/6 30/-
Vacuum Straight Form Jugs
This type combines a modern, artistic form
with practical advantages which stand abso-
lutely unrivalled. The wide opening admits
of solid food, such as Meat, Vegetables, Ice
and Fruit, being put in and taken out in the
most convenient manner. The lug is also ex-
cellently suited for keeping Tea and Coffee
hot, as well as Iced Drinks, Lemonade, Wine,
etc., cold.
Quarts (approx.)—
Washing Machines and
Mangles.
The Queen Washer, with important improve-
ments. It is different from the rest and
easily the best. Far in the lead of all com-
petitors for effectiveness, ease, durability,
handiness and cheapness.. Reduced to 35/-
,Champion Washer, with entirely new rotary
movement .. ... .. Reduced to 37/6
Tire “Veribest.” A Water Motor Driven Wash-
ing Machine. 301 b, pressure required. Equal
in every respect to other washers, but
worked by water power. Average weight of
machine, 901 b. Average measurement, 24in.
diameter, 15in. deep .. Reduced to 80/-
The York Mangle, a strong, serviceable
machine —
Length of rollers, 22in. .. Reduced to 55/-
Length of rollers, 24in. .. Reduced to 57/6
The Perfect Mangle, with frictionless roller
bearings .. .. 24in., 72/-; 27in., 82/6
The Household Table Mangle, with ball bear-
ings Reduced to 30/-
&
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
-SYDNEY, N.S.W.


u,,,,H,,,,li| liiiSiiijip® i
i
m
THE
Emulsion
Renewed Health and New Life for All
gfrggs
»S.
H
A delicious wine tonic, restorative, blood maker and nerve food that
is recommended by over 10,000 Doctors and thousands of Nurses.
When you consider what your health
means to you, when you realise that it is,
perhaps, your greatest asset, surely
you will appreciate the absolute
necessity of maintaining a definite
and safe standard of physical and
mental fitness.
Unless you do so, any extra
exertion, any extra
worry, will not only
cause that “run
down ” and “ out-of-sorts ”
feeling, but is liable to undermine
your constitution and sap your vitality.
If you will take “Wincarnis,” “the
wine of life,” regularly, just for a
few days, you will be astonished
and delighted with the wonderful
improvement in your health, and
the increased vigor and vitality
“Wincarnis” will create.
“ Wincarnis ” will give you such
an abundance of renewed health
and strength that your whole
system will glow and pulsate
with new life.
**** A tAAJi
4
rl
r
m?T?
is warmly recommended and prescribed
by over 10,000 doctors, men of culture
and keen intelligence—who know
from personal experience that “Win-
carnis” gives renewed health and new
life to sufferers from anaemia, sleep-
lessness, weakness, brain-fag, exhaus-
tion, debility, nerve troubles, and dur-
ing convalescence following a prolonged
illness.
Will you try “Wincarnis” ? Yon
.will be delighted with the way it will
give yon renewed health, increased
vigor, greater vitality, reserve strength
and new life. Try just one bottle.
Will you?
WINCARNIS is sold by all Wine Merchants, Licensed Chemists and Greeks.
Australian 8 New Zealand Depot: Fassett 8 Johnson,
5 8 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
COLEMAN 8 CO., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENG.
tp
s
mgsms
ii
m
; -■ $
: r
Ip
m
mgsmm
v,\-H
■i~> s s.
&
3
Business, Robbery, etc.
Geelong keeps challenging Melbourne in the matter
of big industries. Adding another to its long list,
it has just opened cement works at Fyansford, two
or three miles out. These works, replacing some that
were small and out of date, can turn out 3000 casks
a week, or altogether 5000 tons more than Victoria
found it necessary to import last year. The cost of
the outfit was, it is said, something like £75,000,
and there is already talk of going still further.
“Nulla Bona”: Amongst the latest immigrants to
land in Australia is the Greater American Beef
Trust. For five years its agents have been trying to
get a foothold here through existing meat firms and
companies. In Argentina they were able to buy out
all the big freezing works, but here they failed. The
men in the Australian trade were chiefly the pioneers,
who had just finished a long, hard struggle to estab-
lish the business here and in Britain, and they were
loth to accept the tempting offers made by the
Trust’s ambassadors. So the Trust made a start on
its own account by buying 130 acres with a frontage
of nearly a quarter of a mile to the Brisbane River,
and on this area it is erecting a frozen meat export
depot bigger than anything outside the huge La Plata
Freezing works, which J " Trust bought from the
Australian and Argentine shareholders of the La
Plata Cold Storage Co. The grip of the American
Beef Trust on the meat business, from the grazier to
the consumer, is complete, not only in the protected
Yewnited States but in Freetrade Britain. The
rancher in the States is forced to take whatever the
Trust bids for his cattle, because there is no open
market and no competition. The consumer in Liver-
pool and London is forced to pay whatever price the
Trust demands, because the Trust controls the meat
import trade. If the colossus is not vigorously re-
pulsed at the very beginning, it will regulate both
the production and the export of Australian meat in
a few years, to the permanent injury of our farmers
and graziers, and to the serious hurt of the Aus-
tralian. The Beef Trust’s plan is to give high prices
for cattle at first, and so wipe out other buyers. At
the same time it sells meat to the public cheaper
than the local butchers, whom it eventually bears
into bankruptcy or alliance. Directly it has throttled
both buying and selling competition, and col-
lared the trade completely, it drops the price
of cattle and pulls up the price of meat. It
means ruin for tens of thousands of Australians if
this business gets a sound footing here, and no powers
are too despotic for the Government to use to strangle
it at the very outset.
“Tarrawingee”: The attached cutting from the
Kalgoorlie Miner (W.A.) howls for itself:—
TENDERS.
KALGOORLIE ROADS BOARD.
TENDERS will be received up to Friday, the
31st inst., at 5 p.m., for the RIGHT TO AD-
VERTISE on the Board’s Sanitar}' Vans.
All particulars obtainable at the Office of the
Board, Porter-street.
No tender will be necessarily accepted.
M. J. RICHARDSON,
Secretary.
The dreadful vehicles trundle about their business
in broad daylight, so it will not be necessary to have
the ads. done in luminous paint. I wait with in-
terest to see whether the chocolate folk, or the ladies’
hat people, or the clericals, make the first snatch at
this rare chance of publicity.
When the gentleman who robs the sheep of his
winter overcoat asks for more pay than he used to
get, he will be glad to consider this remark of the hig
Dalgety firm, in its just-issued annual sheep report:
“Though there were many more sheep to shear (say)
20 years ago, the clip shorn during the past season
eclipses all previous records.” Dalgety’s, who ought
to know, say that the weight cut per sheep is now
greater in Australia than in any other country of
the world, “though the fleece may not be so fine in
quality as formerly”—which last remark probably
has some connection with the disastrous export of
so many of Australia’s finest stud sheep to S’Africa.
“F.J.1.”: It is a harder matter than it looks to
find out exactly how much money Australia owes
abroad, collectively and individually. Here is the
result of my delving, submitted with the warning that
it cannot possibly be correct. These figures represent
“capital subscribed,” which often consists of two
parts paper, two parts water, and one part cash,
especially when the company has been floated in
London. Many companies on the lists were floated
only to sink, so this table does not include, for in-
stance, the Loddon Deep Lead cos., which were
simply sinks, and many unmistakable untamed
“cats.” To compile a “cat” list meant digging
into the past of a heap of mining and miscellaneous
cos., and stirring up large quantities of dust and
bad smell and dead body. The figures for mining cos.
represent book values, and £16,000,000 about fairly
represents the “live” value of Bull s mining scrip.
The market value at one time or another of the
£16,000,000 must have been more nearly £100,000,-
000 on the London Stock Exchange. As illustration, in
1889, Mount Morgans sold in London for £l6—and
there were a million shares on the registers. The
Bulletin usually states the vearly tribute paid by
Australia to London at £14,500.000, and this is
probably as near the mark as it Is possible to get,
because there are still large sums of mortgage money
and share capital invested here, of which there can be
no public record. No figures are published regarding
British insurance cos.’s investments in this country.
Speaking generally, the main deduction from the
compilation is that Australia is becoming more self-
reliant in the matter of capital, and every year less
inclined to borrow .money from its poor' old Uncle
John. _ The statistics concerning Government and
municipal loans have been taken from newspaper
announcements as well as official statements, so as
to bring them up to 30th June, 1912.
Public Debt, funded and unfunded . . £286,000,000
Corporation and municipal loans . . 23,000,000
British Banks —Capital . . . . . . 7,755,000
British Banks —Deposits in London.. 2,245’000
Pastoral companies . . . . . . 3,755.000
Miscellaneous companies .. . . 2,670,000
Mining companies 16,000,000
£341,425,000
ROCKEFELLER’S FINISH
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Statisticians have computed that John D. Rocke-
feller’s income is £2B a minute.
While some of us must pull and haul,
Or delve, or scribble rhyme, or scrub,
Or guide a plough, or swing a maul
All day to earn our meagre grub,
This fellow's income never ends,
And, though he sleep, or stand, or sit,
In ever-dripping dividends
His shower of minted gold descends.
If Heaven in its wrath think fit
Some day he may be caught in it!
Through eyes of faith the stirring scene
Is photographed upon* my brain,
A living picture. All serene
Rockefeller feels the precious rain
That bounces on his hairless crown.
He grins and coughs a joyous wheeze
To hear it gaily clinking down,
The while he capers like a clown.
But dollars on his ankles seize,
And soon he’s buried to the knees.
He chortles while the tide of cash
is rising well above his thighs.
He loves its sweet, metallic splash,
And greets the flow with rapturous cries.
It climbs about his neck, it slops
Into his gaping mouth. Anon,
Above him rain the golden drops,
And John D.’s breath for ever stops.
So up to judgment passes John
With all his sins his head upon.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
V
AEROGEN CAS GENERATOR.
WARNING.
It has become necessary
for us to Warn Buyers
that all Air Gas
Machines are not
Aerogen Machines.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
Forsayth, North Queensland,
■ March 4, 1912.
Dear Sirs,- —
Twelve months ago I purchased from you a 90-light Aerogen Gas Plant to illuminate two
(2) Hotels, both two-storeyed, a Public Hall, and Aerated Water Factory at Forsayth, super-
seding two (2) Acetylene Generators. lam very pleased with the change, which has resulted
in substantial savings in both cost of light and labor, in addition to providing a better light.
The light is white and brilliant.—Yours faithfully, j j; B TORPY
Quirindi, N.S.W.,
November 12, 1910.
Dear Sirs, —
Regarding the Aerogen Gas Plant you lately installed for us, we are very well pleased with
it, and can, with confidence, recommend it. The lighting is good and the working of the
machine easy to understand- Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) RONALD BROS.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce^ AsJLStreet
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., '133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH: ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA : A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Phtlp & Co. Ltd,
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Phllp & Co. Ltd.
'Ringing for More!
yjjH.mli || ■-* |
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years' success.
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
—> PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
and management free.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney,
iSllenburgs Foods
THE LONE HANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
fT~Why Pay High Prices for Aerated Waters?
EckersleyVfear Aerated Water Machine
Produces Delicious Effervescing Crystal Soda Water at a cost of
less than One Penny per dozen; Lemonade, etc., which will delight
the palate of the connoisseur for less than Fourpence per dozen.
AUSTRALIA’S most astute hotelkeepers are keenly
aware that we are the only actual makers of
good Aerated Water Machines for hotels, and
have demonstrated their appreciation by installing
Ten of ECKERSLEY’S Machines
for Every One of other Makes•
We invite prospective buyers to view our works, where
they will see a competent staff of engineers and brass-
finishers engaged on machines and fountains in every
stage of construction.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES to
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON 8 DOUGLAS LTD., BRISBANE.
L. SAMSON 8 SONS, FREMANTLE.
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, SYDNEY.
hj
AS we manufacture and fit the component parts of
every machine we offer for sale, we can give a
thorough and complete guarantee that work-
manship is of the very best. No other machine has the
same efficiency, or is sold at anything approaching our
price; the reason being that all of the other so-called
aerating machines, now being industriously hawked
through Australia, pass through the hands of, at least,
two or three factors, jobbers or middlemen, each of
whom, in turn, adds from 15 to 20 per cent, on to the
actual manufacturer’s price of his profit. Order a Soda
Fountain now. See our new Hydraulic Carbonators.
"WRITE FOR CATALOGUES to
AERATED WATER MACHINE 8 SUPPLIES CO.,
N.Z. Express Co.’s Buildings, WELLINGTON, N.Z
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, MELBOURNE


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Accurate *22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70.
hj
lou see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rifle is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen -22 Short; twelve -22
Long, and twelve -22 Long Rifle R.F.
cartridges.
Your dealer can quote attractive prices.
Weight, 4*ib.
Insist on Stevens.
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. r
An Admission.
There are cheaper guns in the market than Pieper’s Bayards,
concern us no more than they help to sell our reliable
and warranted weapons.
They
BSS1? . -
«**'*'"*♦<
Can be had of all Store*
keepers, Gunsmiths and
Merchants.
Write to W. A. Cox, P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Leaflets, post free.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates,
U S jd exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America
a, ' d A th ® 9 hampions of the w orld, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue,
lells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, O.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
<§Js>
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others in QUALITY, FINISH,
DESIGN and WORKMANSHIP.
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Boot, with Superior Hand-Out Para Vulcanite'
Mouthpieces. Extra Heavy Sterling- Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
Price
eacl*
(Post Free).
ORDER NOW !
Mick Simmons Ltd.
The Best, House for Smokers’ Requisites,’ l j
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
"tOLCRYST”
IS
USEFUL
By purifying the blood, GOECIIYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and liannv
GOECRYST consists of Epsom Salts
S.enna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Free sample
sent by proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
W HOL F.SA L E AGENTS:—W.A.,*NeaIe, Con-
Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,”
V d « w d 'n aylor and Colled S e > Brisbane;
o' S , Elllott Bros -> Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OP PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
L.
GUARD YOUR HOME AGAINST DISEASE.
Use Hycol, JB-20 times stronger than Carbolic Acid, and
Non-poisonotts, GET IT NOW*
N.S.W. Agents: POTTS 8 CO., 163 George Street, Sydney.
THE MQST POWERFiT
8
I,
11
LATHES
H ' 1
o/ every ...
description
The illustration depicts the
Latest Type of HIGH-SPEED
LATHE, by DEAN SMITH
and GRACE, ENGLAND. It
is an exceptionally heavy tool
and can be relied on to obtain
maximum results from High-
Speed Steels. Extremely Pow-
erful, with an unflinching con-
trol of the work—withstanding
the heaviest cut without strain.
In addition to Dean Smith
and Grace, we represent such
High-Grade Lathe Makers as
H. W. Ward and Co.; Smith,
Barker and Willson; Ward,
Haggas and Smith; Jones and,
Lamson; Whitcombe Blaisdell;
Cincinnatti Lathe Co., and can
supply from Stock Tools for
economically producing the
smallest or largest amount of
any kind of metal work.
Full Equipment for Motor Garage and
Engineering Machine Shops in Stock.
A Regular Stock of Machine Tools includes Drilling
Machines, Planers, Shapers, Millers, Grinders, Key-
Way Cutters, Power Hack Saws, etc., and a full range of
SAGAR WOODWORKING MACHINES.
i •• •
Complete Catalogue Sent Gratis.
“ Established 52 Years ”
554=66 & 582-88 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and
AcmeMachineTool Co.
/ . ■ / . , 7 ';• :
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.


TiredO
Tired •
Tired at night ? Tired in the
morning? Tired all the time?
And sleep does not refresh
you? Nor rest bring you
comfort? Then something
is wrong. You need a tonic,
and a medicine that will puri-
fy your blood. Here it is—
Ayer's
Keep your bowels regular. Have
at least one free movement each
day. Ayer’s Pills will promptly cor-
rect any tendency to constipation.
Dose, just one pill, only one. Con-
sult your doctor about this.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AYEE & CO..
Dowell. Mase., TJ. S. A.
WAVERLEY PENS
« ’•^^SS^QfesaaglSiSy
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
riIHE Best Stories written by Australian
L Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
ELEV
hjh
Eley Cartridges
ensure —as far
as any cartridge
can ensure —
first-rate sport
and gratifying bags.
Among sportsmen and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these:
Eley ‘Achilles’
Deep shell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
EJcy 'Pluto’
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeles*
(33-grain) powder.
Eley ‘Zenith’ —Deep-shell, gastight,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.) powder.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by Ammunition Dealers &• Gunmakers
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY’
on the tube or shell of each cartridge!
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
mmwmmM
a
Hu
til
ill
m
m
m
fSIS
ss
m
>»
I
m
ul
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FR££ SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., I3EPT. ■*. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, 'N. S.W.
CORRECT YOUR FIGURE.
>3
THIN WOMEN
If you are flat-chested, thin,
run down and scraggly—even if
you never had a nicely-rounded
bosom, Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-food
will build you up and develop
your figure. Does your mirror
mock you? Flesh-food will re-
move the faults in your figure
by rounding out and developing
the deficient places. Put up in
Tablet form, it is easy to use
and pleasant to take, and, if
desired, may be taken secretly.
Taken under our directions, it
will work wonders for your ap-
pearance.
In many cases bust measure-
ments have been increased by
over ten inches, and the weight
over five pounds weekly. Other
cases have shown an increase in weight of even
a pound a day. The average bust increase desired
is about six inches, and is readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development
to the thousands of chronically thin women
who have despaired of ever possessing a pre-
sentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food
treatment that adds weight and permanent de-
velopment to attenuated women.
YOU CAN WEfGH WHAT YOU SHOULD
FAT PEOPLE
Excess fat injures your
■ health, impedes your move-
ments, and makes you the butt
of your unfeeling normal-
weight friends. People who
have been fat, and are now
reduced to normal, think other
fat people ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat in-
jure your health and endanger
your existence, it absolutely
• destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why do
you “FATfJIRR”
positively removes excess fat, and will restore
your spoiled figure to decent and pleasing pro-
portions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses im-
proves your breathing wonderfully, and the
course of treatment will cure you.
It is the only successful, and, at the same
time, harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been
discovered. Its efficacy has been undeniably de-
monstrated in thousands of successfully treated
cases. It is totally and absolutely non-poison-
ous, and can in no wise work any injury to the
general health; though it often reduces excess
weight by as much as a pound a day
I
WE SUPPLY FREE A SAMPLE OF EITHER <“ FLESH-FOOD ” or “ FATCURE.”
Send 2d. stamp, and say which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
“BUST” to thin people, “OBESITY” to fat ones: l Be sure to say which sample you want. _ No
matter where you live we can treat you successfully *by post. Write or call to-day. Confidential.
THE WATWORTH FALLIERE ASSN., 1103 Ash Sr., Sydney (AI802)
jh
11
**
Stockings & Socks.
The only all-wool hose with the soft-
ness of silk. And unshrinkable.
There are none like them for warmth, comfort, and wear.
The range of is so large that every individual taste is catered
for. Men’s, women’s and children’s: in black, tan and fancy art designs
and colours ■ in plain, ribbed, and lace: fully fashioned and seamless.
There i= a for every foot. And every foot should be clothed in
It promotes health and does not irritate the skin.
See to it. Have and nothing but .
Stockings, Socks, and Underwear, for Men. Ladies,
and Children. In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters,
Lnapersand Stores. 1 f your dealer does not stock ‘ <££L6QYl*
he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for 'Jason" booklet and name of nearest Agent to —
Aal7 JASON HOSIERY CO., LEICESTER, ENGLAND. <i>
jh
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
"it gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12, months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
ĥj
, Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days Fret
Trial. Best British-made MEAD
Coventry F/yers
Defiance Puncture-Kesisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
iB.S.A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
l Saddles, etc.
sdfsd
£ 3,tO to £Q
I Tyres and accessories at half, usual prices.
Write at once, usin£ sufficient postage, for
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 280, LIVERPOOL*
AGE, NX for Mn-AD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
The Standard Remedy wincn has oiitiived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER AIL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Rowland’s
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Restores it. Closeh
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect oi
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND'S.
67, Hatton Garden. London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
“L.INSEEI.) COMPOUND” for Coughs an.
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Song of Bunker Chow.
The 19 Chinese stowaways, discovered on the steamer
Empire, received a terrible knocking about during
the recent gale. —News item.
The wind pipes shrill ’neath a low’ring sky ;
The wet cliffs tremble, the sprays blow high ;
Hove-to in the gale the steamers lie.
See the “stand-off” signals flying!
The flags are stiff in the savage squalls ;
Around the station the fine rain falls,
Arid a buzzing siren whisp'ring calls »
Like a sea-thing slowly dying.
The smoking chargers the mad gusts ride,
Rear up and paw at a captain’s pride;
Each iron thing staggers from side to side
And out of the combat -lunges ;
A wave sweeps up like a trembling hill,
A burst of white and the well-decks fill;
A sickly roll I—but she’s floating still !
Then down in the trough she plunges.
Out there in cabins and cold saloons
Are voyagers begging of all God’s boons,
In accents sad as the deep bassoon’s,
The gift of a death-bed stable;
And further down, 'neath the cabin floor,
Amongst the coal are a ghostly score,
Who jabber madly, and skid, and roar
In a Chow-made Pit of Babel.
Would pleasure brighten the Captain’s brow,
When shrill winds whistle and great ships bow,
If he knew Two Thousand Pounds of Chow
Were down in the bunkers batching?
Would he like to listen at each stray hole
To the sliding roar and crash of coal,
And the whines and squeaks of each lost soul
At Australia’s front door scratching?
When wind is shaking the window-pane,
And pelting it with the icy rain,
When the good house timbers creak and strain,
And a fearful sea is running,
I wake and wonder how fares the Chow,
Who sits and shrieks in the bunkers now!
Oh! the China boats they dive and bow,
And the coal is simply stunning!
N - s - w -
KODAK.
Three Cities.
BRISBANE.
Within her lotus bower,
Heavy with many an over-scented flower,
Beneath a feathery Cocos palm she lies,
Watching the lazy painted butterflies
Flutter about her, settle, pause and whirl
In mail of green, vermilion, gold and pearl.
Her dusky rounded breasts, delicious pair,
Half-drowned beneath the black wealth of her hair,
Peep out their rosy apples, playing spy
On all the garden’s scented panoply.
Hibiscus flowers are throning her around,
And strew with crimson petals all the ground
For her delighting. One by one she takes
And weaves them into garlands, leans and breaks
Some leafage to relieve their hue’s excess,
Till all is to her liking; halts to press
Some ruffled petal with her slumbrous lips,
Then flings her hair back, rises up and slips
The crimson crown upon her.
So was she
When all my heart she took in dreamy feel
SYDNEY.
Her lusty lover and lord, the Sun,
Well has he wooed her to-day and won„
Who, sprawling there in delicious ease,
Listens the witchery of the breeze,
Murmurous through the slumbering trees.
The waters, lapping in bay and cove,
Croon her a lullaby of love,
As, smiling and sighing in turn, she seems
The sweeter a wanton, dreaming her dreams.
To-morrow again her lord will press
Those amorous limbs in hot caress,
Gladly compliant to his offence;
Till, roused from her dreamy indolence,
She mingles with him in a flood of sense,
Spent, but happy to hear him tell
The morrow again he will love her well.
Then tenderly smiles at the touch of his lips
As off" to''his western couch he slips.
But should he his coming long delay
And all is sullen on cove and bay,
She’ll wrap herself in her scented hair,
With naught to console her until she hear
The wheels of his chariot rumbling near.
Then up will she leap to meet her lord,
Yielding to him her glories stored
Against his coming, until she be
Steeped in delicious ecstasy.
ADELAIDE.
A prim little damsel, neat and sweet,
Trips down the glaring lazy street,
Dressed so demurely, all in white,
Looking to neither left nor right:
“You know how people talk!” she thinks.
A moment later the little minx,
Sipping her cup of afternoon tea,
With mirrors round and none to sec,
Smooths her collar, adjusts her hat,
And home she hies her, pitter-pat-pat!
O maid demure! I marvelled oft
If ever you your staidness doffed ;
But when I came to know you well,
Oh, Holy Smoke —but I mustn’t tell! ! !
N.s.w.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
Dawn Song.
MAORILAND.
The night is deep
And the moon swings low,
The world’s asleep,
And the grave clouds go
Past the quiet stars above. Below
My heart is full of music, though
The world’s asleep.
The flush of day
Tips the hills with gold.
You bid me stay,
Though my tale is told
And my lips are bold,
And the dawn strikes c01d,..
You bid. me stay !
PRANK MORTON.


THE HUB
218-222
OF NEWTOWN
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
SPECIAL No. I.—Australian Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully finished,
large double-bed size, weighing 71b., for 19/11
SPECIAL No. 2.—Australian All-Wool Blanket, extra large size; the best grey Blanket manufac-
tured for the price, weight 7flb 16/11
SPECIAL No. 3. —-Heavy English Whitney Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing_74lb.,
for the double-bed size, .. 15/11
SPECIAL No. 4.—An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grey English-made Blanket, double-
bed size, weighing 71b., for 10/6
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
“MY LADY’’ SHOE. —For dress and walking wear, is made of fine patent colt-skin, with tops of
dull velvet, calf inlaid. This Shoe has a flexible, sewed extending sole and a comfortable
Cuban Heel. The giant, fast-colored eyelets, and the wide silk laces add much to the general
attractiveness. This Shoe is modelled on a new toe-shape, this season’s style. A grand fitter ;
sizes 2 to 7. Price 14 / 9
A
2
he
T
at
CO
m
<
o
rf UB
rv
?VoNt^
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot; with occasional applications of Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, sto 10. Price 12/6
Our Motto —
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
£
■
}}? t?< (■/ 'J/?aA f! :
/Gt //(/I# ,Q nU>A /r! s" /
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4(1. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
am
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THe Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
“BOOMERANG GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
“PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1 /-, post free.
“ ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells,
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering hitn inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “ just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
aw
*3l
ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
RAM
RIFE
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, Irrigation,Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction truaranteed. Over 7000in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile— Write for Free Plans and Book.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
I
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Eotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l,
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
T
(,v>
0
//
ar
w
“Made
R i g' ht
to
Run
Right”
PERDRIAU
Motor Tyres
cut down the cost of motoring' by giving
long'er service with fewer repair bills.
Motorists are invited to inspect these tyres.
Price List and full details free on request.
PERDRIAU
Rubber Co., Lt d.,
"THE BEST HOUSE FOR ALL RUBBER GOODS,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; 105 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
.('AA/n/A,
AA A A A A A A „ ,
•AAA A&CCSCZ
m’* w.Vjfl
*A A A A f’A A A
'*AA AAAA f AA'
A A/' A A A> A f//'
»AA A A A A A A A A'
A A A/ Af*
*AA A A r A A aV‘
>AAA a aV a a.‘«
ft* A A AfAA AfY
AAA A A f > A A *r*
*/A AV/
&\vav//a7
o\
r
\
i l
if
lo’tJU'V
s '
0«e»
All over Australia thousands of up-to-date people
are now making their own soda-water at home in a
SPARKLET
SYPHON.
** The Soda Fountain on a Tea-Tray.**
If you are tired of paying out good money for
“ made” soda-water, with its lumber of empty
and broken bottles, why not try the
“SPARKLET 99 way?
With a “SPARKLET” Syphon you can make
absolutely pure aerated water instantly at a cost of
one penny a pint. It is less trouble than making a
pot of tea—-a child can do it.
Ask your Storekeeper. Here are the Prices:—
C-SYPHON, 0/0 each.
B-SYPHON, 4/- „
C-BULBS 2/3 doz.
B-BULBS 1/6 „
READ & CAMPBELL, LTD., Importers, 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 33.—N0. 1694.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 1912.
Pkich Go.
THE INADEQUATE FENCE.
Mr. Hughes, Attorney-General of Australia, says he has learned that the United States Meat Trust has purchased land and made satisfactory arrangements with some stockowners
to carry on business. “The Government,” he adds, “cannot do anything in the matter in the present state of the law.”
THE INADEQUATELY-ARMED PERSON: “Wh-s-s-s-sh!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosinan, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 21.4
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. . . . . 0 16 6
Quarterly . . .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no ccse be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send tlierh to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
f used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form, of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications, will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will he returned, or vre* n "ved.
unless these conditions are observed. Whr - MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
aerstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
fiirther, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black anti White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid, for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiie Bulletin is forwarded direct to ‘agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at j/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada.' —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., jjl Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port
Said.
llong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
ti'iin. x ljin., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Bates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, Neiv
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, lOoz. hd.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, lOoz. Id.- — otherwise, Boz., Id., and Bjoz. to
lOoz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id.,
and id. each, additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 1912.
TEMPORARY FINANCE.
The N.S.W. State Government secured
tnree months’ supply in a spare moment last
week, at a rate which suggests that it in-
tends the year’s expenditure to be well over
£20,000,000 —possibly up to £25,000,000. The
loan expenditure for the 12 months just
ended was a record even for the thriftless Ma
State, and there are signs and wonders and
indications that the loan outgoings for the
present year are intended to be on a still
larger scale. As to where the money will
come from there is little evidence, but there
are many misgivings, The Ma State has
put up the rate of interest in what used to
be the Post Office Savings Bank by i per
cent., in order to attract more funds, and is
thus running a notable sprint with the new
Commonwealth Bank. It was lately driven
to admit that loose cash was becoming so
tight in the local market that it could no
longer do its borrowings in Sydney as of old,
so it raised a couple of millions in Condon
on a one-year I O U, and on terms which sug-
gested that it was close up against the dead
wall of necessity. Now the Australian Gov-
ernment has lent N.S.W. a further £300,000
to go on with, out of the Australian notes
if serve, which about ends all visible possi-
bilities from that source for a long while to
come. This is a short-dated loan, like others
obtained in the same Quarter. And when one
considers the short-dated loans that will fall
due almost as soon as raised; the old, long-
dated loans, which are falling due in fairly
large quantities, and the fact that N.S.W.
and Queensland both want to float new loans
on a bigger scale than they ever did before, if
the present boom is to be kept going, it is
evident that complications may arise. The
extreme difficulty with which Queensland and
Maoriland have lately raised the wind in
John Bull’s money market constitutes fair
warning that there is very little to be done
there nowadays, except on rather costly
terms. The unprecedented upheaval of im-
ports, under a tariff which was fairly good
some years ago, but which the recent general
rise in wages has made quite inefficient, was
the beginning of the trouble. Then the tem-
porary drought and the fall in prices re-
duced the value of exports. The quantity of
exports was also reduced, because a very
large number of men who would, in the
ordinary course of events, have been supply-
ing material for sale in foreign markets,
were attracted away to the job of building
public works—often rather unpromising pub-
lic works—paid for out of loan money. So the
gold export increased enormously f b fill the
gap, while the production of gold was dimin-
ishing very heavily, and the local market
grew more and more bare of the only circu-
lating medium which speaks all languages.
Just as the loan boom was going its strongest
it practically fell down at a moment’s notice,
as one might say, and broke its neck, so to
speak. Wherefore, it would be no great
exaggeration to say that it may possibly be
a corpse, or thereabouts.
* * . * *
Theoretically, when the various Australian
Governments can’t get money locally, they
have merely to borrow in England. This is
theoretical, but it isn’t practical. Though
money has been pouring out of Australia of
late, i£ an almost unprecedented fashion,
there is no evidence that J. Bull has been
getting the money. In fact, he seems to
have more trouble on his hands just now
than cash. His consols have fallen to a
point that they hadn’t reached for SI) years.
The decline is so great that the British Sav-
ings Banks have lost about £40,000,000
through the depreciation of their stock of
Government securities, and, but for the fact
that they have the State guarantee behind
them, they would have had, ere this, to file
their schedule. Consols are reckoned about
the most respectable old security on earth.
They have never been discredited by sus-
picion, repudiation, or the payment of 55., or
even 17s. 6d., in the £. Yet at the present
figure they stand for £3 7s. 9d. per cent,
interest. Every State in Australia has bor-
rowed, at one time or another, on much bet-
ter terms than these, and deeply-indebted
Westralia, paying £3 Bs. 4d. per cent, as an
average on its entire debt, is actually almost
on a level with the British Government. The
simple explanation seems to be that Bull
has been on a financial jag, just as we have,
and when Bull is expected to support, not
only his own public drunk, but ours as well,
a great deal too much is asked of him. If he
finds himself unable to finance the double
burden, he will probably look after his own
financial orgy, and let ours go. And that
will be very bad for Australia’s borrowing
Governments, unless they contrive to stop
the outflow of gold in exchange for imported
goods, and get back to a position in which
they will be able to finance their own orgy.
Britain doesn’t make additions these days
to its recognised and official public debt—its
consolidated annuities or consols —for the
sufficient reason that, if it did so, it would
have to issue the new securities at about £7O,
and the discredit would be too great. Rather,
it devotes its surpluses to buying up and ex-
tinguishing the depreciated securities. Mean-
while, the country has “saved its face” by
issuing a multitude of small miscellaneous
securities at higher rates of interest. And
its public works expenditure (apart from
railways and canals, which are in the hands
of Private Enterprise) are mostly attended
to by )ocal bodies, which often borrow nowa-
days at high rates —the Port of London
Authority has raised money at 4 per cent.—
and often spend none too wisely. The total
British debt —national and local—is esti-
mated to have increased by about £600,000,000
since the beginning of the present century.
The wholly unproductive local debt of Eng-
land and Wales—the writer has no figures
at hand for Ireland and Scotland—has grown
by about £100,000,000 since the vear 1000.
So J. Bull has his own anxieties to deal
with. The misfortune is that he is
pushed for money at the same time as
ourselves. The gold we have lost mav have
gone to France, or Germany, or the United
States, or partly to one and partly to an-
other, but apparently our father Bull hasn’t
got it. •
* ! * * *
The Tory Preetrade press, as might be
expected, seizes the opportunity to throw a
brick at Australian democratic legislation.
This, for instance, was the view which the
S. M. Herald professed to take of the mat-
ter in an article headed “Temporary Sup-
ply” (25/7/T2) :
Already indications of trouble have given the State
Treasurers much anxiety. Recent loans have not
been successful in London, and the underwriters are
wondering how far they are likely to be involved with
Australian stock. This is due very largely to a
feeling of resentment in the old country at dis-
criminating taxation. The absentee tax. jor instance,
has roused much indignation among those who are
helping substantially in the development of this con-
tinent, though domiciled in Great Britain; and the
question of Empire is being discussed from a stand-
point not at all favorable to us as a Dominion sup-
posed to be nroud of the Imperial tie. It is not now
a question of dealing with men who have made great
sums of money in Australia, but who decline to
spend it hero. What has to be considered is the diffi-
culty into which New South Wales is being cast at a
critical period in her history by the action of those
who symnathise with absentees, and who are button-
ing up their pockets just when it is essential that
they should be emptying them.
It is. of course, the view which a Freetrade
and Tory paper would put forward. But it
isn’t the fury which has been aroused by
the Australian absentee tax which has made
the bottom fall out of the British Govern-
ment’s own special gilt-edged security. Our
troubles and those of the old man in London
have arrived at the same moment, and as a
mere matter of figures his are quite as bad
as ours. His advantage lies in the fact that
he has no great mass of debts falling due at
a fixed date; and that his liabilities are
local, whereas a great part of ours are for-
eign. Australia has to go holding out its
hat to Bull. Bull, at the worst, has only
to hold out his hat to himself.
It is consoling to recall the fact that,
however bad things may appear, Australia
has always pulled through its troubles and
avoided public insolvency. On the other
hand, the luck doesn’t last for ever, and
everybody dies one time or another. The
main elements of the situation are these:
Australia has never owed so much money
before, so it may be inferred that it was
neyer before so close to the tail-end of its
credit. (Presumably, the more that has
been borrowed, the less there remains to bor-
row.) It has never before had so many old
loans falling due in a short space of time.
It has never before wanted so many new
loans in a short space of time, for it has
neyer, at any previous date, tried to run
quite so vast a boom. It has never before
imported such a mass of foreign goods. It
has never before rushed up its export of
gold to pay for foreign goods in such a
sudden and heroic fashion. And it has not
once, since 1854, seen its output of gold de-
creasing so rapidly, which means that the
candle has, within the last few months, been
burned at both ends, a record addition to
the demand being accompanied by a record
islump in the supply. That is the debtor’s
side of the case. As regards the creditor,
our valued parent Bull has not, for 89
years, seen his own gilt-edged securities so
low. He has never before owed so much
money, or been so heavily loaded with taxes,
or had so gigantic a shortage in his Savings
Bank funds, or had so big an aggregate
debt—national and municipal. He has never
paid so much for his bloated armaments,
and not since the days of Napoleon I. has
he had so bad a scare re possible invasion.
He has never before seen so many people
leaving his country, or been so dependent
on foreign nations for his food, or found
himself so definitely relegated to third place
among the world’s manufacturing communi-
ties, or had such extensive strikes, or had so
many windows broken by Suffragettes.
! urthermore, he has never had a humble
Australian or ojther relative, with a look of
dog-like fidelity in his eye, clamoring on his
doormat for so much new loan money, or
for the renewal of so many old loans. So it
may be alleged with some reason that the
situation is unusual, or is going very shortly
to be unusual.
* * * *
Yet it is difficult to see that there is much
to be done in the way of reform or repair
unless a lot of the old wooden gods are
thrown overboard, and there is great re-
luctance to part with these old gods: Con-
sider the case of N.S.W.: It has the largest
debt of all the States. It is struggling
hardest after new borrowings. It supplies,
both to the Australian Liberal party and
the Australian Labor party, the largest con-
tingent of those politicians who believe in
low tariff, huge imports, and a great out-
flow of money to pay for the imports—that
outflow which is making it impossible to
raise loans in Australia. It possesses the
most strenuous high wage Government in
Australia, and when high wages and a low
tariff come together things are bound to
happen. It adheres hard and fast to the
policy of dragging all possible trade and
population to Sydney, in consequence of
which that private-landlord-owned city has
overgrown its means of communication,
-this capital of a State with about five per-
sons to the square mile has acquired a
traffic problem worthy of the Capital of a
State with 100 people per square mile.
Therefore N.S.W. is faced with a very large
bill (to be liquidated out of the loans which
are so difficult to get) for underground rail-
ways, bridges and tunnels. It can’t realise
the great profits that would accrue through
the establishment of State-owned cities at
such neglected deep-water outlets as Two-
fold Bay and. Port Stephens, because the
congestion policy and the assumed interests
of Sydney and of the private landlords of
Sydney forbid. It can’t make much out of
the lands in the Far North anu Far South,
because to do that it would have to open up
new ports and break away from the Sydney
fetich. It has to build absurdly long rail-
ways at great cost, and to work absurdly
long railways at an absurd loss, in ordm- to
drag everything to Sydney. For a State
which.has got the congestion disease and
the Foreign-trade disease and the State
I rights disease badly, there is really no re-'
source save to keep the loan boom going as
long as possible, and on almost any pos-
sible conditions. And Queensland, which
represents the other important section of
the loan boom, has to build its so-called
transcontinental line in order to express its
anger and cussedness against the proposed
lederal railway from Port Augusta to Port
Darwin. Therefore, Queensland also, it
would seem, must continue its wild career
in the interests ’of State Frights.
These are strenuous times, but the main
features of the case—the stupendous loan
revel, the importing revel, the outflow of
gold,, the falling off in the local gold pro-
Auction, the practical stoppage in local loan
supplies, and the comparative failure of the
British loan market, combined with the drop-
ping of the bottom out of Britain’s his-
torical public security—have all arrived
very suddenly. It will be some little time
before the effect is wholly manifest. Still,
if events keep moving for a few more
months along the present lines the results
should be _ interesting. It should be worth
while to sit up a't night and watch them.
THE BOY WHO MUST NOT WORK.
A GOOD many years ago it happened, in a
remote country, where there were no indus-
trial laws or compulsory education laws,
that child labor in factories became, for a
little while, a serious problem. In fact, it
became a temporary horror. Children started
as industrial workers at the age of live years
or thereabouts, and toiled for enormously
long hours at low wages, while their parents
were unemployed. It is all a matter of
ancient history—as dead and buried as the
Pope’s scheme for seizing Londonderry, or
the material Hell, or the horned and tailed
devil who goes about like a roaring lion,
chewing those he can devour. Nowadays, in
a country like Australia, where comnulsory
schooling lasts till the patient reaches the
age of 13 or 14, and there are practically no
child workers except on cow farms,
the supply of apprentices is insufficient
to meet the demand, and not enough
to - replace the old man when he goes
to his great, reward. There is no need for
restriction, and the idea that* the hoy of 15
or so is an enemy to industry, a curse and a
public danger, is as out of date as the armor
which the old crusaders wore when they
clubbed the enemy in Palestine. Neverthe-
less, the dread of the rising generation sur-
vives, and one of the quaintest developments
of trades unionism is the desire to restrict the
number of apprentices—just as if the world
was full of possible apprentices. It is
really just as. necessary to restrict the
domestic servant or the bunyip, who are both
scarce at present. With which exordium
The Bulletin prints one clause of a pro-
posed agreement, as regards compositors,
which has been submitted to it:—
Apprentices. —That the office shall be entitled to
one apprentice for every seven journeymen com-
positors permanently employed, such apprentices shall
serve for a period of not less than six years, and shall
receive 12s. 6d. per week for the first year, 17s. Gd.
second year, 225. 6d. tnird year, 30s. fourth year, 40s
fifth year, and 50s. sixth year. Apprentices shall
not operate the linotype until the last two years of
their apprenticeship, and may permanently operate
the linotype during the last year only of their ap-
prenticeship. A week’s work to consist of not more
than 44 hours.
That proposal, put forward apparently
in all good faith, shows how the old fear
of being swamped by child labor lingers, just
as if there was no compulsory schooling,
and the miserable infant still started work
at the age of five years. It is suggested that
there shall be one apprentice for seven per-
manently-employed journeymen. Thus, an
office with six regular compositors would
have no apprentice. One in which the work
was spasmodic, so that the average number
of employees was 10 or 11, of whom only six
were regular hands, would also have no
apprentice. One with 13 regular employees
would have a single apprentice, it being a
man short of the Staff which qualified it to
have two. Probably it would be a lavish
estimate to assume that, under such an
arrangement, there would be one apprentice
all round to every 10 journeymen. But
even assuming that every printing office had
an exact seven or 14 or 21 or 28 grown-up
experts, and that there was an apprentice to
each seven, and that the apprentice never
came to a premature death, the position
would be interesting.
* '•* * *
In the first place, there must be only
one son of working age lo every seven com-
positors. If there were two sons one would
ha,Ve to but I into some other occupation,
and the other occupation would have just
as good a right to preserve the proportion
of one learner to seven qualified men as the
printing trade. Or else : the other son would
have to be a drunken loafer, and a curse to
the community. In fairness, every seven
men, in every skilled. or unskilled occupa-
tion, should, only have onq son of working
age among them. And the old man would
have to stick at his job for 42 yehrs after
he finished bis apprenticeship. He must do
that, even if Australia never expanded at
all —even if it acquired no more
population, And raised no more litera-
ture, and produced no more papers or
books of pamphlets, and grew no more job
printers. Assuming that a boy was appren-
ticed at the age of 15, and became a full-
blown expert at the age of 21. he would re-
quire to toil capably and persistently till he
reached the age of 63; merely in order to
keep up the existing supply of workers. Any
deaths, disablements or retirements that
happened before that age would reduce the
supply, yet deaths, disablements and
retirements must needs be numerous.
It is a lamentable fact that, even in this
splendidly healthy country, the average
length of life is not 63 years, or anything
like it. And even if it were, no healthy-
minded person wants to wprk till the last
day of his life, and take Ills tombstone to
the office with him when lie- sees* Death
staring him in the face, so as to be pre-
pared for eventualities. Out of the
2,313,035 male citizens of Australia enum-
erated at last census, not many more than
110,000 had reached their 63rd year. In
fact, the slump began between the ages of
30 and 34, and between the ages of 55 and
50 the falling away in the number of sur-
vivors was terrible.
On the basis of one learner to seven
grown-up experts all industries must gradu-
ally die out. And either the birthrate must
be squashed, in which case the nation
will also die out, or else the great majority
of the boys must lean up against posts in
the streets while the old man is battling for
the family crust. To put the matter into
figures, there were in Australia, at the cen-
sus of 1911, about 310,000 males aged be-
tween. 15 and 21, which is about the appren-
ticeship age. And there were about three
times that number who were over 21 yet not
quite due for the old-age ■ pension, though
many of them were doubtless more or less
invalided, or had more or less given up active
work. When lliere are only three pos-
sible adult workers to one possible learner
there isn’t much hope of keeping industries
alive, to say nothing of providing for their
expansion, if only one learner is allowed to
seven adult workers.
* * * *
Something might also be said of the con-
dition of the wretched youth who is to be
apprenticed for “not less than six years,”
but is to spend the whole of the first four
years in sweeping the floor and running
errands, and isn’t to begin learning his
trade till the fifth year. That proviso re-
presents in full the idea that a boy is a
danger, and a curse, and an enemy to the
old man. The right of the unemployed to
demand that the State shall find them work
is often heard of, yet if the people who put
forward that plea also demand that most of
the rising generation shall not be allowed
to learn how to work the situation becomes
complicated. But, as already mentioned, the
trouble is merely a tradition, and a survival
from other days and other circumstances.
It dates from the period of child labor in
English factories. The Australian compul-
sory education system has abolished all pos-
sibility of the son becoming a. dangerous
competitor of the father, except in the
accursed cow industry, and even there he is
generally the father’s slave rather than his
competitor. The cow industry is the only
one nowadays where youthful labor requires
much regulation, and there regulation is re-
quired very badly.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Enter the Meat Trust.
It was definitely announced last week that
‘ the American Beef Trust had secured 130
acres of superb country on the Brisbane
River, near Queensport,” and that it was
erecting there “the largest and most up-to-
date meat-exporting depot that Australia
has yet known.” Whereupon the Melbourne
correspondent of one of the Sydney dailies
wrote: —
“Abject terror” describes the feeling of the Aus-
tralian meat exporters since the American Beef
Trust has commenced its operations in Australia.
According to a very high authority in the city,
Federal Ministers have been reviewing Federal legis-
lation in order to ascertain if any existing law will
enable them to prevent the Trust gaining control of
the meat supplies of Australia.
So far they have failed to discover any Act which
will give them the power.
It was a sloppy way of putting it, but. it
gave a fair general idea of a position which
contains all the elements of a tragedy. The
American Beef Trust, so-called, is in reality
a Meat Trust. It deals in every conceivable
variety of flesh, including mutton. It repre-
sents an amalgamation of the vast busi-
nesses of Hammonds, Armours, Libbys,
Swift, Morris, Sulzbergers and others,
and has a capital of £40,000,000 sterling.
It takes no heed of tariffs or boundaries, and
spreads over half a dozen countries. It
realised early that the world’s population is
increasing much faster than the world’s food
supply, and that a huge corporation which
got there first might corner the meat of the
globe. It resolved to be huge and to get
there first. It fixes the price of meat, day
by day, in Chicago and elsewhere at its own
unsavory will, and the consumer has to pay
up and look as cheerful as he can. There are
practically no auction sales of Cattle any-
where in the States, and the erstwhile
dealers have become mere agents. The
Trust is supreme in Argentina. In fact the
only great meat-producing country on earth
in which it is not supreme at the present
time is Australia. As this paper pointed
out, over a year ago, when the Beef Trust
first started sparring for an opening in the
Commonwealth, there is considerably more
in its operations than meets the casual or
superficial eye. What it is aiming at is the
control of the meat-supply of the United
Kingdom. That country is the world’s
great meat importer. It depends more en-
tirely upon imported meat than any other
place of account. It is a place worth
capturing, and the simple way to do that is
to capture the sources of supply. Most of
them are already in the Trust’s hands, but
that body is a tidy and symmetrical octopus
and wants the lot. Besides, though its pre-
sent profits are immense, it hates to think
that there may be an odd 2d. that it has
missed. When the institution carries its
point the unhappy Briton will be faced with
the terrific problem or job of paying a Yan-
kee meat-bill on a Freetrade wage-basis.
The result may be that the million Bri-
tishers who are chronically on the verge of
starvation; and the further _five millions
who don’t earn more than 25s. per week,
year in year out; and the further five mil-
lions who do a little better, financially, and
yet walk ever hand in hand with indigence,
will take the thing in a philosophic spirit
and eat grass or some other vegetarian fare.
On the other hand, these people may be
maddened at the irretrievable loss of the
sustenance which their national song and
story have assured them for centuries is
their inalienable right, and in their fury it
is conceivable that they may rise up and set
fire to Buckingham Palace, execute the
blameless George V. and his consort, refuse
to pay the taxes requisite to build 10 battle-
ships to Germany’s six, and in the final up-
shot tear down the Empire upon their heads
in a condition of chaos and ruin. Such
tragedies have happened, for less serious
causes, all through history. Australia is
fairly creeping with people who call them-
selves Imperialists; and the strong suit of
every one of them is Devotion to the Mother-
land. An opportunity now offers to prove
that devotion in a substantial fashion. As
the newspaper paragraph above quoted re-
marks : “Federal Ministers.... have failed
to discover any Act which will enable them
to prevent the Trust gaining control of the
meat-supplies of Australia.” There is only
one way in which such a concern can be
effectively scotched, and that is by the
people of Australia so voting at the coming
Referendum as to give the Australian Par-
liament the right to say what is and what
is not an injurious Trust, and in the event
of its identifying one of t-he latter sort, to
order its dissolution. The allegedly dis-
loyal Laborites are willing to do their share
in this genuinely Imperialistic work. What
is. the matter with the frothy Liberal “Loy-
alists” lining up beside them?
♦
Sydney’s Most Desperate Problem.
“Henri Singemoine’s” View of the Case:
The N.S.W. Government, like so many other pre-
ceding Governments, has announced in a firm tone
of voice its intention of embarking, presently, on
the construction of a North Shore bridge, and an
underground railway system that will bring Sydney
abreast of the times as regards transport facilities.
If a general election weren’t pending; if so many
other Governments hadn’t talked in a similar strain,
and wound up by doing nothing; if the McGowen
Administration wasn’t heavily committed already in
the matter of finance; and if there were no such
matters to consider as the exigencies of party gov-
ernment, I might delude myself with fond dreams to
the extent of believing that, before I go completely
bald, and enter on the doddering period of life’s fitful
struggle, I may know the joy of riding home in a
sitting posture after the day’s toff. instead of having
to accomplish the journev on a crowded tram-step, in
imminent peril of my life. As things are, I make
bold to risk a prophecy or two.
The bridge and underground proposals having been
ventilated sufficiently to stir the Sydney press to a
pass’on of enthusiasm will be gently but very reso-
lutely dropped. When the elections transpire in
December, or earlier, these matters will not be men-
tioned anywhere save in a few North Sydney centres,
and in the city constituencies which are immediately
concerned to bring about their accomplshment. Can-
didates for the political favors of Outback seats
will, on being challenged, hotly deny that under-
ground railways and a bridge are intended to be
built by their crowd, and they will denounce these
schemes as samples of wild extravagance, and as
flamine- iniustices to the long-s-’ffering person upon
the soil —just as C. G. Wade did in the early part
of this year, in an endeavor to enthuse an audience
which he was addressing in the Back of Beyond. As
p-h alternative to city railways and a North Shore
Bridge, up-country orators will advocate, as one
gas-bag, that the two or three millions requisite for
siich works shall be spent on more railways for the
nrimarv producer. Wade did this the other dav,
according to the sworn statements of a reoutable
country reporter and half a dozen morally stainless
bucolics or backblockers, and the smaller State poli-
ticians —if there are any smaller than Wade —may
be relied on to follow suit.
Whichever party wins, whether Labor or Liberal,
it will inevitably find itself composed of seven or
eight city members who are fairly lusting to see two
or five or 10 or 20 millions sterling borrowed with-
out a moment s delay, for the purpose of building
the bridge and tunnelling the tubes; and it will also
comprise 40 or 50 country members who are irre-
vocably pledged to raise Gehenna before they agree
to any such ventures. A couple of years will pass
more or less peacefully, and then, another general
election being imminent, the Government of the day,
hounded to action bv the city press, will send to
England, or Rome (U.S.A.), or Mecca, or Bagdad, or
any oth?r old spot, and order out a “traffic expert.
He will regard Sydney narrowly, and remark, in the
tone of voice employed by one to whom a bright new
thought has suddenly occurred, that what the city
needs is a system of underground railways and a
North Shore bridge. Whereupon the farce or tragedy
(the reader may regard it either way, according to
whether he habitually frequents the metropolis or
no + > will be resumed again de v»vo. _ _
The factor which has been the death of a civilised
city transit scheme in the past, and is likely to go
on being the death of it for all time, is,, of course,
that most imbecile of fetiches, Party Government.
The country constituencies can’t see why they should
incur liabilities with the obiect of advantaging Syd-
ney, and so long as they look at things that way the
politicians may be relied on to encourage them, with
the result that nothing will be done.
The real and only answer to a problem which has
been acute for the past five years, and which is
shortly going to become so ramnantly urgent that,
unless it is solved, something will surely burst, is
the speedy creation of a Greater Sydney, and the
undertaking of these essentially civic jobs by a muni-
cipal Parliament. Logically, Sydney has no more
right to expect the State to build and run its tubes
and bridges than it has to expect the same authority
to administer its electric light plant. New York,
Paris and London have all made successes, financial
and otherwise, of their underground systems. Till
recently there was some doubt as to whether one of
the London underground cos. was in a sound position.
However, a couple of months ago, the financial writer
of London Truth was able to say
“The public of Greater London is served, above
and below ground, in a manner that can only be
described as lavish, and the public in return has been
lavish in its patronage. This observation brings me
to the real task I have in hand —namely, to attempt
to show in figures what the ’Bus-Tube Combine is
accomplishing at the present time, with a view to
emphasising the desirability of the Underground
Electric Company’s fixed charge stocks as invest-
ments.”
And, after quoting the figures of the concern, he
wound up:—
“The underground electric stock yields fully 5 per
cent., and it would be difficult to find a stock better
secured so: far as income is concerned to give the
yield.”
In brief, there doesn’t appear even to be the slender
justification of monetary risk to excuse the neglect
of this frantically-needed Sydney service. But Sydney
will have to undertake it, for as long as politicians
are driven to manoeuvre for office, no State adminis-
tration will.
An Absurd Offence.
The legal offence known as “collusion,” the
thing which prevents the granting of so many
divorces, and invalidates so many others just
when they look good and promising, was given
a bad showing-up in England last month. In
fact, it was publicly reduced to the absuidity
which it is. The encouraging affair occurred
in the undefended suit of Pears v. Pears.
The evidence showed that the petitioner, Mrs.
Pears, had married Joseph Pears in 1886.
A year or so later she was consigned to a
home for inebriates. The husband fell in
love with one Ellen Nash, and took
her to live with him. The petitioner, Mrs.
Pears, does not seem to have worried unduly
about the matter. She identified herself
with the missionary business in Leeds, on
emergence from the Drink Home, and for 20
years left Joseph and Ellen to their own
devices. Then a clergyman put it to her
that it would be a gracious and kindly act
on her part if she divorced Pears, and so
gave him a chance to make “an honest
woman” of Nash, and regulate the anom-
alous position of his family. She agreed,
and was able to place before the President
of the Divorce Division, a collection of evi-
dence sufficient, under normal circumstances,
to ensure the dissolution of any marriage.
There was one haw in her case, and one only.
It consisted in the fact that she had no ill-
will towards her husband (due, probably, to
her realisation that his misconduct had
been largely brought about by her jam-
borees), and to the further fact that
she wanted him to re-mam'. If she had
been furious with her injured husband, and
anxious to trail his name in the mud. and
compass his financial and social ruin—if she
had desired to blast the character of his
paramour and proclaim to the world that the
offspring of the pair were bastards —the
Court would have beamed on her annrov-
ingly, and presently handed her what would
amount to an official certificate that all these
things were true. As it was, the President
said that: —
Though the allegations in the petition had been
proved, vet he did not think that the petitioner was
entitled 'to relief, since she did not want it for her-
self. He thought it was obviously a case directly
opposite to the principle the Court acted on, as it
was a case brought to relieve the guilty person.
Though he sympathised with the woman, he must
act according to judicial principles. He concluded
that the woman had not brought the petition to pro-
tect herself, and, therefore, he must refuse to exer-
cise his discretion on her behalf.
Marriage is the only legal contract or bond
which is rendered irrefragable by the mere
fact that both the parties wish to be freed
from it. The judicial principle which lays
it down that one or more parties to the suit
must at least appear to be unwilling that it
should be granted does nothing for the cause
of morality. One result—as witness the
Pears case —is that peonle are driven to
live in what is known as “open shame,” who
would otherwise get comfortably into line
with the rest of Society. Another result is
that those who are determined, to separate
are driven frequently to deception and per-
jury. Those who are too conscientious or
nervous to attempt to hoodwink Justice,
battle on in a relationship. which means
misery to themselves and serious difficulties
for their children. In this naper’s opinion
one of the changes for which the time is more
than ripe has to do with the wiping-out of
“collusion” as a bar to divorce. When a
citizen commits a series of thefts the Law
doesn’t enter into the psychology of the busi-
ness and inquire why he took the goods :it
simply passes him or her a term of gaol.
Similarly, when a husband or a wife is
guilty of marital transgressions, the Law has
no real call to consider the spirit in which
they were perpetrated, or to question the
objects or inner sentiments of the person
seeking redress. If it simply found on the
facts and acted accordingly, in the Divorce
as in other jurisdictions, a tremendous lot
of unhappiness, lying and crime would be
obviated; and these, after all, are the things
the Law is there to prevent.
o
The Old Hop.
“0.K.” discourses :
The Vie. police force is seething with annoyance
at anew reading by the Crown Haw Department
of the Act which deals with the employment of the
John Dunn. It now appears that the Government
may retain the services of a Dunn for an indefinite
time after he reaches 55, he having no right to re-
tire and automatically start drawing his pension at
that age. To the layman the new interpretation ap-
pears sufficiently equitable and sensible. In fact, it
is something of a mystery that it isn’t applied freely
in other branches of the Civil Service. There are
men who are “tired and old and worn,” as the late
Harry Morant had it, at 45. The persistent beer-
fancier ; the neurotic ; persons who are born languid,
and folks with serious congenital physical defects,
are in this class. On the other hand, you get types
like James Bryce, Chief Justice Griffith, and
others who never seem to age. Obviously, it is rotten
economy to hoof out the fit because, at a certain
age, a certain crowd are liable to become unfit.
To get back to the Hop of Victoria, a policeman
who has a sound mind in a healthy body should be
worth keeping—in a billet where stoushing or chas-
ing ability is not a first requirement—up to the
age of 60 or a bit older. A red-nosed puffy sergeant,
with gouty feet and muddled brains, is a good rid-
dance as soon as his retiring hour strikes, if not
earlier. Providence, which is full; of compensations
for the public, usually decrees that the useless police-
man of 55 shall not live to enjoy many annual pen-
sions from the taxpayer in consideration of his pre-
vious unvaluable services, and, anyhow, his pension
is a smaller loss to the dountry than his full salary.
But the only sort of dignified policeman who was
worth his keep in active service up to the “retiring
age,” is usually worth paying for his experience a
few years longer. The Government should have the
option of refusing to convert a valuable public ser-
vant into a costly pensioner, although he personally
would rather draw sufficient means of support for
doing nothing, or running a pub, than a larger pay-
ment for continuing his old work. It may be argued
that a man who wants to retire on his fixed pension
is no longer worth the difference between his pension
and his salary ; but the argument applies only to those
constitutional loafers who never were worth the
salary. Also, it may be, and is, urged by young
constables that the sergeant of over 55 blocks the
way to the promotion of his juniors. Which is a very
young and one-sided view of the case. The useful
veteran who remains in harness to draw his salary,
whilst his worn-out contemporary is dropped by the
roadside, is practically showing the way for young
constables to enjoy a longer innings when they are
55.
The question of grievance in this matter turns on
the value of an old policeman’s experience. If no-
body’s experience is more valuable than that of the
grog-blossomed or dunder-headed incubus, whom the
Government gladly gets rid of in his 55th year, then
there should be no older man in the service. But if
even a policeman is not impervious to educational
influences, there is something to be said for the
Vic. Government’s claim to make the Force’s age of
pension a movable feast. If Burglar Bill had a say
in the regulation, he would superannuate every trap
at 40, or earlier.
The Claims of Geelong.
A roar of parish-minded bigotry has gone
up among N.S.W. politicians because the
Federal woollen factory is to be at Geelong
(Vic.), instead of being located, as every
good Federal institution should be, close to
Sydney. Already the meanness and petty
spite which caused the Federal capital terri-
tory at Yassberra (N.S.W.) to be cut down
so small are beginning to bear fruit. The
Australian Parliament believes in Public
Enterprise, and it has a large number of
activities either on hand or in view. These
require space, but there isn’t room for half a
dozen little industrial towns as well as the
capital itself —the City Beautiful —in the
Federal area. Thus a tendency arises, with
some show of excuse, to dot Federal indus-
tries here and there over the face of Aus-
tralia, so that when war comes the soldier’s
rifle will be manufactured at one place, and
his ammunition and clothes in another, and
his boots will grow in this direction, and his
hat a long distance away in that. Asa
matter of fact, Geelong is about as bad a
place as Sydney for Federal factories, and
Melbourne is by no means good. Yassberra
is better, but not nearly so much better as
it should be. It is Australia’s misfortune
that the great bulk of its population, most
of its wealth and its resources, and the mass
of its railway connections are on or close
to the coast. And the only so-called trans-
continental railway over the building of
which the Government shows any energy is
also, to a great extent, a coastal line. If war
comes —and it comes one day or another to
every country—and the attempt to defend
the coast-line —especially a scrap of coast-
line in the south-east —is a failure, then the
Australian armies must fall back inland, as
the Koers did when they put up their magni-
ficent scrap against Britain, and as Barclay
de Tolly and his Bussians did when they
led Napoleon I. to destruction in 1812. But
there will be this difference, and it is a differ-
ence which destroys the parallel and reduces
it to naught. The Boers and the Russians
were falling back on their resources, their
mass of population, their reinforcements,
their armories and factories, and, in the Boer
case, on their big railway centres. The Aus-
tralians will be leaving all these, and falling
back on hunger and comparative nothingness.
One of the things they will leave in their
retreat will naturally be the nice new fac-
tory at Geelong-beside-the-sea. A Govern-
ment with a wide Australian outlook would
make haste to build the Port Darwin-Port
Augusta railway through the middle of Aus-
tralia, and connect it with the railways from
the east, and thus open up the best-watered
far-inland country that Australia possesses.
Then it would try to establish population,
and agriculture, and some at least of its mili-
tary resources in these far inlands, out of
gunshot of the coast and the enemy’s fleet.
But, unfortunately, there are always votes
to be considered. The coastal places that
exist already have votes; the places that
ought to exist in the undeveloped interior
have none as yet. Geelong, once Sleepy Hol-
low, is rather a rising and ambitious spot
these days. It has about 31,000 electors,
and at last election it returned A. T. Ozanne
by a rather small majority. Geelong reckons
that something ought to be done for it, and
is capable of becoming nasty if something
isn’t done. The same sort of trouble arises
in a ( hundred other places. It doesn’t im-
prove the outlook for Australia, but then
party comes first, and Australia hobbles a
long way behind.
A Dirty City.
“Bloggs” scrapes some of the mud and wet
off his garments, and howls as follows: —
Sydney’s new Mayor weighed in with a superb
sample of municipal or unconscious humor last week.
He informed the dailies that he had made arrange-
ments to have the city hoardings, the tram cars, and
the windows of the bigger shops placarded with the
instruction: —
“Keep your City Clean. Do not throw paper, or even
tram tickets, on the streets, if you uo' you will be
prosecuted.”
The weather, in Sydney, during most of last week,
was rotten. It poured and cleared up, then drizzled
and cleared' up, and then repeated tne entire cere-
mony over again. Incidentally, it demonstrated to
every Sydney citizen with so much as an apology for
an eye for suen matters that the street-cleansing
methods of his native town are away back in the
dark ages of municipal effort. In many of, the
most frequented streets a rich black mud lay like a
pall over the landscape, and no one appeared to
dream of disturbing it. In the wood-blocked thor-
oughfares the ram did a certain amount in the way
of washing away clay, sand, offal, manure and the
like, but no human being took on the job so far as
the writer could observe. The result was that, for
several days, Sydneyites lived side by side with
liquid filth of all descriptions, and heated language
was general. In other big towns bands of civic
employees are constantly at work sweeping up and
carting away mud and manure as fast as they ac-
cumulate. The citizens find it pays, in the saying
of wear and tear to their garments, goods, vehicles
and health, and in a dozen other directions. Syd-
ney persistently economises in this regard, even as
it does in connection with the dust calamity and
peril. An occasional small boy, with a hand-broom
and a tin, is reckoned sufficient to cope with a
drenched city’s mud nroblem, just as one lonely and
prehistoric old watering cart, dragged by a single
horse, and worked by some contraption of string or
wire, is held to be ample to banish the dust of half
a dozen important and' wealthy streets. It was
characteristic of the immemorial Municipal Council
that, at the very moment when Sydney was at its
filthiest— la.rgelv owing to neglect of road-cleansing
and road-repairing—the head or chieftain of the
band which is responsible for the situation, should
come out with a bland suggestion that paper and
tram tickets ought not to be thrown round care-
lessly. Hardly anyone is ever prosecuted foy the
loathsome and insanitary offence of spitting on the
pavements, but there now appears to be a noss’bihtv
of someone being fined or gaoled or something for
dropping tram tickets. Still, it is only a possibility
after all. In the Vast resort the City Fathers are
going to depend, seemingly, on the citizens to keep
their city clean —in much the same spirit as the
crew of' a sttamer might helplessly cast on the pas-
sengers the job of working and navigating the vessel.
♦
The intensest Tories of the Liberal Party
in Victoria continue to reveal their fiscal
feelings in their persistent attacks on Sam
Mauger’s candidature for the Senate. Dr.
Carty Salmon and McColl, his brother-
Senator, have the unqualified approval of
the Fusion, but Mauger is the pet aversion
of the Jokook end of the firm. Melbourne
Argus professes to despise Samuel because
“His • sympathies are with Labor, and his
votes will go as far as possible to Labor
proposals,” whereas the great objection to
the busy hatter, from the Jokook party
point of view, is his sympathy with the one
Labor cause which the Fisher Ministry has
consistently betrayed. Mauger, the Pro-
tectionist, is the man the Argus is wildly
endeavoring to crush. To barrack for him
would be to advocate a whole-hearted tariff
reform, and the discordant organ of Conser-
vatism can’t do that. So Mauger almost
promises to be the rock whereon the cranky
Fusion craft will split in Victoria. He
must stand for High Tariff if he is to stand
at all. Asa matter of fact, Mauger repre-
sents the only sort of Liberal party that has
a hope of ousting the Revenue Tariff Labor-
ites at next election, but the Argus, in. its
blindness, still thinks of re-establishing
“Liberalism” in power on terms of “fiscal
truce.” Meanwhile, Deakin. seemingly,
has ceased to think at all. The Mauger
problem has got him down and stifled him.
T 4-
The S. M. Herald (23/7/T2), in alarm
at the advent of the American Meat Trust
into Queensland
The Australian public fully appreciates possibili-
ties of being squeezed if the Trust gets a footing in
Australia.... How far the general consumerwill be
affected by the opening of the new works remains
to be seen. If it is an American concern, it has
perfect freedom to start business. So long as it con-
forms to the law no one may interfere. A probable
effect foreseen is the possible ousting of the present
Queensland meat companies from trade in the Philip-
pines. If there is American capital in the new com-
pany it may be able to exert influences which will
secure to it the trade that now goes to the locally-
owned works, and which some of these have enjoyed
for many years.... The effect upon the meat export
The Return of the Golden Age.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Payne, member of Maoriland Parliament, ljas
prepared a Workers’ Right of Wages and Work Bill,
which provides that male and female workers, be-
tween the ages of 24 and 60 years, who may be un-
able to obtain employment, shall present themselves
at the nearest labor bureau, and receive as an abso-
lute right £3 weekly in respect of males, and £1 10s.
in respect of females.— -News item.
Before Jove sat upon his throne
The world was very sweet and fair,
And no one talked of cash or loan,
Or wanted very much to wear;
Such golden days shall now return,
And everything be quite as good
As when old incense used to burn
To Saturn in a Grecian wood.
Take hence the shovel and the pick,
Accursed be the heavy pen.
We shall not build of board or brick,
Nor plough the fiat, nor drain the fen;
We shall not lump upon the wharf,
Nor pull the teats of horned brutes,
Nor grind the wheat, nor weave the scarf,
Nor put a shine on muddy boots.
We shall not teach the wheel to roll,
Nor swing an axe, nor wield a saw,
Nor work to save an erring soul
The muscles of a preaching jaw;
We shall not slay the fatted ox,
Nor trim the whiskers of the sheep,
Nor pull a rope, nor quarry rocks,
Nor sell a choice allotment cheap.
But we shall lie in sun or shade,
And let the pleasant days go by,
Or dally with a winsome maid,
And look the bailiff in the eye;
Nor dun nor debt shall us affright,
But idle as the lilies blow,
We shall observe the sparrow’s flight,
And watch the cauliblossom grow.
The large, kind hand of Providence
Shall ope within the bureau door,
Without obeisance or pretence
Each morning we shall ask for more ;
Our own inalienable right
That none may filch away or rob
Is written fair in all men’s sight,
“Each week tliou shalt have sixty lok.”
All labor troubles here have end,
The curse of poverty is dead
We rise to hail the people’s friend,
And hang green things upon his head ;
All noisy agitations cease,
The Arbitration Court is vain,
Strikes are no more, the world is peace,
And pleasure follows after Payne.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


So
¥ EADING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident 8
Live Stock Insurance.
E 33
r
m
A>
jh
Blbck c Bepv/n
! Boot
Polishing
With this little present the dear
boy takes such a pride in the
appearance of his footwear.
The “Nugget”
Outfit is the best
value on the
market. l]
rtP»»
o#*2
A Battleship Spun into a Ribbon —
Rolled around a reel, set away on a shelf: then,
thrown out through a tiny lens, it sails away before
your very eyes. Magic? No—Motography!
All Public Events
of interest, especially sports, are taken by our staff
photographers; screened weekly at the Crystal
Palace, Sydney; The Britannia, Melbourne; and
our other theatres throughout Australasia.
It’s “Williams Weekly,” real views of the news.
Managing: Director,
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
trade to England and Europe is a feature of great
concern in connection with any footing being ob-
tained here by the American concern.
Quite true —“so long as it conforms to the
law” the U.S. Trust is at perfect liberty to
butcher the Australian meat export industry.
And the Herald is quite resigned about it.
The idea of getting anew law doesn’t occur
to that paper. Seemingly, it never heard of
certain .Referenda intended to provide the
very measure which the hard case of the
Australian meat industry is calling for.
Minister Tudor and His Friend, the
Importer.
The leaders of the Labor Fusion —the thing
that is part Protectionist and part Foreign-
trade, part Real Labor and part Cheap
Labor —has one stereotyped reply nowadays
to any and every demand that White Aus-
tralia shall be adequately defended against
colored and low-wage competition. It is
the answer of lazy men who hate to tackle
a big job—pf half-and-half or shandygaff
men, who hate to commit themselves —of
scared men, who can’t bear to risk their
billets by awaking the comatose dog. And
Minister Tudor threw is off his boundless
chest last week, as usual. This is the daily
paper report:—
Mr. Tudor was waited upon in Melbourne yester-
day by representatives of the iron trades, who urged
an immediate upward revision of the tariff.
The Minister replied that he was against re-opening
the tariff until the workers and consumers’ interests
were safeguarded. If he gave 1000 per cent. Pro-
tection, he said, the workers would still have to fight
for a penny rise.
Yet Tudor and his friends are re-opening
the tariff every day—always in the interests
of that Tory middleman, the importer, who
deals so profitably in sweated and non-union
and colored labor goods. The tariff is
simply a weight put in the scale to balance
the difference between fair wages on one
side and poor wages on the other. If the
wages are raised at this end, without the
tariff being raised at the other, or if the
tariff is lowered, while the wages are kept
stationary, it is exactly the same thing.
Hither way the tariff is being tampered witn,
and the tariff question re-opened. Even the
dullest dog of a politician knows that arti-
sans’ wages in Australia have been steadily
on the up-grade for some time. It is ques-
tionable if Tudor could point to a single
instance of late where artisans’ pay has
been reduced, whatever may have happened
to the employees of his dear friend the
importer, but increases have been innumer-
able. And Tudor and his mates have cor-
dially approved. They have done everything
they could to interfere with the tariff in the
interests of foreign cheap labor, by increasing
the handicap on Australian industry, while
carefully refusing to interfere with the handi-
cap on foreign industry. Every rise of local
wages, while the tariff remains stationary,
represents so much Protection to Foreign
Manufacturers. And while doing this sort
of thing, Tudor and his crowd haven’t even
had the decency to insist that the importer
shall pay his clerks and warehousemen and
sailor folk better remuneration in considera-
tion of the extra advantages he receives. His
chances have nearly doubled in a
very few years, and the Federal Labor party
looks on him with a friendly eye all the time,
and sees nothing wrong about the business.
Of course, it is true that the local manufac-
turer’s employee Ims to light for his increase
ot wages every time, as Minister Tudor
was careful to mention. The local manu-
facturer has no idea of being a professional
philanthropist* Also, the importer’s em-
ployee has to fight just as hard, as Minister
ludor was so careful not to mention. Also,
though the manufacturer’s chances keep
growing worse, while the importer’s grow
better, the importer’s employee fights for his
little increase with much less hope, and
much less success, and with much less
assistance from Tudor and Cos., alleged
Laborites, alleged unionists, alleged advo-
cates of fair wages, and professed supporters
ot White Australia. Why that unstable
crowd always leans, on tariff matters, towards
the foreigner, the Tory, the middleman, the
sweater s agent and the nigger’s representa-
tive, the Lcird only knows. Possibly the
baleful eye of Bruce Smith has hypnotised
it and got it down.
North Sydney —the municipality which
turned down the City Council’s offer to sup-
ply it with cheap electricity lest acceptance
thereof should help the Greater Sydney
movement along—yearns to hand its electri-
cal business over to Private Enterprise. That
is to say, its aldermen yearn to do this
foolish thing. The other day they got
“counsel’s opinion” as to their powers in
the matter. Counsel opined that Bumble
had power to make a contract with Private
Enterprise. But— (1) Bumble had no
power to permit P.E. to erect poles or inter-
fere with roadways to supply electricity to
private consumers. (2) If Bumble granted
such permission, any property owner suffer-
ing damage could sue Bumble in his cor-
porate capacity. (3) Each individual
Bumble would be personally liable. (4)
Bumble had no power to regulate prices of
electricity to private consumers. Bumble,
in fact, according to counsel, stands in the
position of Siiylock —he may annex his
morsel of flesh, but blood-letting is nro-
hibited. In this case, however, Shylock is
a reckless financier, and is going for his
meat all the same. In other words, the
Council has decided to call for tenders from
Private Enterprise to supply North Sydney
with electricity. Unless Bumble thinks
better of it, or some patriotic ratepayer kicks
Bumble into the harbor in the meantime
there should be much joy ahead of the mun-
lcipality which Bumble proposes to throw
to the wolves in this free and cheerful
manner.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
Criterion “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Royal “Kismet.”
Adelpih “The Girl Who Loved a Soldier.”
Palace “Sweet County Kerry.”
£ IVOU Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
*y YRIO .. Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. I&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess ...., West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Imperial Rink Roller Skating.
Glaciarium ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ You Never Can Tell.”
Her Majesty's “The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s "A Mi ssage from Mars.”
k'NG's “The Girl Who Knew a Bit.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
AthenjEum Hall Mary Proctor.
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, the Quinlan
Opera Co. lately put on the brake by slowing
down to an average of about three first
nights a week. As most of the nights have
been filled with all the rain that missed the
ancient brolly of Noah, first-nighters paddled
home by emergency boat or water-tyred
motor. The management now threatens to
return to its original gallop. Every even-
ing at seven or eight o’clock ( accord-
ing to the length and breadth of
the remarks the tenor and soprano
will make to the stage moon or the
twinkling limelight star) there will be a
fresh trial stakes. This paper bets heavily
on the chances of that good-looking Wag-
nerian filly, Agnes Nicholls, winning by a
breadth or two, a shoulder ahead of Edna
Thornton.
Verdi’s digression into barbaric splendor,
which he called “Aida,” was intended for
Cairo, and first produced there in 1871.
This prolific composer keeps his best opera-
tic grist for the singer’s mill. But the over-
ture to “Aida” is sufficiently important to
come nearer to the German ideal (which
A; ns the vocalist and makes him sing for
his life against a hurricane blast of orches-
tration) than any of the popular Italian
operas of the Verdi period. In the Quinlan
co.’s production on Monday night Edna
Thornton, the jealous daughter of the Phar-
aoh of the moment, was an Amneris who was
strong and consistent in her vocal attack on
the heart of John Bull Coates—the Badames
of the cast. Amneris forced her voice too
much, once or twice, but the orchestra,
when Voghera steers the baton, leans ever
to the noisy side. Jeanne Brola, as the
Ethiopian bond-maid Aida, was shrill and
insignificant. This Yankeee singer’s vocal
organ is not up to grand opera standard.
This paper gave Brola the benefit of the
doubt Avhen the brawl of Puccini’s “Girl of
the Golden West” upset her musical apple-
cart. It would like to give her the ofition,
or the rising of the court, for her top notes
on the shores of the Nile. The sharp edge
“INCONSTANT
GEORGE,” AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
HARRY
PLIMMER
AS GEORGE.
of her grandfather’s sword seemed to cut
the air when Brola’s soprano climbed the
Ethiopian scale. Tenor Coates gave Ha-
dames all the vocal help that love-tossed
captain of the Egyptian Guards was worth.
Coates is singing with greater finish since
his first “Lohengrin” performance showed
this city what the portly Yorkshireman can
do—when he chooses to exert himself.
Though John looked like a British alder-
man who’d joined a Cook’s tour to the banks
of old Nile, in early Assyrian fancy dress,
he was the strong man of the “Aida” love
lays. Allen Hinckley, without the Father
Christmas beard he has been doomed to
wear in other operas, was large, beautiful
and clean-shaved as the High Priest of Isis.
** .*■*■
“Faust,” produced on Saturday night by
the Quinlan aviary, proved one of its best
all-round performances. Agnes Nicholls,
admittedly too large in the size of her belt
to look the girlish Marguerite of “Faust’s”
vision, was enchanting on the vocal side.
Melba is always ahead of competition in
the florid trimmings of the older school of
Italian and French opera. Agnes Nicholls
is a safe second in the elaborate and showy
“Jewel Song.’ Rosina Beynon’s “Siebel”
was an improvement on most of her pre-
vious efforts, as heard in this city. Robert
Parker reduced Mephistopheles to an attrac-
tive vaudeville corner man with a streak of
the Devil in his worst moments. The
Faust of John Harrison was weak in spots,
but the spots only the size of three-
penny bits. As this issue smites the linotype,
“Valkyrie” is, or ought to be, swirling round
Her Majesty’s stage.
•ji jjc jjj
THE GIRL WHO LOVED A SOLDIER;
OB
THE DASHED VILLAIN.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
Oh! she was fair and beautiful! (The
new Australian play
In Act One downed the hero who was in the
R.A.A.
The villain stole from him the plans of Syd-
ney’s Middle Head,
Then branded him a traitor in his uniform
so red.
But oh! the fumbling villain’s schemes
came instantly to wreck !
His colonel never doubted hipi, his girl hung
round his neck.
And when the scout behind the tree un-
masked the shrinking churl,
The hero dashed him to the earth and kissed
his splendid girl.)
Her dresses were magnificent! (Act Two
began again
The contest for f Jier matchless hand between
the leading men.
She had a proud but busted Pa, with ’scut-
cheon undefiled —
The dreary sort that has white hair, and
moans “Alas ! me cheild !”
The villain told him he was bust, and as
Pa had no sense,
He boiled his blue blood uselessly a,nd sold
his girl for pence.
But ere the villain smacked his lips, or dis-
arranged one curl,
The hero dashed him to the earth, and kissed
his wondrous girl.)
She grew more lovely act by act! (The
villain, partly stunned,
Was ready still to fight for her with him
who simply gunned ;
He glode about and spent his cash, and
went without his rest,
Though well he knew the hero would mal-
treat his well-cut vest.
He shouted to confederates his diabolic plot
To blow the submarine to bits with one
tremendous shot.
He did it, too! But when the place was in
a fearful whirl,
The hero dashed him to the earth, and
kissed his peerless girl.)
But she was worth a lot of bumps ! (The
villain rose once more;
He had concussion of the back and felt ex-
tremely sore;
His clothes were dusty, and his tie was
looped above his ear;
He got a hiss, whereas by rights he should
have got a cheer;
For he was game without a doubt, and very
nicely dressed;
And doubtless he had paid good coin for that
ill-treated vest.
The play went on —-the plot unwound —
there came a sudden swirl—!
The hero—yes, as usual! —and then kissed
the dazzling girl!)
I cannot recollect the plot. ,1 only saw Her
face!
Star-like she floated through the acts to
meet his fond embrace;
Time after time he doted on her honey-laden
mouth,
For she was fair and gracious as a corn-
field in the south.
He had no mercy on the house —I never
shall forget
He kissed her nine-and-sixty times —he
kissed each time they met!
The blessed villain broke at last. I saw that
hero hurl
Some battered object into gaol, and—-
(WHAT a gorgeous Girl!!)
n.s.w. The Religious Editor.
All melodramas are the same melodrama
with a different setting. For the latest
Adelphi production, the scene painters have
supplied a succession of sunlit Australian
backgrounds which are decidedly more cheer-
ful than the usual gloomy London surround-
ings. There are few rags in it, practically
no grime, and altogether a general atmo-
sphere of brightness and buoyancy. It is
well handled, by the company, headed by the
very decorative Violet Paget, in a series of
frock inspirations, and the capable and good-
looking Hugh Buckler. Comedian-author
Wilton Welch has provided himself with a
good deal to do; but he does it so well that
“INCONSTANT GEORGE AT MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS’S.
’Arry Sweeney as the
Judicious Valet.
George Titheradge as
Lucien de Versannes.
no one could resent his lack of absence. In-
cidentally, his Boy Scout is a deadly blow
at the Barnum-Powell circus organisation.
Miss Elwyn Harvey, as a Girl Scout, acts
crisply, and Frank Reis supplies a credit-
able burlesque of a Jew. Jennie Pollock is
gracefully insipid as a sort of secret service
female, and Godfrey Cass makes a thoroughly
vindictive villain, who takes his frequent
dashings to earth in a sportsmanlike spirit.
* * * *
The frivolity of “Nightbirds” is to give
way to stern finance on Saturday at the
Criterion. “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford,”
Cohan’s humorous comedy of the fake com-
pany-promoter, American species, will be
given by the Firm’s comedy company, with
specially imported leads. The analysis of
Wallingford’s balance-sheet will appear next
week.
The four cyclonic Amaranths hurled them-
selves back to the Tivoli, last Saturday.
They use up an enormous amount of energy
in their whirling display—probably as much
as a whole suburb of sluggish Mary Annes
supply in a month. It is harrowing to re-
flect on the amount of work that could be
done if the Amaranths would only turn a
dynamo for a bit instead of turning somer-
saults. The rest of the second part is sup-
plied by the genial songster, Alec Hurley,
the clowning Webb Brothers, Niagara and
halls, Frank Sidney and co., and Fred
Bluett. The bill is also graced by the
demurely clever Fanny Powers.
Two thousand feet of blood and fire is the
draw at the Lyceum this week. The film, “A
Soldier’s Honor,” was taken around and in
an American fort. A young lieutenant, who is
getting his first taste of war, shows a yellow
streak, and remembers an appointment at
home. However, his wife won’t have any-
thing to do with him; and he goes back, and
is captured, but, like Hajj, he breaks the
ropes and escapes to his own fort. There he
tells his comrades of a plot he overheard
among the enemy, and is thus the means of
saving his side being beaten by five wickets.
Other films that share the bouquets are
Views of Katoomba” and an adaptation of
the Bible story concerning the threatened cut-
ting up and subdivision of the great estate
comprised by the baby. This is attributed
to our old friend Solomon—the bookmaker
of old Jerusalem.
>Jc
The people of Sydney had already seen
Sweet County Kerry” at the Adelphi, and
the second application at the Palace on
Saturday night inclined to become weari-
some. At first sight, it would appear that
Allen Doone’s humor was spontaneous, but
when, after seven months, it is practically
unchanged, the first impression fades away,
and the humor seems to be all cut and dried,
Doone’s songs are still the leading feature,
and his job of making a horseshoe out of a
made-to-order bar of iron still looms large
in the list of attractions. Although Edna
Keeley has lost some of her Yankee accent
(her chief drawback in Irish drama), she
still shows an occasional desire to overstep
the dividing line between brogue and twang,
or between blarney and Broadway. All the
other characters appear to have "been chis-
elled out during George Marlow’s season.
Ronald Riley,_ as Valentine Hay, is still the
very mechanical villain who employs a
second scoundrel to find a third ruffian to do
his dirty work for a fourth of what the work
is worth. Tom Buckley and Frank Cul-


wm
m
■M
a
Schweppes*
Lime Juice
Cordial.
Prepared Solely from MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE.
Purveyors by Special Appointment
to His Majesty the King.
Head Office : 49 PALL MALL, LONDON.
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
lenane, as the two old birds of the party;
Onslow Edgeworth, as Raymond Drew ; and
Ethel Grist, as Alice Doyle, have not
changed an atom since this writer first made
their acquaintance. But one is apt to tire of
Irish drama, much as one gets tired of Dago
wars and Liberal rallies.
** * *
The Pechilli Troupe has arrived at Sydney
National Amphitheatre. From the fact that
its members are billed as “Royal Entertain-
ers to the Emperor of China” (Who, as every
student of the Yellow Agony knows, is but
six years old), the public, ever hasty in such
matters, might leap to the conclusion that
the Pechillis are wet-nurses, or something
equally dull. This is not so. They are ath-
letes of a high order, contortionists of
supreme merit, plate-spinners and many
other things that are marvellous and bizarre.
Bessie Slaughter is still there, and her
mighty voice shows no signs of giving out;
while Shipp and Gafney, Professor Karl
and his pony, and a whole herd of other
artists are doing their duty by the manage-
ment right lustily.
He H 5 * H«
Oscar Hajj Asche has numbered his own
nights at Sydney Royal, and those who have
not heard him beg alms of the Wazir
McGowen outside the Mosque of the Arab
Hodcar'riers will do well to hurry.
Bernard Shaw’s jesting sermon seemed to
catch on to the uninitiated in the third act
of its first night at Melbourne Royal. People
who know not Shaw can hardly be expected
to enjoy the atmosphere of his wildest com-
edy the moment they enter it. Situations
in the opening scene are more obviously un-
reasonable than any that come later. A dot-
ing mother and an inseparable brother allow
Dolly Clandon to go to an unknown dentist
about her tooth before they call at the tor-
ture chamber to collect the damsel. Also,
the mother from Madeira, who has been
drawing a large income from her discarded
husband for 18 years, doesn’t know that he
is a resident propputy-owner of the English
town she has come to stay in. Moreover,
the cute Dolly and her unknown father, in
his turn, submit their mouths to a dentist
who treats teeth as mere matters for extrac-
tion-—which is very unlike a gum architect,
anyhow. The first act is the weakest of the
four. Subsequently, the developments of love
between Gloria and the dentist seemed too
subtle for most of the audience, and it wasn’t
until Valentine delivered his discourse on
sex-warfare to Mrs. Clandon that Shaw held
the house by the ear. Probably “You Never
Can Tell” will do satisfactory business. Cer-
tainly it will smooth the way for another
and another humorous philosophical comedy
by the same optimistic cynic.
Generally speaking, the performance is
better than was expected of “The Blue Bird”
co. Miss Gladys Ellam, as the popular
Dolly, although she has too sharp an edge
on her style, is pleasing in everything but
her make-up. Ewan Brook is a capital den-
tist, and Miss Bayley is a mother that any
family might be proud of. As to whether
Mrs. Clandon is not an impossibly superior
woman for any old-fashioned man to live
with, the question remains open in the play.
E. A. Warburton’s nervous, explosive im-
personation of Mrs. Clandon’s suffering hus-
band is strong by comparison with the
cruder work of the mummer who acts
McComas. Bohun, K.C., passes muster. For
the rest, there are Norman Page (the cat
of “The Blue Bird”), who presents twin
brother Philip as a smileless young prig with
a meeowic voice, rather than a light-hearted
young firework; and Madge Mclntosh and
Edward Rigby. Miss Mclntosh, as Gloria,
is an example of how to be charming though
unbeautiful. Her way of falling, unwillingly,
in love in the first place, and then holding
on to her victim lest he should escape her,
is eloquent with the gospel according to
Shaw. Rigby (the Bread of “Blue Bird”)
is a delight in the Waiter William part. A
trifle more antique than William needs to
be, perhaps, but full of understanding of the
author’s wit, and thoroughly artistic in his
expression of it. The scenery is George
Upward’s, and the staging is satisfactory
in all respects, save the luncheon table,
which should be placed on the bias instead
of length ways.
'*= *!• H= ; ! :
At the Princess’s a clever comedy co. has
failed to give an air of probability to “In-
constant George,” therefore the plump phil-
anderer will pack up his pyjamas and retire
from the bill on Friday. Parenthetically, it
may be remarked that in the long ago when
Charles Wyndhtoi started to be a young man,
he was the hero of a farce adapted from the
“FAUST,” AT HER MAJESTY'S,
SYDNEY.
"You cannot harm us now." Siehel (Rosina Bey non), Valentine (W. J. Samuell) and
Wagner (Wynn) conquer Mephistopheles (Robert Parker).
French, and called “Brighton,” in which he
spoke of every girl he met as “the only
woman I have ever loved.” George, at the
Princess’s, appears to be a grandson of that
old time Inconstant. On Saturday the
Plimmer-Denniston co. will play “A Message
from Mars,” and should do it uncommonly
well.
* * * *
“The Girl Who Knew a Bit” is the forth-
coming drama at the King’s. She sounds
like a musical comedy, or a serio-chronic
ditty, but the advt. credits her with 16 thrill-
ing _ scenes, ineluding “dangers ashore and
perils afloat.” Meanwhile, Cyril Mackay is
leaping from the bowels of an Indian god to
rescue Miss Duggan from the sacrificial fire
where she has so many times been laid to
frizzle.
* * * ■-;<
In “The Time is Not Yet Ripe,” which re-
ceived a fairly respectable amateur perform-
ance at Melbourne Repertoire Theatre last
week, Louis Esson reveals a healthy young
talent for full-sized playwriting. When the
final scene has been reformed, his farcical
comedy might be better worth production as
a theatrical spec, than some of the stodgy
bellowdramas which have only their con-
ventional action to recommend them. There
is dramatic action enough in Esson’s play,
and the roar of human interest in the elec-
tion crowd of the third act would appeal to
the public that wants to be entertained. The
story of “The Time,” etc., is a chaotic
travesty of things political, the hero being a
squattah-socialist who advocates a two-
liours’ working day and compulsory Greek
education for the people, while the heroine
is a purely feminine daughter of a Liberal
Prime Minister who is compelled to be a
Good Woman candidate on the Hearth and
Home ticket. When she has defeated
the revolutionary squattah by SOOO votes to
170, she arranges to take him to Britain
with her father’s blessing on their union.
Between the utterly foolish Tories on the
one hand and the hot-air reformers on the
other, the plot would fall to the ground if it
were not supported by some happy satirical
thoughts in the dialogue. But the election
act would still stand on its own as a matter
of the first importance in which the poor
little plot is not vitally concerned. Esson’s
amusing imitation of Bernard Shaw’s up-to-
date method in the old Gilbertian manner
(or vice versa ) will presumably be repeated
in the next Repertoire session.
* * * *
Melbourne’s gastronomical outbreak (or
is it astronomical) begins next Monday.
Miss Mary Proctor will talk of the sun,
moon, planets and such matters in a popu-
larly scientific manner at the Athenaeum
Hall, and for six nights the bright little
lady, whose earliest memories are of tele-
scopes and constellations, will vary her in-
teresting discourses. Baker and Dix are
directing the tour, and Joe Brown, who has
adopted a star-gazing expression as J. Wal-
lace Brown, is seeing that the directions are
duly carried out.
* * * *
Mozetto, “one of the world’s finest jug-
glers,” arrived at the Opera House on Satur-
day. The name is apparently Dago for
Moses, and the performer’s strongest suit
is his manipulation of monish. He throws
half a dozen coins into the air simultane-
ously and catches them separately. Mr.
Thomas Dawson, who takes his jokes seri-
ously, has returned, and is provoking the
loud larf which earns him his beer and bread.
The De Serris company has been subtracted
from the bill, but the excellent Paxton
troupe, Fred Russell and the Stavordale
Quintet, still remain.
* 5H S’ *
“The Snake Dancer,” a phantom of languid
poses and indiscreet appeals for admiration,
had a few minutes at West’s, Melbourne, last
Saturday night. During her turn on the
screen she appears to subject a gent to the
glance of giddy persuasion, but her legal
owner intervenes and prevents developments.
“The Old Actor,” which also stirred the emo-
tions of the bob and tanner “rush,” on
Saturday evening, was an item so bereft of
sin and duplicity that it would make an
admirable tale for Christian young men and
sentimental old ladies. “Pathe’s Animated
Gazette” supplied the usual glimpses of
royal blokes lifting their tiles to the abject
herd.
$ $
„ Quaker Girl” is impaled on the
pinnacle of popularity” at Her * Majesty’s,
Melbourne. This is an even loftier elevation
than the height of success, and very few
girls have succeeded in getting there.
sK :J: *
The bill that beckoned for approval at
t. h [ e £ ran L.yne (Vic.), last week, included
A Tale of Two Cities,” a film so realisti-
cally done that it appealed to the crowd like
a statement of fact. The next best
bit of fiction was “A Lodging for
the Night,” a Mexican narrative full of un-
couth violence and old guitar tunes; while a
more comfortable proposition was “At Scrog-
gin’s Corner,’ ’a fable of a feeble, fat parent
and his prodigal daughter.
51= 51= *
This has been Australian Week in Adel-
aide all right. The city has honored the
memory of McDouall Stuart, and banqueted
the survivors of his 50-years-ago party. Won-
dergraph is showing the films of ’ Birtles’s
travels, with the iguana devouring the snake,
and the seabirds flocking on the Barrier
Reef, and the native in peace and (appar-
). war. And now the Royal (where
Nellie Fergusson and George Cross and
others had previously been wasting some
good acting on a poor bellowdfamaj has
blossomed out with “On Our Selection.”
The playwrights have unfortunately thought
it necessary to graft same conventional melo-
drama on to Steele Rudd’s story. At the
Tivoli is Max Laube, who calls himself a
Human Bird, and the small Rees child ties
herself into knots, while papa and mamma
discourse- sweet music. At the King’s, the
Wynford brothers have been flitting over
pianos and into casks, the birdlike effect
being slightly discounted each time by the
twin thuds of a pair of heavy dumbbells,
cast back on the boards from mid-jump.
Biberti is a clever illusionist, and funny
withal; and Carrie Moore is as artistic as
ever. Tiny Town’s return visit has been a
success, especially when one midget lady
announced her wedding, and exhibited her
trousseau : and Edward Reeves, at the Vic-
toria Hall, has wrestled pluckily and suc-
cessfully, with “Othello,” single-handed.
YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You never can tell
What may chance to befall from a pain in
the tooth
Of a bright little maid,
When her visit is paid
To a five-shilling dentist quite new to the
trade,
If her brother and twin
(A remarkable youth)
Like a feather flies in
To the den of the dentist, and asks him to
lunch
With their sister and mater
(Who come along later),
In a casual way at a breezy hotel,
Where William the waiter
Is fated to dwell,
And the young people’s pater—
A morbid old hater
Of modern diversions in manners of life—-
Being brought as a stranger,
Not dreaming of danger,
Is thrust in the midst of the family bunch.
To feed once again with his children and
wife
In a casual way at that breezy hotel.
Oh, you can never tell!
You never can tell
How a singular girl, who is courted in haste
By a jaunty young dentist of critical taste,
Will be suddenly stirred
By his amorous word
And the shocking surprise .of an arm round
her waist,
When his kisses rain warm,
And her sensitive form
For the very first time is profanely embrac’t.
You never can tell how Humanity’s tricks,
Turning “natural law,”
In a story by Shaw,
To the happy results of a family mix
At that breezy hotel
By the sea,
Will alter the orthodox course of events
By fooling a couple of solemn old gents,
And changing the trend of a father’s intents,
As though by a magical spell,
Dissenters agree
When a learned K.C.
(A son of the wonderful William who waits)
Removes a false nose
From the feature he blows,
And claims their respect for the case that
he states.
Sing hey hilly-holly,
The surface is folly—
There’s wisdom beneath ;
And, as William remarks to the puller of
teeth—
“Ah ! you never can tell!”
VICTORIA.
O.K.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Mary Proctor’s forthcoming lecture tour is not
wholly for self-enrichment. Part of the proceeds are
to go to the building of a solar observatory in this
part of the world, which is sadly lacking iii the
necessary facility for studying sun-spots. People
who have met the popular science lecturess speak of
her as a quite sweetly human litfle woman. The
Salonites booked her as “star” guest for last Monday
afternoon, and to-day (Thursday) the Gaud Mayor
gives her an “informal” reception in his apartment at
the Town Hall.
“Stargazer” : Anton Tchekhov’s “the Seagull,” re-
cently introduced to a Melbourne audience by an
amateur cast, was something more' than a failure.
The reason is not far to seek. Riftsian civilisation
is not our civilisation. Russian character is not our
character. Russian emotionalism is the product of
conditions foreign to us —many famines, much suffer-
ing, long tyranny, and the ferment of the down-
trodden in juxtaposition with the luxury of a domin-
ant plutocracy. This makes a play of Tchekhov’s
look to Australians more like a day in an asylum for
the Possessed of Devils than a page from life, unless
the acting is so intense as to impress the vitality of
the suffering portrayed during every moment of the
play. And Melbourne does not hold the amateur
who is capable of supplying that class of acting.
Where habits, customs and emotions are familiar, less
is demanded of the actor. The popular imagination
supplies deficiencies. But when the reverse is the
case, the man on the boards must be a devout student
and a powerful interpreter. Which is why I hold
that the Repertory Theatre, with the best intentions
in the world, does more harm than good in turning
its crude bo.y players on a vast proposition like this
Russian drama.
Six feet six inches of drink advertisements in a
theatre programme seems about the limit. That is
the achievement of the Sydney Palace “Sweet County
Kerry” programme. Seventy-eight inches out of
132 inches of available advertising space are devoted
to an appeal to the folk who lead a tight life, and
another six inches are an appeal to women who wear
a tight and breathless corset.
“0.K.”: The “theatre-packer” is seemingly doomed
to extinction-—in Victoria, at any rate. The local
Board of Health, somewhat late in the day, has de-
nounced him as a fiend, or suffocater, who compresses
about 10 per cent, more people into a certain breath-
ing space than it is licensed to hold, and an Act of
Parliament is threatened which will insure a fixed
allotment of sit-down for everybody who pays for it
—-“One Person, one Seat.” This will happen, per-
haps—agitation for reform of that sort being subject
to the possibility of sudden subsidence and ultimate
oblivion. If the “packer” is actually ejected from
his unhealthy sphere of industry, his departure will
not be unregretted by all who knew him. He is a
humorous incident—especially on first nights—-and
he has his sentimental bearings. He produces ripples
and roars of merriment, along with growls of blas-
phemy, in the crowded gallery. When the world
below wonders what the goddesses are laughing at,
the joke is due to the packer, who has spotted a
chance to make room for a little one between two
artful citizens, who are inclining towards one an-
other at an angle of 25 degrees, or is inserting a
stout lady into a place that would be a tight fit for
a starved child or a lost cat. And in his capacity of
agent for Cupid the business-like packer often supplies
a long-felt want. Affable young men approach him
with silver offerings and whispered requests. “Put
me among the girls,” or “Wedge me in next to the
plump little piece in green.” Also, girls indicate
to the packer the particular young men they would
like to be placed in juxtaposition with, and his ser-
vices in such cases are rewarded with a heartfelt
smile. It seems more than probable that the packer
has tended to promote marriages and births, as well
as enhance the death rate.
Alice Crawford has been appearing in Tree’s Shaks-
pearian revival in London. An Australian judgment
on Alice’s personation of Emilia in “Othello” is not
very favorable. “She gave quite a new rendering
and trailed about more like Dante’s Beatrice as
Rossetti painted her, than Shalcspeare’s traditional
heroine.” Which indicates the wilful eccentricitv
that is commonly alleged against Alice Crawford
nowadays. She presents commonplace characters in a
poetic decorative style. Emilia is essentially an
ordinary married woman of her period, with only a
fair amount of soul, and a bit of a tartar when
roused.
Never have London papers been more unanimous
in slating a new opera than in the case of ‘(The Chil-
dren of Don,” written by Lord Howard de Walden,
and produced at the lord’s expense by the New York
Jew, Hammerstein. Lord Howard de Walden is a
young man, who draws an enormous revenue in rents
from an estate in the most fashionaible district of
London. He is under the hallucination that he can
write lyrical poetry, and his “Children of Don” is
an outrageous attempt to versify an ancient Welsh
legend. It deserves 12 months’ tough labor without
the option. Some of the selections from the rich
man’s muse, given in the London papers, are ludi-
crous in the extreme. Composer Holbrooke could do
little or nothing with such stuff. The scenery and
staging are all that is praised by the critics.
(Continued on page 30.)
BELIEVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Chapman preached to-day on the Bible as an
inspired book which could not be ignored. He had
no time tor sceptics, he said. Let them believe a
thing fully, and the facts would come along after-
wards. —Report of Chapman-Alexander Mission.
Only believe. The facts will follow after.
This is our joyous method, proved and tried,
No room is here for scoff or sceptiy laughter,
Just start believing—set the redt aside.
Believe in what? Nay, nay, the facts will follow.
Don’t worry. Just believe, and let them go.
We do not ask what statements you can swallow,
But urge you to believing all you know.
Believe quite fully. Do not seek to reason,
All unbelief is now quite out of date,
The plain and solid facts will come in season,
Chasing hard after the collection plate.
Believe. Here is no room for idle chatter,
Science and logic can have nought to say,
What you believe in does not really matter
As long as you will start in right away.
Believe. Your hesitation is appalling,
When plain belief is such a simple thing;
Get to the job, bog in, and help in bawling
The songs that Alexander bids you sing.
Believe, believe! The facts are close behind you,
And any moment now they may be seen ;
Believe them straight away, in case they find you,
When they arrive, still doubting what they mean.
Believe at once. We’re open to receive in
Our Yankee fold all those who yearn for grace;
But miss this chance, the facts you don’t believe in
May be exceeding difficult to trace.
Therefore believe. The facts will follow after.
Our joyous method has been proved and tried,
In spite of faithless scoff and sceptic laughter,
Believing pays us, and the rest can slide.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


The New Spring: Fashions
will be showing at David Jones’ on Monday, August 5.
On Monday, August 5, David Jones’ will make an exhibition of
tne new Spring and Summer goods. The daintiest and most exquisite
Towns an< L ' ’ ra P s will be_ showing, introducing in many instances the
aniner effects, ruche trimmings, two-tone effects, and many other
leading features of fashion. In the Lingerie Gown- —which has an
unprecedented vogue this Summer, David Jones’ will show some
™ n creations, ranging from the costliest to the most inexpensive.
Ihe Mdhnery will be quite worth an inspection; Fashion having
excelled in the matter of Headgear. As you pass through, take a
peep at the beautiful trimmings—the neckwear, the shoes, the gloves,
etc. The Departments for Men will also show new Spring and
Summer goods; while the Furnishing Sections, 359 George Street, will
exhibit the latest artistic effects for the Spring and Summer home.
.Remember, this is the House that Pays Carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD.
SYDNEY
gĥ
Comfort
For One-Penny-Farthing per day!
Warm Your Home with a
Perfection Oil Heater"
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE HATPIN ACT.
WICKED HUSSY (to Moustacious): “Hi! Mister,
wear guards. Yer'll be git ting fined."
Two recent instances of the power of
“self-suggestion” have caused remark in
Melbourne. In one, a man betook himself
to the city hospital suffering from severe
internal pains caused by swallowing a set
of shop teeth. He could only be persuaded
that the doctors and the Itontgen rays appa-
ratus were right when somebody hastened
to the institution with the eaters he had
mislaid at home. A few days later a girl
happened along declaring herself almost in
articiilo mortis from carbolic acid poison-
ing, which liquid she had mistakenly swal-
lowed. Her mouth had been slightly burned
by the few drops she had taken, but none had
been swallowed, and on the doctor assuring
her such was the case, she immediately
became convalescent. But this self-sugges-
tion business is fairly common in other
places than hospitals. The average farmer,
frinstans, fancies he is the backbone of the
country, and can seldom be persuaded other-
wise. Big landlords believe the whole popu-
lation exists for their sole benefit and advan-
tage Affable Alfred has an idea that fervid
eloquence accomplishes great deeds. Spruce
Myth and Jokook imagine they are genuine
statesmen, and so forth. In fact, there is
bardly any limit to the power of self-
suggestion.
In Victoria’s Supreme Court lately the
Law spent most of a day inquiring into the
state and habits of a lady named Green or
Gawne, in so far as concerned her alleged
marriage. It seems that recently Gawne
was acquitted of a charge of larceny, and in
the course of his trial Mrs. Gawne swore
that she had been married to him for two
years. The State considered this perjury,
and charged her with that offence. In
defence, she put up a quaint plea that she
had in reality been married to Gawne
two _ years ago, but only in “the Scotch
fashion.” Now there have been many
“Scotch fashions” in marriage, including the
ancient one of leaping over a broomstick, the
Gretna Green style, and the other one in
which the groom only married the lady if
she first bore him a son. But the particular
“Scotch fashion” referred to was one in
which the contracting parties joined hands
in the presence of witnesses, and agreed to
become man and wife for the balance and
remainder _of their days. The lady was
cross-examined at great length about this
ceremony, and adhered to her opinion that
it was a proper and complete wedding,
though she couldn’t explain why she subse-
quently got herself and Gawne married by
a Methodist parson, or why she then
described herself as a spinster. It was a
scrappy, unfinished sort of case, and Scotch
marriages are extinct now; and a Scotch
marriave perpetrated outside of Scotland
doesn’t seem to be Scotch or to have ever
been Scotch. Still, the jury acquitted the
lady of perjury. After that, his Honor
curtly intimated that the State was wasting
its time, and that a similar charge against
Gawne might as well be dropped.
* * * *
Extracts .from the Book of the Proverbs
of “O K.”
Charity covers a multitude of personal advts.
A sharp tongue cuts both ways.
Bad parents are merely ills that flesh is heir to.
The great aim of Civilisation is to achieve a full
sense of humor. Non-progressive nations never laugh
at themselves. Behold the Turk, the Persian, the
Hindoo, the Chow!
Nothing in this world can be utterly bad —-except
a debt.
The whisper is mightier than the shout—save where
drinks are concerned.
Women love to be worshipped, and they hate their
despisers. But they really despise their worshippers.
A superior smile is a sure indication of false teeth.
Some people never send for the doctor without
letting the undertaker know.
A Wowser is one who walks lugubriously in the
shadow of a dreary Past.
Put not your trust in spinsters.
He runs a risk who walks to the altar.
Many a murderer should have been discharged as a
first offender.
.A husband is pretty much what his wife makes
him. As a rule she makes him a dyspeptic by her
catering.
A cat may, lairdi at a king. Isn’t the contem-
plation of kingship enough to make a cat laugh?
“Harrison O.”: What is wrong with the
female hatpin being not merely shortened by
legal process, but placed in the same cate-
gory as sling-shots, knuckledusters, fire-
arms and life-preservers? At the Norwood
(Adelaide) Oval the other day, a male who
appears to have umpired a football debate
not wisely but too well, had one of these
accursed gauds jabbed into his arm when he
was returning to the dressing-room. Blood-
poisoning set in, and the Lord alone knows
what is going to follow. Footballers, John
Hops and theatre “packers” regard the
hat-spear or the tile-pike more appre-
hensively than blue metal. Let one be-
come unpopular with any crowd which in-
cludes a large number of females, and he
lias just as much hope as a small lion in a
den of hungry Danielesses. His only chance
then is to whirl a scythe rhythmically around
him to the tune of a snuffling rhyme, and
thus clear a patlr—but, then, he may not
have his scythe along with him at the
moment.
The man that hits a Sydney tram con-
ductor is a fool—unless he is something
extra in the boxing division. A young man
made this discovery last week. ' He made
rude remarks to the conductor when asked
to pay his fare, and threatened to strike
that inoffensive-looking young man. Later
on he carried out his threat. The next
thing he knew was that he was on his back
in the street, and a constable was taking
him in charge. As the Yankees say, “he felt
sore,” so sore that he got angry, and, rising,
he smote and kicked the constable so severely
that the officer had to go to bed for six days.
At the critical moment another constable
appeared, and made things lively. The
accused was willing, and dusted the street
with the second constable. He was going
strong when the mild-looking conductor
smote him scientifically on the point, and
when he came round he was securely hand-
cuffed, and the two damaged constables
landed him in the jug without any serious
difficulty. The majority of Sydney tram-
conductors belong to the Tramways Athletic
Club, and are trained in the use of their
fists. They are not taught to box but to
rough and tumble. Generally the conductor
roughs and the abusive passenger tumbles —
first into the street and second to his mis-
take.
WISE PRECAUTION.
MRS. NEWRICH: “Ah, yes, but will it wash?”
“Black Sheep” : For family reasons, which
shall be nameless, I lately condemned my-
self to acquire some particulars concerning
the braw Scottish dynasty of Brown, which
was mostly John Brown and invariably
steeped in piety. There are sermons in stones
and good in everything, as a certain drama-
tist stated per medium of “As You Like It,”
and I discovered an interesting fact in the
life of the great original John Brown, who
ran a Jbranch business of the Scawtch Seces-
sion Kirk at Haddington. This Brown, born
in 1722, started life as a shepherd ooy. He
was a whale for study of the dead languages
and divinity, and in due course the self-
educated ex-shepherd' published a Self-Inter-
preting Bible. But previous to this, as a
young man—in 1745 or thereabouts —he had
applied for a certificate of church-member-
ship, which “the court of the congregation”
THE ETERNAL
MATCH.
G. L. Jessop, the Gloucestershire smiter, has en-
tered the clergy school at Leeds as a student for
holy orders. —News item.
OLD NICK: “Play!!!”
refused on the suspicion that he had “ac-
quired his learning through a compact with
the Devil.” A lovely illustration of the
attitude of Holy Toryism towards the edu-.
cation of the masses.
A concoction, that Victoria's Board of
Health is taking a mild interest in, further
emphasises the desirability of the Common-
wealth insisting that the ingredients of
every blatant medicine shall be stated on
the bottle or package. The contraption
purports to be “the remedy for the world;
cures blood-poisoning, pleurisy, pneumonia,
erysipelas and all inflammations, typhoid
and other fevers, and cancer in all its
varied forms.” Analysis showed it consisted
of mostly water, a certain amount of starch
and some scraps of borax. The price of
this precious remedy for cancer, typhoid
and other ills was not stated, but the paten-
tee would probably be satisfied with a
modest half-crown per bottle.
“Billy T.”: Re immigrants. A suburban
contractor friend of mine got in tow with a
couple last week. “I want men
badly,” said he. “What can you
chaps do?” Then up spoke the
sturdy toiler in the riding
breeches and the Baden Scout
hat: “I can walk on ’igh stilts,
guv’nor, and ’e can go round
with the ’at,” said he. Another
two who were looking for open-
ings in Melbourne pubs, re-
cently, had brought a ravishing
new trick from Europe, and by
its agency they hoped to simply tear money
oft the ingenuous Australian. It was played
with thimbles and a pea.
What the Japanese papers call “regret-
table incidents” have occurred in connection
with the late elections. Mr. Kusaha, con-
servative candidate for Wakamatsu, seems
to have left no worm unturned to get into
Parliament. He bribed the postal olßcials
to hold up all his opponent’s letters; he
bribed the police to arrest’’his rival’s can-
vassers on various charges; and he armed
his own canvassers with revolvers. On
polling day his minions attended at the
booths and threatened to shoot straight if
the electors _ didn’t vote straight. “Mr.
Kusaha,” it is reported, “was returned with
a considerable majority.” The Tokio news-
papers say that the scandals were not
nearly so bad as at former elections!
THE STRIKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was announced in a telegram from Venice on
Wednesday, that the gondoliers of the Grand Canal
had gone out on strike. — Cable.
The bright Italian moon
Shines on the long lagoon,
And illuminates the Palace of St. Mark;
And the Campanile's bells,
And the old Venetian smells
Are blending and ascending through the dark !
(Oh, harl:!)
’Tis the joyous note we hear
Of the merry Gondolier—
In his gondola he twangs the light guitar;
Care to Blazes he has cast,
And his gondola is fast
To the doorstep of a two-centesimi bar!
(Oh, look!)
And he grins a happy grin
At his wine so red and thin,
And he grounds the bar, and yells a loud Hooray;
For he’s out on strike (you bet!)
And the minimum is set
For fourteen hours, at one-and-four a day!
( Oh, my ! )
You can hear the tourists yell
Up and down the Grand Canal —
They can stop there till the moon sets, if they like!
Venice streets are very wet,
So the minimum is set
And the gondoliers are bound to win the strike!
(Oh, yes !)
N -S.w.
AN ENRAGED TOURIST.


mm
mu
m
ħj
Keep your Table
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
OIREOTIONG ROUND EACH TABLET.
NO. 87- GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,'*
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 57.
CAUSED MOTHER SLEEPLESS NIGHTS.
“Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy completely cured
my children of a dreadful chronic cough, which
caused me many sleepless nights. J called in the
physician, but they did not improve with the medi-
cine he prescribed,” says Mrs. J. Woods, of Utilcu,
N.Z. “My sister-in-law advised me to get Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy, and after the first few doses
I could see that they were getting great relief, and
were soon completely cured.”*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
che proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
r
1
4
Riding Breeches and Leggings
The Breeches and Leggings we feature to-day are mostly hand made, and we
can with every confidence recommend them to men who demand the utmost
in value for their money. /' •••• .
Riding Breeches, Grey and Brown Tweeds ...... 25/-
Riding Breeches, White and Corded Indian Moleskin 25/-
Riding Breeches, Indian Khaki Cord 22/6
Please state waist and seat measure, and length from waist to knee,
and then on to middle of calf, when ordering!
Puttee Leggings, in Grained Pigskin ... 10/6
Tan Dressed Calf 14/6
Please give measure round thickest part of calf when ordering.
Men's Wear Catalogue on Request.
PEAPES (SL CO.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-11 George Street, Sydney.
The North Sea fisherman who staggers
about on a frail, wooden craft, and hauls
the cheap salt food out of tlie depths, never
knows liow many hundred warships are
blundering round him in the mist and fog.
But he doggedly pursues liis humble, wet
calling in the sure knowledge that two
immense, watchful and heroically reckless
fleets are exercising and rehearsing for the
inevitable hour of combat. He doesn’t mind
so long as they miss his matchwork bulwarks
by the width of a herring, and refrain from
steaming through liis precious nets. But
they don’t always refrain. A week or so
back, a chorus of Dutch howls split the fog
when something like 100 British fighting
craft foamed along through the nets of the
fish-farmers of Holland. It must have been
a liarrowing cruisers,
destroyers and submarines smoking proudly
and swiftly . past on a sea thrashed white,
and wild, raw Dutchmen in ridiculous gar-
ments, -dancing and screaming on foolish
little craft which rolled and pitched heavily
in the- 'confused water. The North Sea
fisherman's lot is only comparable to that of
the man who tries to grow potatoes in a
prize A'ihg while the preparations for the
big congest -are ;being made.
' \ ■ :\ * '*
Sydney’s old maritime friend, the steamer
Changsa, rblled into port last week,- and
landed a few people who saw Spruce Myth’s
gamboge friends in action during the recent
political boil-qver in Canton. The proceed-
ings are described as “indescribable” —
which must stand for a good deal seeing
that the eye-witness fneutioned the murder
of womfen and children almost cheerfully.
Presumably those who were murdered
plainly p.nd promptly, with rifle barrels
thrust against their bodies, were the lucky
ones. Whilst gathering his baggage toge-
ther, the returned voyager mentioned that
the murderers khew all about Australia’s
Alien Restriction Act, and promised “all
sorts of vengeance”; also that they were
not granting any concessions, to foreigners—
not even to Spruce himself. When the white
passenger 1 staggered thankfully down the
gangway on to the upper crust of his un-
guarded continent, the reporter accosted one
of the 52 Chinese who came back on the
ship. And the poor exile of Cathay said
with tears in his voice: “Me glad come home
again—l belong Sydney now, my word!”
It was over the above-mentioned political
boil-over, by the way, that a British press-
man tried to sell The Bulletin some photos
of Chinese executions. They were mostly
crucifixions, and ■ the women had their
breasts sawn off, while the knee-pans of the
men had been hacked away. No business
was done. Also,'/very little lunch was done
in the office that day/
THE NEWEST SECURITY.
SNITH : “Lend us a fiver, old man. Want to
get married."
SMYTHE : "How do I know I'll ever see it
again? ”
SMITH: “ I'll assign you our interest in the
first birth bonus."
Random Reflections by “Briny”: Curious
the delay in the construction of the cruiser-
battleship Australia, and the protected
cruisers Sydney and Melbourne. The ships
were to be finished in August or September,
and sent to Australia before the end of this
year. Now it is declared they will
not be here even by April 1, 1913,
when the English ships leave and
the Commonwealth accepts full re-
sponsibility in the matter of naval
defence. The Australia has been
launched (builders: Brown and
Cos., Clydebank). The Sydney, by
the Glasgow Engineering Cos., is
not yet launched. The Melbourne
(Cammell, Birkenhead) has been
launched, but its completion
will be at lesist three months
behind contract date,
August 17. War-Min-
ister Pearce has made
urgent representations
to the Admiralty to
hurry on the contrac-
tors —which Liberalism,
in accordance with the
habits and customs of
Party Government,
will inevitably ascribe
to a desire to score at
the elections, by the
stirring-up of navy
enthusiasm. On our
side there is delay over
starting with the
cruiser and three de-
stroyers at Fitzroy
Docks. The crews of
the Sydney and Mel-
bourne will each be 401),
the Australia about
600. Engines, of fsyuney and Melbourne, 26
knots capacity; Parsons turbines, driving
four shafts, each available either for ahead
or astern. All turbine forgings made at
Sheffield.
* * * *
“Iyles Innison” : Feeling a dumb, aching
spiritual hiatus, I wandered into Alexander
and Chapman’s show in the Sydney Town
Hall. According to the unreliable daily
papers, the magnetism of these Yankee soul-
savers was unprecedented, irresistible, un-
canny. But I was disappointed. Those
booming daily papers proved to be the leg-
pullers I’d always suspected them to be. I
heard some very ordinary singing, accom-
panied, or interspersed, or emphasised, or
something, by Alexander’s Vociferous right
foot. I looked around me to’see how the
leaven of grace was working. The man on
my right, his face ambushed behind a wil-
derness of whiskers, was asleep. Immedi-
ately behind me someone, who had evidently
tendered a large coin for a hymn book, was
accusing one of the salesmen of giving him
the wrong change. Then Chapman preached.
I had been told that a theological platitude
never passed between his lips. I could
understand why. He spoke through his nose
—mainly about “Noo Yark.” At the end of
the last lap he requested all those who, felt
the seed of salvation germinating to stand.
A few assumed the semi-perpendicular —hesi-
tatingly and uncomfortably, as though the
floor was laid with hot bricks. Then Chap-
man spoke an advertisement about a book
that could be bought at the door for a shil-
ling. The man at my right woke up from
behind his ambuscade of whiskers. “A won-
derful man,” he observed.. I concurred,
grabbed my gamp, and running the blockade
of what seemed like 17,000 salesmen offering
books at a bob a time, I passed out into the
sunlight.
* * * *
“O.C.G.” writes: —
The decision of the U.S. courts that Harry Thaw,
the murderer of Stanford White, is insane, ought to
end . a criminal scandal by Thaw’s detention for life.
The spectacle of Thaw, the luxurious, non-moral
Pittsburg millionaire, walking about, a free man
among men, after his cold-blooded and atrocious
murder of Stanford White, man of genius and alleged-
debaucher—such a spectacle would have caused the
godly to scoff and the ungodly some cynical indigna-
tion.' Perhaps it is just as well for Thaw that he
can’t get out, for the dead man’s friends are many
arid long-memoried, and the odds would have been
; against Thaw living to claim the Octogenarian Club’s
, gold medal. Thaw (who escaped electrocution by
swearing, or getting others to swear, he was mad)
will be punished either way. If he is mad his pun-
ishment will be tedious; if he isn’t mad it-will be
hideous.
The Victorian Artists’ Society grows
crudely commercial in its old age. Its smoke-
nights of yore were free, gratis, and enlight-
ened gatherings which strove to pay the gas
bill by the profit on liquor consumed on the
premises, the society for the nonce being an
unlicensed victualler who sold drinks, or en-
gaged a law-breaker to supply the waht.
There is no such lawless Bohemianism now-
adays. Teetotal patrons of art brought no
grist to the mill, anyhow. If they drank not
nor purchased cigarettes, there was no wealth
in them. Under the up-to-date system, the
Wowsers provide the prof, whilst the thirsti-
est Souls presumably represent a dead loss.
Last Saturday night members were exhorted
to come at the Galleries and bring then-
friends. The invitation card said “No money
will be taken for refreshments, but an
entrance charge of one shilling will be made
for each guest. Lady members are asked to
pass their cards, on to Gentlemen Friends.”
The simplicity of the artist nature is sweetly
expressed in the suggestion that every young
sister of the brush should send her best boy
to a smoko on a Saturday night, that he
might be happy- “on ffiis own” for a “bob,”
instead of shouting her to the theatre.
* * * *
“A.B.” leans over the office bar, and muses
grimly':—
And so the ketch Candidate, and her crew of half a
dozen, have gone where most of us said she would
when the first big blow smote her. The little
hooker was a rare survivor of the mosquito fleet that
staggers up to the N.S.W. Northern rivers behind a
southerly and back again with a north-easter astern,
carrying logs and sawn stuff for the Timber Com-
bine. Every year sees one oi* two of these frail craft
lost or “sold to the islands,” and fortunately they
are not being replaced. This is the second crew that
the Candidate has drowned. About 16 years ago it
turned over off the coast with fatal effects. The hull,
or coffin, was recovered.
TALKED OUT.
HER : "I suppose Mrs. Nutt will sing for us
to-night .”
HIM : “I don't see how she can. I came home
a bit late last flight, and she's been as
hoarse as a frog ever since."
On July 24, 1862, McDouall Stuart
struck the Indian Ocean or the Arafura Sea,
being the first known white man to cross
Australia, south to north, and next day he
hoisted the flag. So Adelaide, which had
equipped him and sent him off the previous
December, last Thursday banqueted the sur-
vivors of that expedition. For a jubilee,
they rolled up surprisingly well. Stuart him-
self lived only to 1866. His right hand was
crippled just at starting, he covered much
of the distance in a litter, and on his re-
turn he was a wreck. Kekewick, Water-
house, Thring and Frew are dead; but Auld,
Billiatt, King, Nash and McOorrery survive,
and all but Billiatt (who is in England)
were present at the banquet. They have
done much better for themselves in after life
than most explorers (Pat Auld, for instance,
founded the big wine business that is named
after him) ; but Premier Peake announced
that a sum would be put on this year’s esti-
mates to increase the comfort of any of the
veterans who need it; also that certain new
“hundreds” in land now being cut up would
be named after them. At the banquet were
shown a shoe of Stuart’s horse, made into an
inkstand, and (in a bottle) a scrap of the
dried meat carried by the party in Central
Australia. Adelaide already has a statue of
Stuart in Victoria Square, facing that of
Colonel Light, the city’s founder; and pro-
poses to finish off with one of Sturt, whose
pupil and great admirer Stuart was. In fact,
the hill which is nowadays always called
“Central Mount Stuart” was actually named
“Sturt” by the younger man on discovering
it; but, all things considered, the modern
name seems the more fitting.
“Iyles I.”: I took a stroll down Lil’lee
Bourke-street, Melbourne, on a recent Sab-
bath night, and beheld one of the most
grotesquely pathetic futilities of the age. A
group of missionaries, aided and abetted by
three or four elegantly-dressed Chows, was
noisily endeavoring to “save” the residents
of the almond-eyed thoroughfare. A dozen
or so white men stood around, talking
mainly about the previous day’s horseracing
and football. An endless procession of
Chinks went up and down the dimly-lighted
street. They walked straight through the
circle of grace, and seemed totally unaware
of the missionaries’ existence. Some of
them, I discovered later, were going to meet
tbeir lil’lee whi’ girls in the awful blind
lanes that intersect “Chinese Avenue.”
Others were off “to play the game.” Right
opposite the meeting an old Chow sat in the
recess of a hallway and smoked a long
opium reed. If the music and the testi-
monies outside reached his crinkled ear .he
made no sign. But it was plainly evident
that no white god could bring him the peace
of mind that he sucked through the hiatus
of the reed. Yes, if any inquisitive person
really wants to see the most stupendous
futility of Melbourne’s many and assorted
futilities let me recommend Lil’lee Bourke-
street any Sunday night. Why those mis-
sionaries persevere is one of the world’s
mysteries, for I don’t believe that they save
a Chinaman’s soul in 275 years.
* * * *
“John Dishragge”: Marianne left us
about a fortnight ago, and proceeded to the
altar. Now the wife and myself are grap-
pling with the housework and inserting
cries for help in the “Situations Vacant”
column. The cries have gone unanswered
so far, and we continue to broom, and dust,
and wash up, and dash broken victuals into
the sadly overladen dustbin. I make fires
gladly enough, and sweep the yard with
something approaching enthusiasm ; but the
washing-up maddens me —also the missus.
Night after night I am struck by the way
our conversation degenerates whilst juggling
with greasy water and slippery crockery.
No matter how cheerful we are when we
start we quickly begin to speak uncharit-
ably of people—mostly better-off people with
servants. We magnify our own troubles,
speak ill of departed Marianne, repeat all
current scandal concerning those in high
places, and hang up the washing-up tin with
a crash, convinced that the world is a rotten
place. Messing about with broken food and
soiled plates is ruinous alike to intellect and
morals. I don’t mind much so long as it
isn’t my intellect and my morals. Suppose
you don’t happen to know of h girl who is
willing to sacrifice these luxuries in return
for 14s. per week?
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
A house historic will come under the auctioneer’s
hammer towards the end of August—Byron Lodge,
Randwick, originally built by Isaac Nathan, a dis-
tinguished musician, who was the composer of
Hebrew Melodies. He was a friend of the poet who
sang about wine and Greece, hence the name given
to the house. He was father of the late Dr. Nathan,
and grandfather of Alfred Nathan, solicitor and vocal-
ist, and of the wife of the University Chancellor, Nor-
mand MaeLaurin. John Tait, of much turf fame,
occupied Byron Lodge for many years, and on a
trade adjoining the house were "trained most of his
famous winners. When John Tait gave up racing he
sold Byron Lodge and went to live at Lewisham on
the Boulevard.
BACKING OUT.
“And do you ever think of marriage, Mr.
Loanlee? ”
“Oh, yes, often —with a shudder !”
That exhaustive person, Victoria’s police
chief O’Callaghan, has given up expatiating
on the diminution of crime and the effici-
ency of the force. The latest feat of the
gangs of thieves who pervade Melbourne has;
been to lift a large section of the cargo of a
coastal steamer lying peacefully at the
wharf, the said section being enough cases
of raisins and currants to fill several carts,
and valued at £250. Probably the buccaneers
would have lifted the steamer itself had they
known a reliable buyer of steamers, houses
and similar awkward property. In fact,
the blessed wharves, and even the Yarra,
would very likely have been prigged before
this had a trustworthy receiver been avail-
able.
WANTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GENTLEMAN, going up country, wants Lady
companion (30-33) ; widow preferred. Address
No 9, Sun Office. — Sydney advt.
As this is in the Sun
Of course it can’t be shady:
A gentleman (for fun)
Requires a Perfect Lady!
n.s.w.
O. C. C.


ĵh
of ' S " Kubs *«"fla) mer-
tions In W ‘ th busineßs "connec-
and Rplk Urne * Hor *ham. Sydney
Zy Sjf a Il B «* a " (l f,e 18 told thar he
sUmoMhs and chi,d w “ h Wm
«itS T' Provided he sells out
•aken him PeH ° d lnterests which have
any yearS t 0 huild up. and
M “ feet ?„ r BaCred dUSt ° f *“««»* from
--w^sr hl£h " e
—“Argus."
"Every WeHer i*» t >, s Tjuclnecc
S«t7CC Worv»e A for jVn'ga^ti’o^.’-
op B^ c »s Ass” A+^e
Annual dinne*'),
(Eewtie
me Dow+ dliVe-
oeT °\ %S-
J
IrngifTon ma^mo
&
'lire
9 1
'•fcfcclr l
He W *V
. fc<t>osvb'lifv of TrowDlt nr
ifie; l‘^jp r aJ ,v y
ato neio'M>< 3U, 'Voo < *
e <? 4 4 CvfxnV'V
WliQKe. fffe,
SSS; , n«.
Ssfisa. decided
K Ai y
) Thru
I —-
ifAlivf
fSw' ■
jh
Z.EAi.'jh
-4#
o o-o v
tV/
ny
y/7
'Y y
ify** %tri <
s ***r t e/ %«1
'ec7T ot>s
A
«”
P£ O 9
v you lliye Sj>oJ"2»j>l nere, rnyb oyT'-
yes, v'he'e 1 Keeb *>} Liberal /r.'trci}>les
A\ore es|>ec»a% precautions he&dlong le^islartibi)
/YStence.
Sssltoulcl on &
f
Further restrictions of the ha " n ki "«
area of the city were agreed to on the
recommendation of the legislative co,„.
mittee. The hawking of mark.stable
commodities is now prohibited in 1 H i
ders-street, from Elizabeth-street
Market-street. and in Kli»<lo.^-lono »..-l_
Little Collins-street from LU/abcth
street to Queen-street. a
Spruce M r Speaker J *se ~hwie Is.
./erf" - ripe !
Tite A^or . —"AAove on -wrtfs
fruit; City Council oot” fo
one j?rb<>resyVe policy, zoiyTiow.
MOSTLY FEDERAL MATTERS.


NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Diamonds Reduced
Enormously.
Some time ago we started the experiment of selling
Diamonds at a Broker’s Commission on landed cost,
and we purpose continuing to do so for a further six
months.
Onoioe Diamonds, set in Platinum, £l2/12/-
We have taken on a Sole Agencv that calls for an enormous output, and we have to live up
to it; and so, to increase our already large output, we are offering the best-class Diamonds at
prices never before attempted.
We think the increase of customers and the great advertisement will pay us eventually.
pAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET^
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
GO AND GONE.
HEBE: “But you always said you liked a
woman with a certain amount of go about
her.”
TANKER: " Yes, but it's different. You see,
my wife has gone with another man."
“E.S.S.”: “The returning exiles!” said a
passenger, in allusion to himself and companions, as
the coach extended the dull, grey miles behind us,
and the veil of haze was drawn over the austere face
of Tongowoko and its neighboring counties. The
people of the eastern, southern and northern regions
were wont to style that part the Gates of Purgatory,
and term its inhabitants the exiles of Outback. But
the speaker was not as happy as a stranger to that
land of surprises would have expected; and one of
the returning exiles, a lady, was crying—crying be-
cause she was leaving for ever the pregnant, brooding
spaces where the sun goes down. They had gone to
that corner to make money, with the intention of
getting out of it again as speedily as possible; and
subtly, unconsciously, the place had gripped them.
Not with joy, but with a pang of regret, they saw
the glinting rock-caps of Mount Browne disappear
behind the obscuring curtain. A more striking con-
trast to the cold green isles beyond the Atlantic
could hardly be imagined; yet English, Irish and
Scots were scattered all over it, a great many of them
in a position to purchase an estate in their native
land, and to live well on the interest of their money
for the rest of their days. But you couldn’t drag
them out of it. Australians, too, who had tasted
the sweets of the coastal climes, turned back, in spite
of all the disadvantages, to that siren with the aus-
tere countenance and burning tresses. We sai as
much to the man who had called us “the returning
exiles,” and he closed the argument by saying they
were mad. Two years afterwards he was carrying
between Wilcannia and Warri Warri the extreme
corner ; and carrying, out there, was about the most
trying occupation he could have engaged in.
“Old Drover” deposes: “The worst kind
of stock to travel with is pigs. If you take the bad
travellin’ points of the turkey and the goose an
mix ’em together, the pig can still go one worse.
You can’t lead or drive a mob of pigs like any
other animals. They go along grunting an’ rooting
an’ foragin’ all the time; you’ve got to work every
yard of the way to keep them movin’ on the right
track. Stop a minute an’ they’ll stop; try to
bustle them an’ they’ll split in all directions an’
say ‘Whugh.’ An’ when they come to a bog or a
waterhole they’ll plough in an’ lie there. You can
shout yourself hoarse, an’ caper around an’ pelt ’em
till you’re knocked up, an’ all you’ll get from them
is a grunt. They don’t take much notice of dogs
either; they stand an’ smack their chops at a dog,
or run backwards and say ‘Whugh.’ You’ve got to
go in an’ root them out; if it’s a hot day, an’ they’re
a bit tired, you’ve got to pretty well drag them out.
An’ they’re not animals that keep any regular hours.
They don’t stampede at night time, and they get up
at any hour to go rootin’ about for something to
eat. A black pig is hard to see in the dark, an’ he
goes moochin’ off so quietly that it’s the simplest
thing out to lose him off camp. On long trips you’ve
got to take one or two waggons piled full of pump-
kins or corn. You camp at a good watering place,
an’, after a feed of pumpkin or corn, they’ll settle
down fairly well for the night. In the morning,
when they’ve got used to the track, they’ll be nosin’
an’ gruntin’ around the waggons for breakfast, an’
makin’ trouble with the cook. They’re always ready
for tucker-time; you can make ’em finish a hard
day well by going ahead an’ ringin’ the dinner bell.
I carried a big football on one trip. When they were
extra cantankerous I’d get away in front, call out
‘Pig, pig, pig!’ an’ start bouncin’ the ball hard.
At the second thump I’d hear ’em cheering, and then
they’d come along, with their ears flappin’, as if
there was nothing they enjoyed so much as brisk
trottin’ exercise on the overland. They thought I
was breakin’ up pumpkins.”
* * * *
“Vagabond”: The “creeping sand” of
Raglan, on the West Coast of Maoriland, is a weird
sort of nuisance. It
has climbed the side
of a hill at the en-
trance of the . port,
flowed up over the
shoulder and down
again round a shal-
low valley. It is now
rapidly ascending the
next hill, which is
good pasture land. It
isn’t blown on to the
places it infests, so
far as one can see; it
just clambers hungrily
up out of the sea, and
flows gradually but
persistently over the
face of the earth. If
you plant a brick wall
or a bulldog in its
path, so much the
worse for them. They
are buried with expe-
dition and despatch.
The local theory is
that the sand is the
continuation of the
bed which rises up
and forms the bar
outside the entrance,
and that the breakers
beating on the bar
keep jostling the
grains of sand along
over the bed, till
they’re crowded out on
to the beach, and the
continued push-on
movement keeps shov-
ing the grains upward
and onward. How-
ever, the theory of
the tragedy doesn’t in-
terest the local farm-
ers. The sand being
no earthly use to bird,
beast, fruit or flower,
the problem which
concerns them is how
to check its onrush.
“Billy T.” : Lara is the Victorian national
amphitheatre where the local dipso, conducts gladi-
atorial ' combats with his personal devils, and van-
quishes them with great slaughter. I once met a
couple of salvaged alcohol-lovers, on their way from
Lara to a life of teetotalism. Their converse impres-
sed me. “Never again, Ned,” said the more earnest-
looking of the pair, leaning across the railway carri-
age to tap his friend resolutely upon the knee. “Not
on your life, Horace.” “The hell broth nearly did us in ;
but we’re done with it, old sport.” “For good ’n’
ever.” They shook hands on this much with an iron
grip. “See here, Horace, I wouldn’t give that for a
tubful.” “Ned, I could screw the neck of a bottle
of Scotch and pour it over a dog.” “I don’t want
it.” fit’s gone clean out o’ my life.” “Filthy
muck!” “Bilge!” “When I think of the good lads
it’s outed”—“When I see the cross between a rooting
hog ’n’ a sick cat it makes of a man”—“l could take
a bundle of bombs, ’n’ blow down every pub in crea-
tion.” “I feel I’d rather wear a sack in a monkery
for the rest o’ me days than get back to the old bar-
roosting game again.” They parted affectionately,
with further declarations of their determination to
lead the simple, salubrious life, having arranged to
meet for mutual congratulations a month later.
And meet they did in due course—but they were not
alone. Ten thousand yellow fantods, and gaudily
striped snakes, to the number of 757, were with
them; and the venue was Lara—the place they had
left in a cured state, a month previously.
RESTING ON HIS LAURELS.
MRS. O'ROURKE (pausing from her labors with the axe): “Shu re , yiss, Dinny used fer
to be the champeen axeman in the disthrick!”
NEIGHBOR: “ Then why don't he chop the wood for you?”
MRS. O'ROURKE: “Ah , goo wan wid yous! Shure, he do be retir-red!”
Descendants of one of the imported pests
that misguided people turned loose on this country,
are harassing Melbourne’s new Benevolent Asylum
at Cheltenham. The asylum bosses went to a lot of
expense to construct an ornamental lake, and
planted grasses, palms and shrubs round it; also,
they placed wild and tame ducks on the
A SURE THING.
TOURIST : “Any hotel in the township yonder?"
THE OLDEST INHABITANT: "Well, Mister , I
be livin' in that township. What do you
think?" ’
roof or table of the fluid. The old people
were to recline on the grassy banks and
admire the fowls; also, there was to be roast duck
on the menu when the natural resources permitted.
But the imported curse willed otherwise. lie dwelt
in the heathy country around, and wore a bushy
tail and an overpowering smell. Pervading the lake
at night he sampled a duck or two, and, finding
them palatable, ate the lot. The management grew
some more, and set a gardener on watch with a gun.
He had two shots. The first killed a dog, the
second nearly slew the manager as he went to in-
spect-the first victim. Ducks are now off at Chel-
tenham, and the directors are stocking the lake
with fish, eels and other edibles. But it doesn’t feel
sure that some imported abomination won’t pre-
sently happen along and eat them, too.
“Pakiri” : Three years ago a partner and
I ran a flax-mill out at Mangakahia (Maoriland).
We cut out the green flax for a distance of 50
miles up and down the river, cleared a swamp or
two, and then looked round for more plunder to feed
the stripper. There was a lake, away up on Maori
ground, with something like 2000 tons of splendid
flax grdwing on the banks. We’d had
our eye on it all along, so we went up to
interview the chief. Old Titikowarau
was discovered in a slap-up bungalow,
and we did, or tried to do, our business
in a drawing-room furnished in very-
good taste and supplied with good pic-
tures and a first-class piano. Young
Titi was reading for his 8.A., and the
old man’s daughter was a graduate of
Te Aute College. We offered him £2OO
cash for the right to the flax, and pro-
mised to give as many of the tribe as
liked the chance of cutting at 7s. a day.
It was no go. “T’at lake tapu,” the old
chap said. “Suppose te Maori go cut,
Taipo come out, ketch ’im in te scruff
an' hoi’ his head under till he dead. No
fear. Plenty taipo t’at lake. Full of
taiposl” (ghosts). We sprung the price
another £5O, and offered to get whites
to do the cutting. The old man’s face
went chalky-white under the temptation,
and his fingers twitched to handle the
notes. But he was staunch. Old Titi
departed suddenly for Te Reinga (or
elsewhere) six months afterwards, and
his son reigns in his stead. Others have
been after that flax since, bettering our
price; but the Maoris won’t part. The
young chief’s B.A. degree is modern, and
his clothes are modern, but his religion
is the old article. He won’t admit it,
and he gives no reason for refusing to
make money out of the haunted lake,
but he is thinking of the old hereditary ghosts just
as his father did.
“Tamumu” tells how ITenare wpnt duck-
shooting:—“You know te lake at Te Auk? All ri’ ;
one time me and Wi go there to shoot te tuck. We
paddle te canoe all over te lake, but te tuck he clear
out too quick every time, before we can get te shot.
By-and-bye we see te big log floating o-n te lake, and
I say to Wi, ‘No plurry good this way. I go on te
log, and te tuck he no frighten then ; he think me
all te same te log, and I get plenty shot.’ Wi he
say, ‘All ri’ ; so I get on te log, and Wi he go away.
Long time I stop on te log, but I never get te shot.
I think this te por game, better I have te smoke.
So I get te knife and te tobac, and I fill te pipe. I
think now I get te good smoke, but I never get him.
I stick te knife in te log, and, by cripes, te log he
dive, and I dive too —he not log at all; he te plurry
big tuna (eel). By korry! I swim ashore quick. I
never like to be all te same that fellow Jonah.”
THE MODERN MAGDALENE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Considerable discussion arose at a committee meet-
ing of the Agricultural Society yesterday concerning
a motion dealing with the definition of heifer in the
show schedule. There is a difference of opinion
amongst exhibitors at local shows as to whether a
cow under three years having a calf is a heifer or a
cow. It was eventually resolved that all female
cattle under the age of three years, with or without
calf, should be termed heifer.
—A N.S.W. country news item.
O sainted Cow, we did not mean to hurt
Your dignity, or tarnish your good name;
We did not mean to say you are a flirt,
Whose gay flirtations culminate in shame.
We beg your pardon. If we gave offence,
It was because we were a little dense.
But lest your sister—poor unfortunate!
Should pluck the blossoms from the primrose
ways—
So narrow, and ordained inviolate,
We’ve made this written law for when she strays:
Although her feet forbidden-ward shall go,
She shall be counted pure as Alpine snow.
Should Fate and Nature secretly decree
That prematurely she her prince will find,
To all things, save her stainless pedigree,
We’ll ever be con-ven-i-ent-ly blind.
No Mother Grundy shall covertly spy
Upon her loves, to shame her by-and-bye
We shall not see the token of her fall;
But rather shall her tumble be divine.
She shall not taste abandon’s dregs at all;
But laurel tendrils shall her horns entwine.
’Tis true mere mortals wear no diadem
For sin—but you’re superior to them.
Henceforth you’ll wear a halo all the time;
We’ve glued it on your spike-surmounted head.
You’re Simply Perfect; no clandestine crime
Shall weigh upon your virgin heart like lead.
Forgive us if we dared imply a taint
Was on your character; for you’re a saint.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


Hotel
A ustra/ia
TARIFF:
From 13 - per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band\ngaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert even-
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of gmests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlei'eagh Street, Sydney.
GREAT OAKS FROM LITTLE ACORNS GROW.
That dread disease, Consumption, has its com-
mencement in a cold on the chest. Don’t leave it
until it is too late. You can promptly remove your
cold with Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Is. 6d.
and 3s.*
hj
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
LIKE MANY OTHERS.
Mrs. Julia Wakeley, 78 Ball Street, Wanganui, N.Z.,
i s rich, and cannot have the doctor’s opinion for
slight complaints, and, therefore, does the next best
thing, and keeps a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy in the house. She says: “I have
always found Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea
Remedy an absolutely safe cure for Colic and
Diarhoea. For many years I suffered from colic pains,
but Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarhoea Remedy re-
lieves the suffering at once.”*
h
Veal and Tongue
Pate
I* made for those who want
something with which to make
good 11 meaty ” sandwiches. It
Is quite as tasty as the famous
Ham Pate, though It costs a
little (ess.
Ask your grocer for a tin or
two. Each tin holds a quarter
of a pound.
FOCCITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
“Kodak”: It was in that curious region
called Back-o’-Sunset that I encountered them again.
The blatant ruin of a gentleman bellowing outside
the booth I at once recognised as A. William-
Cann “The Australian Hercules ” was none
other than Jimmie Pannikin. A. W.-Cann,
after bragging in the most reckless fashion of his
humble confederate’s marvellous strength and en-
durance, called upon Hercules to come forth. Where-
upon there stepped into view the most bashful and
bespangled, and (if I may say so) the most betighted
human being I have ever seen. He looked about
him with a ghastly grin, and then, at the bidding of
his brutal master, started to go through certain un-
easy contortions with A. W.-Cann alleged were muscle-
making inventions of his very own. Meanwhile he
read out in a pompous voice the alleged best per-
formances of the unhappy Pannikin: “Hercules has
thrown the hammer 100yds. A world’s record!
Hercules has supported nine horses on his chest for
10 minutes. A world’s record! Hercules has run
100yds. in Bsec. A world’s record!” He only de-
sisted when a dirty youth asked him “if ’Ercules
had ever pulled his leg, and if it was another
world’s record?” However, he covered his confu-
sion by announcing “Hercules, the real ‘White Hope,’
will now give a demonstration of punching. So
terribly strong are his arms that no living fighter
can hope to survive a round with him. If Johnson,
whom we are now after, can be induced to enter the
ring, rest assured, gentlemen, that the Championship
of the World will come back to the race that pro-
duced Wellington and Nelson.” This magnificent
speech won over the crowd again, and the tall and
bulky-looking Pannikin, who had been pulling on a
pair of punching gloves, bowed almost cheerfully and
turned to the leather-faced machine. A respectful
hush fell on the company as he raised his meaty fist
to strike. A. William-Cann leant excitedly forward
and peered at the dial. Crash! The machine stood
unmoved and Pannikin stepped back with a jarred
expression. But Cann leaped into the air and
shouted “Eight-een hundred and forty pounds! Gen-
tlemen, a world’s record!” The announcement was
received with laughter and applause. Cann was
about to enthuse some more when a small, insignifi-
cant navvy climbed clumsily into the ring without
invitation, and asked if he could have a punch.
Cann looked at him and laughed in a condescending
way. “Cer-tainly, my man! Cer-tainly! ” The
crowd sniggered and A. Cann flushed and said some-
thing under his breath. The navvy slowly peeled off
his coat and revealed a sort of awful baboon’s back
fitted with branch-like arms. Carefully folding and
placing his filt;:y garment in his corner, he limped
up to the punching machine and carefully read all
the records printed on its face. Then, with a
patient, ape-like look, he considered his knotted
right hand and spat into it more in sorrow than in
anger. Followed another suspicious look at the
waiting machine, a quick, indrawn breath and a
crashing HIT! The face of the murdered old
machine fell forward; the back tottered backward;
and its steel entrails rattled and clattered all over
the stage. “Another world’s record!” howled the
amazed navvy, his nobby fist upraised. “No !” thund-
ered A. William-Cann, darting forward. “NO record!
The machine is destroyed! What proofs have you
that you have made a record ?” The indignant
crowd fairly rose at this; but the swindled navvy
simply pointed at the ruins. The honest old ape, or
whatever he was, relied in his innocence on William’s
sense of justice to admit his claim. “No record!”
howled the desperate old fraud. Pannikin all this
time was looking extremely unhappy in a remote
corner. “No record” persisted the scoundrelly old
showman; till at last it dawned on the navvy that
he was being done. With a roar of rage, and a
reddened eye, he lumbered straight at Hercules.
Heaven only knows what would have happened, had
not a weedy little woman pushed to the front and
screamed, “ ’Ere, don’t yew ’it ’im ! I ain’t goin’
ter pay no more fines for yew! Yew come ’ome!”
The navvy stopped dead on the verge of murder,
wilted at the knees, and shambled guiltily towards
his unclean coat, while his frail little wife watched
in an agony of anxiety. When at last he clambered
safely out of the ring and stood miserably at her
side, she sniffed hysterically and started to upbraid
the badly-shaken A. W.-Cann and his terrified Hercules:
“Yew orter be ashamed o’ yerself!” she whimpered.
Gettin th’ father o’ eight ter risk ’is life competin’
with yer champeens an’ yer world’s record-ers.” The
crowd roared, but she went straight on, to the utter
confusion of the alleged strong man and his mana-
ger. “Wot’s goin’ ter become o’ me an’ them
eight kids if that there ’ulkin’ brute Herculers goes
an’ breaks ’is back for ’im ? W’y, a big, ’ammer-
throwin’ beast like that’s only fit ter ’sociate with
bullieks an’ things! Let ’im go an’ put some more
’orses on ’is big, fat chest if ’e wants ter make more
of is records, not go an’ get fathers o’ famleys ter
risk their precious lives ! W’y my man’s only outer
’orspittle two weeks—’e ain’t got ’is strength back
yet! An’ yet yew go matchin’ ’im with That! Yew
orter be ashamed o’ yerselves!” She then led her
husband away amid shrieks of merriment, and A.
William-Cann roughly shoved Hercules into the booth.
Can nothing be done to rescue Pannikin from the
clutches of this sinister old man ?
“Vulcan” : King Billy’s lady, who fre-
quently puts through her “interesting, event” job
in-a few hours, is by no means a lone circumstance.
A band of gipsies struck Uralla (N.S.W.), some
time ago. One black-eyed dame sought free pro-
vender from a local storekeeper, on the ground
that she had given birth to twins the previous night.
Inquiry proved that she was no liar, and she got
the fodder as a sort of reward for valor.
A BUSINESS HE KNEW.
SLUM MISSIONARY : " Can’t I persuade you to give
tip this idle, sinful life? Come and join us
and be a laborer in the vineyard
SLUMITE : “Well, it sounds all right, but I ain’t 'ad no experience o’ vineyards. Now,
if you'd said a brewery I’d ’a’ jumped at the job.”
“S.S.S.” writes of lovely ladies: —“There
was Katarina, the Samoan, whose age would be after
30, and whose skin was slightly shrunk; yet she
looked and was of the Blood Royal. She walked
proudly into the little Island hospital, raised the
hem of her calico robe, and graciously indicated
where an “unhappy, grief” had resorted to her knee.
Katarina was that despised and rejected She, a
Samoan missionary, more or less nigger and wholly
barefooted. Yet we all felt that the making of her
medicine was no matter for a mere dispenser. The
overworked little doctor himself made her a! liniment,
and I a drink medicine. And when Katarina graci-
ously inclined her head by way of thanks we were
well paid. It was our humble tribute to the Sopl of
Beauty.... Marea, of the golden eyes, smiled sleepily
from her Manila mat under the frangipanis that blos-
somed above the little sandbeach beyond the scintil-
lant blues of Torres Strait. Gold were her eyes,
rose-ivory her skin, dark as the bronze on a bird o’
Paradise wing her rippling hair.’ At this loveliness
one gazed stare-eyed, in silence, as one gloats over a
perfect picture, and went away. There was nothing
to keep one. Her gift was beauty, without charm.
.... The 1 third I met in a Binundele village, some-
where south in Papua. Black she is, as the ace of
spades—a dusky Persephone, with wicked, mournful
eyes that she probably clutched from Cleopatra. She
is somewhere about 16, and has married—Papuan
fashion—and “chucked away” many, many men; and
many many men await that same fate. With poin-
sianas in her hair she sits and “sings” (it is like a
dog howling) on a hillside; and the men laze along
from miles around to listen—and, incidentally, learn.
Hers is the compelling charm of Absolute Individu-
ality. So it is in Papua and the Islands, as it is
everywhere else and ever was. Mere prettiness is
paltry. Beauty, without charm, is skin deep. Charm,
with or without beauty, is Supreme.
“W.8.H.” : Dunno about the rest of Aus-
tralia as a breeding ground for snipe, but I do know
and attest that the birds, or some of them, rear their
offspring in a swamp not 200yds. from where I am
writing this (Bundarra, N.S.W.). I have caught
plenty of young ones, either in the warm sand where
they delight to sun-bathe, or in the tufts of grass
where they hide when disturbed. And to this I take
my solemn and profound cuss, and attach my seal in
the presence of witnesses, as required by the Act.
“N or M”: Never heard, excepting from
“Tura” (B. 30/6/’l2), that there was such a thing
as a rabbit-cat, but I know the ’possum-cat, which
is not an excessively rare beast. Strange to say,
the hybrids are fertile. I have seen specimens with
characteristics almost entirely feline. A habit of
laying the tail flat along the back, ’possum fashion,
instead of half-masting it as an ordinary cat does
ELIMINATION OF EXPENSES.
“ You're looking pleased, old man."
“Yes! Just made twenty pounds."
“How did you manage it?"
“ Oh, just shifted. Tradesmen, you know."
when crowded for room, was the most noticeable
difference. The first cross is, I believe, frequently
more ’possum than cat; the ears are rounded and
the fur has the peculiar ’possum bushiness, color and
smell. In one instance I knew of, the hybrid—a
bushy, short-legged beast—developed an inconvenient
taste for green peas, and became such a nuisance in
the garden that he died of old axe, which is worse
than galloping consumption. Another kitten of the
same batch had a curled tail. Cats sometimes adopt
and rear a ’possum joey, but that is not advanced as
a proof of affinity, for I have known a tabby to
mother an orphan chicken and two young ducks, and
almost wear her tongue out in an effort to keep the
family tidy.
THE OLD HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the town of Wagga Wagga, at the Golden tee
Hotel, ‘ b
’Mongst a lot of pleasant fellows after shearing time
I fell.
They were rouseabouts and shearers—some had come
from Mangoplah,
Some from Coree, some from Yanko, some from
Boomanoomanah.
There they talked of sheds and bosses, of damp
weather and of drought,
Strikes and cooks, and all the other things that
shearers talk about,
All save one who sat in silence on a cask behind the
door,
With his bluey in the corner and his eyes upon the
floor.
He looked careworn and dejected, so I went up to
his side —
“Have a drink, old man?” I asked him. “Righto,
matey,” he replied.
And we drank, and had another. Tom the barman
shouted, too,
And the liquor seemed to cheer him; for more
talkative he grew.
But he shook his head and answered—when I asked
him: “Do you shear?”
“ ’Twas a game I useter foller once, fer four months
every year.”
And he spent the rest, he told me, “earnin’ tucker,
weed an’ booze,
Up at Tumba-blanky-rumba, shootin’ kanga-blanky-
roos.” J
Then that man of many summers, who went shearing
as a youth,
Loosed a string of quaint bush logic that eohtained
a shred of truth:
“Times is changed, and men’s changed with ’em
things ain’t what they useter be,
When the old hands did the shearin’. Very few are
left to see.
Then we useter travel peaceful, packhorse cornin’ on
behind,
An’ if we’d to do some waitin’, well we never seemed
to mind.
“With a sort of cheerful music all the coves came
driftin’ through,
Jinglin’ hobble-chains an’ quart-pots, an’ a concertina
too.
Then the river-bends would echo to the chorus of our
song—-
Do you ever hear them ditties now, when shearers
pass along?
Nowadays its all a bustle, each one racing down the
track,
Just as if the very devil was a-proddin’ at his back!
An’ it seems to bring dejection—ah! I never had the
blues
Up at Tumba-blanky-rumba, shootin’ kanga-blanky-
roos.
“Yes; them other days were peaceful. Then a change
began to come;
On the old tracks leading shedwards you would hear
a kind o’ hum.
Then a cove would mizzle past yer, with a bluey on
his back,
Workin at his flamin’ pedals, like a spider on the
track.
An’ the fellers seemed to alter till the bush was
altered too—
But I’ll say this in their favor—to the union they
were true!
“An’ new changes kept arrivin’ till one day I seen
a tyke
Ruffin’ down the road like blazes on a gruntin’ motor-
bike !
you talk of toffs i —l didn’t have to travel very
far
When I seen a mob of shearers in a stinkin’ motor-
car !
An’ I knew the old-time shearin’ was a feature of the
past;
For the blades could go to smoke-ho !—the machines
was holdin’ fast!
An maybe you’l, live to see ’em makin’ time to
beat the trains,
Spdedin’ high above the dust-clouds in them flyin’
aerjqalanes!
Then there came a strict injunction ’gainst the
slayin’ of the ’roo.
He was gettin’ scarce an’ scarcer, an’ it had to
come, we knew.
It was proper to protect him, so we didn’t make a
fuss;
For we knew that he was goin’ like the native blacks
— an' us.
An’ the little towns arisin’ here an’ there about the
bush
Filled the campin’ grounds an’ crowded out the good
old-fashioned push.”
T ° ' va f.'i’ lst a worn old-timer, relic of a bv-gone day,
With his plaint against the present—it’s the olden-
timer’s way.
And I could not judge him harshly; for remember
you and I
May be railing at fresh progress when a few more
seasons fly.
he said, “I must be moving,” as his spell
was nearly done—
He was rabbiting, it seemed, on Eunonyhareenya
run.
But he wished that he was going, as we had a final
booze—
“ Back to Tumba-blanky-rumba, shootin’ kanga-
blanky-roos.”
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


THE OLD APPEAL.
The proposal to establish a Federal Government woollen factory at Geelong has aroused certain N.S.W. members to infuriated protes .
THE BOGEY MAN’LL GET YOU IF YOU DON’T WATCH OUT.


DR. SHELDON'S NEW DISCOVERY
Is the most wonderful remedy ever discovered for the
>cure of Coughs and Colds. It will relieve you when
all else has failed. Is. 6d. and 3s.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
durability.
Splitting headache, can t think, can't see, nervous
all day? Stearns’ Headache Cure gives almost in-
stant relief.*
TO PRINTERS—AN ABSOLUTE
BARGAIN.
NEWS TYPE FOR SALE.
5001 b. 10 point Old Style.
5001 b. S point Old Style.
7501 b. Minion.
7501 b. Nonpareil.
This type is in case, in splendid condition,
and has never been used except for stereo
purposes. Miller and Richard foundry.
Also, 100 pairs type cases in excellent
order.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
-14 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
. Andrew Lang, the Jack-of-all-sorts of
literature, had some relatives in Australia.
Dr. W. H. Lang, of Corowa (N.S.W.), is
his brother. He, too, dabbles a bit in ink,
being the father of a novel called “The Thun-
der of the Hoofs,” an Australian yarn
which was never classed among the best
sellers. He has also executed a number of
tales and articles—mostly in staid weeklies.
Dr. P. H. Lang, of Lismore (Vic.), and
John Lang, of South Yarra, are both
nephews of the deceased Andrew.
“Harrison O.”: The Australian Ministry
is at present confronted with the serious
question of what to do with its O’Malley.
From the start, the long-haired Canadian
and rather bloated landlord has provided the
Tory press with more pegs upon which to
hang derisive animadversion than any three
other Laborites. His weird extravagances
and whirling oratory are bringing the party
into contempt, at any rate with many of the
unattached voters to whom he and his friends
owe their present positions. The preposter-
pus rhodomontade perpetrated by O’Malley
in the debate regarding the appointment of
Chinn to a transcontinental railway billet,
was the Wild Eagle’s most bizarre effort to
date. It was made up mostly of muck
worms, Pawnee maidens, guinea-pigs, blow-
flies, hybrids, Don Quixote, Sancho Panza
and other highly relevant circumstances. It
was _ altogether _ a fine example of vulgar
futility. And it was especially regrettable
coming from a member of the party which
has always set the standard of manners in
the House as against such shining, not to
say, deafening, Tory lights as Ryrie and
Willy Kelly.
BILL MASSEY, MAORILAMD'S
NEW PREMIER.
In the Governor’s Speech at the opening
of the S.A. Parliament a reference is made
to the death of a former Minister. The sen-
tence is added: “The family of the late
Judge was offered the honor of a State
funeral, which was respectfully declined ”
The family naturally didn’t want to be
buried even under such distinguished con-
ditions.
h£«U' “„f M 23/7/ f l2:-^° tiCe “ M S ' M '
ROSS.—A tritmte of memory to our dear father,
Joseph Ross, who died at Erskineville, July 23
1909, aged 7S years. He was the pioneer glass
manufacturer, and made the first pot of glass in
Australia, at. Darling Harbor, Sydney, on the nieht
of August 18, 1866, and on that night his son
Ihomas was born. “Surely he hath left his foot-
prints on the sands of time.” Inserted by his sons,
Ross Bros., glass bottle manufacturers, of Erskine-
v. If^ and n b S hls „ son Thomas Ross, director of
Vance and Ross Proprietary Ltd., glass bottle
manufacturers, of Alexandria. ■
ieg U up^° eS le ass bottle industry get a
A ‘ Dobbie ’ def id in Adelaide at the
age of bS, was one of South Aust.”s typical
all-round religious men. Bike many of the
Orow-eatmg importers, he was manufacturer,
too, and he made his pile in the solid Metho-
dist manner. Incidentally, he was brilliant in
science. His telescope lens, ground by him-
self, was one of the three best in the State,
lie made, himself, the first telephone used
in Australia. And he had separate and
special reputations as a curative hypnotist,
a photographer, an electrician, and an
authority on garden blooms.
. Oddest Inhabitant discourses about
old inhabitants:—
The will of George Ilenry Greene, late of Mount
(N.S.W.), has been proved at
±.83,93,. Mr. Greene was the fifth son of William
Pomeroy Greene, of Collon House, County Louth
Ireland, who, with his family and a number of re-
w r p.T gratC „ d ’ in a ship chartered by himself, to
I ort Phillip He settled at Woodlands, about 13
miles from Melbourne, in 1845, and died the year
following. His only daughter married the late Chief
Justice Stawell, of Victoria. Mount Oriel is a new
louse, built at a great cost. In it the testator wishes
his widow, friends and relations to live, should they
feel inclined, the up-keep to be defrayed out of the
personal estate. The great success of the Mount Oriel
Property, of late years, is due mainly to
wheat-growing on .shares. The late Mr. Greene was
the first to establish the system.
“S.T.S.” : Rc the deceased Andrew Lang.
It was he who wrote the famous London
Daily News yarn in 1884, begnning: “The
Champion Mean Man has often been the
subject of imaginings by Transatlantic hum-
orists. The London police are at present
searching for him.” And then it told the
story. Murdoch and Co. had collared the
English bowling at the Oval, the day before.
It was the celebrated innings in which every
man tbe side went on to bowi.
and brace personally filled every position in
the field, finally taking the gloves when
Lyttelton took them off. The stumper some-
how succeeded where the regular bowlers had
tailed, and took a bunch of Australian
wickets. Meanwhile a well-dressed man (who
was never caught) called at his house in a
cab. The Hon. Alfred Lyttelton would stay
to dine at the Oval; please send his dress
clothes and overcoat. They were handed
over—and never heard of again. “Mr. Lyttel-
t°n ls engaged in Saving his Country,” wrote
Andrew Lang; “and the Champion Mean
Man chooses that precise moment to sneak
his overcoat.”
Dear Bulletin,— l thought I noticed a
new acquisition to the House of Representa-
tives lately. A Mr. “Elliott” Johnson.
M. has been writing letters to the
press, and signing himself that way. Can >'t
be my old friend W. E. Johnson, the rabid
Single-taxer of the days of yore? There
seems to be a fashion growing up now of
discarding plain John and Bill as a political
or social name, and using a pompous second
name. It is an English device. When
“Bill” Reeves went to London from Maori-
land he was for some time Mr. W. P.
Reeves. Then he became Mr. W. Pem-
ber Reeves, then Mr. Pember Reeves,
and finally Sir Pember Reeves. He
halted on the threshold of the hyphen, so to
speak, for he was not so rich as the Tooths,
who became the Lucas Tooths, and then the
Lucas-hyphen-Tooths with a baronetcy.
Then there was my old friend plain Jack
Brunton,. the miller. - With a boom in flour
he became Mr. J. Spencer Brunton, and now
he has dropped the J., and develops into
Spencer Brunton. Another peculiarity in
Australian snobs “at ’ome” is the new pro-
nunciation of names. Thus, the Timothy
Coghlans have been disguised as the “Coai-
ans.” This lore will probably help to ex-
plain who Mr. Elliott Johnson, M.H.R., is.
Otherwise people might have thought he was
a new member.—Yours, Locust.
“Andrew Hogg” writes —and The Bulle-
tin cordially endorses :— i
What is wrong with filling the vacancy on the
N. S. Wales Public Service Board with a man who
has personal experience of country conditions ? In my
opinion the practice of handing over every attractive
job—whether in the Lands, Education, Justice De-
partments or what not—to city-dwellers, has been
largely overdone. Good men of the sort required are
easy enough to find. For example, Donald E. Fraser,
some time known and occasionally reviled, as “Jim-
mie Pannikin.” Fraser has a splendid record as an
inspector of schools. He has been an upholder all
his official life of Australianism as opposed to the
Decayed Fish cult, that was so fashionable in the
Civil Service until quite recent years. Long before
the Labor party interested itself in the question of
child slavery, “Pannikin” was plugging away on be-
half of the unhappy little servitors of the cow-bail;
and he has stuck to that nationally valuable, though
thankless, job ever since. He has been assailed pub-
licly and otherwise by agriculturists of the Patten
class—Patten, by the way, is president of the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’ Ass., the body which Minister
Griffith asserted was composed mostly of agents and
squatters. Also, he has been cursed, with the utmost
heartiness, by Tory farmers, who hold it as an article
of faith that they have an inalienable right to work
their offspring to, death, if so disposed. Yet he has
gone placidly on denouncing and exposing bucolic in-
justice, with voice and pen, which is an indication
that his courage is all right anyhow. It is this type
of forceful, far-seeing and patriotic citizen that is
most needed on Public Service Boards and elsewhere.
The McGowen Government will do the State (and
more especially the country parts thereof) a notable
good turn by appointing Donald E. Fraser,
Amongst the deaths recorded last week
was that of Mrs. Sadler, widow of Edward
Sadler, a Sydney native, and one time an
identity in cricket, politics and pubs. He kept
the Miners’ Arms in King-street, Sydney, next
the stalls entrance to the Theatre Royal, and
in coming dqwnstairs one morning fell and
broke his neck. Walter Baker, the well-
known actor, is a son of the couple. The old
lady had passed her 80th year.
Wilbur Chapman, the Yankee evangelist,
stated the position of his troupe with seemly
meekness, last week :
Who would have the Salvation Army out of exist-
ence ? It does what I can’t do ; it works while I am
resting. So do all the churches.
There is something inspiring about the con-
ception of these spiritual bellowdramatists
taking alternate watches with the Church
Militant, here on earth.
“Lud” writes:—
Devonport, Tillett’s aversion, is Ivearley by his
right name. Unpaid chairman of the Board con-
trolling London port, but, of course, he lias mighty
interests to look after. Lipton’s rival in tea and
grocery, and the tea-planting industry of Ceylon and
Assam. Ivearley started as office-boy in a London
tea-house. Set up as a merchant at 20 years old.
Skilful buyer, blender, traveller and book-keeper.
JNow has establishments all over the world. Entered
Parliament in 1892 for Devonport. Evinced par-
ticular knowledge of everything related to London’s
water front. Prime Minister Bannerman made him
a member of the Administration as Parliamentary
Secretary to the Board of Trade. Had the great task
of carrying through Parliament the arrangement by
which the London docks passed into State possession.
Received a baronetcy, seat in Privy Council, and ele-
vation to Upper House. Parliament voted £4OOO a
year for the president of the Port of London, but
Devonport has stead lv refused to touch anv pay He
has a country seat at Marlow, another in Wales, and
is a great authority in the London Reform Club
Nevertheless, his language has been exasperating. Set
a thief to catch one and a working man to tyrannise
one About the biggest tyrant Tory English con-
ranks 1S k° rci Joicey, who rose from the toiling
NORMAN BAYLES,
M.L.A., OF
VICTORIA.
Among the McGowen Government’s pro-
posals for the new session is an increase of
the salaries of N.S.W. members. The sug-
gestion might come with a better grace if it
dicin t emanate from a Cabinet which, despite
cill its increased taxes and its huge borrow-
mgs, can’t keep out of the boghole of deficit
but that is a small matter. The main
point is that no increase should be allowed
I s P asse< i making it a punish-
able offence for any politician, during his
term in any elective House, to subscribe to
any religious, social or charitable movement
in his electorate—to contribute to churches
(barring his regular pew-rent, and not more
than bd. for the plate), cricket or football
clubs, race-meetings, sports of any kind,
widows orphans, beggars, drunks, or anv
form of charity whatsoever. Also, any
attempt to solicit the member for monev
should be punishable. Under the present
order of things, a very large proportion of a
members £3OO a year is reputed to go in
subscriptions of one sort or another. Some
give as a matter of real charity. Some give
out of careless generosity. The rest give in
order to buy votes —in other words, they are
blackmailed out of their salary under an
unspoken and unwritten threat that their
jobs will be taken from them if they don’t
pay. lliere is absolutely no guarantee*, under
present condtions, that even if the private
AN UNNECESSARY QUESTION.
Is it a fact that a member of the detective force
has been introduced into this House?
—Query in N.S.W. Assembly.
member’s salary is raised to £2OOO a year he
will—unless he is a very astute private mem-
ber indeed—rescue much more for himself
out of the debris of his remuneration than he
does out of his present inadequate £3OO. A
good member should be well paid, for he is
valuable, like a good bank manager or a
good railway official. But the biggest salary
doesn t necessarily buy the best" politician
if the politician doesn’t really get the salary
—it may simply buy the one who is sur-
rounded by the largest crowd of cadgers.
And that is not exactly what is aimed at.
It is too much like paying an extra price for
the bit of meat that lias the most flies run-
ning after it.
♦
A time like the present is often an Indian
summer sort of period with the banks. (The
Indian summer, it may be explained, is the
American term for a period of especial calm-
ness, beauty, warmth and radiance that
conies at the end of autumn, just before the
snow arrives, and the bottom falls out of
everybody’s contentment. It has some rela-
tion to that period when a beauty begins 'to
be described as a ‘'well-preserved woman,”
and isn’t yet called “the remains of a fine
female. ) When the boom is fading the
banks have to push up their deposit rates
in order to get money. They also shove up
their lending rates. But the increased in-
terest paid doesn’t cost the banks much for
a while. They hand out an extra \ per
cent, on the new deposits that come in, and
on the old deposits as they are renewed, but
it takes a year or two for all the old cheap
deposits to fall due for renewal. Also, the
current account money is still non-interest-
bearing as usual. On the other hand, the
price of advances goes up promptly all
iound. Thus for a while, at the beginning
of a period of gloom, there are big profits;
the money which a bank lends brings it in
much more, and the money that it borrows
costs it, for a time, hardly any more. And the
slump in the value of the bank’s securities—
the slump that always comes at such a time,
and which, in the end, usually eats up all
the extra earnings, and very often eats them
up several times over^ —has hardly begun yet.
It the depression arrives in real earnest, the
institution is liable to find that it has, in
many cases, been only adding an extra £1
per cent, on paper to a borrower’s bad debt,
and that a lot of the apparent new profit
never existed, but during the Indian summer
that is a case for the future. In theory,
and as a matter of appearance, the Indian
summer is _ a pleasant interval in financial
circles. Still, it is the sort of interval when
many a bank manager begins to notice an
BROTHER CHINN.
AKFRED: "That's right , Cooksey. On the point
every time.”
accumulation of grey hairs or an extension
or the ravages and dilapidations of his bald
spot. He is something in the position of a
shipowner who is glad that his vessel is
heavily laden because it is earning more
money, and at the same time is darned sorry
it is so heavily laden because he sees bad
weather ahead, and fears that either the
vessel w’ill go down or a good deal of the
cargo will have to be thrown overboard.
ON THE RETIREMENT OF O’CALLAGHAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chief Secretary states that Mr. O’Callaghan
is quite ready to retire as soon as the Government is
ready to replace him. The difficulty, Mr. Murray
adds, is to get a suitable man. —News item.
When falls the baton from thy trusty hand,
A sigh like some expiring wind shall pass
Along the ranks of each broad-arrowed band,
And through the magsmen scattered o’er the grass.
Indoors and out each brow will furrowed be,
And on each man grey Care will set its trace.
One more O’Callaghan we cannot see!
Who will they get to fill thy topmost place?
A silence falls—likewise the penal tear ;
Another heart as kind does not exist;
Behind each “wanted” one may stalk blue Fear—
Steel bracelets deck each cold, unwilling wrist.
The shroud of Joy is wove on Sorrow’s loom !
Alas! Time Sikes has cracked the crib of Doom !
N.S.W.
CONSTABLE WINKING.
THE NEWEST “HOPE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
According to the Sydney Sun, a difference o,
opinion between Colonel Rvrie and Senator Gardiner
was to have been settled by Marquis of Queensbury’s
rules in Snowy” Baker’s physical culture rooms.
But, to the great disappointment of a large audience
of legislators, the mill failed to eventuate.
Ihe game of politics is growing stale ;
We’ve wearied of the old cross-firing tale;
The bandied insults and the mutual jeer
Have grown monotonous upon the ear.
We now demand more value for our cash—
So hail! you legislators who can bash!
E’en Wood, escorted past the Speaker’s chair
To breathe the chilly, vacant midnight air,
Grows wearisome. A hurtled glass or two
No longer charms us as it used to do.
But Fate our lust of carnage satiates
With promise of two slugging heavyweights.
And, maybe, later on there will be scope
To find within our Parliaments a “hope”
To pit against Jack Johnson. He will bring
The scalps of all the negroes on a string C
Tied to his belt (a thing of dripping awe),
Because—poor fools!—they tried to hurt his jaw !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


AND
WORKERS
\SERIES y
10A
1 i
if
B
If
<\
It
r
n
n
i
,
c
mm
C
C
majLim
[ill!!!:!
Y
V
r*
liilliilliaHiiiiiiiiiiiifeiiL V- ~::
5320**
mmrnmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
The Man Who Plans and the Man Who Erects, Smoke
i
TOBBCCO
Australia’s National
Smoke
npHE architect who with brain and pen
plans cities, and the man whose nerve
and brawn materialises thought in wood
and stone, alike find solace and content-
ment in the pipe of smooth-smoking HAVELOCK
CUT (IN TINS) FLAKE OR MIXTURE. ALSO IN PLUG FORM.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
“THE EDWARDS” ORE ROASTING FURNACES
ECONOMY IN LABOR, FUEL AND MAINTENANCE.
Write for Catalogue and Prices to—
FRASER 8 CHALMERS, LTD., London; STEARNS-ROGER MFG. CO., Denver, U.S.A.
T. EDWARDS, Ballarat, Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. oe Syd-
ney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1904.. £65,570 10 p.c. =£50,000 £15,570 £1,091,359
June, 1905.. 65,204 10 „,, 50,000 15,204 1,106,593
Dec., 1905.. 65,263 10 „,, 50,000 15,263 1,121,856
June, 1906.. 66,022 10,,,, 50,000 16,022 1,137,878
Dec., 1906.. 67,982 10 ~ ~ 50,000 17,982 1,155,860
Premiums on new shares .. 42,713 1,195,573
June. 1907.. 71,800 lOp.c. = 50,000 21,800 1,220,373
Premiums on new shares .. 6,522 1,226,895
Dec., 1907.. 83,005 lOp.c. = 61,288 21,717 1,248,612
Premiums on new shares .. 765 1,249,377
June,l9oB.. 90,973 10p.c.= 62,420 28,553 1,277,930
Dec., 1908.. 91,706 10 „„ 68,184 23,522 1,301,452
June, 1909.. 104,438 10 ~ ~ 74,776 29,662 1,331,114
Dec., 1909.. 116,496 10 ~ ~ 75,000 41,496 1,372,610
June, 1910.. 117,000 10 ~ ~ 75,000 42,000 1,414,610
Dec., 1910.. 117,955 10 ~ ~ 75,000 42,955 1,457,565
June,l9ll.. 118,095 10 „,, 75,000 43,095 1,500,060
Dec., 1911.. 119,897 10 ~ „ 75,000 44,897 1,545,557
June, 1912.. 123,983 10 „,, 75,000 48,983 1,594,540
This bank has an important asset that is only men-
tioned at the foot of the balance after the totals
have been added up. It is referred to as T. A.
Dibbs, General Manager-—the remarkable old gentle-
man who has been piling up experience during a
record reign of 45 years. It would be worth a great
ileal to a bank to have that sort of head, even
though his head-ship were only nominal. In this
case it has given the Commercial of Sydney, a mana
which it could hardly otherwise obtain, and business
has consequently pushed itself in through its doors.
And when business gets into the habit of doing that
one can be pretty sure that the bank has a lot of
the best to pick from. The following little table
shows the principal results of that push in 10
years:—
Liabilities.
.Tune, 1902. June, 1912.
Notes & bills £1,016,822 £9n,742 Dec. 4.4 p.c.
Deposits . . 11,964,545 20,823,525 Inc. 74.4 „
Assets.
Liquid assets 5,488,156 10.268,095 Inc. 87.1 „
Advances .. 9,140,293 14,378,424 Inc. 57.3 „
Premises . . 445,462 537,178 Inc. 20.6 ~
Thus, while deposits have increased 74 p.c., the bank
has only lent out an additional 57 p.c. ; consequently
it has made the remarkable increase of 87 p.c. on its
liquid assets. This very strong position with regard
to liquid assets has been one of the features of the
balance-sheet for a good many years past. As will be
seen presently, advances have grown very much dur-
ing the past 12 months ; nevertheless, at the end of
June, no less than 47 p.c. of all the moneys owing
to the public were held liquid. The size of this re-
serve is of course comforting to the creditor ; at the
same time, it is a matter of much concern to the bor-
rowing customer as well. Australia is a country of
very big harvests and very little ones, of booms and
slumps; a country where a man is liable to be a
million or so in credit this year and to need an
overdraft of the same amount 12 months afterwards.
It appears to have been the deliberate policy of the
management to hold itself in readiness to make the
big advances which a turn in the tide would in-
evitably call for; and though an extra £1,892,801
of advances have been made since June, 1911, the
Commercial is still in a position to back up its cus-
tomer when circumstances require it.
This policy of holding large liquid reserves, while
it reduces the risks of everybody concerned, has a
tendency to reduce profits under normal conditions ;
consequently there is nothing very striking in the
following table, which shows the earnings calculated
on capital and reserves combined-
Dec., 1907 .. £6 14 7 p.c. June, 1910 .. £8 2 11 p.c.
June, 1908 .. 7 5 7 „ Dec., 1910 .. 8 110
Dec., 1908 .. 618 7 ~ June, 1911.. 719 8 „
June, 1909 .. 7 9 0 ~ Dec., 1911 .. 719 10 „
Dec., 1909 ..8 4 7,, June, 1912 .. 8 211 „
The last line somewhat overstates the facts, because
in March last the shareholders confirmed a resolution
to increase the capital by £250,000, and the bulk
of this money has since then come in, and been no
doubt put to use. As at June 30 the capital
was £1,718,594 ; the full amount, including the last
£250,000 authorised, will be £1,750,000. As a re-
sult of the addition of this new capital the propor-
tion of the public’s money (deposits, etc.) to share-
holders’ funds has been brought down to about £6
11s. to every £l. Certainly, one cannot expect de-
posits to go on accumulating as they have done
lately, but even a couple of good seasons would see
this bank holding more than £7 of the public’s for
every £1 of its own, and that would be the signal
for a further increase of capital. Times would, how-
ever, have to be very good, and internal reserves very
solid to justify a further issue at par.
Taking a quick view at the past 12 months’ opera-
tions, these results show up:—
1911. 1912.
Notes .. £317,521 £48,894 Dec. £268,627
Bills . . 1,053,478 922,848 Dec. 130,630
Deposits . . 20,090,168 20,823,525 Inc. 733 357
Liquid assets 11,539,087 10,268,095 Dec. 1,270,992
Auvances .. 12,485,627 14,378,428 Inc. 1,892,801
Premises .. 512,113 537,178 Inc. 25,065
As before mentioned, the liquid assets still represent
a very safe 47 p.c. of the total liabilities; and in
this, as in every other respect, the visible position is
one that calls for three cheers.
* * * *
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1903.. £60,445 15 p.c. = £56,250 £4,195 £118,906
June, 1904 52,187 15 „ „ 56,250 114,843
Dec., 1904.. 61,555 15 „ ~ 56,250 5,305 120,148
June, 1905.. 53,343 15 „ ~ 56,818 116,673
Dec., 1905.. 63,623 15 „ „ 59,284 4,339 121,012
June, 1906.. 56,237 15 ~ ~ 59,971 117,278
Dec., 1906.. 65,461 15 „ ~ 59,996 5,465 122,743
June, 1907.. 55,140 15 ~ ~ 60,000 117.883
Dec., 1907.. 65,436 15 ~ ~ 60,000 5,436 123,319
June, 1908.. 55,024 15 ~ ~ 60,000 118,343
Dec., 1908.. 65,013 15 ~ ~ 60,000 5,013 123,356
June, 1909.. 54,746 15 ~ ~ 60,000 118,102
Dec., 1909.. 64,012 15 ~ „ 60,000 4.012 122,114
Tune, 1910.. 18,081 15 ~ ~ 62,450 77,745
Dec., 1910.. 79,366 15 „ „ 63,750 15,616 93,361
June, 1911.. 68,244 15 „ „ 63,750 4,494 97,855
Dec., 1911.. 79,415 15 ~ „ 63,750 15,665 113,520
June, 1912.. 69,017 15 ~ ~ 63,750 5,267 118,787
This unfortunate company is in more trouble. It
can’t pay its dividend. The directors declare the
usual 15 p.c., but tell shareholders that the money
cannot be divided because the State Parliament has
not passed a Bill giving the co. further privileges;
also, the Treasury hasn’t yet got paid for the Kent-
street property, though why that should make any
difference, seeing that the co. still has the use of that
property, isn’t obvious. The whole thing is, of
course, a piece of transparent humbug. If tney
wanted to they could pay the dividend, and they
know it; but they want to make shareholders kick
their Parliamentary representatives, and, therefore,
they adopt a device worthy of a cheap showman,
rather than of the managers of a big and solid finan-
cial concern. In June, 1904, the company owed
£739,942, and there wasn’t a word about deferring
the dividend; now, with debts totalling only
£620,662, the dividend must be deferred. And
money is certainly much more plentiful now than it
was in 1904, while the co. is also in a far stronger
position. This sort of manoeuvring is not at all
likely to improve the status of the company in public
esteem.
The reserves shown above are made up of a formal
reserve fund ( £110,450) and unappropriated profits
( £8337). Besides these, there are premiums on
shares, £282,225; meter replacement fund, £18,258 ;
total, £300,483. Also, there is an unknown quan-
tity of internal reserves, consisting of undisclosed
profits invested in the business. The existence of a
large hidden fund of this character is quite plain.
Take the following comparison:—
June, 1902. June, 1912.
Book value of fixed pro-
perty and plant ..£1,217,074 £1,320,664
Gas sales, etc. (12 months) 377,854 650,047
Thus, 10 years ago, the plant was producing a re-
venue of 31.0 p.c. of its alleged value, whereas now
it is producing 46.7 p.c. The obvious explanation
of this remarkable difference is that during the 10
years very large additions have been made to the
plant, etc., out of profit, and, consequently, have not
been added to book value at all. If it took £1,217,074
of plant, etc., to produce a revenue of £377,854,
then, on the same basis, it would take £2,093,856
to produce £650,047 of revenue in the past year.
No such calculation can give a quite accurate view,
because works that produced £1 in 1902 might con-
ceivably be producing either 18s. or 225; 6d. now;
but the figures suggest something anyhow. During
the past 10 years Sydney has slopped over in all
directions, and the Gas Co. no doubt claims to have
kept up with the procession. Yet the capital (apart
from undisclosed profits) put into all the plant ad-
ditions to meet the increased consumption, has
amounted to only £173,590. If the truth were told,
probably half a million has gone that way, the bal-
ance, of course, being provided by consumers them-
selves. That is to say, in addition to providing the
15 p.c. dividend, consumers have added to the co.’s
property to the extent probably of £400,000 or
£500,000 during the 10 years. It is a gorgeous re-
sult ; it remains to be seen whether it will be
permitted to be reproduced indefinitely.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Australia,
which had a revaluation of assets in 1901, and trans-
ferred £144,500 of forfeited capital to reserves in
1902-3 :
Dividends
Profits. (3 p.c)
(less loss on Writ- Added
on Assets Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1904.. £38,746 £31,759 £15,521 £197,758
Dec., 1904.. 41,461 31,760 £9,701 207 459
June, 1905.. 39,470 31,760 5,000 2,710 210,169
Dec., 1905.. 42,530 31,760 10,770 220 939
June, 1906.. 41,055 31,760 5,000 4,295 225 ? ,234
Dec., 1906.. 44,351 31,760 12,591 237,825
June, 1907.. 46,423 31,760 5,000 u,663 247,488
Dec., 1907.. 51,678 31,760 19,918 267,406
June, 1908.. 52,015 31,760 5,000 15,255 282,661
Dec., 1908.. 55,217 31,760 23,457 306,118
Written off. £295,000 11,118
June, 1909.. 53,573 31,760 25,000 7 9:H
Dec., 1909.. 56,302 3*,'60 25,000 - 7 473
June, 1910.. 55,002 31,760 25,000)
£2OOO voted to Officers’Provident Fund ) 3,ilu
Dec., 1910.. 59,557 31,760 25,000 2,797 6,512
June, 1911.. 58,804 31,760 30,000 3,556
Dec., 1911.. 61,082 31,760 28,000 1,322 4 878
June, 1912.. 65,109 31,760 30,000) , . „„„
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident Fund /
This was the gorgeous bank of the boom. Even
while that madness was at its height it built itself
a palace in Collins-street, and the magnificence wasn’t
completed when a ribald small boy chalked upon the
front door the great truth —“Bung.” When the per-
fect bankers who ran the concern had put wet
towels round their heads, they realised that things
were so shockingly bad that to give the bank a
chance the most rotten part of the business had
better be transferred to a separate Assets Trust. This
co. took over a large amount of securities and a
corresponding amount of debt, the latter guaranteed
by the bank. Certainly, as it stood, the bank wasn’t
in a position to guarantee anything much more
ambitious than a hot-pie stall; but its position was
vastly strengthened by the conversion of £2,117,350
of liabilities (deposits) into preference capital. The
ordinary capital was cut down bit by bit, until it
now stands at £95,619, in 10s, shares. There
wasn’t much of the old capital left, therefore. Yet
in view of the terrific deficit, it is doubtful whether
any of it should have been left at all. The preference
capital carries a maximum of 4 p.c., and 2 p.c. of
this is cumulative. So far no more than 3 p.c. has
ever been paid. For a good many years past enough
profit has been made to pay the full 4 p.c., but the
bank has been busy filling up the chasm represented
by the Trust’s deficit. As at June 30 this deficit was
stated to be £902,956. Regarding the Trust and
the bank as one concern, the position is, therefore,
as follows:
Capital.. .. .. .; £2,212,969
Reserves. . . . .. . . 6,227
Total funds . ..£2,219,196
Less estimated deficiency in connection
with Assets Trust . . . . -. . 902 956
Capital intact £1,316,240
The first table shows how the bank has fared; the
next shows how the two together stand:—
Pref. Writ- To
Dividend, ten Reduce
Profit. 3 p.c. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1908.. £1,080,391
June, 1909.. £58,301 £31,760 £5OOO £21,541 1 058 850
Dec., 1909.. 66,711 31,760 5000 29,951 1 02s’s99
June, 1910.. 62,826 31.760 5000) OI ... , ’
Provident Fund .. 2000 f 1,004,833
Dec., 1910.. 66,035 31,760 5000 29,275 975,558
June, 1911.. 63,239 31,760 5000 26,479 949,079
Dec., 1911.. 61,991 31,760 5000 25,231 923 848
June, 1912.. 65,879 31,760 5000 1 9711 q „„„ 79Q
Provident Fund .. 2000 ) ' 7 ’ 119 896,729
This means that the bank has still to make £896,729
of profit in addition to the dividend, in order to
restore the capital, provided, of course, that the
valuations are correct. During the past 12 months
the deficit has been reduced by £52,350, and at that
rate of progress it will take about 17 years to com-
plete the filling up of the hole. There is a suspicion,
though, that the recovery in values has helped the
Trust, and, consequently the bank, more than the
published accounts indicate. The last complete valua-
tion seems to have been made in 1902-3, when the
present general manager took charge. Even then the
new man was not likely to have over-valued the
assets, and, generally speaking, values are at a much
higher level now. No one need, therefore, be sur-
prised if the Board has a considerable contingency
reserve up its sleeve; and unless some bad slump
happens that reserve should cut something tangible
off the 17 years mentioned above. This, however, is
merely supposition, and it is about a fair thing to
ask that a new valuation should now be submitted.
The question also arises whether it is incumbent
on the bank to make good the whole of the deficit.
Exactly the same result could be accomplished by
writing down capital. The difficult problem is to
decide on the capital to be written down. As men-
tioned above, pref. capital is limited to a 4 p.c. divi-
dend, and it has never yet had more than 3, while
ordinary capital has had nothing at all since the
small boy did the signwriting mentioned above. It
should not be impossible to arrive at a fair com-
promise between the two sections, so that the one
might forthwith have the present limitation re-
moved while the other got a taste at once. No doubt
the ordinaries think they will be in clover by-and-
bye. For instance, supposing the net profit of the
bank is £125,000 a year, a 4 p.c. pref. dividend
would absorb £84,694, leaving £40,306 available
for ordinaries ; and £40,306 on the ordinary capital
would amount to 40 p.c. That looks very luscious ;
but, unfortunately for ordinaries, they are outnum-
bered by pref. shares, and each share has the same
voting power. Prefs. are not at all likely to approve
of anything so luscious; their policy would rather be
to limit the ordinary dividend, and thus, by build-
ing up big reserves, make their own 4 p.c. secure
for all time. Besides, it cannot do a bank any good
to have it constantly proclaimed that it has a big
deficit on the premises, or to have the market reports
screaming every day that its shares are at a heavy
discount. Admittedly, this bank has done pretty
well, but it might have done a great deal better had
it not been obliged to make a daily exhibition of the
skeleton in its cupboard. This, for instance, shows
the Commercial of Aus.’s progress, compared with that
of the Bank of N.S.W.:—
1890. 1912.
Bank of N.S.W.
Capital .. £1,250,000 £3,000,000
Deposits .. 18,141,038 35,158,354
Advances.. 18,434,958 26,147,854
C. B. of A. :
Capital .. 1,024,942 2,122,969
Deposits.. 9,247,827 6,508,822
Advances.. 9,934,460 5,779,866
The next table shows how the principal items have
moved during the year:—
Liabilities.
June,’ll. June, T 2.
Notes £163,203 £21,216 Dec. £141,987
Bills, etc 551,662 682,120 Inc. 130,458
Free deposits .. 3,359,117 3,478,559 Inc. 119,442
Deposits at interest 3,013,625 3,030,264 Inc. 16,639
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 3,106,571 2,891,705 Dec. 214.866
Advances .. .. 5,697,276 5,779,866 Inc. 82,590
Premises, etc. .. 428,205 418,510 Dec. 9,695
Apart from the change which has followed the intro-
duction of Commonwealth Notes, there is nothing of
much importance in that. The total liabilities of
the bank run to £7,212,159; the liquid assets are
£2,891,705. Consequently the latter represent 40
p.c. of the former —a solid enough proportion. In
fact, the bank might on its present resources let out
a few thousands more without straining itself. Alto-
gether it would be a highly presentable balance-
sheet but for the occurrence of the ancient deficit;
and, as before mentioned, there are ways of burying
that gibbering skeleton out of sight.
* * * *
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) :
Works Written
Charged off
to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profits. Dividends. venue, etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June,'o4.. 45,971 9 p.c. = 38,574 6,901 575,842
Dec., ’04.. 51,941 9 ~ ~ 38,574 19,293 1,434 568,482
June,’os.. 52,588 10 „ „ 42,860 4,207 3,207 570,796
Dec., ’05.. 56,565 10 „ ~ 42,860 4,841 4,660 575,000
June,’o6.. 54,324 10 ~ ~ 42,860 10,672 3,101 572,691
Dec., ’06.. 60,833 10 ~ ~ 42,860 13,651 4,291 572,722
June,’o7.. 60,713 10 ~ ~ 42,860 12,376 5,167 573,032
Deo., ’07.. 65,181 10 ~ „ 42,860 16,926 5,238 573,189
June,’oB.. 66,848 10 ~ ~ 42,860 31,076 3,760 562,341
Dec., ’OB.. 72,737 10 ~ ~ 42,860 15,850 5,526 570,842
June,’o9.. 84,831 10 ~ ~ 42,860 17,219 8,286 587,308
Dec., '09.. 76,280 10 ~ „ 42,860 23,605 11,693 585,430
June, TO.. 71,955 10 ~ ~ 42,860 32,157 4,468 577,900
Dec., TO.. 93,701 10 ~ ~ 42,860 18,809 33,052 576,880
June,’ll.. 97,255 10 ~ „ 42,860 21,333 26.855 583,087
Dec., ’ll.. 105,170 10 ~ ~ 42,860 28,223 27,563 589,611
June, T 2 .109,437 11 „ ~ 47,147 28,923 27,627 595,351
The reserves mentioned above are made up as fol-
lows -
Premium on shares . . ~ £466,535
Formal reserve fund . . . . 84,093
Meter renewal reserve .. ~ 20,581
Unappropriated profit , . ~ 24,142
Total £595,351
Six months ago a calculation was made here showing
that this company could pay its 10 p.c. dividend and
provide for renewals, even though its net revenue
was reduced by one-fifth. The management evidently
came to the conclusion that the time was ripe for a
reduction in the charges, but it didn’t knock off any
one-fifth; it merely offered consumers the small
mercy of a reduction, amounting to one-twelfth. Syd-
ney thinks itself badly enough treated when it has
to pay 3s. 9d. per thousand feet; Melbourne, in
spite of its company’s last burst of generosity, has
still to pay 4s, 7d. Of course, coals have to be car-
ried a few miles further to reach Melbourne, but
when they are in the ship’s bottom those few miles
are not a sufficient justification for an additional
charge of lOd. per 1000 ft. of gas. The Melbourne
company works under an Act which provides that it
may pay a 10 p.c. dividend when it sells gas for
7s. per thousand, and for every reduction of ljd. it
may pay an additional \ p.c. From this it will be
gathered that the co.’s Act is entirely out of date,
and offers no protection worth mentioning.
For years past the co. has known that it is skating
on thin ice, and the fear of something drastic has
done what the law failed to do, and steadied the
rate of dividend. But while this fear of drastic
action has steadied the dividend, it has not sufficed
to steady the profits. The company, instead of divid-
ing the money available, has used its surplus over
and above 10 p.c. to pay for new works. In 1904
the expenditure on works charged to capital account
was £2,149,842 ; the total now is £2,182,737.
Thus, only £32,895 of capital has been spent on
works since 1904. Meantime the profit in a half-year
has increased from £48,971 to £109,437. From
these figures alone it will be plain that either the old
works have become vastly more remunerative, or a
great quantity of new works have been paid for out of
profits. As a matter of fact, the company does not
go to much trouble to hide this expenditure, and the
first table, compiled of course from the co.’s
accounts, shows the profits that have been absorbed
in this way. In the past three years £132,584 has
thus been provided by the consumers; this is in
addition to large amounts spent on reconstructing,
and no doubt improving, works, as well as upon re-
newals of all sorts. The result of the past year’s
work is somewhat like this:—
Dividends (101) p.c.) .. ..£90,007
Put into new works .. .. 57,146
Reconstructing works, written off,
etc 55,190
Added to Formal Reserve .. .. 12,264
Total profit for the year £214,607
From this it will be seen that though the rate has
now been put up, the dividend consumed actually less
than 42 p.c. of the profit. The other 58 p.c. was
socked away in the shape of new works, etc. Admit-
tedly a small part of this was written off, but the
bulk of the depreciation is provided for independ-
ently, being charged direct to Revenue Account. The
company has by such methods put itself into an extra-
ordinarily strong position ; and it may be difficult to
shift it. The Act previously mentioned provides that
the municipalities may buy the whole outfit, on pay-
ing six times the amount of the last three years’
profits, and on that basis the purchase price might
easily reach £3,000,000. Yet, even at that figure,
it looks as though it would pay Melbourne hand-
somely to make the deal.
The City Bank of Sydney:—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serve*.
June, 1904.. £9,045 4p.c. =£B,ooo £1045 £4,65a
Dec., 1904.. 6,158 24 „ „ 5,000 1158 5,8il
June, 19u5.. 6,060 2* „ „ 5,000 1060 6,871
Dec., 19u0.. 6,U68 2j ~ „ 5,000 1068 7,939
June, 1906.. 6,066 5% „ „ 5,000 1066 9,005
Dec., 1906.. 6,049 '24,,,, 5,000 1049 10,054
June, 1907.. 7,066 3„ ~ 6,000 1066 11,120
Dec., 190/.. 7,205 3„ ~ 6,000 1205 12,325
June, 1908.. 7,098 3,, ~ 6,000 1098 13,423
Dec., 1908.. 7,030 3„ „ 6,000 1030 14,453
June, 1909.. 7,055 3,, ~ 6,000 1055 15,508
Dec., 1909.. 7,088 3„ „ 6,000 1088 16,596
June, 1910.. 9,063 3£ „ „ 7,000 £lOOO 1063 17,659
Dec., 1910.. 10,130 4 ~ „ 8,000 1000 1130 18,789.
June, 1911.. 10,047 4 ~ „ 8,000 1000 1047 19,836.
Dec., 1911.. 11,059 4£ „,, 9,000 1000 1059 20,895.
June, 1912.. 13,102 5 „ „ 10.000 1500 1602 22,497
It is 17 years since tiie shareholders got so large a
plum out of tins pie. While other ana stronger
uanks were closing their doors and driving bargains
with their creditors, this one was able to pull through
after a fashion. Without a doubt it would have
been better oh if it had admitted its losses and
made all or most of them good by writing oh capi-
tal. Instead, it set itself the long and dreary job
of making good the deficiencies out of future profits.
Very likely if the public had not known that any-
thing was wrong, the job would have been a com-
paratively easy one; but not knowing how bad the
position really might be, possible customers at the
bank stood off and as a rule business only turned
into the City after it had been turned down by
other concerns. Luckily the prosperity of the past
few years came to its assistance, and the increase of
the dividend to 5 p.c. may be taken as a hint thai
in the management's opinion the old dead horse has
been pretty well removed from the premises, and
tuac the assets are now worth very neariy as much as
the accounts declare them to be.
As the situation has improved the bank naturally
finds it easier to do new business ; and it is helped
along that road by some fairly solid supporters. The
following figures show some considerable movements
during the year:—
Liabilities.
June, 1911. June, 1912.
Deposits £1,637,602 £1,890,900 Inc. £253,298
Notes . . 68,813 12,783 Dec. 56,030
Assets.
Coin, etc. 526,399 423,537 Dec. 102,862
Public se-
curities 92,000 92,000 ——
Advances 1,343,013 1,636,201 Inc. 293,188
Premises 173,839 185,941 Inc. 12,102
Eight years ago the City had only £1,082,103 of
deposits; now it has £1,890,900, and the amount is
being added to rapidly—a very good indication of
the change that has taken place ip the public’s
opinion of the bank. Even now the public’s money
in the business is only 41 times greater than the
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves), and that
would be regarded as a very moderate proportion
under normal conditions. In fact, if the capital and
reserves were represented by assets worth 20s. in the
£, they would justify a further increase of, say, 50
p.c. in the deposits, etc. On its present resources,
however, it appears to have lent out quite as much
money as a bank can afford to if it wants to sleep
soundly at nights. In liquid assets it holds only
27 p.c. of the amount it owes to the public—cap'tal
is £400,000, in 50,000 shares, paid to £B. The
new shares (with a prior liability) were down to
71s. in Dec., 1904. Their present quotation is £5
—a very substantial rise, although plainly the
investor is still in doubt as to the value of the
assets. Since a bank’s very existence depends upon
its credit, and since it cannot be to the credit of a
bank to have its shares quoted at a heavy discount,
the management might do much worse even now
than to revalue the assets and let the shareholders
and the public know what the real position is.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
.June, 1904.. £5352 5 p.c. =£2250 £3102 £15,122
Dec., 1904.. 3332 5 „ „ 2250 1082 16,204
June, 1905.. 3768 5 ~ ~ 2250 1518 17,722
Dec., 1905.. 5577 6 ~ ~ 2700 2877 20,599
June, 1906.. 5466 6 ~ ~ 2700 2766 23,365
Dec., 1906.. 7061 8 ~ „ 3600 3461 26,826
June, 1907.. 4432 6 ~ ~ 2700 1732 28,558
Dec., 1907.. 4271 6 ~ ~ 2700 1571 30,129
June, 1905.. 4892 8 ~ ~ 3600 1292 31,421
Deo., 1908.. 4657 6 „ ~ 2700 1957 33.378
June, 1909.. 5965 6 ~ ~ 2700 3265 36,643
Dec., 1909.. 4523 8 ~ ~ 3600 923 37,566
June, 1910.. 4994 7 ~ „ 3150 1844 39,410
Dec., 1910.. 6659 7 ~ ~ 3150 2509 41,919
June, 1911.. 5416 9 „ ~ 4050 1366 43,285
Dec., 1911.. 5742 7 „ ~ 3150 2592 45,877
June, 1912.. 5"15 7 „ „ 3150 1865 47,742
This is the oldest trustee company in Australia.
When it was formed a big capital was thought to be
necessary. Subsequent companies learned a new
trick; they made their capital big, but called up
only a very small part of it, leaving the shareholders
liable for the balance. Consequently this co. has to
pay dividend on £90,000, while somewhat younger
companies make almost as much headway on a paid
capital of from £25,000 to £50,000. This ex-
plains why this co.’s dividend is only 7 p.c., while
that of others not so well situated is 10 p.c. or more.
Moreover, a company doing trustee business has
almost, of necessity, to put its money into gilt-
edged securities, and that, of course, means a low
interest return, so the dividend doesn’t get very
much help from that quarter. In the present case
two-thirds of the capital is represented by office free-
hold- —an investment chosen partly, no doubt, to save
rent; partly, also, for the value of such premises ,
for advt. purposes. The other one-third is repre-
sented by public securities and mortgages. The re-
serve fund is separately invested in mortgages .
( £18,288) and public securities ( £24,212). This;,
fund has been added to at an average rate of about
£4200 per annum for a good many years past, and;
the management doesn’t make any secret of its in-
tention to keep going till the reserves equal the
capital. Probably few trustee companies take so,,
serious a view of their liabilities; but that may be
due to the fact that, unlike this one, they have not-
yet made a serious acquaintance with the law’s uncer-
tainties. In any case, the existence of large capital ;
and reserve funds is all in favor of clients, for the .
bigger the funds the bigger the guarantee that the •
Trusts will be properly administered. At the endi
of the half-year the co. had estates valued at
£9,457,494, under administration. Ten years ago.
the total was £6,646,727. This shows a very healthy
growth of the good habit of entrusting work of this;
kind to people who are trained to do it. As to cost,,
this and similar cos. are paid (1) by an annual 21.
p.c. or so on income, and (2) by a single charge of
p.c. or so on the capital value. The T. E. and A.
nowadays bunches its receipts from all sources, but
it looks as though the co. charges for its services on
an average about 4s. 6d p.c. p.a. of the capital
value, and a heap of people charge much more for
doing much less.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Prop, evidently means
business. Both General-manager Delprat and the
Yankee iron and steel expert are satisfied with the
outlook for a new industry in Australia, so share-
holders are to be asked to increase the capital of the
co. At present there are 960,000 shares, all issued
and paid to Bs. ; the idea now is to authorise the
issue of a further 540,000. It is not clear whether
these will be at once sent to market; probably the
necessary money will be raised on debentures secured
by this uncalled capital. Nominally the new shares
will be worth Bs. like the others, but the market
would naturally appraise them considerably higher,
so that no doubt a million could be comfortably
raised on the new security. The circular to the share-


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-II.K, 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
Trom 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunt*® Struct, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams. 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
1c
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE
ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROW MAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
4-CF4- MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. —Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
-f-GF-f- Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
Considerable saving of fuel in generating steam is
being effected by the use of reliable cocks and valves,
steam-resisting engine packing and jointing
material; also by protecting heated surfaces to pre-
vent radiation and ensure transmission of heat.
Bell’s asbestos packed boiler mountings, “Belfry”
steam valves, “Dagger” packing, “Bellite” jointing
and asbestos non-conducting composition, rope lag-
ging and “Wadnit” mattresses can be obtained direct
from the makers, Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
* * •* *
The Bigelow Patent lioekbreaker is cheaper to
maintain and repair than gyratory and other crush-
ers. It is of the well-known Blake type, but has im-
provements which has justified all the claims of the
patentee. Crushing is done on the down stroke of
the pitman, so there is no strain on the pitman cap.
Side rods resist the thrust of the toggles. The back
toggle will resist legitimate strains of crushing, but
will shear under exceptional conditions, thus saving
the machine. The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of
South Melbourne, have the manufacturing right for
this machine.* [1
Extract from .Financial News, London, July
12, 1911: “The annual report of The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society affords abundant evi-
dence that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the
directors, for in every direction admirable progress
has been achieved.”*
For large or small water carrying propositions
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has proved its efficiency. It
is the pipe chosen for the great water supply scheme
at Broken Hill. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain and Footscray, are the makers.*
Mr. W. Angliss, one of Melbourne’s “big” men, is
spending about £25,000 on new steam plants for his
various works. The contract was secured by Haes
and Eggers, Limited, of 163 Clarence Street, who are
supplying Wolf Steam Engines, as illustrated on
page 41.*
TUCICETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc., of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
pipes for the new O’Shannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£lOO,OOO. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Coi.lison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers. Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourlce
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
*.■*■**
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Meeh. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
holders mentions Newcastle as a probable site of the
works, which promise to be of the utmost national
importance. , » •
If Stanley Low, the former manager of
Block 10, had had more friends at Broken Hill, it
would long 1 ago have leaked out there that he had
made a new estimate of ore reserves prior to his
hurried departure. But Low was a man who stood
aloof from the rest of the mining crowd, and neither
gave help nor expected any ; consequently, though it
was well known that new measurements had been
made, nobody felt interested in mentioning the fact
after he had gone. This was unfortunate for Low,
because the public was thus left to suppose that, in
his opinion, there were over half a million tons of
payable ore in view, whereas the new manager could
only find 282,000 tons. The drill had shown that
there was ore at 415 ft., but a crosscut had disclosed
that it was under milling grade, and no doubt this
unfavorable development led Low to cut down his old
figures. What his new estimate was has not trans-
pired, though Broken Hill mining men assume that
it was under 300,000 tons. Presumably the office
has the figures, though it naturally wasn’t concerned
about giving the old manager’s estimate when a new
manager had been put in charge.
The New Burragorang silver lead mine
(N.S.W.) has its shaft 222 ft. deep, and now that an
air-compressor has been provided development will be
pushed on more rapidly. The 6in. veins carry fair
values occasionally, and it is a feature of this silver
mining field that small veins live down to a great
depth. Prospecting work will become more interest-
ing as levels are driven for, then it is to be hoped
the small vein the co. is now sinking on will open
out into a larger ore-body.
B. H. Junction North shares continue to
weaken. The slump started at the end of last week,
when it became known that, as a precautionary meas-
ure, the men had been taken out of the mine. An exami-
nation of the workings failed to disclose anything
alarming, but there has probably been a settlement
of ground. Since the four lowest levels have been
opened, the totals mined from each, to March 31,
1912, have been: —
< Tons.
No. 9 level.. .. .. .. 108,749
No. 10 level.. .. .. .. 204,799
No. 11 level 268,989
No. 12 level 25,292
607,829
Metal contents recovered in concentrates cannot
be given with exactitude, but approximately they
are from 50,000 to 60,000 tons of lead and 3,000,000
oz. of silver. Gross value of the lot, with lead at
£l2 per ton and silver 2s. per oz., is £900,000.
The remnant left is not of so high a value, for reserves
are about 300,000 tons. How much ore there is
above No. 12 level, and along its north-western ex-
tension towards the North B. H. Co.’s boundary,
must depend on future developments. A level has
followed the footwall, but crosscutting has yet to be
done.
The Mount Bulga Mines and Smelting
Co. (N.L.) is to be formed, with a capital of
£30,000 in ss. shares. Of these 47,000 are offered
to the public, while 33,000, with £lO,OOO payable
in instalments, will satisfy the vendor, who parts
with the Bulga copper mine as a going concern.
This show is eight miles outside of Orange (N.S.W.),
and contains a copper lode at the south end of the
lease—-80 acres —and a gossan outcrop to the north.
The latter has been worked by an open cut to a
depth of 50ft., and is reckoned to be the leached
upper portion of another copper lode. The gossan
is estimated to average 20s. per ton for its gold and
silver. The workings on the copper lode proper con-
sist of a vertical shaft 300 ft. deep, with a couple
of levels, exposing a shoot of ore about 100 ft. long
and perhaps 6ft. to Bft. wide. But the ore has
been mostly stoped, leaving a possible 14,000 tons
to go on with. About 1000 tons are at grass. A
report by T. H. Fawcett, of Mount Oxide fame, testi-
fies to the ability of the mine to earn a profit with
copper over £6O per ton, but how much over is left
unsaid. It also recommends the acquisition of the
property at a moderate price, and £2OOO is consid-
ered to be sufficient working capital for present
requirements. It seems evident that the largest
part of the purchase price is in the prospects, and
the future of copper doesn’t gild the edge of the
proposition.
Another snasm hit the bosom of the
Melbourne Stock Exchange last week, because Bill
Toole, manager of the New Langi Logan,
wired , that the drill was through clay at 77ft. Of
course Toole needn’t have sent anything till he had
stopped boring from the crosscut on the gutter.
But he sent progress wires, and because such scoot-
ing was done to such an extent by the cold feet
crowd as to knock a lot of gilt off the ornamental
value of New Langi shares, the cry of hot stuff went
up. This was based on the fact that on the evening
of the first wire Ballarat sopped up all the cheap
scrip, and because, on the morn of the next day,
Toole reported that the drill, above the clay, had
gone into good wash carrying gold. To prove hot
stuff it has to be demonstrated that Ballarat knew on
the Wednesday night that the bore was into good
wash, also that the manager or the directors were aware
of this, and passed on word to clever people in Balla-
rat and Melbourne. A Stock Exchange inquiry is
ordered. This is a bit of Joseph Surface duplicity;
for if there was any hanky-panky—which hasn’t been
established —it isn’t half as bad as some of the deals
that have gone on in Broken Hill stocks within the
past year. Yet no busybody has been sent round to
stir up mud over what looks to be equally hot stuff.
The only body that could get at the truth would be
the talked-of Royal Commission on mining. This,
the Age says, isn’t needed. Why, dear old penny
Gehazi —why ?
* * * *
Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado (Vie.), is out
of debt. Smith, of Wangaratta, and the jaynial
Jarvie, as the backbone of the little alluvial bonser,
can be slapped on the back because of the feat.
There’s a widow and orphan or two, and a few
priests who offer prayer over this miracle. A lot of
Scotch bone has been needed to get out of the slough
and on to the new face. That the co., having reached
the 53rd call, is still going strong, isn’t won-
derful to those who know the claim. The barge is
now fairly well down to the 70ft. floor, and, as it hit
fairly payable wash between 50 and 70 feet, the co.
has carried along of late without financial troublings.
The 70ft. cleans should bring divs. Then they will
cut down to the 90ft. floor, where the best gold lies.
Still, what is wanted is more cash to provide more
barges. It is a pity that this isn’t forthcoming for
so genuine a show.
* * * *
Rugby footer isn’t in it with the game
being played at Ararat (Vic.) just now. Central
Cathcart shot up to 60s. and went back as quickly
to 505., in the face of rich samplings and a slap-
up outlook. The old jangle between the two camps
on the field may be responsible for the bumps that
are given, and for the most being said ot the way
in which the Central pumping plant is taxed, in a
friendly way, of course, the whispering on the other
bank isn’t kindly to Cathcart. So the sight is wit-
nessed of a sharp slide from the 30s. to the ZUs.
mark. New Langi also piled up a heap ot misfor-
tune. Another bore didn’t poke into wash below
79ft., though it should have done so at 7 (Jit. ipe
drill proved that the gutter runs flat, and at tne
same time dipped the market a clear half sov. per
share. But the Langi light isn’t quite doused, for
the Cathcart lead has to be got yet on the west
boundary. The Cathcart high bank, too, has to be
reached in that claim, so the punters don t despair
about regaining their wind.
TV * * *
Word has gone round in London that the
old Briseis mine is to have a market. This surely
explains the drift of the co.’s shares across the
water for the past six or eight months. The bait
thrown out is that, because the visible supplies ot
tin in the world’s markets have declined during the
past year or two, every reason exists why for a
corresponding term ahead, the price of the metal
should not fall below £175 per ton. All this is
very pretty, but “a prolonged period of prosperity-
built on such an hypothesis is resting on very treach-
erous foundations. Tin is getting scarcer, but the
manipulation of the tin market is worse than the
trickery of a three-card gang. So there isn’t an
element of security about the structure any more
than there is any element of certainty that the over-
trading of to-day mayn’t end up with some big
financial upset. Then heigh-ho for high prices ot
metals for a while. Again, there is the question
whether the mine has such an assured_ future that
it can return the present price, of scrip. Lindesay
Clark says there is 1000 tons of tin ore in the Krushka
flat. Neither he nor Currie will testify as to
what is under the Kingarooma basalt capping. So
the plain calculation based on all that is known of
the actual reserves of drift in the Briseis leases is,
if 6115 tons of metallic tin won have yielded 11s. 3d.
per share in divs. since 1900, under relatively easy
conditions, what will 1000 tons in the Krushka flats
give? Not Bs., the present price of shares, to a
certainty. What remains to make up the difference
is the drift under the basalt which Clark is working
off the Kingarooma leases. Of its value no one can
speak, though the word is passed round that the work
done has resulted “in a reserve of several million
cubic yards of tin drift, from which substantial
profits will be obtained in the future.” Puffing of
this form looks very nice when put in type, but the re-
cords of the past ought not to have been set beside
it to warn the dubious.
. * * *•
Lebrina Gully, near Scottsdale (Tas.),
has been successfully floated in 30,000 shares of ss.
each. Favorable reports are to hand, including one
from a former underground manager of the Beacons-
field (Tas.). The lode, averaging 12in. to 18in.
wide, gives prospects up to an ounce per ton, where
proved by a number of prospecting shafts over a
distance of 500 ft. A second-hand 10-head battery
and winding plant are to be erected on the spot.
* * * *
A new man from London is getting ready
to confirm the low temperature roasting and subse-
quent cvanidation tests successfully made with
Gwalia Consolidated ore last year. He exnects to
have a 30-to-50-ton-a-day experimental plant in
operation at the end of August, and if good results
can be obtained from this tonnage the co. proposes
to try to raise more money for a larger plant. If only
the treatment problem could be solved, the property
would stand a good chance of becoming a big thing,
but this bait has been dangled so often before share-
holders, with ruinous results, that they must be now
loth to nibble at it.
Directly it bought the Gwalia South, Sons
of Gwalia (W.A.), with a knowing look in its eye,
continued a No. 7 level crosscut into the former
property, and at Bft. inside the boundary, cut 82in.
of 31s. ore. The existence of this shoot was un-
known to the now defunct Gwab'a South. Co., but it
now transpires that the Gwalia authorities “unex-
pectedly” struck it with a drill shortly after nego-
tiations for purchase were started, and it influenced
them in making a deal.
Principal Westralian results for June: —
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder .. 18,336 46,166 24,128 50/4
Ivanhoe . . 20,023 38,571 16,021 38/6
Kalgurli .. .. 10,620 21,846 9,678 41/2
Sons of Gwalia .. 12,405 19,777 4,179 31/9
Oroya Links .. 11,010 13,123 3,383 23/10
Lake View and Star 17,683 21,347 3,283 24/2
Boulder Persever-
ance . . . . 20,304 23,732 2,050 23/4
Associated . . 10,570 12,959 2,004 24/6
Golden Horseshoe 26,987 32,393 669 24/-
South Kalgurli .. 9,411 11,809 2,058 25/1
Yuanmi .. .. 5,200 9,773 4,673 37/7
Black Range .. 2,331 7,352 3,009 63/-
Mararoa . . . . 2,628 4,496 1,496 34/3
Burbanks Main Lode 1,826 4,470 2,140 49/-
Golden Ridge . . 2,895 5,097 1,526 35/7
Great Fingall . . 6,196 10,430 1,400 33/8
M e n 7. i e s’ Consoli-
dated .. .. 2,026 4,073 1,048 40/2
Boulder No. 1 .. 1,099 2,322 1,017 42/-
Sand Queen.. .. 1,280 3,084 1,251 51/1
Oroya-Black Range 4,700 8,153 2,075 34/8
Ingliston Con sols
Extended . . 1,913 2,200 520 36/10
Ida H 1,090 2,772 266 50/10
Commodore . . 1,100 1,215 203 22/1
Associated Northern 2.,013* 7,702 69/7
Lake View Consols 8,820 f 1,695 484 3/10
North Kalgurli .. 743 J 1,249 33/7
Loss.
Hainault. . .. 5,814 6,078 912 20/10
Morning Star .. 1,595 2,322 526 29/2
Mountain Queen .. 4,001 3,418 611 17/1
♦Mostly tributers’ ore. fold residues. JTributers’
parcels.
In addition to an unknown tonnage re-
maining in old stopes, Great Fingall (W.A.) was
estimated at December 31 last to have 52,926 tons
of reserves above the No. 14 level of an average
value of 28s. Bd. Below this level there are reckoned
to be 31,812 tons of ore worth 425. 10d., but these
reserves will, it is mentioned, not be available for
the mill until after the completion of the new
internal shaft from the No. 13 to No. 18 levels.
Developments at Nos. 17 and 18 levels are said to
be still satisfactory, and, taking as a basis the
extent and value of the ore opened up at these two
points, there appears to the management to be good
reason to believe that the top of another huge lens
of ore, similar to, and possibly as good as the one
which made the mine famous in days gone by, has
been met with. After charging to revenue the whole
of the internal shaft expenditure, the surplus for the
year amounted to £19.116. Of this £12,500 was
mooped up by an interim dividend, and, after pro-
viding for other exes, £4263 remained. The whole
of this, together with £16,248 transferred from
reserve account, has been applied to writing down
to a nominal sum the book value of the co.’s West
African delusion.
More capital expenditure was outlined at
the meeting of the Mount Morgan. The copper smelt-
ing plant is to be improved, along with sundry sur-
face changes. There are only five furnaces, not
nearly enough for this tonnage under pyritic smelt-
ing conditions. Because of the general lay of the
works additions are likely to be costly. Casey, the
new chairman, makes the remark that the directors
consider the cost of producing copper in the past has
been too high. Everyone has known for a long time
that it has been ridiculously high. He also makes
the surprising statement that the silicious gold ore
treated at the mundic works has yielded very little
profit of late. This looks as though it were merely
intended to shield the copper costs. However, con-
sidering for the moment that the copper works
yielded all the profit, the following results: Output
of copper for the year was 7440 tons; average gross
price realised per ton was £63 13s. 2d., not count-
ing the gold contents, which averaged 11.120 z. per
ton of blister. The net profit, after allowing for de-
preciation, was £208,585 (increased largely by
bringing forward the copper on hand at £5O, and
carrying it forward at £7O).
7440 tons, at £63 12s. 6d £473,370
Fine gold in copper .. . . ~ . 354,000
Total value of copper production 827,370
Net profit .. . . . . . . 208,585
Total cost .. .. ..£618,785
This is equal to a total cost of £B3 3s. 4d. per ton
of copper. But it was worse than this, for the mun-
dic works must have yielded part of the profit of
£208,585. Of the silicious gold ore, 93,413 tons
were treated, averaging 10.96dwt. gold and 0.91 p.c.
copper. The gold average is the highest for many
years. The copper from precipitates is also credited
to this ore. With copper at £5O, the yield from
this ore was equal to 555. 7d. per ton.. To say there
was no profit on a grade such as this is absurd. The
last costs published ini connection with the mundic
works gave crushing, roasting and chlorinating, 14s.
3d. per ton. If no profit resulted, it means that the
increase in working costs, the cost of mining and the
overhead charges must have totalled another 41s. 4d.
Mount Morgan mining is bad enough, but not so
bad as that, especially as the open-cut yielded a fair
proportion of the ore. If the siliceous gold ore
yielded 10s. per ton profit, the copper cost was over
£9O per ton; if 20s. be the mundic profit, the copper
cost aviates up to the aerial regions of £lOO per
ton. According to a statement given to the meeting,
the gold contents of the ore in reserve have increased
over 60 p.c. After 82,6550 z. were extracted, the
mine now contains 482,0000 z. of gold more than it
did a year ago. The copper also bumps up. Practi-
cally no development took place to account for it. At
last Mount Morgan begins to stir in the matter of
further exploration. To find out what its probable
life is it has shown little curiosity on this score.
There is talk of reducing the Many Peaks’ ore
treated; but it is probably merely talk. Wesley, of
Mount Lyell, is the new metallurgist, and he has
been used all his life to dealing with a pyritic flux,
so it is unlikely that he will start experimenting
with ironstone when he can get the other. Provided
the mining manager keeps the pace going without
getting into trouble, the improved smelting will
make a big difference in the costs. There is ample
room for double the usual dividend, but a lot of ex-
penditure will first be necessary.
Columbia Extended (Gympie, Q.) is giv-
ing most of its attention to the 1465 ft. level, where
a i*eef of 4in. to 6in. recently gave some fine specimen
stone. Some of this will catch the public’s vacant
stare at the Brisbane exhibition. From a crushing
of 71 tons, during June, gold to the value of £B6l
was returned. The No. 4 North Phoenix has got on
small stuff, the reef managing no greater corpulency
than an average of 2in. to 4in. Still, the concern
dragged together 139 tons. The 3670 z. acquired
from this parcel gave the shareholders a present of
£lOOO. Other Gympie dividend givers during June
were the North Great Eastern Tribute, which scat-
tered a mere £125 in threepenny bits, and the Scot-
tish Gympie. The latter crushed 7500 tons for
21660 z., and its usual quarterly distribution of lid.
a share ( = £4125) was the result. For the half-
year Gympie put 67,432 tons under the stampers for
23,4200 z. of gold. Galls are still top-dog for the
half-year ( £18,597, as against dividends, £14,008).
Croydon (N.Q.) at present is talking
mostly about the old Empire claim. Twelve months
ago, the co. started out to test the Nos. 2 and 3
levels with great expectations. But £62 worth of
gold from a mine expenditure of £865 wouldn’t
“boil the billy,” and the ghost was stalking up the
shaft without much ceremony when one Gill, an old
Croydon mining man, had something to say.
Amongst it was an opinion that the co. had not
really got into the gold-bearing country. It accord-
ingly handed him the job of testing his own theories.
A rise of lift, from a crosscut on No. 1 level opened
,jut a “3ft. reef, averaging 25dwt.,” while another
make of stone fan Bin. reef), discovered at the back
of the shaft, prospects for 3oz. Gill, accordingly, is
king. The Content Block had a decent crushing as
far as Croydon goes; 1133 tons from the Big stope
returned 47890 z., valued at £7443. The Balcony
stope supplied 553 tons for treatment, of slightly
better-quality stuff. It returned 9430 z. (= £1821).
But the low value of the gold (30s. to 40s. the ounce)
is the blot on the landscape.
St. Mungo copper (Cloncurry, Q.) started
with a modest capital of £5OOO in 10,000 shares of
10s. each. It is now proposed to enliven the gamble
by increasing the number of shares to 40,000 of
2s. 6d. each. Dividends, amounting to £3OOO (6s.
per share) have been paid by sending away 25 p.c.
copper ore (chalcopyrite) to southern smelters. These
shipments have been made with copper, most of the
time under £6O per ton. During the past half-year
two points of development—the shaft and a winze
from No. 2 level —have disclosed lateral deposits of
high-grade ore. The output for six months was 180
tons of 25 p.c. ore, and the net return was £2211.
On June 1 the credit balance was £484. There is
£BOO on fixed deposit. Reserves above No. 2 level
are 400 tons, containing, approximately, 100 tons of
copper.
Vulcan (N.Q.) has something more cheer-
ing at the 750 ft. level. Here the new make of ore
has been opened out to 30ft. long by 31ft. wide,
bulking 3 p.c. A little sinking and rising haven’t
poured any cold water on the importance of the
development. An attempt is being made to locate
the Same ore body at the 900 ft. level. For the
month, 1018 tons were crushed, producing 31 tons
2cwt. of concentrates, worth £2817.
Thompson’s Oaks (N.Q.) is saving up
another trial crushing from a vein of stone at the
168 ft. level. That was the depth where the reef was
met with in the straight shaft, and deeper sinking
having failed rather miserably, the co. is going to
prospect a continuation of the stone worked by the
prospectors. The term, “width of the ore shoot,”
may confuse some people into thinking that there is
a lode Bft. wide. That isn’t the case. The reef is
a few inches thick. There are too many shares for
this little prospecting venture to stagger under.
Oaks Rush Amalgamated (N.Q.) is closed
down, pending some kind of adjustment of the
finances. The brilliant show made from erushings
taken out above the 100 ft. level was deceptive, for
the mine turned out badly at depth, in spite of heaps
of encouraging and nicely-worded reports. The 10-
head mill, fed with surface and other low-grade
crushing stuff, failed to keep this huge quarter-
million concern on an even keel.
The Elliott, always on the look-out to ex-
tend its life a bit further, has acquired yet another
option, this time for 12 months, over the Native
Companion. Area is 160 acres and price £3BOO.
Which seems reasonable enough on glancing through
the list of parcels from the mine, ranging from 20
to 49 p.c. copper, with an average of 15dwt. gold
and 9oz. to 15oz. silver per ton. The question, of
course, is—How many tons of crude ore were broken
to make up these parcels? A year ought to give a
fair idea as to whether this is another of the Clon-
curry surface squibs. Manager Corbould will, long
before that time, be enjoying sweet rest from option-
hunting expeditions.
New Queen Cross (Charters Towers)
struck the Moonstone formation at 78ft., and after
sinking a well hole will drive on the quartz leaders
(lightly mineralised) cut in the shaft. Locally this
stock is gambled in because there is a reef 24ft:
thick showing at the bottom of the Papuan co.’s
shaft, and it is thought that it may possibly make
good at depth. The reef has always been variable and
patchy, so it provides a low-priced toss-up.
* * * »
Brilliant Deeps (Charters Towers) cleaned
up a crushing of 157$ tons for gold concentrates and
sands worth £1377, the average being £8 15s. Id.
per ton. Since the reef was struck in No. 4 level
(2540 ft.), 1165 tons have averaged £7 7s. 3d. per
ton. Chairman Millican told shareholders that 200 ft.
of driving along No. 4 west level had produced 413
tons of stone, so it is practically certain that the
poorer section of the reef extended for 85ft., in ad-
dition to which there are two blanks. Charters
Towers doesn’t appear to be a buyer of Deeps at pre-
sent in any large quantity. A London register is to
be opened. With the new machinery in going order
a very much increased output of stone is to be ex-
pected.


♦VKwSJ.Sa
HFtRIHG
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
Buchanan’s
“BLACK
(El
WHITE.”
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black 8 White ”
is indeed a “ grand
spirit.” Matured for
years in Scotland
before shipment.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, July 29, 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
“Mother of Ten” drops in a fierce note of
interrogation, re the very wet rainfall you
may have noticed splashing over N.S.W.
“Where does the rain go to? I want to
know if it falls down into cracks in the
earth, and gets lost before it has time to
make the grass grow, or the young calves
jump for joy. It must go somewhere. But
butcher’s meat is steadily climbing to famine
prices. Milk (sometimes the rain falls into
it) remains firm at sd. a quart. Every
article of food, and most of the garments my
flock wear out before the rain stops raining,
are 50 per cent, dearer (like rents) than
they were seven or eight years ago. The
only thing that stands still—like Balaam’s
ass —is my good man’s wage. I want to
know whether we are in the grip of a beef
and mutton trust, and would be glad to hear
why a ‘beneficent rainfall’ is a harder thing
to live up to than a good old-fashioned
drought?” This suburban explosive (to be
handled with care) will he passed later on
to this office’s financial Dreadnought. He
is at present hiding from the weather in a
sun-burnt isle that rocks itself to sleep in
the arms of the Equator.
But I know a certain capitalist—or per-
haps I should say a certain capitalist con-
descends to know me; and I showed him
this clamor, and asked for advice. He was
the angriest man in the street. “People like
that,” he shouted, “don’t know what they
are talking about. Meat may have gone up
id. a pound or so. I don’t know. But look
how shares have gone up ! Do you know, I
paid over £5 each the other day for some in-
surance shares that I could have bought for
£1 in 1594. Why, if meat went up to 2s. a
pound it would be nothing compared to what
I have to put up with in my business !” So
I saw that the case was a complicated one,
and fled.
An inter-State Congress of the National
Council of Women is purring over its tea-
cups, as I write (Monday), at the invita-
tion of Sydney’s small Mayoress, Miss
Clarke.
The affairs of every State in the Com-
monwealth will be carefully half-soled and
heeled by the National Council of Women
this week. They will occasionally remove
their august lorgnettes from the backslidings
of Man (regarded as a law-maker) to pur-
sue the ham sandwich under the vice-regal
shingle. Lady Denman’s evening party will
have received female cavalry in council
before this beats against your far-off shore,
Arini. The Chelmsford lady has com-
manded the presence of all inter-State chat-
ter-boxes on Thursday afternoon (August
1). The intervals will be filled up with X
Bay remarks of dazzling effulgence, which
will daily flood the King’s Hall with recipes
on the Right Way of Thinking. Any dele-
gate who takes more than five minutes to
tear the arguments of any other delegate to
tatters will be warned off the platform as a
person suspected of sleeping in red bed-socks
and weai’ing republican chest-warmers.
The Chapzander mission to the Lost has
found a fairly good collection of threepenny-
bits in its prayerful plates. But I fancy the
novelty and the cash receipts have worn
rather thin since the first great onslaught
on trembling half-fledged sinners. Most of
the sinners, by the way, who are saved while
you wait by these penny-in-the-slot Yankee
methods seem to be quite tame. They have
buff or pale brown consciences, instead of
the black-and-sulphur article, and don’t look
fierce enough to rob a hen’s-nest. The Gen-
uine Article (with horns above and cloven
walk-upons beneath) either finds business
too flourishing to retire to a green hill far
away, or creeps stealthily by night into the
soul-saver’s snug den, and secretly offers his
speckled career, and one per cent, of his
bank overdraft to the Hymn-zander treasury.
The Y.M.C.A. has recently broken out in
the same old place—debating rounds in
which it takes on tongue-pugilists from mild
suburban temples devoted to Y.M.C.A. and
the art of getting on in life. Summer Hill is
alleged to be repairing its fallen debaters
who nearly perished under the wild Chris-
tian Young Men’s talk-who-talk-can the other
day. This flowing river of debate will flood
Melbourne in the immediate future.
The “Alliance Frangaise” will hold a
“Soiree Artistique et Litteraire” on Fridav
evening, August 9. St. James’s Hall will
be the scene of this determined attack on
French verbs.
In spite of many false alarms, whiskers
that trail across the manly waistcoat don’t
seem to be coming in. The Central Metho-
dist Mission in this city sent along its 28th
anniversary booklet, and (tempting Fate)
politely asked for a few remarks thereon.
The frontispiece picture shows the head par-
son _ of its local circuit and superintendent
of its charity bed and board department,
etc.. Rev. W. G. Taylor, and his wife. He
evidently fell into the hands of a London
barber during his recent walks abroad. A
reformed set of society whiskers, a short
thick grey hedge round his Methodist chin,
is all that remains of the untidy half-yard
of beard and door-mat that used to wave in
unison with the Taylor coat-tails on a windy
day. With his beard at one end and his
coat-tail at the other he vaguely suggested
a pious elephant with a Bible in its ear.
Getting off the track of religious whiskers,
I note that the recent tramping of Parson
Taylor up and down the grey old city by
the Thames was not innocent of autographs.
A letter from the Dowager Queen Alexandra
is not exactly _ signed, but is the next best
thing of its kind —if its kind will put an
extra pot of soup on for the Burwood “Alex-
andra Home” for friendless girls. It con-
veys her ex-Majesty’s best wishes to Mr.
Taylor and his co-laborers. G. H. Reid
also committed himself in ink, to best wishes,
etc. The Alexandra Home is said to be con-
ducted on the Open Door system—no locks,
and no mention of latchkeys.
The Sydney Methodist Mission claims to
have saved a centenarian Frenchman (in his
year), a champion lightweight boxer
of N.S.W., a chimney sweep with a sooty
record, a Prodigal Son, various pickpockets,
burglars and other undesirable citizens. So
the Chapzander duet will have to look to
its prize salvage.
A Sydney paper publishes a statement
that m a few weeks 10,000 persons have
petitioned that when they die their bodies
S&y be burnt. The Cremation Society of
. .W. is, therefore, presumably, in high
spirits. How soon this band of 10,000 enthu-
siasts will die to help the cause has not been
advertised. Dr. Creed, M.L.C., has always
been a zealous advocate of the white-ash
remnant. The ordinary woman shies at the
thought of human dust _on the mantelpiece.
Dust has been her specialty—dust and wash-
ing up—since the erection of the first humpy
gave her more troubles than she was born
to. Funeral baked meats are bad old habits,
but the family urn is another story.
Invitations have already posted round the
Very Best suburbs for the wedding of Miss
Gladys Bowker and Mr. Jim Gordon.
August 17 is the date of the orange blos-
soming.
Miss Dita Kerr, a Darling Point damsel,
is going to shake her bridal plumage
at an evening ceremony in the parental
nest The groom is the elder son of the late
Justice Cohen, but I fancy the wedding bells
will be of the Christian persuasion. A re-
ception at the Australia later in the even-
ing (August 7) ought to gather together an
expensive assemblage of Darling Point’s
best ostrich feathers. The picture hat (as
a top-dressing to evening frocks), gets its
rare chance of walking out, at gaslight wed-
dings. Whether its wide roof shelters the
bare neck below it from the winter blast is
another matter. A sou’wester would be a
more certain cure for cold ears these nights.
That indefatigable pillar of Flemington
(V lc -) Racecourse, the strenuous Byron
Moore, sent a few post-mortem remarks re
the late airman Yanniman, to a friend on
Mosman’s leafy brow. The obituary notice
he saw in this letter, a few weeks ago, has
extracted the following Byronic In Memor-
iam :
I met Vanniman (who was killed recently by the
explosion of his aeroplane in the States) when he
was out here. He was a great enthusiast at anything
he took in hand, and secured a very fine panoramic
view of the Cup, but the best thing he did with a
camera was a bird’s-eye view of your harbor. I be-
lieve he made four balloon ascents before he got the
atmospheric effect that satisfied him.
Byron Moore’s numerous friends in this
watery town will heave a sympathetic sigh
to hear that Victoria’s artistic forerunner of
the horse has been wrestling with three fierce
little devils —lumbago, bronchitis and
asthma.
At a rainy time, when anything that can
be alluded to as “festive” is an aquatic per-
formance, or a duck, or a drunk or a rescue
from drowning, there is some solace in
plunging into an aggravated attack of dry
star-itis. Do they wear goloshes in Mars’?
Is Venus a dressy kind of planet, draped in
the latest cloud paniers? Does Tannhauser
pursue her golden curls—anyhow Catherine
de Medici knows all about these things.
Catherine was a dabbler in astronomy long
before the Woman’s Vote gave us upoisli
ideas.
Glancing through a lengthy list of famous
dames who made a noise with their mathe-
matics, centuries before Mary Proctor was
thought of, I recalled a painful fact. Hypa-
tia, who lectured on astronomy to Greek
students, in or about a.d. 400, had no press
agent. _ Even hairpins were not invented
when this learned lady was scraped to death
with sea-shells, in church, under the super-
vismn of a lay reader or local preacher
(probably because she knew too much to be
considered respectable) at Alexandria,
lagans, Jews and Christians nearly
strangled science about this time, and the
woman astronomer was snuffed out till stay-
laces and brains began to accumulate
together in the person of the saintly blue-
stocking Hildegarde, in the 12th century.
In spite of a quarter-mile or so of women’s
names which shine in the annals of famous
star-gazers, Mary Proctor was hailed by the
local press as “the only woman astronomer.”
.Shades of Elizabeth von Matt, W. Bottcher
Mrs. Lepaute, Mrs. du Piery, that famous
prodigy Maria Agnesi, and a hundred she sky-
walkers of later date! Where does the “only
woman” fable come from?
Mrs. Lawson, the frisky London society
dame who married Lord Hamilton, of Dai-
zell, 24 hours after the decree nisi had been
made absolute, narrowly escaped being Mrs
Levy for a start. Her first husband, Colonei
W. Lawson, is a son of the first Baron Burn-
ham, who was born plain Levy, being a son
of the late J. S. Levy and Esther his wife.
A Royal license helped him to “Lawson,”
which he took under the will of the late
Lionel Lawson, liis uncle. Burnham got his
gilded lordly prefix in 1903. He is chief
proprietor of the London Daily Telegraph,
the press in Bull’s island having a tendency
to run to peers.
Mayor Clarke and the slim Miss Mayoress
Clarke gave a municipal snack of lunch to
Miss Eva Mylott, before confronting her
with the outstretched hands of her numer-
ous friends. This revel occurred one day
last week. Town Clerk Nesbitt and Deputy
Aide Layton marshalled the 3.30 p.m. com-
pany into the Presence. It was a damp
company, with part of the rainfall trickling
oft its best hat, and the state of the streets
published on its patent leather toe-caps.
Eva Mylott is off to the South Coast for
a concert tour on the shores of the spouting
whale and the hills of the smoked hog. The
recently returned singer maintains that a
Flying Johnson, or whatever we call the
night train to Forbes, lacks the home com-
forts of an American Pullman car. “We had
to get out of our train at Bathurst at
3 a.m.,” says she, “because some part of it
had caught tire. It was a freezing wait, and
about 4 o’clock we were put into some bleak,
second-class carriages, and sat bolt upright,
packed together, till we got to Forbes about
11 a.m. After engaging a sleeper, it was
poor comfort to hear that we were lucky to
get to our destination when we did, for I
caught cold in my vocal chords, and had
laryngitis as a souvenir of the Forbes trip.
At the Dubbo hall most of the weather came
in through the windows —a piercing cold
sample it was —and when they tried to stuff
them up, the panes fell out; so I haven’t had
quite such a good time as I expected. How-
ever, the country looks well, and that’s the
main thing.” Then, I believe, the singer
broke down and wept bitterly.
Mrs. Jeanne Brola, of the Quinlan opera
co., had a ’busman’s holiday at the Bellevue
Hill Russell’s party early in the annals of
last week. Generally speaking, a profes-
sional singer never opens her mouth off the
stage during her season in important con-
cert or operatic thrills, except to ask someone
to pass the mustard, or to fling a compliment
at the local scenery. Mrs. Brola, however,
“obliged” the Russell’s company with several
vocal efforts. This rejuvenates a bad prece-
dent which professionals in this town have
been trying to bury in its shameless old age
for years.
The dramatic American songster may have
ottered to pipe her lay at the aforesaid
suburban assemblage of pearl pendants, etc.
Hut it’s up against the rule which Sydney
musicians are hanging on to, with what pot-
luck they can get. Pianist Charbonnet-
Kellermann fled from the meanness that
commandeered her time, “in a friendly way,”
and fed her with an indifferent oyster or
two, or gave her toothache with an acid
iruit salad, as a fee for her “de-lightful per-
forma nee.” If Mrs. Brola will sing for
nothing, she can eat a free dinner first
every evening the Quinlan management lets
her ott the chain.
■t T ™ e , Lottie Dearn concert occurs on August
•i, t , Concordia Hall (Elizabeth-street)
will be the place or battlefield. This young-
ster has been so carefully taught by Mr.
Asprey that, granted the cash to fill little
Bottle s purse, and send her off rejoicing to
Leipsic, she has nothing to unlearn when she
goes abroad. As I remarked, after hearing
her—on one of the numerous Nights of Icy
Blasts—-she has the forearm of a juvenile
blacksmith to aid and abet the technique of
a . brilliant young student of the hard-worked
piano.
“Faust,” rejuvenated, as presented by
lenor John Harrison, on Her Majesty’s
stage, the other night, was a more dashing
lover than we generally get in that tuneful
part A tenor who is so fat that he can
hardly waddle round the large wajst-line of
the average Marguerite (always a motherly-
looking person if her voice is up to prima-
donna scale) is the usual Lothario. This
4 aust, in elegant upholstery of heliotrope
velvet and passionate hose, with a velvet
toque and weeping ostrich tail balanced on
his pale mouse-colored wig, was an active
neat-limbed young scamp, serenading the
lowly thatch of his Marguerite’s rustic
cabin. It was calm weather, otherwise John
4 aust couldn’t have kept his marvellous mil-
hnery perched on his innumerable back hair
while he navigated with both arms the
generous circumferenec of the Nuremberg
damsel’s waist-belt.
Agnes Nicholls’s Marguerite had a hurried
? with the earrings that arch-tempter
Mephistopheles dropped near her doorstep
They wouldn’t clutch the ear-hole, and
seemed to poke the small lobe of the Nicholls
ear with a firm determination not to be in
W ! t .' l ® atan - Have you ever noticed
that Mephisto s jewels never look worth more
than 2s. 6d. the lot? They are seldom worth
even a small white lie. The Horned Gentle-
rnans (or Hoofed Bloque’s) audacity in
ottering Marguerite eighteen-pence or so for
her soul (I suppose that’s the moral of the
Jewel Song”) ought to make kindly
usurers, who pluck young pigeons for only
oO per cent, interest, feel that they’re mere
babes at business.
Robert Parker is the most rollicking
Mephisto we’ve had in this town for years.
He wore two emaciated feathers, sprouting
out of his cranium with a singed hot-air
compartment droop in their tails, and the
usual flame-colored garb. Parker has
magnificent teeth, and he showed the
whole set with a roaring laugh that in-
cited the frivolous minded to a sympathetic
titter. His plump and healthy figure, how-
ever, suggested a hearty appetite. Devilled
4 aust, on toast, would be a mere morning
snack for a Mephisto the size of the athletic
4’arker.
Oscar Asche and his Lily are thinking of
a course of physical culture—so an unreli-
ahie rumor says. Asche hopes to relieve him-
self of a few rolls of fat, preparatory to
some future part in which he wants to
achieve a more soulful expression about his
brawny chest. The Lily is presumably onlv
thinking of her partner’s efforts for a more
ethereal figure,_ for her own tall and slender
frame is the ideal clothes-prop proposition
that every first-class costumifire yearns over.
. Composer Puccini, in his latest excursion
into liellowdrama, “The Girl of the Golden
Yv est, says: Its general characteristics
are that every note of it is Puccini pure and
simple. To an extent it is less sentimental
than my other works. It is, let me see
it is more picturesque, there is more distinc-
tive color in it. In the music you have the
rough miners lives, the intimacy of camp
life, and the silences of the great redwood
forests. Then the orchestration is much
more complex than anything else I have
done. It is much more elaborate ”
Puccini on Puccini is not only an idolater
but he kindly records, for the benefit of the
press, the details of his Great (?) Work.
“Your poor old granny is no more,” sings one
of the Californian boys in the Puccini yell-oh.
Bang goes something in the orchestra.
“Whisky and wa-ter” continues the camp
troubadour. More noise from a few dry-
throated instruments. “My poor dog Tray,”
or something of the kind, is another theme
for this composer’s alleged “complex orches-
tration.” The “Girl” may draw well as a
fine drama. As opera, the worst I wish
Puccini (who must require a very large
size in hats, judging by his remarks) is
that he should be chained to a front theatre
stall every evening for a month, and forced
to listen to his own production without any
interval for rest and refreshment.
Must now hasten to bail out my boat, the
Deluge having resumed,
VANDORIAN.
Exile” : The fact that a furious though
noiseless scrimmage is raging in Melbourne
for the shoes of Agent-General Jack Tav-
euneb, while that individual is still wearing
them, moves me to consider this expensive
species of bird. An Agent-General belongs
to a special class. He is a cross between a
consul and a diplomat; and is more fre-
quently ornamental than useful to his
State. The job was created early in Aus-
tralian history, apparently to supply a re-
turned colonist, who had done a little public
work at a big salary, with a comfortable
billet. It was held by such as Dan Cooper,
Saul. Samuel, Andrew Clarke, George
Verdon and Julius Vogel. Then it be-
came the refuge of worn-out politicians—
party backs that, although useless for further
lighting, could not well be sent to the
shambles. Of this class were Murray
Smith, Graham Berry, Duncan Gillies,
Horace Tozer, Dillon Bell and Frank
Dobson. Not one of these was of the
slightest use to the passing Australian in
Condon, or to the State he represented.
Most of them attended the Agency, gener-
ally a dingy, dusty den somewhere in West-
minster, on Monday, when the Australian
mail arrived, and on Friday, when it left.
I he chief duty was, of course, to call on the
stockbroker and tell him to float a loan, and
get it underwritten as quietly as possible.
Some Agents-General have made money by
doing a little underwriting on their own ac-
count—but such cases are rare. There was
a curious aloofness about the old-time Agent-
General, who always seemed to imagine
himself the State he represented; and he
did his duty manfully at all functions which
promised either entertainment or refresh-
ment. But the modern Agent-General
does have to show something for his money.
He has on his hands cold rabbits, colder but-
ter, live immigrants, hot loans, dead sheep
and cows (male and female), as well as
visiting nobodies from “Do,wp Under.” So
it is quite possible that the man who jumps
Taverner’s shoes will receive a mild sur-
prise. The job has changed with the times.
England.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Winston Churchill, First Lord of the Ad-
miralty, explained that the Supplementary Estimates
were made necessary owing to the new German Navy
law, under which four-fifths of the vessels were to be
kept in instant readiness for. war. Such a propor-
tion, he said, was unprecedented in modern practice.
Britain’s programme of construction during the
coming five years would, Mr. Churchill said, be in-
creased. .. .He denied that the transfer of four battle
cruisers to Malta would reduce the Home Fleet below
what the Admiralty considered to be the “irreducible
minimum.”
. The transport workers on strike at the docks are
becoming vicious.... After the Tower Hill meetibg
2000 dockers marched to the docks in two sections.
One upset and plundered two bread vans and com-
mandeered a van loaded with foodstuffs.
— '-Cables.
The proud name, like the clash of bells that
tell of victory,
How many years?—how many months shall
it command the sea?
How long before the colors sink that now so
bravely float,
And England’s pride for aye goes down in
England’s briny moat?
They played the game on sea and land—they
made the sword a law;
They had the money and the men—they
took whate’er they saw ;
The golden loot of half the world went
northward to the Thames;
By right of sword they took it all to make
their diadems.
Wherever treasure lay, or fame, their, fierce
commanders led ;
For ev’ry English stone and field a legionary
bled;
But with each drop of English blood a flood
of treasure went
To fill the coffers brimming full o’er which
grey London bent.
And thus with splendid insolence their end-
less wars they made,
Yet scorned as rulers of the earth to guard
their English trade ;
The boast of Freedom ’neath the flag that
preyed upon the earth
Must still apply to English trade, else what
were Freedom worth?
And now behind the English guns the Eng-
lish cry for bread,
Ydiile all around the conquered earth are
wheatlands colored red !
What madness can it be that turns so
quickly Fortune’s wheel?
Freetrade has made the North Sea home a
workhouse hedged with steel!
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


jh
B. & B.
Riders say—
“My ‘B. & B.’ Cycle is a
splendid machine to ride.
It runs splendidly.
O. KAL T E NBER G,
Wyalong.”
“I have been using my ‘B.
& B.’ Cycle for 12 months.
I have been out in all wea-
thers, and, although it has
been covered with slush and
mud many times, I have had
no trouble.
B. G. KELLY, Jingera.”
“In 1900 I purchased one
of your bicycles in West
Australia, where, in four
years, I covered some 12,528
miles. I took it with me
when I went to South Aus-
tralia, and here it did 36
trips from Hahndorf to Ade-
laide —18 miles each way. I
recommend these machines
before any others I know.
A. MOSES, Hahndorf, S.A.”
The Popular
£lo|lol- Cycle
Superior construction and first-class materials
are what make “B. & B.” Cycles so good. Be-
cause of their scientific construction they are
lighter, and you can ride faster with less energy
on a “B. & B.” Cycle than on any other wheel.
The “B. & B.” Model 3, at £lO/10/-, is a
splendid mount.
SPECIFICATION.
FRAME —Latest Low-tvpe design, or to customers’ re-
quirements by order. Constructed of finest grade weldless
steel tubing. British Fittings. Finished with stove enamel
(any color). WHEELS —Westwood rims, Dunlop Welsh Multi-
flex, or any preferred tyre. HANDLE BARS —Flat, Half or
Full Drop. ACCESSORIES—TooI Bag, Tools, Pump, etc.
Whether you want a cycle for business or pleasure, investigate
the easy-riding and reliability qualities of “B. & B.” Cycles.
Call and examine the models at our showrooms, or write for free
illustrated Catalogue.
Bennett 8 Barkell, Ltd.
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
124-132 Castlereag'H Street,
near Market St., Sydney.
HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
BY APPOINTMENT
JEWELLERS,
EBONY TOILET REQUISITES.
Ebony Hand Mirror, 14/-
Flat Ebony Cloth Brush, 3/-
Gentleman's Flat Ebony Hair
Brushes, 16/- per pair.
Ladies’ Flat Ebony Hair Brushes. £l/1/- per pair.
Case 7/- Extra.
INSPECTION
INVITED.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON OFFICE: 19 CHARTER HOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS
BOORS ON
GAS § OIL ENGINES
COME AND SEE THEM, IF POSSIBLE. OR WRITE US
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
N
BOOKSTALL C°, L T -°
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS)
476 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
The Tie of the
Century
(t
.iffe
OMN
XIE
4TT4CHEP
BovJ
.
h
end of those double"
fold Collar troubles
JUST an invisible but perfect little attachment' which
will fit any make or any size of double collar and can-
not get out of place until you remove it. ®JIf you buy
one attachment for each tie there will be no need to make
the knots more than once. ®SYou will treble the life of your
ties and collars. ®SLong usuage may result in your ties getting
soiled, but it is impossible to damage the material or spoil
the shape.
Price 6d.
or with Tie complete 1/6, 1/9, 2/-, 2/6, and 3/-.
Sold by all Outfitters


Something Smarter in Headwear.
Men’s Flush Velour Hats
at FARMER’S.
The most favored English and Continental Hat
Styles are pictured, as in a mirror, at Farmer’s.
Just received is a shipment of particularly smart
Plush Velour or Velvet Hats, in fashionable shades of
Myrtle, Saxe, Grey, Fox Fawn and Mid Green. The
Velour is the hat of the moment, and those we quote
will be welcomed by all smart-dressers.
Price 25/- each.
POPULAR ROUGH FELTS.
In best selected materials, and all the newest
color shades.
Prices 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6.
EVERYTHING A MAN NEEDS
IS BEST BOUGHT AT FARMER'S.
m ■
FARMER’S
SYDNEY.
FOR YOUR WEAK NERVES,
POOR APPETITE,
BROKEN REST,
SICK HEADACHE or
CONSTIPATION,
CLEMENTS TONIC
is a Curative, Unequalled Medicine.
Nurse Catherine Korting, of
Brunswick, Victoria, writes :
“Fourteen years ago as a nurse
I first used Clements Tonic, and I
have prescribed it times out of
number. I have seen people bless
the day they heard of it.”
ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES SELL IT,
UNSHRINKABLE
I UNDERWEAR.
By placing: very large contracts, and thereby
securing- special concessions in discounts, we are
enabled to offer these lines of STERLING QUALITY
and EXCEPTIONAL VALUE.
LADIES’
COMBINATIONS.
MEDIUM WEIGHT—NATURAL ALL-WOOL.
No. 84. Short Sleeves. Long- Sleeves.
S. Women’s 10/- 10/6
Women’s 10/6 11/6
O.S. Women’s .. .. 11/6 12/6
Extra O.S. Women’s .. 12/6 13/6
Ribbed Knees.
VESTS.
MEDIUM WEIGHT—NATURAL ALL-WOOL.
No. 84. Short Sleeves. Long Sleeves.
S. Women’s.. .. .. 5/6 6/-
Women’s 6/- 6/6
O.S. Women’s .. .. 6/6 7/6
Extra O.S. Women’s ..7/6 8/6
CHILDREN’S COMBINATIONS.
No. 84. MEDIUM WEIGHT—NATURAL ALL-WOOL.
Sizes .. ..2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Short Sleeves .. 4/6 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6
Long Sleeves .. 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6 8/-
MEN’S
PURE NATURAL WOOL UNDERSHIRTS.
No. 336. Long and Short Sleeves.
We Pay Postage on these throughout
the Commonwealth.
BALL & WELCH PTY., LTD.,
MELBOURNE. j
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 29, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Another nightingale is singing of love to
her mate-to-be J. L. McMillan, one of the
young bloods of the Lands Department, has
pledged himself to a nice girl who was lately
a popular member of the nursing staff at the
Homoeopathic Hospital. Mac, these times,
carries Edmund Fisher’s book of verses in
his pocket, and quotes:—
Fair Day Nurse, in her smiles arrayed,
Is graceful to the eye;
Her chatter is a song of life,
Of strength to do and healthful strife
For one and each and all.
Ilis particular fair one is a granddaughter
of John Zevenboom —wise old John, who
was a Melbourne alderman, and vice-consul
for the Netherlands, and a pioneer of the
brush-making trade in this city.
Mrs. Andrew Lyell, who shone in Mel-
bourne’s expensive circles in earlier days,
drifted quietly through this city during the
winter horse-racing, taking note of the many
changes, and here and there recognising a
familiar face. She has gone on to Sydney
to rest and watch the falling rain from a
Potts Point flat.
Jack Thompson, who dropped bachelor-
dom late in life, and married one of the
smart and wealthy Western District Robert-
sons, is now jaunting through Britain with
his wife.
Bridegroom Baillieu dodges about ’Change
with an arm in a sling, the result of a spill
in the hunting paddock. The black scarf
is tied at the back with a dainty bow,
which . plainly bears the impress of many
wifely little pats.
Tom Stone, a Melbourne man, and brother
to the Doughty lady (once “Tryphena,” of
this column), is departing to take up a posi-
tion with the Canadian Fisheries, at Vic-
toria, B.C. His wife and little daughter
follow him in three months or so, when they
have finished the packing. The Doughty
knight was a member of the recent British
Fisheries Commission which journeyed to
Canada, and probably put in a good word
for brother-in-law Tom.
Mollie Atherton, a pretty society damsel
of these parts who has a habit of lionising
theatrical folk, has annexed a fiance abroad.
Captain Sinclaire White is the name of the
lucky man. He is reported to own a com-
fortable income, and Mollie herself will have
a pretty dowry.
Mr. and Mrs. Meyers, of the London
Stores, gave their employees a dance in the
Masonic Hall, last week. The best people
of the softgoods world were unloaded at the
door by overawed horse and oil cabmen, and
collected again with a loud whirring and
clattering of hoofs in the dark and fearfully
cold hours that crawl serpentwise before the
dawn. The dance, which was sandwiched in
between, was quite a model affair.
Johnson, a dental doctor from the U.S.,
with a dressy wife and two smart daugh-
ters, has been dined and smoke-nighted by
the local fangsmiths, and listened to with
respect by the dental students to whom he
has spoken noble words — i.e., that they are
to work for the good of the people, and put
thoughts of amassing wealth into the back-
ground. He didn’t absolutely forbid them
to send in a bill, but went as near it as
humanly possible. The absolutely uncom-
mercial dentist is an impossible ideal, like
the uncommercial grocer.
Mrs. Arthur Payne, mistress of the big,
lonely Scotsburn mansion, is grass widowing
while hubby makes a brief business dash to
London. Later on, they are to take a more
leisurely journey together towards the wil-
derness of top hats.
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Mitchell (he is the
turfy squatter who races Trafalgar) packed
a cabin trunk not long ago, and fled to Fiji
to see how the uncles were looking. The
uncles failing to hold 'their interest, they
repacked and went on to Honolulu, and
thence to America. They were last heard of
in England.
Vivienne, the John Highett chick, who
arrived here last Monday by the Mongolia,
was a delightful revelation to friends and
relatives, who last saw her in the white
frock and blue-sash period of her existence.
Nowadays, she is a smart girl. Grandma
Payne is a cousin of an old-time Governor
of Victoria, the most noble Marquis of Nor-
manby, who cultivated chickens, and was
very economical indeed with regard to en
tertaining. Vivienne, the beauty of these
times, was born in Australia, reared in Cali-
fornia, and spent four years in England and
one in India. So her taste in climate is
fairly cosmopolitan.
Tiny Robertson, whose expensively clothed
little form was once a familiar and welcome
sight on the Block, has become a victim to
frayed nerves and the usual rest cure. Since
her marriage to the late barrister Purves’s
second son, Philip, the pair have dwelt in
the Western District cot which was left to
Tiny, along with a comfortable income, by
her thoughtful father.
Another well-known Melbourne girl who
has given way to an ’itis is Mrs. Norman
Fenner, once Lilian Stirling. These days
she is mostly a boarder in father’s hospital,
and the damaged nerves are giving her
parental adviser much trouble, not to men-
tion anxiety.
Passed through Melbourne recently, pretty
Dora Ohlfsen. She came from Italy to pay
a flying visit to her mother, Mrs. Bagge, and
was in time to see sister Rita before she died.
The little pianiste, who had just come back
from India, passed out very suddenly. The
Bagges, rich in looks and brains, are the
daughters of Charles Ohlfsen, a Ballarat
engineer. Of late years the family’s head-
quarters have been in Sydney.
Maoriland’s newly-stocked Cabinet con-
tains at least two persons of social interest
in these parts. F. M. B. Fisher, who is to
look after the Customs, came to Melbourne
last year. He talked well at every oppor-
tunity. Between times, he played tennis with
his left hand amongst Chirnsides and Powers,
and accumulated a heap of popularity.
Fisher, who looks young with his hat on, is
proud of having been beaten only by the
superhuman Wilding on the Maoriland
courts. He journeyed to Geelong last year,
and took the doubles trophy, with the aid
of Parker, from Sydney. Another new Min-
ister, Captain H. R. Rhodes, is one of the
Rhodes legion, and brother to Mrs. Alister
Clarke, of Bulla ; whilst Alister’s sister shares
liis name and cash. He carries the port-
folio of P.M.G., and wears a South African
medal, gained in the great henpaign that
hatched out Barnum-Powell.
The smart crowd which glides at the
Glassy Harem is talking of a fancy-dress
carnival, which is to happen next Tuesday
(6th). These occasional gaudy nights at
the great cooling chamber in City-road are
usually humorous, and the coming event
promises to be as merry and bright as the
best of them.
The Shakspeare Society will be at it
again this Friday night in the Independent
Hall. The programme announces ’“Macbeth”
as the “business” to come under discussion.
Seems almost sacrilegious to refer to the
Bard’s immortal tragedy as “business”!
Mrs. Bramley reads a paper on Lady Mac,
and Edward Stevens is to argue the question
whether Shakspeare’s text has been tam-
pered with, and, if so, who was the tam-
perer? Sol Bloom and Miss Lazarus will
recite scenes and passages, and Rev. Sugden
will have a say before the wild night closes.
But, seemingly, no member of the society
is game to take the platform as the trinity
of witches.
The vagaries of the Victorian Artists’
Society, as_ regards dress, baffle the truly
“Bohemian” section. The dauber’s ordinary
working clothes, which accord so well with
the official premises’ general air of dilapi-
tion, are mostly the order of the evening.
But suddenly, without warning of any kind,
the place breaks out into evening dress, and
the cheerful casual who arrives in plain duds
with the stains of work still on his fingers
is terrified by a roomful of bare shoulders,
white shirt-fronts and the sad black coat-
tails that are the carnival sign of Utter
Respectability. The unconventional soul
who loathes evening dress would as soon be
confronted by a roomful of lost souls. In
fact, he would prefer it. A batch of lost
souls would make an excellent study,
whereas a number of people in and out of
uniform are utterly commonplace.
The Ladies’ Kennel Club held its annual
bark amidst mud, in Wirths’ Circus, last
week. The Pomeranians and pugs curled
up disgustedly, and snorted at the wintry
draughts as if to say that drives in closed
motors were the only fit amusements for
such weather. One pug was priced at £250.
I didn’t buy it. The nerve tension involved
in seeing that Capital didn’t leave the back-
yard would have killed me in less than a
week. Besides, so far as I am aware, you
can’t hurry into a bank and get the cashier
to accept your dog as a fixed deposit, suppos-
ing that you desire to temporarily leave the
country. I think I would prefer to have a
£250 bear or some large furred animal that
could be made into a coat and muff when
dead. Mrs. Elliott had a wonderful run of
luck with her field spaniels, and got away
with three trophies and a blue ribbon amidst
a howling wilderness or blizzard of dog.
The Arts and Crafts people cordially in-
vite loan contributions of pottery for the
next exhibition. Anyone with an elephan-
tine and disastrous Mary Anne on the pre-
mises should seize this chance of temporarily
putting the fragile household treasures be-
yond reach of her reckless duster and raw,
barbaric elbow.
The two women’s clubs here (they are
known respectively as “The Gas Club” and
“The Sour Grapes”) are flourishing. The
Gas Club recently almost enrolled 70 mem-
bers ; but only 69 managed to pass through
the needle’s eye. The Sour Grapes is also
putting forth new shoots, and the hallstand
bears a heavy crop of damp umbrellas these
wintry days.
The Malvern second edition of the “Kis-
met” dance, held in aid of a charity, wasn’t
entirely successful from Mrs. Grundy’s point
of view. Some of the smartest people went
along; but they mostly flung discretion to
the draughts, and dared to perform the
Bunny Hug, the Turkey Trot, and the
Grizzly Bear. Then the guests—or some of
them —considered that the supply of liquid
refreshment was inadequate. Reserves were
called out from the Mayor’s cupboard, and
additional supplies were procured from a
neighboring hotel. Some couples, later, mis-
took a private garden for a sitting-out pad-
dock, and others wandered sentimentally into
an adjacent churchyard. The ticket money
is not exactly pouring in, and a puzzled
Mayoress is wondering how hard she will
have to jog some of the revellers’ memories.
Mrs. Walters, an attractive young matron,
has written three songs for tenor Paul
Dufault. The dainty bits of melody were
not quite ready for the concert co.’s Mel-
bourne season, but are to be warbled else-
where in the State.
Cisneros, arrayed brilliantly in Paddy
green and gold, and wearing a gold snake
with emerald eyes wound round her hair,
gave a farewell matinee concert to a good
house. Bland Holt shed tears in the front
row at “Kathleen Mavourneen,” whilst Mrs.
Bland hid under a black hat fitted with
white wings. Possibly she wept unobserved.
Mrs. Mayoress Wilks, of Malvern, sat among
the most select suburban set. The propor-
tion of men in the audience was fully 50
per cent. —an unusual matinde spectacle.
The Fuller lady came to the Repertory
Theatre’s production of Louis Esson’s
comedy in a splendid fur overcoat, accom-
panied by Captain Wheatley. Prime Minis-
ter Fisher left a sitting House to watch the
Prime Minister on the stage. He wore a
workaday grey sac suit, and contrasted dem-
ocratically with the beautiful evening-dress
Help who sat on the other side of him. But
then the life-work of a Help is to look beau-
tiful in immaculate evening dress.
Melba is delaying her flight Londonward
in order to attend the Newsboys’ Ball, on
August 7. Lady Fuller fans with a most
expensive hat the enthusiasm of society
dames, who are motoring round the city
leaving placards at shops with priceless, gold-
stuffed smiles, and, where possible, getting
help from charitably-inclined firms. “Fancy
and plain dress” is the order of the evening.
Henri Hoile, a young, six-foot artistic
sun-worshipper, who dwells with his wife
somewhere in the hill country round Mel-
bourne, has been putting some of his god
on canvas. The pair have brought half a
hundred pictures into this sunless city, and
hung them for inspection in the Besant
Rooms, in the new Centre Way. A glimpse
of a big white gum with trunk stripped of
bark, and its proud head high in the air, is
calculated to catch the eye of every home-
loving Australian. A breezy seascape, “Off
Williamstown,” might be any salted view,
with a stormy sunset brooding over it. Most
of his sea bits have been captured round the
bay. An interesting show, and well worth
a pilgrimage!
From my Adelaide correspondent
The Point-to-Point Steeplechase transpired at Sea-
ton on Saturday. Frank Downer —a one-time M.F.H. —
drove the Governor and his two daughters to the
scene of action, on the Hunt Club coach. There were
only six starters, and three of the steeds were owned
by the Master —W. S. Bright. Black Sea, a previous
winner of this event, was steered to victory by Mr.
Neville Colley, whose own horse, Mark Time, was
second, ridden by Mr. P. D. Bright. Tea was rushed
by an immense crowd, with an enthusiasm that was
absolutely embarrassing. It was ever thus where free
feeds were concerned. After tea there was a run
with the hounds over the Point-to-Point course, and
a dinner at Bricknell’s cafe wound up a strenuous
day. Amongst the crowd on the road were Dr. and
Mrs. O’Leary, who had a horse in the race ; the Fen-
ners, John Corbins, Bronte Smeatons, Albion Tolleys,
Hylands, Alan Macfarlanes and a host of others.
Mrs. Private Secretary Rowe and Mrs. Nat Camp-
bell gave a bridge and skating afternoon at the Elite
Rink last week. Lady Bosanquet and her daughters
were there, and the Governor looked in for a few chill
moments. Mrs. Row’s frock was of black taffeta,
with touches of vivid green. Her colleague wore pale
grey and pink. Among the guests Were Mrs, Ralli,
Mrs. and Miss London, Mrs. O’Halloran Giles, Mrs.
Herbert Rymill, Miss Cudmore and her sister, Mrs.
Way and Mrs. Julian Ayers.
Costume balls are going very strong just now.
The recent one, in aid of the Ladies’ Clothing Guild,
seemed to fill the Exhibition Building with all the
bright-hued rags in the Commonwealth. Another in-
stitution to profit by humanity’s innate love of gyrat-
ing to music was the Home for Incurables.
Mrs. Michael Hawker gave a so-called flapper dance
at Walkcrville on Friday evening. It was not what
one might call intolerantly flapperish, since no dance
can live by flappers alone, so to speak, nowadays.
The adult female and her friend, the grown-up young
man, were there in considerable quantities, and the
thing was a vast success.
Mrs. Maxwell Fowler, Mrs. R. Colley and Mrs.
Julian Ayers asked their friends to tea at the Cafe
Rubeo on Friday afternoon. The Rows gave a dinner
there on Tuesday, with the object of buoying people
up for the mask and domino ball, and Mr. “Bob”
Melrose did the same by about 30 guests, with a like
kindly object. The ball at Bricknell’s went well, and
hostesses Fenner, H. and A. Rymill, Murray and
O’Leary had the glad hand of congratulation and
approval extended to them, with great heartiness.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Dutton left for Sydney last
week, and I see they have been foregathering with
Vice-Royalty in that much-wronged old city—a
chronic habit of theirs, by the way. Miss Luscombe
and the Sidney Ayers deserted us about the same
time; likewise Captain Fletcher.
Mr. C. J. Symon was formally admitted to the
South Australian Bar on Tuesday. He is a son of
’Siah, and is understood to be afflicted or menaced
with an intellect.
Ambassador Bryce hustled good and hard, as they
are accused of saying in the U.S., while in these
parts. He visited every public building, from libra-
ries to hospitals, interviewed everyone, inquired into
polities and railway schemes, and generally made
things hum. His final effort was to dash down and
see the Point-to-Point, and then tear back and catch
the Melbourne express, and so away like a grey, hard-
bitten old streak of lightning.
A lady who calls herself “one of the unclaimed
Blessings,” has been clamoring in the Register for
Protection. It appears that an English girl sent her
photo, to the editor, and asked to be put into com-
munication with “some nice Australian boy,” at
which inequitable and unsportsmanlike bit of poach-
ing the local Blessing was naturally exasperated. She
wants the editor to discourage all such designing
minxes, on the ground that there are “hundreds o'?
Australian girls, hard-working, smart and prettv
who can’t marry, because the young men don’t give
them the chance.”
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
On the evidence of recent happenings, every
penny spent on the improvement of Nam-
bucca “harbor” (N.S.W.) has been wasted.
For three months the wretched place has
been silted up. Vessels inside couldn’t get
out, and vessels outside couldn’t get in, and
enormous quantities of produce have rotted
away while waiting for a chance to escape.
Nambucca is one of the horrors of the con-
gestion policy. It ranks among the many
places which have been encouraged because
of their rottenness and incapacity—in other
words, because they are so bad that only tiny
vessels can use them, and these vessels, being
too small for long voyages, must tranship at
Sydney, for the profit of the Sydney middle-
men. Their recomrdendation is that they are
feeders of Sydney—very poor feeders, too —
but can never be rivals. A sane policy would
develop the few good deep-water ports that
N.S.W. possesses, and concentrate the adja-
cent trade there by a network of railways
as is done in the case of Sydney, which
doesn’t profess to run little subsidiary har-
bors at Botany Bay or the mouth of the
Hawkesbury. And it would give up try-
ing to patch hopeless penn’orths of slop
like Nambucca. This careful cultivation of
bad harbors .to the exclusion of good ones
grows too expensive. A stereotyped cry of
the Tory when any reform was threatened
used to be: “What will they think of us in
England?” If some day England is sup-
plied with a full account of the policy which
is responsible for Nambucca and such like
places, it will probably think a great deal
about us.
♦
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
A glimpse of Governor Bourke , is to be obtained
in Thomas Carlyle’s “Irish Journey,” made in 1849:
“Wednesday, 25th July. Sir Richard Bourke, a
fine old soldier, once Governor of N. S. Wales, a man
of 75 or 80: Something still military, mildly arbi-
trary, in his household government (I find), and
ways of procedure. Interesting kind of old Irish-
British figure. Lean, clean face, hacked with sabre
scars and bullet scars; inextinguishably lively, grey-
bead eyes; head snow-white; low voiced. Bought
this place on his return 30 years ago; a
black, bare bog then, beautifully improved
now, shaded with good wood, neat little houses
and offices, neat walks, sunk fences, drains and
flourishing fields ; again the ‘stamp of a man’s image.’
I smoke, and, lounge about the grounds all morning,
having breakfasted with ‘Master Richard,’ who is off
to Limerick for the day. Welcome enough solitude.
The two ladies kind and polite, ditto the young Eng-
lishman. Solitude is preferable.”
There are other mentions of Richard Bourke —one
after he had driven Carlyle into Limerick to pick up
Charles Gavan Duffy at the hotel, where he (Car-
lyle) is transferred to the care of a Galway editor,
Edward Butler—the same Butler who was afterwards
Attorney-General of N. S. Wales. The “Master
Richard” of Carlyle’s account was in N. S. Wales
as Private Secretary, but was packed off in 1834, as
the result of some scandal at Parramatta, with a
young girl in the case. Sir Richard left his wife
in St. John’s Cemetery, Parramatta. Numerous
descendants of the family remain in Sydney in the
Deas-Thomson family. As for “Master Richard.” he
never returned to his wild oats, but lived on at Thorn-
field, in Ireland, where he died only seven or eight
years ago, aged 92.


n
■. *
.
s
'
. !
*
7
;
;V?:V
r,:
'
* ;
I
7
m
I
1 i S
rr
s
.
: ,
'
• - I
1
V
rar
* .
I7:^7i
:, '
■
-s,
o
• -
m
:
■■
■
.
I
>
I
-
1 ■: ■:
.
. 1;!-
‘
IS
A
WTP>
ISMngp
w
r C 7 I
i !
►
4
m
fevP
laiCA
i
By Special Appointment
to their lSxoolLenoios the
Governors of Queensland
and New South Wales
s
©
m
Ity Special Appoinlmcnl
<o their {Excellencies the
Governors of Queensland
and New South Wales.
INTELLI-
GENT
TAILORING
YOUR
CLOTMES
SUGGEST!
<HQne of the greatest l|ws/)f human
nature is the law flfyslggestion.
You are attracted by a passffit-by In the stieet.
*1 Instantly’your mind with some-
thing his clothes suggest. 1.. or
vulgarity —or even with failui®v^ Your
mental camera snaps an in%ressi.ori —#md that
mpression sometimes lingers permanently through years of relation.
31 Here then, is a principle, SO tremendous that no roan can aftoi-d to
lisdain it —what ever his place in life.
q[ Why not wear the clothes that suggest the aims and ®wer and
prosperity your cherish tPjT - ”
q[ The virtue Of the clothes Tailored by “PIKE BROTH IT ED
ies in their unique gentlemanly charactei.
qr It is truly s-aid that the best dressed men in the
Commonwealth wear these clothes.
qi If you have a suit x
f Australia’s finest productions.
9T If IlOt, we’d have you see the Patterns
FULL RANGE together with OUR LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE,
FRF.F. ON REQUEST.
14
&
■
risllßTO, fotmtsfaxlk ®ootooflmba mxb lonium.


SUFFERED FOR TEN YEARS.
“I have been a constant sufferer from severe at-
tacks of Colic for the past 10 years, at times being
unconscious,” writes Mr. A. J. Cresswell, Birre-
gurra (Vic.). “The only thing that gives me relief
is Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, and
I am never without a bottle in the house.”*
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Tty CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
HEADACHE AND MIGRIM, two curses of modern
civilised life, are in ninety-nine cases out of a hun-
dred closely connected with functional disturbance
of the bowels. The simplest and best of all remedies
for the latter trouble is a wincglassful of “IIUN-
YADI JANOS” Natural Aperient Water, taken before
breakfast every second or third morning.*
BABY’S LITTLE TROUBLES.
Baby’s cough, if not attended to, often results in
croup and other serious troubles. Always keep a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery handy, and be
prepared. Every bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. Cd.
and 3s.*
Tired and worn out after your trip ? Take a dose
of Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract—relieves all
fatigue; imparts a feeling of freshness and energy. *
m
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Wriie.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“8.J.H.0.”: Bloomfield Rees, M.L.C.
(Vic.), who has just returned from Pata-
gonia, where he has been endeavoring to
secure Welsh settlers for this country, states
that the Six Hatters lie is still alive and
kicking over there. At Valparaiso a ship-
ping company objected to taking immigrants
to Australia, unless they deposited sufficient
coin to pay their return passage in the
event of this country pushing them into the
sea. Everywhere Rees found that the old
lie was swallowed whole by the inhabitants,
even as good Christians swallow the quaint
narrative of Jonah and the whale. And the
Stinking Fish Tories who ushered the
shameless Six Hatters prevarication and its
twin brother, the Petriana myth, into the
sunlight, are now howling loudly for immi-
grants and demanding to know why they
aren’t arriving faster.
In the commercial columns of Melbourne
Age there lately appeared a brief paragraph
stating that, according to usually reliable
calculations the area sown with wheat in
the Weary State this year is approximately
2,274,275 acres. That is a fair-sized pad-
dock—but. according to the Victorian Gov-
ernment Statist, the area sown last year
was 2,408,454, and the year before it was
2,702,460, and those figures don’t look
pretty. Practically, they mean that some-
where near a thousand square miles of land
have gone out of wheat cultivation. Mean-
while, the State has placed something like
2000 families on closer settlements, including
about 000 irrigators, so evidently the real
progress the State is making in breaking up
and settling its locked-up lands would do
little credit even to a snail.
Within the last 12 months the stock of
gold in the N.S.W. banks has diminished by
£2,243,866, and this outflow wasn’t caused
the exchange of gold for Australian
notes,_for the stock of notes only increased
by £253,671. It is merely a case of capital
leaving the country. Exactly how it is
leaving is shown afresh by the trade re-
turns. For the first six mouths of 1912 the
two most populous States, N.S.W. and Vic-
toria. imported from over sea £26,746,945
worth of foreign goods, which is £4,615,515
more than during the first half of 1911.
There was no corresponding increase in the
export of goods, so the two States sent
away over £4,000,000 of gold in part pay-
ment, and as they didn’t produce anything
like that amount their stock of coin dimin-
ished alarmingly. The flight of capital is
plain enough—likewise the reason of the
flight.
A MATTER OF BUSINESS.
We are here to talk not only to this audience, but
to the people of New South Wales, and beyond and
above all -we want to talk to the people of the rest
of. the world. — Premier McGowen.
McGOWEN: “Go on! Git! I have something
to day to these more important gentlemen."
Some day the world will be able to decide
whether Britain is really having a revolu-
tion or not. In its beginnings, a revolution
and a mere period of unrest are often so
much alike that the case can’t be immedi-
ately diagnosed. The famous French up-
heaval had been going on for a few years
before it was identified. Meanwhile, strikes
and riots appear to grow larger in Bull’s
country, and the Suffragettes who throw
axes at the Prime Minister are acquiring a
better aim. Also, lie has been seized and
shaken by a disaffected person, and wdien a
Prime Minister is shaken immediately after
a heavy dinner, it is unpleasant.
The defaulting or levanting husband hav-
ing, of late years, grown into an absolute
custom of the matrimonial trade, each of the
six States is now inviting itself, and the
other five, to pass measures designed to force
married males to do their duty by their
families. The badly-needed reform could
be achieved more easily, less expensively
and with absolute certainty by the Aus-
tralian Parliament were the Constitution So
amended as to give it power to do so. As
things are, the chances are that one can-
tankerous House in one of the States will
reject or radically amend the measure, as
a result of which that State will acquire a
sudden increase of population through its
being a sanctuary for the basest variety of
grass widower that the world wots of, and
the whole scheme will fall to pieces, and the
six blessed Bills will be things of naught
and wads of waste paper.
HIS SHARE OF IT.
Has the farmer time for party politics? Will not
his strength lie rather in combining to see that the
politician in power, whoever he may be, does the fair
thing? etc., etc.—S. M. HERALD.
STOUT POLITICIAN: “ No, no, friend, you
can't understand. Wot you've gotten do is
to 'elp me to a nice seat up ’ere, and then
go back I yer work, while I stays up there
an ’ keeps a look-out for yor enemies, seep'
“Leo Lear” : Talking of lighthouses—no
one was, but what matter? —the far wes-
tern Victorian ship-warner at
Cape Nelson has a history. Just
after Berry had mown down
opposition throughout the Cab-
bage Garden in the elections of
1877, several members met to
pass the time o’ night in Stutt’s
Hotel, Bourke-street. Peter
Lalor was there. He mentioned
that Berry had offered him
the Customs. However, he said
that his majority in Grant was
too small to allow him to
accept. One Tytherleigh, from
the Far West, promptly said
that Peter could have his seat
in Normanby in the event, of
defeat. Lalor was duly grate-
ful, and 'threateHed Tyther-
leigh that he would yet do him
a good turn. On becoming a
Minister he sought out the
friendly stranger and asked
if he wanted anything. “Yes,”
replied Tytherleigh, “I want a
lighthouse for Cape Nelson.”
And he got the one that is there to-day.
A quaint feature of the Parliamentary
shindy over the appointment of engineer
Chinn to supervise the construction, of the
Ivalgoorlie-Port Augusta railway was the
mock indignation of King O’Malley, who, pro-
fessed that the attack on a man who was not
able to speak there in his own defence was
“one of the most shameful things that had
happened.” Nobody can speak in Parlia-
ment unless he is a member, and if a man
is jobbed into a salaried position for which
he is wholly unfit, he can’t be a member,
there being a law to prevent that kind of
duplication. So O’Malley’s heated argu-
ment was ' really to the effect that no sus-
pected job should be questioned in Parlia-
ment, because the alleged jobbee is always
out of Parliament. Even the wildest insur-
ance agent should recognise the inadequacy
of that defence.
FREEDOM IN POLITICS.
We are not without our impracticable cranks in
Australia, who consider themselves too large-souled
and too independent to work with any party.... The
party system honestly and reasonably worked on
Liberal lines, is still the best device which Britons
have discovered for carrying on Government.
—Argus.
THE PRESS AND COK.: "Not that we f' wun
moment b’leeves in caucuses ; but we finds
'em just as easy t' manage this way!”
The direct result of certain persons’
assumed superiority to Royal Commissions
is seen in the Amending Bill now before the
Representatives. The measure isn’t long
but it is sudden. It
raises the penalty for
failing to attend, when
summoned to give evi-
dence or to produce
documents, from £5O
to £5OO, with a similar
increase for refusing
to give evidence. If a
witness persistently
refuses to attend he
may be 1 arrested and
detained until released
by the chairman of the
commission that wants
his evidence, power
being given the ex-
ecuting officer to break
into and enter any
building or vessel in
order to effect the cap-
ture. Arrest does not
absolve the culprit
from the payment of
any fine inflicted, and
a second offence will
cost him from £5OO to
£lOOO. Five years’
imprisonment is the
punishment for giving
false evidence, or for
bribery or attempted
bribery of a witness.
The perpetration of
fraud on a witness or
th e destruction of
documents will mean
two years’ gaol; while
a £5OO fine or one
year’s gaol is the guer-
don of anyone who
prevents a witness
from attending, or in-
jures him on account
of evidence, or dis-
misses a witness from
employment. Common
or garden contempt
of commission will
mean £lOO or three months. A final clause
makes it not retrospective as to facts or
evidence, but applicable to future proceed-
ings and evidence to be given before com-
missions already in existence —the Sugar
Commission, f’rinstans. So things are going
to be cut very short —thank Heaven.
Another boost is given to the world’s food
scarcity and its rising prices. The Nether-
lands Government has forbidden the export
of rice from Java and the rest of the Dutch
Indies, and has taken them definitely out of
the list of planes on which England and
such-like lands can rely for their food supply.
Population has become so dense in the Dutch
Indies that the paternal Government reckons
there is no longer any surplus food. Specu-
lators are still willing to buy the grain for
export, but the old baggy white father at
Amsterdam thinks he should consider the
health and stomach of his own nigger first.
This habit of prohibiting the export of food
is likely to grow.
“Melb” writes: —
Taffy Rees, a member of the Victorian Parliament,
incurred some newspaper jokery last year, through
going to Patagonia to fetch Welsh people. Yet he is
justified, for he has secured 31 families as a first
batch. Each has not less than £lOOO, and one has
£3OOO. The first consignment of Welshers went to
Patagonia in 1856. There are nearly 4000 settled in
the fertile Chubut Valley, under the Argentine Gov-
ernment. Yet they are not happy. They are like
Jews or Boers preserving nationality l and religion.
The Argentines want them to conform. The Welsh
won’t naturalise, partly because they hate military
service, and also because the Spanish language taught
in the schools hasn’t enough consonants for them.
The Canadians enticed some away to Calgary, N.W.
America, but they find the seven months’ snow nasty.
A particular grievance is through the Argentine Gov-
ernment not allowing the seed export of alfalfa or
lucerne from the Chubut Valley, because it is so pecu-
liarly rich. Nevertheless, the old fogies and fogiesses
(in the peaked witch hats) are intensely attached to
the Chubut, and say to the ardent younger people:
“You may go to Australia and fare worse.” What
do we say? Anyhow, the Welsh do better than poor
Apostle Lane, in Paraguay.
“Galleryite” on the Chinn outbreak: —
I’ve dangled my ears over various Parliamentary
galleries long enough to hear many unsavory thing's
about giving away Government billets ; and the accu-
mulated wisdom of my years leads me to the pro-
found conclusion that it would be a condemned hard
thing to find an intelligent officer outside the Public
Service who has not taken an intelligent interest in
politics. Therefore, I rule the objection that Chinn
was a Labor supporter to be out of order and in con-
travention of the rules of May which forbid irrele-
vance. But, nevertheless, I want an answer to this
statement by Oppositionist Fowler: —
“An advertisement appeared in the Commonwealth
Gazette on February 24, 1912, weeks after the ap-
pointment had been made, calling for applications
from engineers for the Port Augusta-Kalgoorlie rail-
way line (two required).”
Were there only two billets available, and had Chinn
already got one? Kink O’Malley should explain this,
or I’ll remain dissatisfied.
“Locust” writes :—■
Professor Bryce (or Mr. Bryce, as he prefers to be
called now), may not be aware how profoundly his
book on the “American Commonwealth” influenced
the Australian Commonwealth Constitution makers
in 1891 and 1897 and ’9B. The book was quoted by
tlie column. It obsessed Barton, O’Connor, Downer,
the draftsman in the latter convention, as it had
Griffith, Deakin and Barton, and even Kingston, in
the earlier (1891) convention. It is probably the
cause of a number of our constitutional difficulties to-
day, inasmuch as our leaders followed American pre-
cedents as slavishly as was compatible with the
equally slavish copying of the “unwritten” Consti-
tution' of Britain with party government at its apex.
Continental examples, useful as many of their con-
stitutional devices are, were hardly considered, and
a quotation from Bryce easily demolished any refer-
ences to them.
The prospect of having to turn themselves
into decently honest, patriotic citizens is
sending the Rodney (Yic.) landowners
(where Sammy Lancaster and the Kya-
bram movement came from) crazy. Pressed
by Irrigationist Mead, Premier Watt and
Minister Graham have ukased that “the
water is available for irrigation, and it will
be charged for, at the rate of ss. per acre
per annum, whether it is used or not” ; to
which Rodney has replied, through its pre-
cious municipal council, that, “if that is so
half the present settlers will be gone inside
five years.” That would be a dire calamity
were it not for one drawback, viz., that
these departing settlers cannot take the
water and the land with them, consequently
they must be replaced by other settlers. Iu
which case the public, which has footed so
many and such heavy bills for Rodney,
would merely urge the departers not to de-
lay their trek for five years. Five months
would be long enough.
“Vulcan”: The report that the Yankee
Meat Trust was about to plant . its large,
competition-obliterating hoof in this country
at Queensport (Q.) was denied with the
sudden promptitude one usually expects from
a non-existing person. A few days later the
“Australian Meat Export Company, Limited,
capital £200,000, in 200,000 £1 shares,” was
registered in Brisbane, with the following
subscribers: —
Andrew J. Thynne, solicitor; William E. Lalor,
solicitor; David J. Hickey, accountant; Thomas
Goodall, law clerk; George H. Brittain, law clerk;
Michael A. R. Becher, law clerk ; and Bernard T.
McShea, law clerk, all of Brisbane.
It merely remains to remark in passing that
some of the above are the class of gentlemen
one usually expects to have £200,000 lying
about handy, and that it is quite natural,
and in the usual order of things, that they
should use it: — &
To purchase, sell, exchange, import, export, grow,
prepare for market or export, and turn to account
cattle, sheep, pigs, and live stock of every kind, and
carry on the business of butchers, etc.
What two solicitors, an accountant and four
law clerks don’t know about the meat busi-
ness isn’t worth knowing.
THE WOOING.
Luck isn’t Tasmania’s strong point. Dur-
ing the quarter which ended on March 31,
1912, the Federal Statistician estimates that
the population of the island diminished by
2116. That of the mainland increased by
35,761, and all the mainland States had a
look in. But the Strawberry Isle got the
glassy stare from Providence, as usual.
WHEN CONSOLS WENT TO SEVENTY-FOUR!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, July 19.
Consols sold to-day at £74. — Cable.
When Consols went to Seventy-four—’twas eighty-
seven years ago—
John Bull was getting over AA r ar, and Trade was very
(scarce and slow ;
And bread was dear, and strikes not few,
And mighty was John’s I O U ;
And Banks were closing by the score—
When Consols went to £74 !
When Consols went to Seventy-four—’twas but last
week, as you may see—
John Bull was half expecting AVar, while Jobs were
scarce, but very Free;
In fact they had begun to fly
AVhile Englishmen stood idly by—-
Perhaps this is the reason why
Consols have gone to £74!
J.SAV.
OLD ALLEYNIAN.
WHERE ARE YOU GOING?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Where are you going, my pretty trade?”
“I’m going to foreigners, sir,” she said.
“Why can’t you stay here, my pretty trade?”
“Because you won’t help me, sir,” she said.
“What is your father, my pretty trade?”
“My father’s Protection, sir,” she said.
“Say, will you marry me, my pretty trade?”
“If you’ll protect me, sir,” she said.
“What is your fortune, my pretty trade?”
“I would be your fortune, sir,” she said.
“But Cook wouldn’t like it, my pretty trade!”
“Nobody asked him, sir,” she said.
“You are a simpleton, Alf,” she said.
N.s.w.
E. O'F.


PALING’S made-to-order PIANO
Efte VICTOR.
B
"i
m
Having beerf in the piano business so long, and having
accumulated so much experience, we decided some
years ago to have a piano made specially to our
own design* This instrument had many improve-
ments specially adapted to local conditions, but the
chief object we had in view was the construction of
a piano that would stand true in tone in any climate.
So successful was the first piano, that we immedi-
ately placed large standing orders with the makers
for the supply of these instruments, and since then
we have sold thousands upon thousands to pleased
customers all over These people speak
highly of the musical qualities and perfect construction
of our own made-to-order piano, the VICTOR.
We confidently recommend you to investigate the merits of the Victor Piano if you desire a thoroughly reliable and wear-resisting
instrument.
A Victor in your home will give positive pleasure to every member of the family, and we guarantee it to wear for many years.
You are invited to visit our Show Rooms and inspect the Victor Piano.
If unable to call, we shall be pleased to send you post free, our Catalogue, Price Lists and particulars of our Easy Time Payments.
W. H. PALING CO., LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA.
r
smm
mm
m
M
wm
Jl
s.->
m
1
ss
si
Em
m
m
mm,
mm
Ss
0*
<k
Oh
%
\ mi
V i
v&
k
EXHIBITORS.
RE-OPEN YOUR PICTURE SHOW
WITH THE BEST
MACHINE MADE.
The Principal Exhibitors throughout the world
use the “ Ernemann All Steel Imperator ”
because it is the best obtainable
The New 1912 Model is improved to perfection
by the constant Optical Axis and the Triple
Main Shaft Bearing—
Do not buy a new Hachine till you have seen
the 1912 Model •
"ERNEMANN IMPERATOR.”
If you cannot call send for particulars to
I ■
UP
Sole Agents for Australasia.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
AUCKLAND (N. Z.), WELLINGTON (N.Z.)


International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
810-SHOWMEN!
T HERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
• it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
GREAT WOMAN’S REMEDY.
WEAKNESS AND POOR BLOOD
CAUSED MUCH SUFFERING
FROM GIRLHOOD TO WOMAN-
HOOD. SYDNEY WOMAN’S STORY.
In the case of Mrs. Martha Simmons, of
49 Cove Street, Balmain, Sydney, whose let-
ter appears below; another illustration is
..c
rv*l)
m
kN -*
Mrs. Martha Simmons.
From a photo.
given of the wonderful
properties of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, as a
Great Woman’s Remedy.
Bilious attacks and weak-
ness generally in her case
were but the symptoms of
other complaints peculiar
to woman. Many women
have found in Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills just the
same effective remedy that
Mrs. Simmons did, who
says in her last letter: —
“In my teens I suffered
very badly from Bilious
Attacks. My blood was
very poor, my whole sys-
tem became completely
run down, and on many
occasions I was so weak
that I had to be supported home by my
schoolmates. As I grew older I did not
seem to overcome my weakness, and I was in
this state of health for a long time. Perio-
dical headaches, bilious attacks and consti-
pation were my constant ailments. I gave
many medicines a fair trial, but I did not
receive any permanent relief. The salvation
of my life was Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills; it was wonderful how they relieved
me of bilious attacks. They put life into my
body, regulated my system, and I gradually
grew stronger, until I became a perfectly
healthy woman. I still use Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills occasionally, and heartily
recommend them to everybody. _ You may
use this testimonial just as you like for pub-
lication.”*
&
9*
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
yjhW
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor- General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Barry’s overthrow of Arnst by four
lengths on the Thames, last Monday afternoon, hit
most Australasians like a blow on the chin from a
bar of iron. But the minority were not surprised.
To begin with, Arnst made the mistake of under-
estimating his opponent. Then he had not been too
well. Also, a lot of time, which might have been
more advantageously occupied, was devoted to pigeon-
shooting. Pigeon-shooting, although it is the sort
of vice that rots a man’s soul, is not physically in-
jurious in itself. But it is damaging in a round-
about way. Most pigeon-shooters drink like fish
when the shooting is over, probably to drown con-
science ; and mixing up with a crowd of boosy bird-
murderers is no good to any athlete. Then again,
Arnst is a professional athlete, and his only exercise
is his training. Barry is a coal-heaver, and when
lie’s not sculling he’s heaving for his life ; and he is
a careful-living young man. Having no means where-
with to paint the town red, he leaves the town its
natural color. Arnst learned to scull in smooth
water, and when he met Barry on the Zambesi the
race was rowed in smooth, sluggish water. Arnst
was accustomed to that and Barry was not. Also, on
that occasion, Barrv was far from being in the best
of health. This time the race was rowed on a swift-
running, jobbly stream, to which Barry was accus-
tomed and Arnst wasn’t. Arnst was the man who
had not been too well, and, altogether, he was in
much the same position in England as Barry was in
Africa. He won the toss, and, choosing the southern
side of the river, started at 38 strokes to Barry’s
36, and immediately went to the front. But he
never got more than a length and a half away.
Barry let him lead about half way, and then began
to creep up, and passed him. Next he made the pace
hot —in fact, he boiled it- —and cracked up Arnst
800yds. from the finish, dead beat. Barry hurried
on, and covered the distance in 23min. Bsec.
The dearth of motor cycle operatives in
Britain is likely to lead to the establishment of a
new Australian industry. So far behind demand are
the British suppliers that some of them, with a
remnant of that magnificent hide which enabled the
race to do a world’s record in national stealing, are
actually asking for £l2 premium for the prompt
delivery of a machine. A Melbourne firm has laid
down a large assembling factory, and has also,
somehow, managed to break through the British
makers’ determination not to supply parts for
assembling abroad, and arranged for a regular sup-
ply. At present, at least 80 per cent, of the bikes
used in Australia are locally assembled; and if the
patent parts can be obtained at a reasonable figure,
there is no reason why the motor-bikes should not
hold the same high place on the list of home
manufactures.
* * * *
The cyclist is the wharf-lumper of ath-
leticism —for ever in a turmoil. The bodies that
govern cycling seem to be largely composed of bull-
headed ruffians, who have neither the sense to avoid
going out into the rain or to come in out of it when
they find they are getting wet. The latest trouble is
the riot between the Victorian League of Wheelmen
and the Victorian Inter-Club Cycling Association, a
body which has the strenuous support of the Vic-
torian Cycle Traders’ organisation. They are fight-
ing for the control of'Victorian road-racing; and by
the time they have finished there will be no cycling
to control. Already the big Dunlop Rubber Go.
has notified both parties that while the war is raging
there will be no action taken towards promoting the
Warrnambool to Melbourne road race; and that if
the row isn’t ended quickly the classic race will be
dropped altogether for this year, if not for ever. It
will be a killing blow to the sport if the Warrnam-
bool is allowed to drop, but the Dunlop Cos. is de-
termined to abolish it unless a conference is held and
a working agreement come to between the rival
factions.
The League of Wheelmen has itself to blame
for the trouble. It was apparently quite un-
interested in road racing, and if it did not dis-
courage it, damned it with such faint support that
open hostility would have been better. So the road!
racers asked to be allowed to appoint a governing
body of their own, to be affiliated with the League
of Wheelmen. Then the League rose, and in an
arrogant manner talked about mutiny and sudden
suppression, and other drastic things. It declined
to allow the road racers to manage their own affair,
and it flatly refused to do anything towards properly
managing their affairs. So the road racers formed
a strong body of their own, and seceded from the
League. What else the League expected them to do
would be interesting to know. A little tact, and
some decency and fair play when the first vigorous
blast of protest blew along would have soothed
things. But the League boxed up what little tact it
had, and reached for the axe —to find that the edge
was chipped and blunt, and the sprung.
That attempt to fly by means of machines
propelled by human power only, recently promoted in
Paris by the Peugeot Cos., was a dead failure, the
conditions demanded that the machine should be
made to fly or jump 33ft. in one direction, and 10
minutes later fly or jump back again to where it
had started from. No less than 200 entered, but
only 25 faced the starter ; and of these -not one flew,
or ’even raised himself off the ground. Which re-
minds that there is a weird tale in a far back num-
ber of an old-time English monthly, the Gentleman s
Magazine, of a flying man who gyrated over London
on a pair of planes, shaped like wings, propelled
by some mechanism which was driven by his feet.
He was ordered by public notice to desist, but ignored
the orders, and a warrant was issued for his arrest.
As nobodv could serve it he continued to fly at in-
tervals, but came to an untimely end through being
caught in a sudden gale of wind, and dashed against
a chimney, off which he ricochetted to the ground.
Somehow, this writer has always had his doubts about
the veracity of that yarn; and the experiment in
Paris makes him even more doubtful. #
New York authorities have made an ex-
haustive series of tests as to what speed motorists
should travel at while scudding through towns. In
Parramatta, and other municipalities close around
Sydney, the motorists are warned by red discs with
the figures painted on in white, to reduce speed to
four miles an hour. No motorist ever does reduce
speed to four miles an hour, and as there are prac-
tically no police, the motor-hog is a law unto him-
self. But when one goes hogging himself, he has to
admit that four miles an hour is a ridiculous speed,
and a dangerous one, for the car is well nigh unman-
ageable, owing to lack of proper way. The N’Yorkers
have decided that in the busy city streets 15 miles
per hour is a safe and reasonable speed ; 20 m.p.h.
in streets where houses are 50 yards apart, and 25
m.p.h. on open roads. And that it is about correct
will be endorsed by every fair-minded motorist. At
these speeds any pr.operly braked car .should be cap-
able of being brought to a standstill in one second. A
car that cannot should not be allowed on the roads.
Saturday was a horrible day m Sydney —
a day to be spent close to a fire, with a good book,
a bottle of the best, and a sweet cigar tucked into
the middle of the face. And yet—amazing as it may
seem —there were thousands of folk in Sydney so
devoid of home comforts that two League football
matches alone drew 21,000 people. Talk about
sending missions to the heathen! What is wanted
is a huge crusade to force women to make the
home comfortable, so that a man shall not have to
go to a football match on such a day to get away
from dull, drab monotony. However, “the play’s
the thing,” as some defunct immortal once remarked.
Eastern Suburbs was booked to meet South Sydney,
and it was a generally expressed idea that it would
be “a great lark” if South downed the premier team.
Give it its due, South “did its darnedest,” but its
darnedest wasn't darned enough; and Eastern Sub-
urbs, sadly bedraggled and mud-stained, climbed out
pantingly with 10 points to South’s seven. New-
town, apparently, had been looking on the liquor
when it is yellow, instead of attending to training,
for, when it bumped Glebe, it fell flat. Glebe did
the steam-roller act, and finished up 23 points to nil.
Newtown citizens arc now wearing crape round
their hats. Balmain fell on the struggling Western
Suburbs, like the dingoes on the bunnies —25 to two.
Annandale put up a great scrap against the moun-
taineers from the crags of the tram-line at North
Sydney, and was defeated only by seven to three.
So Eastern Suburbs is still top dog in the competi-
tion with 18 points, Glebe has 16, Newtown and South
Sydney 12 each, and Balmain 10. Below that are
sundry clubs wallowing in the abyss of despair.
* * * *
In the Union division the struggle of the
day was that between University and Eastern Sub-
urbs, and, in soite of the evil conditions, about
3000 people looked on. University opened with
dribbling tactics, keeping the ball at the toe till
quite close to the enemy’s line, and then suddenly
whipping it out to the waiting backs. Eastern
Suburbs made valiant but vain efforts to let loose
passing charges—which, considering the state of the
soil and the fact that the ball was like a slow-
moving ham with butter on it, was folly. When it
Was too late the error was recognised and tactics
changed; but recognition came too late, and the
figures were 11 to three. Western Suburbs had a
woolly time with Balmain, and looked like sustain-
ing a defeat. But, somehow, Balmain lacked the
ability to take advantage of. its opportunities—
opportunities'made by haird, solid work; and Western
Suburbs, which was playing for a draw, suddenly
fluked a lucky score and won by six to three. Manly
made mincemeat of North Svdney by 11 points to
three, and South Sydney and St. George abandoned
their match, as their playing ground was under
water, and the ball had to be dived for. In the A
division of the competition. University tops the pole
with 21 points, closely followed by Glebe with 19,
and Eastern Suburbs with 17. In the B division
Western Suburbs leads with 20, and Newtown and
St. George have 16 and 12 respectively. #
In the Australian division, Paddington
S”stained its second defeat of the season at the clogs
of East Sydney. The disaster was probably due
to the absence’ of the four cracks, whose places bad
to be filled hurriedly by less experienced players.
East Sydnev got going well, and finally won by 51
points to 33. The only other match of the day was
a run-away victory of Y.M.C.A. over the Railway
team, the ’figures being 140 noints to 16. Newtown
forfeited to North Shore. Paddington and Svdney
are level in the competition with 46 points. Y.M.C.A.
and North Shore have 36 each, and East Sydney 32.
The rest are nowhere.
* * * *
In the Soccer world the ’bailers are lead-
ing the strenuous life. At Newcastle the Tasmanian
team went under by four goals to one. In the Gar-
diner Cup two more clubs were cut down, the victims
being Balmain B and Canterbury. Balmain was
beaten by Sydney with three to two, and Canterbury
went down to Cessnock bv three to nil. In the
Rawson Cup riot, Balmain beat Newtown by two to
one, and Glebe out.ed Granville with four to one.
The order of precedence stands: Balmain 16, Glebe
15, and Sydney 12 competition points. In the struggle
for the Association Cup, West Sydney, which shares
with Balmain an unbeaten record for the season,
smote Y.M.C.A. beneath the fifth rib by four goals
to one. Northern Suburbs smashed Newtown by four
to one, and Glebe downed the Police with three to
nil. So in oomoet’tion. Balmain and West Sydney
are pegging level with 19, while the other six clubs
have failed to get past single figures.
* * * *
Footballers had some sport on Sydney’s
sodden fields on Saturday. At Balmain one club
pushed the referee into the churned soup in the
early match. The referee is said to have taken the
mud-rolling as a joke. Had he not done so there
almost certainly would have been a riot. The rough
players also had a good time when Rugby Leaguer
A. Halloway broke the first-graders’ record by being
the first player to get marching orders for rough
play during the season. Two junior matches ended
in free fights, in one of which a Y.M.C.A. team
mixed the rage of the vulture and the love of the
turtle very excellently. It certainly turned the
other cheek, but as it did so it remarked. “Kick
it, and see the mess you’ll be in five minutes!”
The other crowd did all these things, and five
minutes later there was a mess indeed.
Football in Adelaide is robbed of its in-
terest this winter through the supremacy of Port
Adelaide, which has not been beaten at all. The
other clubs win among themselves in an in-and-out
sort of way. While “Ports” were away winning
some picnic’ games in Tasmania (S.A. does not allow
payment of players, and the clubs have to do some-
thing to get rid of their accumulating gate-money),
East Fremantle visited Adelaide to play the leading
team, and West Torrens second on the list, had to
do the honors. As it chanced, four of the visitors
got hurt in practice, and two more during the match,
so it was no disgrace for the Westralians to lose
with five goals seven behinds to seven goals 12 be-
hinds recorded by the home team.
* * * *
Maoriland’s “country week” of Rugby
football didn’t gather a halo for the gum diggers, pig
hunters and potato growers. The city folk trod them
unceremoniously in the slush. Canterbury had a
little trouble with the North Islanders, and just
climbed out with a win of 12 points to 11; and
then Taranaki blew down and sank the South
Island by 31 points to three. A fearful thing in a
country where the people take their football more
seriouslv than their prayers.
* * * *
Those weariful gasbags who are always
prating about unexpected reversals of form are hav-
ing plenty of subjects in Victorian hoofball. But a
few weeks ago the League premiers, the kickers of
Essendon, were reckoned almost invincible; to-day
they are scratching for points to get into the finals.
After being thoroughly thrashed by Carlton, and
moderately walloped by South, they went down to
Geelong on Saturday, assuring themselves of an easy
win—and before they got properly going the game
was gone. At half-time they were over eight goals
in arrears —14 points to Geelong’s 63 —and after that
it was just a question of getting out of the road. of
the conquering hoofs of the Seasiders, and avoiding
as much mud as they could. They ultimately
acquired 40 points to Geelong's 92, and, if they have
any explanation to oiler for the feat, now is the
time to hand it out. Geelong’s exceptionally clever
goal-kicking won’t account for it, by a jug-
ful. Carlton, by the laws of logic—if they have
anything to do with football —should have donkey-
licked Melbourne, but its amazing inability to kick
reasonably straight nearly lost it the game, five
points only differentiating the teams at the close —
Carlton, 42; Melb., 37. Collingwood, nursing its
outside chance of reaching the finals, went over to
Richmond and gracelessly piled up points to the
measure of 75 to Richmond’s 40. ’Roy, for a similar
reason, heaped up 86 to ’Varsity’s 50. One sweet
feature about the Students is that they never get
thrashed by a weak team one week and then capsize
a lot of experts the Saturday following. Their con-
sistency in getting trounced is a touching circum-
stance. South had the better of its argument with
the Saints, by 91 points to 60, the latter’s sloppy
kicking accounting for most of the disaster. Just
here this writer would urge Chief Sec. John Weary,
as soon as he awakes, to declare the common, female
hatpin a pest and a nuisance and a thistle under
the Act, so that it may be abolished and destroyed
out of the land utterly. The newest caper of the
ill-mannered Lizzie who wants to avert her team’s
impending defeat is to seize the ball when it gets
among the spectators, and drive her dagger into it,
thereby occasioning delay in getting anew ball, and
much bad language generally. Four balls were thus
treated on Saturday—‘two in one match- —and the
caper grows annoying.
* * * *
In the Ass. games another “surprising
reversal of form” was even more unaccountable. After
keeping among the leaders, and beating almost all
comers throughout the season, Brunswick went over
to Essendon, anticipating a hard game and a win;
but when the board, at half-time, showed ’Don 27
points, ’Wick three, they became persuaded that
something was wrong. The same something got a
good deal wronger as the game went on, and when
finally ’Don finished with 83 points to Brunswick’s
six, the Brickies went home to have a heart-searching
talk with themselves. Even the hopeless, dreary
Melb. Citizens made a braver show than that. Asa
result of this catastrophe, the Brickies must either
beat Brighton on Saturday week or pass out, and
Brighton is just now what the share speculator calls
“a sound proposition,” having handed Williamstown
a • considerable castigation on Saturday—ll 4 points
to 30. The other leading teams. North and ’Scray,
spanked Port and P’ran respectively—7o points to
30, and 73 to 48, being the measure of the pum-
melling—and ’Cote mled up the usual century—
-116 —against the Citizens’ 42. During the week
the Junior Ass. considered the trouble that occurred
during the Yarraville-’Scrav Jrs. match, when lan-
guage and stoush were freely dispensed. After put-
ting on a pained expression, the Ass. disqualified
one player till the beginning of ’l4, and “repri-
manded” four others. Also, ’Scray’s delegate was
requested to produce an unknown player, who
“squirted a mouthful of water in the umpire’s eye.”
What will happen to the delegate if he fails to
discover the unknown gentleman wasn’t stated.
Possibly the whole team may be “reprimanded.”
And its troubles!
Asa Test matcli was pending, captain
Gregory spelled some of his stars before tackling
Hampshire ; so Macartney and Hazlitt stood out with
McLaren and Webster. It was a comparatively weak
XI that burst into Hampshire. Gregory, as usual,
lost the toss, and the county, going in, knocked up
371, of which C. P. Mead accounted for 160 and
Jephson for 55. Carkeek kept the sundries down to
15. Kelleway got C. B. Fry for 24, and the rest of
the wickets were divided between Matthews, Minnett,
Whittv and Emery, none of whom averaged less than
30 per victim. Australia’s first innings, broken by
rain, totalled 197. Much was expected of the Glebe
pair, Bardsley and Kelleway; but though the former
reached 60, his mate was stopped for one. Minnett
made a frantic effort to knock the bowling silly, but
was run out for 58. One Kennedy rattled out six for
90. In the follow-on it was Bardsley who made 46
and Kelleway who got two. Backs to the wall,
skipper Syd came along with 85, and Jimmy Mat-
thews added 45 n.o. The same Kennedy refused to
ring off, and bagged five for 91. The total of 256
saved an innings’ defeat, and left the county with
only 50-odd to get. Whitty and Emery bowled the
first pair that came along for 20 each, and then’ Mead
(33 n. 0.) and Fry (12 n. 0.) hit off the runs, and
made the county a winner by eight wickets.
* * * *
Sussex afforded the last practice before
the Test. Taking no more risks, Macartney was
called in, and Mayne was dropped for McLaren. Also,
Gregory staggered creation by winning the toss. He
joyfully rushed a Wicket made specially for batting,
arid made the most of it. Kelleway 28, Jennings 48,
Macartney 142, Bardsley 43, Matthews seven (this
doesn’t look like a case of making the most of it),
Minnett 23, Gregory 35, Webster 10, McLaren 27,
Emery 16, Whitty n.o. Sims got three of the best,
but 123 runs were knocked off him. A. E. Relf got
four for 159, and Holloway bagged three for 52. In
the total of 398 the century and eight double figures
constituted a record for the tour. The county made
389, Lo-the-poor-Indian Ranji. hitting up 125 in
something like his own old style. Relf 72 and Fen-
der 69, were the only other large smites. Emery
captured three of the early wickets, and had 105 hit off
him. Matthews took two for 74, Whitty one for 84,
and McLaren polished off three tail-enders for 22.
With only nine to the good, Australia continued in run-
getting mood. Jennings fell for six, but Macartney’s
121 (his second century in the match), Matthews’s
93, Kelleway’s 63, Gregory’s 30, did a heap to make
it seven for 338, when Gregory declared. The county
had lost two for 101 when time ran out. The county
wanted 247 to win with eight wickets in hand. So
it ended in a draw.
London Times jumped on P. F. Warner’s
book on the tour of his last team in Australia, and
regrets that he did not take advantage of his enforced
position as an onlooker to write a quite impersonal
review of the proceedings. That he praised the cap-
taincy of Douglas is somewhat discounted by the fact
that, throughout the book, he carefully points out
how much better the team might have been handled
—presumably by Mr. Warner. Also, the Times is' of
opinion that “the good of crick avowed
object of the book —is not advanced in any way by
the devotion of a whole chanter 'to details of the
scrap between Hill and McAlister. Generally, it
sums up the work as a record of disappointment—dis-
appointment in which Mr. Warner will have the full
sympathy of every cricketer. *
Sydney Gregory added to his already in-
glorious career as a “tosser” by calling wrong in
the Test this week. This made 20 failures to call
correctly in 24 matches. Meanwhile, the N.S.W.
police authorities are determined that no practice
will be allowed in two-up schools, and a host of fine
young fellows who were skying the copper with a
view of captaining Australian Xl's some day were
grasped at Broken Hill on Sunday and another lot
at Sydney on Monday night. If McGowen is not
careful he will find himself accused by Wade as
the man who caused Gregory’s ghastly run of bad
calling. # *
N.S.W. Cricket Association opens the
coming season with a credit balance of £4OOO a big
jump, considering that, in 1910, treasurer Green
crave a personal guarantee to the Bank to keep the
Association afloat. The South African and English
visits bulged the coffers somewhat, and the Aswicia-
tion, after stowing some of the boodle away at fixed
deposit, proposes to use the balance in lifting the
game. #
The big winter meeting at Caulfield opens
next Saturday, when the Australian Hurdle Race
will be the richest item on the bill. At time of
writing there are punters prepared to take three to
one or less about AVimmera, and the favorite’s chance
of doing the trick is probably up to the odds. Among
the others there is nothing that, looks to be thrown
into the handicap. Some 17 of the horses that were
cherry ripe at Flemington three weeks ago may have
staled off, and the writer has only a mildly apolo-
getic fancy for Uxbridge, who is not too kindly
treated on his recent form, seeing that it was not
quite good enough to win. But if he has made any
improvement rather than disimprovement, since
Flemington meeting, Uxbridge should be busy at the
end of the long journey.
* * * *
“0.K.”: The story that the V.R.C. com-
mittee proposes to raise its prices and members’ fees,
in order to recover the loss on anew grandstand, that
collapsed whilst a-building, turns out to be a mere
invention of the enemy. The facts of the case, as
supplied by a member who seems to know the figures,
are pretty much as follows: The V.R.C., haying de-
cided months ago to spend £25,000 on improve-
ments to the show place, was suddenly confronted
with a request from the Board of Works to get the
property sewered, as though it were a private resi-
dential estate. The sewering will cost £12,000,
making a total expenditure of £37,000 to be pro-
vided for. Well, the proposed improvements are
essentially a business proposition, incidental to the
Cup Day 'question. Melbourne Cup seemed in danger
of losing some of its crowd, owing to complaints
about the awful want of seating accommodation for
the women on that one day of the year. The new grand-
stand is to give seats to another 6000, and it will
cost £15,000. On the Hill a lot of money is needed
for enlarging the present stand and building a
lounge, or haven of rest, for women under the new
wing. Bookmakers are to be cleared away from the
front of the Hill stand to an outlying part of the
ground, and all these improvements to the half-
crown show place justified an extra “tanner” to the
admission fee. Also, in consideration of the new
grand-stand, it seemed a fair thing to propose an
extra shilling for the “toffs,” who have hitherto paid
half a guinea. These charges being projected, the
committee reckoned that democracy would have cause
for protest if the members, likewise, were not asked
to increase their payment to the upkeep. Hence the
proposed extra £1 in the annual subscription. As
for the “collapse” of the grand-stand whilst a-build-
ing, it happened before the structure was far ad-
vanced, and proved the necessity for spending two
or three thousand pounds on a solid foundation.
The actual cost of pulling down what was already
erected will not be more than £350, which is the
whole of the loss the club has made. All things
considered, the members and the public have nothing
to grumble at. The £5 subscription dates back to
1864, when the Y.R.G. gave only five days’ racing
per annum for the money, and .Flemington racecourse
was a comparative wilderness. Now it is something
of a paradise and much of an Eden, and the racing
days are 16 in the year. Again, as compared with
members of the A. J.C., the members of the Y.R.C.
will not be victimised by a £6 fee, for it costs Is.
to enter the outer gates of the Randwick ground.
An A.J.O. member, who takes himself and two ladies
to each of the 16 days’ racing, pays 48s. in addition
to his £5 subscription. So the malcontents at next
Monday’s meeting of the V.R.G. can already consider
themselves blown out..
* * * *
We’ve changed color since David Gregory
took the first Australian XI to England in 1878.
During that visit, an English parson, meeting the
famous A. G. Steele in front of the pavilion, re-
marked : “Well, I hear you’re going to play against
the niggers to-morrow!” “I am,” said A. G., “and
let me introduce the demon nigger bowler, Mr.
Spofforth.”


HAVE YOU EVER FALLEN INTO
A SKILFUL BOXER’S TRAP?
i
If not, then you’ve been fortunate.
Because the man who knows how to use his head,
hands and feet to the best advantage has a huge ad
vantage over the inexperienced, crude, hot-headed
brawler.
It is .just like matching a trained racehorse against
an untrained carthorse.
\ ou’ve been lucky so far, but is it wise to always
remain an “easy mark” ?
Why not equip yourself for an emergency ?
I TEACH BOXING
WBY POST
ihirty-two lessons explain in a thoroughly simple and
efhcient way the most serviceable moves in Boxing,
i hirty-two different hits and stops will give you an
excellent variety of moves that will confuse your
opponent. He’ll be continually wondering what
you’re going to do next.
The ordinary man expects a straight left lead to the
]T^ITOT??T Use it; is the usual thin 8'- But it’s the
UJNUbUAL move that counts when you’re out for
keeps.”
Be advised in time. Make your first step towards
better defending yourself by getting particulars of
my course.
My Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in your Home,” gives
complete information, fees, etc. You ought to write
for a copy. You’ll find it well worth keeping.
Kindly send Bd. for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
38 Belmont Building's,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
your
_ own
Cigarette
if.r<
twice
as good.
CIGARETTE
PAPER
B\LST and VXi’RS.ST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. Li? 255? George S? Sydney
:: • ;
F»»«WV pwarfifi, Msiiy at any altitude
an 4 it unaf/cctei by nrying atmosphmctonitaioM.
■A OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
11l
MILLE.BS
me
jW
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
C/ _ Length, if! Inches.
°/ “ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to tJoHN Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
OXYGEN.
The commonwealth oxygen
COMPANY has pleasure in announcing
that it lias just completed the erection of
extensive Works at Alexandria, near Syd-
ney, for the production of Oxygen by the
Liquid Air Process. The whole of the plant
has been supplied by THE BRITISH
OXYGEN COMPANY, LTD., Westmin-
ster, London, which possesses all the British
and Colonial rights of the Linde Patents for
this process, and has established Oxygen
Works in the principal manufacturing cities
of the United Kingdom.
This plant is now producing in large quan-
tities Oxygen of unsurpassed purity, suitable
tor medical, laboratory and all industrial
purposes, at extremely moderate rates.
Complete outfits are stocked of thq most
up-to-date type for welding and cutting
steel and other metals by the Oxy-acetylene
Process.
Agents :
FYVIE ®. STEWART,
225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
362 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
jh
L I EUR.
* *
BENEDICTINE
ĥj
FREEDOM
FROM PILES.
The suffering trail is long for those who are afflicted with Piles
unless some determined endeavor be made for relief and cure.
there is only one positively safe and sure remedy for Piles, and
that is Murphy s Pile Pills. They are herbal in constitution, and
cleanse the system of all impurities, heal the affected parts, and so
remove the Piles by natural methods. Cases of 20, 30 and in
some instances, 40 years’ standing have been quickly and per-
manently cured by these Pills. H y
Murphy s Pile Pills are sold at 3/- per box by all leading
chemists and storekeepers, or may be ordered direct from the Soil
Str 0 e P e r t le Sy r dney DREW MURPHY ’ LTD ” »ept. B„ 109 Refent
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
INCORPORATED 1863.
HOLDS regular sales of Wool, Hides, Sheep'kins, Tallow,
Furred Skins and Sundries, and makes liberal cash
advances on consignments in store awaiting sale;
securing Highest Market Rates for ali Consignments entrusted
to it, and rendering returns promptly.
The Company makes Advances on Pastoral Properties and
Stock at current rates of interest, and acts generally as
Pastoral Banker and Agent.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Wheat Selling Charge - per cent.
Four Months’ Free Storage allowed in Sydney, if desired.
MEN OF TASTE
i
always find the greatest satisfaction in
wearing a pair of Rigney Shoes.
Not only do Rigney Shoes enjoy a popu-
larity for comfort, but they are recognised
by well-dressed men as the Shoes that can-
not be approached for style, quality and
elegance.
The Shoe here shown is very dressy, neat,
serviceable, comfortable and high-grade.
Price = = 25|-
Postage 9d. Extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalogue.
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney.
j*
r
v r
■
\ ' r vf'
/ •
Sr
. :
DUNLOP
m u
DUNLOP
HOTWATER
BAGS
It’s so Easy
to avoid sleepless
nights owing to cold
feet! Go to the
nearest Chemist or
Storekeeper and
purchase a Dunlop
Hot Water Bag,
which will give you
several winters’
comfort, at a cost
of a few shillings.
Mind you get a M Dunlop,” because
—being freshly made of the best
material —they do not crack or leak!
Send direct to us If you have any... .
difficulty in procuring: a “Dunlop.' Bag-.
MADE IN VARIOUS 9I2ES.
* • M
Another venerable London land-mark is
told off for execution. The Elephant and
Castle Theatre, South London, is under
offer to the authorities of the neighboring
Tabernacle for £100,000, and as the thou-
sands were rapidly rolling into the hat of
Pastor Dixon when the mail took up its bed
and quitted England, it is highly probable
that the required sum will soon be raised.
This theatre has fallen on evil days, and
has, of late, been only casually occupied by
touring companies. The adjoining hotel is
one of the oldest in London. It was known
to Shakspeare, who alludes to the Elephant
as a London locality in one of his plays.
It is alleged that he acted in its
yard, with people looking on from the
projecting galleries on each floor. In
the pre-railway period the Elephant
was the great coaching house to and
from the South of England. The
theatre has had many vicissitudes and
changes of fortune. It was at one time the
headquarters of the followers of Johanna
Southcote, the servant girl who proclaimed
herself to be the predestined mother of the
“New Messiah.” The event did not come off.
and the gorgeous silver cradle that was pre :
maturely manufactured found a resting place
in the museum of Madam Tussaud. After the
death of Johanna, one of her followers, John
Wroe, gathered up a number of her fol-
lowers into a new sect called the “Christian
Israelites.” Wroe made several missionary
tours in Australia, and died at Fitzroy,
Melbourne, in 1863. Melbourne House, at
Wakefield, Yorkshire, the headquarters of
the sect, was so christened by Wroe in com-
pliment to his Victorian adherents who pro-
vided most of the money.


“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
LmimSchebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner Housed
M. BOOSTER’S
BOGLE
hj
BRAND
“(Mom
CELEBRATED FOR ITS
CHAMPAGNE.
CONDITION and
BRILLIANCY.
mi ■
V
W
Everyone Says “How Simple!”
You have nothing to learn before you can use a
Gillette Safety Razor. You simply lather & shave
straight away. There is no stropping or honing-
No trouble of any sort.
Even if you have never used a razor before, you cannot
go wrong, because the curved guard brings the edge to
the correct shaving angle always. The Gillette Safety
Razor is used by over 4\ million men because it gives a
perfectly clean and close shave with the greatest comfort.
It is the one razor that is adjustable to
individual needs —enabling it to shave
a coarse beard just as smoothly and easily
as it does a finer growth.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
Write for
Illustrated
Booklet
“Hints on Shaving” and “Theßazor’s
Edge and How it Shaves,” sent post
free on application. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, LTD.,
40-44, Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Works : Leicester, England-
This illustration shows the
Standard Gillette Set, in velvet-
lined morocco case, with 12
blades (24 cutting edges). The
Combination Sets with Gillette
shaving soap and brush are ideal
for gifts and holiday use.
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere.
iiiiniiiiiiintiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiii
35i
*«»
ih
M*£
ppmpnriii
&Myjj
I mm
‘(Melb.”: The pleasaunce, once known as Dream-
land, at St. Hilda Beach, Melbourne, was opened by
Salambo, the fire-eater, a few years ago, as a kind of
rival to Hew York’s Coney Island ; but it turned out
badly. It has since been a waste, a howling void,
and a footless and tangled blank. Now the J. D.
Williams Co. has taken it, and proposes to run all
sorts of variety shows next summer. Also, the three
rival musical shows of St. Hilda —Follies, Jesters
and Pierrots —are polishing their armor and their
harness, and putting the song-and-dance battle in
array.
James Liebling, the ’cellist of the Cisneros concert
co., is a chess-player when he isn’t at work on .the
big fiddle. He ranks as one of the three boss ama-
teur chessarians of George Washington’s country, and
his first thought, when he landed in Sydney recently,
was to get an introduction to the local chess club.
Liebling dropped in there with an apologetic smile,
and had a giddy, silent time of checking and check-
mating. He wiped the board with every ruminating
brother who would take him on. In Melbourne he
repeated his indignities to local talent. When two
or three players in succession had succumbed to the
unsuspected stranger, they went forth and fetched
a champion to push pawns and bishops and suchlike
for the honor of the club. But Liebling overthrew
the champion. Noting his rather melancholy de-
meanor on the concert platform, one would guess
him to be a veritable bobby-dazzler at the saddest
game on earth. Nobody would slap Liebling on the
back and say “Mate!”
One corner of the site bought by the Common-
wealth as the official home of Australia in London
was occupied by the Olympic Theatre, and workmen
are now nosy digging up the foundations of this old
“shop” where 0. V. llrooke made his first metro-
politan appearance on January 3, 3 848. Brooke,
who had already served an apprenticeship of some
years in his native Ireland and the English “pro-
vinces,” scored such an instantaneous success as
Othello that his salary of £25 a week was promptly
doubled; and £5O a week was then regarded as a
princely remuneration for an actor. That season
established Brooke’s fame, and would have established
his fortune had he known how to take care of his
money ; but that was an art he never learnt.
“0.K.”; “Everywoman” is to be staged in London
for the first time, at Drury Lane, next September,
and local theatrical journalism is gravely asserting
that the late Mr. Browne’s “morality play” has
achieved considerable success in Australia as well
as America. Possibly the surface effects of the
melodrama would have been more impressive on
Sydney and Melbourne audiences if .they had opened
their hearts to the sweet tones and good acting of
Hilda Spong, without consideration of the fact that
she was physically unsuited to the name part, except
in the middle scenes. She was neither sufficiently
light and frolicsome at the beginning, nor thin and
careworn at the end. The Drury Lane management
has been trying to get Ethel Irving for “Every-
woman,” which is what the Combine no doubt would
have liked to arrange when that sinuous little artist
was “starring” in another co. Ethel Irving, by the
way, is to appear anon in a new play (from the
French), at George Alexander’s theatre. Meanwhile,
she is doing a comedietta “turn” at the London
Hippodrome, which is a comparatively easy way of
earning a few millions a week. After fulfilling the sub-
sequent engagement with Alexander, and collecting a
new stock of plays, she will start again in manage-
ment on her own. Ethel Irving had to wait a long
time for a big reputation, but, having made it, she
promises to be able to star for many years. Her
art is not confined to young parts. It is adaptable
to any age of woman who has suffered (Lady Fred-
erick was no chicken), and one can conceive her
making a big hit as a white-haired heroine.
“Melb”: Apropos the gallery packer, The Mel-
bourne Board of Health has just adopted a series
of regulations, for approval by the Chief Secretary,
who is the responsible man. They are based on
what has been done at Brennan’s Amphitheatre,
where even the sixpenny seat is numbered, so that,
if only the right quota of tickets are sold, there can-
not possibly be overcrowding. Then there are the luxur-
ious threepenny stalls at the J. D. Williams “shops,”
the Britannia and the Melba. There have been terrific
rushes outside those places, but never the least con-
fusion inside, and the packer is unheard of. Sauce
for the hoss is sauce for the mare also, and what
has been done at three places can be done at all.
George Coppin is one of the Australian mummers
who finds mention in the new vol. of the English
“Dictionary of National Biography.” It was a little
love affair in Dublin that brought Coppin to these
parts. “While playing at the Abbey-street theatre,
Dublin, he met a fascinating American actress, Mrs.
Watkin Burroughs, the wife of a provincial actor-
manager, with whom he eloped to Australia.”
(N.B. —Coppin bolted with Mrs. Burroughs, not
the actor-manager.) Old Melbourne playgoers were
aware, in a general sort of way, that the first “Mrs.
Coppin” was not legally entitled to that name, but
this statement in the “Die. of Nat. Bi.” is probably
the first appearance of the facts *i print within the
memories of most of us. The lovers landed in Syd-
ney on March 10, 1843.
Pinero was asked recently whether he had any
comparison to make between the production of “The
Amazons” at the Court (London) in 1893, and the re-
vival by Frohman at the Duke of York’s last month.
“I remember little or nothing,” he answered, “of
the original presentation. Had that production been
an event of last year only, I do not think I could
give you a reliable impression of it. Having written
a play and seen it through rehearsals, I usually for-
get all about it, and get on to my next job. To the
best of my recollection I have never been to a public
performance of any of my plays after their first-
night introduction.”
Soon you won't have to go even round the next
corner to see how Mr. Flynn looked after Mr. John-
son had had his eleventh say. In a Collins-street(Mel-
bourne) tea-room the other afternoon, the_ home
cinematograph” was on view—as handy a thing as
the gramophone—which threw lucid pictures on a
sheet the size of a table-cloth. Did you feel any
picture showman shiver?
For a time the deceased Canterbury (London- the
music-hall, not the Archbishop) specialised in
ballet dancing, and during this period the Prince ot
Wales, afterwards Edward VII., who had always a
weakness for shapely legs and the female form
divine, was a pretty regular patron. Sometimes he
brought other royalties with him, among them the
Duke of Teck and that gay old moral conflagration,
the King of the Belgians. Old Belgium was a good
hater ; he died in a sort of summer-house because he
had sold all the contents of the palace and given
away the money to his worst girls to prevent his
family getting anything, and he had either to die in
the summer-house or perish on the dining-room floor.
But he was also a good lover, and when the rest of
the royal party went home from the Canterbury, he
used to lurk behind with a bouquet, and whistle in
a minor key to girls with well-shaped extremities.
An elderly London merchant had occupied the same
stall at the Canterbury every Saturday for nearly 50
years, and his emotion on the closing night was, one
presumably sober reporter says, “pathetic to wit-
ness.” But the old boy may cheer up. He may yet
sit in a new, up-to-date, palatial Canterbury on the
old site. A wealthy syndicate is reported to have
made a handsome offer to the railway company which
now owns the show.
Melba’s gift of £lOOO towards a “Melba” Hall, at
Melbourne University Conservatoriupi, is equally
practical and handsome, and will go much further in
advancing musical education than her sundry dona-
tions to the fund of a Permanent Orchestra, which
can never be got going on the narrow party lines
laid down by its trustees. Professors may come and
go, but the University Conservatorium must go on
for ever with varying success, whereas the “Perma-
nent” Orchestra scheme appears to be pinned to the
identity of Marshall Hall. Properly managed and
popularised, the Conservatorium that Francis Ormond
endowed in the long ago should eventually become
rich enough to subsidise an orchestra of professionals,
who will work in harmony with student amateurs,
whilst appointing their own conductors and running
their concerts under union conditions. Melba’s £lOOO
carries with it an equal amount from the State Gov-
ernment, and ought to induce the local dilettanti to
turn their thin stream of musical interest into the
durable channel which leads to a permanent result.
“Aero”: Australia has just been witnessing a bio-
graph adumbration of the aerial Derby round London,
81 miles, starting from the Aerodrome, Hendon, in
the north-west, and circling right about to the same
place, first going southward, then turning east and
north. Seven started, and four got home. _ The win-
ner took about an hour and a half. Sopwith arrived
first, but was disqualified for going four miles inside
a post, otherwise a steeple. So the prize was awarded
to Hamel, who came second. He carried a passenger
(Miss Davies), who has thrice accompanied him on
his man-bird trips across the Channel. The race was
witnessed by enormous crowds. Sometimes they
helped to mark out the course to the fliers, but at
other times they obscured familiar roads. The
weather was not good. There were two rainstorms,
and such a fog blotted out the Thames that a com-
petitor, who descended to within 200 ft., could
hardly see it.
An English parson has written an historical-ecclesi-
astical play, called “Glastonbury,” which is per-
formed at matinees only by amateurs, who are sup-
posed to be professionally equipped for their parts.
Clergy characters are played by clergymen, legal
personages are represented by lawyers, and the mimic
mayor is a mayor in fact. The idea of engaging a
real alderman to impart municipal “color” to the
figure of a fictitious city father strikes one as being
purely parsonic. The reverend author would pro-
bably cast a rdhl postman for the dumb character
of a bloke who had to come along with a mail-bag
on his shoulder, and he would hire a reporter and
a donkey to represent Dogberry, because he wanted
to be written down an ass.
SHARSPEARE IN THE MAKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Wallace, who occupies the chair of Eng-
lish in Melb. University, says that Shakspeare “often
sacrificed his art most egregiously out of considera-
tion for the exigencies of the theatre. .. Many of the
peculiarities of his plays were obviously due to a
desire to fit a certain actor with a part.”
In fair Elvsian fields one day
Two souls did argument provoke;
( Dramatic specialists were they—
\ Bill Shakspeare and another bloke.
The other chap was blue of chin,
And dragged a histrionic toe.
■ Said he: “My troth, it is a sin,
How ill they treat me down below !
“It’s Shakspeare always, never Binks.
; Each act I had to oversee!
This generation little thinks
How much of Shakspeare’s only me.
: “I staged your ‘Hamlet,’ and ’twas I
Who planned and worked the ghostly cuss,
And forced you make Ophelia die,
And slaughter old Polonius.
“You know the play went flat as bricks,
Till Binks sent poor Ophelia mad,
To suit the few peculiar tricks
Of some small actor-boy he had.
“Act 5, Scene 1., Binks had to save.
The Pit’s applause was very scant
Till I threw Hamlet in the grave,
And made him rant, and rant, and rant.
, “Admit r it straight and, honest, Bill,
’Twas I touched up the final scene,
: .And engineered the record kill—
Laertes, Hamlet, King and Queen.
( “While Shakspeare’s name is high indeed
Posterity my merit blinks:
You only wrote the wretched screed—
The man who made the play was Binks.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


The Australian Bank of
Commerce Limited.
n The Annual and Fifth Half-yearly Meeting of Shareholders was held at thp Rankin
r- asf&sisnt as&T' 2ctil
FIFTH REPORT
Of the presented at the Half-yearly Ordinary General Meeting held at the
t Ranking House, Sydney, on Friday, the 2Gth July, 1912, at noon.
su b mi t the Accounts for the Half-year ended 30tli June, 1912 which have
been examined and certified to by the Auditors. ’
The Balance of Profit and Loss after making ample provision for all bad
and doubtful debts, deducting rebate on Current Bills and expenses of
Management, Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees, Interest on Fixed
Deposits, all ordinary Taxes, and the Graduated Land Tax, amounts
10 'ber I last S t 0 ° G a<Wed the balance of undivided profit from 31st Decem-
£sB,Bs2 7 11
1,372 9 5
making
which, after payment of Interest on Inscribed Deposits
£00.224 17 4
34,603 19 2
£25,620 18
leaves a balance of ..
which the Directors propose to apportion as follows:
o payment of a Dividend at the rate of 2i per cent, per annum on the
proportion of the Capital received at various dates during the Half-
year, which, calculated as from the respective dates will absorb.. 14,936
0 0
Leaving to be carried forward a balance of . . .. .. .. . . £10,684 IS 2
p„. m devolves upon this Meeting to elect two Directors in the places of Sir William
ciafl nd . Fl J u ] k Nelson Yarwood, who retire in accordance with the provisions
o Ciause 104 of the Articles of Association, both of whom are eligible for re-election and
have given the requisite notice that they are candidates. election ana
. terms of Clause 171 of the Articles of Association it devolves upon this Meeting
to elect two Authtors in the places of William Craig, F.C.P.A.. and George Malon Al anf
Wmfam'H Perrv'FCP f the la « er ! » and offers himself for re election!
of Mr Craig *-FY.A., has given notice that he is a candidate for election in place
W. P. MANNING,
Chairman.
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET (including London Office —by Cable).
30th JUNE, 1912.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital—•
Authorised
2,000,000 Shares
of £1 each ..2,000,000
Less Unissued
801,466 Shares at
£ 1 per share
s. d.
0 0
Subscribed
Less Amount
able by instal-
ments
Capital paid up . .
~ Inscribed De
posits
, Current Deposits,
Contingency Ac-
counts, and In-
terest held in
Reserve ..1,824,374 11 8
Fixed Deposits. . 630,912 18 7
Accrued Interest
on all Deposits
an d Rebate on
Current Bills . . 41,713 19 1
Notes in Circula-
tion .. . . 6,312 10 0
Bills in Circula-
tion and other
amounts payable 198,961 17 11
Balances due to
other Banks . . 48,564 1 5
•2,925,096 12 4
This sum of £2,750,829 18s. Bd.
to be a first charge on the whole
of the Bank’s assets.
Profit and Loss Account
Contingent Liabilities—Outstand-
Letters of Credit, etc., as
-2,750,829 18
per contra
25,620 18 2
701,547 9 2
151,679 3 0
£5,853,226 12 2
By Coin and Bullion
„ Cash at London
Bankers and at
short call i-n
London
~ Government Se-
curities—British
Consols. .
„ Australian Notes
~ Queensland Gov-
ernment Treas-
ury Notes
~ Notes of other
Banks. .
„ Balances Due by
other Banks
~ Bills Receivable
in London and
Remittances i n
transit..
ASSETS.
£ s.
570,582 5
20,967 9
78,500 0
241,186 0
195 0
1,335 0
99,751 10
145,305 3
d.
8
4
0
0
0
0
0
£
s. d.
~ Bills Discounted, Loans, Ad-
vances, all other Debts Due to
the Bank and other Assets
~ Provision in terms of Clause 163
of the Bank’s Articles of Asso-
ciation
~ Bank Premises .. . [ t ' ‘
1,157,822 8
4,158,486 14
15,000 0
370,238 6
5
9
0
0
£5,701,547 9 2
~ Liabilities of Customers on Let-
ters of Credit, etc., as per’eontra 151,679 3 o
£5,853,226 12 2
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
To Interest Inscribed Deposits
„ Dividend at the rate of 21
cent, per annum
<> Balance to carry forward
£ s. d.
34,603 19 2
14,936 0 0
10,684 18 2
£60,224 17 4
57 i yea > ” nt unclivic,etl from last half- S ’ **'
„ Profits ' for "the half-year 1,372 9 5
June*3o, 1912 58,852 7 11
£60,224 .17 4
” Balance carried forward . . . . £10,684 18 2
W. P. MANNING,
A. P. STEWART,
Chairman.
General Manager.
WILLIAM CRAIG, F.C P 4 \
G. MASON ALLARD, F.C.P.A., / Auditors.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
several items therein states! hj’srmmrm" te llkiklk/kfk/ 0 the’*’Gene’’ i l9 / 2 ’, and Feport that we fin(l tile
ot the respective Branches of the Bank collectively. “ General Ledger, and the Balance-Sheets
VVg ha\e counted the Cash and Gxaminpd v. / - v ij v n
the 30th June, 1912, and hereby certify that we have found 'thorn ® ank the Head Office in Sydney on
Vouchers, Accounts and Documents necessary for verifying the^a^nr 0 «1 Ct ‘e , We further certify that all
The P ash k V? 11ls ’ and other Securities held at the Branch Rnnt=' C ?" SI J? et have been submitted to us.
on the date of Balancing have been certified to as being correct hv lho" Ne Y ,f outh Wales and Queensland
the Balance-Sheet of the London Branch have been receded hv 1 docume nts, and the figures of
In our opinion the Balance-Sheet is a full and fair BnlanrS aif/ + g • ■
by the Articles of Association of The Australian Bank of the par , ticu I lar s required
as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the c !! t Limited, and properly drawn up so
Company. e 01 lne ° om Pany s affairs as shown by the Books of the
WILLIAM CRAIG, F.C P A )
G. MASON ALLARD, F.C.P.A., / Auditors.
Chairman °slkh- he ad ° Pti<>n ° f the Report and Balance-Sheet for the Half-year ended 30th June, the
pleasure in £ ne - last ’ 1 have much
A comparison of our Assets and Liabiliti P « Lien ewl " Wl<d ? pro S r€! ?s of the institution,
portant decreases in some items and increases in others The € h ent - ed to J°+}, sl i month s ago shows unim-
growth of our connection is muchmoreSatisfactory than mfght tb ,% Bank A S i 2 cre^ and the
but. the holding of liquid assets in connection with our liabilities fron i tbe fl Stires themselves,
The realisation of old securities taken oveVfrom The a,‘.tt? r"? p - ll e t 2J n ? et all requirements,
continued during the past Half-year, and considerabkTsalef bf'e^effent^ t ß f nk e Llmlt ° d has been
The Notes issued by the Bank beforethe,passing nf S F.®?, ef^ ecG;d at satisfactory prices,
with the exception of £6312, and in lieu thereof we hold Act are now adeemed
The profits on our operations for the past Half-vear show , N . otes amounting to £241,186.
£58,852/7/11, as against £46,872/10/7 for the prevfous llaTv£i r S improvement; the figures are
the rate of 2i per centum per annum we carry forward to nevt rrliJ’ dnd after payment of a dividend at
with the undMded ° f s&s?
tortSSt'eiv.’brekSi SSfuS ZuZtKl SSHTtCK) SeV " e d ™ , <' l,t
01 in ‘ e ”‘ » Fl " d !„„»„!, consequently
The Board desire to draw attention to the ample security thia a , .
which is a first charge on all the assets of the Bank/ and desires to thn«f o p‘ S f?1 "t nGW busl T ss -
who have assisted in the establishment of The Australian Bank of r n Z,»! those Proprietors and others
will continue their efforts towards advancing this Institution. meree Limited, and ask that they
They also desire to express their appreciation of the efforts of the staff who hv „„ i ~
service! S ° t 0 th<? bl,siness ° f the Bank ’ and hope for a ffinuance oTluch
Mr. C. H. Myles seconded the resolution, which was carried unanimously
The retiring Directors, Sir William P. Manning and Mr F IV , , , ,
Mr. George Mason Allard, F.C.P.A., and Mr. William II Perrv F r°P * Were re_el ected to the Board,
the ensuing year. ’ m ±erry ’ F -C.P.A., were elected Auditors for
A vote of thanks was accorded the Officers of the Bank for tholr , • ~
advice^ 6 ChairmaU the dividend is now payable at Head Office, and'alßranches'“ onSip? of
»i#assse*s
Wmm
I
W m A
m
•7"*-
*
!
K',: i
m
■M ■
- i?
I
414 r if! >
’
BREWED FROM
WAITED' BARIEV
-<o n'Cwfrjmxi
EOjWR BRIDGE R a '
;
mm
V
is
mm
mm
'mMmSM
m
m
m
£
mm
1 Nalt
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIBARFTTFS
Difficnlty Jn expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GHIMAULT * Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold, by all Chemists.
To Owners of
EDISON
"Gem” Phonographs
TO every purchaser of ten Special Amberol Records,
I which are only to be secured under the terms
of this offer, we will supply a “Gem” Amberol
Combination Attachment, free.
Ihe price of the Attachment in the usual way is
12/6, the ten Special Records, if they could be pur-
chased apart from this offer, would be 20/- ; you can
now secure both Attachment and Record from any
Edison dealer for 20/6 —so you see you actually
secure the Attachment at the nominal cost of 6d.
Call on the Edison dealer nearest you to-day, and
ask for the special folder, giving details of this offer ;
also lists of the Amberol Records, which cannot be
obtained in any other way; or write us direct for
a free copy.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale Only),
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Cobber Mouth Organs
CO&&JF/?
r—,
‘ *- - 1 * /J "~ I
No. 1. The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ... 37-
No. 2. The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 2/-
No. 3.—The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case -j/g
No. 4. The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
TMetal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/-
Sold by all Stores.
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A. IJ. Beal, Bast St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, I,aunceston ;
G. W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne ;
Optical & Photo Supplies Co.,
Hay St., Perth.
“A.L.” (Motor Car Acetylene Generator)
jh
srnG]j PP no ed dan-er S W * ’i and USed !- y him at the Indian Durbar. No
L.’ i e ’ n ,° . foullI ?"> 110 failure, no adjustments, no rubber mrts A svs-
s " lpI ? and ingenious lines. One charging of carbide can be used for
the “AL”GenemCs afhS?° mP ? ny scrapped all their old generators, and installed
nrn „i- '1 ’ + Yt e neratois after most severe tests against everv other make \nother
CaDtafn I Scott I &bn a L t ° ltS simplicity and reliability has been given bv
uaptam bcott, who has provided himself with a complete outfit of the “A T ”
Generators for the lighting- of his expedition to the South Pole.
lib. Size, £4 10s. 21b. Size, £6 15s.
Write for pamphlet, giving particulars and description.
Fasrfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
The PLUM RAZOR for a Very
Close Shave.
rV
Only the very finest silver steel is used in the Plum
f az ° r - ad( ? 1^ 10 . n > is perfectly tempered, and so
a n. d , maintains that delightfully keen cutting-
edge which is so desirable.
mvw ,™ c ' ertake t 0 k ee P every Plum Razor in good
order for two years, free of charge.
a nfm e t ify t i! e , P i" m Uiizor by name, and be sure of
absolute satisfaction. 1
PRICE 10/6, POST FREE.
Single Razor, Black Handle. 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap. 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should hod be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
The C. & A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
nij>-hb ; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
CRAIG <3. AITH.EN.
654 GEORGE STREET, .SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
55fi
ms
' jSs
(
The “Silent
Empire” for
Real Service.
810-MEN who have investigated the
claims of the Silent Empire Biograph
admit that for smooth-running and
simplicity of manipulation, clearness and
amazing steadiness of projection, this effi-
cient and moderately priced Cinematograph
machine stands without a rival.
It is fitted with the new Maltese Cross
attachment, and it is fireproof, neat and
compact in construction, besides giving bet-
ter results and longer service than machines
of higher prices.
Booklets Free.
J e r d a n’s
(Sole Agents for Australasia),
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency:
ALEXANDER GUNN & SONS,
—36 Little Collins St., Melbourne.


WEAKNESS
TO
STRENGTH
scons
EMULSION
The recuperative and|
strength-making powers of “
genuine Scott’s Emulsion
result, not in temporary
improvement, but in the
acquirement of renewed
health and lasting strength.
Thousands of Doctors,
in every part of the world,
recommend SCOTT’S.
Grateful mothers praise
it. Here is an example:
“My little daughter, Molly, wasted to
skin and bone, and was so weak that I
thought she would die I was advised
to give her Scott’s Emulsion, and now,
after a short course of same, she has
grown quite fat and strong, and looks
a bonny healthy child.”
Mrs. E. Newell, 62, Regent St.,
Sydney. 31.8.11.
Mrs. Newell got the genuine
Scott’s Emulsion—hence the good
results. Further reason why you
should insist on SCOTT’S Emul-
sion-should see the Scott trade
mark on the package. j
gh
Whenever in doubt, see
the SCOTT Trade Mark—
the sign of SCOTT purity
and genuineness. Printed on
every package for YOUR
guidance and protection.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MED CINE DEALERS.
DR. HARTMANN’S
ANTINEURASTHIN
AND-
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells
must be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in
the form of tonics or sedatives, which give temporary
relief, but cannot effect permanent improvement.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the ONLY known prepara-
tion containing an effective percentage of Lecithin
in an active organic state, completely assimilable, !
and with its valuable principles undiminished in any
way.
A sample of Antineurasthin, together with a valu-
able treatise on Nervous Complaints, will be dis-
patched by return of mail, on receipt of twopence
in stamps, by the Wholesale Distributor for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, No. 3
Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane; or
branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland. ~ _
SERIAL, No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. GODDARD,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No 810.
Allcock’s
PLASTERS
No matter whether the Pain
is in the Back or Side, Chest
or Limbs, you can always
rely on an Allcock's Plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold
by chemists in every part of
the civilized world.
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion, etc.
BrandretKs Pills
ENTIRELY VEGETABLE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING
Birkenhead, ENGLAND.
CO.,
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis Has been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
ekin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre*
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
LATEST VICTOR 5 /
GRAND PRIZE
B-tUisELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
have a guarantee if they will see
KORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very b eat that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
So’d by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers,
THE MAN WITH A MOUSTACHE
is the man with big prospects. He looks more manly, inspires con-
fidence. The business responsibility he enjoys, however, is in many
cases, entirely due to C APlLTjarine. c ..
It is the one perfect moustache grower. For over 30 years its
reputation as a grower of strong, vigorous hair has been unassaii-
PRICE 10 6 JAR.
Post Free
Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER—worn at night—makes
the moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEH,
654 a. George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
Makes you look manly
Before
<1
flflet
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
\'/A
LONDON AGENCY,
44 Street, SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM AND GOUT
MUCKADILLA HOTEL,
QUEENSLAND HOT SPRINGS.
Site of Famous Bore, adjoining Railway Station.
Western line (10 hours from Toowoomba),
Wire or Write Manager, Muckadilla, Q.
Tariff £3 3s
We have had 75 years’ experi-
ence with Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
That makes us have great confi-
dence in it for coughs, colds, bron-
chitis, weak throats, weak lungs.
.Sold in three sizes.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
|SF~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMIT ED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag-nts for Australia.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
h
LINSEED COMPOUND" *>;
Colds. Helieves Asthma ivnd difficult b S
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
.T.B. (Westport) : The oil you refer to
was probably that of the dugong, which has, in cer-
tain cases, done wonders for lung sufferers. Senior’s
Pharmacy, 250 George-street, Sydney 8.A.R.:
Thanks; but we have already had word of the
break perpetrated by the World’s News poesy ex-
pert from 1407 different sources. .. .M.M.: The only
writers barred in the best Australian books’ compe-
tition are present members of The Bulletin staff.
. ...G.F.F.: Beer-sarsaparilla joke is good. We
always said so, even in childhood’s beaming hour...
Constant Reader: The club hand wins.... Pa: Nicely-
worded effort, but it is one vast 1ibe1.... Dido: At
least three of the gags were extant when Virgil was
writing about y0u.... Bro: Decline to start an
“enormous appetite controversy.” in the nature of
tilings there can be no finality to such a venture
till some liar comes along and says he knew a man
who used to eat the earth at regular intervals....
0.8.P.L.: Article, by “Joseph Leggett, Attorney at
Law, San Francisco,” on “The Effects of Protection
in the U. 5.,” has turned up. Tell us —was that
young man ever outside his own place? he like
Henry George, who became converted to Freetrade
through never living in a Freetrade country ? George
only started to look at the horrors of Freetrade after
he had written “Progress and Poverty,” and by that
time he had gone too far to turn back. With him
Freetrade was the distant hill that looked green.
Remember, that the man who lives in the country
is likely to be the worst authority on the country
if he has never lived in any other country. Writer
once met on a steamer a young W.A. politician, who
was going abroad for the first time. He said that
W.A. was the worst-governed country in the world,
because a Premier had appointed himself Agent-
General. Said he knew W.A. was the worst-governed
country in the world, because he had lived there
and travelled all over the place. He came back from
his first travels in a hysterical condition, saying that
Westralia was about the best-governed country in the
world. .. . J.: The w.p.b. counted your poem out. .. .
Caleb: Dead cat item reverentially buried. .. .W. 11.:
Can’t remember whether that joke about the horse
and the cart and the fence and the shickered driver
was originally Scotch or Irish. Anyhow, it was
doing hard service on the Victorian gold fields when
Bendigo was young. .. .W. 8.5.: Financial article cost
us 4d. deficient postage. Better float a loan and
pay it off. Article doesn’t look like a permanent
and reproductive work.. . .Bullswool: Can’t grant the
hotel a literary license... .E. 1.: Your rhymes are
disastrous, but you are unusually candid. Three
verses:—
TO A LADY FROM A LADY.
’Tis rouge that gives you your roses
Rouge your lovely blush
The lilies are but powder
Dabbed on with a puff. (First disastrous rhyme.)
Your eyes of blue are not so true
As they appear to be
Your glorious wavy nut brown hair
Does not curl naturally.
For your round curves I’ve plainly sighed
And you figure but to have it
But now I know ’tis not your own
And you are simply padded. (Second disastrous
rhyme.)
. ...K.G.: Musical verse but a trifle thin.... Brae:
“Till mighty Tristram’s splint’ring blade his form
did rent in twain.” (Curtain.) E.B. (Q.) : Faint
echo of an American verse-writer. .. .M.W.: Sunny
harbor poem firmly rejected to accompaniment of
loud sobs by wild, wet wind J.S.: You dare to
write (from a city address) —“I often linger in the
shade and often pace the meadows.” Not this 1
weather! We imagine you armed with goloshes,
umbrella, overcoat and leggings, splashing about in
the meadows and looking for the magpie, who is in
recess and chirping huskily that the weather’s rotten.
Too early for spring carols.... Spill: Another spring
chirp ! Despite the July reports of gales, sheltering
coasters, floods, washaways and floating wreckage,
you persist in singing about sunbeams and bursting
buds. Haven’t seen a beam or a bud for weeks. Our
only trouble is that the fuel merchant has not been
able to fill our order for coal, all the colliers having
been gaoled up in the bar harbor of Newcastle by a
drunk and disorderly sea. Put another log on, and
devote the winter to planing down your stuff....
McN. (Cape York) : You are our most northern poet,
and the “up and arm” song should be yours. But
where’s your voice? Also, where’s your music?....
C.I-1.5.: One is clumsy and the other too slight....
W.Y.: We will not call it “Enough.” We will
christen it “Heaps!” and by that name condemn it.
Kismet: So you would rhyme “peace” with
“meet,” would you ? The Vizier has rung, howled
and stamped for the sworder. .. . J.N.S.: That doubt-
ful old jest is footsore. How have you managed to
escape it up to now? Are you a hermit?. .. . Wollun-
day: Seems a pity to waste all that splendid fury on
the debased wretch who drinks but never shouts....
J.E.N.: William failed to conquer us W. 0.:
(M.L.) : Passed out. .. . J.L.1.: Promising item, but
it needs some alterations and repairs. Have put it
in with the literary carpenter’s batch. . . .G.P.: Your
poem did not cheer us a bit. .. .W.J.W.: Some grace,
but a bit below print 1eve1.... Searchlight: Wail
from cowdom has a whiff of the milking-yard, but is
too wild and raw. Also, in the last verse it crashes
away into the scrub, and its intellectual footmarks !
are not discernible... .Soma: A good theme, but you j
hardly do it justice... .Z. 8.: Promising batch. Put
aside for a second reading P.A.S.: Can’t say
whether you will ever do better work ; but you will
have to do better before you are printed. You
should get your stuff typed, for you write a difficult
fist, and verse is heavily handicapped if the reader
has to stop and puzzle over words. Haven’t the space
to point out all your faults, but this sort of line
doesn’t improve a sonnet —-“Yet oft I dream tliout
hear our countless groans.” Did you ever start to
count groans? You might credit us with a couple
next time you are making up your accounts....
G.P.: The poem (it isn’t suitable, by the way) boils
down to this: A young man remarked proudly (in
song) that the world was made for him —also the
sun, moon, stars and soaring lark. Then he started
off without his umbrella to walk round and' inspect
his possessions. But the weather broke up and the
rain fell on him, so that he caught cold and 1 died.
Or perhaps he only went home again. The conclud-
ing line—“A rover he’d ceased to be”—is a sort of
poetical open verdict... .A.0.K.: Don’t know what
it means—don’t care!. ...M.: You guarantee the
lady to be a capable writer and qualified to be “one
of our editors.” You head your letter of guarantee
and assurance “18 inst., 1912.” You say you are
“regretful to hear,” and use such gems as “comun-
ate,” “noveletts,” “competant,” “poecy,” “vacency,”
“I has,” etc. You also speak of some publication
which you describe as “the family journey.” Eccen-
tricities of this sort appeared also in your first letter,
and made us doubt your assurance that your
friend was qualified to be an editor even on this
humble paper. Your statement that she had written
poems and stories with great success left us cold
and doubtful. Now we find that she writes a very
bad hand on both sides of the paper; that she doesn’t
spell well, that she punctuates not at all, and that
the “poem” is of the infant school variety. The
verdict is that you invented the lady (who writes
exactly like you), and that the joke is too elaborate
for words.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Frank McL.: To begin with, you should make your
pictures about 12 times the size, to allow for re-
duction J.E.N.: Even if it had taken 60 police-
men to remove Murphy, we would be wholly unre-
sponsive... .Waihi: If you are very young, and have
never been taught to draw, and have not practised
drawing much, you have some faint hopes of success.
But they are very faint, and, speaking as a friend,
we don’t know but that you hadn’t better make tree-
| falling, or politics, or what not your life’s work....


\\
x x
\
—1
\ \ \
)///!/W^//////^////OB
8.8
/////«w
8K
au
1
L
f##////
f !«//;
f #l/
ft®
in
S;
/si;
&a 2»
©^®
W
mm???
k]!lu
SOTTDI^
Ptfi *
1 1 hi
'$
“The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
Beale High-grade Pianos are made throughout by the most ex-
perienced and competent artisans. They contain every feature that
is best in the grea.t pianos of the world, together with patents of our
own, which make for better tone and durability.
What cari be made as well by machinery we make by machinery,
thus avoiding unnecessary expense; but we .nowhere sacrifice quality
to cheapness.
Their excellence of tone and elegance of design have only been
achieved by the utmost care being taken by us in the construction of
every detail.
A Special and noteworthy feature in onr High-grade Pianos is
their wonderful durability. As a result of all the care in their manu-
acture we have produced an instrument that will withstand the
most severe climatic influences.
Our pianos have proved themselves throughout the length and
breadth of Australasia, and we have received testimonials from the
various States of the Commonwealth, giving the enthusiastic
opinions of users of Beale High-grade Pianos.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we shall be pleased to send post free on demand.
BEALE <a CO. LTD
MAKERS OF
BEALE high-grade PIANOS
“The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
CARL V A D E R PIANOS.
Prices: £49. 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY I ERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Baying Direct from the Manufacturers.


YOU GET THE LOVELIEST JEWELLERY
A. SAUNDERS
15ct GOLE BROOCH, set Pearls and
Tourmaline or Peridot.
And YOU PAY THE LOWEST PRICES for it, too.
Why not give us a Trial Order and see ?
12/6
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
50/
et Gold Knife Peart Cluster and
BRACELET, with Safety Chain.
8/6
9ct Gold Two-Bar FLORAL
BROOCH, set Red or Green Stone
or Turquoise.
15/.
14ct Gold Filled MUFF CHAIN,
25/, 30/. 9ct Gold, £2/10/, £3.
9ct Gold, Set Pearls and Peridot,
Amethyst or Turquoise.
£7/10/.
ioct Gold, set Diamonds and Pink
Tourmalines and Peridot.
£3.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Diamonds and
Rubies, or Sapnhires.
40/.
40/
% ®?
%
vs,
40/-
Gent’s pure Silver, Open-face, Keyless
Kailway Lever, with bold Railway dial
and patent adjustable Time Spring,
Compensation Balance, non-magnetic Dust
and Water proof cases, £2; guaranteed
2 years’ free repairs.
DIAM 0 N D S,
Rubies, or Sap-
phires.
9ct Gold, set
Pearls and
thyst.
12/6
9cf Gold
PENDANT,
Amethyst or
paz.
SEAL
sc
To-
Oct Gold, Hand-
clasp RING, Isct
Gold, 40/.
9 t GOLD PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Amethyst.
23/.
Solid Gold
EAR RINGS,
set Pearls and
Turquoise drop.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
llubies.
17/6-
15ct Gold,
Set Pure
White
Pearls.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamond.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Open
face KEYLESS WATCH, full
Jewelled, dust and water
proof cases, timed and ad-
justed, 20/. Guaranteed,
one year’s free repairs.
£lO
£lO
loot Gold, set
Diamonds.
and Pink o
Green . Tour-
malines.
SEND TO-DAY
for a beautiful Jewel-
lery Catalog—it’s free
to everybody—and we
post any design in it
free, too.
15ct Gold, set
Fine Double-cut
Diamonds
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Ruby.
Oct Gold
set Pearls
and Garnet
or Peridot.
ISct Gold, set
pure Double-cut
Diamonds.
6
55/.
55/
9ct Gold
NECKLACE.
Set Pearls
and Ame-
thyst.
Oct Gold Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, strong
safety Chain attached.
£2-
Ladies’ 9et Gold Wristlet WATCH, set in dainty lea-
ther strans. in all the newest shades—an accurate,
relialle Timekeeper.
15/.
15ct Gold; 18ct
20/.
12/6-
9ct Gold MEDAL
loot Gold, 35/.
10/6
9et GOLD LINKS
*oct Gold, 25/.
3*5/-
9ct Gold Claw-
set RING, set
Garnet, ' methyst,
or Topaz.
Gold Mounted
CIGAR CUTTER.
*
35/.
Oct Gold, Two Diamond-Cut Amethysts and Pearl
Set SPRAY.
loot Gold, set Fine Pure Double-
cut Diamonds, Pearls, and Rubies, or
Sapphires.
Solid Silver DOUBLE WATCH
ALBERT, 7/6, 8/6, 10/, 12/6,
14k. Gold Filled, 17/6, 20/.
9ct Gold, £2/15/, £3.
25/.
9ct Gold Three-bar BROOCH, Ame-
thyst centre.
55/.
15ct Gold Bird and Spray
BROOCH, set pure white Pearls.
Gold BROOCH, set
double-cut Diamonds.
pure
50/
50/.
II
1
m
mm, 1 ,
m,
mi
<»!!! I
mm
i
50/-
Gent’s 1’ tent, 10 years’ guaranteed,
Gold Cased, Hunting, Keyless Waltham
WATCH, full-jewelled, Compens tion
Balance, 50/; guaranteed 2 years’ free
repairs.
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER .
GEORGE ST.
Opp. RAILWAY STN.
SYDNEY


Why Suffer from Sore Throat?
You need not do so for one hour longer than you
choose, for Science has discovered a rapid cure for
Sore Throat and its allied conditions, like Tonsillitis.
This is Wulfing’s Formamint.
“ I have never had Sore Throat myself since I began
to use Formamint, although I suffered periodically before,”
writes a physician in The Practitioner , one
of thousands of doctors who not only prescribe
Formamint to cure their patients’ Sore Throats, but
also habitually use it themselves for that purpose.
Sore Throat and those infectious diseases of
which it is a symptom, are due to germs which find
an ideal breeding-place in the throat, and, under
certain conditions, multiply with terrible rapidity,
infecting the body with their poison.
Danger of Diphtheria.
Formamint destroys these germs so
rapidly that when a physician mixed a little
Formamint with water and added it to the
germs taken from the throat of a patient
dangerously ill with Diphtheria they were
all killed within ten minutes.
Formamint should always be borne in
mind, not only as a cure, but also as a
p-eventive, when infectious diseases are
prevalent. By killing the germs causing
them, it prevents such diseases as Tonsil-
litis, Mumps, Whooping Cough, Measles,
Scarlet Fever, Consumption and Diphtheria.
For this reason, doctors always use
Formamint to safeguard themselves when
attending infectious diseases.
HI
. %
I
PROMINENT USERS OF
FORMAMINT:
The Rt. Hon. Arthur J. Balfour, MP.
Lord Kingsale.
Lord Glantawe.
Sir Clifford Cory, M.P.
Sir George Alexander.
Mr. Ben Davies.
Madame Kirkby Lunn.
The Rt. Hon. Sir John Gorst.
Madame Adelina Patti
(Baroness Cederstrom).
Formamint’s marvellous power of curing and
preventing throat diseases is vividly shown by the
following abstract of a case recently published in
The General Practitioner :
Two children with Diphtheria were taken from
their home to a hospital, where one of them died.
The mother and another child who had occupied
the same room with the patients complained of
Sore Throat. They were in obvious danger of
Diphtheria. Formamint Tablets were given to
them and the other people in the hou.se, and not
one got ill.
Evidence of this kind might be multiplied
almost indefinitely to prove the wonderful power
Formamint has of curing patients of dangerous and
infectious throat diseases and preventing other
people catching them.
A Warning to the Public.
Stimulated by the success of Wulfing’s
Formamint, many preparations claiming to
be as good are being offered to the public.
This claim is false. Wulfing’s Forma-
mint marks the discovery of a new chemical
compound, which is manufactured by a
patented process and can only be produced
by the firm of Messrs. A. Wulfing & Co.
To obtain the certainty of cure of all
forms of Sore Throat and immunity against
germ diseases, insist on having Wulfing’s
Formamint and take no substitute for it.^
It can be obtained of all Chemists, in
bottles of fifty tablets. 'Write for free sample
to-day to A. Wulfing & Co., 17 Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., mentioning “The Bulletin/'
and enclosing two penny stamps towards postage.
FORMAMINT : The Germ-killing Throat-tablet.
{NREfVIE LA FRANCE.
french liquid cosmetic.
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving Tone and
"Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain,
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale : DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY. Melbourne.
Wm
jh
HAVE
ATMOSUTE
LIGHT.
It makes the bright-
est, safest, cleanest
and most trustworthy
air-gas lighting known.
The machine is auto-
matic, easy to install,
costs almost nothing
to operate. Gives you
better light than city
people enjoy.
Write for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
L»cm.l Starts and Chemists sell it.
If by F.C. CALVERT & Co., M anchestbr, Emo.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6(1.
LEARN
AT HOME
ArS'l KN’S Churl of Progressive Lessons enables anyone to
acquire a Good Business Style of Writing in One Month.
Failure is practically impossible. No teacher required This
corvright method makes the most cramped writer a graceful
nenman. Price Half-a-Crown, including postage. A handy
book entitled "The Art of Letter Writing” given with the
chart! THE UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited.
AT OTICE is hereby given that an EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of
Broken Hill Proprietary Company, Limited, will be held at the registered office of
the Companv, Equitable Building, 320 Collins Street, Melbourne, on FRIDAY the
27th day of SEPTEMBER, 1912, at 3 o’clock in the afternoon, for the purpose of con-
sidering, and, if thought fit, passing the subjoined resolutions as special resolutions.
And notice is hereby also given that a further Extraordinary General Meeting of
the Company will be held at the said registered office of the Company on MONDAY, the
14-th day of OCTOBER,. 1912, at 3 o’clock in the afternoon, when a report will be pre-
sented of the proceedings at the first above-mentioned meeting, to be held on the 27th
day of September, 1912, and the subjoined resolutions will, if passed by the requisite
majority at such first above-mentioned meeting, be submitted at such further meeting
for confirmation as special resolutions.
RESOLUTIONS ABOVE REFERRED TO.
1 That the provisions of the Company’s memorandum of association with respect to
’ the Company’s objects be altered by adding after paragraph “F” in clause 3 of
such memorandum a further paragraph in the words following, that is to say :
“F.F.” “The carrying on in all or any of their respective branches all or any
of the trades or businesses of iron or steel masters, manufacturers, smelters,
or winners or of producers of lead, zinc or other metals, and the manufacturing
or production in connection therewith of any merchantable articles, commodities or
products.” , . ~ .
2. That the capital of the Company be increased by the creation _ of 540,UUU new
shares of Bs. each. Such new shares shall not be issued otherwise than as fully
paid up to Bs. Such shares shall in all respects rank equally with the existing
960,000 fully-paid shares of Bs. each. v ,
3. That, notwithstanding anything contained in article No. 34 or any other ot the
Company’s articles, the directors be and hereby are authorised to allot and issue as
fully paid-up such number of the said new shares to such holders of debentures
hereafter to be issued by the directors, and in exchange for their deben-
tures at such price (not being under par), and generally upon and in accord-
ance with such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the directors on the issue
of the said debentures, or may seem fit to the directors, and that any ot the said
new shares not so allotted or issued may be disposed of by the directors in such
manner and at such times and on such terms as the directors may think most
beneficial to the interests of the Company. ......
Should the above-mentioned resolutions not be passed by the requisite majority at the
meeting to be held on the 27th day of September, 1912, due notice thereof will be
given to the shareholders that the meeting on the 14th day of October, 1912, ot which
notice is now given, will not be held. By <-
Dated this 17th day of July, 1912. F. M. DICKENSON, Secretary.
Dear Sir or Madam, — (CIRCULAR TO SHAREHOLDERS.)
As you are aware, the Company holds from the Government of South Australia cer
tain mineral leases over a large and rich iron ore deposit known as the Iron Knob, ana
comprising about 340 acres. Up to the present the ore has only been used as a flux—-
a necessary adjunct to the Company’s operations at Port Pirie in connection with lead
smelting.
Your directors are now of opinion that an opportune time has arrived tor an exten-
sion of the Company’s business, and the utilisation of these deposits to the best advan-
tage in other directions, by the manufacture of iron and steel, etc., and the general man-
ager (Mr. Delprat) was, therefore, sent to Europe and America in order to inquire
fully into the whole proposition. As a result, the services of an expert of high standing
(Mr. David Baker, of Philadelphia, U.S.A.) were secured, and that gentleman has visited
Australia, and gone fully into the whole question. His report, confirmed by the general
manager, is most favorable as to the results obtainable by the Company embarking upon
the industry. . ' . . , ,
Consequently the directors desire to obtain the necessary consent ot shareholders
to the proposed alterations in the memorandum and articles of association, as set out
in the enclosed notice of meetings. . . ...
This will enable the directors to make financial arrangements for obtaining addi-
tional capital on terms most beneficial for shareholders, -a_nd, in connection with any
scheme decided upon shareholders will be given priority in Participation.
By order of the Board. F. M. DICKENSON, Secretary.
320 Collins Street, Melbourne, July 17, 1912. ‘
Complete WKITINC OUTFIT
Inkstand, Pen and Pencil Case, Pencil and
for making Three Bottles of Fine Ink, and a Lollof
Very Remarkable Pens, including The Braham .Fountain flren
The Shading Double-Stroke Pen, The Top-
Feed Reservoir Pen, The Colorado Inde-
structible Pen and f a Dozen others; Also a
Fountaipett? Ivorqid Penholder, that writes
250 words with one dip. The Lot for onl;
Three Shillings, including carriage. 1
The Pens alone are worth all the money
The Union Co., 299 Eiizabctn Street, Melbourne.
ĥĝ
nny one can solder with
T'INOL
THE NEW
PASTE SOLDER
ĥ
NO ACID. NO ROSIN. NO TROUBLE. NO FAILURE.
As easy as sticking: a postape stamp. Just put it on the spot
and heat it. Mends everything well and neatly. No skill
needed. Posted anywhere for One Shilling per Can. also Lamp
as shonfn, handy but not indispensaole for Half a-CVown.
THE UNION CO., 299 ELIZABETH BTRRBT, MELBOURNE.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 17th July, 1912.
TENDERS FOR GENERAL REPAIRS,
&c., AT VICTORIA BARRACKS,
PADDINGTON.
TENDERS will be received until noon
on Tuesday, the 6th August, 1912,
for general repairs and minor improvements
at the VICTORIA BARRACKS, PAD-
DINGTON. , -
Specifications may be seen at the Othce of
tlie Works Director for New South Wales,
Customs House (4th floor), Sydney, to
whom tenders endorsed as above should be
addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 19th July, 1912.
TENDERS FOR ERECTION OF
FENCING AT PENNANT HILLS
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH STATION.
TENDERS will be received until noon on
TUESDAY, the 6th AUGUST, 1912,
for the erection of Fencing and Gates at the
PENNANT HILLS WIRELESS TELE-
GRAPH STATION. CARLINGFORD.
Specification and plan may be seen at the
Office of the Works Director for New South
Wales, Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney,
to whom tenders endorsed as above should be
addressed. , , ~
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. kin q O’MALLEY, .
Minister of State for Home Attairs.
AUSTRALIAN CHILDHOOD
PORTRAITS.
SECOND
SERIES.
Ur
710 for every photo used.
THE United Commercial Travellers’ Assbciation of
Australasia, proprietors of the National Annual,
Australia To-day, encouraged by the success of
their last year’s competition, when HUN-
DREDS of photos, were entered from every State in
the Commonwealth, wish to include in their coming
Christmas issue at least 30 of the most attractive
portraits of Australian children (boys and girls).
They want them from every STATE in the Com-
monwealth, and will pay 7s. 6d. for every photo,
used, while all others will be promptly returned, post
paid. Ages of children to be from youngest baby-
hood up to 15 years, and PHOIO. MUST HA\E
BEEN TAKEN DURING LAST TWELVE MONTHis.
Last year’s entrants may compete, but the photo, now
entered must have been taken during: the last_l2
months. The help of ALL AUSTRALIAN PARENTS
is cordially solicited to make these pages of Aus-
tralian child-life WORTHY OF AUSTRALIA. T Nn
will be circulated ALL OVER IHE WORLD. No
objection to receiving more than one photo, from
same family. Photos, must be accompanied by name
and address of child, and name and address of
sender, and must reach the EDITOR of Australia
To-day, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, by September
25. 1912.


ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-EIGHTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT of
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting, held at the Head Banking House, George
Street, Sydney, on Friday, July 19, 1912.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-sheet, showing the Liabilities and Assets of the
Bank on June 30, 1912, and present the following Report;—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued
interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying Note and other taxes, and providing for bad
and doubtful debts, as well as granting to the Officers a special bonus on their salaries, amounts to:
£169,539 10 5
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:—
To Payment of a Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum .. .. \. .. .. .. ..£75,000 0 0
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . 40,000 0 0
„ Balance being undivided Profit .. .. .. .. .. .. 54,539 10 5
£169,539 10 5
At an Extraordinary General Meeting, held on the 23rd February, and confirmed at another Extra-
ordinary General Meeting on the 15th March last, it was decided to increase the capital of the Bank by
the creation of 20,000 new shares, to be allotted to the Shareholders at par.
This meeting is called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement, in terms of the Articles
of Association, of Norman Shelley, Esq., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the requisite notice
that he is a candidate for the office. It also rests with the meeting to appoint Auditors for the ensuing
year.
During the Half-year branches have been established at Oberon and Stockinbingal in this State, while
the Branches at Federal and Nymagee have been closed.
The Dividend is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(INCLUDING LONDON BItANCII TO JUNE 30, BY CABLE.)
Dr.
Cr.
£4,968,893 15 0
To Capital Paid-
up . . 1,718,893 15 0
„ Reserve Fund 1,500,000 0 0
—— 3,218,893 15 0
„ Notes in circulation . . . . 48,894 0 0
„ Bills in circulation . . . . 922,848 8 10
~ Deposits and other liabilities. . 20,823,525 8 10
~ Profit and Loss Account .. 169,539 10 5
£25,183,701 3 1
£ s.
By Coin and bul-
lion in hand 3,756,740 0
~ Cash at Bankers 135,585 8
~ Australian
Commonwealth
Notes (Legal
Tender) . . 548,056 0
~ Money at short
call in London 1,068,743 15
„ British Consols
and Govern-
ment and
Municipal Se-
curities . . 2,951,225 0
„ Bills receiv-
able in Lon-
don and re-
mittances i n
transit . . 1,784,212 11
~ Notes and bills
of other Banks 23,531 18
d. £
1
8
0
0
0
5
5
s. d.
10,268,094 13 7
~ Bills discounted, and all debts
due to the Bank . . . . 14,378,428 9 6
„ Bank premises, furniture, etc. 537,178 0 0
£25,183,701 3 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
s. d.
£
To Dividend Account for payment of
a Dividend for past half-year at
the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum .. .. .. . . 75,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund . . . . . . 40,000 0 0
„ Balance of undivided profit car-
ried to next half-year .. .. 54,539 10 5
£169,539 10 5
£
s. d.
By amount undivided from last half-
year . . . . 45,556 15 4
~ Profit for half-year ending June
30, 1912 123,982 15 1
£169,539 10 5
RESERVE FUND.
1912 —June 30 . .
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account ..
..£1,500,000 0 0
40,000 0 0
£1,540,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
W. R. SAYERS, Accountant.
Officers of
Sydney, July 12, 1912.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin in the
Head Office of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of
the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance-sheet.
F. W. HIXSON, l . ...
W. L. DOCKER, i Auditors.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously:—-
“That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated
among the Proprietors.”
“That Norman Shelley, Esq., be re-elected a Director of the Bank.”
“That W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq., be appointed Auditors for the ensuing vear.’
“That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Ofl
the Bank for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
. . T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Mr. G. J. Cohen, said: —
In accordance with our usual custom, I will briefly review the figures of the Balance-sheet and com-
pare them with those of the corresponding period of last year.
It is satisfactory to see that out of the quarter of a 'million payable in four instalments, spread over
12 months, in respect of the increase of Capital sanctioned in March last, there has been received the sum
of £218,393, many of our Shareholders having availed themselves of the option to pay up their instal-
ments in full on 29th ultimo.
The Reserve Fund has been increased from £.1,420,000 to £1,500,000, and provision has been
made to set aside a sum of £40,000 Out of this Half-year’s profits to further augment it, making with
the undivided balance, a total of £1,594,000.,
Notes of this Bank, to the amount of £26B,ooo,have been withdrawn from Circulation during the
year, and in this connection I may add that our Note Circulation, which stood at £675,000 18 months
ago, now stands at £48,000, showing that we have already *<aid £627,000 of our Notes.’
Bills in Circulation are less by £130,000. Deposits’ and Other Liabilities show an increase of
£733,000, and there is an improvement of £14,000 in our Profits.
The result of this is that the total figures have expanded about £646,000, compared with those of
12 months ago.
On the Assets side, the items —Coin, Cash at Bankers, and Commonwealth (legal Tender) Note? show
a diminution of £1,280,000, and Bills Receivable in London, and Notes and Bills of oth r Banks
respectively, £70,000 and £82,000, while Money at Short Call in London has been increased by £5B 000
and a further sum of £llO,OOO has been invested in Government Stocks.
Our Liquid Assets you will notice amount to £10,268)000, about 47 per cent, of the Bank’s Liabili-
ties to the public.
Bills Discounted and All Debts due to the Bank show the large increase of £1,892 000 and in this
respect I may say that during the period under review, and especially during the last’six’ months the
demand for money has been considerable.
Bank Premises Account show an increase of £25,000. We have expended a large sum in the pur-
chase of several sites in the City and Country, and are’ building thereon. 1
In common with other Banks, we have had to raise our rates for Fixed Deposits owing to the
State Government paying 4 per cent, at the Treasury for borrowed money. In consequence of this action
of the State Government, and of the contraction of our lending power brought about, as indicated in mv
remarks at a former Meeting by the withdrawal bv the Commonwealth Government of our right to issue
notes, which necessitated the redemption of our Notes in Circulation, and payment in Sovereigns to the
Federal Treasury for Commonwealth Notes for till money, we have with much reluctance been compelled
to increase the rates charged to our borrowing Customers. I say with reluctance, because our policy has
always been to make the charges to producers as light as possible for the welfare of the country at large
I would like to call your attention to the fact that we have, as you will see by reading the second
Paragraph in the Report, granted a special Bonus to the Staff, which is additional to the usual amount
„ On, the 7 ,th inst. our General Manager (Mr. T. A. Dibbs) completed his sixty-fifth year of service in
the Bank, and for 4o years he has held his present position.
by Mr the lot ° f feW 111611 t 0 give SUCh si " nal and lengthened service as that rendered to the Bank
We derive the benefit of his ripe and varied experience, and congratulate him heartily upon his
sustained vitality and energy, and trust that he may be spared many years to the community in his useful
gh
N THE WORKSHOPS
of the wqrld, and wherever the writtei ,»ord
, is necessary and recorded, the ONOTO PEN
" is indispensible. It is always ready to write,
fills itself in a flash from any ink supply—and cannot leak.
Ask your Stationer to show you the ONOTO self-
filling safety Pen. Made in Britain by British labour.
Onoto
Self-Filling • *
Safety Fountain Jt wll
Of all stationers, jewellers, etc. Price 1 2/- and upwards.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos.
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 339, Bunhill Row, E.C., or the
Australasian Representatives, Baker & York
Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.— For those who require a larger pen with * very flexible nth
a special model—the new 0-, has been put on the market. It is exceptional
value lor the money. Try this new Gat your stationers.
Also ask him for Onoto Ink—the best foi fountain and other pens.
gh
MODEL EE
5-Passeng’er Touring' Car-110-inch Wheelbase.
R-C-H “Twenty-Five”
Touring Car and Roadster Models
ħ
Fully Equipped, 5 pass., 1 10-in. wheel base,
with Hood, Wind Screen, Gas Lamps and
Generator Long Stroke Motor, Three
Speeds, Enclosed Valves, Bosch Magneto.
Specifications and equipment are the same in Touring Car and Road-
ster Models, except that Roadster wheelbase is 86 inches.
2-Passenger, £230; 5-Passenger, £285.
A careful reading of equipment and construction details will impress upon
you its exceptional value at this price.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO. LTD.,
Lyric Theatre Buildings, SYDNEY. 186 Exhibition Street, MELBOURNE.
The success of the R-C-H in the export field has been as immediate as in the United States.
We are making shipments almost daily to the following countries: —
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, British Guiana, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Great Britain,'
Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Philippine Islands, Porto Rico, Russia, South Africa,
Sweden.
Most of Australian territory has been placed, but there is still some very desirable
territory open in New South Wales and Victoria. We are closing same as rapidly as possible,'
and invite correspondence from responsible persons along these lines.
GENERAL R-C-H SPECIFICATIONS.
MOTOR —Four cylinders, cast en bloc, 3Jin. bore, sin. stroke, two bearing crankshaft. Timing
gears and valves enclosed. Three-point suspension. DRIVE—LEFT SIDE OR RIGHT SIDE, as
rules of the road may reo.uire. Irreversible worm gear, 16in. steering wheel. CONTROL —Centre
lever, operated through H plate, integral with universal joint housing immediately below.
SPRINGS —Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full elliptic and mounted on swivel seats. FRAME —
Pressed steel channel. AXLES—Front, I-beam, drop-forged; rear, semi-floating type. BODY—
English type, extra wide seats. Full equipment quoted above.
I Householders in Melbourne are horribly
j suspicious of their Gas Co.’s burst of gener-
osity in granting a concession of fivepence
on the old five-shilling rate. They are look-
ing the gift horse in the mouth, and wonder-
ing whether the animal is about to cut a
new tooth. For no apparent reason —not an
apparently innocent one, anyway—the co. is
removing everybody’s old gas-meters and fix-
ing new machines in their stead. A rumor
circulates in South Yarra to the effect that a
thrifty spinster sat up for hours watching
the new meter “clock” by candle light, and
saw the hand stealthily moving after the gas
had been turned off. But all rumors of this
sort are treated with disdain by the gasman
who calls for the account. “I’ve never met a
meter that worked miracles in favor of the
company,” says the democratic rate collector ;
“but I’ve known a lot that didn’t work at
all. The trouble is to keep them from going
to sleep in business hours.”
the last night of Oscar Wilde’s “A
Woman of No Importance,” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, a wild young man, who was sitting
in the dress circle with a girl, began to ex-
postulate in a whisper about the play. “It’s
immoral, that’s what it is!” he chattered.
Indignant hisses from those about them
served to fan his indignation into flame, and
he commenced a sort of impromptu sermon.
Ushers gathered swiftly, and a fierce discus-
sion was ended by the objector and his
blushing companion stumbling towards the
door. “She’ll not hear such talk!” was the
last defiant remark made to a giggling
house. It would be interesting to know how
the indignant saint came to attend a play
with such a signboard title.
A stylish flat refuge of Melb. squattocracy,
which has been abandoning its Maryannless
Toorak palaces, was shaken to its front mat
during Grand National week by a sort of
civil war. One of the wealthiest inhabitants
had made ready for a fearfully select dance,
for which she held a full hand of acceptances
from the Most Expensive Folk. Quite inad-
vertently the invitation of a young grass
widow flatting on the premises had been
overlooked —or perhaps the usual postal
muddle was responsible for its non-arrival.
However, the lady took offence and began a
crusade against dances in flats everywhere,
and the dance overhead in particular. The
two parties to the disagreement started a
serial argument by post and telephone, and
at last it reached the stage when the dance-
giver cried sarcastically: “Shall I insert a
paragraph in the morning papers—‘Regret
is expressed that Mrs. Upstairs’ dance is off.
It annoys Mrs. Downstairs and cannot take
place’?” The objector (call her Mrs.
Turkey) then threatened to barricade her
part of the Dardanelles staircase, or sow it
with rats and spiders. Mrs. Dancegiver
(hereinafter known as Mrs. Italy) retorted
oyer the wire that her guests would willingly
climb the backstairs to reach any function
she cared to give. But the war continued,
and finally Mrs. Italy agreed to pay an in-
demnity—that is to say, she agreed to put
Mrs. Turkey up at one of the best hotels for
the night. Mrs. Turkey accepted, and
motored off to the selected tavern, where she
dined a cosy party at Mrs. Italy’s expense.
And now Mrs. Turkey is proudly exhibiting
the Tripolitan bill paid by Mrs. Italy, and
generally regarding it as a trophy of war.
Mrs. Italy, however, points out that she held
her dance. So the war was won by both
sides, nobody was defeated, and a tall pub
has made a little extra profit.
N. S. Wales is not the only place with a
Speakership problem. According to the
Vienna correspondent of London Daily
Chronicle :—-
The Hungarian crisis is assuming dangerous pro-
portions. The exasperation of the Opposition at
yesterday’s “coup de main'’ is growing, and acis of
violence are expected.
At this morning’s sitting of Parliament the scan-
dalous uproar was renewed • with still greater force
than was the case yesterday. Many of the Opposi-
tion brought with them whistles, trumpets and other
kinds of instruments, and when Count Tisza, the
Speaker, and the Premier entered the Chamber they
were received with such insulting cries as “Scoun-
drels!” “Thieves!” “Hangmen!” “Traitors!”
Then commenced a deafening concert of whistles,
trumpets and bells. Count Tisza sat coolly in the
chair, calmly regarding the proceedings and making
a list of the deputies who were to be expelled,
'there were 38 of tnese selected interrupters. The wild
noises continued more than an hour, and insults
were flung even to the gallery, where Countess Tisza,
the Speaker’s wife, was seated.
On a signal from the Speaker a police detachment,
with three officers, entered the Chamber, saluted the
Opposition members, and surrounded their benches.
M. Julius V. Justh, once Speaker of the House and
now Leader of the Opposition (Kossuth is ill, and
left for Nauheim yesterday), was the first to feel an
officer’s hand on his shoulder, and with him 37 others
on the Speaker’s list were turned out. Each of
them flung insulting epithets at the Chair as he was
leaving.
A minute later all the other members of the Oppo-
sition left voluntarily under protest, accompanying
their exodus with the discordant noise of instru-
ments.
During the afternoon’s sitting the excluded
members attempted to resume their Parlia-
mentary duties: —
Blows were exchanged between the Members and
the police, and the officers were worsted. The door
was smashed, and the party forced their way into
the Chamber, and took their seats.
The lawless law-makers were ultimately
flung out again, whereupon Speaker Willis,
that is to say, Count Tisza
Stated that as a number of Deputies had persisted
in causing noisy and childish scenes, he had not orily
ordered their removal, but had also directed that
they should be excluded until the sense of the House
with regard to such improper conduct had been
taken.
It was subsequently announced that M. Julius
Justh is excluded from a further 30 sittings, and M.
Geza Polonyi, M. Martin Lorassy, and M. Sigmund
Eitner from a further 15 sittings. M. Justh is ex-
cluded from 45 sittings in all, and three others from
25 sittings, while 29 other Members of the Justh-
Kossuth People’s party are excluded from 15 sit-
tings. Four Deputies are ordered to make an apology
in the House.
At latest advices :
Budapest is practically in a state of siege, and the
public offices and buildings, as well as the houses of
prominent Deputies belonging to the majority, are
watched day and night by policemen and gendarmes.
The Parliament House itself is surrounded by cavalry,
infantry, gendarmerie and mounted police. Forty-
seven companies of infantry, eight squadrons of
Hussars, 1680 policemen, and 900 gendarmes are
engaged in preventing a surprise on the part of the
allied Opposition. The latter have resolved not to
allow any quiet discussion in the Chamber so long
as Count Tisza, whose election as Speaker they will
not acknowledge, remains in the Chair, and the
Premier, Ladislaus de Lukacs, is in office.


“ Why. Yes ! All Athletes use
Bosisto’s ‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
c
0m
v y
-a
x
w
X
if
u
VW
C2L
k
rx
Vv-'v'
■sS®9^
The Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis.’’
“ ELM a
THE TIME TO ORDER IS NOW.
IN YOUR INTEREST we ask you to write us now re your proposed soda fountain for next
summer.
For if you delay ordering until the rush of the new season begins, you will perhaps have to
wait before a suitable machine can be erected.
YOU NEED NOT TAKE DELIVERY UNTIL YOU REQUIRE IT.
The man who looks ahead is wise, but he that gets ahead of time is wiser still.
We import or manufacture, as the ease demands, for in every instance we supply a plant
exactly suitable to the requirements of your business, and at 20 per cent, less cost than small
jobbers. WRITE AT ONCE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS OF OUR EASY TERMS.
Profit-MaKing Outfits for Hotels, Chemists,
Refreshment Rooms, from
To get the true fruit flavors use our highly concentrated True Fruit Juices.
TRUE FRUIT JUICES in large or small parcels. More Customers at Less Cost.
The Latest American Automatic Carbonators of Drawn Steel, Sheet Tin-Lined,
make crisp Soda-water at £d. per gallon without any attention from operator.
We have just installed the largest Soda Fountain in Australia, at the
Crystal Palace, for The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
We send our experienced man to erect without extra cost.
£25.
NELSON CARBONATING CO. L™
167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-]' rvl
jSstsb&tfllSgkm
mj
»*»
r^‘isj
c*«a
itfi
MS
HH^ipsl
gawfcg^.
V'Hr
‘
mmmun.
MD
. <
■lh
»
&:**£:£•-< '-^cW. 'xk:a% r >?•&•:^
;.v
V >, ' : ' , ' ; w§
H
MHHraHni
a 3
p®
S&Sffij
ssgSjgss
SM:M.
m
*
a®@
.
7
:
-iT,
tip' S
/JS
<s^s
n
CO
w
\w W 3
313
n
I^2
$
6K^
pMssg&ag
• e! " a S& i f.S?
o'
■■'O.
r £
-;y
/ *
?s
„ , v </
•■«*;- O - :>>£!*•'••.V-:;$
2>-; - ; ; vo l -,- {j > ;•■
is?
HP
'*V
m
<5> k
f (.
.
°»P
=o®U a -
I
S§?#;
m
m
fmmm
'&0?Y
W&mm
<=5%S-
-US
fig
S 8«
■Hoswaan
m*
Original and Exclusive Designs, Combined with
the Highest Standard of Workmanship.
No. 0285 Extra Heavy Solid Silver Foil Size Tea
Set, 3 pieces,. £lB/10/-
J 5727 —Silver-plated EntrCe Dish, 35/-
WE PAY POSTAGE ON
ALL GOODS.
0362 —Silver-plated and Cut Glass
Jam Dish, with Spoon,- 14/(5.
0380—Extra Heavy Solid Silver Ser-
viette Rin£, wide, 18/6.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
POSTED FREE.


For Influenza
and after-effects
NOTHING EQUALS
ANgiek@mulsioN
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
The remarkable soothing and healing properties of
Angier’s Emulsion, combined: with its strengthening and
nerve-tonic properties, make it invaluable both during and
after influenza. There is positively nothing to equal it as
a healing tonic and restorative after influenza, pneumonia,
pleurisy, bronchitis or any illness affecting the lungs or
digestive organs.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL. CO., 7 Barrack St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
Missing- Friends.
WANTED to know the whereabouts of
the heirs-at-law or next-of-kin, if
any now living, of ELIZA CAMPBELL
(daughter of Peter Campbell and Elizabeth
Wilson, of Dublin and Portarlington, Ire-
land), who is stated to have married a Mr.
Delany, who left Great Britain for Australia
many years ago. Communications to be
addressed to LAWRENCE JONES and Co.,
Solicitors, 14 Cockspur Street, London,
England.
The WASHINGTON HATCHET
Ten Tools in One; all Serviceable.
Guaranteed Forged Steel.
alligator wrenck
Pu lleb
HAMMER
Agents wanted.
Price 9/6 carriage paid anywhere, Money back if you
say SO. Better than a kit of tools for farmers and
settlers; will do all kinds of repairs to buildings, fences, vehicles,
machinery, furniture, See. Equally valuable for towns-people.
Ten Tools: Hatchet, Hammer, Screwdriver, Pinchers, Pipe
Tongs, Wire Splicer, Wire Cutter, Nail Puller, Alligator
Wrench Staple Drawer, &c. Every purpoSO Ivelß
served. Less than half the cost of the separate teols and
very much handier. No bunting around for scattered tools,
wanted. The UWHOM CO.. 299 Elizabeth St. L Melb»
IN BANANA LAND
Bananaland’s Criminal Investigation De-
partment brags proudly that last year “it
received stolen goods of a value greater than
the salaries of the whole of the Department.”
Sounds queer to hear the C.I.D. bragging
that it is the greatest receiver of stolen goods
in the country. In any case, is the above-
quoted boast a compliment to Queensland, or
otherwise ?
Eighteen months ago Jasper Harvey, the
wild and whirling Anti-Sosher who opposed
Prime Minister Fisher for Wide Bay in
1906, got the billet of Superintendent of the
Anglican Mission Station on Moa (or Maui)
Island (Torres Strait), and it was sup-
posed that politics would know him no more.
But Jasper is again to the fore, and has just
announced that he will stand for Oxley
when Edwards retires next year.
A couple of years ago the Queensland De-
partment of Public Instruction did away
with corporal punishment in the case of
girls over 12 years of age. Now the Teachers’
Conference, inspired by its lady members,
asks Minister Grant to restore the power.
Grant (a bachelor) refuses. The Banana-
land school marms clamor that the abolition
is ridiculous, “for a bad girl is much worse
than a bad boy.” No chivalric “sex” blither
pulls the wool over the eyes of these practi-
cal pedagoguesses.
Cloncurry (N.Q.) has just got a Chinese
cemetery gazetted. Of course, a Chow grave-
yard is only a cemetery pro tem., for a day
arrives when the bones are exhumed and
shipped, duly insured, to China. Some years
ago the s.s. Ventnor took aboard 500 bags of .
Chinese bones, which were insured in Maori-
land for £4500. The Ventnor was lost, and
Maoriland Chowdom was consoled at the
rate of £9 a bag. It is generally believed
that the Celestials bore their loss with truly
Buddhist fortitude.
“Papa” Pinnock, lately deceased, was for
many years the best known of all Queens-
land’s stipendiary magistrates. Pinnock was
quite a piece of ancient history, for he
arrived in Australia in ’43, and passed nearly
the whole of his time in Bananaland. He
did some pioneer squatting on the Downs in
the early days, but abandoned tlie shifty and
treacherous jumbuck to act as P.M. at Bowen
in 1864. Subsequently he served in the same
sort of capacity in Warwick, Dalby and
Brisbane. Was also sheriff of Queensland,
and marshal of the Supreme Court. Pin-
nock, who died in his 86th year, was a good
example of the degeneracy that overtakes a
white race reared in the tropics. In his 75th
year he was a fine, upstanding, stately old
fellow, white-haired and dignified, in spite
of the fact that he was born in the torrid
island of Jamaica, and hardly struck a cool
climate in his life.
Somebody moved in the Queensland Assem-
bly a few days ago for a Special Committee 1
to inquire into the claims of one Down
to a public' grant on the grounds that he was
the original discoverer of Peak Downs gold-
field. But what has happened John Memon-
itch? In 1902 Premier Philp received the
following quaint document —
THIS IS MY BILL.
Oct. 6th, 1912.
To the Honorable Robt. Philp, Premier.
Old Pioneer and explorer of Queensland, first dis-
covered payable gold in the Colony of Queensland,
namely, Peak Downs, Clermont District, from the
years 1861, 1862, 1864 until 1893, to explore and
prospect the field 1 spent £36,000.
£36,000 standing from 1861, at 4s.
per cent. Amount . . . . £19,954 0 0,
Interest .. .. .. .. 8,594 3 5
Total amount r* . . £208,448 3 5
This is the Amount ;df My Claim which is due to
Me by the Government, if the Govt, is not satisfied
to give me my money P will take my land 300 square
mi.es which I explored > and prospected. Since the
colony has been opened by me I claim a premium
on all kinds of Minerals raised in Queensland.
John Memonitch.
Memonitch is still alert and alive on the
matter of his grievance, and the Cabinet that
recognises any other discoverer will have to
reckon with the old warrior.
DOCTOR: “I hope your husband's temperature is a bit lower this morning, Mrs. Johnson?"
MRS. J. (weeping): “ It's gone up, doctor. He died an hour ago.”
Barcaldine lost its oldest resident the
other day, when James French, an ancient
carrier, passed onward where floods and
flies are not, so far as we are aware, though
they may be, there being no dead sure evi-
dence to the contrary. French’s itinerary
took him from Westwood to the Barcoo.
Westwood was, for a long time, the terminus
of the' only line in Central Bananaland ; a
30-mile streak from Rockhampton, opened in
’67, and not continued west at all till ’73.
A carrier who did the 400-mile journey by
the Dawson, Comet and such flood giants in
those days, must have carried a good deal
of unwritten history under his ancient and
dilapidated hat. By the way, it was the
Westwood line that the novelist, Anthony
Trollope, was much -amused with on his
visit in ’72. It “started nowhere, and ended
in the bush,” in which respect it was very
like some of Anthony’s own novels, notably
“The Kellys and the O’Kellys.” West-
wood, which grew tired of being bush,
cleared itself, and grew prickly pear instead
of bush, and then fell asleep, and disremem-
bered to wake again, in consequence whereof
it still slumbers. - .
Dear Bulletin, —After all, latitude is
only a secondary consideration in the adjust-
ment of climatic conditions. Take, for in-
stance, the case of Herberton, in North
Queensland, and the surrounding region of
the Evelyn tablelands. Here, well within
the tropics, you get a temperature compar-
ing favorably with that of north-eastern
Tasmania. It is altitude, not latitude, that
counts for coolness in the tropics. Much of
the plateau country of the Far North of
Queensland averages between 3000 ft. and
4000 ft. above sea level. Hence the delightful
climate on those tablelands. At Ruwenzori,
Kenia and Kilimanjaro, in Africa, there is
perennial snow right under the Equator.
Same thing happens in Ecuador, South
America. All a matter of altitude, my
brothers. In Papua, where you can stand
on an eminence and almost shout in the
Equator’s ear, there are alleged to be snow-
capped mountains in the interior, though no
really authentic person has ever reached
them and come back sober. Enough lias
been proved concerning the internal arrange-
ments of Papua, though, to warrant the
supposition that it could support a big white
civilised population in the cool high regions
of its interior. Peaks of the Owen Stanley
Range run up to 16,000 ft. within sight of
the sea; and residence at 16,000 ft. up will
do anyone who isn’t a perfect hog for alti-
tude and a whale for snow and fur clothing.
Same thing applies to the Northern Terri-
tory ; as remarked in The Bulletin 1 .fl-
ing article (2f/6/’l2). Almost the whole of
the tablelands country of the Territory’s in-
terior averages from 1200 ft. to 1500 ft. above
sea level, with odd peaks in the MacDon-
nells and elsewhere touching the 4000 ft.
mark. Any elevation ranging round the
2000 ft. level may be considered suitable for
white habitation, even right under the Equa-
tor ; and none of the Territory is within
coo-ee of the Line. The bulk of it lies be-
tween 16 and 26 degrees south latitude, and
the whole of that area is tableland country
except, perhaps, a little portion in the south-
eastern corner. When the south-east mon-
soons are blowing across the plateaux of the
Central Territory, as they do for about five
months of the year, from May to September,
it is a place where warm clothing is in much
demand, where dense blankets are required
at night, and where a nose-wipe is handy in
the early dawn, On those tablelands writer
has seen ice on the water-buckets every
morning for a month continuously; and
this in July and only 17 degrees south of the
Line. The greatest perishing writer ever got
from cold was on the tablelands of the Terri-
tory in the winter of 1904. We were over-
landing cattle at the time, and so acute was
the chill at night that we cut up our saddle-
cloths and the fly of a tent to make gar-
ments for protection against it. One mem-
ber of our party cut up a splendid Turkish
towel he had and made a waistcoat of it.
He preferred going without a wash to being
cold. The Bulletin can have his name
and address if it Wants them.—Yours, etc.,
Mallarapoonie.
The Navvy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Discussing- the emoluments of the country clergy,
the Rev. said he knew of one case in which a
minister had turned navvy .—Brisbane daily.
Guess the parson showed his savvy
When he went and turned a navvy,
For it’s better belting roadways
Out of sods
Than be grinding out 1 a sermon
On the height of ancient Hermon,
As a means of getting unction
Into clods. |
If the parson, pinched and pallid,
Could but sing a plaintive ballad,
And recount in truthful accents
All his woes,
At the telling of his pickle
Every decent eye would trickle,
Till the teardrops ran in dozens
Down the nose.
But he’ll keep in lovely fettle,
If he pounds the stubborn metal
As he used to smite Apollyon
On the crown ;
And the matt who belts him madly,
He will clinch with grim and gladly,
Or with brawny fist and hairy
Knock him down.
Any man would ten times rather
Work his body to a lather,
As he swings his pick before him
Through the shale,
Than be harping on the phases
Of Beelezbub and blazes,
Or be dumping hapless Jonah
Down the whale.
And as soon as parson gauges
He can earn a navvy’s wages
By a grit and go and courage
All his own,
He will rather strain his muscle
With a friendly pick, than tussle
With the souls that part up threepence
With a groan.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 27, 1912.
My Dear Thargomindah.-t-
The deep, rich baritone of the bull and
the tenor bleat of the sheep have been loud
in the land this week. Governor Macgregor
attended their recital at Nambour, on
Wednesday, and hurried away next day to
Gatton. At both places he threw open the
prize pumpkin and unlocked the oratorical
bottle of jam. On Friday, at the Boys’
Grammar School, he opened a new labora-
tory, wherein our embryo chemists and
medicoes may smellfully experiment. To-
day (Saturday), he entertained about 50
kiddies from the Deaf and Dumb School at
the panto., and had them fed copiously on
chocolate at half-time. As seen from my
observation perch on the roof, the vice-regal
pageant this week has been mostly cows and
kids.
Mrs. Marienthal, of Sydney, who is shel-
tering here from the New South Gales
weather, gave a theatre party last Tuesday.
The pretty Earwaker girls and Dr. Connolly
were included in the invited bunch.
Yda Buchanan, sister of our ex-Mayor,
has fled to Maryborough from this vortex of
gaiety, and is fairly in the social whirl of
those parts. (The velocity of the whirl
there has been estimated as two miles per
annum.) Mrs. Corser, whose husband, the
M.L.A., wears Dundreary whiskers of the
1864 vintage, is gallantly looking after the
fair guest.
Another bridge and euchre party convulsed
this city on Monday evening. The Clayfield
oroquet Club determined to dazzle the visit-
ing southerners, and fixed upon the cards.
“Let us throw off our wonted air of sedate
solidity!” they cried. “Let us forget that
we are croqueteers of Clayfield, and the
hard-baked foundations of society, and hit
things up for once. Here’s for one night in
Monte Carlo! Who’s got change of a shil-
ling?” (At least, I guess it must have been
something like that.)
Mrs. Bulcock incited some of the revellers
to small talk with tea at Eschenhagen’s, on
Monday. There was about a hogshead of
tea left over, as most of the visitors and
many of the players were engaged finishing
the tournament. The mallets are being
wearily wielded to-day at Ascot.
Samuel Griffith, C.J., and his dame booked
through to your part on Friday. They led
the strenuous social life whilst here. Some
nights they were out as late as 10 o’clock.
This place grows more like sleepless Paris
every day.
Mrs. Dick Casey, of Melbourne, who be-
longs to . the handsome Harris family,
returned to Melbourne by the Orient boat
last Wednesday. She farewelled all her
friends with tea prior to going aboard the
tall ship, and; rolling south in the broken
white teeth of the weather.
Ellis Rowan, the clever, fragile, little
flower painter, is at present in Brisbane,
where she is engaged. trying -to interest an
apathetic Government in her Australian col-
lection. It is about as encouraging as try-
ing to interest a sleepy elephant in a sleight-
of-hand trick, but the lady persists bravely.
Treasurer Barnes opened the Wellington
Point Show to-day. (This is the cow’s week
at home.) Pretty Mrs. Caine, wife of the
new member for Bowen, smiled on the cere-
mony, and Mrs. Stodart and Mrs. Williams,
with their respective husbands in leash, were
attentive to the opening remarks. At 1
o’clock the party attempted to lunch, but
was foiled in some manner, and returned to
town in an unfurnished condition.
The whole village has been footing it dur-
ing the past week. On Monday evening, the
Brisbane Rowing Club capered in the South
Brisbane Technical College. Mrs. David
Hamilton and Miss Doris Nicholson helped
secretary Finucan to weather it out. Miss
Sybil Gordon, from Sydney, was one of the
dancers.
A few of the moneyed bachelors conspired
together and entertained the village peerage
at a dance in the same hall, on Wednesday
evening. Palms, bachelors and other green
stuff were spread round regardless of ex-
pense, and a string band sawed and twanged
the gay entrancing strains that are so re-
mindful of tired machinery when heard from
without.
St. Patrick’s dance on the same night
was positively crowded. One Rubick, who
has already collected a fair number of
prizes for his cowboy costume, was again
successful, and repeated the offence at the
Scandinavian Masked Ball the following
evening. Someone will have to kidnap and
burn those extraordinary garments if the
village is to be saved from exploding with
suppressed jealousy.
On Friday, the Brisbane Ladies’ Rowing
Club gave a hop or bound at Kangaroo
Point. Partners were plentiful, and supper
was abundant, so all was well.
One of Brisbane’s popular young matrons
endeavored to farewell a scion of Adelaide
nobility this week with cakes in which a
distracted cook had substituted salt for
sugar. The function looked like being
ruined, when someone dashed out and hurried
back with some bread and butter. The chef
(he is suspected of Socialism and a hatred
of the upper classes) has been degraded in
rank and exiled to an English duke’s kit-
chen. As he is passionately fond of excite-
ment and fashion, he will probably pine
away or take to drink.
Three women just went past with their
best hats on. Must get up on the roof and
watch where they are heading. If it’s a
function, I’ll tell you next week.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


THE HOWARD WATCH
The Greatest Practical Achievement
in Watch Accuracy and Refinement.
The Howard is a WONDERFUL Watch !
In its sixty years’-history are recorded what are perhaps the greatest
triumphs in accuracy and durability ever accredited to any time-
piece.
When Edward Howard —as long ago as 1840—set out to make the
world’s best watch, he determined that every timepiece bearing his
name should be good enough, in every feature, to present to the
President of the United States.
He thereby set a very high standard; and from that day to this the
Howard Company have faithfully maintained it.
The Howard Watch never varies. Whatever the climate, whatever
the usage, whatever the position in which it may be carried, it is
invariably accurate.
Peary carried one to the Pole; Wilbur Wright found it the only
watch suited to aviation; and Eear-Admiral Sigsbee (Com-
mander of U.S.S. Maine, at the time of the famous catastrophe in
Havana Harbor), whose Howard Watch was submerged live
days in sea-water, to-day finds it as accurate as ever.
The. Howard Watch has specially hard-temf A ice, which will
not displace with jolting or vibration. II » wjp. d adjusted to
position, temperature, and isochronism *-• * v.<- ns that it will
run true on its face, on its back, in differ*...,.,. % . .es, and under
intense heat or cold.
Treat yourself to a GOOD watch! The Howard will last much
longer than a lifetime; and is, consequently, the cheapest in the
long run.
HOWARD 16-SIZE 23 JEWELS
Railroad, Standard, Bridge Model.
Special five position adjustment. The
finest practical timepiece in the world.
14 ct. Heavy Gold open face, £26;
Hunting, £2B/5/-; 18c#., extra Heavy
Solid Gold open face, £32/5/-;
Hunting, £35/10/-
HOWARD 12-SIZE EXTRA THIN
Bridge Model, 19 fine jewels and adjustment
for five positions. A strictly high-grade
timepiece. Open face or Hunting. 14 ct.
Gold, £l9/15/- and £22; 18c*. Gold, £23
and £26.
11
10
A
5
Showing the neatly=figured
dial and special 1 thin=style
case of the Howard Watch.
THE HOWARD SWING-
RING CASE
An absolutely dust-proof
model, specially adapted
for railway, engineering,
mining or factory use.
Can be supplied at any of
the prices of our 16 -size
open face Howard Models.
HOWARD 16-SIZE 17 JEWELS
Three-quarter plate, model double
roller, adjusted to three positions and
extremes of temperature. Open face
or Huntinq Crescent, Gold-filled,
£B/8/- and £B/17/6; 14 ct..
£l5/15/- and £l7/15/-; 18 ct., £22
and £25.
HOWARD 16-SIZE CARVEL WATCH
Open face only. Extra thin style, adjusted
to three positions. Seventeen selected jewels
in gold settings. A splendid watch at a
moderate price.
14ct. Heavy Gold Case £ll/10/-
We can supply Howard Watches in 25 years’ Crescent Gold filled; 14ct. Heavy Gold; and 18ct. Extra Heavy Gold
Cases, at prices ranging from £7/15/- to £35/10/-
THE “EDWARD HOWARD’’ SPECIAL. A masterpiece of the Watchmaker’s Craft, £72/18/4.
“THE LOG OF THE HOWARD WATCH.”—A neat little booklet dealing with the 42 years of Naval duty done by Rear-Admiral
Sigsbee’s “Howard” Watch. You will find it interesting. Let us send copies of the Howard Booklets to your address.
PROUDS LTD.
Sole Representatives for Australasia,
187 Pitt Street, Sydney,
2 Doors from
King Street.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. “Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON k CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide k Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS k CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENX S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
jh
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
(tank of llorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Sank of neu> Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. . . £1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up - . . . . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Bankinar business.
THE,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt„ Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . .. .. 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. —
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of 47 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
N ord D eutscher L/loyd
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted v. ‘.th Laundry.
Fares to London: 1., £66 ; 11., £33/10/- ; 111., £l5 to £l9
Fares to London: Return—l., £99; 11-, £57/15/-;
111., £27, £34/4/-
Return Ticket available for Return via Cape of
Good Hope per Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Ist Class, £88; 2nd Class, £66.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from
Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea.
Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —-
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
U. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide:
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
jhj
Twin-screw Stoamers.
MEDIC, 12,C00 cons, to sail about
September 26.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 7.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capeto.vn or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Uav of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
s.s. COOMA,
S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINS.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo,•Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
Winter Tours to
the Pacific Isles.
hj
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in one of the
Burns, Philp Line of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from 21 to 52 days at a cost of from ,£5
to £2s.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ĵh
ĥj
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Ivt.,
M.L.C., President.
The lion. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
DIRECTORS:
Richard Binnie, Esq. _
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard EdgeclifT Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua .2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
Georue J. Cohen, Esq . . .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Piniiey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .• •• ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ——'
Gen Man . Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The (Jolonial mutual fife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Garden of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO
UNITED STATES INLAND POINTS, also GREAT
BRITAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-WORLD
TOURS IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUEZ AND CAPE
LINES.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, August 10.
S.S. MO ANA, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, October 5.
Sailings every 28 days.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at •
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
a del Aim:
PORT PIIUE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping? at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
I S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons)
> August 3. Wireless
j Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
-MACK AY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims.
S. c . Innamincka, Aug 3.
I S.S. Marloo, Aug. 10.
I S.s. YVollowra. Aug. 17.
' S.S. Grantala, Aug. 24.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can b«
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-It EH ” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.S. F.S.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SOMERSET.
11,900 Tons. J. B. HUNTER, Commander.
Will be despatched Irom :—-
BRISBANE about Aug. 13
SYDNEY „ Aug-. 20
MELBOURNE about Auff. 27
ADELAIDE „ Sept. 8
Tht Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class pasengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares.. .. £4O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed bv the
*T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE,, leaving Sydney about Sep-
tember 17.
T.S.S. DORSET, leaving Sydney about October 15.
*Fitted with Wireless.
For further information see Illustrated Books,
Pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
h
South Sea
.. . and .. .
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
•T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, AUGUST 13.
•T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, SEPT. 10.
*Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloop, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), *R.M. t.s.s. Tahiti, August 10. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.S.
Aorangi September 3, arriving Sydney, September 17.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. *Talune, July 30 (Maheno,
from Sydney, July 24, connects.)
'’Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation fo the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Eire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. The National Monthly.
IiONE
Price, Oil.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL, - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “ United ” Is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
i/V’v-"
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
A’ikMikiH
&he HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff: 61- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
LONDON.
NOWHERE in London exists the
equivalent of this famous Family
Hotel, offering the atmosphere of
; a refined English Home rather than
that of an hqtel.
Its situation is healthy and plea-
sant, within a few minutes of the
city’s chief attractions by tubes,
motor-’buses, railways and
rank at the door.
Rooms, large, lofty and airy. Wide
corridors —private suites (en famille),
including separate bathrooms. Every
thinkable modern convenience and
refined luxury. Most convenient for,
visitors with interests in the City and
the Provinces, London’s five great
railway, termini being within a few
miuui.es of the Hotel.
Telegrams, “ Centellare,” London.
“Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
THREE PER CENT. ALLOWED ON ALL DEPOSITS UP TO £3OO.
Agencies at 490 Victorian Post Offices, and at 317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Melbourne, 15th July, 1912. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
The State Savings Bank of Victoria.
ESTABLISHED 1841.
Guaranteed by the Government of Victoria.
Interest is now allowed on Deposits up to £3so*
Namely—
-3' /2 per cent, on first £lOO, and 3 per cent, on excess over £lOO up to £350.
The Total Amount of Deposits is now nearly Twenty Million Pounds.
Melbourne, Ist July, 1912. GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director. *
m
fcfcb.
HIT.
I'ostage. — Viciona 9a ;
Other States 1 /-
mmm
m
V * ?
'V
:/• *
Nets,
Balls,
Presses,
Etc.
Racket
Repairs.
Strings.
SPECIALTIES. t —The Risley Hexagon Racket —English
Made. Its special design gives enormous strength and driving
power, combined with balance. Double Mains Positively the best
Racket for volle>iug and driving— The Driva. World-renowned for
excellence of materials, evenness of tension and perfection of balance.
HAS WON OVER 25 CHAMPIONSHIPS.
Davis’s Slazenger's Pastime 18/6 Ayre’s Hrn'iicap - 17/6
Risley Hexagon 42/- Demon- - 18/- Ward & \\right’s 25/-
Shand Special 42/- Renshaw - 13/6 Bussey’s Alpha - 5/6
Williams’s Driva - 42/- Ayre’sS.N.D. - 40/- Alert- - - 7/6
Tournament - 30/- Wilding - - 37/6 Prosser’s Club 27/6
Slazenger’s Doherty 35/ Gryalla - - 32/6 Association - 22/6
E.G M. - 30/- Champion - 22/6 Pluto - 17/6
GET OUR LIST OR CALL
ALGOCK & PIERCE, 318 Lit. Collins St. f Melb.
THE
PROOF of my CIGARS
IS IN THE SMOKING
Ou*\
DUYERS all over Australia and New Zealand, by their
repeat orders, testify to the good smoking qualities,
flavor, and aroma of my Cigars.
To convince yourself, send me an order for 100 of any
of the following:—
IMPERIALS 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 ..
DIADEMAS 22/6
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6 „
INFANTAS 17/6 „
LEVUCAS 15/6
Smoke 5 or 6 of them, and, if you are not satisfied,
return the remainder to me, and
I WILL REFUND IN FULL THE AMOUNT PAID.
Remit amount with order, and I will deliver Cigars,
all charges paid, to any part of Australia. When order-
ing, state whether you like a mild, medium, or full
flavor. Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address lfl
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
Dominion Accordeons
Are, High-Grade Musical Instruments
and excel in their beauty of design,
solidity of construction, exactness of
tuning and superior quality of tone.
They range in price from 12/- to
30/-. ONE of the best is—
ĥĵh
Dominion Accor-
deon, No. 117,
Size IVA x 6'A ins.
Three sets reeds,
three acting stops.
Ninefold Triple Bel-
lows, with all cor-
ners metal bound,
polished ebonised
tops and mouldings.
Fitted with Brass
Amplifying Trumpets
on keyboaid, very
powerful tone.
Price, 29/-
Ask for Complete Illustrated Catalogue
And name of nearest Agent.
Jackson & Macdonald
Druitt Street, Sydney
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
the same
diseases 'without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name t*®
h
POWER!
The Most Economical Plant in the World is tHe
WOLF
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile.
The Coal Consumption on Standard Engine
is O *789 ib. per B.H.P. per hour .
n
dll
hme | [Magdeburg
Suers
330
oar
m
’
-> - .
fc JtfriMll.. . r ,»'|
CLASS T.H.C. ENGINE.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
HAES & EGGERS LTD
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Local Agents —
'■ ADELAIDE : Newton McLaren Ltd. 7 Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE : Diamond Lubricating and Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Dean & Collie, 335 Queen Street.
WOLF’S Standard Locomobiles
are a self-contained complete steam power plant,
including Boiler, fitted with patent, withdrawable Furnace and Tubes, Superheaters,
Engine, Jet or Surface Condenser, Feedwater Heater, Air and teed Pumps,
all in one unit,
giving the highest economy in fuel and stenni.
They occupy a minimum of floor spac-, requiring only the lightest foundations, and
are easily attended even by unskilled Libor.
In regard to
durability, reliability, steady running, adaptability,
WOLF Superheated Steam Locomobiles at least equal the best steam engine or
turbine plants of several 1000II.P. Their superiority in economy is attained by
their faultless construction and in obviating the many losses, including radiation,
etc., which are unavoidable in steam plants having separate boiler and engine.
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, WOLF Locomobiles
possess the following advantages:
Cheaper cost of fuel.—Great reserve of power allowing overloads up to 50
per cent. Steadiness in running under extreme and sudden variation of
load. USE ANY KIND OF FUEL, besides coal (woodwaste, logs, peat, tan
bark, sugar cane [bagasse], naphtha, petroleum, inferior coal, lignite, etc.).—
Utilisation of steam for heating or manufacturing purposes.—Easy attend-
ance evpn by unskilled hands. —-Absolute Reliability and Greater Durability.
Greater Simplicity and Continuously Maintained Economy also at Lower
Loads.
In addition to the manv Plants already installed throughout
Australia, we are at present Installing the following—
W. Angless, Melbourne ... one 600 B.H.P.
W. Angless, Melbourne two 300 „
Clyde Brick Works, Clyde one 260 „
Murrumbidgee Co-operative Flour Milling Co., Wagga... one 180 „
Fuerth 8 Nall, Sydney one 105 „
N.S.W. Railway Workshops one 70 „
Public Works Department, for Lithgow Sewerage Works... two 18 „
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.


Missing Friends.
I 1 HOME JOHN TORRENS, son of the
VH late Elizabeth Torrens (afterwards
the wife of George William Biles), is re-
quested to communicate with the under-
signed in connection with a legacy payable
under the will of the late George William
Biles.
J. A. THOMPSON,
Solicitor,
A.M.P. Chambers, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
£2O REWARD for Information Concerning the
Whereabouts of CORNELIUS (CON.) BOURKE.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
1 COMPANY, LIMITED, of No. 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria (the Trustee of a Settle-
ment of C. Beatrke), is desirous of ascertaining the
whereabouts of one Cornelius Bourke (commonly
known as Con Bourke), formerly licensee of the
Prince of Wales Hotel, Hamilton, Victoria, and who
is supposed to have left Victoria about 22 years ago
arid gone to New South Wales or South Australia.
He sometimes went under the name of McDonald.
The above reward will be paid to the first person
supplying the said Company with satisfactory in-
formation concerning the present whereabouts of the
said Cornelius Bourke if living, or if dead, the date
of his death, name of the place where he died,
whether he was married, and if married, whether he
left a widow and children. . Information must be
supplied within two months from the date hereof.
Dated the 18th day of June, 1912.
ERNEST W. POWLING, Princes Street, Port Fairy,
Solicitor for the said Company.
FREDERICK WILSON.
| F this should meet the eye of FREDERICK WIL-
-1 SON, formerly of Warborougli, Mosinan, Sydney,
he will hear of something greatly to his advantage
by communicating with Shipway and Berne, of 113
Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia—
Solicitors for his Brothers and Sisters, and for his
late Mother.
&50 REWARD.
The abovenamed FREDERICK WILSON left Syd-
ney in 1894, and was engaged in Farming pursuits
in Putara, near Eketahuna, New Zealand, up till
1902. We have just heard from a friend of his that
he was in Wellington, New Zealand, in 1907, and
in Ohakune, New Zealand, in April, 1908. If he is
dead, we will pay the above reward to the first
person who gives us satisfactory proof thereof. If
he is alive, we will pay the reward to the first
person who gives us such information as will lead
to his diseoverv bv us.
SHIPWAY & BERNE, Solicitors,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Amusements.
THE MARVELLOUS
CRYSTAL PALACE.
Direction: J. D. WILLIAMS.
NOW OPEN.
JOIN THE CROWDS OF DELIGHTED VISITORS.
SEE THE SPLENDID THEATRE DE LUXE.
HAVE TEA, AN ICE, OR GRILL IN THE BEAUTIFUL
WINTER GARDEN.
Great Fun in the Arcade of a Thousand Wonders.
Solve, if you can, the Miracle of
“THE SHADOW OF THE CROSS.”
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS CO. Ltd.,
PROPRI ETORS.
NTEItNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wii. 11. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the monev-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth ; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England;
Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
~KR MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE QUINLAN GRAND OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, at 7.15 : Gounod’s FAUST.
FRIDAY, at 7: Wagner’s TRISTAN & ISOLDE.
SATURDAY, at 2 : Debussy’s PRODIGAL SON ; Humper-
dinck’s HANSEL & GRETEL.
SATURDAY, at 8 : Verdi’s LA TRAVIATA.
MONDAY, at 7,15 : Wagner’s LOHENGRIN.
PLANS AT PALING’S AND HOTEL AUSTRALIA.
Til EAT E E ROY AE, SYDNEY.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON,
Wi(h their London Company and the Original
Production of
K ISM U T,
An Arabian Knight, by EDWARD KNOBLAUCH.
PRICES : Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls (hooked), 7/6,
(atdoors), 6/-: Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, to 7.30 2/-, thereafter 1/-
A E A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-Lessee and Director : ALLEN DOONE.
ALLEN DOONE and SWEET COUNTY KERRY.
Every Evening. Every Evening.
See the Great Smithy Scene. See Doone Shoe the Horse.
See the Irish Jigs and Reels.
'Hear Doone sing “ Noreen,” “A Toast to Erin,”
“ Endearing Young Charms.” “ Love’s Language.”
First Matinde Sweet County Kerry, Wednesday at 2.
PRICES 4/-, 2/6 & 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
|y| ATIONAE AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
S—THE PECHILLIE TROUPE—S of Chinese Acrobats,
Jugglers, Contortionists and Gymnasts.
BESSIE SLAUGHTER, England’s Contralto.
FRANCIS E. CURRAN, America’s Monopede Athlete.
LES FRANCOIS, Comedv Acrobats and Balancers.
SHIPP & GAFFNEY, VERNE & SMITH, HARRY
SADLER, LYLA THOMPSON.
Saturday Next —CARRIE MOORE, Australia’s Favorite.
PRICES : 2/6, 2/-, 1/- and 6d. No Booking Fee.
A~D ELr H I THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
SUCCESS! SUCCESS!! SUCCESS!U
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
GEORGE MARLOW, LTD., presents
The Great Australian Drama dealing with Incidents of
Sydney Social Life,
THE GIRL WHO' LOVED A SOLDIER.
The Most Spectacular Production ever Staged.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
JHE LYCEUM, SYDNEY,
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
GIAOIAKICM,
gYD N E Y
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12 a.m. 3 to 5 p.m. 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATE HIRE—6d.
Children Admission—Morning and Afternoon only, 1/-
Saturday Morning: Admission—Children 6d.
Phone : 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE. Manager
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
■ Haymarket. Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d.. 6d., Is.
THE IMPERIAL R O LLE RKIjLk,
1 Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPLN.
featuring all that is best
in
ROLLE R S KATIN G.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Q EYMPIA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
IVS R WALTER BENTLEY
the Distinguished Actor.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
554 George Street, Sydney.
O ICK A R DS’ TIVOEI THEATRE.
■» General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FOUR AMARANTHS, Whirlwind Dancers.
ALEC HURLEY, English Coster Impersonator.
THE BROTHERS WEBB, Famous Musical Clowns.
NIAGARA & FALLS, Comedy Acrobatic Duo.
MISS FANNY POWERS, Popular Australian Artist.
FRANK J. SYDNEY & CO., Specialty Jumping Act.
FRED BLUETT, Australia’s Favorite Comedian.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNK.
Genefal Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
THE HANS PAXTON TROUPE, Ground Acrobats.
RIOII*& RICH, the Real Racy Comedians.
MOZZETTO, the Great Juggler.
TOM DAWSON, the Popular Comedian.
FRED RUSSELL, the Great Ventriloquist.
VIVIAN ite ALTON in their Specialty Act,
“A Chinaman’s Troubles.”
Plan at Allan’s. IW“PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS!
on the Marvellous "Muck Screen, together wiui the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
y HEATKB KOVAL, MEUBOUJtNK.
FOR A FEW SIGHTS ONLY.
The Perfection of Exhilarating Comedy,
YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
By GEORGE BERNARD SHAW.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, (>/-
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
KIN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Sole Direction: ALLAN HAMILTON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 3.
PLIMMER DENNISTON CO.
in
The Famous Comedy Drama,
A MESSAGE FROM MAES.
Prices 5/-, 3/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
The ’ king’s theatre, Melbourne
Sole Lessee and Director: William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT. SATURDAY NEXT.
Charles Derrell’s Romantic and Sensational Drama.
THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BIT.
The Reigning Success of the Present London Season—
now being played by NINE DISTINCT COMPANIES
throughout the Provinces.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
Flans at Allan’s feThe Ornnd. Por>ni->- iv-y •■>' »' *-
MISS MARY R R O w I O
THE DISTINGUISHED LADY ASTRONOMER
(Daughter of the late Richard A. Proctor).
AUSTRALIAN LECTURE TOUR.
(Direction of DIX & BAKER LTD.)
MELBOURNE: ATHENAEUM HALL, commencing
AUGUST 5 (six nights).
SYDNEY : Y.M.C.A. HALL, commencing AUGUST Is
(six nights).
J. WALLACE BROWN, Representative.
| C E SKATING.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 6.
GRAND
FANCY DRESS CARNIVAL.
THE CARNIVAL OF THE SEASON.
D A N C I N G.
Lessons- —Morning, Afternoon and Evening.
MR. AND MRS. ROBERTS
quickly impart to their Pupils the necessary ability
and confidence to acquit themselves creditably in the
Ballroom, etc.
STRICTLY PRIVATE LESSONS (undivided atten-
tion). Perfect Waltzing, Reversing, etc., The Two-
Step, The One-Step, Valse, Boston, Veleta, etc.
160 PHILLIP STREET and ST. JAMES’S HALL.
HOW AND WHAT TO DANCE.
NEW AND COMPLETE BALLROOM GUIDE.
giving full and explicit description of the new
and graceful dance, “The One-Step” (which is now so
immensely popular), and all the modern and fashion-
able dances. Price. 1/-; posted. 1/3 (stamps).
MR. and MRS. ROBERTS,
Teachers of Dancing,
106 Phillip Street, Sydney.
|_| EB MAJESTY’S THEATKE, MELBOURNE.
THE RETURN OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
A STRONG CAST OF FAVORITES.
Reappearance of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE QUAKER GTE L.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
HALL, MELBOURNE.
FOR THIS WEEK ONLY.
MOLLY CAREVV.
MOLLY CAREW.
SONGS AT THE PIANO.
Prices : 5/- Reserves, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Box Plan at Pianola Co.
Direction : FAULKNER-SMITH.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER'S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
lA# E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST S PICTURES >thb best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinfees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Wagga Wagga Show.
OVER OVER
£l2OO ™ ZE MONEY £l2OO
AUGUST 20, 21 and 22.
Entries—Food, Cookery, Fine Arts, etc., School
Work and Needlework—close JULY 29.
General Entries (except where otherwise speci-
fied), close MONDAY, AUGUST 5.
Entry Forms, Prize Lists, apply—
A. F. D. WPIITE, Secretary.
\
/
S 3
7
r Big G >
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
[ A safe and reliable remedy\
r for treating diseases of ALL
mucous membranes, such as
discharges f rom t h enose, throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure your self'f -
with each bottle |
\or mailed on request. (
Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio V
U.S.A.
jh
In Four Styles t
Regular
Safety
Pump-Filling
Self-Filling
Waterm^an’s
(Ideal)
Fount ainißen
Nibs to suit
all hands.
Every Pen
guaranteed.
ĥj
HOW I ENLARGED MY BUST
SIX INCHES IN THIRTY DAYS
AFTER I HAD TRIED PILLS, MASSAGE, WOODEN CUPS AND VARIOUS
ADVERTISED PREPARATIONS WITHOUT THE SLIGHTEST RESULTS
A Simple, Easy Method which any Lady can use at
home, and quickly obtain a Large and Beautiful Bust.
BY margarette merlain.
Well do I know the horrors and intense
humiliation of being flat-chested ; of having
the face of a woman set on the form of a
man; and I cannot find words to tell you
how good I felt and what a terrible load
was lifted off my mind when I first saw my
bust had really grown six inches in size. I
felt like a new being, for with no bust I
realised I was really neither a man nor a
woman, but just a sort of Creature half-way
between.
’ SKSKraj:
mmm m m mrnmmmm
tSSSSSSSS
mm
m
m
vWJf.
mb
**
Mi
M ffiii £u
Keep this picture and see your own bust undergoing the same marvellous transformation.
With what pity must every man look at
ivery woman who presents to him a flat
chest —a chest like his own. Can such a
woman inspire in a man those feelings and
emotions which can only be inspired by a
real and true woman, a woman with a beau-
tiful, well-rounded bust? Most certainly not.
The very men who shunned me, and even
the very women who passed me carelessly
by when I was so horribly flat-chested and
had no bust, became my most ardent ad-
mirers shortly after I obtained such a won-
derful enlargement of my bust. I therefore
determined that all women who were flat-
chested should profit by my accidental dis-
covery and have a bust like my own. I had
been imposed upon by charlatans and frauds,
who sold me all sorts of pills and appli-
ances for enlarging the bust, but which did
me no good whatever. I therefore deter-
mined my unfortunate sisters should no
longer be robbed by those “fakirs” and
frauds, and I wish to warn all women
against them.
: The discovery of the simple process with
which I enlarged my bust six inches inisS|o
days was due solely to a lucky accident,
which I believe was brought about by Divine
Providence; and as Providence was so good
as to give me the means to obtain a beauti-
ful bust, I feel I should give my secret to all
my sisters who need it. Merely enclose two
penny stamps for postage, and I will send
you particulars by return.
I will positively guarantee that every lady
can obtain a wonderful enlargement in her
bust in 30 days’ time, and that she can
easily use this process in the privacy of her
own house without the knowledge of anyone.
—Address, Margarette Merlain (Dept.
1024 C.), Pembroke House, Oxford Street,
London, W., Eng.
FREE COUPON for Readers of Sydney “ Bulletin,”
entitling; the sender to full information regarding this marvellous discovery for enlarging and
beautifying the bust. Out out this coupon (or write and mention No. 1024 C), and send
to-day with your name and address, enclosing two penny stamps for reply, to Margarette
Merlain (Dept. 1024 C), Pembroke House, Oxford Street, London, W., Eng.
Name
Address
NOTE. —All ladies who wish to obtain a large and beautiful bust should write Madame Merlain at
once, as the above is an honest, straightforward offer on her part, made for the good of her sisters, and
she in no way profits by the transaction, but generously offers her help absolutely free to all who use tie
free coupon above. Ladies who fear that their busts wan become too large arc cautioned to stop the
treatment as soon as they have obtained all the development desired.


HIMRODS
CIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lora
Beaconsfield testified to thebenefitslie
received from HIMROD’S ASTHMA
POWDER, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years,
Seat Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever,
Hose Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins bv all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ASTHMA POWDER
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
ll' '%
pwpm\\\\\\\\W
F.WOLFF&SOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
, KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
aLsiirJ
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.
From “Trotter” :
Vastly important to Australia is an agreement
just concluded between Russia, Britain and France
for the construction of the trans-Persian railway.
Germany is not in this particular job. The whole line
from Constantinople via Bagdad (of “Kismet fame),
to Karachi, in India, will shorten the trip from Lon-
don to Bombay by five days. Add the two days that
will be saved by the Westralian railway, and you
have an entire week saved between Sydney and Lon-
don. The only sea worth mentioning will be Fre-
mantle to Bombav. From Constantinople there will
be a rattle to Ostend. Yet the British Government
has persistently, up till now, opposed every Central
Asian railway scheme. Persia has not one mile of
railway. Consider how Britain tries to keep large
. portions of the Globe in comparative barbarism.
There is fierce hostility in a majority of the British
newspapers, and, of course, by a great section of
politicians, to the trans-Persian railway. Thev say
it will bring Russia to the gates of India! Conse-
rmentlv; there should be no'civilisation.
The person who cannot swim is seemingly
as prevalent in educated Germany as in any
other old country. Hot weather lately in-
duced a lot of Germans to try a bath in the
Rhine, the cable said, and 22 of them were
ready for the undertaker when they came
out of the historic river.
The first sitting of N.S.W. Court of Criminal
Appeal, instituted by Holman last session,
was held in Sydney (19/7/T2), Justice Pring
presiding. Eight incorrigible optimists asked
for leave to appeal to the Full Court against
their convictions. Six of them were turned
down with a dull, cold bump; one was
granted leave on the ground that his sen-
tence was too heavy; and another was
allowed a second run for his money against
that part of his sentence which declared that
he was to be treated as an habitual criminal.
ghgh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
gh
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBBY AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD.," LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
sdfsd
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogubs Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
S sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
7
Dlt. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“IWROID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney.
ESTABLISHED -38740
FOR
COUGHS
fpirbridg
UjungMc
cs
FOR
COLDS
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for “OWBRIDGE’S’
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL, ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
A Kingly Drink tvith a Kingly Title.
KING
GEORGE
IV”
Scotch Whisky.
One of the principal brands of
the Distillers
Largest Scotch Whisky
Distillers in the World
Company,
Capital employed,
over ,£3,000,000.
L TD >
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
SYDNEY s ANGEL PLACE.
MELBOURNE: 52, WILLIAM ST.
rr
a.
*
u
f*
9


A Remarkable and Convincing State'
ment of the Success of Cuticura
Soap and Ointment in theTreat-
mentofthe Pain, Itching and
Burning of Eczema
“I, the undersigned, cannot give enough
praise to the Cuticura Remedies. I had been
doctoring for at least a year for eczema on
my foot. I had tried doctor after doctor all
to no avail. When a young girl I sprained
my ankle three different times, paying little
or no attention to it, when five years ago
a small spot showed upon my left ankle.
1 was worried and sent for a doctor. He
said it was eczema. He drew a small bone
from the ankle about the size of a match
and about an inch long. The small hole
grew to about, the size of an apple, and
the eczema spread to the knee. The doctors
never could heal the hole in the ankle,
•■he whole foot ran water all the time.
“My husband and my sons were up night
and day wheeling me from one room to an-
other in the hope of giving me some relief.
I would sit for hours at a time in front of
the fireplace hoping for daybreak. The
pain was so intense I was almost crazy
in fact, I would lose my reason for hours
at a time. One day a friend of mine dropped
in to see me. No more had she glanced at
my foot than she exclaimed; ‘Mrs. Finnegan,
why in the world don’t you try the Cuti-
cura Remedies!’ Being disgusted with the
doctors and their medicines, and not being
able to sleep at all, I decided to give the
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment a
trial. After using them three days that
night I slept as sound as a silver dollar
for eight long hours. I awoke in the morning
with but very little pain, in fact, I thought
I was in heaven. After using the Cuticura
Remedies for three months I was perfectly
restored to health, thanks to the Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. I will be sixty-four
years of age my next birthday, hale and
hearty at present.” (Signed) Mrs. Julia Finne-
gan, 2234 Hebert St., St. Louis. Mo., U. S. A.,
March 7,1911.
Sold everywhere. Send to R. Towns & Co.,
Dept. 20K, Sydney, N. S. W., for liberal
sample of Cuticura Ointment, post-free.
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grev
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S. A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if vou
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s ( u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years'
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Make the Liver
Do its Duty
Nine times in ten when the liver is right
the stomach and bowels are right
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS
gently but firmly com-
pel a lazy liver to
do its duty.
Cure Con-
stipation,
Indiges-
tion,
Sick
ghgh
Carters
WITTLE •
IIVER
I PILLS.
Headache, and Distress after Eating.
Small Pill, small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Sale and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
ĥ
ħĝh
ĥg
h
The above clearly shows Results from a ShoptCourse of my True HahMlrowlng Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower-.
I am not an advertising .quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
1 had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, . but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. ..One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a ftew days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth aiftcr
several applications, and within six weeks my head
Was covered by a firm, yet. soft, black growth of hair,
wince then the hair on illy head has been-as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do SO, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous liair-growlng com-
pound. I hold Over one thousand letters from people
\Vho_ have actually grown new hair through the
medium Of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only liair grower in the world—Lam
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that, it is the most reliable,, and in the end byfhr tlie
Cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Etching,; dc.,
Free Trlai Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3. stamps
to Cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower..
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, IQ7 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
FgREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing ii of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d.
per pac.cet. When you have sold the cards, return us our (is., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. Kv continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
jhg
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 BOND ST., SYDNEY.
ALL THE PRIZES IN THE
WORLD’S SHORTHAND CHAMPIONSHIPS,
Held in London, May 1912,
WERE AGAIN WON BY
Swan Fountain Pen Users.
Ist Prize—R. J. GARWOOD (and Cup).
2nd Prize—W. McDOUGALL.
3rd Prize—W. F. SMART.
All of whom USED SWAN PENS in the tests.
SWAN PENS are equally good for LONGHAND.
Swan Pens are sold in Australia at London Prices.
EVERY HIGH-CLASS STATIONER STOCKS THEM.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
credT*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a'charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
V
: i,\
NICERjS fW
m m i
'A
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
fjf For use during illness and con-
valescence.
q For weakly and overgrowing
children.
As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
• I?
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
BENGER’S EOOD LTD., Otter Works, MANCHESTER
ENGLAND.
Sender's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc. everywhere.
BIOSV
Food
The Inky Way.
One of the most nerve-racking jobs on earth is
that of the literary critic whose knowledge of litera-
ture is limited. There is one of him on the World’s
News, and he runs a column headed: —
“Will you tell me if I can write poetry?”
The other day a leg-puller submitted to him Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s “To My Sister.” The critic gave
the. poem plain Sheol. After about two sticks of
acrid comment he quoted the well-known lines: —
“Oh, time glides ever quickly by!
Destroying- all that’s dear.
On earth there’s little worth a sigh,
And nothing worth a tear.
What fears have I? What hope in life?
What joys can I command ?
A few short years of toil and strife,
In a strange and distant land.”
: and wound up this way:—
“Why you should call this an ‘Englishman’s’
lament it is -not easy to discover. We do not believe
the typical Englishman comes here because he must,
or that being here he gives way to despondency as
you do. Still less do we believe that he takes to
putting his opinions into such an apology for poetry.
.Your effort is a hotch-potch of borrowed ideas, not
at all well put together, and if you are wise you will
not try to relieve your ‘few short years of toil and
strife’ with verse-making.”
it is language that a respectable paper would hesitate
to use concerning a ballad by George Reid.
* * * *
“T.H.”: How these bards and bardesses do fancy
themselves! Here’s Ella Wheeler Wilcox advertising
a new fifteen-shilling edition of her “Poems of
Pleasure.and Passion.” Three-quarters of a pound!
Does the lady think she is selling herself? Or does
she fancy we are all heirs of Benjamin Guggenheim ?
“Bleeds” Fitehett’s stock has had a bad slump.
In the June Cornhill he made much ado about a
“mystery” of Waterloo—a scaffold or platform from
which Napoleon is supposed to have surveyed the
progress of the battle. Fitchett seemed to think he
was. discoverer and patentee of this “mystery,” and
loftily inquired whether any other writer on Water-
loo had. mentioned it. Whereupo-n various London
papers instantly fell upon him, and remarked acidly
chat there were very few that hadn’t. Sir Walter
Scott visited Waterloo two months after the battle,
and as long ago as that explained that the alleged
scaffold “was built or erected some months befbre,
for the purpose of trigonometrical survey of the
country, by the King of the Netherlands.”
The English Labor party’s first daily newspaper
will appear on London streets on October 8, under
the name of The Daily Citizen. Frank Dilnot,
who was for long Parliamentary Special for the
Daily Mail, will edit, and A. G. AVright, for many
..years publisher of The Times, will manage the new
concern.
Britain also has its trade union amongst press-
men, and the old prejudice against it is rapidly being
scared away, mostly by the wolf at the door. For
nstance, the National Union of Journalists, estab-
I'shed at Manchester six years ago, has a member-
ship of 2312 this year, and it is calculated that
V per cent, of the lot receive less than £l6O a year.
"he roll has increased by about 500 in two years.
“Scribe”: This is the brief story of the reporter
who has just sold his share in the paper he made,
and pocketed £150,000 for it. His name is Jones —
Kennedy Jones, better known to the London press
gang as K.J. He was a reporter when rather more
than 20 years ago he went from Birmingham to a
small job on the Morning, a London halfnonnv dailv.
Soon he was news editor. Next he was chief reporter
on O’Connor’s evening paper, the Sun. The Even-
ing News, another paper, was rapidly descending into
bankruptcy. Jones took it up with Harmsworth’s
capital, and promptly turned a big loss into a profit
of £40,000 a year. That made him solid with
Harmsworth,. who put up the money when K.J. in-
vented the Daily Mail ; and it was for his share in
this paper that the young man has just collected the
nice, dry bit mentioned above.
“Mr. Oeky”: After the slobber which is usually
to be found in the daily press anent the first-night
nerformance of a plav, whether good or bad, it is
like a glass of beer in a desert to come across the
following in a recent issue of a Victorian provincial
“ ‘NOBODY’S DAUGHTER’
was produced at His Majesty’s Theatre last night.
AVe do not like the play.”
That was all. As far as I could see there was no-
thing much wrong with the play, but I admire the
exceptional straightness of this notice, and think
it might well be borne in mind by alleged critics
on some bigger papers.
The police authorities of Victoria are
such a humorless lot that lately, having
accepted as a recruit a man who had not
long since served a sentence for assault and
robbery, and trained him up to the stage at
which he was lit to go on duty, they in-
continently fired him out because he was
recognised by a casual inspector. That officer
spotted him reporting for duty at a suburban
police station, and took him aside and spoke
quietly with him, so that he departed peace-
ably and without fuss. But he afterwards
repented; for a day or two later he turned
up again and demanded his uniform and
baton so that he might go forth and keep
the peace. This time his dismissal was less
courteous than peremptory; which was a pity
in some, ways, because he might have been
an acquisition to the force. An organisation
that can’t recognise convicted thieves when
it already has their photos isn’t likely to
arrest others whom it may not know from
a bar of soap, whereas the novice, having in-
ternal knowledge of Pentridge, would recog-
nise ex-inmates at a glance. Of course, he
might not arrest them, but it is absurd to
expect everything of a policeman.
THE PRIVILEGED PAUPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is no privileged class in England or Aus-
tralia, except the pauper class.— Argus.
How foolish, how fantastic are
The notions that the wealthy man,
When lolling in a motor-car,
Is privileged above his clan.
Harmswoi'th with full experience knows
The poor are privileged alone,
Who need not wear the best of clo’s,
Nor sport a single precious stone
To lure the wretch to murder prone.
The pauper’s privilege is great;
He has no social duties, so
If Royalty receives in state,
How blest is he —he need not go !
If Croesus, say, should give a feast
To last till 10 p.m. to-day,
The pauper need not be a beast,
And eat like mad in that affray—
The happy wretch can stay away !
When Duchesses give crowded balls,
The pauper’s free to sit outside.
The opera, afternoons, and calls
His precious time do not divide.
The starveling can enjoy a bone —
He’s always hungry, mostly dry—
And if of life he’s wear}' grown,
There’s all outside in which to die,
A privilege no cash would buy!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


“THREE WITCHES”
CIGARETTES.
HIGHEST GRADE VIRGINIAN.
DELIGHTFUL and FASCINATING
Price s|"
per 100
(Post Free).
SEND ; TO-DAY !
Mick Simmons Ltd.
The High-Class Tobacconists,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Experience Proves
the Value of
Solomon
Solution
to Horse Owners.
“Sebastopol.
"We have used SOLOMON
SOLUTION fora number of years
for Sore Backs Girth and
Collar Galls—Greasy Heels—
and all kinds of wounds and
sprains in Horses and Cattle
We have great pleasure in re-
commending it, as no stable
should be without it.”
(Signed)
D. Hanrahan & Sons,
Dairymen.
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists.
Stores and Saddlers everywhere
or post free for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
L.R.W.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
Tfcklll'g
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by alf Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229,, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
T jhg
UMC
JNEWCLUB
SHOT SHELLS
Their popularity began with
our grandfathers, and has grown
like an oak for 30 years. Never
equalled i n demand by any shot
shells. To-day, more in demand
than ever before.
If you prefer a smokeless pow-
der shell, get CMC NITRO
CCUB Steel-lined Shells. No
better shells made.
The unequalled dependability
of CMC Shells under all condi-
tions has won for them a world-
wide popularity. Wherever you
find seasoned sportsmen, there,
too, you find CMC’s in general
use. Try them!
Kemington Arms—Cnion
Metallic Cartridge Co.
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian Representative,
P.O. Box 459, Melbourne;
1349, Sydney. [2 ~
hg
Loaded |witK
k I SS k pJM ei 7
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.” The “Stockport
Remedy” for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’
proven efficacy.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
V c
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
traTian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mort<ra<re Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving:
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winehcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox Esq KC. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. ABPERLY, Secretary.
THE NEW
MODEL
No. 597
Snount
Reused
ms
mm
Si
THE NEW FEATURES OF THIS REGISTER.
Nine separate totals in pounds, shillings and
pence of different kinds of transactions and of the sales of different
assistants, in addition to grand total of all cash sales.
Amount of each cash sale made by each assistant is
automatically added into a separate total. Every time a sale is made
the amount is added to the total previously shown for that assistant.
Every penny received for cash sales is recorded twice by
this register—on the adding wheels of the assistant making the sale
and on the “secret” or grand total adder, A printed record giving full
particulars is made at the lime time.
Amount in pounds, shillings and pence received in payment of
accounts is shown on another set of adding wheels. This obviates the
necessity of going through dockets or, cash book to find how much money
has been received on account—the total is ready at all times.
Total value of all goods sold on credit is recorded separately. A
glance will show the amount of credit business for the day or to date
from any stated time. This record enables the shopkeeper to see at once
what his total turnover has been.
Every penny paid out is added to previous total amount of
disbursements.
Think of the advantages of having all these separate totals and of
being able to obtain such valuable information by merely turning a key
and glancing at the records.
THES E ARE SOME OF THE IMPROVEMENTS.
National Gash Register Go. of Australasia
LTD.,
335 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
343 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SO Bourke Street, Melbourne
2SI Murray Street, Perth.
117 a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
y&S
5
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . in the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750
3rd Prize, value £250
2nd Prize, value £4OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglan,
Victoria, for the.modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
CASTRATION
Our Emasculator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. USef-EASY TO USE.
451-
Post Free Anywhere.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
&
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts. .
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain on
them—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain! „ ~
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side ot
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds. . . .....
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
V
flex- is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound
natural ear-drum.
right
down
to
the
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
.you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair.
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night, and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time fos Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I. enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. — Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register it.
EVREN “ST
I NERVE AND BRAIN
TABLETS
Create new Nerve Force, Pure Blood,
Healthy and Normal Action of all the
Vital Functions.
Evren Nerve and Brain
Tablets
are especially beneficial in restoring to
perfect Health and Vigor those who
are weak and debilitated from either
Disease, Worry or Over-
work.
They gently tone up the system, and
are suitable alike for both sexes,
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price 2/- per Box.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE
WRITING (in ink)
by using: your own
Letter Paper,
Invoices. &c.,
with this
Book.
NSC / 200
Patent ZanetiC
copy.no ROOKJ
Cn
You simply insert
your writing: paper in
the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by the
act of writing- a perfect letter and a perfect, copy
(which remains in the hook). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge to your communication.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which pro-
duces this result free, if stamped addressed envelope
sent, from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford Road,
Leicester, England.
One complete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin.
x Bin. letters, for 3/9 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
(Money Order, not P.O.’s.)
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.


Fishing Nets, Bird Nets and Rabbit Nets.
We are the Largest Makers of these Nets in Australia, and can supply you better than any other House.
Kindly note that a FEW DAYS’ NOTICE IS REQUIRED FOR FISHING and BIRD NETS.
When ordering, kindly send sufficient to Cover Carriage.
sdjpug
01
No. 16.
No. I.—Best Fishing Nets, well tanned, fitted ready for use, with Leads, Corks,
and Ropes ; any Mesh from 1| inch to 6 inch—
Depth ... 20 30 40 50 60 80 90 100 200yds. long
6ft 18/6 27/6 35/- 42/6 47/6 65/- 70/- 75/- 150/-each
Bft 21/- 30/- 37/6 47/6 55/- 70/- 75/- 85/- 155/-each
10ft 22/6 32/6 40/- 52/6 60/- 75/- 80/- 95/- 165/-each
12ft 25/- 37/6 42/6 57/6 65/- 105/- each
No. 4. —Best Prawn Nets, well Tanned, fitted Ready for Use, with Leads,
Corks, and Ropes ; 1 i inch mesh—
Depth 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 yards long.
Oft 16/- 24/- 32/- 40/- 48/- 64/- 80/- each
Oft 23/- 34/6 46/- 57/6 69/- 92/- 115/- each
12ft 28/- 42/- 56/- 70/- 84/- 112/- 140/- each
No. 15.—Parrot and Cockatoo Trappers’ Nets, complete for working
6 x 15 20/-each 6 x 20 25/- each
6 x 25 27/6 each 6 x 30 35/- each
12 x 30 42/6 each
No. 16.—Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, fitted, complete with Ropes, Pegs and Sticks.
(Clap or Ground Nets) as illustrated. . ,
5 x 12 21/-each 5 x 15 20/-each
5 x 20 27/6 each 5 x 25 32 6 each
5 x 30 37/6 each
17. —Bat Folding Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, for night use, fitted in long
handles. Size of net, 6x9 feet, 27/6 each.
18. —Rabbit Nets, made from best quality Thread. Small, o/6 doz., 6d.
each; Medium. 8/6 doz., 9d. each; Large. 11/- doz., 1/- each.
Best Hemp Rabbit Netting, 3ft. deep, 3Jin. mesh, 6d. per yd.
We can supply this netting in any length.
No.
No.
Write for a copy of our NEW EDITION ART FISHING TACKLE MAGAZINE-CATALOGUE.
Nothing like it ever before attempted. A REVELATION IN TACKLE CATALOGUES. Gratis and Post Free from
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Dired Importers and Sole Mano.facitu.rers of
the Renowned “Sure Catch** Fishing TacKle,
H “4J2^Hayma f ket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horsemen! Your Opportunity!!
Do YOU want to get MORE
Comfort in your riding?
Do YOU want BETTER VALUE
for your Money ?
Do YOU want to keep right UP-
TO-DATE in Saddles 8 Harness ?
Then send for our New Illustrated
Book, 66 pages, over 120
Beautiful Illustrations
“ Everything for the
Horse.”
gh
The New Puller’s Bridle.
“BETTER FOR YOU!”
POST FREE all over Australia from
The DIRECT SUPPLY SYDNEY SADDLERS.
EDWARD BUTLER & SONS LIMITED,
Actum Manufacturers, 257 George Street, Sydney
THERMOS
In a Thermos Vacuum Flask hot liquids
remain hot for 24 hours, and cold
liquids keep cold for days—in any
climate. Think of the convenience!
Buy a ‘ Thermos' Vacuum Flask—imitations disappoint.
Thermos Flasks (and Jugs) are sold by Stores,
Ironmongers, Jewellers, Chemists, and others.
Wholesale Agents: H. A. Parker & Co., Castlereagh Chambers,
10, Castlereagh St., Sydney .
■if
Will Anprape »" BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German, Italian, Spanish, 1/7
each language; Speeches and Toasts for all occasions, 1/1; Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of Vital Power,
5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweet-
hearts for Lives, 5/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illustrated,
7d. ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Book of Love Letters, 1/-; How to
Woo and Win, 1/1 ; Astrology Made Easy, 1/1 ; Money-Making Secrets,
1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1; Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing
Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act Farces. 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues,
1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1; “How Old Mose Counted the Eggs’’ and
116 Other Humorous Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations,
1/1; “How Sockery Set a Hen” and other Comic Recitations, 1/1;
Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conundrums and Riddles, 1/1;
Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and Clairvoyance,
1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1; How to Teach Animal
Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1;
Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6; New 1912 edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-;. Netv Tricks with Cards,; 1/-;
House Painting, Paperhanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/1; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor,
1/-; Lover’s . Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-.
D W~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
3] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functi< >nal Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, G-iddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating- Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FRUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is ho doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, m innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
g ravings, new BIOS edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating_ the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybooe, 1 s 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor,, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I«-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.'!!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette,-Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor. Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped tiiSsScore, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is,3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦ *
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Odd Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is -d-
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. vv.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
Lound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, ctotii
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secr ets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 10-DAY.


i
wsmm mm
mm
Kf s „ s* I
:% g &
*wrv: *%,
«V
■
>s:ss?3s
wii
-•v« •Khc;
«|, :i!
«nh
;
1
N
il
*
.
88
&
i i
V i
V".
mMmm
RUGBY UNION FOOTBALL COMPETITION.
NEWTOWN RUGBY UNION FOOTBALL TEAM
Champions and Unbeaten, 1910 and 1911.
The Rugby Union Season, ended Saturday, the 17th September, 1910, Newtown having gone
through unbeaten. They are accordingly unconquered premiers, an honor which has not fallen
to any other club since the district system was introduced ten years ago.
It will, therefore, be interesting to the general public, as it was gratifying to the
proprietors of REXONA, to read the following testimonial, given unanimously by every
member of the team. The letter speaks for itself, and shows in what high esteem this premier
team holds the new Rapid Healer REXONA. They write as follows
The Manager, Rexona, Sydney. 1910 LETTER.
Dear Sir, —The whole of our football team are so pleased with the benefit we have derived
from the use of REXONA, the Rapid Healer, that we have unanimously decided to give you a
testimonial regarding same. We have used it for numerous purposes in our training, and
after our matches, both as an embrocation and as a healer for the various cuts and sores
incidental to football.
This has been a most successful year with us, and we certainly feel to a considerable extent
that we owe our success to the great benefit which we have derived from the use of REXONA,
the Rapid Healer.
A number of the boys have also used it for Chilblains, Sore Feet, and Chapped Hands, and
in every instance have found it to be an excellent remedy.
With best wishes for REXONA, We are, very truly yours,
(Sgd .) ERNEST E. BOOTH,
Also signed by the other Members of the Team. Capt., Newtown R.U. Football Team.
1911 LETTER.
Dear Sir, —During the last year we have again been training with your famous REXONA,
and again have we come out victorious in the Rugby Union Football Competition. REXONA
is certainly a grand Ointment, and we think more of it than ever, and it is our intention to
continue to train with this Ointment for the coming year, and hope to again win the pre-
miership. ( Signed ) S. TI. SLATER.
Football players everywhere will find REXONA of thp greatest use in the training-room.
It is invaluable as a rub-down for strained and tired muscles, and will rapidly heal all the
many cuts and bruises acquired in the football field. If you have not already tried REXONA,
send us your name and address, and we will send by return post a sample pot. gratis.
Rexona is sold everywhere in triangular pots at 1/6, or in large pots, holding nearly four
times the mmntity, at 3/-, or will be sent post free, upon receipt of the price, by the
REXONA PROPRIETARY COMPANY, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THE RAPID HEALER
DemonstratorAcentsWakted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating on ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin. Alcohol, Benzine, I istillate, Naptha
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out-
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse < .ears. Sizes2-h.p. to ioo-h.p. One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE.
Write for our proposition to agents and users of power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
gh
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning °/ » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use FIOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The S.S. Merry-go-Round.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The W. T. Appleton is a dredge, and not built for
long voyages, but she was constructed at Rotterdam
for the Melbourne Harbor Trust, and consequently
had to cross the ocean... There were periods of ex-
citement, and many changes in the crew.... “This
packet of ours was like a half-tide rock... She would
not steer to it —I mean every time a sea hit us she
would turn her back to it. . .The vessel rolled her
rails under ; in fact, there were times when the boats
dipped and the sidelights went under...We bumped
into the sea like one wall hitting another.” — Few ex-
tracts from evening, paper, concerning our latest
floating importation.
f INHERE is a savage land far, far away
from old Rotterdam’s workshops and
sedges;
It is twelve thousand miles round the watery
globe, and it’s fond of importing its
dredges.
There the savages sit by the shallows, and
write to the centres of civilisation,
For the punts and the buckets that scoop
up the sand from the doors of eacn
wretched out-station ;
There the headman skims round in a dug-
out canoe, while the war-drums are
throbbing a chorus,
And the lone gospel-bringer just gobbles
quinine, and gets next to a plaster that’s
porous;
There the arroAV that’s poisoned flies out of
the bush when the shadows of even are
falling,
And the sad exiled trader looks over the sea,
and remarks that “the Homeland is
calling.”
There the witch-doctor dances and curses
the tribe, while the holy man’s converts
are hymning,
While the slow alligators slip into the stream
and wait round for a dog to go swim-
ming.
Then the forest primeval looms up in the
dusk, and its shadows are,black on the
river.
“Oh! thou Land of Great Darkness!” the
holy man sobs, and retires to his hut
with a shiver.
Then the dangerous night like a great curtain
falls on the jungle, and all its wild
natives,
They who howl by the shores, of Port Phillip
and buy the good work of the Dutch
operatives.
What must they think in the Rotterdam
yards of the lone island labelled “Aus-
tralia”?
Do they think it an outpost that sleeps up
a creek when not holding a black
saturnalia?
Does the mariner dream when he’s wallowing
south of a tangle of huts or a city?
Does he think of black Venuses crowned
with red blooms? If he does, it’s a
shame and a pity.
For if we have induced him to leave his
Dutch home by our lunatic craze fox-
importing,
And to risk making orphans and widows as
Avell, it is time that the churches Were
snorting.
But the first blast of rage from the people
should come xvho aspire to stand up with
the nations,
For it isn’t much use talking big if some
fools, say a dredge marks our small
limitations. -
But good-luck to the submai-ine Merry-Go-
Round and the various people who
“sailed” her,
To the stokers who juggled with water and
coal, and the various people who bailed
her.
But we trust she’s the last of the foreign-
made scoops to splash out in this
blighted direction,
For there is an old legend this land believes
in and has a fair share of Protection.
n.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.
Dan’s Wedding.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Geoffrey Millar had passed over
four years ago, and left behind him a
large, profitable, going farm, in a
well-watered district, Gippsiana way, in
three equal shares, to his wife and two sons
—so long as they all remained unmarried
and lived together on the share-and-share-
alike principle. But the first one that married
was to lose all interest in the property, and
it was then to be divided fairly between the
remaining two.
It cost him a lot of trouble, but when he
had worked it out at that, he thought he
had hit on a good plan for keeping the
precious property he’d struggled, labc red
and sweated over intact, and he died con-
tentedly leaving his wife and the boys to
work it out.
“Go on, now, you don’t mean it,” *said
Mrs. Millar, a fair, placid, little woman,
giggling.
“I do, every word. I’ll say it again—
you’re the handsomest Avoman around,”
and then old Ben Potter subsided heavily
int~ a chair and wiped his face.
“Isn’t he a flatterer?” she laughed to Ned
Adams, who came in with the kettle filled.
Both admirers were about 60, but Ned,
being thin and wiry, could show his adora-
tion in works.
“Umph !” he said shortly at the sight of
Ben. “I’ll be off.”
“Law, no! You’ll stay and have a cup of
tea.. The boys’ll be in soon —and I just want
a bit of wood,” she hinted sweetly. His face
cleared, and he went to get some.
“This is the most comfortable kitchen
around for miles,” remarked Ben ponder-
ously.
“Well, now T , your kitchen isn’t so bad,” she
laughed.
“But it’s empty, Mrs. Millar, it’s
empty”
She went on laughing and setting the
table, while the two men glared, each .won-
dering why on earth the other didn’t clear
out They were both small farmers in the
neighborhood, and it was well known that
they were after widow Millar, in spite of her
husband’s will.
Presently the boys came in. Dan first,
tall, broad-shouldered and good-looking. his
face smooth, except for a little dark down
over his lip. He was the younger, and his
mother’s darling. lie caught her by the
waist, and whirled her around the room until
she was breathless and panting.
“Ah! Mother, caught again! And where’s
my tea?”
“Dan,” she said with dignity. “Remem-
ber I’m your mother.”
“Which is it to be, Mum?” he whispered.
“Remember, I’ll be best man”
“Get away now,” she said, as red as fire.
“Tea’s ready.”
John came in as the teapot was filled. He
was tall, too, but fair, straight and proper —
a model, sensible young man in every way.
He looked grave when he saw the visitors,
and gazed down his nose as he ate stolidly,
or else read an improving book that lay
beside his plate.
“Dan,” he said, as he rose from the table,
“we’ll manage the milking. You’d better
ride to Burke’s and see about that hay. It’ll
be moonlight.”
Dan flushed delightedly, and mumbled
“All right!” But his mother looked worried,
and a hard glitter came into her eyes.
The party scattered soon after that; Old
Ben and Ned, who had to attend to their
milking, went part of the way with Dan.
Mrs. Millar was left to clear up, but she
was put out and cleaned up with a lot ol
unnecessary clatter.
After a while, John came in to go to bed.
“Mother,” he said, coldly, “do you think
it’s wise, having those chaps around here so
much?”
“Look here, John,” she said, move firmly
than she spoke most times, “you seem to
forget I’m your mother, and quite able to
take care of myself.” '
“It’s only that I want to remind you about
the will.”
“About the will,” she said scornfully. “A
lot you care about us and the will, when you
keep sending Dan on errands to Burke’s, and
know all the time Sis Allen lives on the
main road. You’re just putting temptation
in his way.”
“He’s old enough to look after himself.”
John turned away abruptly, but there was
a grim smile of satisfaction on his face.
Mrs. Millar sat thinking in the big rocker
on the verandah, her brow puckered into an
anxious frown. She waited up for Dan, and
by-and-bye he came home and flung himself
down on the verandah at her feet.
“Mother,” he said, flushed and joyous-
looking. “I’ve done it. Sis and I are to be
married in three weeks.” His mother sighed
helplessly. “What’s the use of waiting?
Bother the property! Let it go to the
deuce. You will be right, anyhow, and I
can work for what Sis and I want. Some-
oody’s got to make a beginning, and John
won’t, if we wait a thousand years, so I
will. We can’t always go living on here
like this —so wish me good luck, motherie
dear,” and with tears in her eyes she kissed
him, and hoped he’d be happy.
She was unusually thougliful all next
day and evening, and startled John by com-
ing to his bedside that night with a candle
in her hand and a big pink shawl around her
head and shoulders, to ask him which he
thought was the best man of the two —Ben
Potter or Ned Adams. He gave his vote for
Ned Adams because he could get about best,
but thought the matter was - hardly worth
disturbing him in the middle of the night
for.
“Perhaps not,” she said gravely, and he
smiled his peculiar smile as she went out
with the candle.
She crept softly into Dan’s room, but
didn’t wake him, and stood shading the light
from his eyes as she looked down lovingly
on him, and then went sadly out.
Next evening, when the boys came home,
their tea was waiting for them; but the
mother had vanished and left a note, saying
that, after all, she’d decided to take Ben
Potter, and by the time they got the note
she would be married, and she hoped they’d
forgive her, but she knew that now they
could get their shares of the money all right,
and do just what they liked in the future,
ana Dan could arrange for his wedding as
soon as he liked. She’d be home in three
weeks, and she did hope they’d all be happy.
Dan went around in a tearing rage.
“I just believe you’ve had a- hand in this,”
he said to his brother. “Can’t you see she’s
just done it for our sakes?”
“Yours, you mean;” said John. “But,
anyhow, she might have done worse—Ben
Potter’s not quite a beggar”
“And if he were, she should have half of
everything I have,” said Dan warmly.
“Well, I won’t have Ben mooning around
my place. I never could stand him,” and
he commenced to plan the division of the
property.
Two or three days went wearily away,
and then Dan began to make excursions to
Burke’s, and John smiled to himself as he
noticed.
At last, Dan announced that he didn’t see
why he should postpone his wedding any
longer. It would take place at once, and if
John agreed, they could have a kick-up in
the big kitchen the night after, and mother
would be sure to be home by then.
John agreed with alacrity. It seemed a
good thing to make sure that somebody was
married.
So it came to pass, and Dan’s wedding-
party provided gossip enough for the neigh-
borhood for the next six years.
The bride, a pretty, shy bush girl, with
dark brown hair and slim little figure, and
her troop of sisters, got everything ready,
had a big bake, and turned the place into a
perfect paradise with green stuff.
The guests came by shoals in carts, traps
and on horseback, laughing and talking, and
soon there were two accordions and a fiddle
to make them merrier.
But the mother hadn’t appeared, and Dan
was a little out of spirits about it.
“I wish Mum was here, Sis,” he said,
catching at his little wife’s hand once as she
passed near him.
“We’ll make it up to her, Dan, and she
can always live with us, whoever she’s
married, if she wants to. But Dan, I’m
glad John hasn’t got to be there, too. I
don’t like him, he makes me feel creepy—he
does, true !” She broke off laughing. “Come
on, they’ll be wondering where we are.”
Just before supper, Dan, in the midst of
a waltz, saw through the dust his mother
standing in the doorway.
(Continued on next page.)


Outdoor Workers
I Find Zam-Buk a real boon*
Outdoor workers, who brave all
weathers in rough work, generally
have skin-trouble of one kind or
another. Perhaps the skin gets
hard, and cracks most painfully
and dangerously; or it may be that
the cold or dirt gets into some
trivial injury, inflammation and
disease almost certainly following.
Cold-sores round the mouth and nos rils
are also common just now, and so are chapped
hands, chilblains, chafing of the face, etc., etc.
Zam-Buk is equally soothing, healing and curative for all such
conditions of the skin, and is consequently a real boon. This pure and
powerful balm takes the “smart” out, kills pain, “cools” inflammation,
and allays itching. Continued use of Zam-Buk ensures perfect healing
with new healthy skin, and “tones” up the tissue to resist cold and
disease. Every outdoor worker should carry a pot in his pocket.
V
THE EVER-READY HEALER.
A WORKER’S PAINFUL WOUND.
Mrs. E. Fisher, of 845 Wellington Street,
West Perth, W.A., says: “My husband is a
bricklayer, and while trimming a brick with
a trowel, he sliced his finger open. The flesh
was laid bare to the bone, and he suffered
a great deal. Some lime off the trowel
got into the wound, which became extremely
sore, and soon inflamed and festered in an
alarming manner. Zam-Buk was applied,
and, after a fortnight’s treatment, the cut
was completely healed, all inflammation being
drawn out, and once more he was able to use
his hand.”
Zam=Buk is invalu-
able for all eczema,
ulcers, ringworm,
piles, bad legs, and
quickly heals cuts,
scratches, burns,
scrapes, knocks and
bruises. Always
keep a pot handy.
All chemists and
stores sell Zam=Buk
at 1/6 and 3/6
per pot.
i
si
RUB
IT
IN H
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
BEST™ BABIES.
. -A
-Vv
IlKj
wm
i
Ti
28pn
P
C <>o
Son
£
Vs
hi
There is no better medicine made for babies
than Chamberlain's Cough Remedy. Its pleas-
ant taste and prompt and effective cures make
it a favourite with mothers of small children.
It quickly cures covighs colds , croup and
prevents pneumonia.
“Mother!” he said, dropping his partner
abruptly. The dancing stopped, and there
was a chorus of exclamations and welcomes.
Sissy was in her arms, trying to explain
everything in a breath, and scolding her for
not coming home before.
“So you’ve come back, mother?” said
John’s clear, cold voice above the din.
The mother looked weary and tired.
“Yes, John, I’ve come back.”
“Where's your husband?” whispered
Dnn eagerly.
“My husband!” she said in the silence
that followed. “I’m not married at all,
Dan.”
John laughed scornfully, Dan looked
stunned for a minute, but Sis slipped her
hand in his and smiled up into his face.
“In too much of a hurry, weren’t you,
Dan?” said John, aggravatingly.
Dan drew his wife to him.
“I don’t think so,” he said sturdily. “We’ll
manage, somehow.”
“Well. Dan, I fully intended getting
married,” said his mother. “Only as Ben
and I were going to the church at Forest
Creek, we came upon John’s wife.”
“What!” thundered John.
“What? John’s wife!” said Dan and Sis
in a breath. “John’s wife. Oh, Johnny !”
“John’s wife,” went on the mother, firmly.
“She was in a lonely house with no help
near, and had just got a fine boy, so I
stayed and nursed her through.”
“I have no wife,” said John, going close
to his mother, “you meddling old”
Dan rushed him away. “Keep your tem-
per, old man.”
“As it happens,” said John, viciously,
“there was a sort of marriage, but it was
done under a false name, so it isn’t legal”—
“So I thought at first,” said the mother.
“But I’ve had vood advice, and that’s all
right. So now, by father’s will, as you
married first, you don’t get anything, and
it all belongs to Dan and me. I’m going
to give my share to your wife and child, and
you can own them or not, as you please.
Dan will have his share, and as for me, I
think, after all, I’ll marry Ned Adams.
Ben Potter’s a bit too slow.’
R. A. KENT.
The Last Prayer of Stumpy
Wiggins.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STUMPY WIGGINS was the saddler of
Wilga Overflow, a dusty little village
on a western stock route. Most of
his trade was with the surrounding stations
and drovers in charge of travelling stock;
and, as Stumpy was a master of his craft,
he was independent of the residents. Con-
sequently, when a very unusual outbreak of
religion struck the Overflow, Stumpy took
no pains to disguise his contempt for the
whole business, and could afford to do so.
The leader of the “revival” was Zachariah
Angwin, a new-comer, who was a shoe-
maker, and who also ran a fancy goods
depot—for shoes last a long time around the
Overflow. * Zachariah was a Primitive
Methodist, full to the brim of religious fer-
vor ; and it was not long before he had most
of his neighbors just as strong on prayer as
he was himself.
The one fly in the ointment was the scoff-
ing of Stumpy, who mocked and derided
Zachariah and his whole following. There
was, as yet, no church at the Overflow, but
the small public hall was rented, and gradu-
ally an enthusiastic little congregation was
gathered together. A feature of the affair
was the Wednesday evening prayer meeting,
a.t which weird testimonies of blighted
lives that had been regenerated, were given.
All aspirants for full membership had to
pass through the prayer-meeting stage, and
several attempts were made to coax Stumpy
to attend “just for once.”
But Stumpy repelled all these appeals
with ignominy, and drove the enemy to a
fresh line of attack. Thenceforward, for
several weeks, prayer was offered for his
conversion. At first the allusions to Stumpy
were made in a guarded manner, and he
was described as “a son of Belial,” an
“erring wanderer,” and so forth; but one
evening the blacksmith broke the ice of con-
vention by alluding to “our undersized
brother in the flesh,” and from that time the
prayers contained full particulars.
It was some time before Stumpy got to
know that he was being publicly prayed for.
One evening, as he was working in his gar-
den, Evans, the butcher, who taught the in-
fant class at the Sunday-school, stopped to
have a word with him. After feeling his
way carefully, the butcher remarked that
they looked forward some day to “having
the pleasure of Mr. Wiggins’s company at
the prayer meetings.”
“I only hope there are no more droughts
till then,” was the discouraging reply.
“At any rate,” continued the butcher,
“we’re prayin’ for you.”
“What?” snapped Stumpy; “praying for
me?”
“Yes. We pray for you every Wednesday
night.”
“Well, of all the damned impudent”
The butcher held up his hands with a
shocked and pained expression.
“Why,” snorted Stumpy, “I’ll have you
stopped. I’ll get one of these mandamuses
or caveats and block you.”
“You can’t,” triumphantly retorted the
butcher. “Even if you could stop the public
prayers, you can’t stop the private prayers
—and the prayer of a righteous man avail-
eth much. Why,” he continued, as a bril-
liant inspiration occurred to him, “I’m
prayin’ for you this very minute.” The
prayer, however, was violently interrupted
by a clod which sent the butcher’s hat fly-
ing, and its owner beat a hasty retreat.
The new development upset Stumpy con-
siderably. He found it difficult to deal with
it effectively. At last, one Wednesday
morning, .the Overflow was electrified by
the news that Stumpy was to take part in
the prayer meeting that evening. He had
confessed the error of his ways to the
blacksmith, and, at the forge, the blessed
tidings was discussed with great fervor.
The attendance at the prayer meeting was
a record one. All the residents were there;
and b -ndary riders and station hands who
had come in to Wilga on business remained
to attend. Several drovers and tank-
sinkers, who refused to believe the miracle
until they should actually hear Stumpy’s
confession, came in, seating themselves un-
easily in the back of the hall. After the
usual preliminaries, Zachariah, who was
“class-leader,” called on Brother —he was
indeed pleased that he could use the word—
Brother Wiggins for prayer. Stumpy, who
was in the very front seat, got slowly to his
feet, and, in a clear, high-pitched voice began.
The prayer opened with an exhortation
to the Lord to put manliness, fairness and
real goodness into the hearts of all present,
and this fairly safe generalisation was
backed up with loud “Amens” from both
men and women. Then Stumpy warmed to
his work and continued: “And dower us
plentifully—for Thou knowes't we need it—
with the gift of honesty and straightforward-
ness. Banish all hypocrisy and double-
dealing and twofacedness. Let not Thy
people, while claiming to he peculiarly good,
do deeds that a blackfellow would be
ashamed of.” (Silence, save for a solitary
“Amen” from the still unsuspicious smith.)
“As Thou dost apparently require persons
to be specially named for treatment, do
Thou mercifully visit Brother Anderson,
and lead him to see the wickedness of bring-
ing home mutton and other goods from
Toola station on Saturday nights for the
use of his own household.” (Dead silence,
except for the anxious shuffling of Brother
Anderson’s feet on the floor.) “And let
Brother Atkins know that, although no
human eye sees him when he sprinkles
water .on his chaff, to make it weigh heavier,
there is One Above who is a witness of it.”
(A suppressed snigger from a drover who
had that morning bought chaff from Atkins. 1
Watch over Thy chosen vessel, Brother
Hopkins, and strengthen him against the
temptation to use second-hand, perished
iron for horse-shoes. Grant, if it be Thy
will, that the dough-scales of Brother Han-
nan shall, ere long, be rightly adjusted, that
Ihy people here may get full-weight bread.”
03 Sl l enc c> save for nervous coughs and
shuffling of feet.). “And give our sisters”
( O Lord, he’s giving them a turn!” in a
loud whisper, from the back) “give them
strength and inclination to abandon scandal-
ising and gossiping, that they may then do
better the work which cometh to their hands
m their own houses. Then,” concluded
Stumpy, lapsing into modern phraseology,
we 11 have a chance of getting peace and
quietness in this God-forsaken place.”
As .he finished, with the sweat in beads
on his forehead, Stumpy walked steadily
down the aisle of the hall and out of the
door, followed by the group of tank-sinkers
and drovers. Nobody else in the meeting
moved until the blacksmith slowly rose, and,
with crimson face, stalked out without a
word being said. The rest followed, and
slipped away quietly to their homes.
Stumpy has not prayed since.
F. R.
A Song of Considerable Gladness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the bush I sit a-dreaming ,
Of the wonder-lights of town;
Happy pavements lush and streaming
With blown feather, lace and gown ;
Thronging caf6s full of laughter,
Tramcars roaring through the night,
Mirrored jewels trailing after
Steamers laden with delight.
In the town I fill with longing
To be done with dust and row,
To exchange the pavements thronging
For green meadows and a cow -;
There to see the broad sun sinking
Low behind the twisted trees,
When the yellow day is drinking
Scented evening in her breeze.
Flies the shuttle of my fancy
To and fro across the 100m —■
In the bush the eyes of Nancy
Set the dullest ways abloom;
In the town, for all the glitter
And the dust, and talk, and guile,
It is hard to feel too bitter
Face to face with Mary’s smile.
“Home, sweet home,” they love to sing us
Till we weary of the tune
Tender moral thoughts they bring us—
Platitudes as grey as June.
Give me, give me bright December
Either in the bush or street
With some girls that I remember
And some more I want to meet.
Flies the shuttle of my fancy
To and fro across the loom—
Mary, Mabel, Jane and Nancy
Set my dullest thoughts abloom.
Give me, give me stout and oysters,
Or a crayfish full of dreams —
Dreams of girls in forest cloisters
Eating pink and frosted creams.
Let me feast on prawns of vision
When the murky hour is late,
Till the empty shells the dish on
Bring me memories of Kate,
Till across the darkened reaches
Of the wild and scented night
Mermaids of the brown surf beaches
Shoot the waves of my delight.
Or amid the wonder-roaming
Of my sleep-unfettered mind
I may see the taxis homing
When the streets are hushed and blind ;
Or, perchance, about my shoulder
I may feel my Mabel’s clasp,
And arising to enfold her
Some policeman’s tunic grasp.
Rides the moon above the valley
Where the sliprails whiten hoar,
And the evening shadows rally
Round the dim and ghostly door;
Something sweet and white a-flutter
Fills the dusk with joy again,
And a hint of cream and butter
Stirs my heart with love of Jane.
Flies the shuttle of my fancy
To and fro across the 100m —
Mabel, Mary, Kate and Nancy
Set the dullest ways a-bloom;
Give me, give me stout and oysters,
Bid the crayfish round me curl,
Till in street or forest cloister
All the world is glad with girl.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.


The
ouse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
•- 7:; v7' \ ;
Vaporiser.
j
o
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
x—lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 —The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
s—lt5 —It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
' FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
Simplest and Most
Reliable.
Nilves
For
Steam, Air and Water.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd., lw s c JSi eS *
Sole Agents,
METZ CARS
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
Car, it will repay you to investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylinder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE,
Sole Agents—
WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Write for Catalogue.
£175
Nett.
BROWN & HELLICAR LTD.,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
PUK®
m
mimt
; r l
Mill
write for full particulars to
ECONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor —Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent street, Sydney, M.S.W.
0
.
. ' '"V ’ •'■■■:
ĵhg==»
Is,
N if
when you see the name “Marshall”
on a Steam Engine. It’s, an abso-
lute guarantee of England’s Best.
Marshall’s have always been fore-
most in improvements, and for the
past GO years have enjoyed, as a re-
sult,
THE LARGEST STEAM ENGINE
TRADE IN THE WORLD.
1 here are cheaper Engines, certainly
—but Marshall’s don’t make them.
4-11 their Engines are made to last.
Light and Heavy Pattern STEAM TRACTORS, OIL
TRACTORS, suitable for Ploughing or Hauling.
Vertical and Horizontal Stationary. VERTICAL
BOILERS, 2to 12 li.p. a Speciality. PORTABLES,
2 to 35 h.p., 1201 b. working pressure, with extra
large Colonial Firebox.
CASH OR LIBERAL TERMS. DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE FREE.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
161 Clarence Street, City.
ENGAGED
*
h
TAXING
j
CHANGIE OF ADDRESS. SPECIAL NOTICE.
THE BUSINESS OF
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
is now conducted at
THE BANKING HOUSE, th 6 ,hs
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
Now and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES —Athlone Place.
E for Empire, the car for great fun,
M for Machine, it’s an excellent one,
P for Popular, the reason we will explain.
I for If you write us to ascertain.
R for Regular equipment we supply,
E for Empire, so why not buy ?
ROY W SANDFQRD,Ltd.
181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
105 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Chalmers and Empire Cars.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Mines, Towns, Factories and
House Lighting.
Electric Generating Sets, Steam, Oil and Petrol Engines,
Petrol Gas Lighting Plants, Storage Batteries, and all
Accessories for Complete Installations.
Full particulars and estimates from
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cemenf (Asbestos) Sheets
at tiie cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwelling's, Theatres, Halls
Warehouses, etc. ’
Timber is clear so is labor. You only require about
Ihree-fou.tbs the quantity of studding and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Ashesi os.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lat h anil plas or.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for rooting.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole importers-
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
“TANCiYE”
Portable Type Oil Engine.
“TANGYE”
Suction Gas Producer Plant
K
‘ CLAYTON and
SHUT 1 LEWORTH ’
Portable Steam Engine.
DALGETY’S
Machinery Department
SYDNEY: Miller’s Point
MELBOURNE: a’Beckett Street
and at
BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON,
TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE
and FREMANTLE.
“TANGYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Gas
Engines and Suction Gas Plants,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Irriga-
tion Plants and PUMPS of all descriptions.
“ ft A N F M
VnII £/
MILKING MACHINES. All the
leading Dairvfarmers are installing
the u GANE.” It is a highly fin-
ished machine and a wonderful Labor Saver.
“CLAYTON c SHUTTLEWORTH”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines,
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps, etc.
THE
I'M
MACHINES
H. P. GREGORY &. CO.
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for
B. F. STURTEVANT CO.
Multivane Fan.
This is the most efficient Commercial Fan in the world. Service tests, under the most
trying conditions, have proved conclusively that this fan will deliver a given amount of air
at a given pressure at an expenditure of considerably less power than other types. It
occupies less space, is correspondingly lighter, and can be built to run at the highest
speeds. We carry Stocks. &
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE No. 18 0.
•v
■■■ ■—■■■ I
LIGHTING.
.—■»
For Country Houses, hotels, Stores, Farms and Townships,
Tb? “PE LAITTE”
AIR-6AS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest Ilhiminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S. W. Government and by the Railway
Commissioners of N.S.W. and Victoria. Thousands
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking: and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small dr Large
Maehin s supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cosj, is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFPTH
St. George’s Terrace,
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Buildings, King:'William Street, ADELAIDE.
Country House and Station
Electric Lighting
Plants.
-Shearing
The “Lister” improvements began a new era in sheep shearing
machine construction—an era of greater convenience anti comfort, greater
durability and economy.
The “Lister” is the keynote to improvements in Sheep Shearing
Machinery. All parts interchangeable with the Wolseley.
Write to-day for Catalogue, and learn wherein the Lister is better.
1
Agents
I)ANGARGEDYE!L(MYOntY
m
FFRENCH’S Patent Process.
/
An Unequalled Success, as Tested by Many Large Users.
Certain Destruction . The Best Process for River Banks .
Sole "Minim—
N. GUTHRIDGL Ltd.
gga
Apply for Booklet.
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY;
