

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R. G. WATKINS AC CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— '
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALV AYS AVAILABLE. .
fd
and others need money quickly and under fair conditi
of financing, and are prepared to make nnnn
To these we extend our liberal system
„ r • at j ow rates i nteresti
>o•*' -i : X : : ,
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO. LIMITED
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street 74, Sydney,
Opposite National
Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane'
50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
m
ms*tend
HOBu^R.T'.
- ft-
PI O NEEft
LEATHER BELTING *V.
■ . 'GIMRANTKKI)
d. C. Ludlowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
g
'
I must have-
ON’S
PineAppk Brand
Tfi
fg
FIRE
RESISTING
SA!
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
fd
gfd
g
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
■
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
With
m _
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER
CORD TYRES
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
9
MALTHOID
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS,
Strength and durability are factors that count in choos-
ing a roof, and when you add to these, absolutely waterproof,
you get a trinity of qualities that MAIiTHOID possesses.
MAJjTHOID Commends itself to all those sensible people
who will not be contented with less than the best. MAIi-
THQID is the best.
TIIE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
fdg
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U-
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
f
Sheep Shearing Machinery should he chosen for its
reputation as well as for its simplicity, durability and
economy.
The well-founded reputation of Moffat-Virtue
Machinery among pastoralists and shearers should be
considered when buying your sheep shearing Machinery.
Write for Catalogue. Also all engines, pumps,
irrigation and water supply plants.
JKoffat-Virtuefi*
ii/iASHIMERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET (Opp. Lands Office),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
uel CPA
The efficacy of HEUDON SPA lies in its
aad cleansing nmnsrtfes.
STARKEY & COLTD „
AGENTS.
The Bulletin
Y01.33.—N0. 1692.]
[Thursday, July 18, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
„„ ROBERTSON’S,
BOOKSELLERS, 238 I'itt stre.t, Sy dni r<
Cntchell and Raymond: History of the Frozen Meat
Trade, 12/6; posted, 13/-
Hobbs’ Recovering the Ashes, 1/3; posted, 1/4.
Turner (Ethel) : Ports and Happy Havens; a narra-
tive of a journey through Europe, 3/6; p., 3/9.
Siissmilch, 0. A.: Geology of N.S.W., 6/-; p., 6/1.
Marvels of the Universe, Vol. 1., a beautifully illus-
trated volume. 821 illustrations, 36 colored
plates 16/- Vol. 11. to follbw. Full details
sent if desired.
21/- r ; p e olte r d, a 2i/3 St ° rmWater Pipe DiSChargeS ’
THE BUSINESS MAN’S LIBRARY. JO volumes. Collections and ihredifn ait
liuyins:, Costs, Organisation, Advertising, Personality, Accountancy. Price,°£S/3/° d ’ 811
ƒh
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHiITE TEETH,
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s
Eumenthol Tooth Powder should be
used for the Preservation of the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and
Antiseptic virtues that have made Eumen-
thol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically,
owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the
Teeth so wonderfully, and wards off decay
as no other preparation for the Teeth
can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists In tins, price 1/6,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD.,
1) 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
HOW TO USE THE POWDER
GS E
THE CONVERDENCE OF THE TWAIN.
(The Loss of the Titanic.)
In a solitude of the sea,
t from human vanity,
And the I’ride of Life that planned her, stilly
couches she.
Steel chambers, late the pyres
Of her salamandrine fires .
Gold currents thrid, and turn to rhythmic
tidal lyres.
Over the mirrors meant
r To glass the opulent
The sea-worm crawls —grotesque, slimed,
dumb, indifferent.
Jewels in joy designed
To ravish the sensuous mind
Lie lightless, all their sparkles bleared and
black and blind.
Dim moon-eyed fishes near
The daintily gilded gear
Gaze querying: “What does all this sump-
tuousness down here?”
Well: while was fashioning
This .ship of swiftest wing,
The Immanent Will that stirs and urges
everything.
Prepared a sinister Mate
. c „ lor her—so gaily great—
A {shape of Ice, for the time far and dis-
sociate.
And as the smart ship grew
In stature, grace and hue,
In shadowy silent distance grew the Iceberg
too.
Alien they seemed to be:
No mortal eye could see
The intimate welding of their later history,
Or sign that they were bent
By paths coincident
Ot being anon twin halves of one august
event;
Till the Spinner of the Years
Said Now !” The Whjch each hears,
And consummation comes, and jars two
hemispheres.
Thomas Hardy (in the Fortnightly.)
Zangwill as Dramatist
Israel Zangwill is the latest literary re-
cruit to the drama. Merely Mary Ann,, de-
lightful comedy as it was, was but a
dramatisation of his story; it did not pre-
tend to be anything but a conventional play.
But he has recently published two dramas,
Ihe War God and The Next Religion
(Ileinemann), that take their place in the
ordered ranks of the modern drama of ideas.
The War God is needlessly written in blank
verse; and Zangwill’s blank verse is merely
chopped kindlings of prose. Curiously, it
is especially in his “poetic” scenes that his
poetry most resembles firewood ; in his com-
monplace dialogue his iambics are not so
disconcerting. The reason is that in our
everyday speech our most conventional re-
marks are in irregular blank verse. A speci-
men will indicate Zangwill’s place as a
modern Milton. Martha, bringing in the
Chancellor’s breakfast, remarks: —
There f
Your Excellence need not roar —I’ve brought
it twice.
Chancellor: I was not roaring—not, at
least, for breakfast.
You should have wakened me at six, as
usual.
Zangwill is a poet, but no poet of words.
The drama unfolded in The War God is a
conflict between three forces, war, anarchy
and Christianity, for the control of the
world. The Chancellor, Torgrim, is obvi-
ously meant to represent the blood and iron
of Bismarck, Brog is the practical anarchist,
. Pomberg the philosophical anarchist, and
Count Frithiof, “a noble, white-bearded
figure in a peasant’s smock and leggings,”
is Tolstoy. Gothia is Germany, and Alba,
England. The Great Chancellor is shown
preparing unceasingly for the war with
Alba; the King is the Kaiser, a weakling
the grim hands of his master. Brog, the
Socialist party, seeing in these increasing
naval and aerial programs the imposition of
heavier taxes upon the workers, kills the
great soldier who represents to the nation
its military prowess. In the revolt that
ensues, the interposition of Frithiof saves
the monarchy. The Chancellor, seeing a
danger to the State in this man who will
not resist evil, allows him to fall into the
hands of the revolutionaries, who, in a scene
of some dramatic effectiveness, kill him:—
Jt
Brog : Hush ! Prisoner, you are condemned
to death.
I rithiof : My brother —so are you and every
man.
Farewell, then, brother shadows, till we
meet....
Ah, comrades, so you think
lhat lead or rope can make an end of
me
On such a night of stars ?. ...
hiRST Revolutionist (throws down gun):
I cannot shoot!
Brog :To Hell! White-livered skunk !
lirst Revolutionist: This is no man!
Brog: God damn you! Take your gun!
(The felloio sullenly and with trembling
hand picks up the gun).
All ready, men? Present arms! Fire!
{The volley rings out sharply. For an
instant all is obscured by smoke, then as
it clears away, Frithiof is seen standing
with the same serene , look of love. )
The Red Page
Omnes : Not dead :
First Revolutionist: I said this was no
man !
(raging) : .You bat-eyed brutes,
io miss that size of target at ten
paces!....
Reload, I tell you!
All the Firing Squad; No.
Brog : . To Hell! I’ll show you
ft he is powder-proof, you——
(fires almost point-blank at JfrJthiofs
heart. Frithiof stands serenely as be-
fore.)
Christ!
(After a moment of awe, Brog pulls
him self furiously together).. .To Hell!
Some traitor-swine has drawn my
ball! Great God!
There’s still five bullets in the curs&l
tiling.
(Jiis finger trembles as he cocks the
pistol.)
You’ve set my nerves on edge, you
hi tliy——
(1 he pistol slips from his grasp, he
totters back on the mound, wiping his
brow and muttering hoarsely.)
. Blast it!
That pistol picked off Hoik at fifty
yards.
Konrad (strung up and frightened lest
rntmof escape)
So these are they would baptise me in
blood!
This comes of having no philosophy.
Clearly each lout, priest-ridden, super-
stitious,
Fired wide, relying on his neighbor’s
bullets.
(The firing squad look guilty.)
And you—you fired point-blank into his
Bible!
(Brog stares at Frithiof.)
Give me the dagger—daggers cannot
miss !
I’ve never killed, but kill I must to-
night,
If but to vindicate Philosophy.
{lie lifts the dagger which he has
snatched from,. Brag’s belt. Frithiof
looks serenely at him, eye to eye. The
dagger drops to the around with a little
thud. Noma springs forward and
snatches up Brog’s pistol.)
Norna : And these are men !
Konrad (In an instantaneous ecstasy of
belief) : No. no, we cannot kill him !
Norna : I can and must, alas! since Fate
has doomed me
To execute the judgment.
(She fires. Frithiof staggers, mortally
wounded.)
Konrad (sobbingly supporting the body) :
_ Master!
Frithiof : Peace!
Only my body dies ; my spirit is with
you
Always....
(Hedies.)
Naturally, Frithiof being dead, he becomes
first a martyr, and then a god. Frithiof
had said to the Chancellor—
Brog, you and I —we three—contest the
world.
Let the King mark which shall the
strongest prove,
Brog lawless, you with law, or I with
love.
And in this three-sided contest it is the
dead Frithiof, the founder of a new Tol-
stoyan religion, that conquers. Well, Tolstoy
is dead; but there are no portents of the
birth, or rebirth, of the doctrine of non-
resistance as a world-wide religion. The
drama, is less convincing in its conclusiop
than in the broad drawing of its three sym-
bolic characters.
In The Next Religion Zangwill returns to
prose. This striking drama, dealing with
Christianity in a serious and sincere way,
was, naturally enough, prohibited production
by the London censor. The theme is the
disillusionment of a clergyman with the
official Christianity he is paid to preach.
He is reaching out to the next religion. For,
as he says, “The Church seems like one of
those island ports from which the sea has
receded, toie tides of Truth beat elsewhere.’’
The next religion will be larger than
Christianity, not smaller, harder, not easier.
It will be the religion that accepts the Rev-
elation of Science. If science is its enemy,
it must love its enemy. And its God is the
only one that has never been accepted—the
God of Law. “The God who will send
tuberculosis even through the communion
chalice.” In the next religion there will be
no prayer in the sense of asking for favors.
Or harvest thanksgivings. “As if Heaven
scared the crows and counted the ears of
corn!”
“People prate of the peace of Nature.
Every square inch of Nature is packed with
struggle. and sorrow. Oh, when I think of
those blind, wriggling creatures laboring on
our soils, bringing the fine mould to the top
and making passages for the rains and dews,
I reel it is to the worms we should be sing-
ing our harvest hymns....We talk as if
scrofulous babies dropped from Heaven, and
poverty and disease were providential oppor-
tumties for prayer. But just as the
millions who died of yellow fever might
have been saved, if, instead of look-
ing to the skies they had wiped out
the mosquito, so we might have cleaned
out our swamp of misery, and evil centuries
ago it we hadn’t looked to some gigantic
genie in the clouds to do all our dirty work
and give us golden floors to squat on into the
bargain.”
Holding such views, the parson gives up
his living and sets out to preach the next
religion. His wife, who refuses to give up
the conventional faith, accompanies him, for
her husband is in danger of going blind,
and is in all practical matters as helpless
as a baby. He writes his boob, and, neces-
sarily, starves. His wife’s father, the
Bishop of the Soudan, arrives, and the par-
son points out to this scandalised old man
that the Christianity that the bishop is
preaching in Africa is “the next religion”—
to the Africans ; .also, that if the Lord died
to save the Africans from superstition, it
has taken 1000 years for the news to reach
them. The bishop had bought up the edi-
tion of the book, but one copy falls into the
hands of a millionaire gunmaker, who offers
Ins cliecjde-book to the parson with instruc-
tions to go ahead and build his new church.
In the third act we see, 10 years later, the
next religion in full blast, housed in a gor-
geous cathedral, and with all the pomps and
vanities of the religion it has superseded,
ihe founder lias become blind—and it is
hinted that it is this fact, and not the
religion, that is responsible for its throngs
of adherents. The main belief of the next
religion is that there is no immortality. The
blind founder’s son is murdered by a fanati-
cal Christian; and the mother,’ who has
been converted to the new faith, relapses
in her grief to her old beliefs.
Mary: Le*t them hear a woman for once,
lou and your dried-up thinkers. I tell you
that they, the great live world, will never
take your religion, and that even if you
deluded all male humanity, the mothers
would rise up and tear it to pieces.
The blind father leaves his dead boy to
go out to preach that lie is dead.
J*
Interesting, because Zangwill provokes
thought. The last act reads like a satire on
all religions; but the probability is that
Zangwill did not mean it so. Incidentally,
he makes one hit at his own race. “The
.Tews don’t worship Christ,” lk says, “but
they worship Christians.”
The Australian Novel
There is a type of novel that looks like
becoming the typical Australian novel—at
lesist, it /is the sort of fiction that could not
be, or lias not hitherto been, produced by
any but Australian writers. In this type the
hero is a grim, hard-bitten, cynical, quix-
otic young—very young—man, a light lover
of many women, an incorrigible rover who
settles into matrimony with a laughing
grimace. He is placed in a plot of swift
adventure, and has a soul that even marriage
cannot chain. His story is told with a
vivacity, an elan, a frankness that to the
English reviewer seem forced; but the
sense of life as a thing to be vividly and
whole-heartedly lived is always there. In
this class the novels of Randolph Bedford
and of G. B. Lancaster set the standard,
possibly deriving their inspiration from
Marcus Clarke, but more probably they are
the natural outcome of life as lived in this
Commonwealth and this Dominion. And ours
is not the English writer’s way,, nor yet the
American’s. It is solely this sense of care-
less optimism, this gospel of energy, that
make these works worth reading. ' Subtle
psychology has no place in this swift, care-
less etching of the essential, nor is there any
time for the artistic elaboration of a. plot.
The Little Blue Devil, the first novel of
Dorothea Mackellar and Ruth Bedford
(Rivers, per George Robertson, Sydney), is
true to this type. The hero begins as a wise
youth of 10 to earn his living. At 16 his
astounding experiences have made him a
man. Surely never before lias a hero been
given such a gorgeous tapestry of adventure.
But the plot is of the shoddiest texture. The
outcast wins through—to prove himself the
heir to an English title. The usual fictitious
and fictional misunderstanding prolongs his
courtship of the heroine. As she is his
cousin, and believes herself to be the heiress
of the title that should be the hero’s, lie
decides to obliterate himself by an elab-
orately planned death in Australia, whereas
all he need have done was to take up his
title and overcome the girl’s scruples to
accepting any of the money that she feels
is his by making her an ample allowance.
But, no; the authors intend him to marry
her, for the desired happy ending. In the
end—this much may be credited to the
authors—lie does it almost under protest.
Certain English reviewers have denied that
any boy of 10 could be so grown up as the
authors make him. The present critic finds
that objection—as applied to an Australian
youth—invalid. Of course, he was not an
Australian youth, but the authors are Aus-
tralian. The novel is readable chiefly for
the qualities above noted that characterise
tins, the only type of Australian novel that
seems to be standardising itself as ours.
Poetry, Pubs and Spuds
Edward Malone is a publican and a poet.
Rhymes by Edward Malone (with portrait)
tells in a foreword liow from the publican
a poet was created. “Edward Malone’s
first rhymes in which he defends himself
and his brother publican, Mr. J. Wallis,
against the attack of a malicious neighbor
who tried to prevent the public from calling
in either of the hotels, by a public notice in
the following words, posted on a post in the
main roads, ’You travellers who are in want
of drink call in tb my place and you shall
have, plenty of water during the day, irre-
spective of persons.’” Enough to make a
poet out of the dullest publican ! And Ed-
ward Malone, the poet, arises
But of his water you pertake.
Your head and belly will surely ache....
Since above invitation its strange to say,
The water from his well has gone away. ~ .
But call into the “White Swan,”
Where you will be treated like a man,
True hospitality you will find,
And cooling drinks to please the mind....
Good Scotch whisky arid Dublin, stout.
Which will cause the quietest man to howl and shout.
Or a glass of brandy when you’re weak.
Which lias caused the dead to rise and speak.
Not forgetting Perkin’s beer. ...
Now I am olf to Pernares’ hill,
In Omer’s bottle to dip my quill,
Get one clear spark, to guide me along,
And when I return to compose my- song.
My name and,surname and where I dwell,
Is Edward Malone, White Swan Hotel.
But enough of the malicious water pur-
veyor. Our bard has mightier subjects for
his epic :
In the following lines I will let you know,
A case that was tried not very long ago;
By reading- it well, it will plainly show/ 1
Plaintiff Malone versus Barnes -and Co,
It was about a sale of potatoes by- the
plaintiff poet to Barnes and Co. through an
agent, or vice versa, or thereabouts: — : ■ f .
His worship said just state what you know,
Did you buy the potatoes for Barnes and Co. ..
I Mr. Black take the book and state what you know
Regarding the potatoes . of Barnes and C 0...
All through, with elaborate art, this lyri- .
cal refrain of “the potatoes of Barnes and
co. recurs. But the poet is not appreciated
in his own country, and :
I had to send to Brisbane to get this inserted
As by both the local papers I am deset’ted,
But Malone’s muse is not confined to pubs
or spuds. He has poems “written on my
old horse Sandy, which got into Mr. Craw-
ley’s stockyard,” “Applying to the Shire
Council for repairs to road leading -to his
farm,” “A reply to a bill from the Secre-
tary of the Farmers’ Milling Co., Warwick
(‘Mr. E. Malone ; Dr. to Farmers’ Milling
Co. Sir, —A cheque would oblige’),” which
proved a boomerang, as the secretary replied
in verse of almost equal poetic fluency ; and
a poem beginning
Sir, with regard to the dividing fence....
It will be seen that Edward Malone is
certainly the best poet in Yangan.
Entrants for the guinea prize offered for
the list of 10 books, Australian or written
about Australia, suitable for the starting of
an Australian shelf in a home library, should
notice that in each case an individual book
should be mentioned. Thus Daley’s pderns
include “At Dawn and Dusk.” as well as
“Wine and Roses.” The particular book
must be mentioned. The competition closes
on J uly 31.
Island Reminiscences, by Thomas Trood
(McCarron, Stewart and Co., Sydney), is a
book that, like the dictionary, contains a deal
of scrappy information. This collection of
recollections by the British Vice-Consul at
Apia, Samoa, includes descriptions of the
various islands of the Pacific, reminiscences
of “Some Well-Known Sydney Men.” Bully
Hayes, the “Calliope” Hurricane, R.L.S.,
‘Samoa under the Berlin Treaty,” and in-
teresting accounts of Samoan beliefs and
customs. The book is throughout readable ;
but it is less history than the material for
history.
mei 'i can “best sellers” are made,
Book Supply Co., Chicago, publishers
'Of Me Vi inning of Barbara Worth, by 11. B.
Wright, at the Dresent time the best selling
book in America, blatantly give the show
away by advertising the fact that its suc-
cess is chiefly due to dollars. “Our cam-
paign of advertising will continue with an
additional expenditure of more than $20,000
during the present year—l9l2—and The
Winning of Barbara Worth will continue
the Best Selling Book in All the World, be-
cause, it is the National Epic and the ideal
American novel.’" But a book cannot
always be a best seller? Can’t it, if you
have the dollars to spend? The publishers
believe that money shouts. “Our Advertis-
ing Campaign Next Year will be another
record-breaker, with the enormous expendi-
ture of approximately $lOO,OOO. The Win-
ning of Barbara Worth will still hold its
place over every other ‘best seller.’ With
colors flying and liberal advertising space
Barbara Worth will continue to greet you
in the year of 1914.”


CrthoayftQcd&asfije
Horderns* for Furniture Satisfaction.
Anthony
MORRIS CHAIR , with Adjustable
Back, Frame in Solid Oak or Fumed
Maple. Strongly made. A most com-
fortable chair. Upholstered in
Pegamoid, £4/5/“
In Real Hide, ;£4 19/6.
35 s
a
PT 1
’"TT'IT
7#
THE LEYLAND DEDROOM SUITE,
Fumed Oak. Price, *lB/10/- Fumed Maple, £l9/10-
DIVAN EASY CHAIR
Strongly made. Upholstered
Cretonne. Stuffed Kapok.
of new
design,
in Art
7W*
r
THE
HENDON BEDROOM SUITE.
TTT P HFNDON BFDROOM SUITE is made in Solid Oak and Fumed Maple. It comprises
for ham^ii^^sp^ace Ch&val^OlL^^CHE^Tf'fltt'ecf^itif'S.rge o cHitre r^m)r^ n 24 r x e iB,
9»%sjr“
In Solid Oak, £l5/10/- ; in Fumed Maple, £l6/10/-
I SSSI
i?*V
THE WENTWORTH BEDROOM SUITE,
of a 4ft all hanging space Wardrobe, fitted with two bevel mirror doors each
A.U x Ift 3in and roomy drawer underneath; also useful Dressing Chest, 3ft. 6m. wide,
Scented on casters and fitted with bevel mirror, 26in. x 22in ; fitted with double-
divided cupboards, 2 drawers and towel rails, rouge marble top and art tile back. We als
include two good quality cane-seat Chairs with this Suite. Price in Best Quality
Queensland Maple, *3l/10/- Ditto, in Oak, *3l.
pPEf
ass.^-
vbc
COMBINATION WARDROBE and
TABLE. 4ft. wide, with bevelled mirror in door
and on toilet table.
TOILET
of wardrobe
Finished Walnut, £B/10/-
Fumed Maple, £l2/2/G
THE BUREAU WARDROBE
has been designed
for men folk who
are Darticular with their clothing. It is wonderfully spacious,
and will meet the requirements of the most fastidious dresser.
The top drawer is fitted with slide divisions for Shirts Pyjamas,
etc and Zide the two folding doors are four sliding trays
to hold suits of clothing; also three drawers for collars, socks
and"ties. 81 'The large bo&m drawer is divided tor Hats., Boots.
Height, 4ft. 5m.; width, 4ft. 2m., depth, ztt.
In PicKed Queensland Maple, £1472/©•
In Figured Oak, £l4/5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Furniture is made
at Anthony Horderns’ Cabinet Works
by the highest skilled white Australian
labor, and sets a standard for artistic
excellence and faithful construction.
1
%
m
w
I
r
""
m
s
F=H
THE HARLAND BEDROOM SUITE,
Comprising sft. H.ogi.j „ T “S g? o3Sd
Mirror; 3,t. ™f, “s'£cß .^11““;' toft SLe-tsd Choir,
In Solid Oak, £32/10/- In Fumed Maple, £33/10/-
w
1
w
cn
m
THE WARATAH BEDROOM SUITE,
Comprising sft. WARDROBE, with two hanging and Cupboards and
Oft- nRESSTNG TABLE; 3ft. 6m. rouge marble-top WASHSIANU, witn new art
3ft. 6m. JESSING 2 GWs
In Solid Oak, £3l/15/- In Fumed Maple, £32/15/-
Drawers;
tile back,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace E,mp origin,
Brickfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Jr- I
r
r-
K
IT ’
fH
ll l ' U
/’
Insure Your
Anvil Free!
Buy an “All Steel’*
Anvil and secure indefinite
anvil insurance.
“All Steel” Anvils are
forged from one solid piece of
steel, and the patented process
of hardening and tempering make
it impossible for any part to
crack or fly off.
Not like ordinary two- or three-piece “built-up” anvils,
which have horn and tail welded to the body, to crack and fly
off at any time.
Not like the “built-up” anvil, the face of which is laid on
separately, and often cracks and sinks.
The most interesting feature is that, whilst “All Steel”
Anvils aie insurance against these evils, they cost less than the
inferior, “built-up” kind.
14 to 281 b.
Bd. lb.
28 to 361 b.
sd. lb.
57 to 8711.
4^d.lb.
881 b. to 4cwt.
32/- cwt.
We have a
Book of Tools
and want to send it Post Free to every
artisan interested in economy. 256 pages,
over 2000 illustrations. Write to: —
■ I H
“Machinery and Too! Merchants,”
554-66 (Si 582-88 Collins Street,
Near Spencer Street, MELBOURNE.
F
d
rj|
m
*\
tiV'W.v
feaf
%
#1
t
Brain-fag
When the delicate mechanism of your
brain is disorganised by worry and over-
work, so that you are incapable of con-
centrated thought, “Wincarnis” will
speedily revitalise your -poor, over-strained
nerves, and give you a delicious feeling
of renewed mental energy that will enable
you to think quickly—plan effectively
—and act promptly. No man can think
with a worn-out brain. But here is
“Wincarnis,” ready at a moment’s notice
to stimulate your brain, nourish your
starved nerves, and give you back your
old-time mental activity.
Anaemia.
The pallid complexion—the transpar-
ent skin—the lustreless eyes—tell, only
too plainly, the story of insufficient blood.
But “Wincarnis” will soon give a bright-
ness to the eyes, and coax back the roses
to the cheeks. And as you take your
“Wincarnis” you will find yourself, day
by day, getting stronger—brighter —
healthier —as the grandly nourishing
qualities of “Wincarnis” create a fund of
rich, red blood and send it dancing
through your veins, to carry health,
strength and nourishment to every part
of the body.
Sleeplessness
Only those who suffer from sleepless-
ness realise the intense misery of the in-
cessant tossing to and fro—the agonising
wait for daybreak—and the feeling of
utter exhaustion in the morning. Sleep-
lesness is due to a disordered state of the
brain cells, therefore, although the body
may be thoroughly worn out, the brain
is in such a highly-strung condition that
sleep is impossible. A wineglassful of
“Wincarnis” taken just before retiring
will soothe that highly-strung brain, and
ensure you an uninterrupted and sweetly
refreshing night's rest.
Convalescence
In prolonged convalescence after a
severe illness, the effect of “Wincarnis”
is almost magical. From the first, and
after each succeeding wineglassful, “Win-
carnis” imparts a delicious feeling of
renewed vitality. And day by day the
patient gets stronger and brighter, the
appetite improves, and the blush of health
returns to the cheeks. A wealth of rich, red
blood is created which circulates through-
out the body, and rebuilds the worn-out
tissues, revitalises the weakened nerves
and braces up the system so that the
whole body pulsates with renewed life.
The above are but four of the many cases in which “Wincarnis” is of such inestimable value as
blood-maker and a recuperative tonic. This is why so many thousands of people who at one time
from Debility, Depression, Ansemia, Sleeplessness, Brain-fag and Nervous disorders are to-day
joyment of vigorous health. Will you try just one bottle of
l nerve food, a
were suffering
n the full en-
•e^aiik
m
ĥfd
AN ALMOST MIRACULOUS RECOVERY.
Mr. Stott, of 8 Crosby Street, Holbeck, Leeds, wrote us that his aged grandmother was down with Chronic
Bronchitis and a Weak Heart, and so ill was she that all the relatives were summoned to the bedside. She ex-
pressed a wish for “Wincarnis,” which was immediately procured, and within half an hour of taking the first
dose of “Wincarnis” the struggle for breath ceased, and from that moment she began to mend. Five days after-
wards she was able to get up and sit near the fire.
Wincarnis is sold by all Wine Merchants, Licensed Chemists and Grocers.
Australian and New Zealand Depot: FASSETT & JOHNSON, 5 and 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W*
COLEMAN & CO., LTD., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENG.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Croson”: Got some information that shocked me
lately on the profits of the furniture-selling pro-
fession. A friend of mine, a saleswoman in an estab-
lishment in Melbourne, was informed by the firm on
the eve. of her marriage that she could buy what
articles she required at cost price, plus 20 per cent.
She didn’t think much of the concession, but a
casual inspection with her “boy” showed them it
was something worth having. The firm’s furniture
is “white”-made, and has a good name, and a sale
was on at the time, consequently she nearly lost her
breath when told she could have a bedroom suite
marked at £l6 price £lB 18s.—for
£ll 55., and a dining-room suite, allegedly cheap at
£25, for £l5 10s. After that she worked a few
points for her friends, and before she stopped the
firm must have thought she was wedding a million-
aire. Now, what I want to know is—lf those reduc-
tions represent cost price, plus 20 per cent., what
sort of a div. does the furniture man make on his
turnover when he sells to the general public?
“Vic.”: G. F. Sydenham, talking about the waste
in Otway Forest, told the Farmers’ Conference at
AVarrnambool (Vic.) something of more interest and
value than farmers’ conferences usually hear. It was
estimated, he said, that a thousand square miles of
this forest had contained £64,000,000 worth of tim-
ber. An expert’s valuation of only 1500 acres put
the figure for that small patch at £402,552. Much
of the wealtli has been sacrificed, but by no means
all. Thus a settler had received over £7OO royalties
from 25 acres, and from a. single tree as much as £9O
had been got. Even a burnt blackwood log had
realised £25. Last year the timber sent from
Beech Forest station was 10,246 tons. The greater
part of the land was, it was agreed, very little use
for agriculture, which was possibly one reason why
the conference unanimously passed a resolution
against any further alienation of this valuable vege-
table garden.
It came out during the hearing of a police-court
case in Adelaide the other day, that opium has risen
in price from £3 per oz. before its prohibition to
£l2 or £l5 to-day. Also, that when a police raid
takes place, the Chow nowadays, simply smears the
surplus stock on his garments, from which it can be
scraped afterwards and used.
“Artarmon”: Recently, a most harmless young
typewriting female trudged round Sydney looking
for an office to hire. Sundry suitable places were
located, but in every case the agent made some
excuse and refused a lease. The thing grew so mono-
tonous that male business friends made inquiries, and
learnt that there was a general determination not
to let such premises to lone females in the type-
writing business. Flossie, it seems, had assumed a
new disguise, and the agents are not taking any
risks for a while.
“Gordon G.’s” plea in rebuttal: Have heard the
Law called a hog, a crocodile, a shark, an alligator
and so many other varieties of predatory that
I grow bewildered as to what its proper place in the
menagerie really is. And now The Bulletin pro-
ceeds to refer to it as a python! All the above
epithets have this in common, that they are intended
to express the tremendous capacity the Law has for
raking in costs and accumulating wealth. Yet here
is what the president of the AUc. Law Institute was
able to say the other day: “To those high-minded
persons who, in effect, regard a lawyer as a successful
licensed plunderer, and to those fond parents who
contemplate placing their intelligent offspring in a
highly lucrative position, I would recommend a
study of the last available of the State Income Tax
Commissio'ner’s reports. It will there be found
that out of all the various taxpayers (srouped bv
the Commissioner under 12 separate headings), the
legal profession comes eighth on the list, with only
four below it. I may add that, so far as I know,
solicitors are the only persons in our State who are
compelled to work under Wages Board determina-
tions without any representation, and that such
Boards fix the maximum and not the minimum
wage.” Call the Law an Ass if you will; in that
case we chasers of costs will have little quarrel with
you. But demonstrably it is no shark. The shark’s
leading characteristic is that it manages to be the
best-fed marine inhabitant till it passes in its
checks.
“Harrison 0.” (from Melbourne) : Don’t know any-
thing about the servant girls who are being im-
ported of late, but I do know that the north side of
Collins%reet is becoming uncomfortably crowded at
night. My friend, “The Parson,” tells me that it is
a street of strange faces and unfamiliar perfumes.
“I don’t remember meeting you before, my dear,”
observed “The Parson” to a lady who had stopped
to pass him the time o’ night. “No,” was the reply
in broad Yorkshire, “I just coom off th’ boat this
morning.”
“Gil”: Many good Christians will be pleased to
hear that a Melbourne tailor was recently very badly
bilked, besides missing gaol by only the breadth of
his needle. One day a plausible person, who looked
like a tourist, drove up to the tailory in a buggv.
It was a neat conveyance, and the horse could scarcely
be detected through the gloss of the elegant harness.
The tourist ordered an expensive suit, and casually
remarked that in the course of the next few days he
would be going up-country for a week or two. He
would allow any kind and reliable person with a
stable or a good yard the free use of the horse and
the shay in return for the animal’s foraged The
tailor said he wouldn’t mind if he did. So the prad
and cart were handed over to his care. A few days
later the tourist called again and collected his suit,
lie hadn’t his cheque-book, but would settle when
he returned from the country. Naturally the tailor,
with a whole vehicle and horse for security, told him
not to worry over a little matter like that. During
the next two days the wheels revolved like old Henry.
But then a man with big feet got in the way, and
wanted to arrest Snips for stealing the horse and
vehicle, which had been hired from a livery stable
for half a day. It took a fearful lot of good breath
to convince the man with the big foothold that the
tailor wasn’t a receiver of stolen property, but a
mere mug who had been rooked for a suit of clothes.
The tourist and his expensive suit are still up-
country.
“D.”: Re the tired Australian. It was a young
door-and-sash maker from Liverpool who was telling
me what he thought of things down here. “I was
a tip-top tradesman in th’ old country,” he said.
“I’m nowt here. My door’s as good as the Australian
fellow’s; but, dang it, he maks two!”
THE SPOILERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
: The impassioned appeal of Mr. C. R. Scoville
aroused their missionary zeal to such effect that few
of the unregenerate wno remained at the closing pro-
ceedings of the service were able to escape their im-
portunity.—Daily paper on the“ Yankee missioners.
Aye, brethren, ’twas a glorious sight!
Like Lions of the Lord in wait
We swooped with practis’d zeal, to bite
The trembling Unregenerate.
All doors were sealed: we girded loin:
Shrill pleas for mercy were in vain;
The patter of unceasing coin
Dripped on collecting-plates like rain!
Weird elders garnered cash in pots:
Spoil’d Atheists tottered on their limbs;
The bitter wail of plundered Scots
Drowned in the blare of Sankey’s hymns.
And when at last we cleared the aisles
I guess we’d spoiled old Egypt’s hoard !
We sat ’mid myriad glittering piles
Of filthy dross and praised the Loard.
Ah, friends! such Dividends reveal,
E’en in these Unregenerate days—
That on true missionary, zeal
There are no flies. It pays—lT PAYS!!
VICTORIA.
TINKOFF D. PROFFYTZ.


AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
MACHINES
mma
i m i
Hj uLijjJ
lj maj
m
t &&*ssP{ii '?:i.
mm.
PRODUCE AN
ABSOLUTELY
PERFECT
LICHT.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons
TWO OF MANY TESTIMONIALS.
Trawool, 4th July, 1911.
Dear Sirs, —1 am pleased to inform you that the Aerogen Safety Gas Machine purchased
from you nearly 12 months ago is working very satisfactorily and giving excellent results.
I find it very economical to run, and, on account of the automatic working, entails very
little attention.
The light is a most excellent one, and the gas is perfectly safe.
I shall be pleased to recommend it to anyone requiring an up-to-date light.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) h. a. McKenzie.
Halifax, Queensland, 17th August, 1911.
Dear Sirs, —The Aerogen Gas Plant which I purchased from .your firm early in the year
has been giving thorough satisfaction, and I am perfectly pleased with it.. ' . • " „
1 have found Aerogen a most brilliant light, and, in my opinion, superior to all others.
The great charm with Aerogen is its cleanliness, there being no refuse or offensive smell,
and for cheapness it surpasses any other light I have ever used,
lia-ht does not take the place of Acetylene in the near future.
Wishing your firm lots of success with these machines.
Yours faithfully,
11U ICIUBC yjl UMWIBI.V,
I shall be surprised if this
(Sgd.) O. T. LANGLEY.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BUR
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS:
SYDNEY* AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
O i L'lN —, I . AL.l\WUlwl>l <o.rw (BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY.. LTD.. 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON : W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA : A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Phllp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
f'Ringing for More! \
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test *_ r time
L Over 70 years' success.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS.
es
jjmqMc
c
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for “OWBRIDGE’S”
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL, ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
Local Starts and Chemists sell it.
If adt byF. C.CALVERT & Co., Manchester, EnO»
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
TO-DA Y
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
4Sllenburgs Foods
Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., London, eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A.L.” (Motor Car Acetylene Generator)
gd
as supplied to his Majesty the King, and used by him at the Indian Durbar. No
smell, no danger, no fouling, no failure, no adjustments, no rubber parts. A sys-
tem on simple and ingenious lines. One charging of carbide can be used for
months. The London ’Bus Company scrapped all their old generators, and installed
the “A.L.” Generators after most severe tests against every other make. Another
practical testimony as to its extreme simplicity and reliability has been given bv
Captain Scott, who has provided himself with a complete outfit of the A.L.
Generators for the lighting of his expedition to the South Pole.
lib. Size, £4 10s. 21b. Size, £6 15s.
Write for pamphlet, giving particulars and description.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
\
r KEEP
HYCOL
IN THE HOME
Use It to-day
and every day.
It is non-poisonons<
18 times stronger
than Carbolic.
Agents t
JN.S.AV. Agents:
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St., Sydney.
PROTECT YOUR-
SELF AGAINST
DISEASE.
MQ ST
P9WERFHL
IT
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
■otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A, MESTON, Local Director.
Draw&eLine
at the
Ink Bottle
irf
It’s
the one
thing which
links thousands
of Good Folk to
the Middle Ages. Get
Watejrrnan’s
(Ideal]
FoufitamPen
and show your appreciation of the age
in which you live. Over 20,000,000
Waterman’s Ideals in use, and upward*
ot a million purchased every year. Nib*
to suit all hands ; every pen guaranteed.
In 4 Styles—Regular and Self-Filling.
12/6 and upwards; Safety and Pump-
Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
fh
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
fd
gdf
DR. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
“PYllOID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair? Be-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain,” com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Economy. In
one solution and three separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two sizes. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and 2/6.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co., Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney.


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD."
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GOOD, STRONG, CLOSE SHOOTERS. Guaranteed for Quality.
STEVENS
i
SHOT GUNS.
SINGLE BARREL %
Choke bored for nitro powder.
Case-hardened frame. For any standard make of
ammunition. Made in 12, 16 and 20 gauges in standard lengths and weights.
Ask your dealer. Insist on STEVENS. Every gun tested.
Write for Catalogue and detailed information to
ARTHUR H Mil I Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
I l 11. nibk) Box 86 c.P.O ~ ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA. fl
The Pieper Bayard Semi-Automatic Rifle
Is the latest achievement in Small Bore Rifles.
cS
h
gh
g
The improvements possessed by the 1912 model Bayard over all others have been reached by
repeated efforts by the Pieper staff of expert armorers.
Result—A weapon perfect and simple.
Special Features : Auto=cocking, auto-ejecting, detachable barrel.
Can be obtained of all Storekeepers, Gunsmiths and Merchants.
Write to W. A. COX, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Descriptive Booklet, post free.
fdh
Stockings & Socks.
The only all-wool hose with the soft-
ness of silk. And unshrinkable.
There are none like them for warmth, comfort, and wear.
The range of is so large that every individual taste is catered
for. Men’s, women’s and children's :in black, tan and fancy art designs
and colours - in plain, ribbed, and lace: fully fashioned and seamless.
a for every foot. And every foot should be clothed in
• 1 1 promotes health and does not irritate the skin.
See to it. Have asas and nothing but less.
"SCL6O7IL Stockings. Socks, and Underwear, for Mpq, Ladies,
and Children. In all prices. Of Men’s Out fit to rs,
brapersand Stores. If your dea'er does not stock ' GadOtlJ
he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason" booklet and name of nearest Agent to —
Aal7 JASON HOSIERY CO.. LEICESTER. ENGLAND.
xgfg
vytJV
''**** &yu,yS*
EASILY PROVED.
To try
“King George IV
Whisßy
once is all that is needed to ensure its con-
tinuance —that is a certainty. Connoisseurs
proclaim it “pure, exhilarating and beneficial.”
It is the Whisky of Whiskies.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
THE
ISTILLERS
Latest Scotch Whisky
Distillers in the World.
‘OMPANY,
r Capital employed,
over .£3,000,000.
Ltd.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
Sydney—Angei Place; Melbourne— 52, William Street.
a
GOLCRYST” is asefol
«
VA
w
o
o
YA
o
X.
T
u~
Blood Disorders,
For Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Diver Troubles, Constipation,
Excesses in Diet, “GOLCRYST” is a most useful medicine.
of EPSOM SALTS, SENNA, SARSAPARILLA, DANDELION,
LIQUORICE and GINGER, “GOLCRYST” is the finest Blood Purifier known. Sold
everywhere in packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. If unable to obtain locally, write to Rocke,
Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne, for free sample. [3
•J WHOLESALE AGENTS:—W.A., Neale, Constable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists-,” Ade-
laide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane ; N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug Co., Sydney.
THERMOS
VACUUM FLASK
If utility and convenience have no interest
for you —you can do without a Thermos.
Otherwise, you will purchase one Now.
Thermos Flasks keep hot liquids
■W hot for 24 hours and cold liquids '3Bsl
cold for days in any climate.
Thermos Vacuum Flasks and Jugs are sold by Stores,
Ironmongers, Jewellers, Chemists, and c 1 :ers.
Wholesale Agents: H. A. Parker & Co., Castlereagh Chambers, 10, Castlereagh St., Sydney
xfh
The Reverend
John Hosking.D.D.
Minister of the Congregational
Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
says there is no Medicine
to equal
CLEMENTS
TONIC
1
*»
d
%.XL
"1
r
Here is his letter written from The Manse)
10\ Gore Street, Fitzroy, J/3/J2* —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
I was completely run down, and suffered by nervous prostration,
being troubled with Insomnia and Severe Headaches.
I had tried various medicines and spent much money with doctors,
but all to no purpose.
One bottle put me right, and was worth its weight in gold. I re-
commend this medicine very strongly. You may use this as you think
fit.
(Signed) JOHN HOSIvING.
(Congregational Minister, Fitzroy, Melbourne).
The medicine that saves and lengthens life, brings back health long despaired of, restores
vigor and mental energy, and suffering men and women recover and enjoy life, surely this is
medicine for the people who are sickly, weak-nerved, undermined, or who cannot get strong after
long illness or fever. They should send for it without deluv. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
SELL IT THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. GET IT AND GET WELL.


For the
Children
When the children are weak,
when they do not care to play, '
when they are languid, when
they keep thin, and when they
have no appetite; this is the
medicine they need—
Aijeifs
Sarsaparilla
SOLD FOB Jg 60 YEABS 1
No alcohol in this medicine. No
habit-forming drug of any kind.
Perfectly safe in every way. Ask
your doctor for his approval.
Talk to the children about this I
great rule of health—'“Have
daily movements of the bowels.” '
Ayer’s Pills are sugar-coated,
gently laxative. Dose, one pill,
only one pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO.,
Lowell, Mass., U. 8. A. ,
GOLDEN KEY” CIGARS
The Cigar with the Exquisite Charm.
9a ißlf*rL9**
Delightful Aroma.
PRESENTATION Cabinets
containing 50 Cigars
22/6 (Post Free).
A sample lot of 5
Cigars,
2/6
Post
Free.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
MA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma.NervonsConghs,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges may
not always suffice to
ensure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question
without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two ‘Eley Loaded' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme*
A bright orangeg-inch
deep-shell Cartridge
i loaded with Eley
l (42-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy ‘EJoid’
Alight maroon Cartridge.
Loaded withfiley(33 gr )
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Eley Bros., Ld., London
Enjr.
gf
ƒg
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mot her used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNINQTOH’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
rmation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE- SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
JBonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
DRUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOEDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving- for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, 'N. S.W.
hfg
IMPROVE YOUR FIGURE
Every Thin Woman can be Fully Developed.
Every Fat Person can be Safely Reduced to Normal.
THIN WOMEN
If you are flat-chested, thin,
run down and scraggly—even if
you never had a nicely-rounded
bosom, Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-
food will build you up and de-
velop your figure. Does your
mirror mock you? Flesh-food
will remove the faults in your
figure by rounding out and de-
veloping the deficient places.
Put up in Tablet form, it is
easy to use and pleasant to
take, and, if desired, may be
taken secretly. Taken under
■our directions, it will work wonders for your
appearance.
In many cases bust measurements have been
increased by over ten inches, and the weight
over five pounds weekly. Other cases have
shown an increase in weight of even a pound
a day. The average bust increase desired is
about six inches, and is readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development
to the thousands of chronically thin women
who have despaired of ever possessing a pre-
sentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food
treatment that adds weight and permanent de-
velopment to attenuated women.
FAT PEOPLE
Excess fat injures your health,
impedes your movements, and
makes you the butt of your un-
feeling normal-weight friends.
People who have been fat, and are
now reduced to normal, think
other fat people ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat in-
jure your health and endanger
your existence, it absolutely _
destroys your figure and makes you a ludicrous
sight. Why do you stay fat? “FATCURE"
positively removes excess fat, and will restore
your spoiled figure to decent and pleasing pro-
portions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses im-
proves your breathing wonderfully, and the
course of treatment will cure you.
Is the only successful, and, at the same time,
harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been dis-
covered. Its efficacy has been undeniably de-
monstrated in thousands of successfully treated
cases. It is totally and absolutely non-poison-
ous, and can in no wise work any injury to the
general health; though it often reduces excess
xvpio-hf. hv ns much as a. rtnnnfl a dav.
hdf
LET US SEND YOU A FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “FLESH-FOOD ” or “FA TCURE.”
Send 2d. stamp, and say which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
“BUST” to thin people, “OBESITY” to fat ones. Be sure to say which sample you want. No
matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. Write or call to-day. Confidential.
THE WATWORTH FALLIERE ASSN., 1103 Ash St., Sydney (aisos)
TOBACCO KILLS!
!^
Zz
ksr»
Cl
'V
•J -
Face to Face with Death /
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. H. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, hut since taleina your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. Q,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, [s.
I
vi
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
Ten Days' Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resistinß or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc.
modeS £ 3*lo to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using; sufficient postage*
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Deot. *BO, LSVERPOOLo
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE-STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS,
The' Standard Remedy wh.ch has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, filing Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
6- GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
•old to dnto.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Rowland’s
Macassar
I Oil !
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which ijature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect of
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND'S,
67, Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
“lINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bishop’s Train.
The Church of England. .. was not dealing in first-
class tickets to Heaven, as so many people thought.
The Church of England was only issuing a third-
class ticket to those who were going to get out and
shove. — Dr. Long, Bishop of Bathurst.
The whistle blew: our train moved off from out the
praising crowd ;
Trim nobles waved a suave farewell —their valets
smirked and bowed ;
The reverent peasants bowed their heads as each
estate we neared,
And at the wayside stations all the common persons
cheered.
Slim deacons served us gorgeous fare as we rolled on
afar
In ease and gilded luxury, within our palace car —■
Buoyed up on springs of wealth and whirled on
wheels of zealots’ love ;
Who ever dreamed the time would come when we’d
“get out and shove”?
Still smoothly year by year along the rails Our
Train was borne,
And many a side-tracked car we passed, the target
for our scorn ;
We spared no pity for their fate —their wheels of
creed were slack,
They had not built their Train like Ours —’twas time
they left the track !
Our creed was builded of the Throne, the Nation
and the Lord:
Our special train had Vested Rights and £Tory
powers aboard:
We jeered each broken-down express from win-
dows high above—
“ High time their passengers,” we laughed, “crawled
out behind — to shove!”
Yet slowly as the years went on our gladness lost
its range ;
Dim junctions loomed across the night, where all
were forced to change ;
Each train grew dingier than the last; each car grew
plainer still;
The crowds upon the platform drear no longer
cheered their fill;
No smirking flunkeys rushed to seize our luggage
at the gates ;
No deacons brought us gilded cheer on offertory
plates.
The pace grew slow, and as we crawled, in tones
scarce stored with love,
We heard the Common People jeer: “Say, Bish. t
Get out and shove!”
And now we’re in the cattle-box, all mildew’d o’er
with age,
That bumps and bangs its way along the Straight
and Narrow Gauge ;
The engine’s labored panting tells of strength upon,
the wane;
Through many a rift of schism leaks the power that,
drove the train;
Before us lies the Steepest grade—who guessed at
setting out
The smooth and level track would reach this moun-
tain-bank of Doubt?
The engine stalls. The rainy rails are slippery as
eels.
Our only hope is doffing coats and—shoulders to the:
wheels!
No time for vain regrets or fears. The moonless;
night is black.
We’re out with brother working men in shirt-sleeves,
on the track !
No more we lurk within our car —a caged and placid'
dove;
The time has come to shed our gauds—to tumble-
out and shove!
VICTORIA.
EPISCOPUS.
After the Solstice.
It is little we love the dark and the cold,
We folk with the fire of the South in our veins ;
Then give us the sun in his glory of gold
All royal, sultanie, imperial, bold.
God fashioned us, certes, for sunshine and space,
Spread splendor, large distances, mountains and
plains,
The stars of the midnight, the glamor, the grace
Of the valley and upland and green forest-place.
The wind and the rain and the frost and the snow,
Four jailers are they, gruff, savage and chill;
The scimitar-moon in the west hanging low
Seems not the rich lady we knew months ago.
Bleached sunlight is not to our liking, I ween,
Nor nights spent in yawning, with toes to the fire ;
There’s that in our blood that cries out for the
sheen,
The grace and the glory of some summer scene.
Very fine, very fine, are the legends that run
On hearthside-grouped folk, spinning yarns, sing-
ing songs;
Yet give me the epic that flows from the sun,
The lyric of waters when daylight is done.
Where now are the shining-limbed folk of the beach ?
They crouch by the fireside and dream of the past:
The brown of their shoulders the winter winds bleach
What time they sit yearning for joys out of reach.
And what of Sir Long Legs—The Knight of the
Road ?
Where now the miles that he conquered last
Spring—
A swag on his shoulders, perchance, but no load
In his heart to make leaden the way as he strode.
Yet, courage, my comrades, the year’s on the mend,
The solstice is over, the sun marches south—
A little while yet, and with Spring as our friend
We’ll tread the green ways and the roads without
end.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Theory.
We’ve sturdiness when first we tread
Upon the path that leads us—whence?
But every aim and joy is marred
Through woeful inexperience.
When we attain to wisdom’s rank,
And gain the sense to see us through,
Our youth and sturdiness are dead,
The old enthusiasm too.
This world with us unfairly deals ;
But I —with endless ponderings vext —
Find consolation in the thought:
We may live backwards in the next!
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


THE HUB
218-222
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
OF NEWTOWN
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Four Specials from our Blanket Section.
SPECIAL No. I. Australian Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully finished,
large double-bed size, weighing 71b., for.. . ... ’ 19/11
SPECIAL No. 2. Australian All-Wool Blanket, extra large size; the best grey Blanket manufac-
tured for the price, weight 7Jib 16/11
SPECIAL No. 3.—Heavy English Whitney Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 7-Alb.,
for the double-bed size, only .....' . 15/11
SPECIAL No. 4. -An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grev English-made Blanket, double-
bed size, weighing 71b., for 10/6
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
<<M V <l nn'^lv,y'^r7/u ,r dre f, and walking wear, is made of fine patent colt-sldn, with tops of
Cuban Heel '/ h -i s S , hoe , has a flexible - sewed extending sole and a comfortable
attracticf’ fast-colored eyelets, and the wide silk laces add much to the general
sizes 2to 7 ' Price 8 '° e 18 ,110( eed 011 a new toe-shape, this season’s style. A grand fitter ;
l4/9
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot; with occasional applications of Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, sto 10. Price 12/6
*
3!
r£
he
T
GO
■
m
<
o
u
rf UB
•V
v
Our Motto —
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
a
t,..
&£■■■s■% ' y^c nc/
fo>
Vt/ie
dm
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Bswa
in
IdJdJk
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to . The Manager.
THE NEW TYPE
(LARGE and SMALL)
Boomerang Grand
s^ffSoiVySjß/IJI
Gr
KIERCH»NSEABLf (RAND
ALBERT'S SYSTEM
hand f ( . LE()
hcbos
Is the Mouth Organ of quality, tonality and durability; its sound is pure, sweet and musical.
The BOOMERANG GRAND is a hundred years ahead of all those Mouth Organs styled under
sumptuous names. The GRAND has no pretentions; it is simply the best of the best; because,
apart from i;ts numerous qualities, it possesses two more cardinal ones, viz.: The GRAND wastes
no wind, and has a larger range of REEDS than any of the Modern Mouth Organs. Again, the
Large and the Small GRAND are nobly finished in enamel or nickel, with gold lettering.
PRICES The Large GRAND BOOMERANG, with 48 Reeds, 6/6
■er The Small GRAND BOOMERANG, with 24 Reeds, 3/6
To be had, post free, from any respectable dealer (who does not attempt to talk you over
into a substitute), or
direct from the makers.
J. ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney
RIFE
RAM
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, Irrigation,Town Plants,Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction truaranteerl. Over 7000 in use!
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile— Write for Free Plans and Book!
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
THE ACCORDEQH for Country Residents.
hf
h
We don’t believe any Aceordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Aceordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected bv steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price ;£1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Heeds, Celeste and Orjran Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
VI I
■
ar # -
m
r .-;«
’I
P
fOKA
fm f/&y
mm
m i m
'!’ ,WA
I! U
U 1
“Made
Right
to Run
Right”!
PERDRIAU
Motor Tyres
are unexcelled by any others on the market.
Inspection invited. Price List Free on Request.
PERDRIAU
Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“THE BEST HOUSE FOR ALL RUBBER GOODS,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; 105 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
n
IMPERIAL
TYPEWRITER
A first-grade machine, British-built in the largest typewriter manufactory
in the Empire, and unsurpassed for durability and speed. Although it
weighs only 141 b., and costs only jQiijn /-, we guarantee that no
machine at any price will do better work or last longer. The
“ IMPERIAL ” has made the high-price typewriter a fad.
• • •
ABRIDGED SPECIFICATION: Visible writing; two-color vibrating
ribbon ; hardened steel type; roller-bearing carriage ; ribbon release; back-
spacer ; changeable type; all languages; instantly adjustable line-feed.
Write for fully-illustrated Catalogue (post free) to
READ & CAMPBELL LTD., 40 Pitt St., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von. S3.—No. 1692.
THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1912.
PlilOK 60.
THE FATAL AND FREQUENT BRICK.
On Hip one hind there are those who see cause for reioicing in the huge Customs revenue, £14,711,440. while others point anxiously at the fact that the balance of trade’
is now importing are exporting... That is not evidence of spendthriiness: rather is it evidence of an intention to extend local mannfae-
ture, and scrap worn-out and uneconomical producing plant. S. M. Herald, plausibly.
THE OUTSIDERS’ FRIEND IN THE BONNET: “Now, now, don’t get angry, sonny. It’s all for the best, and will help in the building
of that nice big workshop you’re going to have some day.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman. for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
lhe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
'The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
or, ’ Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
tinless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
fonvarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or icash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct , reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion .only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —■ The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
V.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego.
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. l —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — lF. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6§i». x 14in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, 10oz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and Bioz. to
lOos., 24d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 4°z-> Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1912.
THE LABOR FUSION, AND THE
FREETRADE TRUSTS, AND
OTHER MATTERS.
This paper receives from one “J.R.5.,” who
hangs out somewhere in Westralia, the usual
sort of letter. “J.R.S.” is a very usual and
ordinary sort of Laborite, with a pathetic
belief in middlemen, and in Cheap Labor
and nigger and non-union goods; and with a
faith that passes all understanding in the
yarns that are told him by the Tory press—
the Argus and S. M. Herald and Sydney
Telegraph and Brisbane Courier variety
of press. His communication reads as fol-
lows :
(The Editor, The Bulletin, Sydney.)
Sir, —In “Answers to Correspondents” (B.
13/6/’l2), you accuse me of being a Tory supporter
.and a Foreign-trade barracker in disguise. Well,
you must have a hide like.a crocodile; and I have
five quid to your half-dollar I am a better Australian
than you are. I eat and wear Australian goods,
smoke Australian tobacco, and when I drink, Aus-
tralian beer is good enough for me. I won’t have
the made-in-Germanv article at any price. Suppose
your high tariff wall had been built round Australia
10 or 15 years ago, what a lovely breeding-ground it
would be to-day for the Trusts, Rings and Combines.
Of course I quite understand your poor little factory
man could do no harm, but it is the big Combine
he has a habit of developing into that Australia
wants to watch. Once the Combines get a good root
jn Australia they are there for all time, for they hold
the boodle, and, as you must know, monev talks all
languages, same as in America. Last year my vote
hel p ed this State to carry the Referenda. Had the
other States done the same, there would be nothing
“° -^ ar the Trusts and Combines your high
tan it would be sure to create. Of course, you argue
the point that wages have gone up some during the
last few years; so has the cost of living gone up.
In fact, it went up before the wages did, and wage-
earners are no better off than they were before. I
am not a wage-earner myself. I am digging holes in
the ground, looking for gold to buy some of Andrew
I notes.
And after that the writer tails off into per-
sonalities which may be left out.
As already mentioned, there is something
curious about the dog-like fidelity with which
a number of Labor people cling to the yarn
told them by the Tory importing papers—
that trusts, rings and combines are solely
born of Protection, and that they never, by
any chance, arise under the blessings of
* reetrade. This narrative is always backed
by large, vague, general allusions to the state
ot things in “America,” by which the writers
probably mean the United States, for
America is a very large country, and in-
cludes quite a number of local republics and
European (British, French, Dutch and
Danish) dependencies. There is always a
grievous lack of detail, and the statement,
as a rule, has only its effrontery and its in-
numerable repetition to support it. Yet the
amount of credence it has acquired is amaz-
ing, especially as its purposes are obvious
and vulgar enough. There is, first of all, the
de . s ire to protect the profits of that huge
middleman, the importer. He can only exist
under a policy which keeps the producer and
the consumer far apart. Where they are
close together the manufacturer gets into the
dreadful habit of selling direct to the re-
tailer or even to the consumer—as firms like
Anthony Hordern do with their locally-
made furniture. If that unfortunate habit
were to spread, the numerous herd of big im-
porters, with their big warehouses and big
profits and big advertising, would simply
perish. They would have to shut up. They
might even be driven to get work. Then
there is the fear of the uprising of a great
local artisan class, which can’t be relied
upon to vote the Bruce Smith ticket, un-
like the clerk class which has, in the past,
been a fairly reliable adherent of Bruce
SMiTH-ism. The local Tory hates the idea
ot a white Australian artisan class, just as
the Johannesburg mine -owners hated the
idea of a class of white miners and workmen
generally, and for just the same reason.
I rankly and openly, the Jo’burg magnate of
a few years ago said he didn’t want to have
in the country a community of workers that
would form trades unions and interfere in
politics. His remedy was to bring in cheap
alien labor as far as he could get it. The
Australian Tory’s remedy is to bring in the
products of cheap alien labor. But for the
fact that the miner must be on the spot, in
which respect he differs from the spinner or
weaver, the Jo’burg magnate wouldn’t have
troubled to be an importer of Chinese labor.
He would simply have been an importer of
Chinese goods, and then he would have been
in the same category as W. M. Hughes, or
any other Freetrader.
So the bogey of the trusts and combines
of Protectionist countries is worked for all
it is worth. Of course there are trusts and
combines under Protection —and also under
Freetrade. Likewise they are found under
Revenue Tariffism. The great, glaring, con-
spicuous, outstanding trust or combine of
the world is Standard Oil. It is the hor-
rible example and the prize drunk. It is so
low down that every dog barks at it. And
yet oil is on the United States free list, and
always has been, with this exception—that
if any country taxes U.S. oil its own oil will
be similarly taxed, but not more heavily
taxed, in the U.S. The petroleum of Russia
and Burma and Borneo can pour into Uncle
Sam’s country by billions of gallons if the
rulers of these countries please—and still
Standard Oil looms very large, and is quoted
as the supreme combine of the world. Simi-
larly, there is an ice trust in George Wash-
ington’s country, though ice is on the free
list; and there is a rubber trust, though
rubber is also free. Again, the States
have a copper trust, though copper
(in plates, bars, ingots, pigs and similar
forms) pays not so much as Id. per 1000
tons at the Customs. In fact, though the
latest list which this paper can lay its hands
upon specifies 63 United States “trusts,”
most of them are really only big companies.
1 or instance, there are no less than five steel
trusts on the list, so they can’t all be mono-
polies. And the real monopolies seem to rest
largely on a Freetrade basis.
* * * •
On the other hand, the same volume
enumerates '5B British “trusts” which are
said to have grown up under Freetrade. Of
course many of these are only big com-
panies, like many of the U.S. samples. Three
are mentioned as having £20,000,000 capital
or more, and 16 as having £5,000,000 or
more. They appear to boss a lot of
industries, down to salt and thread. The
Shipping Combine isn’t included, apparently
through the difficulty of getting information
about that stupendous mystery. It is pro-
bably about the biggest trust on this planet.
* * * *
And Australia has had some little ex-
perience of combines on its own. It has had
a coal vend, though coal is free; and a
coastal shipping combine, though anyone
may import new ships without paying duty,
and compete till all is blue. It has had meat
rings, though the wildest enthusiast hasn’t
suggested that they arose because the tariff
hindered the importation of fresh meat from
the green, abundant pastures of England.
And, finally, there is the one great and hor-
rible example—the Colonial Sugar Refining
Co., which is partly in Australia, partly in
Maonland and partly in Fiji, and so is
partly Protectionist and partly Freetrade.
It is a very big and aggressive and obnoxious
affair, yet at its worst it isn’t a quarter the
size of the British thread combine. There
are many other instances that might be
quoted on one side or another, but they
wouldn’t alter the verdict. And the verdict
is that great combines or monopolies grow
up alike under Protection and under Free-
trade, if the community is fool enough to let
them grow up. To a very great extent they
depend on control of the means of transit,
either by land or sea. It was that which
made Standard Oil—the great Freetrade
trust of the globe—and it has almost invari-
ably been the chief factor. But the im-
porters’ press lias always most carefully ex-
ploited the trust or combine bogey as a
means of scaring ignorant or unreasoning
people off the national policy of Protection.
And very many Laborites regard a state-
ment as gospel, just because a Tory paper
makes it, provided it is a fiscal statement —
for some reason that seems to be regarded as
different from any other statement. So the
importer—a lamentable Tory middleman who
is ten times more objectionable than that
other middleman, the contractor, inasmuch
as he is often a mere branch of a foreign
firm and sends his profits abroad—has flour-
ished greatly. He has brought out cheap
labor and nigger and Chinese and “scab”
goods. He has brought out the goods of
monopolies and trusts and combines, and he
has brought them out by the ships of the
great British Freetrade shipping combine,
which is even more insolent and overbearing
in some ways than Standard Oil. And the
Labor Fusion —the concern which is partly
lieal Laborite and the rest Cheap Laborite —
has given him its support and countenance
to a surprising extent.
WHY LURK FURTHER BEHIND
THE HEDGE?
The Tory dailies of N. S. Wales are in a
frenzy of apprehension at the prospect of the
McGowen Government abolishing anony-
mous journalism, and they are fighting the
idea with the utmost vigor. It is not aston-
ishing that this should be so. These con-
cerns always have fought like tigers for their
privileges, regardless of the public welfare
and similar considerations. Many years ago
B. it. Wise started an agitation against tne
tree carriage of newspapers on the N. S.
YYales railways. There could not have been
more uproar from the businesses concerned,
over this act of common justice, had it been
proposed to rob them of assets which were
their lawful property. The case for the
tree or Socialistic carriage of newspapers
was as glaringly bad as the case might be,
say, tor the free transport by the State of
all goods from Anthony Hordern and
Sons' or one of the other big shops ; and so
the public turned an unsympathetic ear on the
newspaper proprietaries’ lamentations. The
case in support of press anonymity is almost
as weak, and it is consequently bound to
tail, amid the approving cheers of about 90
per cent, of the multitude, if the Government
attacks it seriously. The position is as
simple as a child’s primer. Logically, there
is no more virtue or beauty in anonymous
journalism—-British though it may be in the
matter of origin—than there is in anonymous
letter-writing. An anonymous letter may
be all that is admirable and honest and
straightforward, just as a Bengali native
may be brave and truthful, but the odds are
powerfully the other way. Similarly, an an-
onymous article, in a partisan newspaper,
on a heated political question, may put the
position with meticulous fairness; on the
other hand it may distort it most villain-
ously.
The answers of the dailies to the above
are (1) The British press, upon which the
Australian press is modelled, has a high and
wide-flung reputation for probity; (2) it is
an insult to the intelligence of the modern
Democrat to suggest that he can be side-
tiackecl politically, by press lies; (3) even
supposing the press so far departs from
British traditions as to wrong any party or
individual, there is a name printed some-
where or other, in every paper, from
whose owner it is possible to obtain legal
redress. As regards the first contention, the
local barrackers for anonymity are guilty
of a grave mis-statement, to put it mildly.
The British press has, for close on a cen-
tury, aroused a sort of half-humorous ad-
miration among Continental peoples by rea-
son of the weightjness of its respectability ;
but it has never in its life enjoyed a name
for honesty. British and Australian papers
are tree from the obscene matter that is to
be found in many French and Italian sheets ;
also, they avoid the libellous personalities
which characterise the majority of the
American journals. But neither phenomenon
has anything to do with anonymity. They
are due, almost entirely, to the state of the
law. British party newspapers have never
been distinguished for probity in the sense
or truthfulness and fair dealing; in fact,
they have always been notorious for
directly opposite qualities. The Boer
war—an adventure which is now gen-
erally admitted to have been insanely
bad business, apart altogether from
the ethical aspect of the question—would
have been impossible had Britain owned an
honest press 12 years ago. As it was, the
untruths which were retailed daily by Con-
servative papers concerning the Boers, their
infamies, immoralities, insanitariness, etc.
quickly maddened the electors of Britain
into taking the view the mostly Yiddisher
share-riggers of London, Johannesburg it ml
elsewhere wanted them to take. The same
papers have, for purely party purposes,
fomented, more recently, a dangerous pas-
sion of hatred against Germany. Our own
Australian press is responsible in great part
for such class hatred as is to be found in
the Commonwealth. Liberalism, with the
object of getting its nominees into Parlia-
ment, has for years been representing Labor-
ltes as a band of law-breaking lunatics. As
a wind-up to George Reid’s idiotic “anti-
Socialistic” campaign, Sydney Telegraph
actually urged the electors of N. S. Wales to
use their “day of power” by voting “against
Anarchy —meaning the policy of the essen-
lialiy safe and rational Watson party,
•n* tactics stirred up a lot of unnecessary
llt-teeling, and did no real good for the ex-
ploiters of them. The same methods are
employed in countless other directions. A
paper disapproves of a law to restrict alien or
any other sort of immigration. It proceeds to
tell the world that, as a result of this mad, in-
human law, wrecked niggers are pushed off
the Australian coast into the raging billows;
and it announces that white workmen who
arrive in the Commonwealth from abroad
are liable to be gaoled. It favors a Black
Australia, and, more particularly, the em-
ployment of cheap colored labor wherever
possible. It accordingly gives it out lhat a
large, fertile and well-watered portion of
the Commonwealth is unfit for Caucasians
to live in. It is exasperated at the action
of a man like Speaker Willis in keeping the
Liberal party out of office. It pictures
Willis _as an ignorant fool, a cunning,
self-seeking rogue, a vain weakling and a
resolute and dangerous tyrant all in one. In
theory an intelligent Democracy should see
through these manoeuvres, and treat them
with incredulous scorn. In practice, the
painful truth is the Democracy— being a
wooden-headed lot at best, and largely ab-
sorbed anyhow in the effort to earn a living
—detect the baselessness of none of these
shameless yarns till the absurdity of them
has been dinned into their ears about 14 000
times. Manv of the most nationally-harmful
lies which are exploited by the press for
party or business reasons takd .years before
they can be discredited, so subtle are they •
others are never wholly disproved. For in-
stance, it is impossible to prove definitely
that the climate of the Northern Territory
does not kill the white man, since, thou°ii
many white men do remarkably well there a
certain proportion undoubtedly pass over
y?ar by year. None of these injurious tarra-
diddles affords any ground for action against
the gentleman whose name is printed on the
paper, so that wronged parties may know
whom to assail. In the present state of
the law writers have full license to libel
their native land; and a N. S. Wales Judge
gave a decision the other day which
amounted to an intimation that it was
almost impossible to over-abuse a public
man.
* * *
Here, then, is a flaring abuse that fairly
shrieks for redress. How is it to be reme-
died? Well, one obvious way is to enjoin the
signing of all political articles. A. newspaper
is one of those things which has neither a
body to be kicked nor a soul to be damned,
it may term the Boer an incestuous thief
and murderer to-day, and an honest Bible-
loving citizen to-morrow, and not experience
a twinge of embarrassment. It may lie furi-
ously through the whole of a political cam-
paign, and not lose a friend. The experi-
ence of years goes to show that, in daily
journalism, the hardest liars are the best
sellers. But an individual writer is differ-
ently situated. So long as he puts his name
to the truth, or something resembling
tiie same, his position is unassailable.
n the other hand, if he represents
Ins native land as a region that is
controlled by dangerous criminals, and a
place where visiting foreigners are gaoled
and drowned; and if he suggests that his
countrymen are impotent to manufacture
articles which Europeans turn out by the
million; and if he lays it down that they are
incapable of manning warships or otherwise
defending themselves as a nation, he begins
5 n . d ’ ?° matter how unpatriotic his circle
ot friends may be, that he is becoming un-
popular. No man will lightly make of him-
selt a pariah, and hence the chastening bene-
Slgne f J ourn aljsm. It can neither
.uence noi do a vestige of damage to an
honest writer—-the type of man, that is, who
is not ashamed of his political views, and be-
!ne^ eS f5 l ! i' ien 1 tly their merits to take up
e attitude that they do not require to be
buttressed by untruths. To the hireling liar
the suggested new arrangement is obviously
fraught with countless horrors. But where
of ifiSgTiaST in “ nsMeri "S the Mlw
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The White Man Up North.
There uprose last week “the Associated
Commonwealth .Chamber of Commerce”
tv fS roteS A a & a _i. ns t the allegation that
orthern Australia is not a healthy country
tor white settlers. It was good of the Cham-
ber to upheave itself in this fashion, and it
was good of the daily papers to report the
tact. Mill, it would be a pity if, because of
tins well-meant endeavor, an impression was
created that the North required any defence
or any apology. As a matter of fact, it is
its own defence. There has just been issued
a i, l , y n comprehensive statement of the
world s death-rate during the year 1910, and
the death-rate is a fair test of health, for the
most unhealthy circumstance—even the most
decomposed circumstance—possible is to be
dead, while in a general way, arid allowing
tor some exceptions, the healthiest possible
proceeding, or arrangement, is to , be alive.
Ihere are exceptions to every rule, but, on
the whole,_ a lack of deadness is 1 a good
sign. During the year 1910 there were six
countries\on this earth in which th‘e death-
rate tor the year got down to 97 per 10,000
people. One of them (Maoriland) is com-
monly regarded as a cool sort of place, though
it isn t cool according to British or Russian
or Scandinavian ideas. In fact, the North
Island of Maoriland is almost warm, and it
is m the North that the bulk of ths popula-
tion is now concentrated, and there the in-
crease is largest; also the biggest city of
Maoriland is _ the furthest-north city—
tlie one that is nearly abreast of Sydney,
lhe other four States where the death-rate
was down to the minimum of 97 per 10,000
were Westralia, a very large section of
which is in the tropics; S.A. (including the
-territory), a very large section of which
is also in the tropics ; Queensland, which is
mostly in the tropics ; and N.S.W. The two
highest death-rates in the Commonwealth
were in the two coldest States^ —Tasmania and
\ ictoria. The death-rates of the cool Euro-
pean countries where the white man hangs
out his historic shingle, and feels very sorry
tor himself, were various. England and
Wales showed a record of 145 per 10,000.
wnidi was a grievous falling-off as compared
with Queensland’s 97. The record for Scot-
land was _ 153, which is worse; but, then,
Scotland is colder than England. Ireland’s
was 172, which is horrible. Other figures
were—Holland, 137; Denmark, 131; Hun-
gary* -pi j and so on. Nowhere in all the
civilised globe does the white man reveal a
lower death-rate than in tropical Australia,
so that region has some cause to be proud
of itself. Furthermore, the birth-rate of
tropical Australia isn’t bad. Among all
the white man’s countries of the world, the
four which show the greatest surplus of
births over deaths are Tasmania, Queens-
land, N.S.W. and Westralia, in that order.
So the most exclusively tropical white man’s
country on earth makes a dead heat for first
plane in the matter of the lowest death-rate,
and takes second place for the highest effec-
tive birth-rate. _ Also, another tropical white
man s country is close up. As for the really
cold countries which the white man inhabits,
they are nowhere in this connection. No
doubt there is truth in the statement that
the white man hasn’t been living an<? work-
ing in tropical Australia long enough to
Supply positive evidence of his suitability,
it is equally true that he hasn’t been living
and working long enough anywhere to sup-


ply positive evidence of bis suitability, for
no one knows bow many tens of years or
billions of years constitute positive evidence.
It may even prove that man isn’t fit to
inhabit the present universe; the Book ot
Revelation suggests that much, and hints
that in time the whole show will blow up, or
break down, and the Vials be opened, and
the Beast be turned loose. All that can be
said is that, so far as the available testi-
mony goes, Northern Australia is a white
man’s land —much more of a white man s
land than England is. That conclusion is
based on all the available facts, and no
reasonable person could ask for more facts
than the whole lot. If affairs change, ana
the white man begins to die in the North, it
can only be said that it is a habit he acquired
in colder latitudes. It is a solemn fact that
the white man in colder latitudes is mostly
dead, and has been dead most of the time.
+»
A System Under Which He Who
Truckles Not is Host.
The other dky Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., ad-
dressed the Liberals of Manly. According to
Sydney Telegraph lie said, among other
things, that, “if his chief (Mr. Wade) had
no objection, he would offer his services to
Manly—the new Middle Harbor electorate.”
It is a cheerful coinmentary on the allegedly
“free and independent” position of the Lib-
eral. Arthur is an M.L.A. of years stand-
ing. His constituency presumably approves
of him since it has returned him repeatedly.
Yet he dare not so much as ask for the votes
of his old supporters without getting permis-
sion from the representative of an adjoining
constituency whom the majority of Manly-
ites probably regard with indifference, not to
say impatience and scorn. It is unlikely
that the State would crash to earth in a
condition of dismemberment and chaos if
Wade, instead of allowing Arthur con-
test the new Middle Harbor seat, used the
autocratic power which he appears to pos-
sess, under the so-called untrammelled Lib-
eral system, to foist on Manly a candidate
who was abhorrent to the residents. But
there are easily-imaginable circumstances in
which a legislator who was a priceless asset
to the State might be pushed right out of
public life, as a result of one more or less
irresponsible citizen being allowed full power
to decide as to his eligibility to contest a
given seat. Thus in England, in the last
couple of years, the Liberal Parliamentary
party has lost two of its most brilliant and
original-minded men — Harold Cox and
Hilaire Belloc— owing solely to the hide-
bound rules under which the party game is
played. Cox and Belloc deliberately went
out of public life rather than submit to the
idiotic and debasing state of affairs to which
Arthur proudly owned allegiance the other
day, amid the approving cheers of the bogus
Liberals present. Most men of independence,
with sufficient intelligence to appreciate the
real position, would be liable to act as they
did. The people who pull the party strings
blither grandiosely about the glories of war-
fare, and the admirableness of lining up
behind “the chief” and presenting a solid
front, or shirtfront, to the foe. What all
this bellowdramatic guff amounts to is that
a band of futile dupes are prevailed upon
to line up, like unthinking dummies, and
sink whatever convictions or principles they
have, so that the bank balances of
their leaders may be benefited. Take
the case of Speaker Willis. The
action which still causes his name to be
hooted wherever a few Liberals are gath-
ered together, saved N. S. Wales the cost
and worry of a superfluous general election,
and to that extent, at least, it was a patri-
otic move. Incidentally, however, it de-
prived Wade and his colleagues of all im-
mediate prospect of office. They proceeded,
in consequence, to behave like wild
animals. The wildest of them did not
struggle furiously with policemen on
the floor of the House because they
considered that Willis’s acceptance, of the
Speakership meant ruin, or even injury, to
N. S. Wales. They did it because they
were embittered at the prospect of a fur-
ther term in the comparatively unsalaried
shades of Opposition. At the Liberal
conference last week various speakers sol-
emnly congratulated 0. G. Wade on his self-
restraint in keeping his hands off Willis
during the Parliamentary riots of last ses-
sion. Had Wade shown calm unconcern
during the passage of the most Socialistic
measure on record, no one would have ex-
pressed astonishment. What staggered these
Liberals was that he held back from dealing
it out to the man who had done a far more
maddening deed ; i.e., cheated him (Wade)
out of place and pay. According to the imme-
morial rules of the party game, Willis
should have let the interests of the State go
to blazes, and considered only the interests of
Wade, Wood and co. In short, Party Gov-
ernment is largely a device to secure a num-
ber of well-paid billets for a handful of poli-
tical hacks. As long as it obtains, weak
and useless men will be found keeping then-
ends up (1) by grovelling to their chiefs; (2)
by swallowing principles wholesale in the
name of party discipline. Simultaneously,
the big men —the nationally valuable men —
will be observed getting out of politics, as a
calling that is incompatible with either con-
sistency or self-respect. That is to say, the
fortunes of the couutry will continue to be
administered by tenth-rate individuals.
Re Alleged High Food Prices.
Dear Bulletin, —The fuss about the
mllbjged High Cost of Food appears to have
bec-otue chronic. Almost everybody accepts
it ajs a foregone conclusion, and considers the
■ case proved; in fact, the High Price of Food
being regraded as a self-evident proposi-
tion, there is-nothing left save to hunt for
the reason of the phenomenon. The phe-
momenon itself is taken as read, just as
witchcraft and a material hell used to be,
:and just as the S. M. Herald accepts Cook
as the original finder of Australia. So the
present may be as good a time as any to
remark that, after all, the alleged High
Price of Food is, to a considerable extent,
ignorant and uninformed blither. Assuming
that by high prices one means prices that
are higher lhan the average, and that low
prices are intended to be prices that are
lower than the average—that must be the
meaning, else it would be open to anybody
to §ay that bread was cheap at fl per loaf,
and a first-class new suit of clothes dear at Id.
—then there is really nothing to complain
about. It is only necessary to look back a
little, and that fact stands out too conspicu-
ously to be ignored. Thus, in N.S.W., dur-
ins the year 1865, bread was 7£d per 21b.
loaf butter Is. 9d. per lb., cheese 9d„ the
cheapest kind of sugar 44d., the cheapest
kind of tea 25., eggs Is. 6d. per dozen, and
so on. These were the average prices, toi
the year, and it wasn’t reckoned a specially
high-priced year either. In 1882 bacon ai ei
aged Is. per lb. in Sydney, and eggs 2s. per
dozen. Bread was 4d. the 21b. loaf, butter
Is. 3d., cheese Sd., tea (cheapest) 25., plain
beef, 41 d. per lb., and so on. And there was
nothing specially exciting about 18SA it
wasn’t a drought year. The State was sup-
posed to be enjoying all the blessings of
Freetrade. The railway congestion hadn t
begun to hamper the arrival of food supplies.
There were no wages boards, no federation
and no .Labor parties. And with all these
advantages, the necessaries of life cost more
than they do now. In fact, nmst things
have had a habit of being dearer, in N.S.VV.
at all events, than they are now (and the
records go back to 1820), except in a brief,
abnormally cheap period beginning about
1893. Out of the first 58 years (1820 to
1878) there were only two in which butter
got down to Is., and there were 19 in which
the average figure was over 2s. During the
first 50 years there were 15 in which the
21b. loaf cost 6d. or more, as a whole year’s
average, and there were 39 years when the
price was 4d. or more. The highest recorded
average price for a whole year was Hid. per
21b. loaf. There is a record of eggs since
1836. Between 1836 and 1900 (64
years) there were 13 years in which
"the average price was over 2s. per
dozen, and for 38 years the figure was
Is. 6d. or over. Even plain old beef cost
6d. per lb. as far back as 57 years ago—that
was the mean price for a whole year. As a
matter of solemn fact the High Cost of Food
exists chiefly in the minds of those who
don’t investigate, but depend on their own
unreliable recollections ,like the oldest in-
habitant of the hamlet, when he has reminis-
cences in the public house. The rates have
risen as compared with those which
prevailed immediately after 1893 —the
days of misery and soup kitchens and
sand-shifting charity, and rail-painting
jobs for the unemployed—the days when
wages were almost nil, and a suburban
landlord hesitated to turn out the most
hopelessly non-payable tenant if be were
clean and respectable, because he at least
kept tramps and dogs out of the premises,
and prevented the whole place being carried
away for firewood. Compared with that ab-
normal time of cheap production—a period
the like of which Australia never wants to
see again—present food prices are distinctly
up. But they are quite reasonable when
the whole course of local history is taken
into accqunt, 'and he who discourses to the
contrary is an uninquiring ass, and the
facts are not in him; also he is holding con-
verse through his hat.—Tours, etc., Henry
Horsecollar.
The Farmer, and What He Thinks of
His Own Creed.
When the factory system of butter-making
began, several Melbourne agents and one big
Melbourne company erected creameries in
the Western District of Victoria and bought
the farmers’ milk. But the farmer, though
he professed to think that the sun shone out
of Private Enterprise and the rain fell from
it, soon formed co-operative companies and
put up his own butter and cheese mills, until
now, from Geelong right to Port Fairy,
there is only one private factory. Later on,
the Butter Commission showed the sturdy
Western District individualist that the
agents who were marketing his butter were
rooking him; so he formed the big Whole-
sale Co-operative Co., which not only sells
the whole of his Melbourne butter, but
chases the cow-product to London and
watches it there. Last year this co. sold
some £BOO,OOO worth of the fat, and every
factory in the district but one shared in the
profit thereof. The same co. also supplies the
factories with salt, soda and other requisites;
that is to say, the farmers co-operatively
supply themselves with these goods. Next,
having sniffed something suspicious in the
butter-box industry, the same sturdy indi-
vidualists proceeded to build a collectivist
box factory at Warrnambool. At Cororooke,
near Colac, the farmers went a step farther
and formed a co-operative co. to buy their
bags, manure, etc., at wholesale rates; and
a big general produce co-operative store was
opened at Koroit. Then these lovers of Pri-
vate Enterprise still went gaily forward and
started a co-operative general store at Ter-
ang, spending some £25,000 on it. If you
told the farmer that he is Australia’s boss
collectivist, his shriek of denial and repudia-
tion would probably curdle Strawberry’s
milk. Yet, instead of feeling sorry for the
Private Enterprise that he has been shoving
so bitterly against the wall he is now hard
at work establishing a co-operative bacon
factory.
The Beloved Imported Nigger of N.S.W.
On this subject, “Boswell” speaks a piece:
Before I begin to speak on my own account, let
me quote a few lines from the London Daily Mail
Year Book for 1911 (page 166) :
“The struggle of the British Indians of the Trans-
vaal against the differential legislation affecting them
has now been proceeding for four years. In that time
4000 have gone to prison mostly with hard labor,
and several hundreds, lawfully domiciled in South
Africa, have been forcibly deported to India, their
wives and families being left behind unprovided for.
More than a third of these deportees were born in
South Africa. The laws to which exception is taken
make British Indians ineligible for acquiring the
franchise, for holding land, etc., and compel them to
take out and carry on their persons ‘passes,’ or
tickets of leave, containing full identification par-
ticulars, which must,be produced on demand to any
constable, under penalty of fine, imprisonment or
deportation. Indians may not travel in the same rail-
way carriages or tram cars, or use the same post-
office or school as the whites. The present popula-
tion is about 6000 ; prior to the war it was about
16,000. The balance have either abandoned the coun-
try or have been deported. Indians not already domi-
ciled in the Transvaal are by statute classed as un
desirables, and as' such may not enter the country,
except as .visitors and by special permission.”
All this has been sanctioned by the British Govern-
ment which shows what the British Government will
do when resolutely faced. The secret of the crusadi
against Ram Bitag lies in the fact that there were
enough Hindus in South Africa to give the white
man a chance to acquire a thorough knowledge of his
“loyal fellow-subiect.” and the more be knew of his
“loyal fellow-subject” the less he liked him. He saw
him, like a turbaned locust, eating up the land.
Natal acquired the cheap-labor disease early. In
IS9I that colonv contained 46,788 whites and 41,142
Hindus (white majority, 5646). In 1901 the Hindus
were 74,385 and the whites 63,821 (Hindu ma-
jority 10 564). In 1911 the whites were 98,582
and the Hindus 141.568 (Hindu majority, 42,986).
For the last two'or three years, in fact, there is reason
to believe that the white population has been sta-
tionary, and soon, if it can’t get its head above the
Indian multitude, and draw a long breath, it will be
on the down grade.
Then the Asiatic misery began to slop over into
the Transvaal. When the Cheap Labor war was
finished, 53,000 Chinamen were rushed into the coun-
try to work the Patman’s mines; and, at the rear
of this influx of barbarism and leorosv, the Hindu
came drifting over the border on his own account,
with his turban and his bundle and his smell, to spy
out the land. But the Boer set his teeth hard and
faced the situation. He got rid of the Chinaman
in the long run. and he is gradually getting rid of
the Hindu. The foolish British colony of Natal
alongside wishes most heartily that it could do the
same. The ivhite man who never has any use for
the Hindu is the white man who has had a large
experience of him. , ,
Sad to say, however, Australia (or at least N.S.W.)
lacks the Boer courage. Thus the platitudinous
Premier Wade declined to cancel the land ballot
privileges extended to Ram Bux, because, forsooth,
he is a “British subject” ! The disastrous constitu-
tionalist affirmed, Avith sickening reiteration, that
Downing-street would fall on him like a million tons
of bricks if he dared invade the sacro-sanctity of
brudder from the Coral Strand ! He lacked the Boer
courage. Nielsen followed Wade’s cowsteps on the
Northern Rivers, and his gibes at the Kembla hero s
friendship for brudder were coated with vitriol. But
Avhen Nielsen became Lands Minister he, too, lacked
the Boer courage, and he also became fearful _of
Bux’s influence “at Home.” Instead of instituting
nigger prohibition in land matters, he “consulted
Holman.” And Holman, Avho isn’t Louis Botha
by a Ion", lone: way, advised that the best thin" to
be done about it ivas to instruct Premier McGowen,
during hi.s Coronation junket, to be nice and sub-
missive to Lord Lansdowne on the subject. when
McGowen returned he grinned, and announced, with
indefiniteness, that lie and Lansdowne had talked
the matter over.” McGowen was just as short of
the Boer grit as the rest.. And right at the present
moment Lands Minister Beeby—he, alas! isn’t a good
Boer either —is so hopelessly indefinite about it that
Wade has been pelting him with the gibe that Beeby
is no better than himself in this matter. As the
matter still stands, any black Australian, if lie hap-
pens to sit on a Land Board, can allow Hindus in
land ballots. , , ,
It all goes to show what a chicken-hearted crew
our State Fright insects are, and their besotted igno-
rance of the legislative enactments of other British
communities. And it calls, in clarion tones, for
cross-breeding our politicians, not with the strain of
lou AVard, of M.L., but with the sturdy stock to be
found around Pretoria.
The trade returns for all Australia up to
the end of June won’t be to hand for some
time yet, but those for N.S.W. are avail-
able. They supply an interesting essay on
the results that accrue when a country tries
to combine high wages with a low tariff. It
is commonly reckoned that the Ma State re-
quires to export to the amount of £5,000,000'
a year more than it imports in order to pay
for its purchases and satisfy the interest bill
of its extraneous creditor. But for the first
half of this year it imported goods worth
£14,887,415, and exported goods worth only
£12,332,498. Instead of sending away about
£2,500,000 more than it received it imported
£2,554,917 worth more than it exported. That
was how its dealings in merchandise panned
out. In the struggle to pacify the foreign
creditor it then sent away gold to the value
of about £1,400,000, which was rather rough
on a community which only produced, in the
same six months, gold to the value of about
£300,000. This meant (1) that there was a
great drain on the accumulated stock of
gold, and (2) that despite the drain the bill
wasn’t anything like met. So the McGowen
Government borrowed £2,000,000 with great
haste in London, to prevent the local stock
of cash disappearing too suddenly, and even
then the situation wasn’t calculated to take
well and give pleasure to all. It is very
good to sink the fiscal issue, but that won-
derful old issue keeps bobbing up all the
same. And it selects its own times and
seasons, consequently it is apt to bob most
when it is wanted least.
■ ♦
In the no-confidence discussion which has:
been raging in Tasmania, “Candlestick”'
Cameron dropped off the political see-saw,,
and told the Speaker to decide between the
Labor party and the Solomon party. Thus;
the Solomon Ministry retains office on the
casting vote of George Davies, and, unless;
somebody kidnaps one of the “Liberal” 14,
and sits hard on him in a secret place while
the Earle crowd throws the Government
out on another division, the Government
will obtain a couple of months supply, and
then scamper into a six-weeks adjourn-
ment for shelter. After that, only Heaven
and Cameron know what will happen, and
this paper isn’t sure of Cameron. That
puzzling old man has hinted that in six
weeks’ time he will probably regret having
given the Speaker the sole say in the matter,
and may decide to vote against the Govern-
ment. But as Cameron’s principal griev-
ance against Solomon, who is clinging so
tenaciously to office, seems to lie in the valu-
ation put on certain land for taxation pur-
poses, and as there are indications that the
valuators will be instructed to _ reconsider
their assessment before the tax is payable,
it is possible that the _ grievance will be
modified by the time Parliament meets again.
If so. the Government may hang on indefin-
itely. But there ought to be a great time
ahead of a Government that depends on the
vote of one cantankerous squatter.
■ ♦
From a Man on the Spot:—
Australia’s tariff, which mostly doesn’t protect,
is now causing trouble in Customs Minister Tudor’s
own electorate of Yarra, where David Mitchell has
his Portland cement works. Mitchell has hitherto
been naying his kiln-burners Bs. per day and his
laborers 7s. 6d., but last week they asked for in-
creases up to 10s. and 9s. respectively. Some were-
offered Is. per day increase and some 6d., but this
wasn’t considered enough, so a deadlock ensued.
The management notified the members of its staff
that unless they accepted its offer and started work
on Monday morning, the works would be shut down.
The men stood firm, the works are closed, and a
sound is to be heard in the offing like a vast herd of
importers make exceedingly merry and bright.
Mitchell says he could give the increases requested
if he might raise the price of his cement, but directly
he does so the German cement comes in and undersells
him. It may be mentioned that the present duty on
cement is Is. per cwt. —barely 7 per cent. Here,
then, is an example, right under Tudor’s nose, of a
non-protective duty encouraging the foreign manu-
facturer, and either keeping down Australian wages
or throwing the worker idle. What is Tudor going
to do about it?
♦
The Brisbane Worker, in a recent issue,
quoted “an American definition of a scab”
After God had finished the rattlesnake, the toad and
the vampire, He had some awful “substance” left
with which He made a scab. A scab is a two-legged
animal with a corkscrew soul, a water-sogged brain
and a combination backbone made of jelly and glue.
Where other people have their hearts lie carries a
tumor of rotten principles. When the scab comes
down the street honest men turn their backs, the
angels weep tears in Heaven, and the Devil shuts the-
gates of Hell to keep him out. No man has a right,
to scab as long as there is a pool of water deep-
enough to drown his body in, or a rope long enough,
to hang his carcase with. Judas Iscariot was a.
gentleman compared with a scab, for, after betray-
ing his Master, he had enough character to hang:
himself, and a scab has not.
It is very unpleasant, yet, as a definition of
the person who goes back on Labor prin-
ciples, or who goes back on his professed:
principles, whatever they may be, there is
some truth in it. And in that case, what is
to be said of a party which has arbitration on
its programme, and which Iscariots on that
programme and goes in for strikes by way of
preference? And what is to be said of a
Ministry like that of McGowen, which is
pledged up to the hilt to reduction of bor-
rowing, and expenditure of loan money only
upon works which will pay full interest and
sinking fund —what is to be said of it when
it proves to be a scab Government, and
goes back on its alleged Labor principles by
starting the greatest loan jag Australia has
ever seen? It is an interesting point, and
calls for a lot of investigation—especially
in view of the above description of a scab.
As a side issue, the above quotation sets
forth that God made the scab. Considering
the description furnished of that person, it
isn’t a nice thing to say about God.
A meeting in Melbourne has resolved to
pay a public tribute to Mr. Walter Rus-
sell llall, the Mount Morganaire, whose
widow has given a million to charity. Char-
ity being its own reward, this should have
been enough; still, no one could have any
serious objection if it were not agreed' that:
the tribute should take the shape of an oil-
painting of Mr. and Mrs. Walter Hall.
"to be hung in the National Gallery.” A
National Gallery is not a store-house for
“tributes”; it is an institution with the very
definite object of collecting and preserving
fine paintings and drawings, and no picture
should be hun<T there excepting for its
merits. Melbourne streets are full of art
abominations made to order. They should
not be permitted to overflow" into tlnj*
National Gallery.
In ’Ninety Three.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The flight of Capital from Australia has become
so obvious that only the most persistent sort of .folk
pretend, nowadays, not to be aware of it. Ine last
date at which anything dimly resembling the present
movement was observable was in 1891, when t e
historical burst was nearly due It befell, DV
hazard, that the greatest gold output in Australia s
hi story followed close on the heels of a period of
slow recovery from the speculation and smash ot
1893 — a period of bard economy, when people had
learned to make a little go a long way.
Bulletin, 11/7/ 12.
In Eighteen Hundred and Ninety-Three,
When I was a boy at school,
All high finance was as Greek to me.
(At sums I was quite a fool.)
But I remember a grocer’s shop,
And a grocer white with fear,
Who said, as he worked—he dared not stop,
For he was working the whole big shop—
“ Another bank gone to-day, I hear!
A terrible smash ! Oh, dear !
In Eighteen Hundred and Ninety-Three,
’Twas little I knew of banks;
I looked at the grocer wondexingly;
“Tie said: “Put it down? Oh, thanks!
He rushed and wrote in his dog’s-eared book,
In a fierce, despairing way, _
Then gave me a strangely vicious look,
And his honeyed voice with passion shook
As he said: “All right, my boy! Good-
day !
(I hope to the Loiid they'll pay!”)
In Eighteen Hundred and Ninety-Three—
The year of financial doom —
The drear, drab fact was impressed on me
That something had burst—A Boom!
The shop-lined street that the trams went
down
Was shattered and full of moans;
And echoes faint from the smoke-veiled town
Left our sub-world in a study brown;
Men muttered of “Foreign Loans.”
Well I remember that dismal year —
The workers who gave up work,
And stayed at home in their households
drear,
Or gazed at the city’s murk;
They loafed morosely in sunlit parks,
They told of their billets gone,
And wavered back like reluctant sharks,
To brave a servant-wife’s fretful barks,
When the hour of hash drew on.
The place was full of decayed top hats,
And the sign “To-Let” grew wild;
Insolvents fled, and their starving cats
In the night their names reviled ;
Star boarders shone with a holy light,
And their lightest Avords Avere law;
For their money kept the homes upright,
So they were fair in the Missus’s sight,
And their steak Avas never raw.
Some husbands went to “the Golden West.”
(Oh, those packed Westralian boats!)
And some of them died, or “gave it best,”
But the most sent postal notes.
Those days are echoed by men of IaAV
In the calm Divorce Court still:
“Respondent left her in ’Ninety-Four.
She got two letters, then heard no more.”
And, of course, she never will!
Well I remember the buildings high—
On the first floor busted cos.,
Then empty tiers to the empty sky
That mocked as the towers arose.
Their ruined builders Avere grey and lean,
Their shoulders were mostly bowed;
The coats that covered them, too, were
green—•
But plenty of others could be seen
In the shuffling, ill-dressed croAvd.
We didn’t trouble amusements much
In the days of ’Ninety-Three,
And most of us with the stalls lost touch
And took to the gallery;
The “carriage people,” no longer flush,
For the pit made a gallant dash,
And plain folk “bobbed” with the plain old
rush,
And risked their corns in the surging crush,
In the Days of Little Cash.
In Nineteen Hundred and —Avhat Fate wills,
A bit of the past we’ll see 5
We’ve got a file of tremendous bills
Like the bills of ’Ninety-Three;
Our two-flame candle burns very red —
But the hour-glass spills its sands.
'•lnch midnight notv to my restless bed
1 bankrupt grocer who MUST be dead
Comes wringing his cheese-like hands!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


oJjLS&p
READING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident g
Li?e Stock Insurance,
NUGGET
POLISHES
ItATHtu rao* C***'** 1
fo« patent. Glace kid Box
Calt aw> other Leathers.
“elbourn
DOUBLE the LIFE of BOOTS.
Every Concern has a Definite Policy—
<)urs is to entertain large numbers of people by photo-plays
of such excellence, presented in theatres so good, at prices so
reasonable, that to excel us will be out of the question.
ln_less than three years—
We have built six theatres; the Colonial No. 1, Colonial
No. 2, Melba, Lyric, Crystal Palace de Luxe and Britannia.
Our audiences are still growing.
Don’t you consider our policy a success?
u Managing: Director,
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
“Lex,” on the subject of a Dead Trust
I.A| r . r, a - vear ago proceedings were begun by the
federal Government against tne N. S. Wales Coal
Vend. It was alleged against this particular Trust,
amongst other things, that it had unlawfully squeeze!
upwards of £2,000,000 out of the pockets of the
nrA«lri mty ' i W A aS P° s f ble for the authorities to
proceed against the Coal Vend with some prospect
of success feihee it had committed the fatal error
of doing business in more than one State. Had it
confined its depredations to N. S. Wales alone, the
Australian Parliament—by virtue of the Trade and
Commerce clause, which Toryism is so furiously con-
eerned to leave unamended in the Constitution—
wu- u • ave no P° wer whatever to touch it.
Which is another way of saying tnat it would stili
be tearing money off the inhabitants at a tremendous
rate. As things were, however, the Australian Gov-
ernment was aDle to drive home its case to the hilt,
f" d , f° ask for substantial penalties. Despite the
facts that the Vend denied tnat it was, or ever had
been, a vend; denied that it had acted towards tne
public in aught but the most altruistic spirit; denied
tnat it had ruined shipowners and others who nad
come into conflict with it, and about two-score more
charges ol the sort, Justice Isaacs decided against it.
He said the Coal Vend was a vend, and ordered it
Aan C*-i J l6 flned ff' c colliery proprietors
A.1J,000. A wild, eerie wail of protest instantly
arose. Liberalism discovered that Isaacs was a
grossly biassed Judge, who would never have been
allowed to preside over such a trial in an equitably-
governed country. The Vend proclaimed its inten-
tion of appealing to a higher, fairer tribunal. That
was six months ago. The citizen of intelligence
never dreamed that the Vend really meant to waste
its money m an appeal against a judgment which
was palpably sound. And that turns out to be the
case. Last week the colliery proprietors withdrew
a w )eals a! ‘d paid fines and costs totalling
£16,385. A yarn was started by a few sturdv Liberals
that some sort of an arrangement had been entered into
between the Government and the parties to the Vend
whereby, on condition that the proprietors paid up
without further protest, they were to be allowed cer-
tain privileges—amongst others, immunity from
further proceedings under the Anti-Trust Act De-
spite the transparent idiocy of the story, it found
its way into the papers, and evoked a formal denial
from Attorney-General Hughes. And now the Coal
' en £ is reall y dead ; as wholly and utterly defunct
f S rest Australia’s price-raising Trusts should
be. Ihe calamity, from the point of view of the
consumer, lies in the fact that death may be said
to be due to misadventure merely. In the existing
state of the _ Constitution there are few Combines that
can be slain so long as they comport themselves
warily. _ Vhen this country gets sense it will so
amend its Constitution as to give power to its rulers
to slay any injurious combine as dead as the Coal
\;end is to-day.
The Cheerful Persian Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SoiiRAB, a modern Persian poet, in an interview
with a London Times correspondent, contended that
jb country which had excelled in the creation of
literature- and art had perpetuated itself for ever, and
need take no notice of armies and ultimatums.
Because our fathers sang a song,
And wrought in soulful fashion,
We need not bother what goes wrong,
Or what we go to smash on.
We know that art is very long,
And ask no man’s compassion.
We need not learn to carry guns,
Nor find our quiet shaken ;
Though leaden bullets fall in tons
Our pride need never waken;
Eternal as the stars and suns
We dwell of care forsaken.
Though foemen batter down the gate,
We bow not to their thunder;
The most terrific stroke of fate
t We merely stand from under
No conqueror’s march shall e’er abate
A world’s ecstatic wonder.
’Twas here old Omar used to sing,
Here Sohrab now is musing;
We shall not stoop one rock to fling
Though foes our lands are using ;
We do not find this kind of thing
In any way confusing.
We know there really was a day
i Cyrus went campaigning,
Al Wi P<?rsiail monarc hs chose to stray
Where bolts of death were raining ;
Bat now whoever holds the sway
Shall find us uncomplaining.
Perhaps if we had learned to shoot,
And done a bit of drilling,
Our houses had been hard to loot,
Our blood less prone to spilling,
And we had shown the foe our boot
To make his exit willing.
But as it is we do not deign
To weep o’er our bereaving;
Although a lot of us be slain
No sighs the rest are heaving,
fcunce some of us shall still remain
x! or song and carpet-weaving.
We dally not with show or sham,
Our homes are undefended ;
We build upon this epigram :
Least said the soonest mended.”
And no one really cares a damn
How anything is ended.
P.S.
We notice, that Australia stands
In warlike preparation,
* n children’s hands
lhe guns of her salvation;
Her way of doing things commands
Our Persian admiration.
N.S.W.
HAFIZ AL KIDDEN.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
Criterion “ Nightbirds.”
Koyali “Kismet.”
Adklphi .... “ The Bad Girl of the Family.
palace “The Wearing of the Green.”
AIVOLr Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
“ YRIC Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Princess ...., West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Imperial Rink Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMTNG WEEK.
R° y al “ The Blue Bird.”
Her. Majesty’s “ The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s “A Woman of No Importance.”
Kino's “ When London Sleeps.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Glaciarium ice Gliding-.
Athenaeum Hall Repertory Theatre Plays.
The Quinlan Opera Co. opened at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) with Offenbach’s light
opera, “Tales of Hoffmann.” Like the egg
of the humble Pope (lie was only a curate
at the date of the egg, but I hope that he
rose later on to be an archbishop or cardinal
or Pope, so I hereby promote him on spec),
it is good in spots. But a trivial plot that
side-steps the love-making of the amorous
Hoffmann needs all the help it gets from
the admirable Quinlan orchestra. There
“TALES OF HOFFMANN," AT HER
MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY,
Hoffmann (John Coales) and the tragic results
of his " tale-telling” to ladies.
are haunting strains —notably the Barcarolle
in this series of love-episodes. And the
jovial chorus takes the cold chill off the
prologue. Otherwise the “Tales of Hoff-
mann.” which begin in a wine cellar kept by
one M. Luther, and end at the same tap, are
insignificant. . The great opportunity of
snatching this opera from the ruck was
missed by tenor John Coates (Hoffmann) ( a
vocal mediocrity though an actor of much
personal, charm. Lalla Miranda had a poor
chance of showing her operatic vocal frills
as the automatic Olympia. Edna Thorn-
ton, an artist of sound merit, ripped through
the Worst Woman part of Giulietta with
dashing vocal and dramatic skill. Rosina
Beynon, a colorless Nicklaus, was the wine-
bibbmg friend of Hoffmann. The meek
Antonia (Enrichetta O’Nelli) was a pleasing
consumptive. Robert Parker, a basso pro-
tundo of great tonnage, was disguised in
the small part of Dapertutto.
* * * *
“Tannhauser” is the strong meat of the
Guinlan Opera Co. Wagner demands fine
orchestration, and plenty of it. Conductor
lvnoch s tiddlers and horn-boys overflowed
into both stage boxes on Monday night. The
light and shade in the great overture was
served up to the superb time-beat of Enoch,
which cut the air like a sharp knife at the
nnaie. A Y\ agner chorus is a heavyweight
fixture that drains every ounce of tone out
of the singer’s windpipes. Certainty of
attack and accurate intonation, welded into
perfect combination by their perpetual re-
hearsals as a complete company, make the
chorus, work of this opera co. a solid
education. Long-haired local societies ought
to stalk the Wagner nights, in order to
catch the germ of its dashing cleavage of
space. Agnes. Nicholls, a Covent Garden
star of some size (well on the plump side).
is one of the finest Elizabeths this city has
heard since it cut its first operatic teeth.
Sott and graceful in manner, with a voice
which is remarkably sweet, powerful in its
upper register, and true to tone, Agnes
Nicholls scored the first great individual
success of this company to date. John Har-
rison, as Tannhauser, was above the average
love-tossed minstrel who has pursued Venus
m this city from time to time. Venus (Vera
Courtenay) was thin in voice. This remark
also applies to the ladies’ calves, which were
not up to exhibition standard. Mrs. Venus
nngged at Tannhauser in a large grotto
trimmed with draughts and bacchantes.
llUda Morris, who piped her lay as a young
shepherd on a clod of stage earth, was very
dull, and more like a young nursemaid in a
kilt than a male wildling of the flock. As
the Landgrave, Allen Hinckley rolled a huge
bass voice out of his Thuringian whiskers.
o'^ e /; y ! ln /'r.^ llssell (Heinrich) and Edgar
Schofield (Reinmar), Hinckley’s place in
opera is analogous to that of a good stock
actor in a respectable English provincial
company. Wolfram (W. J. Samuell, from
Tafifyland) leapt to the front in a fine vocal
effort, Star of Eve” —the first “Tann-
hauser ’ success of a spineless Wolfram.
“The Bad Girl of the Family” again took
up lodgings at the Adelphi on Saturday
night; but she reallv isn’t bad enough to be
invited to stay for anything more than a
week-end. The most successful conspirators
were Lieut Marsh, 8.N., and Gladys Ers-
kine (Hugh Buckler and Violet Paget),
both of whom did much towards keeping the
weak plot out of the hole into which it
seemed bound to fall. Others who gave a
helping hand were Edmund Page (Barney
Gordon), John Bruce (Lord Erskine, who
tried to pawn his daughter when he got into
a tight corner) and Wilton Welch (Sammy
Snozzle). Jennie Pollock was the girl who
might have been a lot worse, and she and
her friend Sally Smithers (Elwyn Harvey)
are awarded an honorable mention.
fepencer s, of Sydney,
went full speed ahead
nt,„Z ’NiZt **
P A- U . ies of Satuiday s
opening of the Burrin-
juck lnigation canals
screened on Monday
ight. Nobody can find
any fault with the films,
a though they were taken
in 'i H dnil'lliVhf loV T| rS p nd
in a dull light. The Par-
s:
of vehicles from' the’s'ta-
tion to Leeton, the open-
ing of the creamery there,
and, finally, the onen-
ing of the floodgates of
the irrigation canals. The
principal also-ran film
was “Lady Audley’s
Secret,-” the old story of
the English lady who
broke the law to swell her
banking account, and fell
in aunng the process
P S -
The Nightbirds have but three more
weeks to serve in the New-Age Darling-
hurst, and the methods of this model gaol
are attracting crowds of masked burglars
to the Criterion every night.
• ace ’ Allen Doone is still sing-
ing The Wearing of the Green,” in the
play of that name; and, every night since
Saturday, as his first dulcet note spirals up
the welkin, The Bulletin’s Irish barmaid
downs corkscrew and listens at a conveni-
ent ventilator in the vicinity. This is a
good advertisement for Allen'Doone, and a
pleasure to the barmaiden; also, it enables
this family journal to pay its respects to the
composer of the song without ostentation
Cong may it continue.
** * *
There be three things at the Crystal
La lace picture-theatre that make the heart
of man to rejoice. The seats are comfortable,
and of a design which makes overcrowding
impossible; the air is as fresh as that of
Darramatta, 15 miles away; and the pic-
tures are of a high quality as short sketches.
And of these three, the fresh air is the great-
est boon. The ozone is captured from the
upper sky, pumped down into the “Chamber
of the Winds” and then forced through the
piemises at such a rate as to make a com-
pletG change. of atmosphere every five min-
utes. A typical short-story picture at pre-
sent on exhibition is “The Chiropodist.” The
French husband, finding a chiropodist en-
gaged on perfecting his wife’s pretty foot,
goes mad.” The toe-repairer is emptied
out, leaving his tools of trade behind him.
Ihe wife rushes out, and while walking off
her temper in the park, is followed by the
Marquis. !She repels him, but he ‘buys
flowers, follows her home, and sends in his
card. When the lady discovers who the
Marquis is, she orders him to leave. In-
stead of which, the nobleman falls on his
knees before her, and is still there when the
husband enters, anxious to make peace with
his wife. He takes the stranger for the
chiropodist, and decides to have his own
feet carpentered a bit, just to show there
is no animosity; and, to save himself, the
Marquis has to assume the character. A
fearful alternative! The Crystal Palace
has introduced a full orchestra for the after-
noon sessions ; and this, and the presence of
a gorgeously fitted winter-garden where re-
freshments can be obtained, and other etcet-
eras, are all very alluring.
Lyla Thompson, the Waldrons (one of
whom provides a merciless portrait of the
type of idiot burglar with which Sydney has
ate )f tl ie Rogers quartette,
and Olga Montez, are among those who have
been helping to keep the wolf from the box-
ofhce of the National Amphitheatre these
cold nights. Despite rotten weather, and
the staging of such rival turns as Wheeler
and Dill in their great Rome-defying Act at
the Town Hall, and C. G. Wade, Liberalism’s
Howling Joke (also at the Town Hall),
the animal of destitution is being staved
off with ease.
The shining countenance and the talented
teet o t cakewalker Charles Johnson drift
across the Tivoli stage this week. Unless the
livolian turns promptly after reading this
notice, he will only discern the disappearing
heels of one who is swept joyously through
fife on the waves of “ragtime.” The acro-
batic Hans Paxton troupe and juggler
Charles Hera are also suspected of having
packed their trunks. Other programme
providers who are not on the verge of de-
parture are Alec Hurley, coster impersona-
tor, JNiagara and Falls, comedy acrobats,
h rank Sidney and co., and the Webb Bro-
thers, musical clowns. Also, there is the
local Fred Bluett, who draws his stage
mouth with the long-distance brush of the
scenic artist.
Kismet curses outside the old address,
whmh is the Mosque of the Carpenters at
Bagdad Royal -or rather he curses
around the. exterior of the paper Mosque
at the painted simulacrum or cardboard
pretence or cigarette-paper phantom of
Bagdad at Sydney Royal. Hajj, who
is the beginning, most of the middle and
a good deal of the end of “Kismet,” has
been there for four weeks, saying dreadful
things about his enemies, trying to float his
wild Bagdad cat on his friends, and generally
leading the. strenuous Arabian life. Anil
the date of his vanishment, departure or
disappearance into thin air is not yet fixed.
***.-»
Jansen, who can make anything smaller
than an elephant vanish into thin air,
has happened at Adelaide Exhibition, the
mayoral ball decorations, which had for two
evenings made it a dream, being hastily torn
down to make room for him. The Tivoli is
best supported by “Tiny” Arnold, with saucy
songs; the hard-working Reg Went-
worth; and Ardo, the inhuman Frog. At
the King s, the Wynford brothers do jump-
mg feats, marvellous but mostly seen before •
? Q n , d he Jf rsi xf? girls are a smart and taking
team. The Night Side of London,” at the
Royal, resembled “The Sign of the Cross”
QUINLAN GRAND
OPERA , AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
“ LOHENGRIN.”
JOHN
COATES
AS
LOHENGRIN.
and other highly moral dramas in taking a
good long look at Vice by way of showing
how beautiful Virtue is. A “Redskin” play
succeeds it, with Nellie Bramley as the In-
dian girl, and George Cross as Bronco Bill,
lhe picture-show business is getting strenu-
ous. In addition to the new Pav., which is
open all day, and offers a mouthful of good
picture for the price of a drink, there is a
new Central, roomy and well-filmed; but
Wondergraph (which is building) and West’s
(rebuilt) and the Empire do not seem any
the worse. Empire and Central and King’s
by the way, all cluster round Victoria


BOH
fllSfl. t *&r ' !
p!fc Ihzz?
Sss*4(#
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
exclusively.
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
15,000 Miles Non-Stop Run
World’s Record.
Siddeley Deasy
i Detachable Wire Wheels.
! SILENT KNIGHT ENGINE.
Lanchester Cantilever Springs.
Bosch Dual Ignition.
SOLE
AUSTRALIAN
AGENTS
Sunshine
Motor
Propty.
Car
Ltd.
H. V . McKay,
Managing Director,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Square, which has long been considered an
out-of-the-way part, but is at last coming into
its rights.
** * *
“The Quaker Girl” has travelled far since
she paid her Australian footing in Sydney,
six months ago, and it was only on Satur-
day last that she reached Melbourne. For
the next few weeks Her Majesty’s will give
shelter to an exiled Bonapartist Princess of
these hobble-skirted days, who fell among
English Quaker villagers of a bygone age,
and married a King’s Messenger without
QUINLAN GRAND
OPERA , AT HER
MAJESTY'S ,
MELBOURNE.
“AIDA.”
CHARLES
MAGRATH AS
THE KING
OF EGYPT.
permission of the Government that ruled
France, under the patronage of Prince
Carlo, at some period unknown —probably
the distant future. “The Quaker Girl” is
full of political mystery, police unintelli-
gence and irresponsible complications. An
alleged Parisian dressmaker (Miss Grace
Palotta) is mistress of the ceremonies for a
while, and all the time a lunatic young
Quaker (Bertie Wright) gambols aimlessly
through the proceedings. Also, one Tony
Chute, of the American Embassy (Leslie
Holland) figures as a serio-comic hero, en-
chanted by a Quakeress (Miss Blanche
Browne) attached to the Princess, who is
attached to the dressmaker aforesaid. These
young people—Tony and Prudence—bear no
imprint of probability. They are hollow
creatures of musical comedy, yet their sud-
den mutual affection, their misunderstand-
ings, and their freaks of emotion are ex-
pected to be taken seriously. And what they
lack all the other characters lack —save
Bantock, the minor Quaker ancient in a for-
bidding hat. They possess no strain of
human interest, no tinge of realism. Their
antics invite the larf of indolence, whilst
the tinkly music of Monckton tickles the
lazy ear, even as pinches of snuff appeal to
the callous nose.
Taken altogether, it is a passably good
musical comedy of the bulldog breed. It
has particular moments, such as the “Take-a
Step” duet and the Champagne Dance —by
Ivy Schilling, Leslie Holland, and incidental
ballerinas —which last is artistic in concep-
tion and performance. For that matter,
everybody’s dancing is good. But, being void
of feeling, the piece has no heart to carry its
weight of incident, nor are the voices strong
enough to lift the music above its natural
level. The entertainment drags somewhat in
parts, although it is cut into three acts.
These things need a dominating personality.
Grace Palotta, as the dressmaker, is a grace-
ful mannerist of some importance, but her
manner is excessive in this case, and not
quite fitted to the motherly character. Leslie
Holland’s spry grotesqueness is associated
with a rather exhausted voice, whilst Fred
Leslie is rasping in speech, but labored in his
extravagance. The new young lady (Miss
Jessie Lonnen) is very like a mimic of Miss
Browne, wherefore it is presumed that both
young ladies took the same other young lady
for their model—in Britain. Wright is
funny only when his strenuous endeavors
are not more apparent than the effects he
achieves. Frank Greene, as the blessed
Prince with, the cheap waltz ditty, is en-
crusted with theatrical affectations, and in
his appearance he resembles Higginson.
They are alike, even in their style of oiling
their hair. There is one great point of dif-
ference between them, however. Greene is
apt to wave himself about when he desires
to be impressive, whereas Higginson stands
stock still and waves his hat. Miss Ivy
Bickford is tuneful and unremarkable as the
.Princess, formerly played by Olive Godwin,
and several others pale by comparison with
the picturesque chorus and fittings.
** * *
One of the Andersonian dramas that has
withstood the inclemency of criticism for
countless seasons is “When London Sleeps,”
now undergoing further revival at the King’s
for a fortnight only. Many newer bellow-
dramas have tried to be more amazing than
this, and have failed in their awful enter-
prise. In the story of how the evil Captain
pursued the Queen of the Wire, and was ulti-
mately euchred by the Star of the Air, every-
thing happens except a peaceful episode, it
is loaded with surprises that custom cannot
stale. When Cyril Mackay comes to the
rescue of Miss Duggan from the bowels of a
heathen god in the last act, the audacity of
the situation seems as good as new, although
the graven image has been yielding up its
human contents for about 15 years. Other
houses of ill-fame have crumbled to decay
in the meantime, but Helliwell Mansion
stands where it did in the beginning. Also,
Queenie’s Bedchamber is the shrine of a
virtue that beams on the sleeping city with
undiminished lustre. The Bulletin wishes
to speak reverently of all these things. It
remembers them, like the Sabbath Day, to
keep them holy.
* H= ❖ *
“A Woman of No Importance” continues
in its third week at the Princess’s, to raise
the question whether Oscar Wilde was really
indulging his occasional Wowser mood when
he wrote the comedy, or was pulling Mrs.
Grundy’s limb with both hands. In either
case the moral lesson can be commended to
all right-thinking persons of either sex.
Which view of the matter has, seemingly,
presented itself rather late in the day to the
management that quoted O. Wilde’s cynic-
isms in the advt. before getting on to his
copybook maxims. The management should
lose no further time in calling attention to
the fact that the good young man of the
piece, after denouncing his illegitimate
father (Titheradge) as a blackguard, who
ought to be killed on the spot, desires to
marry him to his long-suffering “victim” in
order to make her respectable. This certifi-
cate to the purifying influence of matri-
mony as a holy rite deserves to be framed
and glazed.
** * *
West (Melbourne) has been illustrating
his screen with “A Woman’s Martyrdom,” a
long story of domestic happiness, which, as
a flickergraphic item, lacks “a punch.” Pro-
bably the yarn would better grip the eye of
the body politic if the misdeeds of its princi-
pal villain had the virtues of brevity and
common-sense. “The Old Silver Watch” is
a stirring drama, and is calculated to arouse
the tear of sensibility—the one which the
siren wiped from Milton Perkins’s eye, and
which, as Bret Harte declared, “has salted
many a claim.” “The Indian Mail Rob-
bery” is a detective tale, and “Paris (in
Natural Colors)” gives an abundance of
sights in the City of Laughter. The allegedly
comical “Tontolini, Gamekeeper,” demon-
strates nothing of any importance. To speak
the naked truth, if one may speak with no
clothing on, it makes this writer tired.
** * *
Last week the P’ran Lyric (Vic.) supplied
its clients with song and stories, the song
being Tosti’s “Good-Bye,” by a local
warbler, about whom this paper suppresses
its feelings. The stories were of the usual
character, and included “The Blue Bird,”
which is a bright production of Maeter-
linck’s phantasy, lacking only the language
to make it charming. “Business or Crime”
is also worth a compliment. An unusually
pleasing comedy is “Her Forgotten Danc-
ing Shoes,” and an exemplary item is the
tale of “The Hobo.” Said Hobo, being pri-
marily knocked over by Grog, finally takes
to sober courses, marriage, kids and unob-
trusive piety.
* * * *
The nights of “The Blue Bird” are num-
bered at Melbourne Royal, and all those
people who have not yet exercised their
minds in the Land of Memory, or feasted
their eyes on the Palace of Madge Mcln-
tosh, are advised to hurry up ere the Symbol
of Happiness has vanished from the bill. It
were better to have seen Maeterlinck’s fan-
QUINLAN GLAND
OPERA , AT HER
MAJESTY’S ,
MELBOURNE.
“AID AT
JOHN COATES
AS RADAMES.
tastic play without feeling its charm than
not to have witnessed it at all. Nobody is
too stupid to find beauty in the scenery, or
to understand the significance of Night's
melancholy allusion to Cold in the Head.
“The Blue Bird” goes hence to roost on
Friday, the 26th, and then Bernard Shaw's
intensely droll comedy, “You Never Can
Tell,” will be produced for a few nights.
The de Cisneros Concert Co. opened its
Melbourne season at the municipal refriger-
ating chamber on Saturday night. Although
denied the assistance of the scene-painter
and a bodyguard of Philistine flappers, there
was a suggestion of the trappings of grand
opera in the gorgeous haberdashery of the
Amazonian prima donna. At times it was
unfortunate that there was not also a sug-
gestion of a grand opera orchestra, the need
for which was especially strong when the
lady gave a homoeopathic dose of the Call
of Brunhilda, from “The Valkyrie,” and
completely vanquished her excellent accom-
panist, Harold Whittle. “Will o’ the Wisp”
and a setting by Frank Tours of Kipling’s
“Mother o’ Mine” were popular items, which,
however, did not appeal to this paper as
forcibly as Paul Dufault’s contributions.
The tenor’s rich voice and beautifully clear
enunciation are things to be grateful for,
whether heard in pretty trifles such as Har-
riet Ware’s “Boat Song” (the rippling ac-
companiment played in capital style by the
unobtrusive Whittle), or in Henley’s violent
declamation to the effect that he is (or was)
the captain of his own soul. The remain-
ing member of the company is James Lieb-
ling, a soulful-looking ’cellist who plays up
to his appearance. So great is this paper’s
respect for Mr. Liebling that it would not
dream of referring to him as Jimmy, even
in its most friendly moments.
* * * *
At the Opera House, last week-end, a new
“first part” was unveiled with befitting
solemnity. The responsibility for this occur-
rence, billed as “Hiawatha,” is attributed
to no fewer than seven (7) specified indivi-
duals, and divers unnamed “assistants” are
darkly adumbrated. Fred Russell, a ven-
triloquist not unknown to these parts, who
has returned with a couple of remarkably
good models ; the De Serris company, whose
living pictures appear to be increasing in
popularity; Rich and Rich, the Stavordale
Quintet, and Vivian and Alton are endeavor-
ing to keep the programme in a perpendicu-
lar position.
S* "i*
Gregan McMahon’s Repertory Co. starts
another of its occasional seaspns at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall to-night (Thurs-
day) with a revival of Arnold Bennett’s
“What the Public Wants.” On Saturday
comes “The Seagull” by the moody Russian
dramatist, and on Tuesday the new comedy
by Louis Esson will be introduced to Aus-
tralian notice. Esson’s “The Time Is Not
Yet Ripe” is declared to be a remarkably
well-informed play of up-to-date local poli-
tics, and should attract the rival Leagues as
a magnet draws a pin. The Repertory box
plan is at the Pianola C“. and the Book
Lovers’ Library.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The cold breath of winter whistled through the
Wilson Hall during the University At Home. After
being gently chid by the president for not dropping
in more often, Governor Fuller rambled agreeably
about the deeds of Melba, who sat in the front row,
wearing a bright smile and some nice warm clothes.
Pretty Sylvia Ffrench nestled at her distinguished
elbow. The Fuller lady, in a burnished gown that
shone like a beetle’s wing, had finished herself off
with a, wreath of golden oak leaves as top-dressing.
She hastily wrapped her lord’s sciatica-ed understand-
ings in a fine fur garment when he had done his
speechifying, whilst Melba, gorgeously arrayed in
turquoises, diamonds and a cloak of minor import-
ance, hovered anxiously round with offers of more
wraps. Bigjolm Forrest’s solid form, muffled in
warm red cloth, looked like a pillar of cloud by day
and of fire by night. His dame cast envious glances
at his toga, and the lean University kine would have
swapped drayloads of Latin roots for a brief yard
or two. Anne Williams, whose voice has the coveted
Melba certificate of approval, warbled at intervals
about nice but superfluous winds and breezes, and Mrs,
Franklin Peterson kept herself in a glow by handing
round complimentary vegetables.
“Theorbo”: The Quinlan “Tales of Hoffmann,”
almost exceptionally popular, have made admirers
want to know about the real man. He was lawyer,
caricaturist, painter, novelist and musician, and a
striking success at each. He was born in 1776.
First made his mark as painter and musician. Next
he drew attention to his versatility by a novel, en-
titled “Conaro.” After that he gave himself up to
a legal career at Glogau, and afterwards pursued his
six-and-eightpence in Berlin. Then, he scintillated in
Posen, whence he was driven by the bitterness of his
caricatures. He lived next in Warsaw—this was in
1804—-and there he was devoted to Art, notably
music. His concertos, quartettes and symphonies
were all good. After another spell in Berlin (appar-
ently not in pursuit of the 6/8 this time), he settled
down for a whole five years as musical director of
the theatre at Bamberg. Here his writing began to
develop into those forms of genius that remain. The
first of his notable tales (all his tales were short) is
“Master Martin and His Three Workmen,” written in
the “Faust” region at Nuremberg. About 1813 he was
a good deal identified with Leipsic and Dresden. The
prologue to Offenbach’s opera shows Auerbach’s wine
cellar in Leipsic, a favorite haunt of Hoffmann. It
is introduced, too, in “Faust.” Lastly, in the way of
drudging work, he had some legal experience in Ber-
lin, and died there in 1822. Those of his tales that
we can get hold of in English are all splendid read-
ing. Among the good ones, rare in translation, are
“The Magnetiser,” “Sufferings of a Theatrical Man-
ager,” “Kreisleriana,” “Mademoiselle Scuderi,” “Murr
the Oat” and “Master Flea.”
“Vulcan”: lie the proposal to add a dramatic
branch to Sydney’s suggested, but unbuilt, academy
of fine arts. The Chair of Dramatic Construction at
Harvard University (U.S.A.) has produced some sue- •
cessful Yankee playwrights. Edward Sheldon, author
of “Salvation Nell,” is one case in point, and Edward
Knoblauch, of “Kismet,” is another.
“The Spasmodic One” sends a few Hamlets to go
on with: Beerbohm Tree, the actor ; Matheson Lang,
the gentleman ; H. B. Irving, the scholar; Forbes-
Robertson, the Hamlet. I agree with Ellen Terry
that Henry Irving’s production was the best known,
as witness its 200 nights on end. Next comes Edwin
Booth’s, a sublimation of Barry Sullivan’s —workman-
like and human. Charles Kean’s was excellent and
graceful. Montgomery, in the flaxen wig (Mel-
bourne’s fad), copied the French Fechter, of German
extraction, though born in Whitechapel. Jlrooke,
Phelps, Creswick and Anderson were too heavy.
Edwin Adams had the pathos. Dampier’s was sound,
honest acting, in face of every natural deficiency ex-
cept the mind! Nor do I despise Bentley, Fair-
clough and Jimmy Howe. Bandmann made one think
of purring cats and fiddles. Miln was more than
pretty good. Australia has seen four woman Ham-
lets —Rose Evans, Cleveland, Pomeroy and Rose
Edouin. Sally Heartburn acted Hamlet even; in
Stratford!
“Harrison O.”: The more I see of these stage
allegories the less I am impresed by them. When
much “guff” is written about the “hidden meaning”
of a play, it is generally safe to assume that the
thing is meaningless, or nearly so. Take “The Blue
Bird.” Two youngsters (who presumably stand for
humanity—Omar’s “little children stumbling in the
dark”) go in quest of this fowl, which typifies Hap-
piness. They find the bird in the Land of Memory
(a foggy place where corpses come to life and exude
bathos), and take it away; but as soon as they cease
to think of their deceased relatives, the children dis-
cover that their gaudy captive has turned black.
Moral (a): The quick cannot hope for happiness un-
less their thoughts are continually centred upon the
dead. However, the play must go for a couple more
acts, so the youngsters search for some more Blue
Bird, and find it in a menagerie kept by a Mrs.
Night. They catch the fowl, but it promptly dies;
whereupon they are informed by one of the characters
that the fowl cannot live in daylight. Moral (6) :
Happiness can exist only in darkness; which is a
strictly Anti-Wowser, not to say excessively Pagan,
view. But there is still time for another act, so
the kids return home and find another Blue Bird,
which flies away two minutes after it is caught.
Moral (c) : Verily I say unto you it is easier for a
Fatman to pass through the scent of a camel than for
a poor human to capture happiness in this vale of
beers; which certainly leaves a mournful taste in
the mouth. Having unearthed these three “hidden
meanings,” I would be glad to know what Maeter-
linck is driving at, anyhow.
(Continued on page 30.)
THE SPRING STREET VAUDEVILLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The debate on the censure motion was continued
in the House of Representatives, etc., etc.
—Frequent press item.
Quit your raving o’er Protection ;
What’s the good of lookin’ sour?
Time enough for sad reflection,
Let’s be merry for an hour.
Never mind the Referendum,
Claims and rights, and laws and such ;
Let some other chap defend ’em ;
We’ve been grieving over-much.
Let the other fellow worry;
Banish care, and let’s go gay,
And with me to Spring-street hurry—
Come along and see the play!
[advertisement.]
VAUDEVILLE ! ! VAUDEVILLE !! !
SPRING STREET PLAYHOUSE (on the Hill).
Positively last appearance,
Of the great Freetection Troupe,
In the Playlet—“SOPS OR SOUP.”
Just before the final clearance,
See the famous Fusion-disher,
ANDY FISHER, ANDY FISHER,
Who for public favor bids
With his latest—“QUlDS FOR KIDS.”
ALFRED DEAICIN, ALFRED DEAKIN,
Come and hear this marvel spealcin’!
Alf, the Human Gramophone,
In his act—“GIMME THAT BONE!”
BILLY HUGHES, BILLY HUGHES,
Here’s a treat you should not lose!
He’s the life of all the show: —
“TRUSTS I’VE BUST—OR NEARLY SO."
WILLIE KELLY, WILLIE KELLY,
Gets you shaking like a jelly
With his quaint absurdity—
“PEßFECT TASTE, OR LOOK AT ME.”
KINK O’MALLEY, KINK O’MALLEY,
And his Bounding Rooster Ballet: —
“Meet me on the Cotter’s shore —
When it rains a little more.”
JOSEPH COOK, JOSEPH COOK,
“I’ll get there by Ilooh or Crook!”
See his great Impersonation—-
“COOK! the man who made the nation!”
Screaming Farce, “THE UNNAMED FUSE,”
Led by Cook and Billy Hughes,
Which includes the Great Illusion,
“FREETRADE FREAKS”; or “What is
Fusion?”
Ending with, “A TRUST BETRAYED” ;
Or, “HURROO FOR FOREIGN TRADE!”
Come and see this Funny Play!
Change of Programme ev’ry day.
Hear the song—“WILL VOTERS ROUSE?”
(Box plan at the Customs House.)
What’s the use of gettin’ savage?
It is vain to raise a row!
What if Foreign Traders ravage?
We can’t mend these matters now!
We shall have our chance to mend ’em
Later, on election day.
Meanwhile, to the Devil send ’em—
Come along and see the Play!
VICTORIA.
DEN.


h
SAC SUITS TO ORDER,
AT SALE TIME,
56/9
OUR FAMOUS 63/= SAC SUITS.
Thp Sale closes on Saturday, 20th July, and an order placed during
these remaining days will be executed at a saving of 6/3 to you. Every
suit possesses the highest characteristics of quality and finish, cut and
tailoring—and are made from fine quality English, Irish, Scotch and
Australian Tweeds; rough Marine Serge, pure Indigo dye; Grey
Flannels; medium Grey, Dark Grey, Darkest Clerical Grey, Cambridge
Grey, and Oxford Grey Vicunas. Grey, Brown, Blue and Green striped
effects are also well represented, also our special D.J. Serge—pure
Indigo and soft Twill, made to measure
Usual Price, 63/= ; SALE PRICE, 569
Be sure to place your order before the Sale closes, Saturday, 1 p.m.,
and remember we pay carriage on Suits to any part of Australasia.
DAVID JONES Ltd.
Opp. C.P.0., SYDNEY.
T i' v
i
'•fkh,
lfl ppy when you ta v6 0
Comfort
For One - Peraty- Farthing per day!
Warm Your Home with a
Perfection Oil Heater"
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. L.d.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
MATTER OVER MIND.
SHE: “I am practising mind reading.”
IT : “Palmistry is more satisfying.”
SHE: “ How so?”
IT : “ Well, when you are practising it you are
at least certain your subject has a palm.”
There were 352 contract immigrants ad-
mitted into Australia last year. Of these
332 were British, 17 German, two French
and one Austrian. The fiery Hun was a
gem-cutter, and will shout in his sulphurous
canopy accordingly. Of the others 181 were
laborers for the sugar industry, 36 were shirt
machinists, 20 were cabinet-makers, 19 were
jewellery-mounters, and 14 bottle-makers.
The remainder at latest information were
tearing a crust out of bracelet-making, dia-
mond-setting, flower-making, hollow-curb
chain-making, jewellery-stamping, locket-
making, motor tyre-making, piano-fitting,
ring-making, signal-fitting, spring-fitting,
weaving, spinning and a few other trades
that have begun to spread themselves, and
require only the Government’s kind attention
to the tariff wall to leap uproariously.
On the testimony of the lately-delivered
N.S.W. School Inspectors’ reports for 1911,
the Cow curse is just about as vigorous as
ever: —
One day in March last year a well-grown and ap-
parently strong lad of 121 years of age arrived at
school a few minutes before the morning recess. He
was told to join the others of his class on the floor
as they marched out. Almost immediately they saw
him fall, and, had he not been assisted, he would
have strut X the floor. He had fainted. Twenty min-
utes later, after recovering, he was questioned by
the teacher, and this was his morning’s work before
he reached school: Rose shortly after five o’clock, had
something to eat, brought in the cows, milked 13 of
them, helped to feed the calves and pigs and to wash
the separator, and then walked over three miles to
school. He was no weakling, yet so taxing had been
his labors since 5 a.m. that he fainted shortly after
arriving.
Another ordinary circumstance :
In a second class was a boy nearly 13 years old.
tie was very backward, and really unfit even for the
class he was in. He was very irregular in his attend-
ance, and rarely at- school before 11 o’clock. This
boy’s work began every day at 4.30, when, after eat-
ing his breakfast, he went out mustering. There
were 40 cows on the farm, and of these he milked 12.
He also assisted at other work before starting for
the school, over two miles away. This boy, his elder
brother (T 7 years old) and two others younger than
himself were working this dairy farm of 40 cows,
yielding cream to the value of from £25 to £3O
per month, on the share system. Of home comforts
they had none; they cooked their own food, and
looked after the house themselves. The parents
lived at a distance of 16 or 18 miles, near to a
town, the father being a market gardener.
Perhaps that second circumstance isn’t quite
so ordinary as most, inasmuch as four young-
sters, of 17 downwards, don’t often go share-
farming with 40 cows. It’s to be hoped so,
anyway. Youngsters with pluck enough to
take it on deserve something better than
such slavery, and Australia should see that
they get it. This country just can’t afford
to go on feeding its infant grit to the great
Moloch —Cow.
Grant Hervey appears annoyed about
something:—-
I rise to nominate Fenshurst, in the western dis-
trict, for a special prize as the champion mean town
of Victoria. No showman is allowed to display a
playbill unless he pays a fee for the privilege of
exhibiting same, and allows the rubber stamp of
approval of the local Traders’ Ass. to be whacked
upon. it. The Ass. doesn’t do a darn thing in return
for its fee. It simply collects the money and allows
the bills to be displayed. Likewise, the dairymen
of the Penshurst district are not allowed to sneeze
without the landlord’s consent. The landlord’s
rubber stamp has to be whacked on every transaction
that the Penshurst cow-idolator signs, whether it be
an IO U, P.N., or other fearsome palimpsest. The
landlord does nothing in return for the money but
whirl the rubber stamp. He simply allows the moo-
worshipper to hang his cows on four legs—-except
when they lie down, when I presume they are
charged extra —on the surface of the landlord’s pro-
perty.
This disease —call it rubberstampitis for short—-
is like tuberculosis. It is transmitted from the
landlord, who allows the cow to eat and breathe, to
the tenant who rushes Polly into the filthy bail,
whence the germs are forwarded on to the inverte-
brates, who form the aforementioned Ass. Recently the
Ass. held a meeting to discuss the advisability of
changing the weekly half-holiday from Wednesday to
Saturday. Some abject insect got up and breathed
the painful query: “Would Saturday please the
stations ?” Then many associated lobsters fell on
their knees and knocked their skulls on the ground.
It was unanimously agreed that it would Never Do
to take action without consulting the Associated
landhogs.
Apart from the curse of landlordism, the shadow
of old Mount Rouse hangs over the muddy lanes of
Penshurst —one cannot call them streets—like a
snufflebuster’s benediction, or a bennebuster s snuffle-
diction, or some old thing of the same bennesnuffle
variety. Some little time ago, maybe 15,000
years, Mount Rouse used to be in the
volcano business. On behalf of sundry brother show-
men, who, like me, have been bitten by the arrogantly
abject Penshurst Ass., I suggest that it is about time
for Mount Rouse to go into the brimstone business
again, and blow Penshurst and its landlords and its
alternately whining and vociferating Ass. half-way
to Scotland, where the original Forty Thieves came
from.
One “Anglo-Australian” complained in the
S. M. _ Herald the other day about prices.
He said that in 1823 wheat in Sydney sold
at 4s. 10s. per bushel, which may, or may
not, be true. The only table of wheat prices
that the writer has by him doesn’t go
further back lhan 1838, and it declares
solemnly that in that year wheat cost Bs. 9d.
per bushel in Sydney, while in 1839 it cost
265. per bushel. Then “Anglo-Australian”
says that the 21b. loaf sold in Sydney during
1823 at 3jd. This scribe has loaf figures
going back as far as 1820, and they declare
that the regular price in 1823 was 3id., and
that butter was 2s. 2d. per lb. Nowadays,
said, or says, or alleged, or asseverates
“Anglo-Australian,” with wheat at 4s,
3d. per bushel (the daily newspaper, on dav
of writing, says 4-s. 41d.) the loaf costs 3fd.
(This writer lives in a hash-tower and
doesn’t know what the loaf costs, but he will
ask his landlady as soon as he gets home.)
The argument, of course, was, or is, or am.
or were, or is liable to be, that the pre-
sent-day worker is rapacious. And he is. in
comparison with the baker of 1823. Then
the operative bread-banger was usually an
“assigned servant” who got rations and one
suit of clothes a year. Present scribe has the
record of a baker in Sydney who was trans-
ported from a Yorkshire town for stealing a
bag of flour—first offence. He worked for
years without any other remuneration than
that described above. Finally, he got his
ticket, started for himself, and became one
of the leading men in the dough business in
the colony.
“The poor ye have always with you”—
thank Heaven! But for them the bottom
would drop out of a whole lot of our worst
excuses. For instance, the other day a
Richmond (Vic.) shopkeeper was charged
for the severalth time with selling cases of
apples, 30 per cent, of which were scabby
and diseased. Being his manyth conviction
he could hardly excuse himself on the ground
of ignorance or inadvertence, so he pleas-
antly assured the Bench that he never meant
to sell the rubbish, but intended to “give it
to the poor.” And a soulless Bench, with
no regard for the delicate feelings of a philan-
thropist, fined him £2.
DOUBLY EXPENSIVE.
FORTUNE TELLER : “ You vill marry a woman of fifty ”
CLIENT: “Great Scott! Fifty! Couldn't you make it, say, two at twenty-five?
FORTUNE TELLER : “ Veil, you would have to pay more."
A lovely illustration of O’Callaghan’s
management of the Victorian police force
happened the other week in the case of a
senior-constable at the Melbourne head-
quarters. Sundry charges against the delin-
quent were held to be proved, and the in-
spector recommended that he be fined 50s.
and reduced from the rank of senior-con-
stable (which he had held for five years) to
that of plain ditto. O’Gallaghan accepted this
suggestion as a satisfactory compromise. The
man who was judged—by an inspector— -to
be unfit to rank as a senior-constable is
merely put back instead of being thrown out.
A veil of silence was dropped on the charges
that caused his disrating. The public has to
be content with the knowledge that one of
O’Callaghan’s discredited senior-constables
is considered quite good enough to be a plain
cop.
“Lawlight” : “Chasuble” (B. 11/7/T2) re-
gards the arrangement of the Archbishop
Clarke v. Norton case as a settlement
whereby Canon Nash was a sufferer. Others
may think that Nash was lucky. The
arrangement which gave him no chance to
defend himself saved him from the possi-
bility of a damaging cross-examination, and
hustled him out of the limelight which
streamed upon all the circumstances of the
case. Old scandal followed him from Eng-
land to Australia, and new scandal drove
him from one parish to another after he got
to work in this country. And all the scandal
reflected on the Church which continues to
employ him. The Clarke v. Norton case was
a revelation to people who had thought that
Nash must be a calumniated parson, or he
would not have continued to retain the
Church’s confidence. Now it appears that
the Church knew or says it knew
things to his discredit which the pub-
lic did not know —things which, if true,
argue his unfitness for his particular job.
Heaven forbid that Nash should be branded
a bad man! But one may be a bright,
warm-hearted fellow without being a desir-
able sky-pilot. If the maxim “noblesse
oblige” holds good, the maxim “professional
holiness obliges” holds even better.
* * * *
From the Oldest Inhabitant
A Sydney property with some history to it changed
hands last week —Carthona, Darling Point, on the
water’s edge. It was built 70 years ago by Thomas
Livingstone Mitchell, Surveyor-General and explorer;
his crest and motto are chiselled in the front of the
building. After Mitchell’s death, in 1855, the house
was in various hands till 1900, when Ilarrv Rickards
bought it —and sold it at a fine profit. The grounds
comprise four acres, the most of which will be cut
up and auctioned. In Mitchell’s time, Carthona was
the only house on the Point.
“N. or M.”: Hyde (N.S.W.) is a queer
old suburb with an ancient cemetery, some
of whose tombstones date back over 100
years. The aged boneyard has been closed
for some time, but old inhabitants refuse to
be buried elsewhere, and stipulate to that
effect in their wills. The funeral takes
place, the undertaker’s fine goes into the bill,
and all is peace. The fine being £5 for the
first offence, and more for subsequent ones, it
is economical to select your undertaker, and
it is now a question whether the supply of
old inhabitants' or unfined undertakers will
give out first.
“Tumumu”: The road hogs, white and
brown, of Maoriland, were handed some-
thing to think over with the morning papers
recently. A Maori youth named Ivuka
Matene Ropiha, chief of a prominent
Hawkes Bay tribe, and a landed proprietor
of importance and great acreage, decorated
himself with fire-water and put the leaves of
the rum shrub in his hair, and took three
natives (a man, a woman and a girl) for a
joy-ride or a speed test or something. Any-
how, while whooping things up at the top of
his voice, and exceeding the speed limit and
every other known substance, he managed
to overturn the vehicle, with the result that
the man and the woman were killed. In
sending the young buck to a reformatory for
12 months, Chief Justice Stout expressed
the hope that great benefit would accrue to
road hogs all round. What he especially
urged the young whooper-up to remember was
that when a man buys a car he doesn’t also
buy the road, the adjacent population and
the cemetery.
NO MISTAKE ABOUT IT.
“By the way, sir,” asked the waiter, “how
would you like to have your steak?”
"Very much, indeedreplied the mild man who
had been patiently waiting forty minutes.
ENGLAND’S HOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Owing’ to the likelihood of attacks being made on
the Prime Minister by suffragettes, the National
Liberal Club has abandoned its intention of giving
a reception to Mr. Asquith on Friday next. — Cable.
While Mr. Asquith was attending the Liberal
Colonial Club reception at Lord Glenconner’s town
house yesterday, he was seized by two suffragettes,
who attempted to give him a shaking.— Cable.
Yesterday Mr. Lloyd George was seized and
assaulted by a band of suffragettes.— Cable.
One time a Minister was proud,
And walked with splendid dignitee—
An Agamemnon in the crowd
Who gathered close about to see
How grand a mortal man might be.
Now, chancing on a hunted wight
Who’s shinning up a parapet,
His face well clawed and wild with fright,
You sigh for Asquith taking flight
From some insurgent suffragette.
See down the street the leader spins,
With flying hair and starting eyes,
While angry dames on nimble shins
Assail his backward parts with pins,
And drive him frantic with their cries.
The foremost statesman put to shame,
His false teeth lying with his hat,
All scratched and torn, while girls acclaim,
Is shaken by a ribald dame
As any mastiff shakes a cat.
So fades the pride of English man,
But there is hope for England yet;
If one brave British male could / “tan”
A dozen of a foreign clan,
No score of any race could fret
The splendid English suffragette!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Rich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
V/tfi
0
What’s'
put
in
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the 11 Pure Food Act, 1908/
by Lever Brothers Limited
Sydney. N.S.W.
No. 57.
An All the Year Round
Sweater 6/6.
We recommend this Sweater because it is
particularly good value. Not being of ex-
cessive weight this garment will prove of
service through the four seasons.
Made from pure wool —cable knitted —
with roll collar, it fits the body comfortably,
and has practically every merit of the higher
priced article.
In white and Navy and Heather colors,
G/6 each, posted 9d. extra.
Please state waist and chest measure-
ments when ordering.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
PEAPES~& CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309-11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
y:
\\l]i
m
jp
Thus Mrs. Hay, wife of the Salv’army
boss in Australia, orating on Prime Minister
Fisher’s scheme for a maternity allowance:
£5 was to be paid to the mother on the birth of
every child, and this would apply to the mothers of
illegitimate children. She could not help feeling stung.
Was this to be an approval and an encouragement
of wrong? Surely their standard of morality would
be higher than that. (Applause.) They should
surely not put a premium on wrong. (Applause.)
She concluded with a fervent appeal for practical
assistance for the army.
And if the lady gets the “practical assist-
ance,” what is she going to do with it?
Surely she will not approve and encourage
wrong by handing any of it over to the
woman who, being unmarried, is more in
need of help for herself and her baby than
the other woman who has a husband to help
her and her baby through the trouble!
Chocolate cake is the latest Sin to receive
the attention of Brother Stiggins and his
sister Rachel Chadband. According to a
newspaper report:—
At a meeting’ of teachers of the South Geelong
Methodist Sunday-school, a resolution was carried:
“That this meeting of teachers protests against cer-
tain shopkeepers exposing for sale on . Sundays choco-
late from penny-in-the-slot machines, which are a
j reat temptation to children to spend in this way
money which we believe parents intend should go
J o mission or Sunday-school purposes; and we recom-
mend that action be taken by the authorities to pre-
vent this practice being continued.”
Verily the day is not far distant when Turk-
ish Delight and Ottoman Joy will assume
the dignity of a vice, and gingerbeer will be
promoted to a place among the Seven Thou-
sand Deadly Sins.
COMFORT-
ING.
"Your father
needn’t think
he can bluff
me. Tell him I’m going round to see him to-
morrow morning."
"How nice! I’ll be in town in the afternoon
and will drop in at the hospital and see you
on my way home.”
Melbourne Gas Co.’s reduction of a penny
in the shilling was almost magnified into an
act of generosity by an indiscreet howl ot
hasty criticism. The first announcement of
a reduction from os. to 4s. id. per 1000 ft. on
the ordinary monthly gas-rate incited a num-
ber of citizens to protest against the injustice
of lowering the charge for ‘ credit customers,
without doing likewise for the cash customers
who get their gas through a penny-in-the-
slot meter. Complaints were made to subur-
ban councils, and an agitation on behalf or
penny-in-the-slotters seemed inevitable. And
then the co., with its hands folded across its
fat waistcoat, and a sweet, condescending
smile on its pimpled visage, begged to in-
form its kind friends and patrons that the
reduction in the rate for 1000 ft. would be
granted to cash customers in the form of a
rebate. One penny in every 12 collected from
the slot-box would be refunded to the pur-
chaser. Thus the hasty complainants were
made to appear as calumniators who had
yelled at a virtuous co. before they were
hurt; and the Tory press, with great dignity,
drew attention to the matter as though call-
ing Heaven to witness that the bloated mono-
poly was the sort that couldn’t possibly do
an injustice to any class. #
The cadging Rodney landowners have been at
it again. They won’t use their land and they
won’t use the water the State has provided ;
but they want all the State Socialism they
can commandeer, so as to increase the value
of their properties in the eyes of prospective
buyers. Lately, they urged Minister Graham
to hand them as much of the Tiger as would
build a couple of State canneries for fruit
and vegetables. Graham sent. Elwopd Mead
to inspect and report. His inspection was
long; his report short. He coldly stated that
the settlers in Rodney were doing next to
nothing, that the State Water Commission
had ploughed more land for the settlers than
all the settlers put together, and that until
their blocks were in full cultivation there
wouldn’t be any State cannery. Still, if
Rodney wants a cannery and is prepared to
get to work and keep it supplied, there is
nothing to stop it building one on the co-
operative plan, and pocketing all the profits.
But though profits may appeal to Rodney,
the thought of hard work evidently makes it
faint. 2 X * *
“Breathless” : I no longer rejoice when I
see that someone has invented a machine
which makes smells visible, or light audible,
or which brings you within speaking dis-
tance of people you don’t want to hear on
any account, or keeps you in touch with
everything you desire to avoid. There is not
enough solitude or silence in the
world now, and every new in-
vention brings nearer the day
when somebody will always be
within sight, call or smell, and
the beautiful stillness that is so
conducive to repose and calm
thought will be a sort of half-
legendary substance which re-
ceives honorable mention in old,
leisurely books. For two years
now I have been gallantly re-
sisting the efforts of my wife
to have the telephone installed
in our home. I tell her that
the time is not yet ripe. My
home is the only refuge I have
from the telephone and the sort
of worries that attach them-
selves to it, and I’m going to
keep my one sanctuary even
if I have to get a divorce. The
new invention, whereby light is
made audible, and the cataract
roar of the sun is heard away
in space is in the usual position
of most new curses ; no use has
yet been discovered for it. But
the scientists, never fear, will
soon start to discover ways at
the rate of a dozen a day ; and
they will all help to make the
noisy and congested earth more
uproarious and crowded, and
generally unbearable. I calcu-
late that, by the time my fun-
eral is over, no house will be
considered complete that has
not an indicator capable of
showing that a purple dog-
smell has just turned the corner, and that
the green odor of beer is ambling along the
opposite side of the street.
* * * *
“Stargazer”: Tne Australian dailies have
printed this extraordinary wireless message
received by the Atlantic liner Carmania
Greeting. You are communicating with the oldest
ship afloat, the Australian convict ship Success,
formerly known as “the ocean hell.” We are bound
for New York under our own sail.
I suggest that the Australian Government
immediately buy up the said “ocean hell,”
and let loose a tank of dynamite in its in-
nards. Even if we are not particularly
touchy aoout those birth-stains, it is rotten
policy to have this floating advertisement
of our beginnings clamoring for public in-
spection in all ports of creation. The United
States was also a British convict settlement
in its early days, and a much bigger one
than Australia ever was, but it has no old
Success wandering over the seas to adver-
tise the early misfortunes that Bull put
upon it. Even Britain is more or less of a
convict outfit, for it kept its criminals at
home (barring the many that it hanged and
the comparative handful that it sent
abroad) to be the fathers and mothers of the
new generations, and for many hundred
years it was so easy to be a British convict
that probably most people have a few in
their ancestry. But then Britain, also, has
no Success wandering about. It didn’t send
its homicide from the Old Bailey to. Newgate
by sea. Certainly it used to take him to the
gallows in a cart, but the cart has been
broken up.
FEELS A NEW WOMAN.
“I cannot say too much about Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets,” says Mrs. Edith Wall, Clermont (Q-), “for
since taking them I feel a new woman. I was a
martyr to biliousness and sick headache until I saw
Chamberlain’s Tablets advertised as a cure for these
complaints. I gave them a trial, and found them
simply wonderful. Now I would not be without
them for any money.”*
“0.C.C.” writes :
The wholly unauthorised and untimely “Australia
Day” of the R.C. Church authorities is threatened
with a rival. The suggestion is that July 9—the day
on which the late Queen Victoria s.gned the Enabling
Bill of the Commonwealth Constitution and made it
law —should be declared as “Australia Day.” Also
January I—which is usually held as New Year’s
Day, I understand —is suggested; likewise April 1,
which is the day the “First Fleet” sighted the
Southern Cross, or got its sea-legs; also further sug-
gestions are being “received” (though I’m hanged if
I know who is receiving them), concerning January
26, Februry 14, March 25, June 1, and November 5.
Personally, I am going to vote for November 5, as it
has cheerful associations with premeditated blowings-
up—and there’s an awful lot that needs blowing up
in Australia, including the everlasting asses who
started this asinine “Day” jacket! What we really
need is the Abolition of Rent Day!
EQUAL TO EITHER FORTUNE.
“ Your horse is no good , Dolly. He’s gone the
wrong wry.”
"I'm alt right , Dad. Jack told me to back him
BOTH ways.”
A recent news item that was typical in its
own small way :
was fined £3 and costs, in default
14 days imprisonment for ill-using a horse.
The twelfth contest for the pigeon cham-
pionship of the Commonwealth took place to-day at
North Brighton. .. .Twenty-one birds were allowed
each shooter from thirty yards and the winner was
Dick Grant, of Meredith, with the possible score.
What sort of time would Richard have had
before the Court if he had walloped 21
mokes with a waddy instead of merely blow-
ing the fluttering lives out of 21 helpless
birds ?
* * * *
The British Empire is the one on which
the admiring sun never sets, and in which
plate never ceases to
travel. For the year
ending Easter, 1911,
the amount of coin
dropped upon the
hungry surface of the
Church of England
implement totalled no
less than £8,167,338.
And the Sahara-like
thing drank up every
penny of it, and spun
on its way across the
continents and up and
down the aisles to
where the last lone
snuffle furtively tried
to make the hereafter
safe, for nothing in the
seat next the door.
Edward Mucklow, a
gardener of Mel-
bourne, who lately cut
his throat without ex-
planation, decided
some time previous to
his decease that he
would sprinkle no
more of his three-
pences on the hungry
disc, and the Coroner
was moved to remark
during his inquest
that perhaps he did
not consider the
Church worth it. At
any rate, the econom-
ist with the depress-
ing name shortly
afterwards severed his
connection with Life
and its co 11 e c tion-
plate, and departed
into the unknown —
possibly in search of
the real truth and the
lamented small change
that had gone before.
A visitor and some State blights:—
J. A. Foster, a S’African railway man, is visiting
Australia. He comes for information; but inci-
dentally he gives some. S’Africa didn’t federate:
it united. So the railways went to the Union, and
Foster says the saving was £150,000 a veari while
the efficiency was greater. Naturally, he stands and
asks us, “Well, why don’t you?” The other thing that
strikes him hardest is the absence of second-class
sleeping cars. There they have them on all the long
lines—free without bedding; ks. 6d. if you want
that comfort. He admits that there is nothing in
S’Africa to compare with the luxury of the train
between Melbourne and Albury, but he seems to
doubt whether second-class fairness shouldn’t come in
ahead of first-class luxury.
THE PRECIOUS DOG.
“May I stroke Fido?”
“Yes—if you run and ask nurse to wash you
hands! ”
Wilds Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
clie proper place to go if you want the best "of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. TJours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
TO HIS MISTRESS’S EAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Telephone girls in New York are complaining that
the necessary headgear causes corns to grow on the
ear.— News item.
Fairest and dearest, I would have you know
The love I bear you and shall ever bear!
’Tis not the glory of your auburn hair.
The unguessed glamor of your dark eyes’ glow,
The perfect profile of your nose. Ah, no!
Though this, of all fine feathers, is most rare —-
For such mere charms I do not greatly care,
Nor with their owners over-often go
To gardens green, or Folly’s haunts. I prize
Above all ordinary cast of face
The perfect spirals that adorn each dear
Above her lily neck —as petals rise
Round roses, shrining perfume, form and grace !
As yours, Sweet, with no corns upon the ear!
N.S.W.
O.C.C.
BALLADE OF FEMALE FAILURES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A young fruit-packer at Harcourt, named F. G.
Smith, placed a letter around an apple. In the
letter he expressed a desire to make the acquaintance
of an “English lassie,” remarking that “Australian
girls are a failure.” The young man has received
103 letters in reply to his novel appeal.— News item.
Go, hide your heads Dorothy, Eva and Flo
(O dearest delusions we’ve fondled for years!),
The word has been spoken by One Who Should Know,
And vain are your protests and futile your tears.
I own up, till now, you have satisfied me,
But I’ve found that your charm after all was a
myth;
I was bluffed for the time, but accept this decree:
You’re all of you failures, according to Smith.
I’ve sampled most kinds of you, soulful and gay,
And all were expensive; for while giddy Flo
Liked dramas and suppers, sweet, serious May
To Really Good concerts was anxious to go.
And I, poor fool, thought you were honoring me,
In letting me pay for your pleasures! Forthwith
I renounce ev'ry one of you; sad though it be,
You are of no account —’tis the verdict of Smith.
Sweet, tailor-made sirens, now gone are the days-
In spite of your flounces and openwork hose —
When I deified you. In future I’ll gaze
On your generous charms through the glasses of
prose.
’Tis sad that love wanes, and that passion grows
cold;
But the sun of youth sets, and one—here is the
pith
Of the matter —must alter one’s viewpoint when
told
You are but second-rate; ’tis the judgment of
Smith.
L’Envoi.
Abandon the hope that you’ll ever be wed,
Gwen, Gertie and Elsie and all of your kith ;
Your reign is now ended, your glory has fled—
You’re failures, according to- Solomon Smith!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


VI 1
• Wlfo SbjJ |
of & f*
‘f’t'svs ,I^*^.
X Krg**\ vJmmMßm
|y yA.n ajleoed boy U^mt/
* S Cofctl (/>lelt>)Sootl
\ &««*> -fo
& twenty-Vo,
«l Several o t|>eryott% V
'to in bubji’c
ifo School te^w^
'd vcro»no on
'fwenty
lltohire Ti*)e !— '* Here, uh }
fie &*ui Wor^C.
>wXt*?S S Vust&gC''
Sih |><X e **»*« will b*jr>^
, !,{ °f *' S -tVe y*
tefl x/«|
11
/K A W
% r W
%ce \\
Iflf
! }IL I 1 ]fs I
Iflej We still-fc
N Liberal
if S"V*«s >Wv
1 1 vrT" m
&X<l ifye o»ly
'two "SW^* y
Ktjo wj of
&II hoM"
« Newspaper statisticians have been at
'**■" 1 work with these figures, and they
find that John D. Rocicefeller has
an income of £2B a minute.
/Hone-/
V
BulUiTn
MIXED TOPICS.


NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
A Wedding*
Present
Requires
Thought.
You want
Ist, a frood one.
2nd, a relatively inexpensive one.
3rd, one that will be admired.
4th, one that will last.
Our enormous stock consists of these.
Weekly we land the latest novelties
and utilities ; the commonplace
have no charms.,
Our Prices are bedrock ; we allow
20 per cent, discount.
fh
Best Electroplated Tea Set, with Self-Color Cup
and Saucers, on Tray .. .. .. .. £5 10 0
Less 20 per cent 12 0
£4 8 0
pAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD., 23 & 25 Hunter St., Sydney
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, ;
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Larrikin”: Became acquainted with an
Irish combo once. He had been bossing a lot of
niggers on a job along the rabbit fence which runs
from Esperance Bay to the De Grey River (W.A.),
and simply threw in his lot with them. Lived in a
one-roomed slab house, with a gin and an assort-
ment of half-caste piccaninnies ; gave up all dealings
with his people; burned unopened all letters; and,
excepting that he read a little and was quite cleanly,
took to nigger ways. He told me he preferred to
live on kangaroo and bungarra (a sort of gghanna
that feeds on roots), and that “he couldn’t stand
mutton except for a change.” He could put up with
as much hardship as the tribe, and could go dry
for a longer spell than most of them. Also, he could
drink without ill effects or repugnance some awful
water. I know, because he directed me to the only
water-hole available where he was located at the
time. When I reached the spot I fell down dead
and didn’t rise again until the third day.
* * * *
“Billy Blueshirt” : The gohanna can give
any of the bush creatures points and a beating in
the gentle art of gluttony. Nothing comes amiss to
his maw, from ’possum skins pegged upon a tree to
the flesh of dead horses and native cats. Although
not quite in the same category with the pole-cat, the.
defunct native species has a distinctive odor pecu-
liarly its own, and the “go” is the only animal I
know of that will sit down to table with it. Like
all of the saurian tribes, he looks upon very ripe
carcases as titbits. As a special delicacy, he gobbles
up birds’ eggs, and if the young birds are still in
process of hatching he doesn’t even send for the
complaint book.
MODERNISED.
JONES (arriving home at 2 a.m. and expecting
trouble): “ Whatsh the old quotation (hie);
Ah, I gottim (hie): ‘Excessity is mother
of Invenshon ’ (hie)! ”
“E.D.”: The Westralian •vgoldfields are
constantly guilty of treasons that make one feel
ashamed of them. Jap and Chow laundries still
flourish all over Kalgoorlie and Boulder, and any
day in the week you can see well-paid white union-
ists leaving the weekly wash at the dens of Shem.
Dozens of white women —many of them the widows
of battered or slaughtered laborites —vainly endeavor
to establish themselves in the wash industry, and are
downed because the very people who fight for a
white Australia with their mouths fight against it
with their pockets.
“A 5.0. A.”: Have just returned from a
sojourn in the Cow Country on the Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.)* Whilst there I called at a small Public
School, the teacher of which compiled at my request
a table setting forth the names, ages, distance from
school, and number of cows milked by each pupil
before and after school hours. Here it is:—
Distance
Number from
Age, of Cows School
N am e Yr-lvio. Milked. (Miles).
Rose .. 12 8 H H
Emma—— .. 13 3 10 1
Emily 14 3 20 5
Daisy .. 14 6 1- v
Irene .. 12 10 15 ?
Alma .. 10 0 13 ?
Merle .. 8 2 8 4
Noel 13 4 9 1
Clyde 11 7 8
Sidney .. 11 0 10 1
William .. 14 5 Hi S
Edward .. 9 2 8 1
Donald .. 6 5 9 j
This works out an average of exactly one cow for
each year of the child’s age —152 years and 152
cows. Also, the children travel an aggregate of 18
miles per day—say, 82 miles daily for each year of
their age—and there are 81 cows to the mile going
and coming. To put it another way, there about
llj cows per child daily, equal to 55,480 cows in
the aggregate (or 4267 per child) yearly.
“Mallarapoonie’s” brief remarks :
“Leo Lear” (B. 23/5/’l2) is right in saying that
the volcanic region lying along tne south Victorian
seaboard, between Warrnambool and Mount, Gambler,
was one of the principal stadiums of tne Devil in
times past. It is Australia’s one really important
volcanic zone, and is most interesting in that respect.
On geological evidence there probably isn’t another
- country on earth which has been so free from rude
earth-tremors and violent upheavals as Australia.
The fact that about 95 per cent, of the continent
was originally overlain by an unbroken sheet of cre-
taceous sandstone is proof that the arrival of the
continent above the surface of the Eocene sea was a
quiet, dignified and stately happening. Witness also
the quantities of “hanging rocks,” pinnacles of bal-
anced stone, and other records left as evidence of
lack of violence. Australia’s active volcanic period
was not a very remote affair, as geological time
goes; also the evidence shows that it was by no
means prolonged. Mounts Rouse, Eccles, Napier and
others probably vomited their lava streams in unison
in the years that have been devoured by the grass-
hopper of Time, pouring them down steep inclines
to the sea, even as the hogs flowed down at Gadara.
The volcanic vents of Noorat, Shadwell, Tower Hill,
Gambier and a few more, probably spewed only mud
and ashes, forming the deep, rich alluvium deposits
of their several districts. That these were com-
paratively recent in their activity is demonstrated by
natural features. The lava-stream from Mount
Eccles, for instance, flowed across the previously-
established course of the Eumeralla River, blocking
that stream, turning it from its channel, and form-
ing great swamps along its way. Likewise with
Darlot’s Greek, creating Lake Gondah, and the pro-
lific flats where now the homely spud and onion
flourish with much profusion. Beneath these ; lava
streanjs, beneath the rich alluvial soil the volcanoes,
gave us in the dim Pleistocene, is always to be
found the huge basaltic sheet which underlies most
of south-western Victoria —the age of which no man
can tell, nor hath he any certain knowledge whence
it came, or how. This great basalt sheet is a feature
of that region, and nowhere is the magnitude of it
better exemplified than in the Grampian Ranges, and
in the steep declivities behind Dunkeld. In these
localities, by the process of contraction, and by the
ensuing crumpling of the basaltic bed, great mount-
tains were pushed slowly up. It was probably the
Assuring of the basaltic sheet that led to volcanic
eruption in that region. Those were the stirring
times, .when the roof of Tophet was liable to be
blown off at any minute, and* Perdition over.
“Tekelo”: Our simple brown brother of
these parts (Solomon Isles) has been doing things
again. Eighteen of him got tired of being locked up
in the prison at Gizo, so
he (the whole 18 of bro-
ther) asked a gaol servant
for a release one starry
morning, and was obliged.
Hastily borrowing some
Government rice and meat,
the escapees lit out for
the dark horizon in the
B.M.’s 20-man canoe. Pur-
suit commenced a few
hours later; but, so far,
it has been without suc-
cess. Curiously enough,
what is regarded as the
nasty part of the affair
is the stealing of that
canoe or Barge of State.
It is a gorgeous craft and
a thing of savage beauty.
The glory of its decorated
hull is surmounted by
two towering prows, be-
dizened with snowy shells
and bones. As the local
Bu centaur took practically
18 months of island toil
to create, we are not likely
to see its like again. Tired
brown brother doesn’t build
many of its kind in one
lifetime. It is presumed
that the runaways are
making for Malaita —a trip
of over 200 miles. And
the betting is that they
will get there, though
there is nothing uncom-
mon enough about that to
cause any great . outbreak
of dancing and pig-killing.
TJp north of Maoriland, a few days ago,
they caught a cheerful tohunga, or medicine man,
who had taken a, girl, aged 17 years, into the bush
and started to cure a minor complaint by continu-
ously pouring cold water over her undressed body.
It was an interesting experiment, but the weather
was cold, and the water was cold, and presently the
bare girl became cold —in fact, she never warmed
up again. The police and the undertaker called
about the same time, and the wizard was lined up
before the Court on a charge of practising tohunga-
ism. It wasn’t called plain, damp murder. The
intelligent sergeant who prosecuted announced that
the accused was supposed to be responsible for the
death of 10 people in the district. The Bench an-
nounced that the fine would be £l5, and the brown
fraud went off to look up new business. Kaitohe,
where the case was heard, is probably the only place
in Maoriland where the free and enlightened citizen
is entitled to shoot his fellow man and pay a fine
of ss: and costs for carrying firearms without a
license.
THE FAILURE.
“Silas Snell”: I repose small faitb in
stories of the almost human sagacity and Wowser-
like virtues of the common or butcher’s dog; never-
theless I submit this faithful yarn of Bill and Jim
for public approval and general credence. Bill and
Jim were full brothers of a true mongrel strain.
They were owned by a man named Carter, but he is
of no further consequence here. Bill and Jim had
each a marked personality. Bill’s was powerful,
dogmatic and distinctly combative; that of Jim was
effeminate, retiring and meekly affectionate. The
peculiarity of their relationship was the protectorate
established by Bill over Jim. Bill seemed to say:
“Here’s Jim, as well-meaning and decent a dog as
ever walked, unassuming, domesticated and kind
even to cats, but weak, decidedly weak. It’s up to
me to see that he isn’t imposed upon.” So it came
about that when Jim whirled to cover, with his tail
tucked in, and wearing an expression of anguish on
his features, Bill immediately grasped the situation,
and streaked out to deal with the assailant. No dog
that ever attacked or insulted Jim could hope to
escape BfTl. Bill got him, and rehabilitated the
family honor, if he had to wait a week. If you saw
Bill hanging round a back gate, you might know at
once there was a dog inside who had been saying
things about Jim. If you saw a dog flattening him-
self in a life-and-death dash for sanctuary, with Bill
assailing his rear, you surmised correctly that the
tyke in front had been practising some new holts on
James. One day recently James dragged himself
into Carter’s garden. A truly pitiful object he was,
all chewed up; a paw was broken, half an ear was
missing, and he was blood and dust from tip to tip.
Bill, who had been out on the produce waggon, took
a horrified look over the body on his return, and
then left home. For four days and three nights Bill
prosecuted inquiries. He was in and out of yards,
over and under fences, dodging under bridges, lurk-
ing round corners, walking the beats, and investiga-
ting waste places. Wherever a dog was to be met
with there was Bill to meet him, and every dog had
to give a full and true account of himself. Bill was
seen interviewing all sizes and breeds of dog, and
dogs of all dimensions and complexions were dis-
covered explaining earnestly to Bill that, so help
them, they hadn’t seen Jim for a week, and in any
circumstances wouldn’t dream of touching such a
poor, harmless bloke. On Friday Bill got a clue.
He lurked at the loop, and when an electric car
pulled up there, he came out of ambush, with a rush
and a roar, and fastened on the car. He took a
copious mouthful of the front portion, and worried
it madly. They tried to beat Bill off, but he came
at it again and again, so the car was started, with
the infuriated canine hanging on. After chewing
at the vehicle over a space of 200yds., Bill dropped
out, and was cut down by the wheels. But his in-
formation was correct —that was the car that had
demolished Jim.
“Lawyer Bill” : Most bushmen know the
value of the magnetic anthills when bearings are
required, but not many know the infallibility of the
Northern Territory beef-wood tree as a guide. From
the western side of every vegetable the bark is
gone, and the exposed wood is apparently dead.
Can’t explain the reason, but suspect the sun, which,
in tropical spaces, is at its greatest heat in the after-
noon. Anyhow, I’ve been on the look-out for 10
years for a beef-wood tree not so blazed, and I
have failed to find one.
INFORMATION.
“Yes, mum; indeed, mum , I miss ’er very
much, mum .”
“Pore man ... I'm sure. And 'ow long Ere
you bin a widower?”
“Ever since my missus died, mum.”
Dear Bulletin, — The bark of trees does
grow upward, that is, its progress is upward. Here-
with I forward my initials, which I carved on a
poplar 15 years ago. I watched them gradually
working their passage up the trunk, until, as time
became ripe, they were lost to sight. Imagine my
surprise, however, when I found them lying at the
foot of the tree the other morning. They had been
pushed off the top, and, very fittingly, just at a
time when Abo.-writers were in a state of doubt, not
to say fury, as to the habits of tree-bark. Thanking
you in anticipation, I remain yours in the expectation
of Paradise, “Billy B.”
THE RIGHTEOUS PIG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
l’at Coleman grew great pigs. His runs
Were all along the ocean reaches,
Where favoring winds threw tons and tons
Of fish upon the sandy beaches.
And Pat’s round pigs grew ever rounder
On lobster, pilchard, shrimp and flounder.
The buyers up in town had made
A fierce complaint of Coleman’s bacon.
They wrote to say they were afraid
Pat’s pork would soon be quite forsaken,
Unless he could contrive to favor
With some more appetising flavor.
They said the pig that fed on fish,
When killed and eaten, fresh or salted,
Was not a very pleasing dish,
And folks who wanted pig-meat halted,
When passed a plate with sheaves of ham on,
That looked like pork, and ate like salmon.
Then Patrick Coleman wrote in ink: —-
“I’ll do me best to meet objections.
Sure, I’m no bigot, but I think
Obedyince joo in some directions.
Hinceforth me pigs will be supplied a
New food, wid only fish on Friday.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


ĥfd
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE guarantee you will use
.NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
FOGGITT, JONES’ -:
PORK BRAWN
If you have not tasted Foggitt„ Jones'
Pork Brawn, you haven’t tasted,One
of the finest delicacies made in theiry
factories. Might it be suggested -thatl
you buy a tin or two and see how
it is for luncheon, tea or picnic y
I
Your gTOcer sells it at a reasonfftrv.
price
h
“Dux”: Death stole down and snatched
a notable Maori rangitira, Hemi Matenga, recently,
and the tangi, which took place near Nelson, was a
marvellous exhibition. The tahua kai heaped in
front of the late chief’s whare comprised: 240 bags
of flour, 40 bags of sugar, 50 tins of biscuits, 22
boxes of tea, two casks of mutton birds (850 birds),
and sundry minor delicacies. Surmounting the pile
were five poles, each bearing 10 £1 notes, the
money, presumably, being to drink the old fellow’s
health with, later on, intoxicants being prohibited at
Maori tangis. That’s the only sad thing I know
about a tangi.
IN “PUSH”
SOCIETY.
BLINKY : “ Wot!
Sieve’s got
married to
Ginger Mag? I can't take that tale on.”
DIDO : “Fair dinkum, Blinky. J seed tan
tracking away from the Registry Office.”
BLINKY : Well , if it is , Diao, all I can say is
that he s a game un. How are they going
to battle it out ? Why I she don t get no
more than twenty-two and six a week!"
COWARDLY :
THE OUTLAW : " Blimy , if this
ain’t luck. Here have I
been wailin’ all day ter
get a punch at 'im; and,
after all, he comes along
with his bloomin’ nurse.”
“Eddyson”: It isn’t always the lobster —
sometimes it is yabbies. When a hut-dweller myself,
and engaged in conducting a dizzy whim-horse round
a ring for eight hours a day, over against New
Ireland, which is Bungaree (Vic.), I one day came
upon the Codger sitting on the damp clay bank of a
small dam, staring fixedly at the yellow water, and
holding the end of a submerged string. The Codger
was small, with stringy whiskers and outstanding
eyes. He was a hatter, and the money for his
daily bread, earned burning charcoal for the mines,
he spent on weekly beer. I spoke to the lone fisher-
man, but he paid no heed to me—he had a bite.
Hauling in with painful deliberation, making a sibi-
lant and soothing sound the while, he presently
dumped a ■ fine, fat yabby
into his four-gallon oilcan. I
rode 1 on to the township, filled
mv g’unny sack with stores,
and, returning, found the
Codger in the act of landing
another yabby. A seething
mass of Crustacea infested his
can. Three fell out of the
fight on their heads. Ap-
parently the silent angler was
content with his day’s haul.
He arose, took up the can,
and now for the first time
caught my eye. For fully a
minute he stood gazing hard,'
trying to bring me into focus.
Then he said gravely, by way
of explanation, “I’m putting
a stop to it. ’Twas bad
enough when they turned blue
on me, and I couldn’t keep
’em out of the hut, but”
(here his voice sank to a
whisper) “of late they’ve bin
’ cornin’ in with lanterns—
with lanterns a-danglin’, all
of ’em. Now, what would
you call that —four hundred
’n’ twenty yabbies marchin’
in with lanterns bulls-eye
lanterns? I call it dam pre-
sumptuous.” Then the Cod-
ger carefully spilled his day’s
takings down an abandoned
shaft. “Dam presumptuous!”
he yelled after the fallen yab-
bies, and as I rode on he was
closing the shaft with slabs.
There were to be no more
torchlight processions for
Codger.
“Phil Harum”: Reports of suicide by ani-
mals were generally viewed with suspicion, so the fol-
lowing is wrapped round a brick and thrown through
the office window. Lately a stallion belonging to a
Condobolin (N.S.W.) resident got into the Lachlan
River, and was rescued with difficulty and other ap-
pliances. No sooner was he placed on the bank to
dry than he threw himself in again, by the scruff of
the neck, so to speak. This time greater difficulty
and more appliance was necessary to bring him out
of the wet; and, then. the ungrateful skunk hurled
himself into the raging flood a third time. The dis-
gusted onlookers just let him hurl for all he was
worth. Presumably he is now dragging trucks of
flames in Sheol.
WHEN YOU ARE KEPT AWAKE
at night with that troublesome Cough, remember that
it can be speedily removed by Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. Price, 1/6 and 3/- per bottle.*
“Tiaki”: Some years ago, when I was
leading the strenuous life, I had business in the Bay
of Islands (M.L.) which compelled me to be a guest
of Henare’s for some weeks. We were struck by
famine, and many were the devices which the brown
man resorted to in order that the inner Henare might
be filled. The potato crop had died in its infancy,
and the pumpkin was a memory in the land. The
young fronds of the manuka tree-fern were gathered,
peeled and cooked. Joints with the vegetables were,
fdr a time, obtained by an ardent crusade against
the long-nosed “Captain Cooks,” who rooted for a
scanty living in the kauri forests. Eels were, pro-
cured by a process known as eel-groping. Hunger
forced us into the creeks at low water to grope for
our lives’ and stomachs’ sakes. (Ladies were not
excluded from our fishing party, and nudity went un-
noticed in the haste for victuals.) We slid and
skidded over the greasy mud till we located a hole
in the low bank. An inserted arm found the sinuous
eel at the end of the “nest.” The snaky delicacy
was yanked forth in triumph and dashed against a
mangrove tree to silence it. I have taken as many
as 10 eels at a time from one hole, and, until your
nerves get used to it, the squirming mass is like a
devil’s blanc mange or a second edition of the jim-
jams. I saw one hungry young groperman draw his
arm out hurriedly with a young conger clinging to
the end of his finger. From the sounds made by
Henare I gathered that he was not enjoying himself.
In spite of the hard times our brown friend would
not sell his kauri timber at a farthing a million feet
less than the current rate. He just said: “Never
mind; we’ll live.”
NINE WEEKS IN HOSPITAL.
“I suffered with Dysentery for over six years. I
was in the Camden Hospital for nine weeks, and
came out worse than when admitted,” says Mrs.
James Ellis, Oakdale, The Oaks, via Camden
(N.S.W.). “I consulted different doctors, and was
for nine months in bed in my own home. Then I
began to take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea
Remedy, and after a few bottles were taken I was
completely cured, and have not had a return of the
dysentery for the last five years.”*
THE SWEETHEART OF THE FUTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Helen Kellogg, of Chicago, advises women to
cultivate big feet. She declares that big intellects
do not go with small sizes in boots. “Cultivate
large feet,” she says, “and the intellect will grow
automatically.” —News item.
Oh, lady fair, if you would have the world at your
command,
Just let your south extremities prodigiously expand ;
Just let them grow until they dwarf our old domestic
mats —-
Until the shoes that meet our views are bigger than
your hats!
Then, lady, you’ll experience the most delightful
throes,
As all the wisdom of the world runs tingling
through your toes.
You’ll know, at last, the rhapsody the manly genius
feels
When all your mental faculties are throbbing in
your heels.
No more shall manhood testify in halting, stinted
doles.
To your mentality, when it is oozing from your
soles!
And how shall man your woman’s rights one
moment more deny
When women’s brains are number tens, yet only
ankle-high ?
I doubt me much, on rainy days, if he would be
consoled
When you uplift your skirts to stop your brains
from catching cold ;
For no man who has slyly sought the sludgy cross-
ing-place
Would care to steal a downward glance—to meet a
scholar’s face !
Oh, maiden of the days to be, what though your
lips be red ?
You’ll cut no ice unless you fill the highway with
your tread!
What though your skin be rose and cream, your
eyes a turquoise blue ?
You’ll merely waste your beauty if you wear a
number two!
Gone soon will be the blandishments where fruit and
feathers blend
(The north in subjugation to your ample southern
end).
Gone, too, will be the happiness of us who judged
you sweet,
Unless you walk upon your head, and love us with
your feet!
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
The Gent. One Who Wants to Have a
Shot.
As time goes on the path isn’t being made
any smother for the gent, one who gets
hold of a possible client and advises him to
“have a shot” at somebody or other. It is
the gent, one’s misfortune at such times
that he is an officer of the Court; and the
Court has become increasingly addicted to
the uncomfortable habit of making its officer
pay for the “shot.” Following on several
cases of the sort in England and one in
Maoriland comes another from the King’s
Bench Division, reported in the London
Times (19/3/T2). Here the party who
was advised to have the shot was a Mrs.
Danzey, whose father had died leaving a
deposit note for £2OOO, dated 1864, in his
cash-box. The money had been deposited
with the Metropolitan and Provincial Bank,
which had “ceased to exist” —the nice way
probably of saying an unpleasant thing.
The Metropolitan Bank of England and
Wales had taken over some of the business
of a defunct bank which had taken over
some of the business of this more defunct
bank; and on that frail hook Mrs. Danzey
was advised to have her “shot” at the
Metropolitan Bank of England and Wales to
recover the £2OOO. Apparently Mrs. Dan-
zey had no ammunition for such a purpose,
so the gent, one agreed to do the shooting
for 25 per cent, of the prize-money. Very
early in the proceedings he seems to have
known that lie had no case; still, knowing
also that a bank is very chary about going
into a court —a court being a place where
certain people are licensed to throw mud on
anybody’s credit and character —gent, one
reckoned that he might get a trifle even if
he had no case. But he reckoned wrong.
Though the plaintiff presently withdrew her
claim, the writ had been issued, and the
bank went ahead and got judgment with
costs. At this point gent, one proposed to
fade out of the business, and it was merely
his bad luck that the bank wouldn’t let him
fade. His client —partner, the Court cruelly
called her —having no money, the bank
asked the Court to make the solicitor per-
sonally liable; and the Court did so with
evident enthusiasm—“he must pay the de-
fendant’s costs, which would not have been
incurred but for his conduct. And he must
also pay the costs of this application.” It
was a sad ending to a very promising piece
of business, and will probably suggest to the
gent, one who is prone to speculative actions
that the gun has developed a bad trick of
kicking most violently.
“Machete” turns down the warlike jigger:
Regarding the utility of cycle corps in warfare
(B. 6/6/T2), no doubt in countries with many and
excellent roads —England, France or Germany, for
instance—they would be very useful for certain work
■ —reconnaissance and desultory skirmishing, for in-
stance. _ But under the rough transport conditions of
Australia, they would be worse than useless. This
opinion is based on over two years’ campaigning in
S’Africa, a country whose roads are much like those
of Australia. Part of that experience included ser-
vice with the only Australian regiment which took a
regular cycle co. to S’Africa, the sth Q. 1.8. This cycle
co. numbered 50 men, all expert riders equipped with
first-class machines. Before they had been campaign-
ing- a week they were quite satisfied. Sandy roads
and tussocky country found them helpless, and sev-
eral of them were captured, by Boer patrols. On
rough or heavy-going tracks a medium mounted man
could catch the best cyclist every time. Before the
regiment got back to Pretoria, after a flying trip
of three weeks, half the jiggers were out of action,
and the cycle co. was clamoring exceedingly for
horses. It got them, too, and what became of the
bikes, which were left in store at Pretoria, no man
knoweth. Incidentally, it is impossible to charge a
position at full speed upon a bicycle (a manoeuvre
that is dead easy on a horse), firing meantime from
the saddle. This wrinkle, first adopted by the well-
mounted Boers, proved so effective in S’Africa that
both sides indulged in the practice whenever oppor-
tunity offered, especially towards the end of the war,
and almost invariablv the attackers were successful.
Witness Benson’s smash at Brakenlagte, Plumer’s at
Ouverwacht, and Methuen’s in the Western Trans-
vaal.
SAFE ENOUGH.
"Hi! Mr. Snobbs, come quickly, yer humpy’s
blown into the river.”
"Gerrout, yer young scoundrel! Yer carn't fool
me. I got ther key in me pocket!”
“P. O’Maori,” his Analogy :
One of the necessities of civilised life that arrived
last on the world’s dinner-table was the common
household fork. It is a simple thing, and ought to
have been fairly easy to think about. Any piece of
pointed stick would have been better than nothing;
yet right up to the time of Henry VIII. it was un-
known, and the fair Plantagenet ladies devoured their
hot, fat pork as best they might, with the aid of a
dagger drawn from the belt and the numerous fingers
which Nature had given them before Progress was
born. The fact stands that the wonderful period
which invented clocks and cannon and type and
crusades and the sonnet and Parliament failed
utterly to discover the simple thing that lies at the
root of all clean feeding.
A fork is to a dinner-table very much what a port
is to a district. North and south of Sydney lie vast
areas of land, shut off and locked from their natural
ports, because that old kink Progress insists on
taking her zig-zag course and avoiding the simple
thing that lies right under her nose. Tons of hard
gold are being spent on duplicating railways, reliev-
ing the congestion of one big city, and doing all
manner of things which are of quite secondary im-
portance to the opening up of the natural trade out-
lets of New South Wales. A weird thing called a
Million Club has come into existence, with the object
of packing more people into the few miles of space
between Parramatta and the sea. We are evidently
in the Australian Middle Ages. We have, like them,
our golden dishes and silver tankards, and any
amount of noise and display, but what we really
want is a politician who, carrying the minimum of
practical insanity under his hat, will get to work
and invent a fork.


THE STYX FERRY (with a hidden reference to overcrowded ferry boats).
CROSSUS: “When is the next boat?” CROSSUS: “It was overcrowded.
THE TRAFFIC BOSS: “Why didn’t you go by that one?” THE TRAFFIC BOSS: “Not it! Why, it’s llcensed to carry anotner million!"


STOP IT!
A neglected cough or cold may lead to serious
bronchial or lung troubles. Don’t take chances, for
Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery for Coughs and Colds
affords perfect security from serious effects of a cold.
Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every bottle guar-
anteed. Price, 1/6 and 3/-.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY..
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
TO PRINTERS—AN ABSOLUTE
BARGAIN.
NEWS TYPE FOR SALE.
5001 b. 10 point Old Style.
5001 b. S point Old Style.
5001 b. Long Primer.
7501 b. Minion.
7501 b. Nonpareil.
This type is in case, in splendid condition,
and has never been used except for stereo,
purposes. Miller and Richard foundry.
Also, 100 pairs type cases in excellent
order.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO..
214 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MR. HOLMAN’S DIRIGIBLE—
1912 PATTERN.
Two surprises in Maoriland’s new Cabinet
are Francis Henry Dillon Bell, K.C., S 3
Francis Marion Bates Fisher. Bell, whose
I arliamentary experience amounts to one
term in the Representatives, back in 1893-
9G, is to be called to the Leg. Council and
‘law ” y be T . the n Mas sey Government’s:
taw joint, as Jim Gannon, K.C., calls an
ffem^'S enera i- As far as years gof he
(Bell) is 61; as far as democracy goes he is in
fL°M Co “P a sy witb “Farmer” Massey. Fishe"
is Maorilands young-man-in-a-hurry. He was;
a political pupil of the late “Tommy” Tay-
lor, who, in his time, was Maoriland’s most
Phted 3 himself 1 ?- W / th Ta - vl °r, Fisher
Slai himse 1 1£ frequently against Richard
wfr horf °f t° th - e o? holy j °y of that old
war horse. Fisher is 35 years of age I-lis
strong point is tennis.
AlDr/Trf ayS a ”°u W * T - McLean, son of
Allan McLean, who was 1-Prime Minister
p VI Jj? 9 rei ? q * n 1964-05, refused to contest his
father’s old seat, Gippsland (Vic.)? for tw
o tfT,: > lhG f/ st was tbe alleged inability 1
demand himself away from the business
Purthi 8 a w o a y tJ rUSteesh "’- The «“ l “ i "«
nifv r?n 6aki "’ the great leader of the Liberal
Father’s 1 ° n6 direct F caused my
T , removal fr °m politics. Knowing all the'
facts, I know that Mr. Deakin was the cf use • and
that V hifo?H a , numbe r, of hard-headed politicians say
tnathis action was the deepest piece of treaoherv
m the h,story of the co U ntry P Knowfng this, I fed'
no enthusiasm m following him.
With a change of leaders, McLean hints lie
m?Affabl<?. Sldei ’ the matter ’ which is rough
Massey, who has just taken the job of
Piemier in Maoriland, has had a long and
he kent 1 n? *?> Opposition - Session by slssion
f f , ' pt • up tbe appearance of battle, with
a following often so small and ineffective as
hntT k b the wai ‘ savor of Gilbertian opert?
but he has won through at last to place and
power, and is for the moment boss off
things. His most remarkable asset is his
voice a voice which throbs like the night-
ingales and ranges like the skylark’s and
appears to be quite beyond its user’s’con
w?nt to fill h rb da p r hen Touseph Ward was
wont to fill the Parliamentary chamber with
disjointed sentences uttered in dulcet tones
Massey would reply in well-turned sen-’
ence S , uttered by a voice that ran into every
steadilv bl ?riw n -° f ebla and con tralto, and
steadily grew in piercing quality as the
firgument advanced. Had Massey possessed
Mards voicehe might have been a great
orator; had \\ard been dowered with Mas-
sey s organ of speech lie would have been a
more awful speaker than he is.
Ever been irritable all day—didn’t know yourself ‘
because of a throbbing headache? That needn’t be.,
Stearns Headache Cure will put you right.*
Some girls never know when to leave well
enough alone. There is, for instance, the
w\ Pearl Button, of Parramatta
V V* , ° he Sot married the other day
vr-ii e l° ca l St. Andrew’s, and allowed one
mi Her to spoil the beautiful ensemble of her
maiden name.
4 ‘‘Jack” Yerran lias been made a permanent
Honorable. In passing him this bit of hol-
low-ware the British Government stretched
a point. The rule is that to become an
Honorable for life a man must have eaten
the loaves and fishes of office for three years,
whereas Jack was Premier for only 20
months. Probably the British Government
reckoned that the 20 months must have
seemed like 36 to the man who was hanging
on by one fragile vote.
A man who has shot into notice in
Tasmania lately is Edward Hwyer Gray,
chairman of the Liberty of the Press Defence
Committee, an organisation formed to squelch
an alleged advertisers’ boycott of the local
Labor paper, the Daily Post. IJis vigorous
signed articles of protest are brilliant enough
to make the present generation of Vande-
monians blink. This Dwyer Gray is the son
IF Edmund Ditto, whose conduct of the Dub-
lin Ireeman evoked admiration 30 years
M?;,.™ whose praises are sung loudlv in
VViHiam O’Brien’s “Recollections.” 'The
E-D.G. who has suddenly blazed into view in
Tasmanian journalism followed his illustri-
ous father as conductor of the Freeman, but
not for long. He emigrated to Tasmania a
good many years ago, and has been quietly
orcharding on the Upper Derwent ever since
spending his not infrequent dividends from
the h reeman property, which has been in
the family for generations, on the propaga-
tion ot new samples of apple trees and simi-
far vegetables. Here he might have lived
and died, at peace with all the world, un-
known beyond the ambit of his parish. But
he is only 42 and Irish, and when he heard
mt a boycott of a newspaper, he simply had
Wto be , : t». .the shindy.
“W.” : Adelaide’s oldest news-
■™nner, W. B. Stephens, began
his 80t:i vear with July. Fifty
•years ago the old man had a
’bookseller’s shop in Collins-
.•street, Melbourne, next to where
the Equitable Insurance build-
ing mow stands, and 1m once
managed for George Robertson
m Adelaide. But he fell on
•evil times, and had to begin
again from the bottom, which
he did with courage and energy,
and an ontimism that only
oozes a Tittle when he feels the
weight of ;his : bifi,idle of Satur-
day morning papers.
From London :
A moneylender named Cohen has just been fined
*lOO here for calling himself Fortesque, and trading
at 1000 or so per shent under that fictitious title. But
bolomon Lazarus Levi may become Sidney Lee and
even get knighthood under that English name.’ Sir
Sidney is the editor of the “Dictionary of National
Biography,’ and he has just brought out a supple-
mentary volume, dealing with the notables who have
■died during the decade. The late King Edward gets
■63 pages written by Levi himself, from information
derived from ‘first-hand authoritative sources.” Lee
says that as far back as 1872 Gladstone urged the
then Queen to give the heir an apprenticeship to
his business; but it was not until 20 vears later
that he succeeded in overcoming the Queen’s strong
objections. She could not abide some of the Prince's
companions, and told Gladstone straight that she “did
not want national secrets discussed at country-house
dinner tables.” As to Edward’s “indiscretions,” Sir
bid remarked that “the gloom of his mother’s court
helped to provoke a reaction against conventional
strictness, which is a neat way of putting it. Also,
His natural love of pleasure, carefully repressed in
his boyhood, in later years sought free scope among
the ambiguities of his public position.” This writer
has heard them called many things, but never “am-
biguities” before. .However, on the indisputable
■authority ot Lee or Levi, there was “gross exaggera-
tion in the reports as to his frivolities and undesir-
able associates during the early years of his married
“ te , iso Mrs. Grundys hopes for the worst in Lee’s
book are not realised.
PROFESSOR BRYCE,
John Hulls Ambassador to Uncle Sam, now
in Australia.
Thomas Cook, one of the Ma State’s best-
known station-owners and stud-masters, died
on Saturday at Turanville, near Scone. Born
m . Canada in 1834, he came to Australia
with his father in 1837, and went to Turan-
io(i’ ien owned by Henry Dangar. In
1841 the elder Cook pushed further inland,
and formed Myall Creek, Paradise Creek.
Bulleroi, Bulla Bulla and Barren Barren
stations. Later on, ho took up Nemingha,
near Tamworth. Son Tom went to Turan-
ville as boss in 1854, and had been there
ever since.
A TALE OF SHIPWRECK.
OLD LADY : " Gracious goodness! Tell we, my
poor fellow, after being tossed about in the
cruel waves for 48 hours, how did you
feel?”
ANCIENT MARINER: "Not too dusty, lady;
not too dusty.”
BOOTING HIS JOSS.
The Government had not been prudent "in bringing
in the land tax. Australia was a debtor country .
It owed £240,000,000, most of it in England. And
yet the Government slapped its creditors in the face
by putting a heavy tax on their lands...A man who
said there should be no borrowing was a fool; a man
of no intelligence.— Gran’pa Harper, M.H.R. very
furiously.
THE FAT DISCIPLE: “’ Eaven s! Sacrilege!!”
THE OTHER : “All right in its place; sorry to
hurt your feelings, but it musn't block my
path! ”
Every Maorilander knows William Jukes
Steward—just sent to rest in the quietude of
the. M.L. House of Lords —as an ancient
politician who was once a poor Speaker; but
many don’t know that he threatened to be
a poet too. He went so far as to publish a
volume of verse under the pen-name of
Justin Aubrey. But that was 50 years or
so back, and, as apparently he hasn’t re-
peated the offence, all is now forgiven. Can
anyone remember the exact date of George
Reid’s volume of poems?
On Thursday, July 25, there will be a
banquet in Adelaide to celebrate the fiftieth
anniversary of the date on which J. McDou-
all Stuart planted the flag on the shores of
Van Diemen’s Gulf, after having crossed the
continent with nine companions from north
to south. All the party came back safe and
weH ; The leader and Waterhouse, Frew,
1 bring and Kekwick are now dead. The
survivors are W. P. Auld, Stephen King
(who has just retired from the S.A. service
under the Septuagenarians Act), Heath
Nash, J. \\. Billiett and J. McGorry. The
secretary of the banquet committee is a son
ot one of the two brothers Chambers who
financed several of Stuart’s expeditions.
Chamber s Pillar, a rock in Central Aus-
tralia, is named from one of them.
James Bryce is a rarity in a way, for men
who have filled positions in Bull’s Cabinet
don’t often come so far as this. Rosebery,
the ploughman of the lonely furrow, owns
some globe hereabouts, and visited this coun-
try in 1883; and Salisbury was here in his
giddy youth; also Lowe —hut none of these
men had then attained Cabinet rank. Dud-
ley was here after he had been in the Cab-
inet, but he came on business.
“Boswell” on leaving the tabernacle:—
I've just listened to
a sermon wherein the
“ meenistcr ” quoted
W. Shak spear e's
“There is a Divinity
which shapes our ends,
rough hew them how
he will,” and as a shin-
ing example dilated
earnestly on the tall
and rise of Joseph of
the multi-colored coat:
“From the lowest
depths o f despair h e
rose to be Prime Min-
ister of Egypt. Who
will gainsay that this
was the Divine will?’
Nobody rose and gain-
said the proposition,
the congregation not
containing a daring
spirit anxious to have
his name printed with
execration in most
every paper in Aus-
tralia. Fourteen years
ago one Andrew Fish-
er, a miner, was boy-
cotted by the employ-
ing class, and driven
pretty close to the
depths of despair, but
subsequently rose t o
be Prime Minister o f
Australia, a larger
P ’ a c ® t h a n Egypt.
Yet, when support for
the “Divine will”
theory is asked in the
living present, I am
tolerably certain that
Jos e p h’s barracker
practises abstension,
and flouts the beauti-
ful idea as embodied
m Andrew. No doubt
he would vote for
Joseph if that party
still survived, but to
vote for Andrew is a
coat of quite another color.
A dozen years or so ago, when Norman
Cameron was something of a fighting force
in the politics of his State, he was known
as Stand Alone Cameron, from an almost
inveterate habit he had of voting solus in
many divisions in the Tasmanian Assembly
lie stood alone in the condemnation of Min-
ister of Works Miles, when that pushful
mariner was “going big” ; and in the subse-
quent downfall of Miles it was generally
recognised that Cameron’s persistent, though
unpopular, opposition was responsible for
anc * or the wrecking of the
Braddon-Miles Government. Once again he
stands alone; that is, he walks out of G,e
Douse when the division is being taken on a
no-confidence motion. Maybe, when the
iongkah Harbor tin magnate hears of Cam-
eron s retreat, he will smile an inscrutable
smile, and thank his stars, as he counts his
prosperous dredges, that Cameron didn’t
develop the habit more than a decade ago.
Thomas Burgoyne, “father” of
the S. Aus. Assembly, is very
ill. He is in his 86th year, and
the recent death of his wife was
a great blow to the old man.
Though he has held his seat for
28 years, this dad of S. Aus.
politics hasn’t got fat on the
proceeds, for Ministerial office
has come his way only twice,
and stayed but 14 months altogether.
A young English actress —one of the
numerous Terry clan—who had long been
trying to convert her mother to the Suffra-
gette cause, closed the discussion by writing
one word to the mater on a postcard. The
linal word was "Doormat!’’
TULLIO
VOGHERA ,
conductor of
Italian operas , of
the Quinlan
orchestra.
EDWARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Edward the Peacemaker” dwindles to Edward
the tactful host and genial guest.
—London Chronicle.
the smoke of the censer swinging
Goes up to the vaulted roof;
The choristers’ praises ringing
Of his people’s love gives proof;
Black drapes on the house of mourning
And black in the shuttered street.
Shall Peace still live with the dawning?
(Oh! the drum’s dull, funeral heat!)
He ruled in the Court of Nations ;
Peace guided him in all things;
He kept in their proper stations
The Emperors, Queens and Kings;
The camp-fires died at his bidding ;
The battle-fleets great grew old ;
The world of war he was ridding—■
So a hurrying world was told.
But now that the print is faded,
And now that the tale is told.
Bare Truth to the world paraded
Goes shivering through the cold.
The echoes of grief are ending,
And funeral drums afar
Beat faintly. We see ascending
The smoke of a host’s cigar !
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


(Thtf
“There's no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia,- & no better
brand than ‘Three Caftles.’”— Thackeray’s “The Virginians.”
Packets of 10,and Flat Tins of 10 & 20, and Round Air-Ticht Tins of 50.
at
i
::
f'TZ'Z
mm. i
u:v.
75. ••„.* -.-ft
; .r
+-:n : x : .V
A?.
V s
> i
••
i*. %
«
I
IlSlfi
m
m
m
'■M
•v;
m
£%Vi-
;T.;
V'-A'-*.- :•••
w
(!
'..V’-i
Vliu
! /
B:
&■>*
V,
Wt
yjss
jr"
'v&>
£
T#
a®
iv; :
■W
ilSiil®
A**
s?
m
i,:y-r
s
£3
® V';
a* • s' : -v •
: V. . >■’:'*
k \ '•• V
m
-■ft
ift-
M
m
m
H:
pfst
/Hi
'it*
,oS>
IB
i
■*.'
V.*,
-1M
IS-:
$
"V'-ftft
A’O.A >
t:
i Si iiii
* 1 T .;
»: •«•»*. O'.
V v ". * •:
1
i V •
IP-
§?■
«!*•
SfcwSSg
v*
m
>A3
:-r*
•ftft
m
IS
s
SB
-
ii
i
4*?
■m:
M
•y*--
■ :r r
3 W
:s
■fev-
; : Vf*
•NS
Sillte
.-?•
-'•'ft:
■iv:
V- ■.« .
A-X;
,g»
A*:
iflill
* ’ . • ‘
•■ A» »♦ ■': :;
iIIWiSI
i-
: A ft
V*
•, .1' :$
Zbi.
lc.<.
J 1
Zi-
■ ; .•:■.::
THE FAMOUS BRAND of
W.D.& H.o:wills,
a name rhat has been before fheWorld for nearly 200 years in
connecfion wifh the manufacture of Tobacco.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
£PIE?~“ STEAM * AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS’
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
ORE BUYERS.
Cash Advances Made Against Consignments.
CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED.
EDWARDS’ ORE REDUCTION COMPANY
HEAD OFFICE: SEBASTOPOL, BALLARAT.
Cable Address :‘‘ PYRITIC,” BALLARAT. f 2
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of North Queensland :
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dee., 1904. .£2421 2£ p.c. =£1313 £llOß £19,163
.June, 1905.. 2262 2£ ~ „ 1325 937 20,100
Dec., 1905.. 2310 2£ „ „ 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 24 ~ ~ 1330 ll3l -\22,215
Dec., 1906.. 2644 2| „ ~ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 „ ~ 2113 905 24,429
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 ~ „ 2122 £4OOO 21,678
June, 1908.. 3677 4 ~ ~ 2129 1548 23,226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 „,, 2652 4500 20,144
June, 1909.. 4314 5 ~ ~ 2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909.. 4641 5 „ „ 2666 1975 23,775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 ~ ~ 2668 5000 20,824
Dec., 1910.. 4838 5 „ ~ 2671 2167 22,991
June, 1911.. 4851 5 ~ ~ 2671 4000 21,171
Dec., 1911.. 5383 6 ~ „ 3197 2186 23.357
June, 1912.. 6063 6 ~ „ 3214 2849 26,206
Having raised their dividend to 6 p.c. and satisfied
themselves that they can keep it there, the directors
have decided to get in more capital. To start with
they had more than they have now; but when the
burst came, after Queensland’s bout of fanatical bor-
rowing in the ’Bo’.s, a good deal of it had to be
written off. And it is pretty certain that most of
what wasn’t written off only existed on paper. Dur-
ing the last few years, partly as the result of the
newest fanatical bout of borrowing, Queensland pro-
perty values have improved so much that no doubt
most, if not all, of the old securities have been got
rid of at unexpectedly good prices. This, combined
with a long course of very modest, dividends, has
evidently, in the management’s opinion, put the bank
firmly on its feet; and the decision to get in more
capital may be taken as a further hint that, at the
very least, the assets are worth 20s. in the £ of
their book value. Probably they are worth more.
Certainly an Australian bank management which does
not put a bit of the current boom profits up its
sleeve, to presently make good the losses that are
almost bound to come with the inevitable reaction,
hasn’t learned all the lessons of the past. This
paper is inclined to think that, in this respect,
Queensland managements have been prudent, and have
made very fair provision for this contingency.
Big dividends, as a rule, bring custom to a bank,
because there are a lot of people who don’t realise
that the more a bank pays to its shareholders the
less it has left wherewith to protect its customers.
Still, caution pays in the long run; and this little
bank has no reason to complain. Here are its prin-
cipal figures as at June 30, a year, and 10 years
ago:—
Liabilities.
1902. 1911. 1912.
Deposits ..£236,311 £810,892 £891,058
Bills, etc. .. 90,519 29,180 71,155
Liquid assets .. 123,501* 302,304 328,171
Advances .. 298,422 620,108 702,918
Premises, etc. . . 20,027 45,501 60,543
Its total liabilities are thus £962,213; and as its
capital and visible reserves combined total £126,206
(after paying the dividend), there is nearly £8 of
the public’s money in the business for every £1 of
the shareholders’. As eight to one is over-big, and
as the proportion steadily grows bigger as the busi-
ness expands, it has been decided to get in another
£62,500. The shares are £7 each, £2 paid; this
call, payable by instalments, will take them up to
£3 ss. The average profits of the past two years
could more than pay the 6 p.c. div. on the increased
capital, though the new capital may at least be ex-
pected to pay for its own keep. In fact, both capital
and reserves earned at the rate of £9 16s. 7d. p.c.
p.a. last half-year. The recent record in that respect
is as follows:
Dec., 1907 .. £5 8 4 p.c. I June, 1910 .. £7 12 5 p.c.
June, 1908.. 6 010 ~ Dec., 1910.. 8 0 2,
Dec., 1908 .. 612 1 ~ j June, 1911.. 717 9 ~
June, 1909.. 73 7 „ Dec., 1911.. 8179 ~
Dec., 1909.. 712 5 ~ | June, 1912 .. 916 7 ~
The new capital will increase the depositors’ security;
also it will be a good thing for the borrower, for the
greater the resources of a bank the less a customer is
likely to be called on to pay up at inconvenient
times. The liquid assets represent a substantial 34
p.c. of the liabilities, and a bank with 34 p.c. isn’t
liable to be pushed into a corner by anything short
of an extra-serious financial crisis.
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors
and Agency Cos. (Ballarat, Vic.): —
Net To Ee- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1904 .. £1268 10p.c.=£750 £5lB £5,665
Dec., 1904 .. 1503 10 „ „ 750 753 6,418
June, 1905 .. 1547 10 ~ ~ 750 797 7 215
Dec., 1905 .. 1834 12 „,, 900 934 8J49
June, 1906.. 1773 10 ~ „ 750 1023 9172
Dec., 1906 .. 1858 12 „,, 900 958 10,130
June, 1907 .. 1758 10 „,, 750 1008 11,138
Dec., 1907 .. 1940 12 „,, 900 1040 12,178
June, 1908.. 1980 10 „ „ 750 1230 13,408
Dec., 1908.. 1957 12 „ ~ 900 1057 14,465
June, 1909.. 1507 10 ~ „ 750 757 15V22
Dec., 1909 .. 1421 12 „ „ 900 521 15 743
June, 1910.. 1351 10 „,, 750 601 161344
Dec., 1910.. 1913 12 „ „ 900 1013 17 357
June, 1911 .. 1826 10 „,, 750 1076 18,433
Dec., 1911 .. 1907 12 „ „ 900 1007 19 440
June 1912 / 1838 10 >. » 750 10881 ,’ Q
’ " \Transferred to Capital.. £SOOO/ 15 ,528
The capital is in 20,000 shares of 50s. paid to 155.,
and another ss. is now added out of profits, reducing
the liability on the shares to 30s. Ballarat is one
of the most solid sections of the State, and this co.
has a business to correspond. Moreover, the co.
gains by Moneybag’s steadily growing inclination to
hand over his trustee work to a professional trustee
who has put up a guarantee that he will be on hand
when he is wanted. Seveh years ago the value of
the trust estates in hand was £1,098,331 ; to-day it
is £1,606,091. The co.’s own funds, which guaran-
tee that the co. will do its work properly, are in-
vested in the most solid of securities—nearly all
Victorian inscribed stock. From that and every
0 1 * ei e V^s^e point of view the position is eminently
satisfactory. J
* * * *
Western District Co-operative Pro-
duce Cos. (Vic.) :
Bonus to Re-
Apr., Profits. Dividends. Suppliers, etc. serves
1m? " 5 p.c. = £BO £4747 £2857
1911 .. 7153 5 ~ ~ 181 6897 2932
1912 .. 9696 5,, ~ 314 8454 3860
This co. was formed in 1904 to do the marketing
for various co-operative butter factories in the
Western District of Victoria. It started with a
turnover of £389,873 in its first complete year (to
April, 1906), and has been so much of a success that
last year the business reached £823,692. Its capital
was, as usual with co-operative concerns, very small
to start with; but three or four years ago the
shareholders agreed to take half their bonus in
shares, so the paid capital has thus moved along
briskly from £1605 in 1911 to £6285 at present.
This year practically the whole of the bonus to
shareholders will go out in the shape of fully-paid
shares, and this will more than double the capital,
bringing it up to £13,390. Even that isn’t enough
in view of the size of the turnover and the extensive
schemes in hand; so the good plan will doubtless
be continued for a while. One of the new schemes
is a butter-box factory, which is so well advanced
that the first cases should be made in September.
Also the co. is taking a hand in the promotion of a
co-operative bacon-curing factory. Considering the
turnover, the co.’s book-debts are extremely moder-
ate, amounting to only about £22,000; so'the risks
appear to be comparatively small, and the bonus that
the shareholders leave in the business looks safe. No
doubt the co. could easily pay more than 5 p.c. on
that money; but when the shareholders are also the
suppliers, there is nothing to be gained by making
and paying big dividends. In fact, it is better busi-
ness for the co-operators to get the co-operative savings
once a month in the shape of top prices, rather than
once a year in the shape of bloated dividends.
Finally, it seems a fair thing to acknowledge
that these Western District people are better co-oper-
ators than most of the cow-people of N. S. Wales.
The latter are so short-sighted and greedy for cash
bonuses that there has been almost an insurrection
sometimes when it has been proposed to provide
necessary capital for an extending business, by issuing
shares instead of cash.
* * * *
The Mutual Life Insurance Cos. of New
Yoric.—This is one of the three big American offices
that pursued Australian business with much energy
a few years ago. At that time the Yankees were
busy competing among themselves for big figures.
The riot eventually attracted the notice of the Legis-
lature, which got advice and shut down on the com-
motion by the simple plan of limiting the amount
ot new business that any co. might write in a year
The practical result of that limitation is that every
year the American head office makes an allotment
ot the new business which each section can take,
mustn’t go beyond that figure. The cost at
, allotted business is done is noted at the 1
end of the year. If the figure is higher than the
average, after making allowances for special con-
ditions, it is reckoned that the allotment is too high,
and that section gets a smaller maximum for the
next year The result of this plan has been a
gradual reduction of the expense rate, which, on a
surface view, has now become quite respectable.
Last year the total inconie of the Mutual Life of
New York, apart from interest, rent and profits on
investments, was £11,397,925, and the total expenses
were £2,148,070. The expense rate was thus £lB
lbs. Hd. p.c. of the premium income. Unfortu-
nately, this co. does not differentiate between re-
newal premiums and new premiums ; and, as the per-
centage of new business is a most important factor
-i o s , matter of costs, it is impossible to say whether
iii P‘ c : * s rea Hy a cheap rate or not.
that can be said is that it is a great improve-
ment on this- co.’s own rates of a few years ago.
. Tl 2 e nl M o l *2 a ]i. l f jif^il ? st . year had a Premium income-
ot £11,302,464 (this is exclusive of £95,461 re-
ceived on account of “supplementary contracts”).
I he amount paid in dividends or bonuses during the
year was £2,799,149, while £3,110,202 was set
aside for bonuses payable in 1912. Thus last year
34.8 p.c. of the premiums were returned. In an
Australian office the bonus for 1911 is taken to be
the bonus paid in 1912, and on that basis last year’s
bonus m the Mutual Life of N.Y. was 27.4 p.c.
the best Australian bonus is about one-third higher
than that; but it is a long walk between the Aus-
tralian best and the Australian worst. Still, no
strict comparison can be made between Australian
Yankee insurance bonuses. Down to the end of
1906 most American life business was done on the
i i ei T orius !^ a P* That is to say, no bonuses were
added to the policy till the end of some period—
five 10 or 20 years. The bonuses payable in 1912
will be as follows:
On annual-bonus policies . . . . £933,005
On deferred-bonus ditto .. .. 2,177,197
Total £3,110,202
But plainly these deferred bonuses were not bonuses
earned m 1911 and paid as for that year; they are,
m fact, to some extent drafts upon a fund which,
began to accumulate as far back as 20 years ago—
that is, when the oldest deferred-bonus policy was
accepted and paid for. The reserve or accumulated
ci? Ji ture deferred bonuses now amounts t0£15,523,997,
£15,523,997, and presumably the whole of this-
sum will go to swell the bonus additions during the
currency of the existing- deferred-bonus policies. Any
comparison of bonuses actually paid year bv year
will, therefore, naturally be to the advantage of the
American office, inasmuch as the Australian offices.
Have no such accumulation, having all along been
working on that annual-bonus plan which the Ameri-
can law has now made obligatory.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Cos. :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves..
Dec., 1904 .. £1269 6 p.c. = £9OO £369 £l6 198'
June, 1905.. 881 6,, ~ 900
Dec., 1905 .. 1069 6„ „ 900 169 16,348
June, 1906.. 806 6,, ~ 900
Dec., 1906 .. 1316.6 „ „ 900 416 ie[67o-
- 1907.. 739 6,, „ 900
Dec., 1907 .. 1186 6,, ~ 900 -e- 286 16*795.
June, 1908 .. 896 6,. ~ 900
Dec., 1908.. 1261 6,, ~ 900 361 17*152
June, 1909.. 1161 6„ ~ 900 261 17,413:
Dec., 1909 .. 1464 6,, ~ .900 564 17,977
June, 1910 .. 1792 6„ „ 900 £IOOO 17,869-
Dec., 1910.. 1740 6„ ~ 900 500 340 18,209-
June, 1911.. 1316 6„ „ 900 416 18.625.
Dec., 1911.. 1028 6„ „ 900 l2B 18,753:
June, 1912.. 1242 6„ „ 900 250 92 18,845
This co. owns the fine Sydney building where the
sheep’s overcoat is sold, and the merchants meet to
tell one another unofficially that the country is going
to the dogs. Officially, the co. thinks that the dogs
are a good place to go to. Only £250 has been
written off the book value of the premises during
many years past, the idea evidently being that the-
increase in the value of the site more than counter-
balances any shrinkage in the value of the buildings.
The latter stand in the books at £69,750; and as;
the capital is only £30,000 and the reserves.
£18,845, it is obvious that there must be a con-
siderable plaster on the premises. Asa matter of'
fact, debentures and interest amount to £20,437.
The co. aims rather at providing a convenience for
the commercial part of Sydney than at coining big-
divs., so investors are not likely to get a large re-
turn from the shares unless the plans of the manage-
ment are altered. On the other hand, the risks are-
not likely to keep anybody awake at nights.
The North Coast Co-operative Cos.
(N.S.YV.), Australia’s biggest butter maker, finished'
a half-year on April 30. Its output during the past
two years has been as follows:
Oct., 1910 .. 2270 tons I Oct., 1911 .. 2088 tons:
Apl., 1911 .. 4169 „ I Apl., 1912 .. 3533 ~
Thus, for the past year the output was 5621 tons, as
against 6439 tons, the shrinkage being due to the
drought which looked in even on the North Coast.
The net profit for the half-year to the end of October
was £2953, after allowing £2200 for depreciation.
For the past half-year the profit was £1973, of
which £ISOO is put aside against depreciation. At
April 30 the capital was £23,699 and the reserves
(after writing off depreciation) £14,901; total of
capital and reserves, £38,600. Property and plant
alone have cost £103,931, written down prudently
to £50,034 ; and as the business has to be financed
as well, it is obvious that the co. has far outgrown.
its capital. This is the weak point in nearly all
these co-operative cos.: they begin small and grow
quickly, but the co-operators are so hungry for cash
bonuses that the reserves are starved. In this case
a compromise has been adopted. The bonus to sup-
pliers is being paid half in cash and half in shares.
This bonus, paid after the October balance, amounted
last year to £4872, or equal to |d. per lb. of butter
manufactured. In other words, after getting what
was reckoned the full market value of the fat, the
supplier got another farthing, representing what
Private Enterprise would have collared as his profit
if the business had been entrusted to him. It can’t
be impressed too hard on the co-operator that every
penny he leaves in the business is a penny added to
the fund which guarantees him the full payment for
his produce in the future. The co-operator who
starves the co. on which he depends for payment is
like the fool well-sinker who tries to save a bit by
hauling himself up and down by odds and ends of
rope tied together. And besides being a guarantee
fund, the money he leaves in the business is work-
ing all the time and more than earning its keep;
and what it earns is his—his and his brother co-
operators. Besides the bonus the co. pays a regular
5 p.c. div.
The Siiortland Islands Plantations,
Ltd., is in the Burns-Philp stable (Sydney), and is
under practically the same management as the Solo-
mon Islands Development Cos. Having been formed
only at the beginning of 1911, the co. is harvesting
no crops yet. The paid capital is £10,995, in 495
shares of £SO, of which 42 fully paid went to
vendors, plus £2300 in cash; the other 453 are paid
to £ls, and another £5 will probably be called up
in a few. months. Rubber and copra are the products
with which the co. hopes to line its pockets by-and-
bye. Meantime it is like most of these cos., short of
labor, and the directors say that “development must
be restricted until permission is granted for the in-
troduction of outside laborers” —a permission which
the authorities don’t at present ,seem at all inclined
to grant.'
The Ulladtjlla Refrigerating Rutter
Cos. is one of the hundred or more similar little co-
operative cos. scattered over N. S. Wales. Its
home is at Milton, on the South Coast. With a
capital of £2691 it paid its milk suppliers £34,026
in the past year, and sold the bulk of the produce
to the wholesale co-operative cos. Its policy being
to pay the utmost price to the suppliers, it made a
profit of only £372, of which £195 is written off
against depreciation, and 5 p.c. is paid in dividends.
Like most of these little co-operative cos., it is
worked very economically, and its position appears
to be thoroughly sound.
The annual accounts of the Nippon Tusen
Kaisha (Japan Mail S.S. Cos.) show how Nip. pro-
duces a balance-sheet. It is a pretty sad admission
to make, but no Australian shipping concern pro-
duces, one in so satisfactory a form. The Australian
shipping concern never, by any accident, shows the
amount written off against depreciation ; conse-
quently it can inflate or deflate its profits by writing
off either too little or too much, and shareholders
and the public don’t know which of the two is hap-
pening. The N.Y.K., on the other hand, publishes its
figures; anyway, it publishes some figures. It has
a fleet valued at £2,610,874 (taking the yen at
25.). It wrote off last half-year £92,782, or about
3£ p.c. But, in addition, it put £57,549 to a
“ships’ structural repair fund” and another £50,000
to a fund “for the extension of services and imorove-
ment of fleet.” The gross profit for the half-year
was £404,622. Out of that only £IIO,OOO was
paid in dividend (10 p.c. p.a.) ; the balance went
to reserves. The capital is £2,200,000; and the re-
serve funds just exceed £3,000,000 —and that doesn’t
include a depreciation fund, the amount set aside
for depreciation being written right off. Apparently
this half-year wasn’t anything very extra, either';
at any rate, the fact that the co. has liquid assets
(mostly deposits) amounting to £2,463,317 seems
to point to bloated profits for some time past.
The bigger the Australian life-insurance
■office the more it complains, as a rule, about the
alleged rapacity of Australian Governments ; and
mostly it tries to convey that, in the matter of
taxation, nowhere else in the world are such’provi-
dent institutions treated so seurvily. Asa matter of
fact, Australian offices lounge in an easy-chair com-
pared with the spiked stool the American offices
have been dropped on to. The Mutual Life of N.
York’s report, just arrived, mentions that “the
recent decision of the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, that life insurance dividends [that is,
bonuses] are taxable, under the corporation income
tax law enacted by Congress, has occasioned much
■comment.” Of course the American offices point out
now that what they have always spread-eagled as
“dividends,” are really not dividends at all. And
that is mostly true. Dividends are something paid
■out of profits, whereas these things—which in Aus-
tralia we call bonuses—are mainly refunds of over-
charges. But a small herring like that isn’t going
to turn the U.S. Government off the trail of revenue
when revenue is wanted.
The Clyde Engineering Cos. (N.S.W.),
■which has just been given the job of building an-
other 100 locos, for the State’s railways, got itself
taken off the Stock Exchange list a few weeks ago.
’The directors’ idea apparently was that the
workmen might want another ha’penny an hour if
they saw that the stock had moved up 3d. in the
market. The present co., which dates back to 1898,
has done pretty well of late years, and its last divi-
dend was at the rate of 10 p.c. on its capital of
£125,000. How much its profits were in excess of
£12,500 isn’t manifest, because, as usual, it wrote
■off an unspecified . amount “for reserve, insurance
fund and depreciation.” The visible reserves as at
; September 30 last, after providing for the dividend,
were a very moderate £27,240. Its financial posi-
tion was very easy. The co. last year finished a
first lot of 60 locos, two years ahead of contract
time; another lot of 15 have been in hand lately;
:and the new lot of 100, to cost something over
£600,000, will, it is expected, be turned out at the
rate of about two a month.
“Westralian finance; an unexpected im-
provement,” the daily papers announce. Yet West-
ralian finance could do with a lot more improvement
without having too much of it. The year began with
a so-called surplus of £13,298 and ended with a
deficit of £121,111 ; so that, apart from loan ex-
penditure, the State lived beyond its income to the
extent of £134,409. For the past 10 years
Westralia has had more deficits than surpluses—-a
shameful record in view of the fact that mostly-
foreign cos. have been digging gold out of it to the
extent of over £7,000,000 a year, as an average, for
the past 12 years. When a State comes down sud-
denly on to its uppers, it may be forgiven if for a
while it can’t make ends meet; but for the same
thing to happen year after year to a State that is
bursting with affluence can mean only one thing
■disgraceful mismanagement.
These are Queensland’s expenditure figures
for the last four mouths of the financial year *
March, £300,530 ; April, £327,037 ; May, £360,057 ;
■June, £618,893. It looks very like the ancient fake.
Under a law passed by Hugh Nelson, any and every
surplus has to go in reduction of the old'l OU. But
Kids ton showed a way to mock the good law; up-
ending George Reid’s bag of tricks, he ate up his sur-
plus by the simple plan of charging in June for a
heap of things that shouldn’t rightly come into the
accounts till July or August. That means, of course
that next year s expenditure is eased to the extent
perhaps of £300,000. Queensland has just had a
general election, so it doesn’t matter much to Den-
ham whether he has a big surplus or a very little
orie * , Twelve months hence it may be different. It
may be 3.dvis3,blG then for him to wgrt the
size in haloes that he can get hold of. So, by mop-
ping up his big surplus now, paying for this current
year s services with it, he puts himself in a good
position to produce a big surplus, and thus achieve
a large-sized halo next year. Whether Denham has
actually practised this fake cannot yet be said for
certain, of course; but the Auditor-General has
drawn attention to the practice again and again, and
the figures so far available all point to a repetition
of the same discreditable juggle this year.
“Pariah” : Things are very dull in Mel-
bourne stock-jobbing circles, and getting duller. The
policy of the committee becomes more and more
conservative as the great Broken Hill boom gets left
further and further behind. It has choked business
by forbidding members to allow “half com.” to
agents, a practice pursued in almost every other
Stock Exchange outside Tripoli, Fez and Melbourne.
It has forbidden members to take as partner anybody
who is not a member of the Exchange. There are,
however, signs of rebellion, and at the elections in
September it is likely the old order will be beaten. The
rule to stop allowing half coins, to agents was passed
by 51 to 24, amidst loud and prolonged applause. On
a division now these figures might be reversed, be-
cause the younger members perceive what a deadly
effect on business the rule has had, by stopping the
receipt of orders from bona-ficle agents outside the
Stock Exchange, who are in daily touch with investors
of every class. Besides, there is a suspicion the rule
is not too strictly observed.
, A view of the gold-mining position in
S Africa: “Donald Currie and Cos. controlled and ran
the Union Castle line of steamships plying between
London and South Africa, a line that has made
phenomenal profits, chiefly from passenger traffic,
fed from the wealth of the Band. Donald Currie
and Cos. are also interested in several of the mines
of the Rand, and employ a mining engineer, who is
no fool. What he has reported to his principals no
outsider knows; but 1 am perfectlv certain that he
has foreseen and predicted a coming debacle. The
outstanding fact is that Donald Currie sold out what
is, and would always be, a splendid business were
the mines to last forever—sold it at a high price to
a shipping firm, which does not employ a mining
engineer, and which never, apparently, had any in-
dependent reports as to the health of the goose that
had laid the golden eggs.
“There are to-day between 150,000 and 200,000
white persons supported along the 50 miles of con-
glomerate beds that form the banket reefs of the
Rand. The gold occurs in these conglomerate or
pebble beds, lying in quartzites, much as coal
seams occur in sandstones. The beds outcrop
for about 50 miles east and west,: and dip into the
ground towards the south, at an angle which varies
up to 60 degrees or more. The dip is very much
steeper near the surface than in depth—in other
words, the beds lie flatter the deeper they go. They
are unique in their regularity and in their average
richness in gold. The earliest arrivals pegged out
the . outcrop, and, assuming that the reefs kept a steep
dip, were not anxious to peg out very far on the
dip towards the south. Later on, when it was dis-
covered that the reefs flattened in depth, the ground
to the south of the outcrop was pegged out, and the
so-called Deep mines started work. As time went on
another row of mines, the Deep Deeps, was started.
“To-day Johannesburg is thus sustained by
three rows of mines, working the reef series down
to about 4000 ft. in vertical depth. Of these the
Outcrop mines have been working for about 20 years.
Several of thefri are worked out already, and many
more, including some of the largest and most im-
portant, will be worked out in about five 3'ears, or
sooner. The Deep mines have not been working for
quite so long, but nearly all of them will be worked
out in from 10 to 15 years, and some sooner than,
that. But this does not really represent the re-
duction of the means of support that the Rand must
shortly suffer, because the Deep mines occupy larger
areas than the Outcrop mines, and the Deep Deeps
very much larger areas again; so that where there
were (say) 40 Outcrop mines, there are only 20
Deep mines and only 10 Deep Deep mines. There
are thus less shafts, batteries, offices and treatment
works to afford employment. In the newer mines,,
all the units for hoisting, crushing, etc., have been
laid out to economise labor. ' It is, therefore, evident
that from now onward the Rand must decline as an
employer of labor, unless anew row of Very Extra
Deep mines be started to develop the very specially
Deep ground; but the prospects of the Deep Deep
mines have not been such as to give much hope for
any deeper row. It is certainly denied that the ore
becomes poorer in depth; but so far there does not
seem any reason to believe that the Rand will be
different from other mining fields, and that the value
of the ore will not become less in denth, where it
will be more expensive to mine. This rate of de-
cline may be slower than on other fields, but some
decline or other must be expected.
“Will the exhaustion of the rich gold fields produce
such an emigration that the hold of the whites will
be slackened on S’Africa? Even to-day the native
tribes—Basuto, Zulu, etc. —are throwing aside their
tribal hatreds, and learning to combine and to hold
conferences, and to join hands in agitations. Has
the white race, Dutch and English, virility enough
when the time of stress and poverty comes, to take
up the burden, and really work ? ' Have they the
virility to breed faster than their servants and
enemies, the black? Time will alone show; but
from what I have seen, I doubt. Happy White Aus-
tralia no price is too big to pav for race purity
and a white country!”
The maturing of a minute quantity of
radium bromide, at an Australian laboratory—-in
Woolwich, near Sydney—is arousing keen interest.
The Radium Hill Co.’s magnetic concentrator, at
Olary, some 200 miles north-west of Adelaide, effects
a fairly high concentration of uranium and iron
oxides. But as it is the oxide of iron that is drawn bv
the magnet, this dry concentration is limited to the
quantity of iron capable of being concentrated. The
associated uranium oxide is the stuff that carries
the most value, for after the exceedingly minute pro-
portion of radium is taken out, the uranium oxide
residue is worth something if the percentage of
uranium is fairly high. In such matters it is pos-
sible to make serious miscalculations, an example of
which recently occurred at Mount Painter (S.A.).
At what was reckoned the richest portion of the lease
rv only nine tons of ore could be selected
that would average 3 p.c. uranium oxide, and this
was obtained from the cracks in the rocks. Yet
Mount Painter had provided some lovely specimens
from what appear to be superficial deposits, and
further prospecting may yet disclose something of
real value there.
Said that the Sulphide Corporation has
an idea of turning the nitrogen in the Newcastle
coal _to commercial account, and the energetic and
far-sighted co. reckons to thereby reduce its power
and fuel bill so much that it will pay to smelt locally
that part of the silver-lead concentrates which has
hitherto been exported.
* * * *
The Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.)
has its dam more than half full of water, and the bat-
tery should be ready to crush on August 1. Good
stone is being raised from Phillipson’s north level,
along which there is 150 ft,, worth from 3oz. to 4oz.
per ton. Another rise has been put up 36ft. at a
point 282 ft. from the tunnel, and everything has
been done to prepare the level—some 350 ft. in length
on payable stone—for a vigorous stoping campaign.
Driving will be continued on Phillipson’s reef further
north, but at the moment the reef beyond the cross-
low values. The most important feature
of this shoot in Phillipson’s is the large area of un-
explored ground above and below the level.
* * * *
After two years’ battling, Vegetable Creek
(N.b.W.) has made a 3d. call for July. The £12,819
got for tin last year all came from the Rock shaft;
and, besides paying heavy royalty and interest, this
little lot allowed of the sinking and equipment of
L,handler s shaft. Lower down the lead another shaft


Skilled Organisation
Brings Success.
Expert management to-day accounts for
businesses quickly taking the lead, caus-
ing chagrin to competitors. The “live”
concern, ever ready to improve, pro-
gresses. Half-hearted, misguided methods
invariably bring failure. We’ll skilfully
and successfully work your company,
float your undertaking, and arrange for
subdivision and selling of your suburban
or country estate. We also act as Trus-
tees and Attorneys under power. Call.
Telephones—City 2391, 2392.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
Sydney 8 London. (Capital £500,000.)
J. EARLE HERMANN, Managing Director.
, ; 0< C. COTTRELL, Secretary.
Yaralla Chambers (3rd Floor),
109 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
EPS
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AQENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
-+-GF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. — Asl: the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+GF + Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
Considerable saving of fuel in generating steam is
being effected by the use of reliable cocks and valves,
steam-resisting engine packing and jointing
material; also by protecting heated surfaces to pre-
vent radiation and ensure transmission of heat.
Bell’s asbestos packed boiler mountings, “Belfry”
steam valves, “Dagger” packing, “Bellite” jointing
and asbestos non-conducting composition, rope lag-
ging and “Wadnit” mattresses can be obtained direct
from the makers. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney. *
* * * *
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Filter is the “Wilfley.” It is continuous, and
consists of a revolving drum which is partly sub-
merged in a tank of slimes or material to be fil-
tered. The drum is covered with a filter cloth sup-
ported on grooves on the drum, which are connected
by means of holes to the interior, to allow the liquid
to be withdrawn. Through the trunnions at the end
of the drum the vacuum pipe passes, through which
the liquid and air are withdrawn by means of a
vacuum pump. The filtered slime is removed
by a simple apparatus placed at or below the
level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly the
cake is removed, the surface of the filter cloth, as it
revolves, is immediately re-immersed in the pulp
ready to receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing
the sucking in of air and consequent loss of vacuum
between the time the cake is removed and a fresh
one forming. The residual liquid in the slime cake
is removed by distributing water over the surface of
the semi-dried cake. Owing to the fact that the
filter is circular in form, it will be seen that it is
continuous in operation, and has no complication of
valve to get out of order; furthermore, work ts
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the drum. The Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany, of South Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Financier (London), dated Septem-
ber 2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain, and South Africa, it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
For large or small water carrying propositions
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has proved its efficiency. It
is the pipe chosen for the great water supply scheme
at Broken Hill. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain and Footscray, are the makers.*
A Money Maker. We can demonstrate that, for
the expenditure of a small sum, to save you 15 to
25 per cent, of fuel, and reduce wear and tear on
your Steam Plant, by installing a “Wadham”
Economiser (Contraflo Circulation System). Haes
and Eggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney. (See
p. 41.)*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc., of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
pipes for the new O’Shannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£100,000. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
The Bolinder Heavy-Duty Marine oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the “Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
« * * ■*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
is to be sunk, between Chandler’s and the Rock
shaft, where the manager considers that “the flat
grade of the lead suggests that results here may be
more uniform.” The lead has always been patchy,
holding out hopes of large pot-holes ahead, but
barren stretches of late have told their tale.
Mount David (N.S.W.) is on a “nice
joint” in the drive from No. 1 crosscut, but the
trouble is that the reef is not there. Driving north-
wards and eastwards has so far failed to give even
a taste, and shares are getting lean in consequence.
Economies are being effected and the belt drawn up
a couple of holes until the expected find is made.
The warden at last begins to turn a cold
eye on the coquetting between the Mount Drysdale
and the New Eldorado (N.S.W.). After 12 months’
undisturbed retirement, they blushingly asked to be
allowed more time to consider the question. The
warden wasn’t enthusiastic, but allowed four months’
labor suspension, and begged them to hurry up their
scheme of mutual support.
The Long Tunnel, at Gundagai (N.S.W.),
has another of its spasms, and produces 1320 z. gold
from a few lb. of stone. The specimens were obtained
from the 280 ft. level. One of 71b. alone gave 50oz.
gold.
Rowley’s Reef, between the Reward and
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.), is going in for a
bit of deep sinking. The Patriarch shaft is to be
sunk until 1000 ft. is reached. Developments at that
depth will be watched like a worm by all the cos.
perched up on top. So far the downward penetration
of their ore bodies is only a matter of guesswork.
Additional capital is being raised for the worthy
purpose.'
Broken Hill is having a good time; the
official valuation of the half-year’s mineral exports
was £2,013,034. A striking feature in the return
is the high price paid for silver-lead concentrates,
which are valued at nearly £lO per ton. For
.Tune, 25,371 tons were valued at £249,824, which
is the net return to Broken Hill. Zinc concentrates,
on the other hand, realise a low price, averaging
under £3 per ton. Thus, during June, 35,146 tons
only returned £104,247. After making a liberal
deduction for metal losses, there should be a fine
profit on the treatment of these zinc concentrates,
and the B. H. Prop, will sooner or later let Australia
know what the spelter industry is worth. In America
very much higher prices are paid for zinc ore, but
then the Yankee smelts on the spot and uses the
spelter locally. Australia, with its small population,
is no doubt differently situated; still, looking at
the large importations of galvanised goods, there is
already a trade well worth development.
G. C. Klug now has entire control of 8.,
M. and Co.’s Australasian business, with Melbourne
as headquarters. W. A. Macleod, lately of Charters
Towers, takes charge of the Westralian branch some
time in August, and will find on arrival that the
firm is in rather reduced circumstances in that quar-
ter at present.
Over in the West an agitation has been
started for the establishment of Government gold-
buying agencies in the chief producing centres, in
opposition to the banks, which now have a monopoly.
By this means, it is contended, claim-holders would
get a substantial reduction in realisation charges,
which it is alleged now range up to as high as 5 p.c.
of the gross value of the gold.
* * * *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) showed a working
loss of £1096 for the year just ended, reducing the
profit and loss credit to £5567. Against this,
£2OOO has been charged to depreciation, leaving
£3567 to carry forward. The working of both the
Kalgoorlie and Magnet properties was unprofitable,
and only a pile of residues now remains to be treated
at the latter show. All the payable ore has been
extracted. Anew mine is now being looked for.
G. P. Doolette presided at the Bullfinch
meeting in London, and blamed labor troubles and
other things for the delay in plant erection. He
promised that crushing would be started in Sep-
tember, and won applause for his airy assurance
that the co. would be in a position to talk about
dividends at the end of the year. He didn’t say
what year. Manager Morgan is well again, but it
is unlikely that he will return to the mine. His
health won’t stand it.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) shows a net
profit of £23,584 for the year ended February 29,
and of this amount the Board has set aside £15,000
as a working balance at Kalgoorlie, leaving £8584
to be carried forward. Ore reserves are estimated
at 136,197 tons of 28s. sd. ore in the Lake View,
and 287.523 tons, worth, 28s. 5d., in the Hannans
Star. This is an increase of 20,402 tons compared
with the previous year’s figures. Hopes are enter-
tained that present returns will be maintained for a
year or two to come, but the people who entertain
them are optimists.
* *■ * *
Kyarra (W.A.) has made a start to put
things ship-shape on its newly-acquired Meekatharra
show. Winding and pumping gear has been pur-
chased, and is expected to be ready for use on
August 1. Shaft sinking will then be continued to
200 ft., where a crosscut will be driven to test the
reef in hard ground. This mine has a chance.
One or two good developments have taken
place in the Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) lately, but it
will be some months before the improved appearance
of the property will be reflected in the returns.
Meantime, the management is straining every nerve
to better the extraction, which, as already noted,
has been a bit off-color for some time.
* * * *
Share and debenture holders in the Phil-
lips River Cos. (W.A.) have, in view of the enhanced
price of copper, decided to club together and raise
more working capital. Half a million or thereabouts
has been spent already; and while the expenditure
of more money may demonstrate for a time that the
eo. is not dead, it will be almost a miracle if the
concern ever reaches the dividend-paying stage. The
prospects of the co.’s properties were never good
enough to warrant such a heavy capitalisation, and
they are not nearly so pleasing to the eye in the bot-
tom as they were near the top.
* * * *
Rowan’s Find (W.A.) seems to be again
in a hopeless position. A few poor returns have
been obtained from its Morgans show, and apparently
it has again been made the dupe of unsound valua-
tion. Good reports of developments are still coming
to hand, but in view of past blunders little reliance
can be placed in them.
Kurnalpi (W.A.) has again come into the
limelight through the discovery of 71 8 oz ofgokl’
including one specimen of 450 z. This field first ob
traded itself on public notice in February, 1894, and
in the beginning of March lOOOoz. were specked. A
thousand men were soon on the spot, and from what
was called Social Flat a lot of alluvial gold was won.
But the costs were very high. Flour ran- into £5
for a 501 b. bag, and water was 2s. to 3s. per gallon.
A number of good-sized nuggets were afterwards ob-
tained from reefing claims, but for some years Kur-
nalpi mining has been almost as dead as a poached
egg- , * *
For June Great Fitzroy (Q.) turned out
154 41 tons of blister, containing 153.46 tons copper,
7270 z. gold and 37270 z. silver. On the expectation
of receiving nearly £BO per ton for its copper ( £79
19s. 9d. j, it calculates its revenue at £16,094
a risky estimate, considering that copper has only
just run up to that price after being for years far
below it. Working costs figure at £13,381, in ad-
dition to which £893 was spent on plant. Deduct-
ing these exnenses from the gross revenue, there is
a balance of £IB2O. Though better than a loss,
this surplus isn’t at all satisfactory, for the working
cost of producing fine copper figures at £B7 per ton.
To obtain 1534 tons of copper, 3466 tons of ore were
smelted, so the average furnace extraction from a
mixture of crude ore and sintered concentrates was
442 p.c. copper. The mill, which has been looked
upon as a saviour for this enterprise, treated 5050
tons of crudes for 981 tons of concentrates, assaying
9.45 p.c. copper and 6.45dwt. gold. The result may
be good from a technical point of view, but costs,
costs, costs!
* * * *
The Mount Oxide people, sure of a float
because the shares were underwritten, are losing no
time. Brick-makers are already at the mine pre-
paring the material for the reverbs., and the build-
ing will be pushed on, so that matte may be running
this side of Christmas —in November, probably.
Underground the 208 ft. north drive is to be attacked
with two shifts, and further winzing is to be done
to open up the rich ore pierced by the No. 1 winze
already sunk.
* * * *
Hampden-Cloneurry (Q.) is preparing
the Duchess mine for a stoping campaign. Ihose
who remember the glossy reports when the northern
section of the 110 ft., 260 ft., 400 ft. and 550 ft. levels
were being developed, may well believe that the
dump contains some good ore, which the co. is natur-
ally anxious to turn into money. Before suspending
smelting, 8928 tons were treated for matte, contain-
ing 894 tons copper, 887 oz. gold, and 11,3740 z.
s i] ver _an average of approximately 10 p.c. copper
and nearly 2dwt. gold per ton of ore. The ore re-
serves have been estimated at 239,658 tons, but the
highest grade stuff is limited to 68,000 tons, valued
at 16 p.c. Reckoning the actual furnace extraction
at 15 p.c., the contents in this 68,000 tons work out
at 10,200 tons of copper. The total reserves in all
the co.’s mines are estimated at 239,658 tons, but
much of it is only of milling grade.
» * * *
Mungana (Q.) gets no for’arder. “The
shortage of labor and the increased cost of fuel have
caused a loss for the year of £11,844, and other
charges include an allowance of £2269 for depre-
ciation.” As usual, the mines were not to blame.
Most metals, including those produced by this co.,
have risen more in value than either labor or fuel;
but that small circumstance isn’t worth mentioning.
The whole group of Chillagoe-Mungana mines is
probably quite hopeless; but there is a gamble in the
shares, and there are the Chillagoe railway and the
smelters to be fed, so Mungana shareholders have
agreed to put up another £25,000 —mostly in the
hope of getting it back from somebody else when
there is a kick in the market. No dividend has ever
been paid by this Chillagoe group, but various people
have got quite rich out of it, all the same. Which
means that the general public has fallen in.
* * * *
Since striking the pay shoot at the 2540 ft.
level, Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, has crushed
1008 tons for £7206. Some admirers reckon that
there is a payable area 300 ft. x 300 ft. above No. 4,
but that is certainly optimistic, considering the size
and quality of the vein followed in the neighboring
winze. The weakest feature, as disclosed by develop-
ment, is the blank ground extending from the bot-
tom of the winze to within a few feet. of the reef,
showing at the end of No. 5 level. It is, of course,
impossible to say how far the good stone will extend
to the south-west, which is the course taken by the
level above. When the new hauling and air-com-
pressing plant is in commission, development will be
pushed on more rapidly, and a few days should see
the finishing touches given to the plant. No other
co. on the Towers has worked the reef now being
opened by the Deeps, and the co. has had but in-
different luck with the formation in the three upper
levels.
» # * *
Brilliant P.C., Charters Towers, has
broken through . from the end of its western drive
to the level driven eastward from the Freehold’s
boundary. The excitement over Day Dawn develop-
ments has died out, but now that the ventilation has
been improved it will be possible to get back into
the winze and prospect the reef near the bottom, a
trial crushing from which returned £4 9s. lOd. per
ton. Meantime, the Stockholm mine, which belongs
to the Brilliant Cos., is providing funds ; it crushed
for the month 734 tons, averaging £4 18s. 4d. per
ton.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, has had
improved returns from the mill recently. A general
clean-up gave £743 from 178 tons. Mills’ United
prospected both No. 4 and No. 3 levels, coming to-
wards. the Mexican’s boundary, but did not obtain
anything like such good prospects as in No. 5 level,
which in its turn was greatly inferior to No. 6. The
latter made good in the Mexican close to the New
Brilliant Freeholds’ boundary. Knowing what the
Day Dawn is like, it would not be surprising if the
Mexican struck a payable shoot within the extensive
area above No. 4 level; but it is just a prospecting
chance, for, as said before, each successive level
above No. 6 has been poorer than the one below.
* * *• *
Central Ajax is the likeliest looking stock
at Daylesford (Vie.) just now. A rise was put up
from No. 3 level over 100 ft. from the shaft, to
hunt after the flat make that was cut in the shaft.
It hit quartz, but the quality of the stone occasions
as much talk as a Toorak wedding. The co. has its
battery ready, so it can go on poking about for
another flat make on the North Nuggetty boundary,
with the certainty that a bit of good stuff can be
drawn on meanwhile from the vertical reef that
comes in over the Ajax boundary. Moreover, it has
a splendid asset in the little group of directors that
govern its destiny. These are men who, when they
let their right hand know what (heir left hand
doeth, also acquaint the world of the fact.
Central Cathcart, Ararat, has had an-
other rich yield—l6ooz. from 16 fathoms, with the
drives still going ahead in rich wash. If this con-
tinues, McCrorey’s promised £5 per share seems
imminent. Some of the South Glenfine sparks are be-
lieved to be splashing a bit in the Cathcart gutter.
If they pick up treasure as neatly as they did over
the South Glenfine, the years of intervening dullness
will have a rare recompense. Still, it can’t be for-
gotten that when divs. were strained out of the
South Glenfine pan, they wouldn’t run into £3 a share.
Nor have those at the Cathcart so far, although the
co. has been hunting the golden slipper over a solid
li miles of the lead.
New Moon, Eaglehawk (Vic.), is still
behind a cloud. Certainly it paid one div. of £I2OO
(Is. per share) during the past half-year, and put
£lB2 to its reserve fund; but to do this the bank
balance (apart from reserve fund) was carved down
from £1399 to £625. The reserve fund, on deposit,
is now £2182. Most of the stone has been coming
from the 1345 ft. level, where prospects are still very
fair. The run of quartz is small, but there is 900 ft. of it
before it passes into the next claim. A little stone
has also been got at 2325 ft., and another 120 ft. of
driving should get the same make at the 2425 ft.
The co. is also prospecting the Paddy’s Gully and
Derby lines, and on the latter something worth writ-
ing home about may happen at any time.
* * * *
“Quarry Hill”: The first New Moon Cos.
was a co-operative party formed in 1867 to work
342 ft. on the line of reef. There were then 16
shares in the co. During the past 44 years close up
to £1,000,000 worth of gold has been won from
the mine. The figures throw a strong light upon the
method of mining in Bendigo—in fact, in Victoria.
After spending £l6O the co. got on a run of spurs, and
paid small dividends almost from the start. Directly
machinery was erected the gold yield fell off, and in
1874-—a new co. having meantime been formed —-
5300 shares were forfeited for a sixpenny call. The
fortunes of the mine fluctuated for the next 14 years
—till 1892—calls following dividends regularly as
the seasons. In 1892 a payable reef was struck, at
685 ft., and the mine has ever since been a producer
of gold. In the last 20 years 466,818 tons of stone
have been crushed for 186,8170 z., or an average of
Bdwt., or just about 2dwt. below the average yield
of the Johannesburg banket mines. The gold fetched
£741,181, and divs. totted up £353,400, or 47 p.c.
of the gold, a fact which attests the economy of
working. Average costs were ss. lid. a ton, a
figure seldom leached by a big gold mine, either
Australian or South African. A total of 32,245 ft.
has been driven, sunk, etc., at an estimated cost of
2s. 3d. per ton of the quartz crushed, or £1 12s. 6d.
per foot. Shaft-sinking has cost £5 ss. a foot down to
2000 ft., though the last 200 ft. cost £7 2s. 9d., which,
in itself, is a forcible argument against the deep-sinking
madness which has obsessed the Bendigo mining
man far too long to be good for the field. New
Moon gold is practically worth £4 an oz., and the
smelting loss equals 18dwt. p.c. For 11 years 36
p.c. of the total gold has been obtained from the
stamp boxes. According to the experience of the New
Moon, this is an argument against using extra-heavy
stamps. Since 1892 the New Moon has paid £l4
14s. 6d. per share in dividends; and the fact that
shares once stood at £ls 10s. in the market,
shows how prone the general public is to over-value
the stock of such companies.
* * * »
The Sydney Syndicate running the Renni-
son Bell Central (Tas.) is to be floated into a co.
to provide the means for a treatment plant. A re-
port on the property states that lodes Nos. 1, 2 and
3 are 20ft., 40ft. and 42ft. wide, and average from
1 to 1-J p.c. tin. The estimated net value in sight
in the first two is close on £200,000. It sounds
beautiful; but a couple of bulk crushings are needed.
Tin estimates are not things to bank on.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) continues to smelt
a regular 100 tons of tin oxide per month. The total
for the latter half of 1911 was 550 tons of oxide,
containing between 300 and 400 tons of almost pure
tin. Bischoff gets very close to absolute purity, for
its metal assays 99.86 p.c. The smelting works deal
with much larger quantities of oxide than are pro-
duced by the mine, the return for six months being
2007 tons of tin ore, smelted for 1417 tons of metal.
But there probably isn’t much profit in custom work,
as returning charges are cut to the bone now that
prices are high. A register of only 12,000 shares
accounts for the co.’s big-looking 10s. dividend per
month ( £6000). Working costs are 4s. 3.88 and. per ton
of ore, and the average return of oxide 10.21 b. per ton.
The quantity of ore handled per month varies con-
siderably ; during January 20,680 tons were milled,
while last month only 17,688 tons were put through.
With regard to the future, all that can be said is
that Bischoff would have to struggle for a living if
the tricky metal went down to £IOO per ton —and
though it doesn’t look at all likely now, the disaster
has happened frequently.
* * * *
Discord is again ripping the poor old
Zeehan Hercules (Tas.) in twain. Seemingly the
Primrose cum German smelter crowd don’t appear
to be any prettier to some of the Hercules directors
than did the Gorgon’s head to Perseus of old.
Plainly what the Hercules shareholders are asked
to do is to give Weinberg, Bowes Kelly and Tullock
a hand to blend the Primrose and the Zeehan smelters
with a mine. Weinberg, formerly of Chillagoe, also
introduces the Oker process for de-zincing slags.
Those who want to bump the Hercules direc-
tors who object to the amalgamation, might find
out whether the Broken Hill people have tested the
Oker process, and what they think of it. If it is
worth much, why does not the Proprietary, with its
huge heaps of mucky slags, adopt the Oker process?
The Hercules shareholders have other processes
available than one about which they know so little
• —practically nothing except from interested or semi-
interested people.
J.A.8.: Might as well ask us which is the
best suburb to live in. Several of the offices have
distinctive qualities. Only thing we can suggest is
that you should read the post-mortems as the co.’s
accounts are dissected... .J.S.: Sorry. Cannot ad-
vise that way: this paper isn’t a market tipster.
* * * *r
To the man in the street, geology seems
about as important politically as the religious train-
ing of the natives of Nova Zembla ; but the man in
the street is generally a fool, and in this instance a
very complete and emphatic specimen. The States
run geological surveys, which are for the most part
subsidies to Private Enterprise. In N. S. Wales the
work is done as well as it is anywhere, yet it is
mostly a thing of shreds and patches, improved and
added to from time to time as information happens
to come to hand. Some excuse may be found for
this in the fact that the older States came into
existence when ignorance was as plentiful as funds
were scarce; but no excuse can be found for allow-
ing the geological survey of the Northern Territory
to be conducted with the same lack of method. It
is admitted that an enormous part of the wealth of
the northern end of Australia lies in its minerals.
The search for these minerals ought to be system-
atised and arranged by the Australian Government,
and the first step towards system and order is a
thorough survey. In other parts of Australia pro-
specting parties have wasted splendid effort in look-
ing for what geological knowledge of the country
would have shown to be non-existent, while vast
wealth has remained undiscovered until recent years
for lack of a hint that it was likely to be found
thereabout. If the Northern Territory is to profit by
past experiences the survey ought to be put in hand
at once.
* * * ♦
It was announced the other day that the
insurance cos. —which practically all work under a
tariff —had decided to cover strike risks. The an-
nouncement is only quarter true. Ordinary marine
policies don’t cover losses resulting from war or
“civil commotion.” “Civil commotion” didn’t use
to include losses, say, by fire directly the outcome of
a strike; but the underwriters grabbed the oppor-
tunity offered by some alleged strike incendiarism
at Liverpool to expressly bar such losses. Following
that, of course, they offered to insure the risk —for
an extra Is. p.c., as a usual thing. This is the strike
insurance that is now announced. Ordinary fire
policies don’t cover such losses: if there were a strike
disturbance and a house or factory were burned, the
insurance eo. wouldn’t be liable, unless it had issued
a special policy—cost, anything from Is. 6d. up-
wards p.c. In Brisbane a few weeks ago 5s. p.c.
was charged for a year’s insurance of this sort. And
the cos. pocketed the premium and smiled, for it was
all profit.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Boiler
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*


lllfl
Goidtlsrcianllrtok
HEERINGd
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBIB. .
Buchanan’s
“BLACK
(El
WHITE.”
A GRAND SPIRIT
If
"Black 8 White
is indeed a " grand
spirit.” Matured for
years in Scotland
before shipment.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, July 15, 1912.
My Dear Abini, —
After the Quinlan Opera Co. came the
deluge. It tore round the premises that con-
tained the lales of Hoffmann” on Satur-
day night, and flooded the sloppy streets
with most of the rain Jupiter Pluvius had
saved up during the January dog days. Her
Majesty s Theatre was comfortably packed
with the most expensive diamond pendants,
ospreys and exclusive frills of this section
ot the Commonwealth. The d.c. loomed in
a soft glare of electric bulbs, with an ex-
smile of anticipation, when conduc-
tor Jvnoch glided into his perch like a wraith
ot Wagner. A long, thin streak of hair
waved on Ins large, white forehead, the lights
went down, the stalls cuddled into their
furs, and the Great Event began.
The orchestra is a superb combination of
musical perfection, though Knoch lacks the
personal magnetism of Angelini. Tenor John
Coates lias a face that recalls the pictures
ot Kobbie Burns on a Highland-gathering
mug, with a dash of the Yorkshire terrier
in the short, keen nose. His list, seems to
be growing outside his tailor’s waist-measure-
ment. As Hoffmann in the preliminary wine-
cellar, he threatened to burst his nether
gaimerits, so skin-tight were they, when he
heaved in song. Rosina Beynon, as Hoff-
mann s friend Nicklaus, was clad in a pair
ot DiacK satin, knee breeches, a nondescript
waistcoat, and a frill that lurched over the
edge of the blase pink coat. This coat was
as much too large for her as John’s breeches
were too tight for him; perhaps that’s whv
.Nicklaus giggled so often into his lace cuff's.
Bosnia is a capable singer, and added con-
siderably to this bibulous prologue.
Lalla Miranda had to sing to the click
rn ; all ®? ed doll mechanism, as Olympia, in
lale No. 1 of the Hoffmann love affairs.
Ihis wound her up for the Doll’s Song, with
the same uproar that surged from Hart’s
flying machine when it soared over the flats
at Ascot. She was also well oiled, like a
sewing machine, at both ends. When the
gentleman help had tipped the tiny funnel
into Lalla s pink nostrils, he carefully re-
peated the same performance on her 'shoe-
lea mer. . She is a handsome woman, with a
smile*’ bird ' like twitter * and a bewildering
The wicked Giulietta (Edna Thornton),
who snares the heart of Hoffmann in a Vene-
tian palace, wore abbreviated gold spangles
round a daring expanse of bare bosom. She
nearly sang herself out of a wisp of fisher-
net that held her frail bodice together, and
the front stalls sat firm and waited for the
tragedy that didn’t come off. It stayed on
and went with Giulietta’s reddish coiffure
to perdition—or some equally well-known
address—in a gondola.
One of the few foreign names in the Quin-
fan co. is owned by Enrichetta O’Nelli, but
I m told it s rather like O’Neill when it sits
down in a morning wrapper. She looked like
an early Victorian bud in the third Hoffmann
episode, and was a sweet and plaintive An-
- O , nA a ’ dying slowly of love and consumption,
while, the burly John made raging love to
her rippling brown wig.
Why do so many women reserve their fier-
cest headgear for the opera? The osprey
stood up in the air, with maddening effect for
those behind it, on the first night of Hoff-
Philanderings. Six or seven inches
of stiff white plume shot up behind the ear
of one d.c lady, and the face of the man
who was trying to dodge it was an episode
m suppressed language. Miss Von Arn-
. Im s elegant head-tuft was a polite conces-
sion to the feelings of those who sat behind
her, for it sparkled like a tuft of spun glass
at quite a modest altitude. The habitual
first-nighters maintained their usual attitude
of owning- the premises, and the acreage of
black swallow-tail that escaped for its even-
mg refresher was up to its usual standard.
Rritfcm i a T S Br r vce ’ wife of the wandering
A'fh Ambassador, prefers to bask in the
sunshine of her husband’s literary light
Someone asked her whether she also wrote
to which she replied: “One literary member
in a family is quite enough.” Probably Mrs
Jane Carlyle often had a similar notion of
domestic harmony, though she persistently
followed the inky way. Mrs. Bryce is a
sister of the brand-new peer, Lord Ashton
and an aunt of the Dorothy Ashton who
married Captain Charles Orr R A for
seven years in . charge of Fuzz Wuz in
Northern Nigeria. Orr, whose book, “The
Making of Northern Nigeria,” has been well
reviewed, is a brother, by the wav of the
always-busy little Mrs. Todd, of this town
who edits the Woman’s Budget, when she
sisss? socks ’ or doin * half a d -n G
Star-gazer Mary Proctor, a confirmed stu-
dent of Mars, Jupiter and other stately
luminaries, follows her father’s predilectSmf
Proctor, senior cut his first sta?s soon after
leaving Cambridge, and deserted his earlv
love the Bar for planets and literature A
style oTdlshin^nn 1° a T re
style or dishin„ up the heavenly bodies in
magazine articles. Later, he toured this coum
try with considerable success as a lecturer
Daughter Mary, who intends to tell U 8 all
about the roads-and-bridges department b
Sv\ dt i !u to o' ld heat of a bungalow in
°f th e Sun, is a slender little vital
&paik herself. She ls rather like a well-
known picture of the late Mary Kingsley
sir£ h f a l- f muc^, the ? ame «rip on the sunny
side of life. She grips with a hand that fits
a five glove and has a feminine interest in
nice hats. Mary bubbles over with humor,
vnn! t 0 lea d us gently to the starry
ault with a good selection of lantern slides,
and some carefully-assorted jokes. I fancy
she knows more about the Milky Way than
she chooses to divulge to careless earth-worms.
MiltV Wo t 0 try , and meet you in the
Milky way,, says she. “You’ve no idea
how warm it is up there, and there’d be
nothing left of either of us.”
„ that translucent stream of hea-
venly light the real address of the Wicked
One who stokes the Eternal Fires with
sinners of all sizes? Will some enterprising
pressman please drag this secret from Mary
this ? ar " SeaiC^ei '’ bef ° re She leaves ’
The street bazaar scene in “Kismet ” with
abou°f tS in an o °i ther P r C f eSS herbs mattered
about in careless splendor, is calculated tn
housewlf r JV D , the br f aSt af
housewife in days when a mere potato is
quite an expensive ornament in Sydney. But
fall? about X? w i alth l of vegetable matter
rails iibout the coffee-colored legs of the in-
habitants, or flaunts its turnip-tops over the
panniers of two meek donkeys,, as a thing
of no account. Lily Braytonrites to hf
surface as Marsinah, daughter of Haji the
beggar, in a film of asli-of-roses, or sorne-
noM? J S °i l , id iu dra Pcry. Bessie Major,
noble _ woman, heaps a ton of contempt on
feminine vanity, and waddles about m near
relations of the Amelia Bloomer garments
of a size and a cut unknown, I imagTn“ out
of the Knoblauch version of an Arabian
day s entertainment. Bessie gets rolls of fat
byenTLrtTf olt
uyena part ot JNarjis, aged whipper-in and
the G f dv’ ads f' ielp t 0 Marsin ah. Oscar Hajj
the Lily s stage parent, has brought back to
9? Ministers wanted to
Satlhe G te g tLe State GoveSeM so
ivA »3r e -Denmans needn’t turn out of
the Macquane-street castle and camp under
a fi ?‘ tre c in the park, they chose Foreign
dS 1 Affair«“rn f ° r the j r ambassador. Foi-
Tv rS> of the Commonwealth
friwds that r tle°?f'“' ‘estate, are such old
p at,SIV“ o if'eiS h e?
wonldt?! keep.' b'ril'lSt iS
lMeVwkhS t ecause Foreign A& left
later without a new lease in his pocket
hopeful )O A b parties reported that the? were
hopeful. As a commonplace fact, concernm"-
We^kg 6 a‘TtS i6^‘“S“
li f ° r Lands Beeb -V and his brisk
eveMni n Balfn ? musical Party the other
ei enmg in I ahng s concert room. Here bv
day ‘, sto J ed away behind piano legs, amidst
the fiendish “tut, tut, tut” of the perndiml
tuner, surrounded by the wails caterwaufs
which r S ln tL chor< ! s - from
wmcn lead the aspiring pupil’s “sol fa” m
oj be rn bar ii of a high C, does H N
Southweil wade through stacks of concert
menus and dodge the reproaches of parents
who own musical prodigies. parents
Bee A ,y e . ve ning was intended to warm
P the enthusiasm of those present on the
acute question of little Lottie D?arn and
of e the“unds C to ?? W t!l ich is t 0 Produce’some
ox tne tunds to take the precocious pianist tr>
Lottie is about 16—delightful *1
She ffe ha7h h chacolates and castle S S in Spam’
SlVlhc 6 ?, S Leil,sic ** a year,
S or &£& fife
Sir* 1 £
gt&h&Tgpi
vety l ' e S ott;f Ur F Caae ? »*» l «™l.
•7« .f e b s„» ofisfs bean,y
«|S; ra zlz
last week nd S oss< 1 m in Sydney Town Hall
,f f -k' Veek ' ’ or her concert, the platform
of this emporium of winter “
gently-scrubbed expression. Two strips of
white paper were laid down to ca t il
soles of Eva’s smart shoe-leather and pro
5L th l elegant tail of her satin gown- a "
white shimmer under a tunic that appeared
be budt of mist and roses. The contralto
good looks COP S't tinted l0 n Cks was in radiant
feooa looks. Eight years haven’t touched her
hSg° n ? t Ch oH’ tl T Sh theyVe nibbledsome-
uiing out of her deep notes. Her voice is
Stni°ii y ll I f hter ’ but different in quality.
k .t ii.» the change hasn’t affected her ballad
sHfe mg a ; nd Sl grafi back a “«re polkshed
tyie, and grafts it on to the original FVn
sweet" a mfT Wit f h a song of the moment. Her
Wa iorf ” d tu P eful lay in the “Meeting of the
W a ters as in every other ballad, was right
on the note every time. Bryce Carter was
at the cello, and Sid McDonald steered his
pleasing top-notes through the twirls of “My
Queen,” and other love-ditties. J
Rosina Buckmann is warbling a hurried
;Sm(M frS«2? Sa * urday eVSg
a • Hal i- She splashed through
her natiim Ma Dg: i af n er a bumpy trip from
to herself Ma oriland, and wondered softly
to heiself, on a cold Austrian chair, what
fhe was going to do in London. Rosina
has ahvays been inclined to view the Battle
tbe \oice with a tremble in her armor
and her courage is trickling into her boots
i^l e ,?p SPeCt f °n th i e Great Scramble for a
perch at Covent Garden. John McCormack’s
optimistic cable, “Come to London;’’ etc., is
the first cause of the lady’s hasty flight to
the grey North Land. In spite of her
success in the _ J.C.W. operatic aviary last
year, the doubting Thomasina is still shying
at tier chances. She goes, nevertheless, in
tlle .ytway. Her idea was to chase the ship
to Melbourne by express; but at the present
moment it doesn’t look as if the vessel will
need chasing by an express. It dropped a
propeller blade coming down from Brisbane,
and is now awaiting repairs in Sydnev
harbor.
Wellington (M.L.) handed Rosina Buck-
mann IIOU as _ a concert souvenir. Other
hamlets joined in a volley of farewells, and
her native New Plymouth (where careless
tourists can easily walk into a stormy sea
instead of on to the elusive gangway of a
little steamer on a dark night) turned its
attention off its petroleum wells for five
mmutes. While the wintry sea churned
itself into stacks of foam, and the bobbing
decks heaved against the night, the local
send-off cheered the girl’s first plunge for
foreign parts.
Margaret Dale-Owen will make her first
public appearance here in “Get-Rich-Quick-
v\ allingford.” She has a notable great-
grandfather perched high in her family tree,
one Robert Owen, who was a kind of freak
in his day. In New Lanark (Scotland) he
ran an odd. unicorn team, being philan-
thropist, _ socialist and owner of extensive
cotton mills. He was about 50 years before
his time, for he believed in education for the
laboring man, the man being at the moment
too busy grasping at his pittance to think
much about it for himself.
, °f en , educated the children of his mill
hands, for whom he built model cottages,
l-le was a partner of Arkwright, inventor of
the cotton loom; but his Socialism was
burning holes in both his pockets, and he
got rid of Ins fortune in the U.S. in about two
years. He believed that all men wanted to
work, so he started a community in Indiana,
where he rashly bought the town of New
Harmony. Old Discord —the same old Dis-
cord who has wrecked every community of
the kind —soon lashed his tail. The drones
and the discontents rose to the surface, and
poor Owen’s rosy visions of a hive of work-
ing bees collapsed in the ruin of his fortune.
He got back to Wales, his native land, where
the consonants wept in speechless grief over
his tomb. The National Portrait Gallery
(London) preserves his appearance in oils.
His son, Robert Dale-Owen, was bitten with
some of his parent’s desire to better the uni-
verse. He was a writer and a friend of Abe
Lincoln, and took a heated interest in the
liberation of the colored man and brother.
The lady who used to be Lili Sharp, and
who fluttered out of the Bendigo aviary
about the same time as Amy Castles, is back
in Australia. At the moment she is hiding
somewhere in Sydney.
Ten years ago Lili married and went to
Europe with her husband, whose name be-
came Rafalewski, though, if I don’t forget
it was King before its owner let his hair
grow long. After six years in England the
two decided to see the world cheaply; so
Dili (to match the Rafalewski) set out with
her voice, while Rafalewski bought a ferry
ticket for his violin, and they have been buy-
mu’ ( err y, and railway tickets ever since.
Ihey ve played (and paid) their way from
Lisbon (where the ex-king said it gave him
great pleasure, etc.) to Cashmir, and from
Cashmir to Pekin, and from Pekin to the
1 hilippines. Only six weeks ago Zambo-
anga, where Uncle Sam is trying to “make
good, _ was bidden to listen to “Rafalewski
soio pianist and violinist to H.M. the King
of Greece, H.I.M. the Sultan of Turkey, and
Uon Carlos,, the late Iving of Portugal”—
with wife Lili, of course. From there they
dropped down on to Australia, with just
about as many labels on their carpet-bags as
any couple could reasonably hope to collect
m a lifetime.
f> ow hat is getting its annual
carnival kick from ski-fliers. July 19 will
be the date of the second spree this season.
Rhe new ballroom in the hostel is going: to
warm any cold toes left over from the ski-
or two' th A a -nn in Tv nd fancy h op-and-jump
or two. A.D.C. Dumaresq, of Governor
Chelmsford’s household troops, has cut out
his chamois leap across Australian snows
tins year and substituted a sniff of the warm
breath of tropic islands. He has cruised off
with the Admirable King-Hall to the Pacific
islets, where brown ladies, twine the scarlet
hibiscus into their cocoanut-oiled pates. But
others remain.
41 P r \ Schlink, superinsplintant of Prince
Alfred Hospital, and a mighty man on skis,
has gone aloft to Kosciusko. Dr. and Mrs
Menzies (Drummoyne). the Neutral Bav
Manns, and Milner and Montague Stephen
are also going to risk frost-smitten sneezes
%<““ » f «■?, Colonial Sugar Knox Si,
exclusive feet into snow
boots. A junior naval twig or two has
saved up the cash necessary for this expen-
sive jaunt, and will show the men of Monaro
how they ought to ski—eh, what? Miss
Bmme (Woollahra Point) is another entlm-
siast and the Neville Dangars are also talk-
ing ot tobogganing.
iiP-PP rumors that the police were removing
their bull s-eye lanterns from burgled subur-
bia, to turn them on to bridge (ladies’ club
and drawing-room variety), set a North Syd-
ney hostess in a cold tremor the other after-
noon. Just as the bridgers were getting
warmed up to the game, the lady ff the
, was summoned to the ’phone “Some-
thmg local was speaking at the othor umi
‘ls that Mrs. «uch-and-Such? Have vou a
bridge party? Can’t hear?-no-S Ridge
have got a b-r-i-d-g-e-yfs
thought I d let you know that four police-
men have asked the way to your house dav
of your mouse?—l said, ‘Wav to your
lt°n U ' S r~f ey ?° ing t 0 raid”- Tab-
leau. Cards slid into the kitchen sink or
any other old place. One bridge dame
searched for the trembling remains of her
S9prano, and turned it on to the grand
piano. But the majesty of the law failed to
put four pair of white cotton gloves on the
party, because a practical joker had basely
used the occasionally disengaged ’phone
Muswellbrook can console itself for losing
the Dudley polo mug by the calm reflection
that anything as old as polo isn’t easily
grafted on to a new country. The game or
rite, or whatever it is, celebrated its 2000th
birthday quite recently, I hear, and is getting
so ancient that it s almost a dead language
in its birthplace—some turbaned backblock
in Persia.
Miss Whitaker, of the Girls’ Friendly
Society, is still tearing her finer feelings oil
the subject of the Australian girl. This good
delegate from the Land
of Nod and Bull to the local G.F.S.
is using up her tearful sympathy in
the wrong place. “My heart bled ”
says this disturbed visitor, “to see
those girls walking up and down the Penrith
station. This crime is quite common in
Australian country towns, where youth
which isn t always as demure as its grand-
parents, merely kills a dull half-hour by a
sm | t . of steam-engine and the chance of seeing
a friend s head protrude from a passenger
train. If Miss Whitaker’s heart would bleed
on the Thames Embankment at 10 o’clock
on a winter night, the leakage wouldn’t be
such an obvious waste of red corpuscles.
Miss Florence Docker, a daughter of Mr.
A. it. Docker, was married in England a
few weeks ago to a Mr. Aubrey C. Malim, of
VVelby Gardens, Grantham. The bridegroom
is earmarked as the only son of the Town
Clerk of Grantham, but I don’t think it’s a
billet that s entailed, even in the land of
hereditary mortgages and perpetual peers.
A. lx. Docker, the bride’s parent, was for
S a .? y aa offici al in the Sydney Money
Order Office, for which his grateful country
pays him a pension. The second Mrs. Docker
is, I think, a sister of the Rev. Carr Smith
who _ was . once the idol of unappropriated
blessings in St. James’s parish.
If every woman studied every new cookery
book and tried the results on every defence-
less man, every hospital ambulance waggon
would work overtime. Whitcombe and
Ltd - have recently produced the
100th thousand issue of Australian “Every-
day Cookery.” The volume will drive
gourmets into a seventh Paradise of devilled
chicken and trimmed brains, if the Austra-
lian woman uses it as her daily text-book.
Moreover, it is well illustrated.
Nicholson and Co. send along a graceful
Nocturne in E Flat, by that clever young-
ster, Rex de Cairos-Rego. Shrimpton and
feons (London) are the publishers of this
melodious effort, which is simple enough to
lure the schoolgirl into its toils.
nJ? O °i U l h f fri r ai l S ? cie , t y latel y got off the
usual beat. Instead of heaving itself on to
the vast shoulders of tenor Coates of the
Dumlan opera co., and bearing him down
with gold, pencil-cases and other glittersome
lugg a ge, it laid in wait for Mrs. Coates,
whose only limelight is the domestic gas-
pipe. Amongst other marks of its esteem if
handed the lady a 300-candle-power necklet
and a pendant of Cape pearls and rubies.
Yours at the sodden end of the deluge,
VANDORIAN.
“Henry Horsecollar” discourses:—
British Chancellor of the Exchequer Lloyd Cfeorge
has stated in a New York paper that “there are
2,000,000 idle rich in Great Britain.” It is probably
true enough, and it might be added that a great
many of these rich are very poor, and the cause of
a vast deal of poverty in others. The gilded pauper
isnt an imaginary institution. He has, perhaps,
£lO,OOO a year, and a heap of moulds traditions
(including the tradition that work is impossible) to
maintain, and sundry ancestral mansions to keep up.
He isn t bound to keep up the sundry ancestral man-
sions, but he does it from habit, and for his blighted
dignity’s sake. There is too much tradition and
chgmty and old mansion for the £lO,OOO a year, and
u Wlt ? ali his wealth > is chronically
the „i hG horde un P r °ductive flunkeys who dust
hiwn.f l mai )®ons and trim the superfluous
lawns are poorly paid, because the salary won’t run
i° th hflrrl A , so ’ f e s . ha bby and hard up. The tenants
are hard u : i also, for it is a great struggle to drag
di°nHv of fl them to maintain the superfluous
traditions, flunkeys and ancestral halls of
head Of I ™ru Ve * lshed ] oafer or lingerer at the
edfv h/rrf tenants employees are wretch-
, ■ „ lard J Jp . an ? because they also liave to
shoulder their share of the traditions and dignity
and mouldy, moth-eaten marble halls. Thus
number of people toil hard at making each other
poor and miserable. Even the incubus at the top
h l t hn t r ,f P i r aml 'i often toi,s hard - He does as much
f A „° r at keeping up appearances as many another man
does at a productive job.
Red Cross” : The local Miners’ Union has
bumped something harder than coal at the
Kurri Karri (N.S.W.) hospital, an institu-
tion which is run practically for the benefit
of the miners and their families. The medi-
cal staff, all members of the British Medical
Association, recently submitted a log of
charges proposed to be made, and the union,
with the promptitude of the hardshell em-
ployer, turned it down. The B.M.A. men
thereupon resigned, and the union put
11 ‘blacklegs” (as the miners or C. G. Wade
would call them in different circumstances)
in their places. But the B.M.A. was unex-
pectedly aided by a sympathy strike. The
whole nursing staff, all being members of
the A. L.N.A., also resigned. And this clean-
bowled the wage-reducers, because the Gov-
ernment rules provide that only A.T.N.A.
nurses can be employed in Government-subsi-
dised hospitals. At time of writing, the un-
tortunate patients were not unduly improving
in health, and the only solution seemed to be
to ask them to die as quickly as possible.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL f||Slgf JEWELLERS.
BY APPOINTMENT
THE FOREMOST HOUSE IN THE COMMONWEALTH
FOR
DESIGN
QUALITY
VALUE
Gentleman’s Leather Dressing’ Case, fitted with Finest Quality
Cutlery and Ebony Brushes. 12 inches long,
£4/10/-
OODS SENT ON APPROVAL.
INSPECTION INVITED.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON OFFICE: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS
TECHNICAL BOOKS.
COME AND SEE THEM, IF POSSIBLE. OR WRITE OS.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL C?.L T -°.
476 CEORGE 5T, SYDNEY.
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKET5)
lf you can afford a Piano at all, you can afford the
STECK PIANOLA PIANO
T
HERE are two misconceptions sometimes held regarding the Steck Pianola
Piano:
One is that it is much more expensive than other instruments of
its kind ;
The other, that its recognised superiority is confined to features
that appeal to critical musicians only.
As a matter of fact, a genuine Steck Pianola Piano can be purchased for
as little as 110 guineas.
With the moderate interest charged on deferred payments, and three years in
which to pay for it, a Steck Pianola Piano is brought within the reach of almost
everyone.
The Steck Pianola Piano’s superiority is of a twofold character, viz:
Better Construction and Better methods of control.
IT is true that the finer results achieved by the Steck Pianola Piano appeal
most strongly to the critical.
It should be remembered, however, that the purchaser of any so-called Player-
Piano is bound to become a “critic” in a short time. And that it is better to
learn the superiority of the Steck Pianola Piano, by owning a Steck Pianola
Piano, than after having bought some other instrument.
Steck Pianola Pianos have been manufactured in greater quantities, and
have been much longer on the market than any other instruments of the kind.
Anyone who purchases such a Piano without exhaustively investigating the
Steck Pianola Piano, does himself an injustice of the gravest kind.
Wouldn’t it be worth your while to investigate this instrument, which has given to so many others a
libera! education in music and a thorough enjoyment of the art? Let us send you a Catalogue of the
STECK PIANOLA PIANO. We will send it free if you will write and ask for Catalogue No. R.
KM fMI KIN^
PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
88 Rundie Street, ADELAIDE ;
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
and 444-446 Queen Street, BRISBANE; London, Berlin, New York, etc.
t ,,olNTM f<v>
MJ V* rH» CCRMAN «M»C4UI*


FARMER'S BONUS SALE
Closes Saturday, 20tR Jtily.
Farmer's HI Tailoring.
®5l m Hand Finished Suits
Less lO Per Cent. = 85/0 Net Cash
During the Sale.
Made from
Navy Blue Serge
Blarney
Donegal
and
Scotch
Suitings
in all the newest designs and
colorings.
A Unique Chance
to
Secure a High-grade Suit
at a
Substantial Saving.
Ail orders bearing Satur-
day’s postmark and
accompanied by remit-
tance will be executed
Less the Bonus of 10
Ber Cent.
Farmer's
High Quality-
Standard
throughout.
Expert Cutters only employed.
Each Suit cut, fitted, trimmed
and made on our own premises.
Pit Guaranteed.
FARMER’S S YD N E Y.
INTERNATIONAL PATENTS AND Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide,
r y years practice. Correspondence invited.
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE’S only one BEST Bioaranh
* it to be the “SILENT BMP®” S Tnd for cZ*
Sydney. J<?rd£m ’ S ’ Ltd “ 393 SteSi
HICKS ATKINSON & SONS PTY. Ltd.
The Collins Street House, Melbourne.
MRS. TRENTHAM will show, at the Hotel
Metropole, on Monday, the 22nd instant and
ensuing’ days of the week, the newest creations of
fprmg and Summer Milinery,
Model Costumes,
“Tailor Mades”
°^ e J’ desirable dress accessories.
MDLLE. MARIE, Costume Artiste, recently
H'om the Dress Salons of Paquin, Paris and
Kreutzer, Hanover Square, will be at the’show-
room to receive commissions for Race Gowns
Evening and Day Frocks. wns >
HICKS ATKINSON & SONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR.
By placing: very largre contracts, and thereby
securing: special concessions in discounts, we are
enabled to offer these lines of STERLING QUALITY
and EXCEPTIONAL VALUE.
LADIES*
combinations.
MEDIUM WEIGHT—NATURAL ALL-WOOL.
Ho. 84.
S. Women’s..
Women’s
O.S. Women’s
Extra O.S. Women’s
Short Sleeves. Long Sleeves.
10/- 10/6
10/6 n/6
11/6 12/6
12/6 13/6
Ribbed Knees.
VESTS
MEDIUM WEIGHT—NATURAL ALL-WOOL,
o ' , Short Sleeves. Long Sleeves.
S Women’s 5/6 ° 6/-
Women’s .. .. «/_ J, R
O.S. Women’s .. .. 6 / 6 1%
Extra O.S. Women’s .. 7/6 g/0
CHILDREN’S COMBINATIONS.
No. 84. MEDIUM WEIGHT-NATURAL ALL-WOOL.
Sizes .. .. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Short Sleeves .. 4/6 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6
Long Sleeves .. 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6 8/-
MEN’S
PURE NATURAL WOOL UNDERSHIRTS.
No. 336. Long and Short Sleeves.
Quality. Chest.. 34 36 38 40 42 44 inch
1 uil-fashioned
338 ' Vei " ht '' 6 / 6 0/11 7/6 7/11 8/6 8/11
Heavy-weight,
FuH-fashioned 7/6 7/11 8/6 8/11 9/6 10/-
Double-breasted .. 8/6 8/11 9/6 10/- 10/6
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON SHIRTS.
Long and Short Sleeves.
No. 326. Chest.. 34 36 38 40 42 inch
Heavy Warm Make,
Very Special .. 4/. 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/ .
PURE NATURAL WOOL PANTS.
No. 336. Waist.. 34 36 38 40 42 44 inch
Medium weight,
Full-fashioned .. 6/11 7/6 7/11 8/6 S/ll 9/6
PURE WOOL PANTS.
No. 338. Waist.. 34 36 38 40 42 44 inch
Heavy-weight,
Full-fashioned .. 7/11 8/6 8/11 9/6 10/- 10/6
Short Legs .. .. 8/11 9/6 10/- 10/6
NATURAL WOOL AND COTTON PANTS.
No. 326. Waist.. 34 36 38 40 42 inch
Heavy, Warm Make,
Special .. .. 4/6 4/9 5/. 5/3 5/6
We Pay Postage on these throughout
the Commonwealth.
BALL & WELCH PTY., LTD.,
y MELBOURNE. J
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
, . _ Melbourne, July 15, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Ministers scattered cards asking the re-
cipients to come to the upper lobbies of
tiie House on Thursday afternoon, and
snake hands with Ambassador Bryce
and his wife. Deep-sunken black eyes,
which look keenly out from under
white eyebrows, are the most notice-
able feature of the little great man. His
wite is a plump, robust Englishwoman, who
looks numerous years younger than her
white-bearded husband. She was snugly
tailored in amethyst-colored cloth, and wore
a neat little amethyst hat, set firmly on a
thick roll of pale hair coiled tightly. Gov-
ernor Fuller looked animated, and his lady
took a vigorous hand in the hospitable pro-
ceedings. The Ministers got two hours off
tor the reception. Bigjohn Forrest rolled
ponderously alongside his dame’s wildlv-
waving blue feathers. Mrs. Fisher, beam-
ing under a big black velvet hat, gracefully
helped her silver-haired Andrew to welcome
the guests.
eQ Fast Fri , day ’ Passers-by in Spring-street
P«Ti; a 3 r f 1 w° PUlent motors at rest b cf<>re
Parliament House steps, and Governor Ful-
ler limping up the toilsome ascent with the
VlSlt , in ? ? ryce ' When they had almost
reached the top, a coupg drove up furiously
and emptied out a little man. His hat was
crushed down on the back of his head, and
his gloves and cane were clutched in his left
hand, as he bounded up the stone steps. It was
G.-G. Denman, a fraction late for the Par-
liamentary luncheon. The onlookers cheered
under their breath as he bounded lightly on
iust th nt t tß moSt sles5 les and caught the others
a l the Ponderous door of the House.
™«hir, Go / ernor bu . siness sometimes means
rushing for your vittles.
nwm h , e !f rand Nati °nal Steeplechase, on Sat-
urday, drew so big a crowd that select social
parties were. swamped in the flood tide of
troubfe r d to aCmg humani . ty - People had not
£°^ led to arrange meeting places, as they do
durin„ the crowded November week • so tea
parties were scattered and cups went be?
wl S a W)1 i e t j e pe oP le they were intended for
Although ib dr M m °-i t m d and disconsolate.
Although the Manifolds and the Millers are
n^ er ruhng powers in the jumpfng
races the squattocracy comes along in drove!
for the winter meeting. On Saturday the
squatteresses took possession of the paddock
and birdcage, and closely inspected their
favorite animals. As a class, they seem to
be unanimous about tailor-mades, smart
shoes, neat hats and nice furs.
Fufle! le wh« W i nd f aS blowing, and Governor
i ’ has been ordered to Queensland
by his doctor, sat in the depths of an astra-
chan overcoat. His lady decora?ed Shfpm
wJuu a P eacb ' colore d coat, which was not so
w Idly discordant with the coverings of buff
and pale blue. Ambassador Bryce stood on
crnxira tep ?ni and thoughtfully surveyed the
crowd. The women of the party having
made a comprehensive tour of th e y birdcage S
Ml left early. A notable frocky ladv com-
mitted the bleak, cold and dangerous error
hL\ earmg right blue and cerise, with l
blue bare neck; but the dressing, as a general
thing, combined wisdom with style One
womans white cloth dress was so thick that
the edges were simply cut, not sewn. (Some-
va?d i r , ° ar f l V‘ lt eost guineas a
y a id, my dear! ) Another woman paraded
a different fur coat on each of the three
2 ays ; aDd sas5 as severely censured in private
Of 2nm o n XtraVaga P Ce by aD en OrmOUS jury
The °nly one Coat a Pmce
fi,T- e K ga ? l^ng^ema i es were So intent on the
auent National and the conse-
of their vari ous half-crowns that
wqJ ar< aJ troub) led to shriek when there
was a sudden clatter and an ugly tangle of
jockeys and horses in front of the stand.
ju ga and medico A. L. Kenny
hastened to St. Patrick’s Cathedral on
Tues d ay morning and were bonded in matri-
mony by Archbishop Carr just as Melbourne
was rising from its breakfast tables. This
Ul V tl a l r ly ,h 0 . ur S 8 a - m -) is the penalty ex-
fs Ct unn f hle b r m f h J: tc I hed up by his Grace, who
The Sit 2 ,1 longer this cold weather,
ihe dark-eyed bride, in ivory cloth tran-
Pings, managed to thaw into a smile above
her grey squirrel wrappings. Rose Kyle a
dignified 8.A., acted as maid to her old
friend, and Olga’s brothers, Dr. V. J. E. and
part Tip J - b °‘ b >m3S
parts in the performance. The Kenny pair
are honeymooning in Sydney. 1
There is much woe in select circles over
Mmie n Ca S rl2 f fr R Cky ’- Srey-haired spinster
iviiiiie Carter, who is struggling bravelv
a g ainst an attack of neuritis The rather
sudden death of Millie’s aunt, Mrs. George
Young, lessened the invalid’s chance of
speedy recovery. A
Chomley ’ wh <> is at present
bad a narrow escape from death
the other day. Whilst stepping into a rail-
w2 CaiT !f g !:i She sll PP ed between the foot-
board and the platform. Rescuing hands
saSv ed hefo!e d /b mty ] - ttle widow ba ck to
satety before the engine started; but she
still dreams of that fall, and is keeping off
railway stations until the memory fade!
h^ii dni f Un(i Fisb^ s somewhat naughty little
book of verses, “The Kiss of Dolly d!/,’’ is
on the bookstalls, and brisk is the sale
thereof. All sorts of opinions are passed
“ p n °? Edmund s philosophy by the Sex he so
cynically sings about, but even the most cen-
sorious matrons remark that the book’s popu-
larity is not surprising.” They lay a sniffy
accent on the "not.” As for bald-headed
sinners and Berties of tenderer years, their
sentiments are condensed into one word—
iw!r P j iag ' miP ole ’ °f tbe Book Arcade, is
r.u-i A h r Paper-covered edition, with
i-li- May S t * at boy on tb e wrappei-, costs a
smiling only.
Cisneros, in black velvet and buckled
shoes, made a fascinating fireside companion
over tea the other day. She had the sleek,
languorous grace of a leopard, as she lounged
ar mchair. A turquoise ring edged
with pearls—the whole thing nearly as large
as a breakfast egg—claimed my sidelong at-
tention. Only a woman of her magnificent
proportions could wear such a gaud. “Con-
cert work is real hard,” she murmured. “In
®P e f a * e 55 so much beside your voice to
attract attention; but on the platform the
attention of your audience is concentrated
on your work.” The prevailing cold was
touched upon, and brought forth the rueful
remark, Houses are so cold in semi-tropical
countries. Why the coldest place I ever was
in was Italy! Only cold countries can really
look forward with pleasure to the winter—
they provide for it with all sorts of com-
roits. bhe is very interested in our bud-
ding women’s clubs. The Count husband
was discovered singing, but quickly descended
o tO P-? ot es to tea and talk. Cisneros is
due back in Chicago in October. She -jour-
neys by way of Honolulu and San Francisco.
Cisneros can boast the most picturesque
concert company this city has seen for many
a night. Melbourne confirmed the Sydney
report that Hufault is a tenor in a thousand,
as well as a beautiful person with silver-grey
hair and a suave New York manner. The
star s concert debut dress was flesh-color, and
not nearly as tall as its wearer. From high-
tide mark, the gown flung up a despairing
arm of black tulle which looped over one
superb shoulder. That was the costume’s
only visible means of support. The singer’s
red hair was bound in a gold fillet, and, when
she flung off the Valkyrie’s soul-mustering
whoop in response to an encore, she looked
the real Wagnerian article. ,
. W e cl nes clay matinee concert given by
the Quinlan orchestra at Her Majesty’s, be-
fore the flight to Sydney, had a novel fea-
ture. The orchestrians, who usually huddle
in a trench before the stage, trooped on to the
Place where the limelight falls, and Spread
themselves round for inspection. The most
expensive cut-glass chandelier hung above
their heads, and there was a piece of red
carpet for the conductor. The music was
superb and seemed to even grip Society
which sat quite still while the showerbaths
ot sound poured down on its ostrich plume.
We £ e threatened and cajoled at
different times by three conductors. Ernest
vnoch (familiarly “Enoch”) shook his bushy
lair head and waved his baton over Mozart
a ”d Tullio Voghera—an Italian
with rolling black eyes and an upstanding
mop of hair, who writhes and sways as if
a . ls ! 0 n 1 rn W u re - 1 tu ££ing at its moorings—
directed Tschaikowsky’s Pathetic Symphony
and a honey-sweet bit of Debussy. The third
conductor was Hubert Bath, a prim and pol-
y?utb Wlth carefully-parted hair and a
methodical way of beating time. His job
was Liszts Hungarian Rhapsody (No. 2).
, w hen the interval arrived, the Best People
trooped into the. Winter Garden, where, sink-
ing into armchairs, they allowed their intel-
lects to descend from the windy heights of
classical music to plain gossip and brimming
teacups. Some of the orchestra people who
have been making friendly headway in
loorak houses dashed upstairs and joined in
A .nL e M- S v,Ti ntS and talk - The magnificent
Agnes Ni.cholls sang twice. She was gowned
m paie pink and silver, and made impressive
an ? exits along the narrow way
Wli°hri ier n be f We - en the musicians and the
“°sf s ' Deafening applause and a barrow-
xsnT ot attle anf i violets were her portion.
Wh< m she came back to take her call, she
curried the wattle over one massive shoulder
as if it were an uprooted tree.
The “Quaker Girl” people had a string
w s< r nsatl °nal experiences coming back from
lhAWv! 13 " tke boat had a breakdown ;
then they got on board a train which could
° aly in spasms; and, finally, they
were forced by hunger to devour ordinary
refreshment sausages. They had hoped to
ra j W B at . ena l of sausages chase round
w £ ® nd Rational course at Flemington;
but their various accidents by flood and field
put that out of the question.
Mary Riddell, . the debutante soprano
Town Hnli Waggie Stirling, warbled in the
JLown Hall last week. Lady Fuller Miq<?
Phipps and Melba led the applause of a tony
S6t cntlc s; but the dreadful cold made
even the most hardy long for home and a
blazing grate of coals. A distracted Hein
hurried out and brought back an extra fur
fl U hiV°fnr her X ‘’i\T V u° Was alread y muffled in
a ; f n at ‘ Mel . ba was up to her shapely
ears in an expensive Polar outfit. Roma
Clarke shivered in a coat of cherry satin,
but suddenly made a break for her motor
and came back with the skin of a bear or
something. That started the habit, and pre-
sently there was a stream of women going
out in search of wraps. Meanwhile, Mary
showed round eyesfat the disturbed audience.
aS § sweet voice, but her skirt was too
tignt, and she slithered on awkwardly. For
the first song, she stood with her hands
“her. Evidently the pose did not meet
witu the approval of the authorities, for the
next entrance was made with a knotty little
J-BdU posy, which the young singer held reli-
giously before her. Flowers were fairly
shovelled on to the platform, and the recipi-
ent hurried them nervously away while her
listeners stamped twice and fled for hot
drinks and bottles.
Lemmone (now reconnoitring the city
with an eye to the Melba farewell concert,
due on August 3) was on the verge of giv-
ing an unrehearsed boxing turn at the final
opera gala night at Her Majesty’s. While
John was placidly enjoying “Faust,” a dress-
£ ir “ e .i i g ’ had overfed and over-
bottled, leant over and began to affection-
ately rumple the Lemmone locks. A hiss of
expostulation was without effect. Then
there was a sudden thud, and a scuffle, and
a sound as of guardian angels’ wings or
many people saying “Sh-h!” The next in-
stant, a soberer and a madder hog was
eclipsed by ushers. The house mostly
missed the excitement, being deeply engaged
in hearkening to Faust singing “O Hell,
thou dwelling fair and lovely!’
The Victorian artists opened their show
on hriday, and swarms of heavily-clothed
people stood about talking, and effectively
blocking the view of all but the most agile
cntics Governor Fuller, who keeps going
pluckdy, in spite of his sciatica, came along
in the rain to make a speech. Ambassador
-tsryce, who accompanied him, also put in a
t^ien tfie P air hurried away, and
lett the women of the party and a stray
aide to gaze and admire—or otherwise. The
l uller lady helped to obscure the view with
a/t “ut uat surmounted by a large rooster.
Mrs. Bryce held up the tail of a pale grey
dress and showed serviceable wet-weather
boots. Hans Heysen, garbed like some ar-
tistic sailor in a green sweater and brown
other-garments, brought his pretty wife, who
sported a pheasant feather in a rose-colored
cap.
The peeling walls of the old gallery had
been hastily and most artistically mended.
Mouse-colored paint effectively hid the rav-
ages of time and weather, and where the
plaster had been in the habit of falling from
tne ventilators some cunning hand had given
a suggestion of stained glass.
Longstaff’s clever portrait of Johnny Ford
Faterson hung alongside a group of the dead
artist s pictures.. The family refuses to sell
any of his paintings unless they are intended
tor a Public gallery. Which indicates an
admirable family feeling, anyway.
The evergreen Mather is giving a small
show of his pictures all this week at his
new studio, in the brand-new house he has
built on the cut-up Como land at Toorak.
By the way, Mather’s daughter Maggie, now
Mrs. Boitler, has returned from Westralia
with her lately-attached husband. Maggie
is an excellent pianist, and hubby composes
sweet harmonies, so they intend' to give a
.loint recital.
Hans Heysen, nowadays marching shoul-
der to shoulder with Streeton, has three
years work hanging on the walls of the
Athenseum for all to see. Every canvas has
its full share_of bright Australian atmo-
sphere. The Fuller lady paid an informal
visit on the morning of the first Plow day
There was no formal opening, but shoals of
VISI /i?I S drifted in - Heysen himself, in an
earth-brown suit and a well-bronzed face
welcomed old friends again, and introduced
people to his wife, who came to Melbourne
a week before the show to feast on Quinlan
grand opera. The artist has been working
in his native village of Hahndorf, which
m mewJ l e i e in , the S outh Australian
hills. The settlers there guard their gum-
sh®*te u r Purposes—and the painter is
grateful. Hahndorf is very Dutch The
a ° u ®® s a i e - Iwhite1 white stone > thatched and
smothered m the roses that grow so easily
m, those parts. . The windmills are not the
spindleshanked iron things that whirl above
agricultural shows, but the short, fat pic-
Thmmb 6 f^ ecies T see A s on drop-scenes,
lhough the men buy Australian clothes
their trouser-legs are about a yard wide and
made of blue material. Also! ev7ry’ man
Fritz wears a wide-brimmed hat made of
bright ye low straw, with a W white
b ouse. It is thereabouts, in the country and
w°K g Pe ° P u e h ?. knows so well, that Heysen
has been absorbing color schemes since his
last exhibition at the Guildhall. Buyer’s
red s Pot is working havoc in the collection
guineas lowest price discernible is 20
From my Adelaide correspondent: —
, Denmans are here, and, lo ! our feelinsrs are
mT ° h^^- riV Bmds, w\res elb E e
wr“^ H sr,£ “ra ht ’ si 2 ?, 0 »»
frock" of coroSS blue WtS S""« *
“Sioft v if °s
frock° f f her daUB '!* ters looked passing fair fichu
&°LS e n a g ra a^r d o e f ’ S e xr th Ji SPOrted a
pink roses. Even the ranks , n , et and
forbear to cheer Mrs? M^refs
of white ninon and black lace. The Wav anrl
Downer dames were in grey brocades t/ „
mostly an official affair, and Duncans, Glynns* Bon?‘
thons O Loughhns, Symons, etc., were there fr,
battalions. Of the mere citizens, Mrs. Harry Dut
ssed“bSiy '“ d Mn - j »““ w s i a,
attendants, coffee, programmes and sundries to sn™
3000 guests in the Exhibition. Several
to be pinched and spoken to sharply before thev
could credit that it really was a Mayor’s Ball Such
things are mostly about as artistic as a plug hat This
was the exception. The hall was turned into the eoun
terfeit presentment of a Japanese garden, which is a
different affair altogether, both as regards fragrance
and appearance, from a Chinese garden. The staae
showed Fujiyama m the background, with a mh u
ture waterfall and tea-house, and a mass S
n° W wM,- and chr .>'santhemums lurking at its base 1
C Williamson is said to have inspired the scheme!
At this function Mrs. Parsons wore a smart froolr nf
dull gold with touches of Oriental Sfmm „g-an
effective contrast to the soft white satin an f face
of L ady Bosanquet. Lady Denman’s Neapolitan
Wlth and diamonds about
the bodice and sleeves. The C.J.’s wife wore a auainf
frock of white satin, with panels of rose-scattered*
brocade. The Bosanquet daughters we? n It
and grey respectively, and Mrs. John DowneFs
S S g?ir n6t SaVe a S '° od C ° lor note t 0 t*e
;n addition to the above festivities there was a
M« em tota and an Adelaide Club tone?
for Lord Denman; and a dav at Marhlo rmi .
visits to the Children’s Hospital, Queen’s Home’ etc f
for Lady Denman. So you see the G.G and w's
th™se y parts? n h6r b6en starving nor idle while in
Talking of food, the Commonwealth Club enter
tamed General Gordon at lunch one day and when
the provender had vanished he gave all present
few tips as to the creation of the Perfect Cadet wf
and Lord Richard Nevill have escaped when th“v
could from officialdom, and dashed off to renew
acquaintance with various old friends.
R f,i h{ k“^ Se -P illin ?: weddin ff eventuated at Burn-
side on Thursday afternoon. The bride wore n
travelhng frock of mauve and some gorgeous furs,
/vitcr a reception at Craigbine, the
abode, the newly-weds left for Melbourne.
~ er wedding, for “relations only,” was that of
¥ r ; Sidney Ayers to Miss Edna Kidman, on Wednes-
ArT’i matters had been adjusted at the North
Adelaide Congregational Church, all hands made
of n to y Holl £ field ’ Soi,th Thrace, once the horn?
cL , Dutt ° n Greens, but recently bought by Mr
Sid Kidman for his daughter, Mrs. Reid. The^Ayers
a git mo^tL’ WeekS m SOl i tude ’, and then depart V
. SIX months world tour—beginning with that
fair land where they cremate their niggfrs in an urn
killed state, just as a Japanese ambassador did a few
Srfifis.*° the Queen 01 lh " S ‘*“ to which hf ™
Members of the Poetry Society met at Selma
on Monday They discussed Australian and
* P°etry, and Mrs. Josiah Symon fed- them
under the a strahi er Stimulants to hel P them bear up
~ The Athletic Woman has been here. In fact she
is here, to a certain extent, still. She has contested
N° sTwaie 11 v? strenuous games of hockey, in which
I” Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and our own State all
wTth S - Wales came out o a „ te top
four! P t 111 lts favor > against the local team’s
Mr. Leonard Hack, who died in Melbourne on
gsMpssgf
vice m inter-State tournaments. His wifp a
ll T1 “’ and ’ two
i” to S? e papers that a boarder at St PeteFs
and 1 bmmt ool ’! bad - een held down on a fire
gross buHvina- b w' show that it was not
ceremony All lafbeen'throSgh
His 3 f ruglfef and go? dropped' on’ or°coab
cffi ming he not ra a the fl r u Public « v
(Continued on page JfJ h )


u
SOT
MsMfror
W‘&
'O
r\v*
O/G
STAKOARO)
MALT
HI SKY
JoJuin ySoChru t %,
LU®
The Pure
Australian Whisky.
“ JOSHUA’S WHISKY is in every way
(. J reliable —pure —wholesome —healthful.
You may drink it with every assurance
and confidence in its sterling merit —its
strength —its quality —its age —and its sheer
puritv !
Not in so many words does your own
Australian Government commend this fine old
matured Whisky—but by the very placing of
the Government guarantee Label upon every
bottle, all this is meant. All the wealth in the
world could not get that label on any bottle
whose contents did not embrace all of the
foregoing properties.
After tasting Joshua’s Whisky you will
wonder how it is that imported whiskies can
flourish.
Note the “G. R.” Label.
None genuine without it.
“Joshua’s”—the Whisky
made in your own land.
JOSHUAS WHISKY
Age, Quality and Purity
Guaranteed by
Your Own Government.
Just Sit Down and Reason
the Thing Out.
YOU say your scalp and hair are in a most unhealthy condition. Your
hair, which was once admired by everybody, is now so miserably
thin and lustreless that people commiserate with you, and ask
what has become of your beautiful hair. Yes, you have used nearly every
advertised remedy to try and check its fall, and to preserve its color, but
they only make it worse.
A LADY writes:—“A few months ago I did what I ought to have
done when my hair first showed signs of deteriorating. Instead of
wasting my time and money on a lot of Quack Nostrums, I consulted
you, whom I had heard of for years as being a Hair Specialist of long
standing in this country. I was afraid your charge would be beyond my
means to pay. It was sheer necessity at last which compelled me to visit
you. • When I asked your charge, I was agreeably surprised to find I had
nothing to pay beyond the price charged for your remedies. These
were not more expensive than the Quack Nostrums, and there was this
difference, whereas I spent Six Pounds on those Nostrums, and got abso-
lutely no beneficial results (indeed, my hair was getting less the longer I
used them), one course of your treatment removed the scurf and irritation
from my scalp, and started a new growth of hair. After six months’
treatment, I am glad to say the effect is so marked that my friends ask me
what lam doing to my hair. It is getting nice and thick, and looks in a
healthy condition. I think your Shampuna a lovely thing. I would not
like to be without it now. I have persuaded a dozen of my friends to use
it, and they ail speak most highly of it.”
FATHEK RYAN writes:—“Dear Mr. Holland, —I am writing to
you for another supply of your excellent hair-wash. I cannot speak too
highly of your hair restorer. It is the only genuine stuff on the market.
As I have tried nearly all others, I think I am competent to pass judg-
ment. Please send to the enclosed address one bottle of Parasene Special,
one box of Exemo, and three packets of Shampuna. The latter is a
splendid wash. I shall never fail to recommend your treatment as it
justly deserves.”
Mr. KELLY writes: —“I want you to send me four months’ treat-
ment of Parasene and Cosmo. I want these for a friend, who noticed
how quickly my hair grew under your treatment.”
Wonderful Testimonials can be seen at my consulting rooms, proving
that my treatment is successful, if used for a reasonable time.
Scalps which have been nearly bald for years are now growing a
good, healthy crop of hair.
Mr. CUMMINGS writes from S.A.: —“My hair is getting on first-
rate.”
Mr. JOHNSON writes from Queensland: —“I have used your treat-
ment for a few months, and my hair is growing real good.”
Mr. CROSBY, Sea Lake, Victoria, writes: —“Two years ago I had
no hair on the top of my head; now', thanks to your wonderful remedy, I
have a splendid crop of hair.”
Mr. SHEPPARD, Tasmania, writes: —“l lost my hair, every bit of
it, when I was two years old, and I have been quite bal'd for 15 years. I
have used dozens of preparations, but they failed utterly to give me any
hair. Your treatment was brought under my notice, and lam glad to
say I am getting a splendid crop of hair.”
Mr. REYNOLDS, of Launceston, came to Melbourne to buy a wig.
Before doing so, he was advised to consult me, and, as a result of my
treatment, he has secured a good head of hair.
CONSTABLE TURNER, of N. S. Wales, writes:—“A friend of
mine was as bald as a billiard ball, and wore a wig for two years. He
has now secured a good head of hair with your Special Parasene and
Cosmo.”
A GENTLEMAN writes from Ravensthorpe (Q.) :—“I have been
troubled with a most severe form of scalp disease, and, although I have
had the best medical skill available, I was never free from a terrible irri-
tation until I commenced a six months’ course of your Parasene and
Cosmo. lam happy to say it is now quite cured. I look upon the money
spent on your treatment as a most excellent investment.”
NATURALINE TESTIMONIALS.
MADAM VATCPIES writes from Queensland: —“I have only used
two applications of your Naturaline, and it has colored my hair perfectly.
It’s a beautiful thing.”
A LADY living at Gawler, S.A., writes:—“l have used your
Naturaline for over 12 years, and none of my friends know I have a grey
hair on my head.”
A LADY writes from Wellington, N.Z.: —-“I never thought it
possible to get a preparation which would color my grey hair so perfectly
as your Naturaline does.”
Gentlemen whose hair is falling out should use Special Parasene at
night, and Cosmo in the morning, and wash the hair once a week with
Shampuna.
Price, by post, Victoria, two months’ treatment, 12/-; other States,
12/6; four months’, 22/6 and 23/6.
Ladies troubled with falling hair should use Restorer at night, and
Cosmo in the •morning, and wash it as often as necessary with Shampuna.
Price as above.
naturaline:.
Nature’s Great Remedy for coloring grey hair, beard and moustache.
It acts quickly, naturally and effectively, and is guaranteed to be perfectly
harmless.
No. 1, for light brown hair; Medium, for medium brown hair; No. 2,
for dark brown, and a light black. Extra Strong, for very black hair.
Price, Victoria, by post, 6/3; other States, 6/8.
For all Diseases of iScalp and Hair consult
E. HOLLAND,
Scalp and Hair
Specialist,
195 Collins Street,
next “ Arp'us
Office,
Melbourne


A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION, begotten of seden-
tary habits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver
and other organs. The best remedy for this unde-
sirable state of affairs is to stimuate the activity of
the whole bodily economy by taking a wineglassful
of “HUNYADI JANOS” natural aperient water
every morning.*
A GREAT LAW SUIT DECIDED.
The Supreme Court, the People, have decided that
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery wins against Coughs
and Colds. Price, 1/6 and 3/-.*
After the stress and worry of a busy day at the
office, take a dose of Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver
Extract. It infuses a new strength and energy.*
IMPURE BLOOD.
Treatment Needed to Cleanse and
Re-build.
Those who suffer from eczema and im-
purities in the blood, causing skin eruptions,
must not lose sight of the fact that the
trouble is not on the surface. This renders
ouiward applications useless. No perman-
ent cure can be obtained while the blood is
impure. This accounts for the success Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have met with in the
treatment of disorders of the blood. They
actually rebuild the blood and enable the
system to cast out the impurities.
The experience of Mrs. Arthur E.. Gray,
corner of Ann and Wandoo Streets, Valley,
Brisbane, is a case in point.
“I poisoned my hand and it gave me
trouble for years,” said Mrs. Gray. “All
over the left hand little hard lumps would
form, and after a few days would break and
discharge a thin, watery fluid and leave
I he surface raw and inflamed. Between the
fingers, also, the sores would come, and
the little finger was always the worst,
and I nearly lost it. The whole hand
would burn and smart. I could not
close my hand, it hurt so much. The
hand for years was practically useless.
I was always in pain and I could not relish
my food or enjoy anything. My general
health, too, was very poor. At last, know-
ing what good my daughter, Miss Annie
Williams, received, I thought of Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills and gave them a trial.
Gradually the itching was lessened and the
hand did not break out so badly, and after
a while I could feel the benefit gradually all
through my system. I kept on and after a
good course every symptom disappeared, the
palm and fingers began to turn pink and
healthy again, and now you could not tell
one hand from the other.”
Don’t let any dealer talk you into taking
something which he says is “just as good.”
If you are pestered to take a substitute, send
2/9 for one box, or 15/3 for six boxes, to
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Go. of Austral-
asia, Ltd., Sydney.
*
DENYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6 ; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or Write.
DENYER BROS.,Truss&Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE TRYST.
Sweets for the swetl!
A Mrs. Jordan, lecturing on “Woman and
Socialism” at Wontliaggi, the Vic. coal town,
said that the Baby Bonus was a bribe “to
induce the workers to bring others into the
world, so that they might be exploited in the
interests of capitalists.” What a deep-laid
scheme it is ! Candidly, The Bulletin’s
opinion is that the device is an insidious plot
hatched by Federal Ministers, with Wowser-
ish sympathies, to provide congregations for
unemployed Hardshell Baptist parsons.
A big party of Sydney politicians and
others went West last week to see the formal
start of Australia’s biggest irrigation enter-
prise to date. The least promising part
about the whole business is that, when the
applications closed for the 400-odd farms at
Yanco, there were fewer applicants than
farms. Most of the areas are, of course,
small, and, though the perpetual rent is
ridiculously easy, the freehold isn’t available.
Australia’s old habit of jobbing in land has
a lot to answer for; so much, in fact, that
the average agriculturist is now half-farmer
and half land-speculator, and the number of
times that the soil changes hands, generally
at a small advance, explains why the last
farmer’s shoulders are bent with the weight
of the mortgage. Yet when he is invited
to make a comparatively easy living as an
agriculturist pure and simple, as at Yanco,
he sniffs and passes by.
“Vulcan”: The Ivatoomba branch of
Wade’s Wimmen’s Liberal League came out
recently with a new and thoughtful nlank
for addition to the Liberal platform, viz.: —
That a large bonus be offered to scientists for the
discovery of a method whereby strong drink can be
made non-intoxicating, whilst not altering its ap-
parent quality.
In fact it is proposed to offer a large prize
for a teetotal drunk. Possibly the thing
will transpire one of these days. Then the
typical story of the future may begin some-
what after this fashion :
It was a bitterly hot winter day in the middle of
the month of Boshuary. A brown sun was rising
in the west, and a dry rain fell heavily. The wind was
perpendicular. Gwendoline, with umbrellas on her feet,
drifted aimlessly down the street, buried in thought.
Being buried, she naturally carried her tombstone
under her arm. Suddenly she was awakened from
her reverie by hearing a strong smell of alcohol, and
looking up she saw Harold, in a lamentable state of
sober intoxication, walking backwards towards her.
She uttered a silent howl —-
But on the whole that style of composition
involves too much hard work.
WOULD HAVE PREFERRED HIS
BUSINESS ATTENDED TO FIRST.
It is to be a campaigning session.— Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, on the opening of the Federal Parlia-
ment.
AUSTRALIA: “Ye gods ! They are at it already .”
“Hullo”: The decision of the Minister for
Customs, recently announced in Sydney, to
maintain the standing tariff of 25 per cent,
on all imported pictures other than those by
Australian artists, shows an ignorance of
the value of art explicable only because his
colleague, the Minister for Grace and Ele-
gance, has not yet been appointed. A flat rate,
say, £5 or £5O per picture, would prevent the
importation of shoddy—the flooding of the
Australian market by which seems to be the
Minister’s ideal—but would allow of the im-
portation of many a valuable and highly-
priced work, which under the present ad
valorem tariff cannot be imported except by
millionaires. It is true that pictures for
public galleries, etc., come in free ; but even
our richest citizens might like to buy a few
masterpieces for their own homes. Judging
by the furnishing of those homes, they need
something of the sort.
With the weakening of political forces in
M.L. has come a fresh effort on the part of
the Wowser. He has seized his brolly, and
announced to the Ministry of the moment that
unless he is allowed to rule on the liquor
question on a bare-majority basis, he will
declare war. Seeing that he has been wag-
ing war like a frenzied Mahommedan ever
since he started, it would be interesting to
know what he means. Meantime, a section
of him has turned his attention to the Terri-
torial camps. There, like a Barnum Prowl
scout, he crawls on his knees round the
tents after dark in search of the dead
marine, and when he finds it he rushes off to
the nearest editor, and breathlessly planks
the damning evidence before him. The last
hollow bit of evidence was proved to have
contained kerosene immediately prior to its
decease; but it takes a lot to dishearten the
Wowser.
“Longy” : For defence against the yellow
or alien peril, the State-paid man behind the
gun; for defence against the drink or beer
menace, the State-paid man behind the bar.
The Socialistic barman will do more to extir-
pate drunkenness than all the prohibitive
legislation in the world. The reason is
obvious. Under the Private Enterprise sys-
tem of liquor-retailing, the measure of the
barman’s success is practically the amount
of drink he contrives to sell. The State
barman would have no cause to behave in
that injurious fashion. On the contrary, the
fact of his having served a citizen who had
had enough would automatically earn him
the sack. Up here (Cloncurry) amuse-
ments are few, and drink constitutes about
three-fourths of them. You will never abol-
ish it. Then why not get it under more effi-
cient control?
William Webster, M.H.R., president of the
late Postal Commission, addresses a few
brief remarks to his friend, Carty Salmon,
M.H.R. (Australian Hansard, 5/7/12) :
No man whom I have met in my public experience
would lend himself to what the lion, member for
Laanecoorie has lent himself. No man would do
what he did in regard to the Postal Commission. He
hypocritically joined the Commission, hoping to
slay it, and, when the time came, sought to lay the
axe to its neck... I have never met a man who
would stoop to the level to which he stooped in ac-
cepting a position on the Postal Commission, intend-
ing not to carry out his duties, but to prevent the
Commission from doing its work...He entered into
a conspiracy to kill the Commission before it had
got far on the road. Let him explain that conduct.
It seems a reasonable request, considering
the accusation.
DRIFT— THE GENERAL POLICV.
ONE TO THE OTHER:
“Sosherlist! Anarchistt”
"Monopolist! Thief!”
Meantime everyone's too tired —or too busy to
bother about hoisting the national main-sheet,
and so they'll continue to the final bump or
reminder.
The Customs Department has struck
trouble afresh in its efforts to stamp out the
opium traffic. Recent convictions of persons
found with the poppy glory in their posses-
sion have been upset for lack of proof that
the accused have actually imported the drug.
The State courts hold that all the Customs
can do is to prosecute for a breach of the
Customs Act, and that once the opium is
inside the Commonwealth, traffic in the
article becomes a matter of State concern.
Had the last Referenda proposals been
carried, this weak point could be attended
to; but, as it is, the Customs officials have
to rely on the States for assistance, and,
generally, they get as little as they expect.
According to a speaker at a recent London
meeting, this is how the London clerk s
family “lives” on the regulation guinea per
week:—
s. d.
Rent . . .. • ■ • ■ ® ®
Insurance .. • • • • • • 1 “
Light, heat, etc. . . . . • • • • 2 2
Husband’s food . . . . • • • - 3 6
Wife and children’s food . . . . • ■ 510
“The proportionately large sum of 3s. 6d.
for the husband’s food,” said the speaker, “is
due to the fact that no man in full work in
London can be properly fed on less than 6d.
per day.” The wife and children exist on
porridge, bread and dripping, suet pudding,
and potatoes, at three-halfpence per day
each ; and if they “taste new milk, by any
chance,” its accustomed richness makes
them sick!” The list makes no pretence
that Freetrade or any other influence has
made England a land of special cheapness.
It simply poses as a land of special economy.
“Vic”: War Minister Pearce has just ac-
cepted, for Duntroon Military College, a so-
called historic picture, by J. L. Ross, repre-
senting a review of Victorian volunteers at
Werribee on All Fool’s Day, 1861. I don’t
think Duntroon will care a dump about the
picture, though it might have an ephemeral
interest for the Melbourne Gallery because
it introduces a few locally-interesting men.
Among them can be picked out Captain Bell,
commanding the Geelong unit; music-seller
Wilkie, of Melbourne Mounted Rifles;
Lieut.-Colonel Anderson, of the Artillery:
Professor Irving, Carlton Rifles; Colonel
Champ, Pentridge Rifles; Captain E. P. S.
Sturt, Melbourne Rifles; Captain Redmond
Barry, of Fitzroy; Captain Francis Murphy,
of Collingwood; and Captain H. Hammond,
of Hawthorn. “Geelong” Bell was a big
Western squatter. Lieutenant-Colonel An-
derson was a tall Thespian amateur, a great
chum of William Don, and the pair acted
together on the Goldfields in “Box and Cox.”
Professor and Captain Martin Irving was
son of the great pulpit orator, Edward
Irving, who would have married Jane Welsh
but that Miss Martin would not let him off
her engagement. Jane ultimately married
Carlyle. Col. Champ was _ the slaughtered
Price’s successor as Chief Prison Man. Sturt
was the well-known magistrate, brother of the
explorer. Redmond Barry was the Judge,
Francis Murphy the Speaker, and Hammond
a leading Customs officer.
Evidently the alleged .Liberals of N. S.
Wales have abandoned hope of getting back
to power at the next general election. Mil-
len, who leads the party in the Senate, told
the Liberal conference in Sydney, the other
day, that N. S. Wales would have to borrow
36 millions during the next three years—lB
millions to renew old debts and 18 millions
of new debt, the latter on the assumption
that the Labor party would continue last
year’s policy and borrow six millions a year.
Besides his energetic work of two years
ago in starting the State coal-mine at Won-
thaggi, Victoria’s Mines Minister Mcßride
has another item to his credit —his insistence
on the use of marble from the Buchan
(Gippsland) quarries in decorating the in-
terior of Melbourne’s
new Public Library. The
stone is black, with buff:,
drab and grey veins, and
architects and builders
admit that nothing better
in its line ever came into
Melbourne. It is abso-
lutely flawless and cap-
able of bearing great
weights. Had the Aus-
tralian capital being
placed on Monaro, that
marble would have been
handily situated for the
building of a beautiful
city, but it might as well
be at Timbuctoo for all
the use it can be to Yass-
berra, the proposed wil-
derness of baked bricks.
The farmer is a hard
man to do much barrack-
ing for. At his confer-
ence at Warrna mbool
(Vic.) the other day one
delegate moved that “the
authorities be asked to
enforce the Act relating
to the adulteration of
chaff, such mixture,
though now prohibited,
being nevertheless largely
sold.” His motion was
enthusiastically negatived!
The farmer isn’t a buyer
of chaff, as a rule; when
his stock doesn’t consume
his own produce, he is a
seller. And in his dread-
fully distorted view any
law which tries to block
the farmer from taking
the rest of the commun-
ity down, even by a cruel
fraud, isn’t one with
which he ouvht to be ex-
pected to sympathise.
The latest, and apparently most busi-
ness-like, attempt to organise the consumers
is the establishment of Housewives’ Unions.
The idea is American, and Yankee orator
Walter Mills (in Maoriland) and Labor
member Woods (in Tasmania) are pushing
the notion with success. The Invercargill
branch has just entered into a milk contract
which gives the union women their house-
hold supply of cow-juice at 4d. per gallon
less than they formerly paid, though the
actual dairy farmer gets sd. per gallon more
than ever. The ninepence per gallon thus
gained may be used to buy the unnecessary
horde of middlemen some food for reflection.
A SONG OF SPECIAL SADNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. G. 11. Archibald, an English lecturer on child
psychology, referred to the defence measures under-
taken by the Commonwealth. He remarked that it
was the nature of small boys to be combative. “I
think the saddest thing I have encountered in Aus-
tralia,” he said, “is the military policy.” Many
voices were instantly raised in dissent. “I am
sorry,” the lecturer added, “but I am afraid you
are going to bring war upon yourselves by that
attitude, as sure as you are a people.”
-—S. M. Herald.
Lo! I am sad,
Too sad for the solemn relief of tears,
Too tearful within my burdened heart to weep ;
1 have seen the thing, the thing that is saddest of
all,
And my soul is shaken within me.
Ever it must be while sun and moon endure,
While oysters dwell at the Dago’s,
While trains are late,
While trams are overcrowded,
While fish will turn in the sun,
That the little boys will want to fight
For a cause or no cause,
For the joy of punching a head
And being punched in return.
Would ye arm them with guns?
AVould ye teach them to shoot?
Would ye drill them for war?
Lo, the combative kids,
They will shout against peace,
They will barrack for war
Till the enemy comes
Hot-foot to their challenge!
Then we shall see a scrap,
A horrible scrap for the victory—
It is this makes me sad.
It is a palpable fact,
A fact that psychologists wot of,
That the nations the strongest in arms,
Who stand to defend their own borders,
Are always provoking the raider
To rush on their cannon,
To challenge their prowess—
It is this makes me sad.
If Australia be armed to the teeth,
And ready on land and on water
To smite from her borders the foeman,
And make him eat dirt,
The -foeman is perfectly certain
To rush upon speedy destruction,
Because all experience teaches .
He likes eating dirt— «
It is this makes me sad.
If the foeman, without getting injured,
Can easily take from our holding
All wealth that we shrink from defending,
Can joyfully capture our country,
And do what he will with the people,
Does anyone think for a moment
The foeman will do it?
Not he!
He is too kind ;
He wouldn’t think of it for a moment;
If he did we should call him a nasty man !
Then why beat on drums and blow bugles?
IVhy train up the kids to be soldiers?
The thing is so perfectly simple,
As easy as soap on the staircase,
As plain as a knife.
But the combative kids
When thej' grow to be men
Will want to be shot,
And if foemen should come,
They will probably fight
Until someone gets hurt,
And to think about this
Makes me saddest of all.
In fact it makes me blessed miserable.
mw.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


mm
appeal to the artistic tastes of all true lovers
of music.
Both musically and artistically the Superb
Ronisch Piano meets every requirement.
Its touch is even, and responsive. Its tone
full, pure and sympathetic.
The Ronisch h sold at an exceedingly
moderate price considering its wonderful
value.
It is so well built that it will last a lifetime,
and we sell it covered by our full guarantee.
We can arrange easy time payments to suit
you.
mm
mm
mm
mmm
11 hi 1
We invite you to visit our Show Rooms
and inspect our latest Ronisch Pianos.
If unable to call, write for our descriptive
catalogue and price list —it’s post free.
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at NEWCASTLE. LISMORE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA.
/
m
§
PAMOUS
SCOTCH WHISKY
s
U
Is
CAMERAS & LENSES
Stock-taking Reductions.
Prior to our annual stock-taking we are offering an exceptionally fine
lot of Cameras, Lenses and Photographic Novelties at 25% below usual
Catalogue Prices.
These goods are not old, obsolete patterns, but are the very best makes of
Cameras for Daylight Loading Roll Films and Glass Plates, slightly shop
soiled, and including the following—
GOERZ, ENSIGN, VICTOR, ENSIGNETTE, ERNEMANN,
FOCAL PLANE, STALEY REFLEX, SHEW REFLEX,
ROYAL FAVORITE, VOIGTLANDER HELIAR REFLEX,
AND MANY PROFESSIONAL CAMERAS.
There are also some of the famous Voigtlander-Collinear Lenses, in all
sizes, that are particularly worth seeing.
25°/,
If you cannot call and see these exceptional
Bargains, write us at once for a Price List of
all goods included in the Stock-taking
Reduction of
TWENTY-FIVE PER CENT.
25 1
f
The Leading Photographic Merchants in Australasia,
386 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY .
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland (N.Z.), Wellington (N.Z.),
A. L. TILLY, Special Agent, Forth, W.A.


BILIOUS ATTACKS.
UNABLE TO WORK, BUT DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS BROUGHT
INSTANT RELIEF.
Probably there is no complaint so com-
mon as bilious attacks. Men, women and
children are subject to them, and while they
last life is made miserable. They a.re ac-
companied by .sick headaches. The liver is
not doing its duty. That is the cause, and
as soon as the liver receives the proper as-
sistance, the digestive organs move along
smoothly again. For this complaint . Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are unrivalled.
They get at the cause, which is the liver.
“I have frequently suffered from severe
bilious attacks,” writes Miss Sybil Slingsby,
70 Abercrombie Street, Redfern, “and vio-
lent headaches, which incapacitated me from
work. I found, however, on taking a dose
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, on retir-
ing at night, that I would be quite well
the next day. I cannot speak too highly of
them, and willingly recommend them to
others. You may use this if you desire.”
ƒ
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
sA\s
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices s Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Grand National Steeplechases are long
jobs, nevertheless the race these times is nearly always
to the swift — i.e., swift as ’chasers go. The plodder
will be soon an utter stranger to the roll of fame.
As racecourses approach nearer to the smoothness
of the billiard-table, the rugged old battling quadru-
peds are losing all chance of “wearing down’’ their
lighter and brighter opponents. Old Vanguard,
despite his poor performance as a light-weight in
the Steeplechasers’ Flat Race, was tipped to carry
list. 121 b. and win the G.N. last Saturday, because
he is a great jumper when he gangs his own gait.
But when he was bustled to keep his place in the
field, the notable jumper dropped out of it. He
was one of the 10 (out of 17) that never finished the
journey. It was not the fences, but the pace, that
killed him.
Though there was no run-away leader to set the
pace in the big event, it was run in record time—-
fully 2see. faster than the previous best. Guneap,
who carried lOst. 61b. and The Bulletin’s confidence,
was always among the leading four, and from the
time when Nimrod fell in front of the Stand (bring-
ing Quilatchil down with him), the son of Carbinier
was one of the foremost two. Half a mile from
home he took charge, and h's stamina was equal to
the run up the straight. Guneap won with a bit to
spare from the outsider, United Kingdom, and the
public had nothing to grumble at. The horse has
run consistently well of late. He started at eights,
after being steadily backed on the course at 10 to
one. A rather pale chestnut, suggestive of Wallace
in color, is this honest representative of the Carbine
clan. Smaller than most of them, he is yet big
enough to carry anything less than list, in first-class
steeple company. Moreover, he was one of the
youngest in the field. Both he and the runner-up
are five-year-olds, and, with good luck, both of them
will earn their keep in the hereafter.
Tinapagee had punters in doubt and layers in a
funk at the start of the Grand Nat. Steeple. Many
of the books refused to lay even three to one against
the Godby mystery, whilst the pubi c was quite pre-
pared to see the long-legged favorite win by the
proverbial “street” if he climbed the fences safely.
His easv win, with list, up, in the two-mile event,
on the Wednesday, had staggered everybody who saw
his unaccountable performance in the Maiden Steeple
on the previous Saturday. Excuses were made for
his half-hearted jumping on that occason, and an-
other jockev was given the mount this time. In
the G.N. test he was ridden carefully, as though to
work up his confidence at the leaps, and he was going
like a probable winner up to the time of the Nimrod
smash. Then he got interfered with, or he presently
struck some timber without falling. Anyhow, the
speedy Tinap. had dropped back nearly last before
he ultimately got his quietus, falling so unobtrusively
that the old, familiar shout of “The favorite’s
down!” was barely audible.
* * * *
After all. the adverse report of the Tote
Commission will not affect the question of introduc-
ing the machine in any way. It was such an appall-
ing Commission that probably its curse will do the
cause more good than its benediction. When the
evidence is available, though, the hostile report may
do the gentry who made it considerable harm.
People will be bound to think meanly of their in-
telligence. And where their intelligence is not
questioned, their honesty of purpose will be. Take
the case of the wonderful Perry, who so cheerfully
voted against the clean, honest machine. Said
Perry: “The Commission was referred to as a jun-
ketting excursion. That can't apply to me, because
I went nowhere with the Commission.” So he didn’t
“commish” at all, but just voted according to his
own ancient prejudice.
* * * *
The Australian XI escaped from the mois-
ture of England last week, and put in the time in
Scotland. There they enjoyed, for two purely picnic
games, the wickets for which they had vainly yearned
in the muddy South, Caledonia, stern and wild, hav-
ing partly dried up for once. These picnic fixtures
do not count in the record of the team and its
achievements, and are merely holiday rests. So
things, triangularly speaking, were mighty quiet.
The South Africans, after their second bout with
England, had three days marked blank on the
programme. In the second week of June, England’s
337 beat Africa’s 58 and 217 by an innings and 62
runs. England held the thick end of the stick all
along, leading off with 242, of which the big guns,
Hobbs, Rhodes, Spooner, Fry and Jessop, aggregated
only 81. Woolley (57), Hearne (45), and Foster
(30) were the highest individual scorers. Ex-soldier
Nourse captured four of the best for 52. Pegler, who
has bagged over 100 wickets this tour, got three
for, 112; and also top-scored with 35 not out in
Africa’s first innings (147). Barnes simply romped
through the side, taking six for 52, and leaving
Deane three for 41 and Woolley one for 13. In Eng-
land’s second effort Rhodes, Fry, Woolley, Jessop and
Foster made 22 among them, but Spooner with 82,
Hobbs 55, and -Hearne 35, helped to run the total
to 238. Faulkner improved from two for 50 to four
for 50. Nourse bagged three for 52, and Pegler three
for 110.' S’Africa wanted 333 to win, with
the immortal Buckley’s chance of getting them.
Seven sticks fell for 85, and then Tanered with
39, Pegler with 32 and Carter with 31, made
a sort of a stand and forced the figures to
159. Barnes bagged four for 63, Deane two for 15,
Foster two for 51, and Hearne one tail-ender for five
—his cheapest wicket for many a long day. So
England sauntered home with a margin of 174 runs.
The most terrible thing in the match was the fall of
the great Faulkner (who scored 122 not out against
Australia, and nine and 75 against England in the
previous “triangulars”), for five and 0 this time. The
Africans have improved in bowling, but their batting
is beastly uncertain.
* * * *
Preparations for the great tug-o’-war at
Sydney Stadium are being pushed forward rapidly.
The Stadium roof has only to be finished off, and the
place will be ready by August 3. Meantime, there is
much argument about the details of the mighty rope
contest. The cask-jugglers from the Melbourne brew-
eries are likely to send a team to Sydney with a
view to taking the bacon back to the southern capi-
tal, and they are anxious that the struggle should
take place over close-set battens. The Mclnstoush has
decided otherwise. There will be a properly con-
structed pulling stage, with cleats placed 4ft. apart.
Each man will stand at his post and slowly develop
his 12-goat-power pull to stay there, and gather in
the rope, so that the other fellow will have to let
go or be vanked over with it, whichever appeals
most to his fanev. After much brain-sweat and
earnest prayer, Makinsnlosh has devised a “pullo-
meter.” which will register every inch of advantage
gaified by either side, on dials facing as manv direc-
tions as the Great Liberal party; and, unlike that
Party, it will be disnosed so as not to obscure the
forces which will decide the issue.
A football tour without banquets is almost
as unhappy an affair as a dog without fleas —some-
thing utterly opposed to Nature, and, therefore, hor-
rible. Such is the position of the M.L. Rugby
League team which, at time of writing, is cooling
its heels in Sydney town. The trouble arose this
way: The M.L. League Council, having decided that
a match between the Rovers and the home team,
representing Wellington, would gather many shekels,
cabled the manager to take his merry men straight
from the Sydney ground to the boat. The merry
men, when they received the instructions, snorted
violently, and later on informed the manager they
would see him blowed first; a banquet had been
arranged, and they were going to have it, all of it,
and bust the odds. Then the manager did the snort-
ing—no doubt in a strictly professional way; but he
failed to shake the decision of the team. All this
happened before Saturday’s match, and for a moment
the League considered the advisability of cancelling
that fixture, as it felt that by playing the match it
was encouraging insubordination, barratry and worse.
But to cancel the match might offend the sovereign
public, the moneyed partner in the concern, so that
idea was turned down. The Sydney League played
the match, and won it handsomely, and then salved
its conscience by cancelling the banquet. His Ex., J.
Joynton Smith, explained lucidly in the press why
and wherefore, giving excellent reasons, which must
appeal powerfully to all supporters of Law-’n’-Order
(after the cash had been raked in). But the Maori-
land team has one consolation. Nothing anybody
can do can hurt it —it’s too hopeless. It has no
chance of ever being picked again; and, therefore,
can afford to be magnificently independent. No
Hope can have No Fear!
As for the match itself, it was played under con-
ditions which would have appealed to a team from
wet, windy Wellington. But, unfortunately for it-
self, the bulk of the team came from sunlit Auck-
land, where the climate is composed of the fragments
left over in the making of Paradise; hence most of
the players were quite out of it, in the wind, rain
and flying mud of Sydney Agricultural Ground on
Saturday, and at a bigger disadvantage than the
Sydney team. In fact, the mighty Messenger’s right
hoof did not seem to be inconvenienced in the
slightest, and his kicking was as fatal as ever —-so
much so as to almost inspire belief in the scurrilous
story that he practises with a ball soaked in oil and
greased with hog-fat. His kicking would have been
good under the best of conditions; as things were, it
was little short of miraculous. He booted no less
than four goals, and made only one failure. The
Maoriland back division seemed to be all right; the
weakness was in the front rank. The forwards were
neither fast nor strong enough to hold their own
against the Cornstalk pack, and the result was that
the back division had to rescue the forwards instead
of being fed by them. It was the only game the
back division could play, but, naturally, it could
not be a winning game. The significant part of the
business is that N.S.W. put up 12 of its 14 points
in the first half. In the second it managed to land
only two, while Maoriland’s only score—-three points
—accrued during that part of the game. Which
suggests pointedly that at the end the Maorilanders
were going stronger than the Australians, and had
the victorious Cornstalks hard at work . defending
their goal; indeed, they only saved it twice by
timely forcing. To the writer the force-down has
always seemed manifestly unfair, and the side that
saves by forcing should certainly be penalised by
the loss of at least one point.
The Maorilanders had the usual bad luck with
N.S.W. this trip, losing two of the three matches
played, and scoring only 23 points to the Ma State’s
48. Altogether -nine games have been played be-
tween the State and the Dominion under League
rules, and N. S. Wales has won seven of them, and
scored 209 points to 111. Maoriland won the third
match of the 1909 tour and the second one this trip
—the first by 20 to eight and the second by 12 to
seven. In spite of all that has been said to the con-
trary, Maoriland football has decayed, while that of
N.S.W. has improved out of sight. At the present
moment Ma is probably the premier football State of
the world.
N.S.W. Rugby Union has revived a lot.
The standard of play has been elevated considerably,
and the attendance of the public has increased _in
consequence. In fact, it looks as though the Union
were beginning to recover from the ghastly gap made
in its ranks by the League. The League being now
so bloated it can swallow no more, the struggling
Union has made good use of the respite, and built
up its form to something like the old standard.
The game, as played in Sydney last Saturday, was,
in the nature of things, a huge mud-larking carnival;
but, all the same, there were brilliant flashes of com-
bined play under most difficult circumstances, that
were better evidence of solid training than any fair-
weather play had ever shown. There is no better
test of a club’s training than a miserable day, when
the solid earth slithers from under the feet and the
waves of slush rise up and choke the charging player.
Then, if there is any reflex action, it shows itself.
The astounding match of the day was between
Newtown and St. George. The pace the Saints put
up in spite of the slush was a staggerer, and New-
town closed its teeth and fought as it never fought
before this season. Why in thunder the team didn’t
play the same way earlier in the season, Heaven and
the team knows; had it dpne so, the Saints had
surely held a better position than third in the B
division. They “went mad” ;so much so as to make
one wonder if the whole crowd had been doped.
All the same, the defence of Newtown was too solid,
and the bangh-drinkers or hashish-eaters were, after
a powerful struggle in the mud, downed by three
points to nil. Nobody was more glad than the vic-
torious team when the whistle went. The same No-
body expected that Manly would make anything like
a decent stand against East Suburbs; yet, after the
Suburbs had lost three men, carried off the field, the
Village felt it had more than Buckley’s show. But
the straightforward, ding-dong attack of the charg-
ing Eastern back brigade broke Manly right up, and
left it spread-eagled by 11 points to five. Neverthe-
less, it was about the closest thing the Eastern
crowd has had this season, and the winning score
might easily have gone to Manly. In other words,
the final score was a lucky chance; and Fate awarded
it to Eastern Suburbs. The University met its old-
time bete noir (Glebe),) and after a mighty riot was
completely overthrown and rolled in the mud —19 to
eight. It was not a spectacular battle, but a long-
sustained, wearying succession of struggles, under
conditions in which pace went for nothing, and
everything boiled down to power of endurance; and
Glebe carried the weight. Balmain’s victory oyer
South Sydney was quite unexpected. After a period
of strenuous attack South Sydney went for a while
to pieces; whereupon Balmain let go a beautifully
sustained passing charge, got over, and added the
points. Then it, too, faded out, and South resumed
the attack, only to be repulsed every time, till the
whistle blew, and Balmain had won by five to nil.
The position of the Competition grows interesting.
In the A division, University, in spite of its crushing
defeat, is leading with 17 points, and Glebe and
Eastern Suburbs follow with 15 each. North Sydney
and Manly have eight and seven respectively. In the
B division Western Suburbs and Newtown are on
top with 16 points each ; St. George has 10, and Bal-
main and South Sydney seven and three respectively.
Having got rid of its inter-State visitors,
the Sydney Soccer footballers resumed the even
tenor of their various and several competitions. In
the Sudden Death battle for the Gardiner Cup the
first round saw Y.M.C.A., Portland, Glebe, Granville,
Sydney B, South Sydney Methodists (good Lord!),
Auburn United, Newtown and West Wallsend left
dead by the roadside. The second round brought dis-
aster to the Northern Suburbs, West Sydney and the
Navy. This leaves Sydney, Balmain A and Cessnock
in the third round. The second round was decided
on Saturday, and Balmain A won its chance of re-
newed life by squelching West Sydney by four goals
to nil. The play was described by the cognoscenti
as “splendiferous,” though how anyone could play
“splendiferously” on any ground in Sydney on storm-
swept Saturday, passes all human understanding. Cess-
nock outed the Navy, by three to one, and Balmain C
and Burns's Club made a drawn game with one goal
each. Here endeth the Gardiner Cup. In the Rawson Cup
Sydney simply scrunched Granville by seven goals to
nil, and blew it right out. A club that gets walloped
by seven goals at Soccer is worse than dead. Glebe
mounted its high horse, and rode over Canterbury
by five goals to two, and Balmain carefully collected
the points that go to the owner of the bye. In the
Association Cup struggle Balmain blew out the Good
Young Men by three goals to one. Still, that was
not so bad as the hiding sustained by Newtown at
the feet of the artificers of Garden Island, who won
by three goals to nil. The John Hops, officially
known as the Police, held their own, through long
practice at grabbing drunks, with Northern Suburbs,
and although they had all the worst of the game,
finally staggered out with a draw—one goal each.
The resources of “the Slops” in the way of blocking
a charge are simply infinite. Somehow, writer has
a dark suspicion that the Police will be one of the
crack clubs next season. The John Hop life makes
for physical endurance. The open air life, the con-
stant walking exercise, and the frequent nourishment
supplied along the beat all make for strength, endur-
ance and blanky brute force; and the present season’s
training is making for combination.
it * * *
S.A. Football Association, which the visit-
ing N.S.W. team twice took on last week under
Australian rules, frankly admits itself subordinate
to the local League; but, as Adelaide, except for a
little Soccer, knows nothing but these Australian
rules, its second-best was Just good enough for the
best from Sydney, where three codes struggle along.
In both the matches, superior training pulled the
home team through, as they came at the end after
looking like losing. Scores: 9.16 to 6.8, and 5.7 to
3.8.
** * *
Saturday’s hoofball by Yarra’s Bank was
full of mysterious surprises and unaccountable con-
clusions. Essendon was meeting Carlton on the
latter’s ground, and all the laws of probability fore-
told a close struggle, with less than a goal difference
at the finish. Yet for two days before the match
Carlton supporters were offering to lay two to one
on their men, and, significantly enough, few ’Don
barrackers seemed eager to take the odds. The game
bore out the “market” prognostications, the Old
Blues going off with the lead, and getting further
and further ahead as time wore on, till they finally
acquired 76 points to ’Don’s 33. During the rout
several of the “Same Old’s” players were laid out,
and their champion half-back and follower fractured
his leg so complexly that he will probably play foot-
ball no more. Over at Victoria Park ’Wood was
fighting with its back to the wall. It had two more
injured men to add to the long casualty list, and of its
18 players onlv five were in the team two years ago.
Also, 'its antagonists—St. Hilda —had passed it a
severe drubbing earlier in the season, so the southern
barrackers lined up in force, and the motors outside
the ground were like a garage at theatre time. Yet
the Saints returned whence they came, dour and dis-
gusted, and from the racing motors came no shouts
of victory. Not only had they lost the game, but
also their last chance of reaching the finals this year.
Yet they played the better game in all but one
particular. By splendid marking and kicking, and
by systematic hand-passing, they kept level till
lemon-time; after that the Magpies, by sheer, dogged
persistence, wore them down, and won by 63 points
to 40. During the disturbance three ’Woodmen and
one Saint were temporarily laid out. Melbourne,
refreshed by a trip to Tasmania, tackled South, but
speedily discovered that its refreshments had been
too copious or too mellow, and that the way to the
premiership lies not through holiday trips and
similar fal-de-rals. The record of the collision was:
South, 86 points ; Melbourne, eight; which was dis-
graceful. Geelong treated its opponents, ’Roy, much
as ’AVood did St. Hilda, passing it out of the struggle
with a score of 73 points to 40; and Richmond
grabbed its last likely chance of scoring a wir, this
season by jumping on the Students with 85 points to
28. .
The recent notable walloping of the leading Ass.
team (North) by ’Seray, has apparently brought that
team an attack of swelled head. It narrowly escaped
defeat by Brighton, and on Saturday it sprawled
before the hoofs of Essendon, and was trodden in the
mud, even as a poley cow treadeth out the com.
The scorer’s last remark was: ’Don, 99 points;
’Scray, 47. Port, which still has a chance of grasp-
ing pennant honors, seized P’ran with both hands, so
to speak, and spun it endways and all roads, but
only got there with a majority of nine points, after
a barrowload .of wasted effort. North likewise
downed ’Cote by a slight margin—66 points to 53
and Brunswick got a little better of ’Town—B4 to
64. Also, Brighton handed Melbourne City its
thirteenth consecutive walloping; relevant to which
this writer desires to assure the citizens that they
have but five more games to play, and if they would
avoid the complete and utter blob, it is time they
got a move on.
The Vic. League recently considered the case of
Gotz. This youth was no star, but he was a bogger-
in, and for seven long years Carlton paid him £3 a
week for his in-bogging, which sum duly appeared
in the balance-sheet as “hot baths,” “boot studs,
and so forth. Last season, when open payment was
agreed to, Carlton’s committee opined that Gotz was
worth only £2 10s. He played for a while, but was
lax in his training, and when he was carpeted for
striking Seitz, of ’A r arsity, and the Law stepped in,
Carlton “rested” him, without pay. The law case
cost Carlton £l5O, and the committee has “rested
Gotz ever since. Now he wants to transfer to St.
Hilda, but Carlton will neither give him a permit
nor play him. He appealed to the League, which up-
held Carlton’s committee, so the young man’s name
is now Gotz, alias Mud.
The grip which hoofball mania gets on some youths
is instanced by a case which is disturbing scholars
and “old boys” of Melbourne’s public schools, one of
which——Scotch College—has had its three
this season wiped off the slate because it inadvert-
ently played a youth over the age limit of 20 years.
For some’ reason this youth, who was born on October
17 1890, gave his birthday, when entering Xavier
College, as October 24, 1891. That should have
ended his school hoofball career last, season, but on
February 19 this year he left Xavier and began
attending Scotch College, giving his birthday this
time as November 24, 1892. The Xavier authorities
gave him a hint not to play any more; then, finding
he was still playing, there was nothing to do but
communicate with “Scotch,” and the youth has
been requested to remove himself.
The inter-State hockey carnival in Ade-
laide worked up steadily to an exciting finish. Of
the four competing States, Tasmania —winners last
year—sent a very young team from Launceston, and,
though speedy, they were lacking in experience. The
Victorians seemed too slow. These two States lost
to both the others, and on the final afternoon played
a sporting drawn game with each other at two all.
N.S.W. (seven to two and three to one) had not
done quite so well against the weaker two as had
S.A. (six to one and five to 0), but Ma's strength lay
in defence. When the stronger two met at last, the
bustling Adelaide forwards found themselves bustled
off the ball. Generally within scoring range, they
only scored once. Meanwhile the S.A. backs, lying
weil up the field, were in danger whenever a quick
rush came that way. Final verdict for N.S.W., two
to one. The Adelaide public took no great interest
in the matches. Lacrosse has a big hold in S. Aus.,
and hockey is regarded as merely its little brother,
so to speak.
* * * *
A man who hunts is a hunter, and a man
who lacrosses is a “lacrosseur” —and don’t forget it,
and call him by some other name which will not
sound as sweet. Saturday was an awful day in
Sydney, and the baseballers looked at the streaming
skies, and “chucked” it. Not so the lacrosseurs.
They were not afraid of anything, and all the teams,
to the last mother’s son, turned up to time, and
then got into it, like chickens into mud. The slush
was like pea-soup, but they seemed to enjoy it, and,
curiously enough, showed a high standard of play.
Petersham downed Stanmore by five to one; Manly
smashed University by four to nil; and Eastern
Suburbs overthrew Mohicans by 19 to nil.
* * * *
Flushed with his victory over the medi-
ocrity Flynn, Johnson has opened his head in char-
acteristic style. He is anxious for more victims —
and money—and now, according to the cable, an-
nounces that he is ready to take on Langford, McVea
and Palzer. Also, he begs of them to give him fights
before old age overtakes him. He declares he is
weary of hearing that they are anxious to fight him,
and invites them to come along quickly and get
wiped out, so that he can demonstrate to an admiring
world that he is the chief nigger in it. Certainly,
little Langford has displayed a marked anxiety to
get into holts with him, and, certainly, Johnson, for
some reason, has hitherto displayed an equally
marked disinclination to let him. In fact his stub-
bornness in avoiding that contest is even greater
than that which Burns displayed in dodging Johnson,
and Burns was at least dodging a bigger and heavier
man than himself, while the man Johnson has per-
sistently side-stepped is only about half his own size.
This sudden outburst of wild desire to shed Lang-
ford’s nose-blood is interesting.
* * * *
T/inrlrum and Recce gave an interesting
billiard show at A 1 cock’s (Melb.), last week, so the
final sessions of their 12 days tussle should be worth
watching. The Australian champion is confining
himself mainly to the all-round game, which, by the
way, is rather “top-of-the-table” than all-round.
When Lindrum refrains from the mechanical “Gray
stroke,” there is nothing to choose between him
and the somewhat prettier artist, and at half-time
last Saturday it was anybody’s game. Reece has
the more delicate touch, but Lindrum, who is almost
as daintv in his nursing of the balls, has the more
resourceful methods of bringing them into close
control. A match for money, between these two, on
the Englishman’s own terms, would be an attractive
gamble. Reece is understood to be willing to take
Lindrum on if he will l’mit himself to 75 consecu-
tive hazards off the red. The awful deadliness of
the “Grav stroke” is confessed in the fact that the
second-best exponent could be required to abandon
it fwith a chance of recovering position in the same
break), after scoring 225 off it.
* * * *
John Bull’s tennis-community have drawn
first blood by vanquishing the French team in the
dispute or clamor for the Davis Cup, at present in
possession of Australasia. England will now settle
with George Washington’s land for the right to
assault this country at Melbourne in November.
* * * *
The patriots who follow the laudable pas-
time of pitching bullets into the eye of the cow’s
husband, have been somewhat better catered for in
the 53rd annual meeting of the N.S.W. .National Rifle
Association. An increase of £5lO brings the total
allurement up to £5750. The B and C series are
being specially catered for, and the result is an
unusual rush of young recruits, who have just quali-
fied for a jumn from the cadet squads to the ranks
of the Australian army.
* * * *
California (’America) Rugby Union has
notified the N.S.W. Union that there is a bundle of
dollar bills, equal to £2OOO, lying there to give a
visiting Australian team the time of its life as com-
pensation for the walloping of its existence. The
Australian team will be sorted out after the inter-
state matches between N.S.W. and Queensland next
month; and the prospect will, no doubt, stimulate
the Union Rugbyites vastly.
* * * *
The Australian game of hoofball is getting
ready for a high old time next month, when East
Fremantle (W.A.) will fall on N.S.W. on the 3rd;
and Geelong will fall on the battle-scarred host on
the 10th. What players the Ma State has left after
these two engagements will face Queensland on the
17th. There are other fixtures, but these are the
cream of the pan, and enough to go on with.
* * * *
The Manchester Guardian (May 27)
“understands” that cricketer Macartney is due for
matrimony on his return from Fogland, and will
afterwards transfer his averages and other belongings
to Colombo. As the “understanding” was probably
due to Macartney himself, it looks as if Australia
will soon be short of a scintillating bat.


Are You Able to TAKE
YOUR OWN PART?
*
m
or are you dependent upon the good nature of others
to help you out of a “scrape.”
Surely, you have sufficient self-respect to fit your-
self for the battle of life, so that you will not always
be brushed aside by whoever picks you out as a “sole
snap.”
There is no excuse for you to remain crude and
inefficient in the use of your means of self-defence,
which Nature has so richly endowed you with.
You can learn boxing in your own room.
I TEACH BOXING
POST
and teach it so thoroughly and interestingly that
you will make rapid progress and get endless enjoy-
ment out of such health-giving exercise.
The course consists of 32 lessons, each giving you
a thorough insight into an important move in Scien-
tific Boxing.
My pupils throughout the Commonwealth are now
getting this excellent tuition, and the extracts taken
from these letters, picked at random, show what
you are missing:—-
“I am getting on splendidly with the lessons
and find them very easy to do.”
J. O. H., Tenterfield, N.S.W.
“I think that the instructions are remarkably
explicit, and, with the aid of the diagrams and
photographs, very easily understood. Another
thing, if you happen to forget a move, it is so
easy to look up the lessons and refresh your
memory.”
N. K. C., Essendon, Vic.
My years of experience are now at your disposal to
make you a thorough, efficient, skilful boxer.
Surely, you are not so unmindful of your welfare as
to neglect to write for further information, and for my
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which will
be promptly forwarded you for the asking. Kindly
send 3d., to cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
24 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Make^
your
own
Cigarette
twice
asgooey
CIGARETTE
PAPER
B'E.ST at\& mtST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros l£? 255“ George SE Sydney
IF YOU LIKE DETECTIVE STORIES
you should not miss reading “The
Drawn Blind,” appearing in The Lone
Hand each month.
A
A
Q\t
Shell
The product of
one source only
More mites on •* Shell” than
on any other.
Its perfect purity —that's
the point l
HOW PILES
CAN BE CURED.
Piles can be cured easily, quickly and painlessly by a course
of treatment with Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills, following the
directions which are supplied free with each box. These Pills
help the system regain perfect health by removing the, cause of
the trouble, by eradicating all its symptoms, purifying the blood,
and by toning up the system. They are non-aperient and per-
fectly harmless. Thousands have been cured by their use.
Sold everywhere. Price, 3/- per box, post free. If nQt
obtainable locally, order direct from the Sole Proprietors:
ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
fh
MOST YOUNG MEN
and those who feel young, prefer occasion-
ally to have a touch of oddness about their
shoes, and that does not necessarily mean
freakish footwear, but just enough departure
from the monotonous and conventional to
arouse attention, and yet be refined and
dressy.
Rigney footwear is decidedly popular for
this very reason.
We’ve the finest assortment of men’s high-
srade footwear in the city.
This Shoe here shown is a Rigney special
—an exact reproduction of the up-to-date,
made-to-order styles; can be supplied in all
leathers —black or tan.
Postage 9d. extra.
"Write for a copy of our Catalogue.
ĥ
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
INCORPORATED 1863.
HOLDS regular sales of Wool, Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Furred Skins and Sundries, and makes liberal cash
advances on consignments in store awaiting sale;
securing Highest Market Rates for all Consignments entrusted
to it, and rendering returns promptly.
The Company makes Advances on Pastoral Properties and
Stock at current rates of interest, and acts generally as
Pastoral Banker and Agent.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Wheat Selling Charge » per cent.
Four Months’ Free Storage allowed in Sydney, if desired.
ħdf
L I EUR
»
fh
dfh
ĥ
TRENCH’S REMEDY FOR FITS AND EPILEPSY
CURES THE SEVEREST AND LONC-STANDINC CASES
Six Weeks’ Trial Treatment, Only FIFTEEN SHILLINGS, Carriage Paid
Mr. John Hinchy, Alfred St., North Botany, N.S.W.,
wrote:—“ It is with gratitude I write this testimonial. My
son was subject to fits for 16 years. I tried every known
remedy and all the doctors of repute in this city, but
without any success. I was advised to try Trench’s
Remedy, and from the first dose lie has not had the sign
of a fit, that is now four years last October. He can go
about anywhere; before we dared not let him out of our
sight. I have recommended the Remedy to several sufferers
from this terrible complaint, and with successful results.”
His Grace Archbishop Carr and Clergymen of all Denominations personally recommend Tronchls^Stomedy.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St^^|elbourne
VALUABLE BOOKLET
POST FREE
Send for it
a: once
Delay is
Dangerous
The Attention of every Cyclist
is called to the fact
Thai-
DUNLOP
TYRES
Are only Genuine
when they bear thb
TRADE.
ƒdh
MARK
r' • >=
• r
ii
• #•/
Y ':•!
% . .1 v*
/, •
Uneoualled for 1
Quality. Wear.
S 2. Price.
The Dunlop Rubber Co_
of Aus Ltd.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE PERTH*
BRLSBANE CHRISTCHURCH, N 2,
“J.M.” : Logan Campbell, who turned the
cards down recently at Auckland, had a sen-
sitive soul, if one may judge from the effects
of an evening’s entertainment in an Austra-
lian bush pub. On New Year’s night, 1839,
he struck Bathurst (N.S.W.), soon after his
arrival from Scotland. He put up at a
small hostelry where some of the boys were
giving the old year a send-off, and waving a
bottle over the ruins. Whether it was the
music, or the language, or the thuds of the
feet of the revellers (dancing pumps were
not fashionable thereabouts) is not clear.
The fact remains that Campbell’s mind was
so depressed that even the sight of the Mac-
quarie liiver couldn’t please him, and he
packed up for Maoriland. But for having
been kept awake that night at Bathurst he
might have made his fortune in N.S.W. in-
stead of M.L., and left a park or so to the
deserving gentle-folk of Sydney.
An Adelaidean writes :—
An old German hotelkeeper in Adelaide delivered
himself thus to me concerning civic festivities: “Can
you tell me who gets invitations to dose Mayor’s
palls? I have more as 40 years a ratebayer
been in the cidy of Adelaide, and I have never an
invitation received. I gone up to the Down Hall von
night to vatch dem guests gone in, and I see counter
yumpers all dressed up fine come up in dram-cars
and gone broudly up de stairs. And some of does
counter yumpers got dere names on my slate. Vy
don’t I got der inwitation? I bay my rates reglar
and I never get a shanse to go by der lunches or der
palls all the dime. One man told me it vas be-
cause I was bubliean. Veil, we had a bublican as
Mayor onst, and he not have inwited me nieder. My
durn ought to gum round in 40 years, but it ain’t
not come yet.” Now he is dead, and unless there
are dead mayors where he has gone, he will be left
in indignant suspense—through all eternity.


QUEENSLAND CLIMATE SEVERE.
“This climate is so severe with changes and
dampness that children easily contract colds and
croup, and I am never without a bottle of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy,” writes Mrs. L. J. F. Holt,
Denham Street, Rockhampton (Q.). “My children
have been so benefited by Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy that I have every cause to recommend it.
It always cures, and cures quickly.”*
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
ĥ
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
44 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM AND GOUT,
MUCKADILLA HOTEL,
QUEENSLAND HOT SPRINGS.
Site of Famous Bore, adjoining Railway Station.
Western line (10 hours from Toowoomba).
Wire or Write Manager, Muckadilla, Q.
Tariff £3 3s
ħ
Ever used Ayer’s Hair Vig-
or? Makes the hair soft,
smooth, rich, and greatly
promotes growth. Show for-
mula to your doctor. Does
not color.
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE” —
FamousSchcblcr Carburetor
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If vou want to ;ret more HORSE-
POWER from vonr Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
mm
■
Sip%
m
Mwgjl jp P
" ELM A.
THE TIME TO ORDER IS NOW.
IN YOUR INTEREST we ask you to write us now re your proposed soda fountain for next
summer.
For if you delay ordering until the rush of the new season begins, you will perhaps have to
wait before a suitable machine can be erected.
YOU NEED NOT TAKE DELIVERY UNTIL YOU REQUIRE IT.
The man who looks ahead is wise, but he that gets ahead of time is wiser still.
We import or manufacture, as the case demands, for in every instance we supply a plant
exactly suitable to the requirements of your business, and at 20 per cent, less cost than small
jobbers. WRITE AT ONCE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS OF OUR EASY TERMS.
Profit-MaKing Outfits for Hotels, Chemists,
Refreshment Rooms, from
£25.
To get the true fruit flavors use our highly concentrated True Fruit Juices.
TRUE FRUIT JUICES In large or small parcels. More Customers at Less Cost.
The Latest American Automatic Carbonators of Drawn Steel, Sheet Tin-Lined,
make crisp Soda-water at £d. per gallon without any attention from operator.
We have just installed the largest Soda Fountain in Australia, at the
Crystal Palace, for The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
We send our experienced man to erect without extra cost.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.
h
167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY .
TEN Special EDISON
AMBEROL RECORDS
Almost Free
with Every Purchase of an Amberol
Attachment for the Edison Gem Phonograph
Owners of Edison “Gem” Phonographs can now secure Combination At'acliments for the
playing of Edison Amberol Records, at a reduced price. The use of these Attachments
does not in any way lessen the reproducing powers of the machine, but broadens its scope
as an entertainer. If you equip your Phonograph with an Amberol Attachment you can
play both Amberol (four-minute) and Standard (two-minute) Records, and you can
instantly change from one to the other by a simple method.
Specially Reduced Prices.
The following reductions in the prices of Gem Combination Attachments are such as to
render it advisable for those whose machines are not equipped to remedy the deficiency
without delay.
Attachment (complete) 12/6
With 10 Special Amberol Records 20/6
With 10 Special Amberol Records, and new Mainspring 23/-
Tliink what the offer of these Special Amberol Records implies. It actually means that
you are getting 10 Records for 8/ —Records which, if they were obtainable at your
dealers, would cost 2/- each —or fl for the lot. These Records are confined exclusively to
this offer, and cannot be secured in any other way.
We are making this offer simply to acquaint “Gem” Phonograph owners with the advan-
tage of having the Amberol Attachment on their instruments, thereby doubling the enter-
tainment that tlie Phonograph will give at a slight additional cost, and at practically no
additional cost for the first Amberol Records they own.
Call on the Edison dealer nearest you to-day, and ask for the special folder, giving details
of this offer, also list of the Amberol Records, which cannot be obtained in any other way,
or write us direct for a free copy.
Do not Fail to Avail Yourself of this Splendid Offer.
Be Wise and Take Advantage of it to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364-372 Kent St., Sydney
Money is being raised in Melbourne to put some
sort of memorial atop of the grave of Professor
Beard, the musician who had such a rocky time of
it in Australia. His troubles in Victoria began when
he was injudiciously boomed by the R.O.’s on taking
charge of St. Patrick’s as conductor. Monsignor
Phelan wrote a sort of circular memoir of him,
parading his grand musical acquaintances, as a kind
of summons for Melbourne to bow humbly. This
stirred up such rancor that the Marshall Hall fol-
lowing studiously “cut” the newcomer’s orchestral
concerts. Yet he had a genuine eminence, gained
mainly at Birmingham. In Australia he made a verv
clever arrangement of “The Star Spangled Banner’’
for the United States fleet reception. The Admirals
declared they never heard such a thrilling version of
the old simplicity. “You made good,” said Sperry,
enthusiastically. The memorial will be put up at
Colombo, where the earth is red and the skies are
blue, and the vegetation is the maddest green on
record. The poor chap lies buried there.
Oswald Stoll, the managing director of London
Coliseum Syndicate, and about 2< other variety
theatres and halls, organised a “musical act” com-
petition at the Middlesex Theatre lately. In a fleet
of competitors the Kennedy family, of Australia, was
placed second. Pa Kennedy, who once had political
aspirations at Randwick, and got four votes or there-
abouts at a general election, still manages the little
eo., whose star these days is a flautist youngster.
By the way, Stoll, the promoter of the competition
aforementioned, got on to this planet via Melbourne,
46 years ago.
“Melb” interviews Willie .Clarkson, Super-Perru-
quier: “Interview me? Lor’ bless you, I’ve no story
to tell, as a man says in some pome. I defy you to
interview me. I won’t stop in my regular job. 1
just go on brushing this here wig on the block. A
beautiful lady’s wig, too. ‘More study! ’ I say like
the good old pros, especially when a lady actress comes
to me for a new wig. Oh, it’s thought. Who’s this
for? Ethel Irving, as tidy a lydy as ever scorched
the planks. Dear old Cholly Mathews had about as
much ’air as a billiard-ball. When he was making
up for Sarah Thorne’s company he was brushing his
nice Sir Charles Coldstream straw-color wig on a
block, when a chawbacon peeped in the window and
bolted frightened. Reminds me of Tom Thorne.
On his uppers? Lor’! And Ed Terry gawn! And
Grossmith gawn! When I made up pore Arthur
Cecil for Posket, in ‘Tlie Magistrate,’ he said: ‘Just
think —Terry refused this.’ But didn’t Ed git right on
with ‘Sweet Lavender’ ? I should think he did. Nervous
when I had to make up Sally Heartburn for the first
time. ‘Man!’ says she, ‘fear not!’ Says me: ‘Do
you spik Ingleese?’ ‘Do I!’ says she; ‘Here, look
slippy.’ You would have been amazed to see Srenery
Irving’s miserable old make-up box, and ricketty old
chair, with string round the legs. He gave me a
lovely easy-chair to set down on. ‘Well, I’m dashed!’
says I. Luck! Luck! Sticks to the old make-up
box and chair that stood him for “The Bells” when
he first knocked ’em. He showed me a little bit
of a rubbishy trinket he prized more than anything.
A little girl flung it down from the gallery when he
was acting ’Amlet. Then there’s Nell Terry! I
could write a bookful about her. She had an
’ammock, and would swing in it at the side-scene.
Ah, sweet Nelly! Yoo was never spy It. Always the
same genteel personage. Did they enact Shy lock in
a red wig in Shakspeare’s time? ’Pon my civvy, I
believe they did. Oh, wasn’t Irving a beauty!
That curl in front nothing but the most artistic taste
could conceive, though I say it. Lena Ashwell’s a
very, very nice lydy to make up, and could you desire
a nicerer than Lily Brayton? She might have the
tiniest little bit of a temper, with her little frown,
but never showed it to good old Clarkson. Before
she came under my ’ands I thought she would be
cross like Well, no matter. Oh! how can any
dame be cross with Clarkson ? He gleans the long
swathes of ’er ’air more gently than a young mother
handling her first babe. Ask who’s the lydies’ man?
Clarkson. Of course I like operating in real tresses
better than wigs, but, bless you, how do you know
t’other from which? See me build up a ned of ’air
like a cyclorama, where you can’t tell where the real
things end and the painted picture begins. Well,
I’m downright sorry I can’t give you an interview.
Hope you haven’t wasted all the morning."
“C. Ocknev”: That well-boomed “Australian” act-
ress, Tittell Brune, has decided to become an
American again. At least, she has arranged to ap-
pear at the Knickerbocker Theatre, N’Yark, in “An
Aztec Romance” —which sounds promising. The
worst I wish her is that she will get great profit in
her own country.
Annette Kellermann came to light recently in a
London music-hall (the Oxford) as a toe-dancing
water nymph, and a fairly good performer at that.
A critic wrote of her plucky achievement: “Toe-
dancing is an art which cannot be acquired without
a long period of strenuous practice, and one can
quite understand that Miss Annette Kellermann must
have worked very hard during the last two or three
years to have reached such a state of proficiency as
characterised her dancing in the idyll ‘Undine’.”
Previous Undines have been simply dancers, or merely
tank performers, but Annette is the versatile Undine
who raises a perspiration by dancing in pink flesh-
ings, ere putting herself into black ditto and doing
the diving act. She is billed as the Perfect Woman,
and, on the word of admiring mankind, she looks it.
The Australian female form divine seems to have
scored a double first in Cockney circles. Pansy
Montague, as La Milo, was the heroine of yesteryear,
and Annette Kellermann stands for the ideal healthy
girl up to date. Meanwhile, Australia remembers Miss
Finney in the tank at Rickards’s as a delightful young
thing.
“Theorbo”: A cable reports the death, at no small
age, of Ricordi, music publisher, of Milan, Italy. He
was a man of might in the musical world, and the
prizes he offered brought forth Mascagni’s “Caval-
leria Rusticana” and Leoncavallo’s “Pagliacci.” Also,
he was a soldier of a sort in his younger days. At
any rate, he was so anxious to fire a gun at Austria
on his country’s behalf, that he passed himself off
as his deceased elder brother (which was at least
more distinguished than marrying his deceased wife’s
sister), so that he might climb over the age limit and
enter the Piedmontese army in a strenuous period.
Whenever Italy and Austria met on their own the
martial Austrian brushed the Italian away, and told
him to run home to mother. Still Ricordi is said to
have done a few things. Plenty of individual Italians
did things. The trouble wasn’t with the simple Dago.
It was the bulk Dago that always failed. For a good
many years the bulk Dago has had no luek worth
mentioning.
For the next few months Sydney and Melbourne
will be flooded with the strains of the barcarolle
from “Tales of Hoffmann,” as they were flooded of
yore with the intermezzo from “Cavalleria Rusti-
cana.” Theatre orchestras, Dago musicians at the
restaurants, German bands in the streets, amateurs
in suburban villas—all of them will barcarolle till
a surfeited public pleads for mercy. And every pain-
ful repetition of the haunting melody will be a re-
minder of how differently Quinlan’s orchestra played
it.
“Hullo”: I am getting rather tired of the musical
comedy leg. As leg it is a junk of shapely and
solid meat; but there is nowadays so much of it
that the stage is beginning to look like a butcher’s
shop. In the last 36 musical plays that I’ve attended
there has not been one girl who left me in any
doubt as to whether she wore socks or stockings.
Usually she left me in no doubt as to the rest of her
attire. I yearn for a musical comedy—some day a
daring manager will produce it —in which there will
be at least one girl who, throughout the three acts,
will refrain from showing one inch of her leg above
her ankles. She needn’t be an important girl. The
girl on the prompt side of the back row of the guests
at the invariable ball would do. Her skirt would
not be slit up to the knee, and she would be hobbled
to prevent her, in a moment of forgetfulness, tapping
her male partner playfully on the shoulder with her
pointed toe. Probably the audience would grow
restive. The same display of tender and succulent
female leg is being adopted, with startling rapidity,
on the amateur stage. At a recent suburban per-
formance of a quite respectable comic opera, every
suburban amateur clamored to appear in tights. And
at a charity performance there was a careless
abandon of leg that revived the drooping spirits of
the usual charity audience. The only consolation is
that it is full-weight leg, unadulterated and un-
ashamed. It would be an economic crime to hide
such lights under a bushel of skirt.
“J.F.H.” : While the theatres are closed in London
on Sundays, the picture palaces are allowed to open,
on the understanding that the balance over expenses
goes to some charity or other. The “charity” seems
to be mostly “other.” A return presented to the
County Council shows that the receipts at about 200
palaces on Sundays, for nine months, amounted to
£92,177, of which £15,247 was ostensibly handed
over to charities, though it wasn’t always possible to
find out the charity’s address. What a virtuous old
humbug Mrs. Bull-Grundy is !
By a man with pipe-stems in his hair
Governor Chelmsford, at a recent function, said
that he did not know what “the glad eye” was.
Well, if his Ex. can spare an hour one morning or
evening next week, I’ll show him. It lives princi-
pally in the smoking carriages on Sydney’s suburban
railways and trams, and is rapidly increasing in
numbers. Some of it is blue, some brown, some
green, some steel-grey. Many of it is round, a quan-
tity oval, a portion oblong. But all if it is becom-
ing too dashed glad. The only time it isn’t glad is
when it can’t find a corner in the smoking car and
has to go in the ladies’ car, which is specially set
aside for it. Then it becomes a cold, sneering, don’t-
think-much-of-your-imitation-furs sort of eye. How-
ever, it doesn’t go there often. Day after day and
night after night it rushes the smoker, where it can
give “the boys” a treat, and, as there is generally
only one smoker, ordinary coves and blokes have to
ride in the ladies’ cars, where the regulations pre-
vent them smoking. There’s a kick coming, for
certain, and I’d like to show Lord Chelmsford the
glad eye in its happiest hunting ground before it is
officially soolcd out. 1 promise not to deprive him
of his smoke altogether on the short journey we’ll
take. Hanging on behind while you have a few
whiffs is dead easy. I know, because I’ve been doing
it for months. When the rear buffer is overloaded
you hold on and run behind, with your pipe in your
mouth.
From America, concerning a matter which
a cable hinted at: —-
Just before his “translation,” Elijah Dowie, of
Zion City, imported some laceworkers from Notting-
ham (Eng.). Zion City wanted those laceworkers
badly, and for a while put up with their evil ways ;
but lately, being less dependent upon them than he
used to be, Lite’s successor, who is Australia’s fluent
old friend Voliva, ordered their arrest for smoking
in the streets. Smoking is a fracture of a law
enacted and made by Voliva, and provided with a
preamble which sets forth that the habit is “exceed-
ingly filthy and cannot be tolerated.” The arrests
were only ordered after other means, including
“laboring with the sinners in prayer and religious
songs,” had failed. In further proof of their
wickedness, the smokers refused to be arrested, and a
week of rioting between them and the Zion police
followed. The unregenerate imports ire quite will-
ing to take their stinkpots back to 1 ottingham, but
Yoliva’s followers won’t buy their property, and, if
they go, they will lose their houses, so they won’t
go and they won’t stop smoking. At the moment of
writing an appeal to the British Embassy is under
consideration, but there doesn’t seem to be much
chance of relief.


fhd


The Children’s proved
remedy is
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
“ Mummie, can I have my Scott’s now?”
Thus do the little ones learn to love
the emulsion that gives them stamina,
sturdiness and strength. Doctors
everywhere recommend Scott’s Emul-
sion. Nurses praise it. Mothers tell
how it made their children strong-
enabled them to overcome the many
ailments of childhood. These are a
few of hundreds of letters received.
COLDS—a mother’s proof
“ My son ivas subject to severe chest colds.
He obtained relief from the first dose oj
Scott’s Emulsion and the colds are now a
thing of the past. He looks the picture
of health and likes Scott’s Emulsion so
much. ” Mrs. L. G. Sheridan, 25 Bendigo
Street, Prahan, Victoria. 16.6.11.
TEETHING TROUBLES
"She suffered greatly while teething and
I was advised to give her Scott’s Emul-
sion. She improved wonderfully after
taking the contents of one bottle, and
instead of being restless and fretful,
she is now a bright, healthy child.”
Mrs. C. Hinds, 92, Church Street,
Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W. 23.6.11.
DELICATE CHILD
" Her health was completely wrecked. 1
gave her Scott’s Emulsion, and from the
commencement there was a wonderful im-
provement. She now looks quite a dif-
ferent child and is strong and in all ways
healthy.” Mrs. Margaret Fraser, 4,
Meagher Street, Sydney, N. S. W. 5.7.11.
This Trade Mark is your guarantee
of SCOTT quality, purity
and strength. Imitations
do bear this
mark.
It must
be Scott’s
Emulsion
and must
bear this
Trade Mark.
DR. HARTMANN’S
ANTINEURASTHIN
AND
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells
must be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in
the form of tonics or sedatives, which give temporary
relief, but cannot effect permanent improvement.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the ONLY known prepara-
tion containing an effective percentage of Lecithin
in an active organic state, completely assimilable,
and with its valuable principles undiminished in any
way.
A sample of Antineurasthin, together with a valu-
able treatise on Nervous Complaints, will be dis-
patched by return of mail, on receipt of twopence
in stamps, by the Wholesale Distributor for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, No. 3
Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane; or
branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellcrshaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland.
SERIAL, No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. GODDARD,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No 810. [1
Allcock’s
PLASTERS
For Coughs and Colds
put one on chest and
another between shoulder
blades. It breaks up the
congestion (the cause of
colds) before it can reach
the lungs.
’ *•
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion, ete.
Brand re th's Pills
ENTIRELY VEGETABLE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO.,
Birkenhead, ENGLAND.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged ’ and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these Qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
latest victory SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
bru™els RIZE SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
EXHIBITION, 1910 Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
ALCOCK & PIERCE’S
Auto. Pistol Catalogue
Shows you ig of the World’s! Best AUTOMATIC
PISTOLS. These, the most modern of small arms,
have by their simplicity and accuracy superteded
revolvers entirely.
You want a pistol—either as a weapon of defence or for sport,
m
m
The one shown is the gR O WIM IN G • 355 ca k s an ideal weapon for the man in
the back-blocks. Price, £,5/”|Q/- Civilian (.25 cal.) and Police (.32 cal.)
models, QQ[ _ each Other, makes from 25 /_
GET THE LIST.; NOW-IT’S WORTH LOOKING INTO.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 L. Collins Street
MELBOURNE.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the larsrest aad most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 94 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON"
dfhfhd
CHICAGO
ĥf ƒ
full Moustache ?
Grow a moustache
right away don’t
handicap your pro=
spects any longer.
OAPTTjLATiTN’R, the world-famed moustache grower, will give
grand, full, flowing moustache quicker than you ever expect. alas a
tion of 30 years’ success to back it up.
you a
reputa-
PRICE 10/0 JAR. Post Free
Send for our
Illustrated Price List.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER— worn at night—shapes
t’ne moustacl »e. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Kino: Don’t pass along again that old
ignorant stuff about “the British Tommy who fights
because he wants to, not because he has to.” The
first big war that Britain fought wholly on the
voluntary-service principle was that in the Crimea,
and it wasn’t much of a success. And don’t quote
the Boer as a fine sample of the untrained voluntary
soldier —he was a trained compulsory soldier. Fur-
thermore, if Australia’s big cities and principal
wealth were located inland (say about Bourke), after
the fashion of Pretoria and Johannesburg, it might
be worth while discussing Boer tactics. As matters
stand, they don’t apply to our case. No fleet could
attack Pretoria, which makes a big difference....
N. Peck: Don’t know whether to believe your state-
ment that the baby episode is true. Trying hard not
to E.G.T.: Jokes promptly Jack Johnsoned... .
M.C.C.: Yes; 2s Pat C.: No, it isn’t, any good.
No verse that insists on rhyming “time” and “line”
is any good A.P.8.: You are quite right—
“ Resurrection Morn” is not “composed with the true
poetic finish.” For instance:—
As a great volcano vomits,
So (rom the old Earth’s wounds,
Hunchbacks, idiots, maniacs
Arise from their gaping tombs.
....F. Nigel: Odgers on Libel Hilsea: Yes;
“Hillcrest,” Sutton Forest.... Frank Kyra: Interest-
ing, but out of this paper’s line....J.L. Packing
story hopeless. Other put aside for repairs and
second reading. .. .C.F.N.: It was posted back to you
on 2nd inst. . . .W.J.C.: So slight, that the critic’s
first breath whirled it straight into the basket....
T.R.: It drew a blank —a very blanlcety blank....
11. Gunn: The poem may trickle a little way down
this column: —
When I am in Rockhampton town
I watch the Fitzroy winding down
Towards the open sea
And as I stand beside its brink
These thought I cannot help but think
They always come to me.
Why is Rockhampton here at all?
Why are not you a townlet small
With just a cow and pig?
Instead of which you are a town
Your export trade brings you renown
It is so very big.
R.E.: Torpedoed, as requested... .F.8.E.: Don’t
on any account submerge another nib for us. The
poem forwarded will be sufficient for 10,000 years...
O. : Falls short John S.: Unsuitable
R.W’.R.: Don’t want to be harsh with you. It burnt
well. .. .N.W. (V.) : Verses have some grace, but are
not up to print mark. . . .Mrs. B.: No use to us, anc
we don’t observe its return passage gummed on it»
forehead. Pug yarn was declined. .. .J.C.R.: Poem
dashed to its d00m.... D. 8.: N 0... . Leafe: Fallen.
... .W.H.0.: You would have done better if you had
spent the postage in a tram ride to some breezy
hilltop. .. .A. J. Meteor: Sorry pilgrim -stuff unsuit-
able. No name or address on M 5.... Jack Farmer:
To your offer to “send two (2) jokes every week of
the type submitted,” we have nought to answer but
a resonant “Nothing doing” Atacamite: Too
wordy; see if you can’t put all of it that really mat-
ters into one-fourth the space.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
R.L.W.: Shameful parody of Walter Kirby returned
with great scoff... .Josh: We have a hazy idea that
it was either the picture that killed the verse or the
verse that slew the picture. Anyhow, either of them
might have got through without the other, and both
ruined each of them.... Edward R.: The railway
carriage looks more like a cathedral, and the people
look like nothing in particular. .. .Bert R. : The egg
joke has been done to death. At least it has been
done till the hen is dead.. .Mcßeath: You can always
make some kind of a picture if you draw two men,
and then you can state underneath that one man is
saying something to the other. If you like you can
show a Highlander in a kilt and a Bible, and a Red
Indian on the warpath with an axe and a scalp, and
state that one is remarking to the other that he
thinks it is likely to rain. But nobody cares very
much for that sort of art.
“ Jeames”; I write in great liaste and sor-
row, overwhelmed with emotion after get-
ting off a tram-car, and it is about a tree.
In 1868 the late Duke of Edinburgh visited
the St. Kilda (Vic.) bowling green and
planted the vegetable to commemorate him-
self. He did it amid great applause, and the
rejoicing of the bowling brotherhood was
like the beautiful feet of him on the moun-
tains who is the bearer of good tidings. But
a generation of bowlers arose which knew
not Alf Edinburgh, and as more space was
wanted the tree was cut down and used as
firewood, and its combustion was like the
crackling of burnt fools under the pot as
mentioned in the Book of Solomon. I also
observe that both trees planted by the
Duke’s nephews, Eddie and George (now the
V. of England), have vanished from the Bo-
tanical Gardens, otherwise nothing might
have been said. The St. Kilda Bowling Club
members don’t look like Goths or Vandals
in their shirt sleeves down on their bended
knees, but there is a hint of anarchistic
practice about this razing of sacred trees
that demands exposure.
Speed the parting guest! Australia got
rid of 4044 colored brethren, temporarily,
anyhow, during 1911. The Chinaman pre-
dominated, his tally finishing at 2266. Next
in the joyous procession were 447 Japs, 422
Papuans, 398 Malays, 210 Hindus and Cin-
galese, and the category tailed off with a
motley crew of American Indians, Afghans,
Filipinos, Pacific Islanders, Syrians, Timor-
ese, etc. Unfortunately, there was also an
inward tide of yellows, blacks and tans. In
the course of the year, the number of colored
aliens who were admitted to White Australia
without being asked to pass the language
test, to say nothing of the others, was 3663.
They included 2009 Chinkies (who were,
allegedly, coming home in most cases), 479
Malays (nearly all pearlers), 459 Jans
(ditto), 188 Hindus (not pearlers), 104
Syrians (ditto). 139 Timorese (few pearl-
ers), some North American Indians, negroes.
West Indians, Afghans, Filipinos, .Tavanes-
and several other breeds, etc. Of the Eur o-
peans who were passed in without the test
were 124.061 British persons, 2517 Germans.
1384 Scandinavians, 1365 Italians, 1184 Aus-
trians, 1166 French, and a miscellaneous
representation of Europe.
From London: Pinero’s “Mind-the-Paint-Girl” must
be added to the long list of his recent failures. It
has been withdrawn from the Duke of York’s, and
one of the same man’s early pieces, “The Amazons,”
is to be revived in its stead. The Australian Marie
Lshr is to be in this, as she was in the other. “The
Amazons” is a piece that will stand a lot of reviv-
ing. Australia saw it when the Brough-Boucicault
co. was about at its best, and the memory of the
three maidens in trousers (Mrs. Brough was the
chief maiden in knickerbockers) hasn’t faded even
vet.


m
1
6. 4
yi/rz
73k
TWO-:
m
kk
IS®
riV
sr
►n
K
S«fcl »H
Jail
I
m
l Jt-
«U«(si
-1
mm
<£
Si
rm.
TfIKD
yV fibers <jf litQh Grade- Pianos
“The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
Beale High-grade Pianos are made throughout by the most ex-
perienced and competent artisans. They contain every feature that
is best in the great pianos of the world, together with patents of our
own, which make for better tone and durability.
What can be made as well by machinery we make by machinery,
thus avoiding unnecessary expense; but we nowhere sacrifice quality
to cheapness.
Their excellence of tone and elegance of design have only been
achieved by the utmost care being taken by us in the construction of
every detail.
A Special and noteworthy feature in our High-grade Pianos is
their wonderful durability. As a result of all the care in their manu-
acture we have produced an instrument that will withstand the
most severe climatic influences.
Our pianos have proved themselves throughout the length and
breadth of Australasia, and we have received testimonials from the
various States of the Commonwealth, giving the enthusiastic
opinions of users of Beale High-grade Pianos.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we shall be pleased to send post free on demand.
BEALE CO. LTD
MAKERS OF
BEA L E HIGH-GRADE PIA. N O S
“ The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.”
CARL V A D E R PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65., 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


12/6
N
Lady’s Black Open-face Key-
less Watch, jewelled, strong
works, dust-proof cases, accur-
ate, reliable, 12/6; higher
grade, 15/-
ml
17/6.
9ct. Gold Medal, set
with ruby or sapphire.
12/6
£B/10/-
18ct. Gold Brooch, set diamonds
and tourmalines.
10/-
9ct. Gold Bird and Spray Brooch,
pearl-set Bird.
£lO.
16ct. Gold
Necklace, set
diamonds.
£lO.
Set also pink
or green
tourmalines.
2#/-
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Keyless Lever
Timekeeper, full jewelled, non-magnetic
time spring, patent adjusted balance,
dust and water proof cases, accurate, re-
liable, 20/- Guaranteed one year’s free
repairs.
20-
THE GREAT JEWELLERY HOUSE.
A. SAUNDERS
Where the Variety is larger, the Selection more exclusive, the Quality higher,
and the Prices lower than any other Firm in all Australasia.
Write for our Free Jewellery Catalog—and see.
20/-
9ct. Gold Pendant,
set fine pearls and
amethyst.
£lO.
18ct. Gold, set
pure double - cut
diamonds.
17/6.
15ct. Gold, set
pure white
pearls.
£l5.
18ct. Gold 2-
heart Ring', set
pure double - cut
diamonds.
£5/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
diamonds and
rubies.
20/-
9ct. Gold Brooch, set pearls
and amethysts.
£B/10/-
15ct. Gold Brace-
let, set diamonds
and rubies or
sapphires.
8/6.
Solid Gold Ear-
rings, set pearls
and brilliants
15ct. Gold Brooch, set pearls and
tourmalines or peridots.
12/6.
Pet. Gold Seal Pendant,
«et amethyst or topaz.
257-
Solid Gold Ear-
rings, set pearls
and color
stones.
A. SAUNDERS’ 1
HAPPY .
WEDDING RINGS.
r
9ct. Gold, 5/6
Oct. Gold. 10/-
HAND
MADE
OF THE
PUREST
COLD
9ct. Gold, 7/6
Isct. Gold, 13/-
IBct. Gold, 20/■
15ct. Gold, 25/■
18ct. Gold. 30/-
18ct. Gold, 40/-
IBct. Gold 20/-
WE PAY
POSTAGE
TO ANY
ADDRESS
lfict. Gold 40/-
18ct. Gold, 50/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
18ct. Gold, 40/-
807*817 GEORGE STREET,
, SYDNEY. A
18ct. Gold, set 4
diamonds and red
or blue stones.
We Pay
Postage
18ct. Gold, set 5
pure double - cut
diamonds.
£4/4/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch Brace-
let, jewelled, strong, reliable works. Extra jewelled
Lever Movement, £6/10/-, £7.
Oct. Gold Links; 15ct.
Gold, 40 /r . Initials
engraved free.
14ct. Gold-
filled Muff
Chain,
25/-
9ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
9ct. Gold Half-
round Plain Brace-
let, strong safety-
chain attached.
it
Lady’s Gold Open-faced Key-
less Watch, fancy dial, per-
fectly timed and adjusted,
£2.
Extra jewelled,
£2/10/-, £3. Guaranteed
two years free repairs.
£2
50/-
15ct. Gold Spray Brooch, set pure
white pearls.
25/-
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, amethyst
centre. 16ct Gold, £2.
£7/10/-
18ct. Gold Dia-
mond Oldster
Ring.
£3.
18ct. Gold, set
pure double - cut
diamonds.
£4/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
diamonds and
ruby.
21/-
15ct. Gold, set green tourmalines
or rubies.
£ll/10/-
£ll/10/-
Set also pink
15ct. Gold
or green
Necklace, set
tourmalines.
diamonds.
£6jloj-
Gent.’s Solid Gold Hunting Keyless Elgin
Lever Watch, Chronometer Balance, full
jewelled, dust and water proof cases, ac-
curate, reliable, £6/10/-. Solid Gold
Waltham Watch, £7/ 10/-, £B/10/-.
Guaranteed four to five years free repairs.
£6/10/-
.SYDNEY’S
LEADING
JEWELLER
SH
n
□
H
a
n
807. 809. f1u.'613. 615. aiT I _OEOBOE^_ST^OPPO^teßaiK| a rStatron2 M SVDN&>^ ;^^V
MITIi
silve:
I
o
TJ
|
»
(S
m
E.R
A
K
CUO
njj.


The Message of Sanatogen
No preparation of its kit 4 has ever achieved such
a reputation as Sanatogen.
Many causes have contributed to this unpre-
cedented result.
Pre-eminent among them is the constant prescrip-
tion of Sanatogen by the medical profession which,
as a body, has awarded it the highest praise. More
than fifteen thousand doctors have written in the
most enthusiastic terms to describe the benefits they
have obtained from the use of the preparation
which The Medical Press and Circular states “has
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundred-fold.”
Everyone knows now that it gives
To the Sick —Health
It does this by its power of revitalising the
nervous, vascular, muscular, and digestive systems,
which it rapidly restores from a condition of depression
to one of normal action. By virtue of its composition
—pure milk casein in chemical combination with
organic phosphorus, an essential constituent of the
brain and nervous system—it feeds the brain and
nerves, it improves the condition of the blood, it helps
the stomach to digest other food, and it thereby develops
and strengthens the muscles. In this way it gives
To the Weak —Strength
and that delightful feeling of returning vitality which
tells the sufferer that he has conquered the disease
which had conquered him, and is once more on the
road to health, and the possibility of taking up his
life again where he had laid it down.
Sanatogen, however, does even more than this.
It has its message for those whom disease has not
touched. Everyone is capable of increased vitality and
vigour. By feeding the vital centres Sanatogen gives
To the Healthy—Vigour
so that work becomes a pleasure, toil becomes enjoy-
ment, and the whole system takes on a feeling of
buoyancy, alertness and energy which is as delightful
as it is unusual.
Sanatogen’s merits have not only been eulogised
by the medical press, and by the medical profession,
but have also been endorsed by hundreds of the bes *
known men and women who have testified to the
cures it has wrought in their cases.
Sanatogen may be obtained from all chemists.
Write to-day for free descriptive booklet by Dr.
Andrew Wilson. Please mention this paper, and
address:
Messrs. A. WULFING 8 CO.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
x«^S»P
'
.
fcs
rv^
s
“ My Word—That s Fine!
Never thought it was so simple. First
time of using, too. That’s what I call
a real velvety shave ! ”
The Gillette Safety Razor is used by over 41-
million men because it gives a perfectly clean and
close shave with the greatest comfort. It is
the one razor that is adjustable to individual
needs—enabling it to shave a coarse beard
just as smoothly and easily as it does a
finer growth. The man with a
tender skin gets the smoothest
possible shave with the
Gillette; and it never
cuts his face.
o
Ns
!/
8
AA.
liiillllllllllltllllllH
riiiiiitiiiiiiiiiimninniiniin
lllllllHllllllillll
IllllllllllllltlllllllUllllllllil
3
r
§
j
&
h fh
NO STROPPING NO HONING
fh
This illustration shows the
Standard Gillette Set, in velvet-
lined morocco case, with 12
blades (24 cutting edges).
Combination Sets with Gillette
shaving soap and brush—ideal
for gifts and holiday use.
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere.
Write for
Illustrated
B o oklet
“Hints on Shaving” and “The Razor’s
Edge and How it Shaves,” sent post
free on application. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, LTD
40-44, Holborn Viaduct, London, E.C.
Works: Leicester, England.


The Brandy
of Purity and Flavor.
A REPUTATION, patiently and
laboriously built up during a
period of 200 years, is enshrined
in every bottle of Martell’s Brandy.
It is the finest Cognac made—because,
were it humanly possible to make a
finer, Martell’s would make it.
From the choicest grapes of the finest
wine-growing district of France—the
Charentes—-this noble, generous and
potently medicinal spirit is produced.
MODEL EE
5-Passenger Touring' Car —110-inch Wheelbase.
fh
“Tweniy-Five”
Touring Car and Roadster Models
f
Fully Equipped, 5 pass., 110-in. wheel base,
with Hood, Wind Screen, Gas Lamps and
Generator Long Stroke Motor, Three
Speeds, Enclosed Valves, Bosch Magneto.
Specifications and equipment are the same in Touring Car and Road-
ster Models, except that Roadster wheelbase is 86 inches.
2-Passenger, £230; 5-Passenger, £285.
A careful reading of equipment and construction details will impress upon
you its exceptional value at this price.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA i
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO. LTD.,
Lyric Theatre Buildings, SYDNEY. 186 Exhibition Street, MELBOURNE.
The success of the R-C-H in the export field has been as immediate as in the United States.
We are making shipments almost daily to the following countries: —
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, British Guiana, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Great Britain,
Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Philippine Islands, Porto Rico, Russia, South Africa,
Sweden.
Most of Australian territory has been placed, but there is still some very desirable
territory open in New South Waies and Victoria. We are closing same as rapidly as possible,
and invite correspondence from responsible persons along these lines.
GENERAL R-C-H SPECIFICATIONS.
MOTOR—Four cylinders, cast en bloc, 3iin. bore, sin. stroke, two bearing crankshaft. Timing
gears and valves enclosed. Three-point suspension. DRIVE —LEFT SIDE OR RIGHT SIDE, as
rules of the road may require. Irreversible worm gear, 16in. steering wheel. CONTROL —Centre
lever, ODerated through H plate, integral with universal joint housing immediately below.
SPRINGS —Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full elliptic and mounted on swivel seats. FRAME —
Pressed steel channel. AXLES —Front, I-beam, drop-forged; rear, semi-floating type. BODY —
English type, extra wide seats. Full equipment quoted above.
The Inky Way.
“Curse o’ Moses”: The “cocoa press” of England,
controlled in the Radical-Wowser interest by Cadbury,
who makes chocolate creams in the intervals between
addressing Christian Endeavor conferences and preach-
ing the Quaker doctrine of non-resistance, has made
a bid for top place in the newspaper world. By
combining the Daily News and Morning Leader, a
circulation of 600,000 copies is secured. The Daily
Mail has about 1,000,000, and the Daily Mirror
nearly 750,000, so the new amalgamation will place
the organ of the Nonconformist conscience third in
the field. London appears to be between Satan and
the deep fish-haunted sea in the matter of its daily
tripe. On the one hand is Cadbury, with a programme
of Wowserism, humility and radical reform, and on
the other Harms worth with Imperialistic shriek and
other signs of fatty degeneration of the heart. Despite
its quaint outlook the “cocoa press” looks the smarter.
“Vulcan”: The United States’ courts have decided
that even the short-story manufacturer has rights.
Years ago, one Harry Dam got a yarn into the Smart
Set. This was “lifted” later into a comedy by Paul
Armstrong, and produced with success by Kirk la
Shelle. Dam set out in legal pursuit of a share of the
profits, and, after seven years, has been awarded
them. Meanwhile, Dam became dead, likewise la
Shelle, and the cash reverts to Dam’s widow, Dorothy
Dorr, a more or less well-known Yankee mummeress.
“Scribe”: The proprietors of the Argus were dis-
closed by the prosecution for breach of the regula-
tion about signed articles during Commonwealth
elections. They are R. M. Smith, R. Murchison, E.
Fanning, L. C. Mackinnon, W. <3. L. Spowers and
E. F. Mitchell. Only six; and shouldn’t there be
Seven Sleepers? R. Murray Smith is the well-known
and crusty port-wine Tory, long a legislator, and
sometime Agent-General. Roderick Murchison, an ex-
bank manager, is of the auld bluid of the one who
wrote “Siluria,” and prophesied Australian gold. As
a boy I asked his dad, a squatter, about a sermon.
Said he: “Well it was out of Job, but I’m not well
up in mythology.” E. Fanning is a wealthy Melb.
merchant, with big interests in Newcastle coal; of
the time-honored firm of FAnning, Nankivell and
Co. Mackinnon is the well-seasoned Argus manager,
who followed a greater man in Hugh George.
Spowers is a scion of the original one. The Argus
was bought in a dull time, before the goldfields up-
heaved themselves, by E. Wilson and J. S. Johnson.
Afterwards Maclonnin I. and Spowers I. came in. The
latter was a member of Westgarth, Ross and Spowers.
E. F. Mitchell, K.C., is the valuable legal adviser, son
of W. 11. F. Mitchell, who was President of the
Legislative Council. So there’s lots of fat all
round. Mitchell, K.C., is. also adviser of the local
Anglican Church.
The back-blox rag may be poor, but it has a
proper pride. Recently the Mangaweka (M.L.)
Settler was stung on a raw place, and this is the
howl it applied to the wound: “Some of our local
readers will miss the report of the Oddfellows’ Ball,
which took place last Thursday evening, and wonder
why no report appeared in this issue. Well, in the
first place, it was not advertised ; secondly, the lodge
went out of its own town to get a price for its few
bobs’ worth of printing; and, thirdly, the usual cour-
tesy of a complimentary ticket to our reporter was
withheld. As we do not employ any almond-eyed
Celestials on our staff who can exist on rice or live
on the smell of an oil-rag, we draw the line at bol-
stering up any function which would, encourage the
sweating of employees and deprive them of a fair
service.”
“B. de D.”: English Notes and Queries is in the
midst of a discussion of the longest legitimate word
in the English language. “Honorificabilitudinity”
is several lengths ahead in the contest. The monster
is found in the recently-published “Letters of George
Borrow to the British and Foreign Bible Society.”
It is in a letter from one Joseph Jowett, dated
December 31. 1834. Jowett says: “The passion for
honorificabilitudinity is the vice of the Asiatic lan-
guages, which the Scripture translator, above all
others, ought to beware of countenancing.” No
doubt; but there are other vices of language and
Jowett. ought to have got a month’s hard, without
the option, for the one he was guilty of. I don’t
think the word is legitimate. The old-time row
about the intercolonialisation of the Murray waters
is long enough for me.
* * * *
The most restless newspaper in Maoriland, the
Wellington Times, has cut adrift from the wreckage
of the “Liberal party, and announces that it will
accord its general countenance and support to the
Un : ted Labor party. A section of the paper is set
aside daily as the official organ of Labor, and this
is under the control and editorship of Professor W. T.
Mills. The proprietors of the hitherto Government
mouthpiece (amongst whom are a number of Liberals
of more or less tonnage) apparently hear the time
getting ripe for the dominance of Labor in politics,
and have decided to be on hand early with the basket,
Of course, they don’t put it that way. Instead, they
say: “It is because we are convinced that individual-
ism. its true sense can best be conserved, and
social peace and national security best be promoted
by extending the advantages of each deserving citi-
zen, and curtailing the opportunities of those w o
would monopolise the means of life, that we dec de
Slve a ii reasonable assistance to the United \jo.
™°V l ?i Cnt ' IS -U T e highest national impoita
«?at the community should he organised for the: best
lunc * .T. ns ca ® not * ,e by asy
under which it is possible for one sect on t
and rich, and another section to be short ot neces-
saries and decencies.” Which is a round-about way
of telling “Liberalism” to get work,
* * * *
“Howard”: Having survived 17 years on Mel-
bourne Paunch as horse-racing and coursing expert,
A P- Morris has made a start in Sydney as COU rsing
scrib e on the Telegraph, under his long-familiar pen-
name of “ B ]akemere.” On Paunch, of course, his
light was hidden, but, prior to his servitude in that
of | he had a great innings on the late Nat Levi’s
EvBNING News. The News was printed on an
ancient contraption of Levi’s, which was a little
i arger than a sewing machine, and looked like a
reaper and binder. Also, it frequently jibbed in the
middle of an issue, delaying publication of the “First
Edit i on ”—there was only one edition—until the
herald’s last edition was on the streets. Yet its
sporting information actually won sufficient circula-
tfon to fe satisfy Nathaniel (for a time). R. Kelly
Maitland, for years past the V.A.T.C. handicapper,
“ did .. the track work at Caulfield for the News.
Morris did the Flemington gallops and all the race
meetings, and when he had tipped all six winners
an( ] nearly all the seconds and thirds at a Hunt Club
meeting at Flemington, Nathaniel reckoned the col-
iapse 0 f the Herald was nearer than ever.
# # *
„ , , _ __ . „ i •
The Ma State’s ex-Governor, Hercules Robinson,
afterwards Lord Rosmead, gave the late Justin
McCarthy his first lift out of the rut, and put him
in the wa -V of becoming an Irish M.P., and something of
a historian. Young McCarthy was at the time a reporter
Qn tbe Cork Examinel{; and his work got into the
f Robinson. That picturesque warrior (he was
t £ en a captain) was puS hing ahead, and had just got
a job ag a l commissioner to investigate the conditions
under which fairs and markets were conducted in Ire-
land_ when he arrived in Cork he wanted a short-
hand writer and he offered the billet to McCarthy,
at a guinea a day and travelling expenses. The re-
orter grabbed at it with both hands, and thus made
hig flrgt persona i acouaintance with real Irish condi-
tions, which impressed him deeply. Robinson was at that
time “a very handsome young man, with lustrous
e yes ; buovant animal spirits and a singularly attrac-
tive manner . We spent all our evenings together”
—McCarthy said years later—“evenings of laughter
and humorous anecdote and jest, retort and general
jollity. He had wonderful power of mimicry, _ and
could reproduce the voice, gestures and characteristics
of people wholly unlike himself.” Time after time
McCarthy told , the little group of Irish-Australian
M’s.P. in the Commons that he was going Out to
Australia soon: but the years spun round, and he
always found himself full of engagements in his own
country.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.
FINE ARTISTIC SILVERWARE is distinguished by rich
design materialised by skilled and experienced workmanship.
“ First Cost Prices' ’ bring these beautiful goods well within
the scope of a moderate income.
No. 0312—Silver-Plated Cake Stand,
50/-
No. 0256 —Finest English
Cut Crystal and Solid Silver
Water Jug,
i
No. 0318 —Finest Quality
Silver-plated Cut Glass But-
ter Dish,
No. 0311—Best Quality Silver-plated
Muffin Dish,
No. 0314 —Silver-plated Sauce Boat
6in. high,
PHI 1 1 1
Jiiuiiiiiimj
No. 0235 —S olid
Silver Serviette
Ring,
6/6,
0231 —Oxydised Sterling Silver Sweet
Tray. Size, 7in. x siin.,
No. 0381—Solid
Silver Serviette
Ring,
No, 0209 —Silver-plated Cigarette Box,
Cedar lined. Size, siin. x 3|in.
No. 033 5 Silver-p lat e d
Sugar Basin, with Sifter,
WE PAY POSTAGE.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSON 8 CO.
(Australia) LIMITED,
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/
/
v
\
i
/Personal
Magnetism
Do you want to make a success of life—to hold a
high positson at a big salary, to be one of the
most popular among society— to be able to influ-
ence the minds of others to your personal
advantage— to be wealthy, healthy and happy?
If you do, you not only OUGHT TO, but you
will WANT TO know everything about Per-
sonal Magnetism—the Higher form of Hypno-
tism. It is the Hypnotic or Magnetic Influence
of one person over another that has made
History names for such men as Napoleon,
Gladstone, Roosevelt, that has placed the
names of shrewd business men on the pinnacle
of fame—that has lifted many from the lowest
to the highest positions in the land. And this
same subtle influence can be acquired by
yourself—it can win success for YOU—it
can and will place wealth and happiness
wi'.hin YOUR reach. Our
52 Page Book Free
“Success and
How to Win it”
tells all about Hypnotism and Personal
Magnetism—how by this subtle unseen
power you are enabled to control men
and women, direct their thoughts, change
their desires, improve their talents, ban-
ish sickness, suffering and ill luck—how
to get all that is best out of life, and
leave disappointments, poverty, ill luck
and misery behind.
This Book is Free
WRITE TO-DAY
and secure the advantage of our spe-
cial offer to supply you with this book.
Don’t delay—grip the opportunity of
self-betterment NOW, start from to-
day along the high-road to sure
success.
A
1? 57
o
H
©
<® 0 <g> [tq siBS! o (te
DEPT.
87
The PLUM Razor 1016
HAS NO EQUAL!
That it pays to buy a perfect Razor like the
PLUM is proven by the great satisfaction this razor
gives each and every customer. The blade is fault-
lessly tempered. We guarantee to keep it in order
for two years free of charge.
The 0. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
nio-ht; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
7!r
fe.
Y*7
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG <a AITKEN,
654 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY,
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
L. R.w.
The
Silent
Empire.
TO purchase a Silent Empire is the
safest possible investment in Biographs.
There is absolutely no risk of its break-
ing down because it is built from the highest
quality materials by experienced mechanics
—is built for service.
IT IS SILENT
IN OPERATION, TOO,
Perfect alignment of working parte renders
easy manipulation. It is fitted with the
famous Maltese Cross, which means—
steady, clear pictures.
Fuller particulars free.
J e r d a n’s,
Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 George St.
roJShSSo,
Sydney.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you g;et the genuine with thp
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Don’t Trifle
with a Cough.
TAKE
ANgiek@mulsioh
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
There is positively nothing equal to Angier’s Emulsion
for coughs, bronchitis and all chest affections. Not only
does it heal and strengthen throat and lungs, but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion and builds up strength. For upwards
of twenty years Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by the
medical profession and used in the hospitals. It is the standard
approved remedy for coughs, bronchitis and all lung troubles.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL. Co.,
7 Barrack St., Sydney,
N.S.W.
THE “PIBRO” HAT
PLEASE SEND FOR
PRICE LIST, FREE.
Soft, Light, Comfortable and Conformable.
You can wear it any way at all—pinched,
telescoped or dented at will.
Fawn, Cuba 8 Light Greys
Band to Match
or Contrast.
Bound or Unbound.
12/6
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
ĥf
IN BANANA LAND
A good word for Western bore water, from
an unexpected quarter. President Eden, of
the Brisbane Dental Hospital, alleges that
where bore water is used for human consump-
tion, "the improvement in the condition of
the teeth is 100 per cent, better than in
towns where the bore water is not used.”
Last year a Bill was put through Parlia-
ment authorising the erection of more “cen-
tral” sugar mills by the State, and three
were promised for specific dates. Two were
to be ready for the 1913 crushing, one at
Babinda and the other at Darradgee; the
third, to be ready in 1914, was to serve the
Johnstone River, None of these mills has,
however, appeared on the horizon; and
when the trustful men who have gone ahead
and got ready to supply the promised mills
ask why, the Denham Government gives the
shuffling reply that it wants to be sure that
the Fisher Government will do nothing to
ruin the industry. It doesn’t explain why
the Government, led by Fisher, a Queens-
lander, should be suspected of wanting to
ruin this important Queensland industry;'
it just throws out the remark in a wild,
loose way, trusting no doubt that the in-
nuendo may do the Commonwealth and its
Labor Government a little damage. And
compared with the prospect of doing the
Commonwealth and its Labor Government
a little damage, the inconveniencing of a
few Queensland settlers doesn’t count at all.
“Don Q.” whistles for brakes: —
Brisbane, .like Melbourne and Sydney, is cursed
with a multitude of tinpot local bodies', but I’d be
overwhelmed with remorse to know one that could
make such a long-eared animal of itself as Belmont.
Some time ago it asked Tram-man Badger to extend
his co.’s service from Brisbane to its front door,
a distance of 41 miles. Badger wasn’t having
any; so the Railway Commissioner was urged to
extend the- suburban rails to meet requirements. The
R.C. examined the proposition and said it wouldn’t
pay for axle-grease. But the great and rising com-
munity of Belmont wouldn’t listen to reason, and
determined" to build a railway, (3ft. 6in, gauge) all
by itself. The State Treasurer, prompted bv the
Commissioner’s report, at first refused point'-biank
to lend a copper towards the ’scheme; but he was
finally prevailed upon to alter his mind. I refuse to say
that the fact that Belmont is in his electorate had
anything to do with the reversal of opinion. Having-
got that far, the question arose as to who should do
the construction work. One councillor had the
temerity to suggest that the Railway Commissioner
should he asked to accomplish the job. He
escaped with his life. The Council' decided
that the time was ripe to provide the Com-
missioner with a lesson in railway laying. It
estimated that £13,000 would be sufficient monev
for the purpose, but long before the rails had hove
in sight at Belmont the cash-box was empty. Once
more a frantic deputation howled on the doormat
of Treasurer Barnes, with a large bag and a request
for an additional £5OOO or so. The language
Barnes didn’t use would have been shocking- if he
had employed it. Before putting up any more cash
he asked the Railway Commissioner to investigate the
case. The R.C.’s second report was - enveloped in
flames Bft. high. He particularly wanted to know
why the blessed - Council paid £lBOO for an unsuit-
able locomotive, when a really good puff-puff coidd
have been purchased from his department for £l2OO.
Eventually he was asked by Barnes to keep his in-
furiated eye on the rest of the job. Belmont finished
its railway a month ago, and the Railway Department
is now running it at the expense of the Council. The
figures for the last four days of the month—the rail-
way opened on the 27th—have been published, and
this is how they read: Revenue,'£l 18s. Id. ; work-
ing expenses, £l3 Bs. ; deficit, £ll Bs. lid. And
now, anyone who requires an outsize in white ele-
phants will please apply to the Belmont Shire Coun-
cil. Elephants are its specialty, and the animal may
be had for a song, or even for a howl.
Right in the middle of Wragge’s “drought”
..the people of Augathella saw the Warrego
swell from a dying trickle to a stream 10
miles wide, and had to abandon the town
en masse. Anyone who has seen these West-
ern waters rise and spread would not be sur-
prised to hear of the entire disappear-
ance of a score or two Western townships
some wet season.
A 50-year old Courier notes that, at
Rockhampton, “the new church will be
opened by the Rev. E. Griffith” (father of
Chief Justice Samuel, by the way), and, “as
usual on such occasions, a grand tea-fuddle
will be held on Monday evening.” Tea-
fuddle! The delightful word had clean faded
out of remembrance.
Evidently the Queensland cocky is liable to
be as—call it short-sighted—as his brother in
the South. Giving evidence the other day, a
Brisbane produce merchant said that very
often tlie unfortunate farmer with the defec-
tive vision dropped all the little potatoes into
the bottom of the bag and topped up with the
big ones, “and I have known as much as
401 b. of soil to come in one bag.” The dis-
tress of the poor man when he discovered
that he had been sending his farm to market
must have been terrible.
INFANT DISABUNTIES.
KIND OLD PARTY: "And did you share the penny I-gave you with your little ‘brother?"
BILL (baby-minder, aged eight): “Lorlouyer, no , Mister. Why , me ole woman ’d kill me
if I teached a kid like 'em ter smoke!"
The Yellow Pup has had his July tail-wag-
ging in Brisbane. The Rev. Chairman
summed up this way:—
What Protestants wanted was one king, one fleet,
one flag, one Empire.
So one Christ is squeezed out of the Protes-
tant’s creed nowadays, it seems. Well, it is
just as well to know that the political Pro-
testant doesn’t profess to be a Christian.
In making, the recent “calls” to the Legis-
lative Council, the Denham crowd displayed
& m lr amount of the wisdom of the serpent.
Two, at least, of the five nominees had Sena-
torial aspirations for the next Federal elec-
tion, and threatened to make trouble if not
placated in some way. And while there js
a nominee House with a practically un-
limited membership, a way is always open.
In 1862 Blakeney, M.L.A., moved, as old
journals show, that “as the unrestricted
admission of Chinese is objectionable, it be
resolved that a Bill be introduced imposing a
capitation tax on all Chinese arriving in
this colony, unless accompanied by their
wives.” Blakeney’s motion only secured
four supporters, Air. R. Cribb remarking on
behalf of its opponents, that as a Freetrader,
he believed it to be restrictive And, as a
Freetrader, Cribb was logical—up to the
hilt. Freetrade in labor and Freetrade in
goods quite naturally go hand in hand.
About 70 years ago the earliest settlers on
the Darling Downs took up three stations—
Cecil Plains, Eton Yale and Jimbour. Jim-
bour homestead changed hands a few days
ago; and Cecil Plains is just about to be
subdivided for settlement. It takes 70 years
to get the monopolist to unclose his fist, and
he only does so then when rapped on the
knuckles by a land tax.
We are steadily learning what is British
and what isn’t. Gov. Macgregor, discoursing
to the Australian Dental Congress, said that
“a celebrated. explorer” in New Guinea was
accustomed to rush on a “boy” that offended
him and bite him, usually about the shoulder.
“That,” said Wee Mac, “was not British.”
Whether it was French or German or Danish
the congress wasn’t informed.
“Peck”: Young Macrossan threatens to be
Queensland’s newest disappointment. His
father died just early enough to make the
Northern State hungry for his brilliant son ;
but the brilliant son, though certainly the
brightest of the new men in the Assembly,
seems to give so much attention to his man-
ner and his pose that he hasn’t any time left
to devote to his matter. Everywhere it is
the same—he is an actor crying for the
limelight, cl you ! For this one thing it
is a pity Joe Lesina is not now in the House ;
for his absence will prevent the young man
receiving many a humiliation. And one
dram of humiliation might be worth more to
Inm at this stage than two bushels of ap-
plause.
“Morgana,” from the North:—
On I ownsville wharf., the other day, writer was
atti acted to two or three men who were haranguing
the captain of the Buteshire for passages “home.”
Inquiry revealed these men to be new-chums of a few
months’ standing ; and one of the wharf officials said
the same thing occurred with every “home” boat,
the men all had jobs, and had earned, as much money
in one week as they mostly could have earned in a
month in the Cold Land : but this simple fact stuck
out —they lacked sand, and the absence of this bind-
ing material* produced the home-sick feeling. A big
pei centage of the new arrivals have a hazy idea that
this country scatters prizes in the shape of sinecures,
with huge remuneration'' attached ; and when the im-
mutable truth breaks in on them that hard work is
the one easy thing on offer, their cheerv optimism
oozes out. They disrernember the good pav, and be-
come abusive, and write letters to the paper in the
oJd English town describing assisted immigration as
a huge Australian confidence trick. There aren’t
many of these folk, but they are very loud.
A Fleet in Kingdom Come.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the recent naval manoeuvres Lieutenant , in
a hydro-aeroplane, performed many remarkable feats,
and dropped a dummy bomb weighing 1001 b. almost
on to the King’s yacht. —News item.
They are building ships in the old Bull yard,
And a hundred dance upon the deep ;
There are big guns booming a bass “On Guard”
While a myriad echo upon the steep ;
But the master boat is a tight air-craft.
•Just hark how her engines hum !
She has dropped a bomb (how her pilot laughed !),
And a ship’s in Kingdom Gome.
Oh, the Dreadnoughts prowl o’er the Northern Sea
Just like a black-nosed band of prey;
And they belch out doom with a Titan glee
And scatter death o’er the pelting spray;
But —there sweeps a hawk from the distant blue,
And the thund'ring voice is dumb.
As a cry goes up from a stricken crew—
And a ship’s in Kingdom Come.
And so’t has been as the world goes round.
The old triremes have passed and gone ;
The old fleets sleep in a slumber sound,
And the doom of our own steals slowly on.
Our sea-bred power we proudly boast,
Our Empire’s circling drum;
There comes a swoop from a winged host
And a fleet’s in Kingdom Gome!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 13, 1912.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Last Monday Governor Macgregor for-
mally opened the Dental Congress, and for
a week we have been on unusually familiar
terms with the implements that make or
mar a banquet. On Thursday his Ex. en-
tertained the delegates their friends at
a garden party at the Fernberg Grounds,
the tea and snack being a feature of the
rose garden. There were no complaints.
On Sunday, the Macgregor, who has been
wrestling with the malaria fiend, leaves
for Frazer Island, where fishing and gun-
ning are expected to make a new Governor
of him. Chief Justice Samuel Griffith and
the Foxton aide go along to keep a tally of
the slaughtered.
Visiting dentists were given a reception
at the Boys’ Grammar School, the formal
hand of welcome being extended by Mr. and
Mrs. H. S. F. Moran. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson,
exquisitely gowned, as usual, and Lena
Hammond, in cream and silver, warbled in
a delectable manner. On Tuesday, the
Congress’s various wives and sisters were
tea-ed at the Golf Links, by Mrs. D. R.
Eden, Mrs. E. T. AVhite and others. On
Wednesday, Dr. and Mrs. White chartered
the launch Lucinda, and dosed the entire
Congress with ozone or something, in the
vicinity of the meat-works. Same evening,
all the feminine members of the congrega-
tion visited the Empire Theatre—the hus-
band element being very busy at the tooth
lectures —and, later, assimilated an oyster
or two at a restaurant, kept by a relative of
General Peanut, who is at present engaged
in wiping the dust out of his ear in Tripoli.
On Friday, Tom Welsby, M.L.A., placed
his yachting craft at the disposal of various
of the lady visitors. Other sailing men
followed suit, and a very happy afternoon
was spent on the river. Feasting and fid-
dling helped to push the evening on its way
to bedtime.
To-day there occurred the final and mos";
triumphal entertainment provided for the
toothsome week. At least, it should have
been that, blit it missed fire. A train left
for Nambour at 9 a.m.. and reached that
budding city at 12. For an hour the party
travelled by truck until the Maroochy River
was reached, thence by motor-boats to the
picnicking spot. When the party reached
the railway trucks again, en route to the
city, it was discovered that six of the expe-
dition .were missing. After a fruitless wait
of hours it was decided to push on to
Nambour, and there the noble truants were
discovered finishing dinner. It was a very
grumpy crowd that reached Brisbane at
11.30 p.m. instead of 7.30, as intended. I
did hear that the secretary had travelled
back on the cowcatcher, disguised in a boiled
hat and gum boots, but one hears so many
things in these spiteful days, my dear,.
Mrs. C. N. Johnson, of Chicago, and her
two daughters, who are visiting Australia
with C.N.J., a molar authority of tonnage
in Uncle Sam’s dominions, were prominent
at a theatre party the other evening. One
of the girls wore a quaint but entirely be-
coming small cap of pale pink ninon, with
little clusters of roses above each ear. Her
sister electrified an outdoor festivity, on
Wednesday, by appearing in a genuine old
beaver liat, such as the immortal Johnny
Walker sports op many an advertisement
hoarding. It suited her, but the chances
are 10 to one against any other woman look-
ins- well under a similar lid.
Two weddings happened last Wednesday,
both of which created a lot of interest. One
was that of Mr. P. L. Frankel to Miss Stella
Cohen, of Sydney, and was celebrated very
quietly at the Synagogue. The bride wore
a.beautiful gown of pale grey cr£pe de chine,
with some exquisite Irish guipure scattered
lavishly upon it. Her grey hat was laden
with white wheat-ears. After a wedding
breakfast at Escbenhagen’s, Mr. and Mrs.
F’-aukel departed for the Northern Rivers —
which are down south—by motor-car
Among the guests was Miss Linda Cohen, o f
Sydnev, frocked in stone grey eharmeuse, and
framed in some lovelv furs.
The other convocation mostly concerned
Lily Burstall and Eric Wilson. The lady
is the vpungest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Jaraqs Burstall, of Cooparoo, and the groom
hails from Charleville. The knot was tied
at St. John’s Cathedral, and the breakfast
broke loose at the bride’s home. The wed
ding garment was of the usual satin and
lace, and the moon is putting in an appear-
ance at the Tweed.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


i i
T'
—H
H
' ...
. ■ !■ ■ ■
0:
■
11 : ■ ; ■
: < Hi m Iran
~,
a* 1 wgm
i-v-i
il
Hi
■
.
§ii
..
fj;
■
,
:
:
■
A#
V'~
***■*
&f#l
.
-1
1&
■Mi
i|
f:
Nb.
5^
*1
HU
i
<■
JIIMMII
■
■rann
■i
llßilll
I | .. 1
■'■• I l'. ',
•'■-'ll
HH
Hi
«
■
. ; ■
.
Si-:";'' '''■■■: S
WBBBBBm
:1 , i 'I •
. ;
;
Ilf 1
■ m /
I ■
• . -
■
B
■
i a ■
HI mwmuiß
■ -
. Jm
lilill
\>\
li
The Whisky of
Uniform Excellence.
THE Epicure identifies* in Thorne’s Old Highland Malt every
attribute indispensable to perfect Whisky. Purity, quality,
mellowness and the unique Thorne flavor distinguish it as
readily as its distinctive bottle.
Throughout the 80 years of public approbation which have marked
the life of Thorne’s Whisky its excellence has been attested by the
steadily increasing adherence of men of taste.
Incomparable.
' if
mm
m


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN ana LONDON.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LQtTDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN k NATAL, £l3 13s„ £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT Sc SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide k Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers S Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
~ Rank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTII, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD. '
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)e«i
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . .. . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (81st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, E.sq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
BaRTOn, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and ail the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Burning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—-A\. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 mbnths. at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years arid over, at the rate of 4i per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
'Su;dd!t|S
N.D.U.
N ord D eutscher I_vloydi
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
Fares to London: 1., £66 ; 11., £3B/10/-; 111., £l5 to £l9
Fares to London: Return—l., £99; 11., £57/15/-;
111., £27, £34/4/-
Return Ticket available for Return via Cape of
Good Hope per Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Ist Class, £88; 2nd Class, £66.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from
Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea.
Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage? and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROAVN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
hƒ
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 ions, to sail about
July 31.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 11.
APEIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Sisrnallinsr Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
Londot 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Azents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
s.s. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
Tours to
* the Pacific Isles.
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in one of the
Burns, Philp Line of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from 21 to 52 days at a cost of from
to £25.
ƒfh
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
fh
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James B: .ck, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
DIRECTORS:
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard Edged)ff Ldidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office- 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 67,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World,
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Ihe Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£1,500,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . 1,500,000
Reserve Capital .. .. .. 1,500,000
£4,500,000
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq . . . . Chairman,
lion. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman. Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Sti’eet, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; lion. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£709,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ;
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budg'e Row, Gannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents Rnd Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial fljutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Garden ot the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO
UNITED STATES INLAND POINTS, also GREAT
BRITAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-WORLD
TOURS IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUEZ AND CAPE
LINES.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, August 10.
S.S. MOANA, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, October 5.
Sailing’s every 28 days.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at:
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Porr.s. 4
■S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons);.
August 3. Wireless.
Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
MACKAV
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports Norrh to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, July 20.
r S.S. Grantaln, July 27.
S.S. Innamincka, Aug 31.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companion
on all services subject to conditions, which can bo
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN!
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND'
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES,
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe-—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
f\s: f^;
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
* X.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 tons. T. PRISKE, Commander.
Will be despatched from: —
BRISBANE about July 20 | SYDNEY about July 27 :
Tht Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships..
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious ,
decks. Third-class pasengers supplied with fresh i
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage. ,
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light,
throughout. The superior third-class accommodation ,
is comprised of two-berth ( £2O) and four-berth
cabins (£18), situated on the main deck, amid-
ships.
*Fitted with Wireless.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape '
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. .. £4O. £lB to £2OV. >
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra..
To be followed by the
T.S.S. Somerset, leaving Sydney about August 201.
*T.S.S. Argyllshire, leaving Sydney about Sept.., 17.
For further information see Illustrated Books;,
Pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle.
ELDER. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide,
H, JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
I
South Sea
. .. and ...
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
•T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, AUGUST 13.
*T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, SEPT. 10.
*Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautolca, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence tq
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), *R.M. t.s.s. Tahiti, August 10. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.S.
Aorangi September 3, arriving Sydney, September 17.
There is also a service everv 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
ItAIATEA and TAHITI. *Talune, July 30 (Maheno,
from Sydney, July 24, connects.)
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli--
cation fo the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney. 7
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
FIRE. ACCIDENT, WORKMENS COM-
PENSATION. PUBLIC RISK. BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES'
at Lowest Rates.
THE Australian Magazine—THE .LONE;
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, GtU-
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs andt
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints. ;


George hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
Tohe HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South' Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
LONDON.
NOWHERE in London exists the
equivalent of this famous Family
Hotel, offering the atmosphere of
a refined English Home rather than
that of an hotel.
Its situation is healthy and plea-
sant, within a few minutes of the
city’s chief attractions by tubes,
motor-’buses, railways and taxi-cab
rank at the door.
Rooms, large, lofty and airy. Wide
corridors —-private suites (en famille) ,
including separate bathrooms. Every
thinkable modern convenience and
refined luxury. Most convenient for
visitors with interests in the City and
the Provinces, London’s five great
railway termini being within a few
minutes of the Hotel.
Telegrams, “Centellare,” London.
fh
Install
Atmos lite
Light
and increase a hun-
• dredfold the city com-
forts of lighting.
Cheapest to use. Bril-
liant white light. Suit-
able heating, cooking
and lighting. Non-
condensing, non - ex-
plosive, non-poisonous,
odorless. No trouble.
No extra insurance.
Write for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St Sydney.
Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
“EINSEED COMPOUND*' for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult oreathing.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
our Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy,
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
fh
4 CORRESPONDENT writes : “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
“Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
THE
PROOF of my CIGARS
IS IN THE SMOKING
Saßi
au*\,
BUYERS all over Australia and New Zealand, by their
repeat orders, testify to the good smoking qualities,
flavor, and aroma of my Cigars.
To convince yourself, send me an order for 100 of any
of the following:—
IMPERIALS 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 „
DIADEM AS 22/6
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6
INFANTAS 17/6
LEVUCAS 15/6 „
Smoke 5 or 6 of them, and, if you are not satisfied,
return the remainder to me, and
I WILL REFUND IN FULL THE AMOUNT PAID.
Remit amount with order, and I will deliver Cigars,
all charges paid, to any part of Australia. When order-
ing, state whether you like a mild, medium, or full
flavor. Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
fh
dfh
f
Note Your Notes with an ONOTO
-r» Take an Onoto Pen with you wherever you may be stationed.
[/ It will save you time and trouble and will make writing under any con-
-4 ditions possible and easy. It is-the pen that fills itself ami cannot leak.
Price from all stationers, Jewellers, etc., 12/- and upwards.
n British made and guaranteed by its makers.
Ask for the Special Service Model “0.” made to fit the Uniform pocket.
Onoto
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain q H I
Also ask for Onoto Ink —
- the best for all pens.
hfh
fh
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any addr&ss.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Thb Bull Kim]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Bwanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
:
tm
m
mmm.
■ m
mm
■
W i , i
»
& :
mm
m
4 * *>?
0
LUVrt
Mm
n7i
Every Lady Her Own Dressmaker
Simplified DRESS CUTTING & FITTING)
No persona] teaching needed. Save half
the COSt and yet hafe double the
number of better fitting new dresses.
Designing and cutting ladies’ and children’s
dresses and garments by measurement is
quite simple and easy With these/
Charts and Directions. You can follow
the latest fashions adapted to your own
taste and style, can reproduce any dostume
you admire and run no risk of seeing some- .
one else wearing a dress exactly like your I
own Complete Set of Five Chart® and Directions
on heavy plate papei mounted on canvas, pracncally un-
tearable, with 60-inch Tape measure, for only 3/S (half
the usual price) we pay postage ObtainaoTe only from|
The Umion Co., 299 Elisabeth St., Melbourne^
fh
AREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
m
An Exquisite Lotion forßeau-
iiig and giving-Tone and
aß *'" 'Brilliance to the Com-
k plexion. It is most
“ * beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendenc y to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfect!}' harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hair worker,
_ 23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale : DUEUDIN AND SAINSBURY. Melbourne.
• mmmm
2
WHt
mm
■,,v H
K-•/«'**
I
, 'A
Ml
m
L.
: I I
■V!
1 ’ ■! ** K
t 't, “HfF w
' I I ggfff!
SAVE 15 to 25% of FUEL
and reduce wear and tear on your Steam Plant
by installing a
WADHAM ECONOMISER
Contra-Flow Circulation System.
THE “WADHAM” works on the Contra-flow Circulation system,
increasing the efficiency 25 to 50 per cent, over the ordinary
parallel-flow type. It is the most up-to-date and successful
Economiser on the Market. Retains every valuable point of the ordin-
ary Standard Economiser, and in addition possesses a simple arrange-
ment of parts (patented) which give it the following important ad-
vantages :
I.—Largely increased efficiency over the ordinary Economiser in util-
ising heat from the Waste Gases.
2.—Fewer pipes required for the same output, and consequent reduced
first cost.
3.—A Perfect blowing-out arrangement for removing sludge, thus
maintaining a higher efficiency and saving cost of scaling and
upkeep. The “Wadham” is the only Economiser which works
efficiently with dirty water.
4. —Safety from explosions, owing to more perfect access of all sections
to the safety valve.
s.—Less sweating and deterioration—consequently longer life.
6.—Cheaper to erect and ship. Smaller space required.
CAN BE ADAPTED TO EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
Write for Particulars to REFERENCE TO USERS.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES-
HAES & EGGERS Ltd.,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.


DANCING.
Lessons —Morning, Afternoon and Evening.
MR. AND MRS. ROBERTS
quickly impart to their Pupils the necessary ability
and confidence to acquit themselves creditably in the
Ballroom, etc.
STRICTLY PRIVATE LESSONS (undivided atten-
tion). Perfect Waltzing, Reversing, etc., The Two-
Step, The One-Step, Valse, Boston, Veleta, etc.
160 PHILLIP STREET and ST. JAMES’S HALL.
HOW AND WHAT TO DANCE.
M EW ANI) COMPLETE BALLROOM GUIDE,
1 'I giving full and explicit description of the new
arid graceful dance, “The One-Step” (which is now so
ifhtnensely popular), and all the modern and fashion-
able dances. Price, 1/-; posted, 1/3 (stamps).
MR. and MRS. ROBERTS,
106 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SHIELDS. Important.
WILL WILLIAM SHIELDS, or anyone
knowing the whereabouts of William
Shields, who left home at Dargalong, near
Murchison (Victoria), about 3879-80, last
heard of by letter from Wyalong Goldfield,
N.S.W., about 1890-91, communicate imme-
diately with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COY. LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SCHRADER, Heinrich Carl —described as
a blacksmith, believed also to have been
a gardener near Ballarat, son of Carl
Schrader, of Melbourne, slater, and a nephew
of Hermann Heinrich Schrader, late of Vin-
race Street, Adelaide, gentleman, deceased.
Please communicate with Executor, Trustee
and Agency Company, Limited, Adelaide.
BERNARD SOB WALL, age 45, was in
Sydney about 18 months ago, employed
as Carpenter or Cabinet Maker. Please
communmute with Charles Wel-
lington, N.Z., or Police, Sidney.
FREDERICK WILSON.
[ F this should meet the eye of FREDERICK WIL-
* SON, formerly of Warborough, Mosman, Sydney,
he will hear of something greatly to his advantage
by communicating with Shipway and Berne, of 113
Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia —
Solicitors for his Brothers and Sisters, and for his
late Mother.
&5 O REWARD.
The ahovenamed FREDERICK WILSON left Syd-
ney in 1894, and was engaged in Farming pursuits
in Putara, near Eketahuna, New Zealand, up till
1902. We have just heard from a friend of his that
he was in Wellington, New Zealand, in 1907, and
in Ohakune, New Zealand, in April, 1908. If he is
dead, we will pay the above reward to the first
person who gives us satisfactory proof thereof. If
he is alive, we will pay the reward to the first
person who gives us such information as will lead
to his discovery bv us.
SHIPWAY & Berne, Solicitors,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Legal Notices.
IV the Estate of JOHN CARLYLE, late
of Middle Ridge, Toowoomba, in the
State of Queensland, deceased, intestate.
JAMES CARLYLE, the heir-at-law of the
ahovenamed John Carlyle, who died at Too-
woomba, on the 13th June, 1878, is re-
quested to communicate with the Curator of
Intestate Estates, Brisbane. As the said
James Carlyle is supposed to have lived in
the Normanton District, North Queensland,
in or before the year 1892, information as to
the present whereabouts of the said James
Carlyle, or of his death, is desired by the
Curator.
F. W. MOLE,
Deputy Curator of Intestate
Treasurv Buildings, Brisbane,
" 9th July,' 1912.
Government Advertisement.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 12th July, 1912
TENDERS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF
PIGEON HOLES FOR STORE ROOM,
CUSTOMS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
TENDERS will be received until noon on
MONDAY, JULY 22, 1912, for the
construction and fitting-up of three ranges
of Pigeon Holes in Store Room at the
Customs House, Sydney.
Drawings and specification may be seen at
the office of the Works Director for New
South Wales, Customs House (4tli Floor),
Sydney, to whom tenders, endorsed as above,
should be addressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 11th July, 1912.
KALGOORLIE-PORT AUGUSTA RAIL-
WAY. —TENDER FOR SUPPLY OF
PLANT AND TOOLS.
TENDERS will be received until noon
on WEDNESDAY, JULY 31, 1912, for
the supply and delivery of the undermen-
tioned Plant, in ship’s slings on trucks at
Port Augusia:—-
3 Portable Steel Rail Saws.
3 Plows, Champion.
20 Columbus Scoops.
6 Champion Wheel Scoops.
12 Buckscrapers.
12 Drays.
2 Road Machines.
2 Rail Bending Machines.
Platelayers’ Trolleys, Tools, etc s
Forms of tender, specification, conditions
of Contract and Plans, can be seen after the
16th day of July, 1912, at the office of the
Engineer-in-Chief, Commonweal li Railways
Construction Branch, corner Market Street
and Flinders Lane, Melbourne; at the office
of the Works Director, Customs House, Syd-
ney ; and at the offices of the Commonwealth
Public Service Inspectors at Adelaide, Bris-
bane and Hobart respectively.
The charge for each copy of the Specifica-
tion will be 5s., and for each Plan 7s. 6d.,
which must be paid before the documents can
be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed: “Tenders
Plant Tools, etc., Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta
Railway” ; to be addressed to: “The Secre-
tary, Department of Home Affairs, Mel-
bourne,” and be accompanied by the de-
posit mentioned in the form of tender.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Government Notices.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 6th July, 1912.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY: Tenders for Iron and
Steel Bridge work.
WITH reference to Tenders invited for
the manufacture and delivery of
Iron and Steel Bridgework for the Kalgoorlie
to Port Augusta Railway, it is notified that
the lime for receipt of Tenders at above
address has been extended to 21st August,
1912.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 4tli July, 1912.
KALGOORLIE-PORT AUGUSTA RAIL-
WAY—EARTH WAGGONS.
TIYENDERS, addressed to “The Secretary,
JL Department of Home Affairs, Mel-
bourne,” will be received until Noon on
Tuesday, 6th August, 1912, for the construc-
tion, delivery and erection at Port Augusta
of Forty (40) wooden framed side, and
Eight (8) end tipping Earth Waggons of
three (3) yards capacity, gauge 4ft. S^in.
Tenders to be accompanied by designs and
works specification.
Contractors to provide wheels and axles of
approved make.
; .The Successful Tenderer will be required,
within fourteen days after notice of accept-
ance of his tender, to deposit with the Minis-
ter, in cash, security representing 2 4 per
cent, on the total amount, and complete the
whole delivery within three months of same
date.
Tenders to be endorsed, “Tender for Earth
Waggons for Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta Rail-
way.”
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
'COMMONWEALTH QF AUSTRALIA^
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 9th July, 1912.
TENDERS FOR THE PURCHASE OF
STEAM LAUNCH “LORNA DOONE.”
rgTENDERS will be received until noon on
JL Monday, the 22nd instant, from per-
sons desiring to purchase the Launch “Lorna
Doone.”
The Launch may be inspected at the Pub-
lic Health Department’s Wharf at WooHoo-
mooloo Bay, between the hours of 2 and 5
p.m., from Monday next, the 15th instant,
until Saturday, the 20th instant.
Tenders to be endorsed as above, and ad-
dressed to the Works Director for New South
Wales, Department of Home Affairs, Cus-
toms House, Sydney.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, Bth July, 1912.
SEPARATE TENDERS will be received
until noon on Monday, the 22nd July,
1912, for the undermentioned works:—
(a) Erecting fencing and gates, repairs,
etc., at the SCHOOL OF MUS-
KETRY, RANDWICK RIFLE
RANGE.
(b) Construction of new Coal Store and
Additions to Wharf at SUBMARINE
DEPOT, CHOWDER BAY, SYD-
NEY. (Fresh tenders.)
Specifications and plans may be seen at
the Office of the Works Director for New
Sou 1 h Wales, Customs House (4tli floor),
Sydney, to whom tenders endorsed with the
name of the respective works should be ad-
dressed.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accented.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 9th July, 1912.
OFFERS will be received until noon on
Monday, the 22nd July, 1912, from
persons willing to Lease to the Commonwealth
Government, premises at KILLARA, New
South Wales, suitable for a Post Office and
Residence.
The accommodation required is as follows :
Office, with floor area of not less than 500
super feet, Counter fitted with three drawers
and cash bowls (with locks and keys), cup-
boards and flap. Three writing slopes,
posting box, and public telephone cabinet for
condnuous service, together with four rooms,
kitchen and usual conveniences.
Tenderers should state the annual rental,
including all rates and taxes.
Offers to be accompanied by sketch plan of
site, locality and building, showing sizes of
rooms and material of which building is con-
structed. and to be addressed +o the Works
Director for New South Wales, Customs
House, Sydney.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs.
Naval College, Jervis Bay.
July 11, 1912.
TENDERS will be received until 3 p.m.
on SATURDAY, AUGUST 17, 1912,
for the Supply and Erection of Structural
Ironwork for Work Shops to be erected at
the Naval College, Jervis Bay.
Plans and Specifications may be seen at
tffe Office of the Director-General of Works,
Home Affairs Office. Russell Street, Mel-
bourne; The Works Director, N.S.W., Cus-
toms House, 4th floor. Sydney ; and ’at j the
Resident Engineer’s Office, Court House,
Nowra.
Tenders, to be endorsed as above, and ad-
dressed (if by post, prepaid) to <he Resi-
dent Engineer, Naval College, Court House,
Nowra, N.S.W.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted. Tenders are to be in all
cases on the printed forms, which can be
obtained at the abovementioned office.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Amusements.
THE MARVELLOUS
STAL PALACE.
Direction : J. D. WILLIAMS.
NOW OPEN.
JOIN THE CROWDS OF DELIGHTED VISITORS.
SEE THE SPLENDID THEATRE DE LUXE.
HAVE TEA, AN ICE, OR GRILL IN THE BEAUTIFUL
WINTER GARDEN.
Great Fun in the Arcade of a Thousand Wonders.
Solve, if you can, the Miracle of
“THE SHADOW OF THE CROSS.”
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS CO. Ltd.,
PROPRIETORS.
I N Tl 5 It N V TIO N ALP IC TU It ES. COLONIAL
■ Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. H. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply,more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth ; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand; London, England;
Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-Lessee and Director : ALLEN DOONE.
ALLEN DOONE
and
THE WEARING OF THE GREEN.
EVERY EVENING,
HEAR DOONE’S NEW SONG HITS.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES 4/-, 2/6 and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS
THE WALDRONS, Comedy Team.
LYLA THOMPSON, Fascinating Comedienne.
ROGERS QUARTETTE, Athletic Entertainers.
THE WESTONS, Dutch Character Vocalists.
OLGA MONTEZ, Spanish Dancing.
BILLY WATSON, Funny Comic Singer.
HARRY SADLER, Australia’s Original Comedian.
NELLIE SEARLE. ANDERSON TRIO.
PRICES : 2/6, 2/-, 1/- and 6d. No Booking Fees
LJ UK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
** Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE QUINLAN GRAND OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, JULY 18, at 8 : LA BOHEME (Puccini).
FRIDAY, JULY 19, at 7: TRISTAN & ISOLDE (Wagner).
SATURDAY, JULY 20 (MATINEE), at 2 : THE PRODI-
GAL SON (Debussy), HANSEL AND GRETEL
(Humperdinck). SATURDAY EVENING at 8
TALES OF HOFFMANN (Offenbach).
X H E A T R E R O Y A E, SYDNEY.
1 Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON,
With their London Company and Original Production of
EDWARD KNOBLAUCH’S Arabian Knight,
KISM E T.
PRICES: Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls (booked), 7/6,
(atdoors), 6/-: Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, to 7.30 2/-, thereafter 1/-
ADE I, I> H I THEATRE. SYDN E Y.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45-
. GEORGE MARLOW LTD.’S
Most Popular and Sensational Melodrama of the Century,
THE BAD GIRL OF THE FAMILY.
Magnificently interpreted by this. Powerful
Combination of Favorite Dramatic Artists.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
"J - H E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
§ Y D N E Y G LAC I A K I UM.
HEAL IC E ~S KATI N G.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12 a.m. 3 to 5 p.m. 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATE HIRE—6d.
Children Admission—Morning and Afternoon only, 1/-
Saturday Morning : Admission—Children 6d.
Phone : 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
• Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OF CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES. 3d., 6d., Is.
THE IMPERIAL ROLLER RINK,
1 Foot of WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
in
ROLLER SICA TI NG.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Q LYMPIA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTI RES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE RETURN OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
A STRONG CAST OF FAVORITES.
Reappearance of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE QUAKER GIRL.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
c R Y
WALTER
BENT L E Y
M R
the Distinguished Actor.
ELOCUTION AND DRAMATIC ART.
554 George Street, Sydney.
ICKA R D S’ TIV OU THEATKk.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALEC HURLEY, English Coster Impersonator.
THE BROTHERS WEBB, Famous Musical Clowns.
CHARLES HERA, Celebrated Juggler and Equilibrist.
THE HANS PAXTON TROUPE, Five Ground Acrobats.
NIAGARA & FALLS, Comedy Acrobatic Duo.
CHARLES J. JOHNSON, Champion Cakewalk Dancer.
FRANK J. SYDNEY & CO., Specialty Jumping Act.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MEIBOMXE.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
THESPRIGHTLY SISTERS, Entertaining Sketch Artists.
RICH & RICH, the Real Racy Comedians.
MAX LAUBE, the Human Bird.
STAVORDALE QUINTET, Banjo & Harp Specialists.
FRED RUSSELL, the Great Ventriloquist.
HENRIETTE DE SERRIS, Presenting her Celebrated
Living Art Productions.
Plan at Allan’s. iW PRICES —35., 25., Is.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
■y HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
MAETERLINCK’S WORK OF GENIUS,
THE BLUE BIRD.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
KIN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Sole Direction : ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PLIMMER DENNISTON CO.
in
A WOMAN OF NO IMPORTANCE.
By OSCAR WILDE.
Prices 5/-, 3/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Director : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Charles Darrell's Thrilling Dramatic Sensation,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
EUGENIE DUGGAN as QUEENIE CARRUTHERS,
CYRIL MACKAY as DAVID ENGLEHART,
And William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation.
In Active Preparation, the Dramatic Sensation' of the
Present London Season, THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BIT.
Prices Popular : 35., 2s. & Is. Plans at Allan’s &The!Grand.
Melbourne repertory theatre.
Direction : GREGAN McMAHON.
At the ATIIENrEUM HALL, COLLINS STREET
THURSDAY, JULY 18—Arnold Bennett’s WHAT THE
PUBLIC WANTS.
SATURDAY, JULY 20 Anton Tcbekhov’s THE
SEAGULL.
TUESDAY, JULY 23—Louis Esson’s THE TIME IS
NOT YET RIPE.
BOX PLAN at Pianola Company, Collins Street.
Season Tickets at Reduced Prices now on sale.
OLYMPIA. O L Y M P I A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
U/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing:Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Ti-ie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Vny Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
| C E GLIDING.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
ICE HOCKEY
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING.
WATCH FOR
THE CRITIC.
Wagga Wagga Show.
OVER OVER
£l2OO PRIZE MONEY £l2OO
AUGUST 20, 21 and 22.
Entries—Food, Cookery, Fine Arts, etc., School
Work and Needlework—close JULY 29.
General Entries (except where otherwise speci-
fied), close MONDAY, AUGUST 5.
Entry Forms, Prize Lists, apply—
A. F. D.-WHITE, Secretary.
THE WONDERFUL WIZARD’S CARDS
¥
A Full Pack of 53
best quality round-corner
squeezers, which, besides
, playing any card game A
can be used to perform
f a dozen surprising
tricks. No sleight
of hand, ao palming;
the cards do the
tricks. You can sepa-
rate reds from blacks
blindfolded, cut pack at
any selected card, call
t card after card and draw
them as called, and many other amazing feats fully ex-
plained in Book of Directions. Price 3/o» carriage paid.
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in brackets are those at which the
books are supplied by booksellers in Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within Australia.
Across Australia. By BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A., F.R.5.,.
Professor of Biology in Melbourne
University; and F. .1- Gillen, Special
Magistrate and Sub-Protector of
Aborigines, South Australia. With
Colored and other Illustrations. In
2 vols. Bvo. 21s. net. (255.)
Principles of. Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON GRASBY,
F.L.S., Lecturer on Agriculture and
Fruit Growing, Perth Technical
School. Fully Illustrated. Crown
Bvo. 4s. 6d.
MILITARY TEXT-BOOKS.
New Vol.
An Outline of the Russo-Japanese
War, 1904, 1905. By COLONEL
CHARLES ROSS, D. 5.0.. P.S.C.
Yol. I. —Up to, and including the
Battle of Liao-Yang. With Maps.
Bvo. 10s. 6d. net. (12s. 6d.)
Morning Post : “A remarkably interesting
and scholarly account of the first few months
of the memorable war.... written in a style
which is at once-clear, concise and attractive.”
A Critical Exposition of Bergson’s
Philosophy. By .T. McIvELLAR
STEWART, 8.A.. D.Ph., Final Honor
Scholar in Philosophy, University
of Melbourne. Extra crown Bvo. ss.
net (65.).
MACMILLAN’S
COLONIAL LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6 each.
Cloth Boards, 3/6 each.
605. Pan’s Garden. A Volume of
Nature Stories. By ALGERNON
BLACKWOOD, Author of “The Cen-
taur,” etc. Illustrated by Graham
Robertson.
613. How ’Twas: Short Stories and
Small Travels. By STEPHEN
REYNOLDS. Author of “A Poor
Man’s House,” etc-
-611. The Sign. By Mrs. ROMILLY
FEDDEN (Katharine Waldo Doug-
las).
The Times: “The outer and the inner life of
that strange country (Brittany) of brutes and
mystics, is unfolded with delicate art; and the
novel, quietly and warmly written, has much
beauty of thought and feeling.”
608. Love Gilds the Scene and
Women Guide the Plot. By
AGNES and EGERTON CASTLE,
Authors of “The Secret Orchard,” etc.
Daily Chronicle : “Throughout the book it
is a series of wars of wits, firstly between the
sexes and then between the women. Rivalry
and gallantry keep the gentlemen and their
ladies busy indeed, out of all of which we be-
come vastly entertained.”
609. The Touchstone of Fortune.
By CHARLES MAJOR.
The Daily News and Leader: “Mr. Ma.i'or
assembles some excellent properties of conven-
tional romance, and uses them with great
skill.”
607. The Charwoman’s Daughter.
By JAMES STEPHENS.
The English Review: “There are, indeed,
so many good things in this first volume of
fiction by Mr. Stephens, which, by the way,
closes with an exultant hymn of characteristi-
cally bellicose optimism, that we are justified
in looking forward to still better work from
him in this direction.”
606. The Victories of Olivia, and
Other Stories. By EVELYN
SHARP, Author of “The Youngest
Girl in the School,” etc.
Punch : “We have long held that for a cer-
tain type of cnnte —brief, rather mordant, im-
pressionist studies of modern life —Miss Sharp
is without her equal.”
610. Van Cleve. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “Nathan Burke,”
etc.
612. The Friar of Wittenberg. By
WILLIAM STEARNS DAVIS, Au-
thor of “A Friend of Caesar,” etc.
*,* A Complete Catalogue of Macmil-
lan’s Colonial Library will be
sent on application.
MACMILLAN 8 CO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.
f
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ƒh
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Cirocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS <& CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ĥf
VICE-REGAL
ƒhf
HAIRDRESSERS
The Misses Isaacs, ° SYDNEY.
Transformations from £3/3/- Puffs. 5/6 set. Tails from 5/6-
Fringes from 5/6.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION. ’Phone 2138 Central.
K
ƒh
3
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN S’ CO.. P'ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
Cobber Mouth Organs
Fitted with sound-reflecting: Covers and Bell
Metal Reeds, give absolutely the loudest,
clearest and most musical tone of any Mouth
Organ. The covers are acoustically correct
in shape, and magnify the sound from the
only the ignorant buyer is misled as such
covers reduce the volume and interfere with
the free production of the tone. Only thor-
oughly seasoned material is used in the manu-
facture of Cobber Mouth Organs and their
reeds ae the Horn
increases the tone
of a Phonograph.
Many inferior
Mouth Organs are
fitted with fancy
shaped covers, but
COBB£^/PS
raE3 Eg
gs ga g*s wm g-g.
r-r;
durability therefore
can be relied on. We
guarantee to replace
any Cobber Mouth
Organ which is de-
fective in material
or manufacture.
No. 1. —The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case ... 37-
No. 2. —The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 2/-
No. 3. — The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
No. 4.— The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/“
JACKSON & MACDONALD, Australian Agents, DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY
A. E. BEAL, East St., Rockhampton, and 367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
WILES & CO., 7 Quadrant, Launceston ; G. W. RYAN, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne;
OPTICAL & PHOTO SUPPLIES CO., Hay St., Perth.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
bv Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventeu a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked- ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Rexophone
1
m
Bute Rexophone
THIS HANDSOME STRONGEY-
BUII/f INSTRUMENT is the most
wonderful value ever offered.
Model A SOUND BOX, Eoud
and Clear. MOTOR, Strong
and Substantial, plays twelve
inch record. Earge FEOWER
HORN, 16-inch Bell, Nickel-
plated Tapering Tone Arm.
Polished Walnut Finish Cabi-
net, 11 xll x SIA5 l A inches.
fh
fh
Is remarkable for the VOLUME,
BRILLIANCY and CLEARANCE
of its reproduction. REAL OAK
CABINET, 14% x 14% x 7 in.
Strong, Reliable MOTOR,
plays twelve inch record.
Large FLOWER HORN,
21-inch Bell. Nickel-plated
Tapering Tone Arm with
Swan Neck. REXOPIIONE
>■ SOUND BOX, Model B.
fh
NewKenf Rexophonel
Is a HIGH-CLASS SOUND RE-
PRODUCING INSTRUMENT
at a Moderate Price.
Polished OAK CABINET. 16 x
16 x 7 Y\ in. with hinge
lid. REXOPHONE
MOTOR, plays two 12 in.
records. Large FLOWER
HORN, 22% inch Bell.
Nickel-plated Tapering
*Tone Arm with Swan
Neck REXOHONE
SOUND BOX, Model C, with rubber back.
fh
The York Rexophone
HANDSOME, STRONG, RELI-
ABLE, WONDERFUL TONE.
Fine OAK CABINET, 16 x 16 x
7% in. with hinged
lid. REXOPHONE
MOTOR 12-inch Turn-
table, plays two 12-in.
records. Largest Size
Tapering Tone Arm
with Swan Neck,
24 inch FLOWER
iHORN. REX’PHONE
SOUND BOX. Model
C, with rubber back.
fh
fh
Richmond Rexophonej
POWERFUL DOUBLE
SPRING REXOPHONE
MOTOR, plays four 12-inch
records. 12-in. Turntable.
Handsome DARK OAK
CABINET, 16 x 16 x B'A
inches Large FLOWER
HORN. 26-inch Bell.
Largest size Tapering
Tone Arm with Swan
Neck. REXOPHONE
SOUND BOX, Model C,
with rubber back.
fh
hiiTgyTEi
Rex
Has the VOLUME and TONE of a
HORN TYPE INSTRUMENT,
with all the advantages of the
Cabinet Type. Fine OAK
CABINET, 15 x 13 x 7/4 inches
Double Doors. Strong, Reli-
able MOTOR, plays 12-in. re-
cord. Nickel-plated Tapering
Tone Arm. REXOPHONE
Model A SOUND BOX.
Ask for complete illustrated catalogue,
son & Macdonald, Druitt St., Sydney;
Rvan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne; Wills
7 Quadrant, Launceston; W. Cornell i
Grenfell St., Adelaide; Phonograph and
'"".vriter Co., Central Arcade, Perth.”
Jack-
G. W.
& Co.
is Son,
Type-
HIMRODS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to thebenefitshe
received from HIMROD S ASTHMA
POWDER, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever,
Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia. >
ASTHMA POWDER
Connoisseur’s Cigarette
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
G o fv « ft O
uO O O WN Q
Jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
Jj
f/li\\\V
T-v
v
□./MORRIS
&sonsL t p
LONDON E.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette.
Possesses a Fragrance of Unique Excellence
Price 5/- per 100, Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when ordering.
Owen Smyth, S.A.’s Superintendent of
Public Buildings, is in Queens I '.nd on a
mission to examine the timbers there, and
see whether schools in the Central State
couldn’t be run or jobbed or jerried up more
cheaply than at present. In the matter of
buildings, S.A. is easily the most solid por-
tion of this continent. Good stone always
was plentiful and cheap in Adelaide, and
thus a sort of local tradition lias grown up
that nobody except the dog should be ex-
pected to sleep in a wooden dwelling. To
occupy one is the next thing to having no
visible means of support. But in some
of the new townships it is an expensive job
to live up to the State’s traditions; hence
the almost-furtive proposal to give wood a
chance. Considering how scarce wood is be-
coming in Australia; and how it cracks and
blisters; and how the white ants eat it; and
how hot and combustible it is; and how it
warps under a hot sun; and how sidelong,
crooked, bow-legged, hump-backed and skew-
whiff’ it looks after it has warped ; and how
ugly it is when it wants painting—well,
S.A. should stick to its old traditions. If
this writer were king he would make wooden
buildings pay 800 per cent, extra rates, and
tax wooden fences fl per board per annum.


CALLS “CUTICURA”
BOOK TO HUMANITY
Leg Injured. Ulcerated and Blood-
Poisoning Set In. All Endeavor to
Alleviate Intense Agony of No
Avail. Cure Permanent, Dueto
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
"My right leg became ulcerated six years
ago when I was unfortunate enough to have
ft
a coil of barbed wire fall on
it from a ship’s sling at
Liverpool, on the 26th of
November, 1904, and it
caught me above the knee
and opened my leg to the
ankle. After a few weeks’
sojourn at the Hos-
pital, Liverpool, I came to
Australia and having no
ship’s surgeon on board,
blood poisoning set in. I
have been under many medical men in City
and suburbs and eventually for many months
was an inmate of one of our suburban hos-
pitals under highly skilled treatment and had
my leg scraped, but all of their kindness and
treatment to endeavour to alleviate my in-
tense agony was practically of no avail, until
I wrote (after seeing Cuticura Remedies
advertised) for a sample of Cuticura Oint-
ment. I continued purchasing and persever-
ing with Cuticura Ointment and Soap and
am thankful to be able to frankly state that
I now consider my cure permanent and due
only to your unrivalled preparations, which
are proved in my case to be a boon to human-
ity if persevered with. With deepest grati-
tude to Cuticura Remedies.” (Signed)
James Alfred Spilstead, 145 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney, N. S. W„ Dec. 19, 1910.
For more than a generation Cuticura Soap
and Ointment have afforded the most suc-
cessful treatment for skin and scalp troubles
of infants, children and adults. A single set
is often sufficient. Sold throughout the
world. A liberal sample of Cuticura Oint-
ment, with 3‘2-p. book on the skin, will be
sent free, on application to R. Towns & Co.,
Dept. 16K, Sydney, N. S. W.
6
E-s?
•C' i
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of—Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
The Army of
Constipation
Is Growing Smaller Every Day.
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS are
responsible—they not
only give relief—
they permanently
cure Constipation.
Millions use
them for
Biliousness,
fh
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Indigestion, Sick Headache, Sallow Skin,
SMALL PILL, SMALL DOSE, SMALL PRICE.
GENUINE must be*r Signature
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
fh
fh
fh
fh
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Orowfng Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Baldness, Dandrufi, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing t> of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at t>d.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our bs., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward, siy continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
fh
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. VYe are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, auu import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer, lie the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
BOND ST., SYDNEY.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
reuNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE, IS Waltham Building, 24 Bond St., Sydney.
fh
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALI
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
•m ertdf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
e ff ectu all y
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like af charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
g g
gg
I i
gg
II
gg
ii
II
II
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
"©IS
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
BENGER’S POOD Ltd , Otter Works. MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND.
EengeFs Food is sold in Tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere, <
ood
If the Terrible Trousers dance is repeated,
some women intend to profit by experience
and have pockets fitted in their garments.
One little lady, after the first great spree,
had to dredge two handkerchiefs, a metal
cloak check, a powder puff, and a programme
from ankle level. “I’ll have proper man’s
trouser pockets in my next pair,” she says.
Man, apparently, has reduced the placing of
his pockets to an exact science. The neces-
sity for putting a hand in them on Woman’s
behalf has been a great education.
Women’s clubs are increasing and flourish-
ing, despite the fact that they are not wel-
comed In city buildings. Before the Lyceum
people found their present quarters, they had
a most disconcerting hunt round town. They
would find and pounce on a likely flat, agree
upon rent and such things, and then, after
using up much time, would have their
dreams shattered. “Oh, a woman’s club!
Afraid we cannot permit it in these build-
ings. You see the office men downstairs
might object. Sorry, ladies!” And the
hunters would depart wondering why they
were so often awarded the cold shoulder.
What impudence it is of people to go on as
if a tony women’s club were equivalent to a
cage of parrakeets or monkeys! Perhaps
the reason of it all lies in the reflection of a
modern American cynic: “At the end of the
day, a man likes to shut up his desk, and go
home to his wife. And in the morning, ne
likes to shut up his wife and go back to his
desk.”
A lone, lorn Swinburne daughter pursues
and captures her art studies in Melbourne,
while father, mother and sister are wander-
ing in foreign places. The travelling M.P.
had a sorrowful experience during his
travels. He reached England, only to hear
of the death of his father —a fine old North-
umberland man and an engineer of note.
Adamson, of the Horse Bazaar, is a hand-
some young man with two very pretty grown-
up daughters. (Have you ever noticed how
daughters of that desirable type compel their
fortunate father to indulge in a second
youth?) The other day he took a month off,
and hurried away to Fiji with a nice girl
on either arm. They got back safely from
their jolly holiday in the land of rich uncles,
and the daughters’ complexions seem none
the worse.
Mrs. Armytage, the fine old mother and
grandmother of the clan, is threatened with
partial blindness ; but she has taken courage
and gone off by herself to Germany, to con-
sult Pagenstecher, of Wiesbaden. He is
very famous, yet there is an equally good
man in Melbourne; but distance lends en-
chantment to the view, as usual. Mr.
Armytage has big land sales to attend to
just now, and was unable to accompany his
wife. She is an energetic old dame, who
takes little account of her years, and knows,
through long experience, how to make her-
self comfortable when travelling. Pagens-
techer has a place which is a cross between
a boarding house and a hospital, and there
his patients can live with their people. But
patients and friends alike are bound by
armor-plated rules, one of which is that the
gate is shut at 10 o’clock. The imprisoned
never know how long they will be immured.
Two Melbourneites once went there, intend-
ing to stay three days. They emerged in
three months. Mrs. Henry Cornish is a
cured patient of the great specialist. The
pretty little lady once feared total blind-
ness ; but she still has a pair of bright and
serviceable brown eyes. In her case, a de-
voted husband shared the term of impris-
onment, and careered through town nightly
at anything to 10, in order to beat the
gatekeeper. He only failed once. And on
that occasion he had to seek shelter else-
where, for the spikes on the gate were long
and sharp, and the gatekeener refused in
High Dutch to get him a ladder on any con-
sideration. Presumably, the boss tyrant in-
side would have discharged him if he had
done anything of the sort.
Johnny Ford Paterson, who died the other
day, had some endearing ways. A day or
so before the end, when Dr. Buchanan was
called in, the artist-patient was at low ebb,
and had little breath to spare. But he smiled
engagingly at the sympathetic medicine man
and whispered, “So sorry, doctor, to trouble
you.” He was very proud of his clever
nephew, Louis Esson. and for months he had
been looking forward to seeing Esson’s new
comedy produced at the Repertory Theatre.
A Scotchman who dearly loved his adopted
Australia, the lovable man never became un-
Scotched in the smallest degree, and one
could always mentally see him wrapped to
the chin in a “plaidie.”
A temporarily wrecked engagement has
been towed off the rocks by the interested
couple—a well-gilded young shepherd and
sheepess. Their people’s flocks are shortly
to graze to an accompaniment of wedding
bells, and friends are now lingering outside
jewellers’ windows and wondering what they
can get for them in the way of presents.
Mrs. Guy Sherwood, now in Japan, is
vice-president of the Quamby Club, and
during her travels she has hung a number
of fine paintings in the rooms. The collec-
tion includes some Burne-Jones examples.
It appears that hubby Guy Sherwood claims
relationship with the painter.
Grand-opera Quinlan’s handsome wife does
not waste time when on tour. As secretary
to her husband, she works a solid six hours
every day, and attends the theatre every
night in her business capacity. She boxes
later in the evening with Mrs. James Col-
lins, who complains that, since her boy
arrived here, she has no identity except “Mr.
Quinlan’s mother.”
May Yale Gilfillan has been blowing up
her furnace lately and faithfully reproducing
gorgeous Queensland butterflies in lasting
enamel. A few people, at a studio party,
had the pleasure of gazing on her work, and
red dots fairly jumped amongst the exhibits
before the artist had a chance to get a fail
view of her own show. Ulysses—a particu-
larly beautiful Australian flutterer with
wings of turquoise and purple —is to make v,
hair-clip for a Bananalander’s wife.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.


Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
VVk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
For YOU and ME
There is Nothing to Equal
Solomon
Solution
Its Soothing, Healing Powers have been
proved beyond a shadow of doubt.
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, Sprains, Strains, etc,, all yield
to its irresistible potency. One jar will
convince you !
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
TSUI'S
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PH I S
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by aIT Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
fh
Vem/ngton
PUMP GUN
Solid Breech, hammer- gg
less. The only pump
gun made bottom ejecting
The big advantage of Un-
important feature is appar-
ent to every sportsman.
There is no opening at top,
sides, or rear—ONLY AT
BOTTOM of solid breech.
No dirt, rain or other for-
eign substance can reach
the working parts. The
solid breech also protects
the shooter’s eyes and face
from all possibility of in-
jury that might result
from defective shells,
etc.
Without question, the
safest and most depend-
able pump gun ever used
in the field.
\ FOR SALE BY ALL
> DEALERS.
Remington Arms—
Union Metallic
Cartridge Co.
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian
Representative,
r’.O. Box 459,
Melbourne;
1349, Sydney.
li
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” The “Stockport
Remedy ’ for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’
proven efiicacy.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
r c
Freehold and C.P. (Combined'), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any„fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Htrn. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L C. ; The Hon. F. 15. Winehcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox. Esq K C General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
A Business Safety Device.
/,I'iuunr
purchase®
Mat
=B^
il:
HjL
K
"SB?
CD
O
S 3
-0>
QD
It Protects Merchants
Against mistakes, carelessness
and loss in handling money.
Against forgetting to charge
goods sold on credit.
Against disputes and misunder-
standings which result in
lost customers.
Against paying out money
without a record.
Against mistakes in handling
customers’ accounts.
It Protects Assistants
Against unjust suspicion.
Against temptation.
Against mistakes of others.
Against forming careless habits
in handling money.
It Protects Customers
Against misunderstandings with
merchants and assistants.
Against mistakes in change.
Against being overcharged.
Against merchants and as-
sistants charging wrong
amounts to customer’s account
It Protects Servants and Messengers
Against suspicion of misrepresenting price paid for goods when
sent to the store.
Against being overcharged.
Against temptation to misrepresent price paid and keep difference.
NATIONAL CASH REGISTERS PROTECT
AND BENEFIT EVERYBODY.
The National Cash Register Company
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED
335 Pitt Street, Sydney
343 Queen Street, Brisbane
281 Murray Street, Perth
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide
Macquarie Street, Hobart
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Connell St.
BYONEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
CASTRATION
Oar Emascnlator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE —-MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years, igjfigr' EASY TO USE.
451-
Post Free Anywhere.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
fh
SHARPE & SHARPE
1 is bridge: street, Sydney.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it fully and explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off
them—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain !
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side of
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
9 Q
(V
A O v- }
-d
e o
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, it can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair.
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night, and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a |lank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mint register it.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE
WRITING (in ink)
by using: your own
Letter Paper,
Invoices, &c.,
with this
Book.
'NSC/ 200
PATENT ZanetiE
copying Book.
&
You simply insert
your writing paperin
the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by the
act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect, copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge to your communication.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which pro-
duces this result free, if stamped addressed envelope
sent, from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford Road,
Leicester, England.
One complete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin.
x Bin. letters, for 3/9 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
(Money Order, not P.O.’s.)
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.
A Guaranteed Remedy for all
descriptions of Piles, whether Blind,
Bleeding, Protruding or Itching— is
PETERS’ ■ ■
PILE CURE
Price 1/3 0 0 Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity), 5/-
i CONSIDER IT WONDERFUL.
Miss E. A. White, Burwood, writes: —
“Having been a great sufferer from Piles
I decided to try Peters’ Pile Cure
and am pleased to state with great suc-
cess. I consider it wonderful, and
wish I had known of it long before.”
Peters’ Pile Cure is Easy to
Apply.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wnolesaie Distributors for Australia.


Fishing Nets, Bird Nets and Rabbit Nets.
We are the Largest Makers of these Nats in Australia, and can supply you better than any other House.
Kindly note that a FEW DAYS’ NOTICE IS REQUIRED FOR FISHING and BIRD NETS.
When ordering, kindly send sufficient to Cover Carriage.
L
*0
//
Gridles 1
No. 16.
No. I.—Best Pishing Nets, well tanned, fitted ready for use, with Leads, Corks,
and Ropes ; any Mesh from t\ inch to 6 inch—
Depth ... 20 30 40 50 60 80 90 100 200yds. long
6ft 18/6 27/6 35/- 42/6 47/6 65/- 70/- 75/- 150/-each
Bft 21/- 30/- 37/6 47/6 55/- 70/- 75/- 85/- 155/-each
10ft 22/6 32/6 40/- 52/6 60/- 75/- 80/- 95/- 165/-each
12ft 25/- 37/6 42/6 57/6 65/- 105/- each
No. 4.—Best Prawn Nets, well Tanned, fitted Ready for Use, with Leads,
Corks, and Ropes; 1 i inch mesh —
Depth 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 yards long.
Oft 16/- 24/- 32/- 40/- 48/- 64/- 80/- each *
9ft 23/- 34/6 46/- 57/6 69/- 92/- 115/-each
12ft 28/- 42/- 56/- 70/- 84/- 112/- 140/-each
No. 15.—Parrot and Cockatoo Trappers’ Nets, complete for working—
-6 X 15 - 20/- eacn 0 x 20 25/- each
6 x 25 27/6 each 6 x 30 35/- each
12 x 30 42/6 each
No. 16.—Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, fitted, complete with Ropes, Pegs and Sticks.
(Clap or Ground Nets) as illustrated.
5 x 12 21/-each 5 x 15 25/-each
5 x 20 27/6 each 5 x 25 32 6 each
5 x 30 37/6 each
No. 17. —Bat Folding Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, for night use, fitted in long
handles. Size of net, 6x9 feet, 27/6 each.
No. 18.—Rabbit Nets, made from best duality Thread. Small, 5/6 doz., 6d.
each; Medium, 8/6 doz., 9d. each; Large- 11/- doz., 1/- each.
Best Hemp Rabbit Netting, 3ft. deep, 31in. mesh, 6d. per yd.
We can supply this netting in any length.
Write for a copy of our NEW EDITION ART FISHING TACKLE MAGAZINE-CATALOGUE.
Nothing like it ever before attempted. A REVELATION IN TACKLE CATALOGUES. Gratis and Post Free from
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Dired Importers and Sole Manufadurers of
the Renowned “Sure Catch” Fishing TacKle,
Sydney, N.S.W.
ARE YOU DETERMINED?
to get as much comfort as
possible in your riding?
Are you determined to get
the best value for your
money? If you are, make
up your mind to deal direct
with the manufacturer, and
write NOW for our New
Illustrated 800k —
Everything for the Horse <b>.
m
m
The Best for Horsemen ever issued in Australia. Only a Limited Number Printed.
EDWARD BUTLER & SONS LIMITED,
77.0 syaney soakers, 257 G eorge street, Sydney
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/0.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/" Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
HEALTH AND
STRENGTH SERIES,
fully illustrated: —Ring-
craft (by Jim Driscoll),
1/4; Swimming (Jappy
Wolfe), 1/4; Massage
and Training, 1/4; Prac-
tical Cricketer ' (Craw-
ford), 1/4; Scientific
Boxing (Tommy Burns),
3/3 ; Weight-Lifting (Sax-
on), 1/4; Lawn Tennis
(Ritchie), 1/4 ; Curative
Exercises for Indigestion,
1/4 ; for Constipation.
1/4; Correct Breathing.
1/4 ; Muscles of the
Body, 1/4 ; Way to Live
(Hackenschmidt), 3/3 ;
.Race Walking, 1/4; Run-
ning (Shrubb), 3/3;
WrestKng, 1/4 ; Science
of Wrestling (Hacken-
schmidt). 3/3.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous !
t
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illusti at ion). Com-
i’lbtb with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform if), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T wo - from - Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Piice Cd. ;
post free, Sd.
Tlie Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and nospecial skill), free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
PP-AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE .
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 « Grand Prize St Louis 1904
KAIODERHAB]
IB PREPARATIOnS
F. WOLFF & SOHli, Karlsruhe and London
KQloderma Jelly
prepared with glycerine Sc honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable &> efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knloderma Song
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening improving the sKin.
Kaloderma Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Uc/" jcT
Kaloflernw Stinging Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
fl refined luxury at a popular price. ucT Jef ' Jc/'
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
&
PRIZES VALUE JR3500
. . in the . . '*
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750
3rd Prize, value £250
2nd Prize, value £4OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Raglan,
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrir
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s Od posted. Riddle of the
Universe, 3d, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illns., is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Cd. How to
Make Love,’ Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDK(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldlfeads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, Od. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the llod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art ok Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases ok Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Tai giit, 1/3
How to Make Sweets, JAms and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, IsOd.
;
fill
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with tiie information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-fa®
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Ganjks (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s (id.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Spealting Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new). 4s fid.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science. 3s Cd. How Me Dougall Topped the Score, <£
Other Verses. 1 s 3d. Thro ay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wanxax's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s Gd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, ITeptameron, and many
othi rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All those prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established “So Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street* Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FRO/T THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Yest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
L.onnd, my price, IDs post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). ' Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric .Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


u
I
(
F
\
A
chool Days
School days should be days of health, happiness and steady development,
but to many delicate, sickly children they are days oi suffering. If
your children are weak and sickly, constantly retarded in their work and
growth by coughs and colds, they cannot study with profit, and they
cannot grow into healthy men and women. A cold in the head unfits
any child for lessons, and the constant cough of a child not only weakens
the one, but distracts the attention of all the others.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
is a safe and certain remedy for children’s winter ills, and has brought
health and strength to thousands of sickly children. It can be relied on
to check the cold so quickly that the rosy cheeks have no time to grow
pale, and the little brain remains clear and sensitive for the day’s study.
No coughing at night when Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has been taken
before bedtime, but deep, refreshing sleep to fit the children for another
day of school.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has become the Australian mother’s refuge
in relieving and curing Croup, Whooping Cough, Influenza and Bron-
chitis. SOLD EVERYWHERE IN TWO SIZES AT 1/6 & 3/-
D« Sheldons
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
j DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
H O L LOW AY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning =/ » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Toolangi.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE was obviously English, in his Har-
ris tweeds and stockings,
And his accent was of Oxford, and
his swagger and his style
Seemed to hint at halls baronial. He de-
spised the “demned Colonial” ;
But he praised the things of England with
a large and tooihful smile.
He’d discourse for hours together on old
England’s splendid weather;
On her flowers and fruits and fashions, and
her wild-fowl and her game.
At all Austral things he snorted; pinned his
faith to the imported.
And he said the land was rotten. But he
stayed here just the same.
Why he came or why he lingered he was
never keen to mention;
But he hinted at connections ’mid old Eng-
land’s nobly grand.
Seems he drew a vague remittance —some
folk said a meagre pittance—
And he sought to supplement it by a ven-
ture on the land.
So he journeyed to 'loolangi, where the
mountain ash yearns skyward,
And the messmate and the blue-gum grow to
quite abnormal size.
’Spite the “stately homes” he vaunted, ’twas
the simple life he wanted;
And he got it, good and plenty, at Toolangi
on the rise.
It appears he had a notion that his “breed-
ing” and his “culture”
Would assure him some position as a sort of
country squire;
And he built a little chalet in a pretty, fern-
clad valley,
And prepared to squire it nobly in imported
farm attire.
But the “breeding” is in bullocks that they
prize upon Toolangi,
Where the forelock-touching habit hasn’t
grown to any size.
And he found, as on he plodded, and the
natives curtly nodded,
That their “culture’s” agriculture at Too-
langi on the rise.
First he started poultry farming, as a mild,
genteel employment;
For the business promised profit, and the
labor wasn’t hard ;
But he wondered what the dickens was be-
coming of his chickens,
Till he found some English foxes prowling
’round his poultry yard.
So he cursed at things Australian, and in-
vested in an orchard
That adjoined his little holding; and fore-
saw a life of ease.
But a flock of English starlings—pretty,
“harmless” little darlings—
Ate his apples and his peaches as they
ripened on the trees.
Once again he cursed the coun ry, and fell
back on cabbage-growing—
He had heard of fortunes gathered while the
price was at the top;
So he started, quite forgetting to erect the
needful netting,
And some cheerful English rabbits finished
off his cabbage crop.
Then his language grew tremendous, and he
cursed at all the country;
Cursed its flora and its fauna, north and
south, from coast to coast:
Sat and cursed for hours together, at the
“demned colonial weather”;
Till an English snow-storm hit him just as
he was cursing most.
When the snow falls on Toolangi wise folk
look to beam and rafter,
For the fall is ofttimes heavy as upon the
roof it lies;
And it crushed the dainty chalet nestling in
the prettv valley.
In the little fern-clad valley at Toolangi on
the rise.
He was cursing yet, and loudly, as he
crawled from out the Wreckage;
Cursing as he packed his baggage and de-
parted for his club,
For his club down in the city. Vulgar folk
—it seems a pity—
Hinted meanly that his club-house was a
little back-street pub.
Now, away in far Toolangi, where the moun-
tain peaks yearn skyward.
Folk will droop the dexter eyelid and the
epse epitomise:
“Yes, ‘the Duke’ has gone for ever, British
pests were far too clever.
And the English climate crushed him at Too-
langi on the rise.”
Victoria.
DEN.
The Reincarnated Cabman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a clear, frosty night, and the cab-
horses on the rank shivered and
stamped under their rugs till the
gloom was full of the music of jingling bits
and ringing hoofs. Inside the cosy, well-lit
shelter, eight heavily-wrapped and unem-
ployed cabmen talked loudly together, and
laughed at a small, red-headed horse-chauf-
feur who appeared to be nursing a griev-
ance. Fragments of his story could be
heard from the other side of the street when-
ever the running fire of rough banter slack-
ened.
“An’ ten minutes after ’e ’ad engaged me,
’e says, ‘ ’Ere, fer Gossake take this ’arf
crown and get back ter th’ rank. That
there ’orse o’ yours gimme th’ creeps. I’ll
go an’ get a taxi,’ ’e says. An’ with that ’e
gets outer me cab. An’ I sez, ‘Orright, Mr.
Wilson,’ I sez, ‘you gotter please yerself,’ I
sez. ‘I bin drivin’ you fer a long time now,’
I sez ; ‘but I s’pose that don’t count no more.
That there ’orse uster go fast enuf for yer;
but ’e ain’t no gas ingin,’ I sez, ‘an’ I ain’t
goin’ ter treat ’im as such, not for no one.’
An’ with that I leaves ’im larfin’ on th’
kerbstone, and Comes back ’ere. Well, I ’ope
’e’s satisfied with ’is stinkin’ taxi!”
Out of the darkness came a friendly but
imperative hail. “Kwb wanted over at th’
station. ’Urry up, Jim, ol’ son!”
The small cabman broke away from the
group iu the shelter, ran along the stamping
line, cast loose the moorings of his ancient
craft, and steered it across to the station,
where he picked up a stout, full-bearded man
who had just arrived by a late country train.
“I want to go to 40 Blankly-street, Snarl-
ing Point,” boomed the fare through the
window. “Mrs. Tribbens’ place. D’ye
know it?”
“I know it, sir,” said the cabman. “I
druv Mr. Wilson there often.”
“Wilson,” repealed the fare importantly.
“I don’t know anyone of that name. At
least he wasn’t there when / w T as there—
I’ve been away a couple of months though.”
“ ’E’s been an’ gorn while you was away,
sir.” The cabman, who was of a gossipy
disposition, turned round in his seat and let
the reins hang slack. “I bleeve ’e only
stayed a week, sir. ’Ad a little difference
with th’ landlady erbout a lion wot ’e brought
’ome with 'im w’en ’e was tight, an’ fed over
th’ banisters with crayfish.... ’Ere! wot’s
up? You ain’t goiu’ ter get out, are yer?”
But the fare was already out and heading
straight for an unemployed policeman with
whom he almost immediately returned. “I
call your attention to the fact that this man
is not fit to be in charge of a cab. My name
is Bodger—John Bodger —and I’m not going
to risk my life”
“Oose arslcin' yer ter risk yer life?” burst
in the indignant cabman. “W’y ain’t I fit
ter be in charge? Wotcher gettin’ at?”
“He told me some nonsense about a per-
son taking home a lion in his cab !’’
“J never said nothin' of th’ hind! ’E
didn’t take it ’ome in me cab at all! ’E led
it ’ome thinkin’ it wuz a dog, it bein’ lost out
of the Zoo an’ ’im bein’ squiffy. It’s true, I
tell yer, an’ if yer’ll only git in and lemme
drive yer out to the ’ouse, yer’ll ’ear it for
yerself!”
There was a bewildered pause. Then:
“All right; I’ll let you drive me out.”
The stout Bodger was preparing to climb
aboard when the stolid policeman placed a
restraining hand on his arm, and asked
gravely: “Are you satisfied the man isn f t
drunk ?”
“I suppose so!”
“Very good, then. I’ll take no further
steps in the matter.” Bodger then climbed
in, grumbling in his beard, and the ancient
vehicle moved off, the driver cursing very
heartily under his breath and jogging the
reins.
When the watchful policeman had been
lost sight of, the cabman let the weary
animal choose its own pace, and turned
round to have it out with his traducer.
“ ’Ey! wotcher want ter go an’ do that fur?
You mighter got me inter trouble !”
The shadowy fare cleared his throat.
“Well, my man, I thought you said this Mr.
What’s-his-name had taken home a lion in
your cab. Naturally I concluded”— —
“That I wuz sliick !” interjected the driver
wrathfully. “An’ so off you goes an’ tells a
John that I’m not fit ter be in charge! Wot
right ’ave you got to go an’ get me inter
trouble? Wot ’ave I done ter you? Gors-
trooth, it’s ’ard enuf ter get a livin’ without
bein’ worried be Johns. You wanter be
careful, Mister !”
“No harm done!” boomed the shadow un-
easily.
“No thanks ter you!” retorted the driver.
“It’s th’ likes o’ you as makes it so ’ard fer
th’ likes of us”
“Confound it, man. are you going to keep
me here all night? Drive on, and let’s have
no more humbug !”
The cabman turned away sulkily, and
urged the decayed horse on its journey with
whip and reins. Thenceforward he occupied
himself agreeably in directing at the stum-
bling animal the fierce and bitter language
he would have liked to use towards his
passenger. It all cannoned off the horse on
to the passenger, who gradually became rest-
ive under the shower of insults. Just as 12
o’clock struck, and they reached a lonely,
ill-lit road, Bodger felt compelled to act.
“Hey!” he cried warningly. “Don’t you
talk like that! Your horse can get along
without all that blackguardly language!”
The cabman pulled up with a jerk and a
yell. “Well, if you ain’t the lurid limit!
First you try ter give a man in charge fer
nothin’, and then you won’t let ’im drive ’is
’orse ’is own way. You ain’t bought th’
bloomin’ cab, yer know !”
“I won’t stand any d d impudence!”
roared Bodger. “The first constable I see
I’ll give you in charge for insulting lan-
guage !”
“To an’ 'orse! Blimey, it’s a good thing
Johns is so scarce! You can’t pass a pleece-
man, you can’t, without givin’ someone in
charge!”
“That’ll do, now!”
“Oh, rats ! I’m not goin’ ter be rousted
on be th’ likes o’ you ! Ain’t you ever ’ad a
ride in a cab before, or wot’s wrong with
yer?”
“The very first constable I see ”
“Can’t you think o’ nothin’ else but
pleecemen? W’y don’t you ’ave one of yer
own like th’ bloomin’ Guvner?”’ ’
“I believe you’re drunk, after all, you
scoundrel!”
r “P’raps you are th’ bloomin’ Guvner!
You put on as much dog as a bloomin’ king!
Wot’s ’appened to yer moter-car that you’re
messin’ round in my cab?”
‘‘ IF ill—y o u—driv e —o n—sir ?’ ’
_ “Certainly, yer Excell’ncy—that is, pur-
vidin’ you let me drive in me own way!”
“Now, look here! I don’t want any more
of your d d impudence. If you don’t
drive on”
“GIT UP!” snarled the driver, slashing
suddenly with his whip. The cab started
off with such a jerk that the wrathful Bod-
ger nearly fell sideways into the road. They
rattled on for a quarter of a mile at a pace
that was almost merry. But, striking a long
patch of half-made road, the cab slowed
down. to a walk, and went rattling and
lurching over the stones. Bodger, who was
very tired after a long afternoon’s travel, fell
into a sort of half-doze in the swaying
vehicle. The stoppage of the elderly bath-
ing machine brought him back to full con-
sciousness. He found a rather thin and
shivering Mephistoplieles climbing in and
greeting him in friendly accents.
“Why, it’s Lempson,” cried the sleepy
passenger, extending a large hand. “Been
to some fancy dress foolery, haven’t you?”
“Glad to see you home again, Mr. Bod-
ger,” said the Devil, sitting down on the
opposite seat with a weary sigh. “I caught
sight of you as I was walking home from
(Continued on next page.)


Piles
A Man’s Terrible Martyrdom—Suffering Always—
Life was a Misery—Other Remedies Prove Useless.
'"Illlltl
Zam-Buk Is In-
valuable for
stiff neck, cold
pains In limbs,
Joints or back,
o h a p p e ti
hands, chit,
blains, eczema,
barcoo, piles,
cuts, bruises,
and all injured,
diseased con-
ditions of the
skin. Price 1/6,
or 3/6 family
pot (containing
nearly four
times 1/6), from
ai l chemists
and stores.
One of the greatest living
physicians, referring to piles,
says The pain is often so
intense that the patient feels
he can neither walk nor lie,
while in some cases the loss
of blood is so great as to con-
stitute a grave danger
The way in which piles yield to Zam-Buk
is nothing short of marvellous. The con-
centrated and wonderfully combined in-
gredients of which Zam-Buk is composed
take away the inflammation ; and the pain and
irritation, which at times almost amounts to
agony, is relieved the moment the healing balm
is applied.
Confirmation of this statement is furnished by Mr. J.
Abood, of Albion Street, Warwick, Q., who says:—
“Three years ago I suffered all the agony incidental to
piles. At times I would pass nearly half a cupful of blood,
and became so distressed that life was perfect misery. I
suffered all the time when either standing or lying down. I
tried all sorts of ways and means in my endeavor to rid
myself of this miserable complaint, but the many so-called
remedies I used proved fruitless. At last I thought I would
give Zam-Buk a trial, and from the very first application of
the balm I derived relief. The burning inflammation
gradually subsided and the terrible pains were subdued,
and ten days after the first applications of Zam-Buk I was
completely cured of the piles. I feel convinced I had as bad
an attack of piles as any of my acquaintances, some of whom were
troubled for years, and they were astonished at the speedy cure Zam-
Buk had effected in my case.
“ I cannot speak too highly in favor of this wonderful balm, and
will never be without a pot. It is now three years since Zam-Buk
brought me ease and comfort, in place of torture and distress, and as I
have not had the slightest symptoms of piles since, I feel quite satis-
fied the cure is permanent.”
Tamßuk
it SOOTHING AND healing."
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
GOT A COLD!
/ /^ r
/£
/
ss
%
1
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy is the most
prompt and effectual medicine in use for this j
Complaint. It acts on nature's plan, loosens :
the cough, relieves the lungs, opens the
secretions and aids nature to restore the system
to a healthy condition. J \
the cricket club’s fancy-dress affair. Some-
one got away with my overcoat, and I was
jolly glad when this cab overtook me. _ I
hope jrnu don’t mind me sharing it with
you?”
“Certainly not, my boy! Certainly not!"
The face of the cabman appeared at the
bars. “Drive on?” he asked sneeringly.
“Yes, of course!" shouted his ferocious
hirer.
“Or-right! Or-right!” mumbled the driver’,
and the cab wearily resumed its bumping.
But it had hardly done more than three
bumps when a loud, angry shout was heard
and a dead stoppage supervened.
“OOSE THAT ?” howled the cabman with-
out. “Leggo that there ’orse’s ’ead, will
yer?”
“SIIURRUP!” yelled the highwayman.
“ You’re dead! What d’yer mean by drivin’
yer ghost round this time o’ night?”
The cabman, who had been standing up
and peering wildly into the gloom, sat down
suddenly. “I mighter known ’oo it wuz!”
he, snarled.
“What have you stopped for?” bellowed
Bodger.
“Becos I carn’t ’elp it! ’E’s got the ’orse
be th’ ’ead !”
“Is lie a policeman?”
“Naw!”
“Well, dammit, if he won’t let go, give
him in charge!”
The cabman indulged in a wild, despair-
ing laugh. “Blimey, Whiskers, you’re
always thinkin’ o’ pleecemen! You bin talk-
in’ pleecemen an’ givin’ in charge ever since
we started!”
“You scoundrel! If you are not more re-
spectful I’ll take your number!”
“No good doin’ that,” hiccupped the
shadow at the horse’s head. “He hasn’t got
a number any more —he’s dead’s door nail!”
“W’y don’t yer give ’im in charge?” asked
the cabman jeeringly. “’lm or the ’orse?”
Bodger craned his neck out the window.
“Get away from that horse, you!” he roared.
A shadow slowly approached the door
of the cab. The dim interior light
showed the highwayman to be a well-dressed
person of large proportions. His face was
flushed, and his sleepy eyes had an angry
look in them. “Hullo, Father Chris’mus,”
he gurgled. “How long have you been dead?”
“My name,” announced Bodger fiercely;
“my name, sir, is Bodger, and I have engaged
this man”
“Stone dead!” breathed the large stranger,
catching hold of the rails on either side of
the door. “I ’sure you that I was last man
to ’gage him alive. It happened some c’n-
sider’ble time ago. He was drivin’ me ’long
somewhere or other when his d d old
horse burst into flames without any warnin’
’soever, an’ ’pletely c’nsumed itself an’ cab,
also cabman. I only got out just in time.
It made mos’ dreadful smell, an’ fire brigade
most ’bligingly drove me back to town.
What —what cem’t’ry you bound for?”
The cabman started to shout excitedly.
“ ’E’s torkin erbout th’ taxi! It muster
been burnt under ’im ! ’E left me ter go an’
git one o’ th’ stinkin’ things !”
“I didn’t!” cried Wilson, angrily. “I
won’t be contradict’ by ghost! I distinctly
saw you burnt!”
“It’s no good tr.vin’ ter tork sense !” wailed
the driver. “I know ’im! ’E won’t listen ter
nothing !”
Bodger took a hand. “I’m not going to
be kept up all night listening to nonsense !
Drive on, will you !”
The driver promptly hit the horse, and the
cab jolted forward. But Wilson hopped on
the step and insisted on climbing in. And
when at last he had stowed himself on the
seat next to Bodger, he dimly perceived
Lempson in his fiendish red costume sitting
opposite. After the first start of surprise,
he sat quiet for awhile, and took in the
situation. Then: “How’s Hell, ol’ man?”
“Warmer than I am!” replied Lempson
with a shiver.
Wilson gravely considered a moment.
“ ’Scuse me, but —are you with Chris’-
mus?”
Lempson guffawed. But Bodger thought
it was time to show that he would stand no
more nonsense. “I don’t know your name,
sir, but I would like to remind you that I
have engaged this cab”
“It’s a rotten cab,” interjected Wilson.
“It wasn’t much of a cab when it was real
and the horse and driver were alive. Now
it’s jus’ rotten !”
“I engaged this cab, sir, to go home in
quietly !"
“Yes, so used I! But it’s the sort of cab
you never could go home in—even before it
was burnt to ground.”
“I didn’t engage it to talk nonsense in,
and if you will only”
“But, my dear Chris’mus, that’s jus’ the
sort of cab it is! I mean it is just the sort
of cab it used to be before”-
“Oh, th’ blanky cab’s still ’ere!" Thus
the worn-out cabman.
“And I’m paying for it!” boomed Bodger.
“And while I’m doing that”
“You’re bein’ robbed!”
“While I’m doing that, I’ve got a right to
say who is to travel in it, and have things
done in a proper manner. Now, I’ve had a
great deal of trouble and annoyance since I
set out to-night in this conveyance. In the
first place, the driver very impudently told
me a cock-and-bull story about a boarder in
our establishment taking home a lion.”
“Hewmer ’im!” sneered the driver through
the bars. “Hewmer ’im! ’E don’t orften
buy cabs!”
“I’ll report you !” blustered Bodger.
“No, gimme in charge fer a change! I
ain’t been arrested fer a quarter of an hour.
Git up, yer long-bearded, top-hatted
swine !” (This last, of course, to the flag-
ging horse.)
Bodger swallowed his wrath, and resumed
with the sleepily-attentive Wilson. “In the
second place, you stop me to joke with my
driver” ——
“That’s rich, that is!” whined the cabman.
“Joke with th’ driver! liar, liar!"
“ To joke with my driver and ride in my
cab without introduction or invitation. Now,
I’m not the sort of man to stand on cere-
mony, but I’m not going to be humbugged
about. A joke’s a joke, but this is going too
far.”
“Why don’t you tell’m ter stop?”
“I don’t mean the cab, sir! Now, don’t
pretend that you misunderstand me!”
Wilson looked him straight in the eye and
said : “Been dead long yerself?”
Bodger stirred angrily, and muttered:
‘Tah! what can you expect of a man who
takes home lions!”
At this Wilson sprang to his feet with a
yell, crushed his hat against the roof, and
fell back in his seat with another yell. “It’s
a lie!” he thundered. “Who’s been tellin'
lies ’bout me?”
The cab pulled up guiltily.
“Ask your friend, the cabman,” suggested
Bodger stormily.
Wilson dashed at the window. “Did you
tell Chris’mus here I took home lions?”
The shrinking cabman whined: “Well, I
’eard as ’ow you took ’ome a lion and fed it
with crayfish over the banisters!”
“IT WAS A LIE !”
“I thort it was!” cried the cabman, eager
to placate the furious man. “Th’ minit I
’eard it I thort it wuz a lie ! It didn’t sound
like you, som’ow.”
“That’s why you told it to everyone, in-
cludin’ this ol’ pot!”
“/ didn't! I didn’t tell ’im nothin’ of tli’
sort, an’ if ’e says ’as I did, ’e’s a blanky
liar, that’s all!”
“You told me so distinctly!” shouted Bod-
ger.
“I DIDN’T !”
“Some cow muster told him !” proclaimed
the furious Wilson, whose rage was making
the cab rock on its springs. “I didn’t do it
’tall. I’d scorn to take lions home! It was
done by man called Thomson —man I don’t
like!”
“ That's th’ name!” shrieked the cabman
exultantly. “I re-member now !”
“Why don’t you ’member ’fore you libel a
man behind his back? What do you mean
by tellin’ this ole stiff ?”
The maddened roar of Bodger wrecked the
peace of the night. “I will not be insulted
in my own d d cab. GET OUT! What
do you mean by thrusting yourself”——
"You said 1 took home lions!"
“ Thrusting yourself into my cab”
(“’/$ cab, mind yer!”)
“ Into my cab and insulting me—a
man old enough to be your father !”
“I don’t care how old you are! You’re
dead now, anyhow !”
“BAH ! I don’t know why I argue with
you! Here! drive on!”
“Lor lumme, ain’t this where yer wanter
go? We bin standing ’ere fer th’ larst three
minits !” Bodger looked out in dismay and
found that it was indeed true. He and
Lempson thereupon disembarked, and drag-
ged his bag from under the cabman’s feet.
After a long and angry consultation in sub-
dued voices, certain moneys were passed over
and the dark transaction was closed with
surly good nights. The interior of the cab
maintained a thoughtful silence until Bodger
and Lempson had struggled inside a dark
gate and gained admission to a still darker
house.
Then the cabman turned hopelessly to the
bars, and said, “’Ey, wake up! Where am I
ter drive yer?” Getting no reply, he inserted
the thin end of his whip and stirred care-
fully, saying, “ Wake up an’ tell us where
I’m ter drive ter?”
And a drowsy voice said, “To the cem’try,
you ghost!”
Whereupon the driver cursed and drove
slowly away.
Now their way back to town lay past a
suburban cemetery, and the Jehus on the
rank do say that when the red-haired cab-
man was driving past it, Wilson woke up
and forced him to stop. Fortunately the
gate was locked, so the cab could not enter.
But they remained outside the place of
tombs and argued fiercely in spasms until
the chill wind of dawn revived Wilson’s de-
fective memory, and the thin light enabled
him to see that the outfit was solid. And,
when he got everything properly focussed,
he turned irritably to the frozen driver, and
asked in an amazed way, “Why th’ blazes
didn’t yer tell me so?”
KODAK.
Content.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ISIT by my window. I’m smoking
An ample and fragrant cigar
What time that the bullfrogs are croak-
ing
Outside, where the dampnesses are.
It is raining; but naught do I worry—
My vision contentedly roams,
Beholding pedestrians hurry,
Ungamped, to their far-away homes.
It is cold; but the tire blazes brightly.
And warms every nook of my room;
So I have good reason to lightly
Predict their all-probable doom:
The colds, with their wheezing and coughing,
Eucalypti, hot flannels and rums—
Ho! there, on the winter-swept offing,
A dripping-wet wayfarer comes!
No umbrella, no coat, no goloshes,
To keep out the cold and the wet,
As mud from the puddles he squashes—
His language a rich violet.
His teeth have a musical chatter;
Rain drips from the ends of his hair;
He’s maddened with rage. But what mat-
ter ?
I’m cosy; so why should I care?
He’s frightened to run, lest the greasy
Wet pavement should bring him to earth;
So, therefore, his onwardness easy
Provides me with marvellous mirffi.
Behold how each wind makes him shiver.
He dodges the scuds as they hiss.
While I thank the Omnipotent Giver
Who gives me such comfort as this.
Here comes a fat lady. Been shopping.
With lack of decorum she scoots —
Oh! hear the wet water slop-slopping
With rhythmical strains in her boots.
Like a sponge she is soaking and dripping;
Her back’s a disconsolate hunch.
While I’m in my studio sipping
My hot, incomparable punch.
And see how they fly, hither, thither!—
The slush their extremities laves.
How they halt, and skedaddle, and slither
With hair-raising speed on the paves!
Exceptionless, all of them sopping;
Unrelished by them is the joke—
While here with soft cushions I’m propping
Myself by the window to smoke.
However. I bear no resentment;
I’m satisfied iust as I am.
In cigar’d and hot whiskey’d contentment,
While those out of doors drench and damn.
Ho! ho! hear the rain! How it rattles!
Another cigar I shall get
And smoke as the multitude battles
In misery home through the wet.
n.s.w.
R. J. CASSIDY.


The
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
fh
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention
1 It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 Ihe oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being, all
the attention necessary.
FULL, PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
I Simplest and Most
| Reliable.
\fclves
F or
Steam, Air and Water.
Sole Agents,
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
If you require a Simple, Economical, Eeliable and Moderately-Priced
Car, it will repay you to investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylinder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPM
Sole Agents- Write f or Catalogue.
£175
Nett.
BROWN & KELLICAR LTD.,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and reliable remedy
for' treating diseases of ALL
mucous .membranes, such as
discharges from the nose,throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself?
Treatise with each bottle
or mailed on request.
The Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
I
Superior to
i INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
m Cures the same
f diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Caasale bears the name
fh
“DINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed .for Coughs and Colds.
Why be Miserable?
Providing you are the fortunate possessor of a Marshall Steam Engine
you will not know what worry means. If, on the other hand, you have
bought some type of engine just because it was cheap (?) —take our
advice and let somebody else have the misery.
fh
“SELL IT—arid BUY
A MARSHALL.”
Winners of over 500 Gold and Silver
Medals. All sizes in Portables, 2 to
35 H.P., i2o/i4olb. working pressure.
Traction Engines, 5 to 8 H.P., specially
designed for Australia. Horizontal and
vertical Stationary, Vertical Boilers, ioolb.
pressure; 2 to 12 H.P. Colonial Type Boilers • Oil Tractors for dry districts,
suitable for plowing, hauling, etc. Cash or Liberal Terms. Catalogues Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
HO Clarence Street, City.
wail
HU
m
WBm
©
iSlllil
fi-
ll Ml
1
§ tm
mm
zm
XV
MS!
■
CHANGE. OF ADDRESS. SPECIAL NOTICE^
ON and AFTER Jst JULY NEXT, the Business of
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
will be conducted at
THE BANKING HOUSE,
"•''“.WKi*'-
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FRED. MTcWILLIAM, Manager.
ichute, Bell & Co
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont. PRODUCE STORES-Athlone Piace.
£
as
-CARS
are both good to have, but some motor-cars are better than the
money they cost.
Many' arb .not —but that is another story.
If you invest in shares, you (sometimes) get a return in money.
If you invest in a Chalmers Car you always get a return in better
health , in pleasure , in a saving of time, in knowledge , and chiefly ,
increased happiness for yourself and those dear to you.
PO you NEEP MOST?
ROY W. SANDFORD Ltd.
181 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
106 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
3sp


architects specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC MOTORS
for MINES, FACTORIES and PRINTING WORKS.
CHEAPEST POWER SYSTEM IvXOW.Y.
Full particulars on application to Australian Agency :
T. K. STEANES,
SYDNEY
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cgment (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
. LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.'
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbesios.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected bv ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plas er.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES: WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and r.ataog L.to sole Importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
“TANGYE ”
Portable Type Oil Engine.
m
“ TANQYE ”
Suction Gas Producer Plant.
tjfi
5 ,1 TTA
m
“CLAYTON and
SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable Steam Engine.
DALGETY’S
Machinery Department
SYDNEY : Miller’s Point
MELBOURNE : a’Beckett Street
and at
BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON,
TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE
and FREMANTLE.
“TANGYE
Oil and Benzine Engines,
Engines and Suction Gas F
Steam Engines and Boilers, Irriga-
» O
tion Plants and PUMPS of all descriptions.
fh
MILKING MACHINES. All the
leading Dairvfarmers are installing
the “ GANE.” It is a highly fin-
ished machine and a wonderful Labor Saver.
“CLAYTON g SHUTTLEWORTH”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines,
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps, etc.
THE
••
e
MACH RES
LTD
CO
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for
B. F. STURTEVANT CO.
Multivane Fan.
This is the most efficient Commercial Fan in the world. Service tests, under the most
trying conditions, have proved conclusively that this fan will deliver a given amount of air
at a given pressure at an expenditure of considerably less power than other types. It
occupies less space, is correspondingly lighter, and can be built to run at the highest
speeds. We carry Stocks.
W RITE FOR CATALOGUE No. 18 0.
• -■
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores, Farms and Townships,
Tb« “PE LAITTE”
AIR-6AS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest Uluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.'V. Government and by the Railway
Commissioners of N.S.W. and Victoii i. Thousands
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large
Machines supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulai
McEUEN U CO., 5 Spring Street, Sydney.
NOYES
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd .
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George's Terrace,
PERTH.
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Building's, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
SUCTION
GAS PLANTS.
\ts
•Shearing
The LISTER Machine is the keynote to improvements
in Sheep=Shearing Machinery.
All Parts interchangeable with the Wolseley.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
I
THE “GUTHRIDG”
Garbage Destructor.
SMOKELESS EFFICIENT SIMPLE.
‘ T i '
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS. NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Manufactured by
I
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
5 'J
ai&lH
