

The EMBODIMENT OE PERFECTION
X£. 6. WATKINS «8E CO.,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
' EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
mwx i~ c?.JS$r
ACME
STONE BREAKERS.
Cubing notion—Large Output.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
3BC Q J=* A. ilF*. "X\
fiadieys Orient fjotel.
PIONEEf>
LEATHER BELTING •■V.
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Lei
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ertrytuyuyu
it back.
I must have
*
Kite Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
1111
TABLETS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
ertrytuyuyu
I
-><•
, -
COVERS about 20 Per Cent., TUBES 25 Per Cent, and over.
WRITE FOR
NEW PRICE LIST.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George St., Sydney; 8 at 35 Bolton St
Newcastle.
ADVAINCES MADE ON ALL SECURITIES
a m - m h pH % w
N A^fc M ? NT PIETEJC9
74 CASTLEREACK
EUSTACE BENINETT ceneral manacfi?
MONEY ADVANCED UPON ALL SECURITIES AT REASONABLE RATES OF INTEREST.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
ertrytuyuyu
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY,
ertrytuyuyu
The great popularity enjoyed by MALTHOID as
an excellent roofing is due solely to merit* There is
no other ready-to-lay roofing that possesses the good
qualities of MALTHOID* Absolutely waterproof,
easy to lay, and will last longer than other portable
roofings. Write us for further information*
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
Call
For
%
OHM
BLACK
JMatVirtue
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,.
7 Bent St. (op. Lands Office) Sydney, N.S.W
ZV*£es
' *
■s-
-
£#es
HE LI DON SPA
HELIDON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries/ away effete matter.
The Bulletin
V01.33—N0. 1671.]
[Thursday, February 22, 1912.
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, JS'.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by . Post as a Newspaper.


GOOD BOOKS ARE PROFITABLE INVESTMENTS,
RETURNING MANY TIMES
THEIR INITIAL COST.
5000 TECHNICAL BOOKS.
NOW READY Lists of Books on ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, CQNCRETE, ELECTRICAL ENGIN-
EERING, WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY, ENGINEERING, MINING, PLUMBING AND SANITATION.
OTHERS IN PREPARATION. LF’"'A List of the Best Books on Any Subject Bequired will be sent Post Free.
GEORGE. ROBERTSON CSb CO. PTY., LTD., 238 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
■HOW TO USE THE POWDER.**
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
—
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHiTE TEETH.
Some poetical reasons why Hudson’s
Eumei. hoi Tooth Powder should be
used for the Preservation of the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal anc
Antiseptic virtues that have made Eunien
thol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically
owing to the evolution of oxygen when i
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens th
Teeth s@ wonderfully, and wards off decay
as no other preparation for the Teeth
can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in tins, price 1/6
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD.,
lj 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ill)
CSC
I'inl i= o
3 “*
12
The Red Page
Shakespeare’s Love Affair
Amid the dust of professional criticism
that has so long obscured and almost oblit-
erated the man, Will Shakespeare, Frank
Harris comes blithely with his vacuum
cleaner; and in The Man Shakespeare and
The Women of Shakespeare (Methuen, per
Lockley Library) we discover the forgotten
lineaments of a human being. Frank Harris
is, apparently, the one vital Shakespearian
critic that the world has produced for gener-
ations. The probability is that every pro-
fessor of English Literature in Australia will
frown him out of hearing for interrupting
their dreaming worship of the one English
god. Harris is alive, stimulating, adventur-
ous, convincing and thorough. His Women
of Shakespeare is as absorbing as a photo. -
play; and his theory of Shakespeare’s long
love affair gains in concreteness, and rises
from an audacious possibility to a satisfying
conviction as one follows him through his
elaborate and meticulous sifting of the evi-
dence produced in court by the Elizabethan
lover himself.
There are other women whom Shakes-
peare put into his plays—his mother, his
wife, his daughter—but there was but one
woman whom he could not help putting into
his plays, since she put herself there. This
was the “gipsy wanton” whom Harris iden-
tifies as Mary Fitton, maid of honor to
Elizabeth.
This woman dominated all Shakespeare’s
maturity, and changed him from a light-
hearted writer of comedies, histories and
songs into the greatest man who has left
record of himself in literature, the author
of half a dozen masterpieces, whose names
have become tragic symbols in the conscious-
ness of humanity... .The immortal signifi-
cance of Shakespeare’s life to me, the history
of his soul, is the story of his love for Mary
Fitton. Till he met her at 32, he knew
little of life and less of women; through her
he came to knowledge of both and to much
self-knowledge... .The conception of passion
as a forcing-house of genius is new to litera-
ture, and altogether foreign to the English
mind; yet Shakespeare himself is one of the
best examples of the truth.... B’or 12 years
he lived intensely, now in the seventh heaven
of delight, now in the lowest hell of jealousy,
rage and humiliation. All the experiences of
joy and sorrow he turned to soul-profit....
We have a realistic snapshot of her in
Rosaline in Romeo and Juliet, a superb
photograph of her as Rosaline again in
Love's Labor Lost; idealistic impressions of
her in Julia, Juliet, Portia, Beatrice and
Rosalind, passionate full-length portraits of
her in the Sonnets, and as “false Cressid,”
and, finally, a triumphant, living, breathing
picture of her in Cleopatra. Lady Macbeth
is a mere sketch of her imperious will-
strength and self-will; Goneril a slight copy
of Lady Macbeth, with lust emphasised.
Mary Fitton, whom Harris identifies as
the “dark lady” of the sonnets and the lay
model for Shakespeare’s long gallery of pas-
sionate heroines, was in rank far above the
status of an actor. She came as a girl of
16 to be maid of honor to Elizabeth, and her
career was a record of liaisons. She was
married twice. Shakespeare was well within
the truth when he so persistently termed her
a “wanton.” The story Harris extracts
from the sonnets is the simple one of a lover
betrayed by the young friend whom he sent
to his lady to plead his claims. The false
friend was Lord William Herbert, after-
wards Earl of Pembroke, a youth nearer her
age, and as far above her in rank as the
actor was below. But there is no circum-
stantial evidence that Shakespeare ever
knew Mary Fitton. She, no doubt, visited
the theatre, for the fact that Kemp, the
clown of Shakespeare’s company, dedicated
a book to her somewhat familiarly shows
that she knew him. But the evidence of
Shakespeare’s passion for the light lady is
convincingly revealed by Shakespeare himself.
From Harris’s detailed analysis of the man’s
life work the conclusion is in most masterly
manner reached that the lover could not
keep his lady’s face, her sensuous passion,
her personal attributes out of his work.
Shakespeare is, as it were, convicted by his
own hand-writing. His plays were his pas-
sionate, doubting, jealous, bitter, disillu-
sioned love-letters, all addressed to the same
person.
The full proof of this achievement in de-
tective criticism cannot, of course, be
more than indicated here ; but certain points
are sufficiently striking to lead the reader
himself to study the plaintiff’s learned brief.
First, Harris rightly stresses the point that
Shakespeare very rarely indulges in the
physical portraiture of his characters; but
when he is identifying Mary Fitton with his
character, he loves to paint her with aston-
ishing detail. In Romeo and Juliet, Mary
Fitton’s appearance is given to Rosaline,
though her soul is Juliet’s.
I conjure thee by Rosaline’s bright eyes,
By her high forehead, and her scarlet lip,
By her fine foot, straight 1eg....
In As You Like It, he needlessly drags in
her portrait, where Rosalind addresses
Phebe:—
’Tis not your inky brows, your black silk
hair,
Your bugel eyebrows, nor your cheek of
cream. ...
Mercutio tells us that Rosaline was a “white
wench” with “black eyes.” Biron, in Love’s
Labor Lost, describes the Rosaline of that
play as: —
A whitely wanton with a velvet brow,
With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for
eyes.
and in the Sonnets: —
....my mistress’s brows are raven black;
Her eyes so suited, and they mourners seem.
This insistence of the beauty of black
hair is striking in an age when all the poets
and courtiers thought it expedient to praise
the red hair of the queen.
For the first three or four years of his in-
timacy, he continually painted both realistic
and idealistic portraits of his mistress ; but
then he found the wanton in her, her faith-
lessness to him—and to others; and from
this time he gave up trying to idealise her.
A little later, and he will paint her to the
life cruelly, strip her to the skin and scourge
her with his contempt and hate till we are
forced to pity her and take sides against him
as a slanderer and a caricaturist who has
forgotten in his jealous rage the high impart-
iality of the artist. But all the while the
idealising tendency was in him, and if he
could not employ it in painting Mary Fitton
as Julia or Portia or Beatrice, he had to
use it on imaginary figures. His mistress’s
faithfulness made him long for winnowed
purity and devoted affection, and he gave
name, if not reality, to this desire of his
nature in Ophelia, Desdemona and Cordelia.
It is in his picture of Cleopatra that, as
Harris proves by his careful analysis,
Shakespeare shows Mary Fitton to the life.
In this picture we have by far the finest
and most complex portrait of Shakespeare’s
mistress ; we even learn some new physical
featui’es from it; she was tall, with a high
forehead and oval rather than round face.
Lofty stature suits the superb gipsy-wanton
with her white skin and blue-black eyes and
hair.
The portrait, “drawn by Joseph Simpson
after the original portrait” of Mary Fitton,
which Harris places as the frontispiece of
his book, is not quite fair to the reader.
Granted that permission could be obtained
to reproduce it, the original portrait, not-
withstanding its defects, should have been
given for comparison with Harris’s concep-
tion of her. A portrait drawn from a por-
trait may unconsciously have been fitted to
the portrait drawn by Shakespeare in his
plays, or —if you like it —the portrait Harris
found, or invented, in the plays. But the
critic is prepared, from this mass of evi-
dence furnished by Shakespeare, to take the
portrait on trust. There was someone whom
Shakespeare loved and hated and dx - ew with
his heart’s blood in play after play.
&
Yet Harris’s method may be turned
against himself. Let us apply it to Harris’s
own books. Suppose a century hence a
similar analytical critic studied The Women
of Shakespeare with a Harris mind. Might
he not infer, and possibly prove, from
an analysis of this book, that Harris saw
this type of woman in Shakespeare’s plays
simply because he looked only for her? He
might go further, and prove that Harris
looked for this type because he could not
help it, because, in short, Harris himself
was, through all liis years of critical work,
interested in some “dark lady” of his own,
whose alluring lineaments he saw in every
book he criticised. Then would begin a hue-
and-cry for Harris’s twentieth-century Mary
Fitton, who might, of course, turn out to be
Mrs. Frank Harris —if, as let us hope, there
is one.
+
The Irish Recollections (Hodder and
Stoughton, per Angus and Robertson) of
Jusiin McCarthy are merely the garrulous
tales of an old man. The author of A His-
tory of our own Times may interest Irish-
men by his memories of life in Cork City, and
of the personalities of the celebi'ated men of
the author’s youth ; but there was no need
for the book to have been written, and cer-
tainly no necessity for it to have been writ-
ten so long-windedly.
More absorbingly interesting than any
but the best of novels is Stephen Graham’s
Undiscovered Russia (Lane, per Lockley
Library). Graham tramped in the guise of
a peasant pilgrim through the tundras and
forests of northern Russia from Archangel,
where, in the summer, there is no night,
down to Moscow, keeping always to out-of-
the-way tracks, and living the life of the
moujik. He met revolutionaries living in
far northern villages, banished on mere sus-
picion ; he met the peasants living still in
the age of wood, who built and carved out of
pine everything necessary for their simple
lives ; he met the aborigines of the tundras
—a race that was there before Russian
history began; he describes life on the great
rivers of the north, and in the immense
dark forests of pines," where the peasants
have bred back to paganism and the state
of the Ancient Britons, where “the forests
are behind their eyes as well as in front of
them”; and his narrative is almost litera-
ture, so vivid and so pregnant is his style.
The reason of its _ interest is that the
author sees in Russia a wiser civilisation
than that of England, whose civilisation is
merely commerce.
Kimble Bents Pakeha-Maori
There is a man living among the Maoris,
and content to be a Maori, who, throwing
off his white civilisation, took part with the
Hauhaus in the fiercest fighting and the
almost incredible privation of the Maoris
of Taranaki throughout the bloody struggle
of Maoriland’s Ten Years’ War. And this ad-
venturer, when dressed in the clothes of civ-
ilisation, looks exactly like a tame, suburban
shopkeeper. But lie is wise; he prefers the
blanket and the mat, as well as the beliefs
and superstitions, of the Maori that he has
become. The Adventures of Kimble Bent,
to give him the name he has forgotten, is a
remarkable true tale, and it is told, without
embroidery, by James Cowan. (Whitcombe
and Tombs, Melb.; 55.)
Bent had savage blood in him. His
mother was a half-caste Red Indian, his
father an American ship-builder. At 17 he
ran away from home, joined the United
States navy, was paid off, came to London,
enlisted, deserted, was recaptured and sent to
India, and, with his regiment, the 57th Foot,
came to Maoriland. Here he tried vainly
to get his discharge, was flogged and gaoled
for insubordination, and, sent back to his
hated regiment, decided that he could not be
worse off with the Maoris. But the Hauhaus
made this runaway pakeha a slave, and,
under different chiefs, he remained a slave
all his life. His most responsible work was
that of making cartridges; but he never
fought against the whites, nor did he eat
them.
James Cowan’s intimate knowledge of the
Maori enables him to reconstruct the scenes
of that fierce campaign with the accurate
local background. He gives the Maori side
of the Ten Years’ War; and this book has
more adventure crammed into it than Robin-
son Crusoe. Hauhauism was a new religion
founded on the Maoris’ conception of Christi-
anity. The chants,and ivaiata of the Hauhaus
were composed of the strangest jumble of
English words.
This is the sort of pidgin-English that the
Hauhau congregation chanted, as the new
“gift of tongues” bestowed on their priests:
Nota _ _ North
No te pihi North by East
No te hihi N. Nor’-east
Norito mino N.E. by North
Noriti North-east
Koroni Colony
Teihana 1 Attention 1
Hai! Hi!
Kamu te ti Come to tea
Oro te mehe All the men
Raima Round
Te Niu The Niu
Teihana! Attention !
While the prayers are merely the prayer-
book pidgin-Englished, with Koti te Pata
(God the Father), Koti te Tana (God the
Son), and Koti te Orikoti (God the Holy
Ghost).
The fighting was the real thing, with all
the ancient rites of the Maori revived. Here
is Bent’s description of the sacrifice to the
war god :
A Hauhau charged right into the redoubt,
and killed the captain with his long-handled
tomahawk. Making a clean cut in his
breast, he tore out the heart, a trophy for the
terrible Ceremony of the mawe offering....
And another heart was torn from a white
man’s body even before it had ceased to beat.
....And in the very midst of that battle
in the dark, the pagan ceremony of the
whangai-hau was performed, the oblation to
the god of war. The priest of the war-party
offered up one of the pakeha hearts. The
savage tohunga lit a match (he carried
pakeha matches for this dreadful purpose)
and held the bleeding heart over the flame.
Immediately it began to sizzle and smoke, he
cried in an exultant voice, “I have Tu,”
meaning that Tu, the supreme god of war
was with him, or on liis side. Then he
threw down the burnt sacrifice, and, clutch-
ing his long-handled tomahawk, rushed into
the fight again.
Bent furnishes the Maori account of the
death of that brave and picturesque soldier,
Yon Tempsky, and of the cremation of the
body on a funeral pyre. He also gives some
cheerful particulars of the cannibalism of
the Hauhaus: —
Katene and Wairau were two of those who
ate the cooked soldier. I saw Katene squat-
ting there, with a basket of this man-meat
and some potatoes before him. He took up a
cooked hand, and, before eating it, sucked
up the hinu, or fat, that was collected in the
palm just as if he were drinking water. The
hands when cooked curled up with the fin-
gers half-closed, and the hollowed palm was
filled with the melted hinu.
The Maori children, seeing their fathers
enjoying their meal of man-meat, thinking
it was pork, clamored for their share.
The revival ot the ancient practice of can-
nibalism was the most hideously savage fea-
ture of Titokowaru’s method of warfare. It
was not meat-hunger in this case; it was a
battle-field rite. In olden Maoridom war was
war to the death, and to the oven; it was
no use beating your enemy unless you killed
him, and no use killing him unless you also
ate him. The eating of soldiers’ bodies not
only glutted racial revenge; but also —in
Maori eyes —destroyed the prestige of the
whites; it ruined their mana as men and
warriors.
The Hauhaus were but taking literally a
joke made by old King Potatau te Whero-
whero a decade before. The Governor
visited the chief of the Maori kingdom, and
endeavored to dissuade the king from fight-
ing for Maori independence. He pointed out
that the pakehas would drive the Maoris into
the forest, far from their cultivations; and
asked him what he would do for food. The
old king replied that there were plenty of
berries and other foods in the bush.
“And suppose I chase you with my sol-
diers, and pursue you so that you cannot
get even those things to eat, what, then, will
you do for food?”
Said old Potatau, grinning: “Then I’ll eat
you!”
But if there was savagery on the part of
these savages, it was equalled by the ferocity
shown by the whites in closing accounts
with their enemies. Colonel Whitmore
offered rewards for Hauhau heads —£10 for
that of a chief, and £5 for that of a warrior.
“Friendly” Maoris and whites vied with
each other in this head-hunt. The heads
were smoke-dried. The result was a dramatic
scene on the return of the first expedition:—
The Wanganui men who had taken the
Hauhau heads came up in a body and
opened the tent door, and poured in head
after head upon the ground, exclaiming:
“There, Whitmore, your heads!”
The little colonel was thunderstruck. He
stared with consternation on the ghastly
heads, most of them tattooed, with grinning
teeth and long, blood-stained hair, strewn
about the floor where they had rolled. There
were 11 of them, some at the colonel’s feet,
some beneath the table; some had rolled
under the camp bedstead.
He had forgotten all about his promise of
a reward for heads. He had not meant
that the heads should actually be brought
into camp, but that a reward would be paid
for each Hauhau killed in the pursuit.
These facts (says Cowan) may not please
the mild or gentle variety of reader. The idea
of a Maoriland Government force decapitat-
ing its enemies and smoke-drying those heads
for purposes of reward, is too savage for the
refined humanitarian to contemplate without
a shudder. Nevertheless, these are facts.
It was no kid-glove warfare. In this case
the Government Maoris were inflamed by
anger and revenge, and, indeed, some of them
were little better than the cannibals they
were chasing. But, while it was barbarous,
it was thoroughly in accord with the spirit
of guerilla warfare that was forced upon the
troops, and it served its purpose, for it
struck terror into the hearts of Titokowaru’s
warriors, and they never fought again.
Musters of English Journalism , by T. H.
S. Escott (Unwin, per Lockley Library, 12s.
6d.), is, as its sub-title explains, a study in
personal forces. In his comprehensive work
the men who made, and are making, for pro-
gress in English journalism are not ob-
scured behind the journals that they directed.
The record is brought down from the “fathers
of the English newspaper” to the present
hour. One curious discovery needs men-
tion : The Delphian oracle of Greece was the
father of our “Answers to Correspondents”
column. “The oracular utterances judici-
ously edited b' T the priest presiding over the
shrines presaged with tolerable accuracy’’
The Bulletin’s “Answers to Correspondents.”
This will add a new torture to our poets.
The latest volume of the “Masters of
Literature” series (3s. 6d. each) is De
Quincey, edited by Sidney Low. The aim
of this cheap and useful series is to give the
best selections (not snippets) from the works
of the respective writers, with biographical
and critical introductions. The selections
are admirably made; and as every writer
has written 17 times as much as was neces-
sary to explain his message, these volumes
of 350 pages tell the student all he need
know of the classics. A student who read
everything of the classics would not have
time to read this page.
HERE WHERE MY HEART IS.
Here, where my heart is, lay your head,
Enfold and hold me as I speak—-
I have forgotten all was wrong,
I have forgiven all was weak.
.... So let us kiss again, though tears
Spring smarting from their hidden wells —
O trembling lip to trembling lip
Take this, the message that Love spells,
That though the wand’ring foot may slip,
Yet shall there burgeon other years.
MABY GILMORE.


a
ANTHONY HORDERNS*
for Economy
in .. .
SHAVING MIRRORS AND TOILET REQUISITES.
No. 1817 S—Shaving Set, on Polished
Wooden Base, 6fin. Mirror, one side
magnifying, the other plain. Movable
patent joint, which enables mirror to be
nxed in any position, 2 opal-lined Cups
and Badger Brush, 30/-
With Of in. Magnifying Glass, 27/6.
With 6fin. Bevelled Mirror, 23/-
No. 1816 S—Shaving Set, on
Solid Nickel Base, 84in.
Bevelled Mirror, on mov-
able joint, opal-lined Cup
and Brush, 17/6 each.
No. 1825—Shaving- Mirror, on
Solid Nickel Base, oval Bev-
elled Mirror, with movable
patent joint, which will fix
glass in any position, 13/6 ea.
No. 1811S —Shaving Set,
on Solid Nickel Base, sAin.
Bevelled Glass, opal-lined
Cup and Brush, with pa-
tent joint to swing mirror
to any position, 10/6.
No. 1837 S—Shaving Set, Solid
Nickel ltase, G|in. Magnify-
ing Miror, opal-lined Bowl
and Badger Brush, 16/- each.
No. 1812S —Shaving: Set, on
Wootlen Base, sJin. Bev-
elled Mirror, patent joint,
opal-lined Bowl and Bad-
ger Brush, 11/- each.
m
mm
tm
St s
PiASSSr-*
3£
SSi&i
mm
m
i
sae
N°. 1848 —Cut Glass Scent Bottles, Silver Gap
lop, Sin., 4/6; 4in., 0/6; sin. high, 9/6.
No. ISlBS —The Universal Shaving Mirror,
Nickel Frame, will hang, stand, or fold up,
New Patent Handles.
Tl , . ' Size of Glass, 54in.
Plain Mirror .. .. .. 4/_
fin. Bevel Mirror .. .. . ’ 4 /a
With Plain & Magnifying Mirror 8/6
Of in.
5/-
6/-
12/-
Oh
No. 1821S — Shaving Mirror, on Solid
Nickel £>ase, patent movable joint,
which enables mirror to be fixed in
.any position. Oblong- Glass, 12in. x Tin.,
13/6 ea.; Bfin. x sJin., 11/6 ea.; Sin. x
sJin.. 9/6 ea.
Oval Glass, 7jin. x 9in., 13/6.
'.Square Glass, Klin. 14/6; 7Jin., 12/6;
6fin.. 10/-
3Sto. 1831 S—Solid Nickel Soap Case, .'JJin.
:x i2Jioi., ftd.j Sfin. x 2|ih., 102 d.; 4|in. x
,3in., 1/-
No. 1818 S—F olding
Travelling- Shaving
Mirror, 5Mn. Bevelled
Glass, 5/- each.
6§in. Glass, 6/6.
Postage must be added
to the prices quoted
on this page.
1830S —Solid Nickel Soap Case, size
Sfiii. x 2fin„ 1/-
No. 1823S —Nickel-mounted Mirrors, on Stand,
4 sizes,' 3/6, 2/9, 2/6, 2/3 each.
w
No. 1824 S—Shaving Set, on Heavy Glass
Base, sJin. Mirror, one side plain, the
other magnifying, 2 opal Cups and
Badger Brush, 21/- each.
HIIMIJMIIIIIIIIUII
No. 1813S —Shaving Set, on
Solid Nickel Base, sJin. Mag-
nifying Mirror, opal-lined
Bowl and Badger Brush,
16/- each, or with 51in. Bevel
Edge Mirror, 13/-
No. 1833 S—Shaving
Glass Base, sjin.
opal-lined Bowl and
Brush. 12/6 and
Set, on
Mirror,
Badger
17/6.
No. 1832S —Shaving Sc!*,, orr
Solid Nickel Base, SMit.
Square Glass, on mov-
able joint, opal-lined £up'
and Brush, 11/- eaaln
SI
*N«. •1822 S—Shaving Jset. on heavy 82in.
Glass Uase, Ofin. Mirror, one side plain,
ithe other magnifying. Movable patent
joint, which enables mirror to be fixed
in any position; 2 opal-lined Cups and
Badger Brush, 31/-
With Magnifying Mirror, 29/-
Witti Ofin. Bevelled Mirror, 25/-
ANTHONY HORDERN h SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, vSydney
The Most Accurate *22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70
ertrytuyuyu
You see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rifle is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen ‘22 Short; twelve *22
Long, and twelve ‘22 Long Rifle R.F.
cartridges.
Your dealer can quote attractive prices.
Weight, 4ilb.
Insist on Stevens.
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co._
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [3
JA.Y
4
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strsngthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETux. e. eo., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
ertrytuyuyu
THE RUSSIAN ROYAL FAMILY
BENEFIT FROM
ANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
A Court Official writes: “Sanacine was introduced to the Russian
Imperial Family, and they have found great benefit from using it.”
COLDS
Miss M. A. Birch writes: “Since taking
Sanacine I am quite free from Colds in
the head and violent attacks of sneezing.
When I feel a cold coming a dose
of Sanacine relieves me at once.” —
Permarin, St. Mawes, Falmouth, Eng.
COUGHS
Nurse F. M. Harding writes: “ Sanacine
is the best medicine I ever used in my
life for a cough or cold; the
moment I feel a cold shiver I take a
dose.” Isolation Hospital, Lydiard
Millicent, Swindon, Eng.
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose.
SANACINE
An Invaluable Remedy for
ASTHMA INFLUENZA BRONCHITIS SORE THROAT
COLDS CATARRH HOARSENESS WHOOPING COUGH
COUGHS HUSKINESS CONGESTION CHEST WEAKNESS
And Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Great Britain and Tablets, ///£ and 219. Sold by all Chemists and Stores in Australia
PROPRIETORS : ASHTON & PARSONS. LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
The B.S.A. 3i h.p. Motor Bicycle has been specially designed
for use on Australasian roads, and guarantees all riders the
maximum of reliability, speed, and sound service. The
B.S.A.
MOTOR BICYCLE
has scored in practically every event in which it has
been entered. It is manufactured throughout
at the B.S.A. Factories in England of the finest
materials only, and every part is guaranteed
interchangeable, so that replacements can be
readily fitted. Write for a free copy of the
B.S.A. Motor Cycle Catalogue which contains
full description and illustrations of this “ Perfect
in every Part” machine.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing The B.S.A. Co.),
4 AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS
MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS* UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write ior Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
m
MDeetKamTs
0
Is -the most perfect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
A TRIBUTE
TO
CLEMENTS
TONIC
How It Cured Loss of
Sleep and Neuralgia.
♦
19 Bourke Street, Launceston,
December 7, 1911.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“My restoration to health by the
aid of Clements Tonic was little
short of marvellous.
n
"For two years I suffered dreadfully from Neuralgia and Insomnia.
The neuralgic pains were aggravated by my not being able to sleep. My
appetite left me,and I became so weak that I was unable to work, my hands
and limbs trembled and shook so, I thought my end had come. During
that time I was under medical treatment. I also tried various reme-
dies, and still kept getting worse. One day a friend gave me half a bottle
of Clements Tonic to try. The result was so good that I took a course.
My health improved rapidly, and I was soon free from my complaints
and felt splendid.
“I am a native of this city, and scores of my friends can vouch for
the truth of this statement. You may make what use you wish of this.
(Signed) SAMUEL COULTASS.”
Mr. COULTASS, of Launceston, is well known. Other testimonies prove the wonderful value
of this great Nerve and Blood Medicine in all cases of Nervous Breakdown, Weakness, Indigestion,
Insomnia or Loss of Sleep, Sluggish Liver, Melancholia or Depression of Spirits, Sick and Ner-
vous Headache, or Weakness after Fever or Illness. Send for it.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL CLEMENTS TONIC.


What
About
That
Dandruff?
s
£55
se
There is just this much about it:
Dandruff is a germ disease, is
most untidy, annoying, and leads
to baldness. When chronic, it
is very stubborn, but surely
yields to thorough and energetic
treatment. All germs must be
destroyed, the scalp must be
restored to health. Here is the
remedy: Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ask your doctor about using it.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
tiihi
iii
m
m
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
N7J
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Invhntors’ Guinn. Established 1877
SH
I AT BREAKFAST TIME
I or supper time Horlick’s Malted Milk
I is a delicious substitute for tea, coffee and
ILK
cocoa. It is prepared
in a minute and requires
no cooking.
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates^
Of all Chemists and
Stores. Samples and
Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted
Milk Co., Slough,
Bucks., England.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
•writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for l) f days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
; [2.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.
BONNINCTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
•*
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BonningTon’s’' of 40 years fame.
Bonningtons
Irish Moss.
The ideal family mediciHe is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
oomh}**?.-
H 055
IRISH®
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
1403.)
r
FLAT-CHESTED WOMEN!
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural de-
velopment was concerned, but science has found a way to cor-
rect your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-
bosomed, and although you have been attenuated all your
life, if you suffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be
fully developed and your weight increased to normal.
It is the refreshing firmness and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates, and the woman who is most
perfectly developed is the one who monopolises the endear-
ments of the opposite sex.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect, flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week. Send 2d.
stamp for a free trial sample and free book.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
VARICOSE
VEINS
IN THE LEGS
ARE
CURABLE
P OR many years
1 past, Vari-
cose Veins have
been looked upon
as generally incur-
able, except with
the assistance
of the surgeon’s
knife, and those
who understood the
subject realised
that method to be
one of procrastina-
tion only, as the
trouble invariably
returns. Not so
with the modern,
painless met ho d
that cures perman-
ently.
The VECSEY METHOD of TREATMENT
absolutely cures the worst cases by external appli-
cation only. A method of cure that gives no
unpleasant trouble, and that is painless and effi-
cacious to the utmost degree. . . Only those who
suffer, and those who have seen many cases, can
realise the dreadful affliction that Varicose Veins
are. A painless cure, without laying up, is,
under the circumstances, a positive boon to
humanity. Hundreds endorse ft, and you should
learn all about it if you are a sufferer.
FREE BOOK. FREE ADVICE.
Let us send you our *'ree Book, which gives full
particulars of this truly wonderful remedy. Send
2d. stamp to pay part postage on same to any
address. Consultation and Advice FREE. Call
if possible.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The Body-Building
Power of
BOVRIL
The Standardised BEEF FOOD.
fhiis; If this repre-
sents the amount of
Bovril taken
This outline dia-
gram representt
the actual
HODY-BUILD-
ING POWER
This diagram illustrates the
actual body-buil ding power of
Bovril, proved by recent
independent physiological
experiments to be
10 to 20 times
the amount taken.
Bovril, Ltd., hold the Royal Warrant of
Appointment to His Majesty King George V.,
an A ppointment also held for many years
from the late King Edward VII.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
TVT OTICED the recent increase in the bulk of
_IX The Lone Hand? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
will rush it. But it enables the proprietors to
give more reading matter for the same price—
Sixpence.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with palling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
solt rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
I
MELTONIAN
CREAM
(in Black
and White)
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots & Shoes.
LUTETIAN
CREAM
(made in light
and
dark colours)
for all kinds of BROWN
Leather Boots & Shoes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by the Manufacturer* of the cele-
brated "Meltonian” Boot Polishes.
E. BROWN & SON, LTD..
LONDON ENGLAND.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beaded Bubbles.
I drank this morn a chalice of rare wine
Drawn from earth’s oldest cellar, cool and far,.
Pressed from the Vine of Joy by rosy feet
That swayed in measure to the rhythmic beat
Of ancient melody; song wrought to twine-
Gold tendrils of sweet breath about the seat
Of the first god that rode upon a star.
So hoary old the draught, and yet so new, .
It seemed dead Time had closed his shining ixing,
And ended, where the morning fight began,
Blending all suns that through his cycle ran
In one full vintage under must that grew a l *"*
Like crusted opal. Tears of god or man
Fell never on its ruby ripening.
The bunches that the royal butler prest ,r&.
In Pharaoh’s golden cup, what time Wie doom j|||
Leaped on his lotus-dreaming in the shade If
And broke his sceptre, in long darkness laid s "
To quench the thirst of Death’s imperial guest, ; 5
Were but the raw cup yester-year had made
To that I drank from out earth’s splendid gloom.
Across the misty ways of all dead years
My thought took flight. The sunny lands were
drest
In gladness, and the world’s wide morning smiles ;
I heard the shepherd pipes of Grecian isles,
The tabors of Judea. All dead tears
Were turned to pearls of laughter, shining piles «
Of happy lustre that in joy had rest. ;
Beyond the storied marge of history,
And faded thrones of long-forgotten kings,
I walked the earth’s large sunrise, trod the streets;
Of drowned Atlantis, where the white-sailed fleets
Bore tribute of their mammoth ivory
From subject lands o’er which the ocean beats jT
Loud requiem, and a far green shadow flings. |
i
This red wine glowing at the chalice lip |
Held its ripe splendor in that golden year,
When language that is kinless on man’s tongue
Made wonder-music, and old songs were sung
As liquid as the silver notes that drip
From serapii fingers, when new worlds are flung f.
Flaming from Heaven, with harpings shrill ;'l
and clear.
Under the orchard boughs of greener days,
Deep-fruited with the ripening of vast dreams, *
My fancy’s pinion bore me, till there fell ‘
Long marvel of enchantment, like a spell
Of some diviner magic, on the ways,
And Joy new-bathed as in a rainbow well
Bayed Thought’s broad forehead with his lucent
beams.
For taller men and fairer women trod
Green meadows, tremulous with larger flowers,
A wider world, through which there seemed to
float
One pulse of music from an angel’s throat,
So near, I thought, the very skirts of God
Trailed o’er the earth’s love-roses. Yet that note
Bobbed not the gay, clear laughter of the hours.
I drained the cup. A happy wind arose
Out of the north. All birds awoke to sing.
The morning walked in robes of green and gold,
I felt the world’s soft arms about me fold,
And earth’s forgotten gladness round me close,
The prize of life was mine to have and hold,
While all my heart was drunken with the Spring
*- s - w -
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Sea-Dogs.
Up and down the seas we go, from Liverpool to
Petersburg,
Through the Baltic breezes, eating distance mile
by mile,
Or up by the Lofodens to Ringvatso and Hammer-
fest;
Or down about by Cairo and the deltas of the Nile.
The fairway of the seas for us,
The chanting of the breeze for us,
The memories of music in some little southern
isle.
Up and down the seas we sail, from Shanghai, south
to Borneo ;
Or north by Nagasaki and the temples of the
Buddh;
In and out the islands of Pacific archipelagos,
Past the shoals of coral, and the mangroves in the
mud.
Where many ventures fall to us,
And strange sea-voiees call to us
With strains of siren-music that are echoed in the
blood.
Up and down the seas we steam, from Tripoli to
Helsingfors ;
Out against the Indies and north to Hudson Bay ;
Athwart the Plate and Amazon, east-by-north to
Trinidad ;
From Aden down to Durban, or from Tokyo to
Malay.
While storm-winds rave and wail to us
With many a plaint and tale to us—
Our deep-sea kindred’s dirges—till we are bronzed
and grey.
Southward from Vancouver down to ’Frisco, or Los
Angeles ;
West by Honolulu into wide Pacific seas;
Through island-sprinkled waters till the Sydney
beacon winks at us—
And there’s the faint aroma of acacia on the
breeze.
It’s into port and out for us;
Cast off and swing about for us;
The manifest’s for Java, and we touch the Celebes.
Eastward from Port Phillip, out and eastward-bound
for Wellington ;
East from Monte Video direct for Walfisch Bay;
Westward cleared from Callao, by Fiji through to
Papua;
West again to Zanzibar, or north to old Marsay.
They are no longer strange for us,
The paths our sea-tramps range for us,
We know the Behring spindrift as we know the
Channel spray.
Northward by tha Ushant light, or beating down to
Halifax,
Familiar with the Polestar and the Dragon and
the Bear ;
Southward by Magellan Strait, Tasman Head, or
Albany,
Underneath the Southern Cross, high-hung in
crystal air.
Though wide its waters foam for us,
The deep sea is the home for us,
The broad estate of sea-dogs whereabout they fend
and fare.
victoria.
C. G. A. COLLES.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
L* v * ’■ « • ' '■
Rfejr v' ' % V v V. * v 1) *
li!9sb*..tv j •*• v a a v> v > •
eSSi»".
CLOSED AS COUCH,
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out cf order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.? in Rer'ne, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
/, / " r
t}j> *** c/ (J,J$jA f
f o> t/t/te ait if &'*
'* J%
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Biend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
WELSBACH FANS
W Mankind’s Friend in the Tropics.
ertrytuyuyu
ELECTRIC.
THE GAS VENTILATING FAN
has an air displacement of 216 cubic feet per
minute, with the low gas consumption of two
cubic feet per hour, fitted with Ball-Bearings
and requires little attention; Pfjjg
WELSBACH ELECTRIC FANS
are made to pass the most stringent test, fitted
with Speed Regulator, and can be driven by
D.C. or A.C. Current, at 110 to 240 volt. They
are highly-finished, Black Enamel Frame and
Body, wdth Nickel Fittings.
Designs comprise CEILING FANS, 32in., 54in.,
and 60in. Blades, Ffom £J tQ £j 3 jq s
TABLE OR BRACKET FANS, 10in„ 12in.,
and 16in. Blades ; also, the SWI.VEL and TRUN-
NION FAN, lOin. and 12in. Blades.
Prices vary from £2 7s. to £3 15s. each.
Catalogue and other information from
The WELSBACH LIGHT COMPANY are offer-
ing FANS, driven by GAS and ELECTRICITY,
which will bring comfort into the Home life,
and increase the energy of the worker during this
hot, trying weather* '
GAS.
TheWdsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Welsbach House, 302 Pitt Street, Sydney,
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth Agencies.
-DIAMOND JEWELLERY-
At the LOWEST PRICES in Australia.
Import AH Diamonds Direct from the Cutters
and mount them in my own factory
Diamond and Ruby Bangle, set with 25 Fine C\l litil
Double-Cut Diamonds and 1 Sapphire, m/iv/ -
m
H ,
Single Stone
Diamond Earrings,
£lO/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£B/8/- and £6/6'/-
18ct. Cold, set with
2 first, water double
cut diamonds, very
K, £lB/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5/10/- & £l2/10/-
ertrytuyuyu
15ct. Cold Soarf Pin
and Stud Combina-
tion, set with 9 Fine
Diamonds and Ruhy
” B &ffi££«/15 /-
All Diamonds, £B/10/-
Please note that I guarantee
to refund money in any case
where goods purchased do not
come up to expectations.
I will gladly post a copy of MY
BIG JEWELLERY and SILVER-
WARE CATALOGUE FREE to
Any Address.
ertrytuyuyu
Diamond Pendant, set with
44 fine double-cut diamonds,
and 5 sapphires, £27/10/-
ertrytuyuyu
18ct. Cold, set with
Fine Double- Pin
Cut Diamond, «"•
Smaller Diamond,
£B/10/-, £6/10/-
JOE DAVIS,
The Money Saving Jeweller,
26 Park Street, SYDNEY,
One Door from Pitt Street.
18ot. Cold, set with 6 very
large first water dia- t9ji
monds ; very brilliant, *"*'•
Smaller Diamonds, £20&£15.
w
,
i
'
i
Smoke the soothing, satisfying,
subtle
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
and enjoy the true charm of
choice tobacco.
TURKISH——VIRGINIAN EGYPTIAN.
Your Tobacconist will supply ABDULLAS.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
Any class of body fitted to
the HALLEY Motor Lorry.
THE Elalley has been adopted by hundreds of merchants —many
using fleets of 20 and upwards for the transport of their goods.
These repeat orders mean that the Halley gives ENTIRE SATIS-
FACTION —that it is a motor lorry dependable and economical in the
fullest degree.
We have several chassis
ready for delivery—and will
fit them with any required
styles of body. The Halley
is adaptable for the trans-
port of passengers or goods.
mr
It is a silent, strong, simple and accessible lorry that costs THE
ABSOLUTE MINIMUM EOE UPKEEP AND REPAIR.
ertrytuyuyu
Some Interesting
Figures.
We have prepared state-
ments of the ACTUAL
COST of maintaining a
Halley Lorry, as shown
by the figures of users.
These will convey, in un-
mistakable manner,
ample evidence that the
HALLEY IS MOST
ECONOMICAL.
Halley Lorries secured GOLD and SILVER MEDALS and
SPECIAL AWARD for simplicity, accessibility and freedom from
breakdown, after a severe six-weeks 5 test by the Royal Auto Club.
15cwt., 20cwt., 2)4 to O Too Sizes.
Write for Catalogue and interesting particulars.
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
Sole Agents,
Motor Garage, 136-8 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.—N0. 1671.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1912.
PiUC’K til).
HOW THE WORKER IS LEFT, OR HOLDING THE FORT.
Being the latter days of the Brisbane General Strike under the leadership of men who were less Napoleonic than they imagined


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George-street North, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. £1 6 0
Half-yearly . . .. . • 013 G
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor. The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of th.s number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at U 6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
TJ.S.A. — -Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. Punchiappuhamy.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
C) : )in. x l)in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, Neiv
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz., Id., and Bhoz. to
lOoz., 2fd.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, Hz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1912.
THE MALLACOOTA WONDER.
The Weary Government of Victoria has
been seized with a desire to open up Malla-
coota . Inlet to the blessings of commerce.
Taken- by and large, Mallacoota doesn’t look
as if the blessings of commerce would agree
with it. The place lies a long way from
Melbourne and a good distance from Syd-
ney, but there are no other good things to be
said about it. In other words, it is a hole in
the coast almost exactly where two State
Frights meet. It is located in Croa.iingolong
County, just beside the Weary border.
Mallacoota is a large slop of salt water,
like a saucer, and an ordinary man could
stand in the middle of it and look at the
adjacent scenery. The Weary Ministry
has no delusions about its proposed new
port, but it reckons that things can be so
improved, at considerable expense, that flat-
bottomed barges will be able to load up
there with trees and eggs and dead hens
and sundries. Then these argosies will be
towed to Melbourne by small steamers, pro-
vided the steamers and the barges don’t
sink together while struggling round the
dangerous Promontory, which is a dreadful
place in bad weather for a baby tug ham-
pered by a huge, flat punt full of potatoes
and pumpkins and flrewood. If they do
sink lives will be needlessly lost, and the
troubled sea will be covered with pigs and
hencoops. There is something weird about
this sudden desire to dig out of its obscurity
about the meanest pint-pot harbor on the
coast, but to one who understands the
amazing Congestion policy the business is
intelligible enough.
.«•*■**
The Congestion policy aims carefully at
opening the bad harbors —the wretched,
shallow, bar-bound places where the tiny
ships come to grief and drown, and the
sailors drown too, and leave widows and
orphans behind them, and the harassed
captains lose their certificates, in conse-
quence of which they have to end their days
working river punts on the contract system
at £2 a week for 10 hours per day. It cul-
tivates the bad harbor even when there is
a good one alongside, and it carefully sup-
plies wharves and other accommodations at
the worst- place, while doing its utmost to
make trade impossible at the best one. The
reason is simple enough. Obscure afternoon-
tea-cup inlets like Mallacoota can only hold
tiny craft. These vessels are too small to
carry the local exports straight to Europe,
so their cargoes have to plod round to the
big, bloated State city—which is Melbourne
in the present instance —and there be tran-
shipped, to the further bloating of the one
big port and to the great and profitable com-
mission of its merchants. There is no
chance of the bad harbor ever rivalling
Port Phillip or Port Jackson, nor is there
any risk that a city will ever grow there to
threaten the supremacy of Melbourne or
Sydney. Of course, the necessity to employ
wretched twopenny ships to struggle over
the wretched two-foot bars —such ships as
should never be expected to face the open
sea —is often murder putfe and simple. And
over-sensitive people might even be so mis-
guided as to call politicians like Murray
and McGowen bad names, because their
Congestion policy encourages the hopeless
ports that are only fit for hopeless ships,
and discourages the big ones, which could
accommodate large, safe craft. If these big
ports were supplied with a network of rail-
ways and the other facilities that Sydney
and Melbourne enjoy, they would gather in
trade from surrounding areas, now wholly
neglected or inefficiently served by toy-
steamers that struggle up and down death-
trap inlets. The grief is that they wouldn’t
be content to be mere tributaries of a
State capital. They would tend to set up
for themselves, and have their own ocean
liners, and conduct their own foreign com-
merce. That would be good for them, and
for the surrounding districts, and for the
State in general. Also, it would be good
for Australia. But the dreadful local traders
and politicians of Sydney _ and Melbourne
have drifted back to the ideas of a cen-
tury or two ago. They are on the mental
level of the old jobbers and dealers of Cadiz,
whose port had a monopoly of the trade
with Spanish America, and who reckoned it
was better that the treasure fleet should be
sxmk by an enemy than unloaded anywhere
save at Cadiz. The two most populous
States of Australia have wandered into such
a condition of alleged mind that a good port,
if it isn’t Sydney or Melbourne, is regarded
as a misfortune. The district may badly
want a port. It may be far away from the
State capital. Its produce may be rotting
wholesale, because the overcrowded railways
can’t carry it, and population may be leaving
because it isn’t worth while to raise crops
and leave them to moulder. The good local
port is regarded, all the same, as a public
evil and a thing to be discouraged._ It
might almost be classed as a notifiable
disease.
* * * *
The natural sea-exit of the district which
Mallacoota Inlet is to serve —Mallacoota,
which it is proposed to improve at great ex-
pense, so that flat-bottomed rafts may load
with turnips there and afterwards founder
on the way to Melbourne —is Twofold Bay.
There are 42ft. of water at the entrance to
Twofold Bay and it is a place of large possi-
bilities. Being a place of large possibilities
there is, of course, no railway to it, and as
few roads as possible, and. no improvements
worth mentioning. Its 42ft. of water are re-
garded as 42 objections or disadvantages,
calling for loud discouragement and every
possible kind of reprehension. Of course
Victoria isn’t officially aware of the exist-
ence of Twofold Bay, because it is over the
border. By the side of a long and utterly
lonesome track, miscalled a road, there lies,
overgrown by vegetation, the bleached re-
mains of a certain Plug. Only those who
know where to look for it ever find that
Plug, and very few know what it means. It
is an old surveyor’s mark, and it expounds
the spot where N.S.W. ends and Victoria
begins. North and south the air and the
scenery and the people are the same, yet
the shadow and influence of the Plug re-
main. The Victorian Government would
rather that its eastern province should perish
than that it should prosper by trading with
the outside world through a harbor over the
border. And on the other side of the misery
and evil influence of the Plug, those Sydney
potentates who call themselves N.S.W. would
rather that the State’s southern province
should go back to barbarism and desolation
and kangaroos and the illimitable rabbit,
than that it should trade through Twofold
Bay—because that place isn’t Port Jackson.
The bay only requires a little encouragement
to become a place of importance, but then
there must be no place of importance in
N.S.W. save Sydney, and no place of any
account in Victoria save Melbourne. Even
if N.S.W. allowed Twofold Bay to become
the port it should be, and Monaro began in
consequence to grow a large population, in-
stead of being filled with bunny and the four
winds, Victoria would still, no doubt, main-
tain a coldly reticent attitude on the other
side of the ancient and wonderful Plug, and
refuse to know that a commercial outlet was
available.
* * * *
So, out of parochial animosities and the
Congestion policy, arises the proposal to
make Mallacoota Inlet a parody of a harbor.
The neighborhood, like the adjacent section
of N.S.W., has only a few trees and
turnips to sell, and Mallacoota isn’t
likely to encourage it to larger things.
The water will, in most places, reach
about to the stomach of a tall man when
he is standing up. There may, at the best,
be a precarious commerce by punts, and
there will almost certainly be a great mor-
tality among the punts, but the ghosts of the
folk who are drowned are not likely to
haunt John Murray, because he sleeps too
soundly, or James McGowen, because he
has too little imagination Besides, the
Congestion policy has produced so .many
ghos'ts that a few more will hardly signify.
THE DIGGING OF A PIT.
When the present ill-judged war is over it
will be time for organised Labor to consider
its position and decide what guarantees it
can give that the General Strike will never
again be one of the weapons in its armory.
For the General Strike is, so far as
unionism is concerned, a landmark on
the road to the cemetery. It must be
remembered most carefully that this absurd
proceeding is no necessary concomitant of
unionism, any more than an Inquisition is a
necessary feature of religion, or abusive lan-
guage an inseparable item of 1 arliament-
ary government. The hopelessly crazed
doings of certain Labor leaders at Brisbane
leave the essential merits of unionism just
as before. These people merely show that
the best of institutions can be discredited it
the administration of them falls into bad
hands. An army and good military disci-
pline are things that a country, with savage
enemies on its borders, can’t do without, de-
spite the fact that an army lias sometimes
become the tool of a madman who thought
himself entitled to let it loose on all and
sundry whenever his little personal dignity
felt hurt. Republicanism isn’t discredited,
though it sometimes leads to the emergence
of weird maniacal adventurers like Lopez of
Paraguay. Even the whole dog tribe doesn t
call for abolition because an occasional
canine goes mad. All the same, there
shouldn’t be too many Presidents like Lopez
and dogs should try to avoid the Jiabit oi
going mad. „
If the General Strike were to become a
frequent iniquity, anyone can tell what the
consequences would be. The unionist would
become a social outlaw and a social outcast.
He would be a recognised public enemy —a
sort of wolf’s head, according to the old Saxon
phrase. He would be the one man in the
community whose word could never be relied
upon, for no matter what bargain he made
with his emplover, and no matter how faith-
fully his employer adhered to the bargain, he
would be liable to break his agreement at
any moment at the bidding of some reckless
outside person or seltVadvertiser of the brand
of Coyne, M.L.A. His written or spoken
promise, in industrial matters, would be
worth less than a Bengali’s oath or a Jap’s
solemn assurance. He would, in short, be
expected to be an habitual liar. He would be
the one animal in the community that was
in no way amenable to fair and honorable
treatment —he would have to be that kind of
animal, or else the General Strike would be
impossible. He would be just as dangerous
to have about the premises as a dingo among
the sheep, for when the unions are called out
it is the employer of unionists who loses his
staff and his business, and the employer of
non-unionists who prospers. Presently all
the best workers wquld revolt against these
miserable conditions, and form separate
unions, each looking after its own little
affairs, but acknowledging no allegiance to
any central authority whatsoever; and the
much-prized solidarity of Labor would van-
ish like a mist. That would be j;he only alter-
native to the total abandonment of the union
principle, which is. unthinkable. The best
men would revolt simply because they would
grow weary of leading the precarious life —
of receiving sudden orders, as if they were
slaves or hireling bravos, to- declare war
against civilisation under grossly incompe-
tent leaders; of being called upon to forfeit
their positions, eat up their savings, cut off
their own and their children’s food supplies,
and do their best to ruin the only kind of
employer they cared to serve under. Very
few workers would desire to lead the semi-
outcast existence, and certainly it wouldn’t
appeal to the kind of worker that the country
wants. Therefore, the General Strike isn’t
an experiment to be tried often, and it
should never be tried except under immense
provocation, and even then only by the vote
of a majority of organised' Labor. Labor
should be a republic.. The inflated Brisbane
leaders made the mistake of taking it for an
oligarchy or an absolute monarchy.
From beginning to end they, alienated
sympathy by their utterly impossible idea —
though it may have been a perfectly honest
idea —of their own importance. Certainly
the tramway men had a genuine grievance
against Badger in his refusal to permit the
wearing of the union badge, but this world
is full of worse grievances—grievances that
deal with matters of food and clothes and
the absolute essentials of life. Only a group
of leaders who fancied tligt their own smal-
lest concerns loomed so large as to blot out
the sun and stars, would have declared war
against the industry of the* State over a
matter of that size. With a shred of com-
mon sense to guide them they would have
realised that such a campaign was a desper-
ate one even in a big cause, and that over a
microscopic dispute with Badger it was
hopeless. They would also have realised
that it isn’t wise to put too great a strain on
the patience of the most loyal followers.
It is good to have the Macedonian
phalanx at command —that old array was a
fine and faithful institution, and sacrificed
itself in valiant fashion for some very worth-
less leaders —but only a fool-king would call
out the Macedonian phalanx to chase a
mouse that disturbed his repose, and the
natural end of such an adventure would be
a dead king, and a demoralised phalanx,
and an escaped mouse. Rather than acknow-
ledge a very small and merely temporary
check in the matter of a petty row with one
comparatively unimportant employer, the
Brisbane bosses salved their pride bv rush-
ing to a huge and certain defeat, and drag-
ging with them many thousands of men and
many thousand pounds of cash. There have
been plenty of monarchs who were humbler
and less inflated than these Brisbane strike
potentates. And they were not dignified in
the face of defeat. Even when their schemes
were crumbling around them they covered
their retreat with proclamations worthy of
Simon Tappertit, when he went forth on
two skimpy legs to abolish the Scarlet
Woman who sits on the Seven Hills of Rome.
* * * *
The Tory press made a decent pretence
of being angry over the Queensland up-
heaval. It had to make that pretence to
avoid giving away the show, but it did it
witli difficulty. In reality, it had no reason
to feel bad. That was the province of its
opponents. In its heart the Tory press hates
unionism with all its hating capacity. And
if Coyne, M.L.A., and a few of his col-
leagues had been in receipt of a handsome
salary from the coffers of Fat, they would
have earned that salary to the last penny
by the service they rendered in bringing un-
deserved discredit on unionism, in weaken-
ing its resources, diminishing its confidence,
introducing dissension into its ranks, and
alienating its well-wishers. They issued
their peremptory orders for a General Strike
without taking a vote of the men concerned,
and thus lent color to the Tory yarn that
the unionist is not a free agent, but a mere
slave of his officials. They started their
amazing racket just when Toryism wanted a
Horrible Example of the Evils of Labor
Domination, to help wreck the Labor Gov-
ernment 5” South Australia, and the S.A.
Labor Government went down badly at the
election. The Tasmanian General Election
is almost due, and the break-up in Queens-
land will help the Tory cause there also.
The Brisbane union officials may have been
strictly honest. But if they were not pur-
chased by Fat, then Fat got their services
cheap, and saved himself a lot of money.
However, that question is fast becoming
ancient history. Now it is up to organised
Labor to consider what it can do to avoid
falling into any more pitfalls of the sort.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Problem” of Sydney.
A ghastly jest is the proposal of the
McGowen Government to import, at great
loss of time and some loss of money,
an English “expert” to report on the
“transit problem” of Sydney. That city
has already had Heaven only knows
how many experts and committees and
commissions sitting on its transit pro-
blem like crows on a carcase, and it has
had a barrow-load of reports and recommen-
dations, not one of which has been of any
use because tired or incompetent Govern-
ments like that of James McGowen have
lacked the energy or the capacity to do any-
thing with them. There have been elaborate
reports about the city railway, the suburban
railways, the North Sydney bridge, the North
Sydney tunnel, the establishment of Greater
Sydney, the reconstruction of Greater Syd-
ney when it is established, about overhead
lines and subterranean lines, about new
wharves, about the shifting of the mail
steamers from Circular Quay, about the put-
ting of them somewhere else when they are
shifted, about the construction of a new road
round the harbor front, about the housing
problem, about paving, lighting, bad smells,
overcrowding, the removal _ of the Zoo. m
order to transfer the effluvium of the lion,
and pretty nearly every other aspect of the
case. They have practically all been
pigeon-holed to save trouble. No one really
requires to have the old mossy problem re-
ported on again, for everyone knows what it
is ; all that is wanted now is energy and com-
mon sense and money. The whole story may
be summed up in these few propositions:
(1) When you try to put too many people into too
little housing accommodation, there isn’t enough
room for them.
(2) You can provide for them by the tall tenement
house and underground cellar plan, which is Per-
pendicular packing', or by spreading the city and its
suburbs over a wider space, which is horizontal oc-
cupation. These are the only known devices, and all
the experts in creation have found no others. In the
horizontal instance vou must provide means by
which the far-out inhabitants can reach the city
swiftly and cheaply, or else they find it difficult to
g’ct there.
(3) If there are no overhead' railways or ground level
railways, or subterranean railways through the city
(every civilised white man’s city, save Sydney un-
less it be a water-carriage city like Venice —has one
or two, or all three of these devices), then the people
must get along the streets the Best way they can.
(4) If there is more street traffic than the streets
will hold, then the streets won’t hold all the traffic.
(Sydney is the only big civilised city in the world
which tries to shove all its traffic into the streets, j
(5) When you have put on all the tramcars that
the streets will carry, and they are not nearly
enough to carry the people, then the tram-cars are
sure to be overloaded, and, in addition, some people
are apt to be left behind —those who fail to get on
to the tram-cars. .
(6) When three rows of people are hanging on to
the footboard of a car, and one row is brushed off
by another car—which happens when there isnt
room for the other car to pass—then the people who
are brushed off hit the ground. If - they hit it hard
enough they get hurt.
(7) Crooked streets are not straight, nor arnnai-
row streets wide. There are only two things to be
done with them: (ci) Leaye them as they are; (>)
reconstruct them. .
(g) If the Government is too tired and incompe-
tent to construct bridges over and tunnels under
the harbor, then people must depend on the
ferry boats. All the leading botanists and
theologians of the age recognise in this con-
nection that when there are more ferry boats
than there is room for, they are more likely to
collide than if there were fewer boats and a greater
amount of space. Also, when the contents of three
large ferry boats try to get into three small tram-
cars, complications must arise. Further, when 2000
people, just discharged from the ferry boats, try
suddenly to cross four busy tram tracks at Circular
Quay, or elsewhere, it makes the tram drivers curse.
(9) When a medium-sized city has 40 municipal
councils, there is a divided opinion. . .
(10) When the same city gets 400 expert opinions
about its condition, and does nothing, there is a heap
of waste paper.
(11) When it never can get a Government tnat
will do things, there is the devil to pay.
Put shortly, Sydney is an anomaly. It is,
as already mentioned, practically the only
important white-man’s city on this earth
which tries to get along without providing
itself with an abundance of wide,.s.treets, and
without a network of city and suburban rail-
ways (ground-level lines, and subterranean
lines, and possibly overhead lines), and
the only one which makes shift with
onlv one passenger station, and one goods
station, and with no means of crossing its
waterway save the antiquated ferry boat.
Yet with all the details of its problem star-
ing it in the face it is the fashion to pretend
that there is some deep mystery about the
business, and that it requires tremendous
and costly investigation by imported ex-
perts.” Surely N.S.W. should be full up of
imported experts! It has had so many or
them, including Railway Commissioner
Johnson.
A District that is Dying for Decentralisa-
tion.
A meeting of primary producers —the people
that Sydney is accustomed to talk of in such
friendly and respectful terms —was called in
Bathurst last week to protest against the


shameless way in which Sydney was robbing
them of their just dues, and to discuss what
could be done in the matter. They didn’t
put it in those words exactly, but that was
the real purport of their remarks. No town
in N. S. Wales is suffering more acutely
from the Sydney merchants’ and importers’
and commission agents’ and landlords’ sel-
fish lust to drag everything that the Ma
St e produces to the shores of Port Jackson
than Bathurst. Sydney is Bathurst’s na-
tural port. But the route to Sydney is
blocked, hopelessly and chronically, by the
produce of innumerable towns and districts
whose natural ports are hundreds of miles
from N.S.W.’s capital city. In the fond be-
lief that decentralisation was really coming,
a number of Bathurst citizens set out, half a
dozen years ago, to make their district an
apple-growing centre. E. K. Wolsten-
holme, of the Experimental Farm, had de-
monstrated that apples, equal to any in the
world, were to be produced on the rolling
downs around the old town. He and others
have at the present moment orchards well
stocked with the highest class of fruit. As
show places these ventures are of value;
commercially they look like being quite use-
less. One Edgell explained why in the Syd-
ney Telegraph last Thursday as follows : —-
I never know when produce I send away will reach
Sydney, nor in what condition it will get there.
There is not only the loss, but the uncertainty. For
instance, I have booked space on the German and
other boats for my apples. The boats sail on certain
days, and if my apples don’t get down there they
won’t go, but I will have to pay for the space all the
same. It is a very serious thing, indeed.
And he was only one of a multitude of com-
plainants. The land tax has done a good
deal to bring real estate on the market in the
Bathurst district. The river flats along the
Macquarie are extraordinarily rich, and, as
abbve indicated, there are fortunes to be
made by intelligent orchardists out of the
far cheaper hill-country. In short, Bathurst
has all the makings of a closer settlement
boom and such a resulting period of pros-
perity as it has not known for half a cen-
tury. But agriculturists and others are not
going to be so demented as to settle in a
locality where anything up to four-fifths of
the stuff they produce is sent away only to
rot in transit. The result is that the closer
settlement boom which Bathurst needs so
badly may be confidently expected to stand
off indefinitely. Facts which the country-
dweller is being made to realise more clearly
with every fresh suburb that is added to
Sydney are that the cheapest land is dear
so long as there is no means of effectively
marketing the goods it grows, and that there
is no sense or use in crowding immigrants
on to the land when the railway policy of the
State is so administered that the new arri-
vals can only live by, in a manner of speak-
ing, taking in each other’s agricultural wash-
ing. In the past there has been a tendency
in Bathurst to regard the question of decen-
tralisation as the other fellow’s concern —
the' business of the Southerner and the far
Northerner, and so on. It is time the aged
city understood that the Sydney congestion
insanity is more its funeral than anyone’s.
Individual hinterlands may get relief at any
moment by doggedly insisting on the open-
ing up of the nearest port. The unhappy
Western district is going to continue having
its perishable products held up and ruined
till proper action shall have been taken as
regards half a dozen ports or more.
*
A Superfluity and an Anachronism.
“H. SINGEMOINE,” his Homily :
On every train and tram and ferry boat, in every
pub and restaurant and hash dep6t, wherever, in
short, a few gas-bags, with time on their hands, are
gathered together, one hears a welter of heated lan-
guage concerning Strikes. The more prosperous the
gasser, the more lurid his remarks, and the more
astounded he appears that the working classes should
have the malevolent audacity to attempt to corral
the fleeting oof-bird by means of the Strike-snare.
You would think, to listen to this type of citizen,
that he had never struck himself. If charged with
the offence, he would almost certainly deny it. Yet,
in doing so, he would, in about nine cases out of 10,
be lying.
Gaze round you, my brethren of the plethoric
bank-balances, and say frankly how many of your
business and professional associates have, omitted to
strike, in one way or another, of late years.- In the
United Kingdom there are at the present time, if
Reuter is to be believed, 12,000 doctors on strike
against Lloyd George's National Health Insurance
Bill, which became law last month. There is nothing
strange or novel about this phenomenon. Doctors,
both in Britain and here, are continually striking for
trivial reasons, such as the fact that a fellow-prac-
titioner has not learned his business according to the
prescribed formula, or has advertised, contrary to the
Union rules, in a newspaper or otherwise. A man
might be dying, yet if he was attended by a boy-
cotted medico, the rest of the profession would down
tools, so far as he was concerned. In Victoria a
curious position has arisen as a result of what one
may term a sectional strike in the legal profession.
The Government passed an edict or regulation or
what not, the other day, in reference to Crown-de-
fended cases, which the barristers took to be inimical
to their interests. They accordingly declared a strike
as regards all cases of this description. One result is
that a citizen charged with murder is unable to get
anyone to defend him. Duffy, Maxwell and others
have already refused their services, and unless some
“loyalist” makes his appearance, it looks as though
the case for the accused will’have to be presented t>y
the prosecution, or something. The recent strike
among the Castlemaine (Vic.) preachers attracted
general attention, thp more so by reason of the fact
that-at-least three "of the holy men. had, till their
own time of travail arrived, been particularly spirited
assailants of anything in the nature of a strike. The
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. is about the most per-
sistent and audacious striker in the Commonwealth.
It earns a colossal screw for the services it does Aus-
tralia, yet such is its insatiable greed that it strikes
periodically for more. Its method is to say to the
public at short intervals: “Pay me more or you get
no sugar”—just as Billjames occasionally says to
his employer: “Pay nje more or you get no pick-and-
shovel work.” The main point of difference between
them is that whereas Billjames practically never
wins, the Sugar Co. never loses. It has not had one
of its demands turned down in the whole course of
its history, and that most of them have been abso-
lutely outrageous, even such warmly “Liberal” papers
as the Melbourne Age are the first-to~admit. Only
last month the master-barbers struck for a 50 per
cent, increase in their earnings, and got it. The J.
C. Williamson firm struck for guinea stalls during
the Melba opera season, and won hands down. The
writer, as recently as last December patronised a
boot-cleaning establishment, where a “shine” cost
Id. and a “special shine” 2d. There came a day
when, on seeking his accustomed chair, he was
warned that a “shine” was now 2d., a “special
shine” 4d. In other words, the master-polisher was
on strike against the old arrangement.
Not to labor a painfully obvious proposition, one
may say, generally, that everyone who is in a posi-
tion to strike does so with the utmost disregard for
the feelings of the unfortunates who are prejudiced
by his action. All strikes do damage more or less
to the community—the strikes of the great; mono-
polies like the Sugar Co. and the Melbourne and Syd-
ney gas companies, and of the smaller concerns such
as the brick, bread, fruit and coal vends even more
so, when all is said and done, than the futile work-
ing men’s strikes which cause so much immediate and
glaringly-obvious misery from time to time.
What is the matter with a general strike against
strikes in Australia? The people who howl loudest
at the infamy of the strike-weapon are the ones who
have most say as to whether it is to be laid down
or not. They shoiild come to an understanding
among themselves that any employer or employer’s
newspaper which takes fractious points, for party
purposes, against Arbitration measures, designed to
ameliorate industrial trouble —measures which may
not be perfect, but which must certainly fulfil their
object, in part, at least, if given a fair show —shall
be declared bogus, and treated as the medical pro-
fession treats one whom it considers to be a traitor
to its interests. Furthermore, they should agree to
make of any capitalist who attempts to form or ex-
ploit an injurious combine with the object of tearing
inordinate profits out of the community, an Ishmael
and a social pariah or outcast. The working classes
should do the same by any toiler who flouts the de-
cisions of Industrial Courts; and agitators who
foment strikes for political or personal purposes
should be turned down by the democracy as public
menaces, while those who so behave under the de-
lusion that they are benefiting the country, should
be treated as men treat imbeciles. Under the politi-
cal system which this country enjoys, there should be
no more room for a strike than there is for a feudal
baron.
A Lost Opportunity.
At the recent “Liberal” Women’s Confer-
ence, at Hobart, a proposal that those
present should discuss the question of tak-
ing steps to check the spread of syphilis was
agitatedly turned down. Ex-Senator Dob-
son had referred to them as “elegant” or
“ladylike” or “genteel” or something, and
they were determined, evidently, to live up
to the ancient’s dreadful phrase. Yet, if
tliei-e is one section of the community more
than another that is interested in the ex-
tinction of the curse, it is the female sec-
tion, and if there is one section of woman-
kind more than another that should go to
any lengths to stamp it out, it is the well-to-
do, or “Liberal” section. Women are charged
with the care of the children, and it is the
children, when all is said and done, who
are hit hardest by the syphilis horror. Nine-
tenths of the little unfortunates who, failing
the happy release of death, are doomed to
go through life with intolerable skin, throat
and nose diseases, ricketty, sightless, and
with their nervous system hopelessly de-
ranged, are the innocent victims of this
disease. And statistics all over the world
show that it is essentially the disease,
not of the poor, but of the well-to-do.
As things are, no girl knows when she mar-
ries whether her offspring are destined to
be healthy or to be moxistrosities. In two
cases out of 33, in England, for example,
the children are in some way afflicted, owing
to the syphilis taint. The happy bride has
no suspicion, 999 times out of 1000, of the
agonies that may be in store for her and
her seemingly-healthy husband. A report
submitted to M.L.’s Ward Government last
year, by the then Attorney-General (Dr. J.
G. FindlAy, K.C.) showed that 60 per cent.
of males in the Dominion contract venereal
disease-before reaching the age of 30. It is
not likely that Maoriland is either better
or worse morally than other countries. In
other words, in Australia, about six mar-
riages out of 10 are liable to be marred,
more or less, so long as this scourge rages
unchecked. And a Conference of representa-
tive “Liberal” women, assembled to —in the
words of one of them—“consider measures
that shall benefit and uplift the whole of the
people,” declines to eve;n mention the sub-
ject ! This bourgeois attitude >of false shame
is as all the doctors and sociologists have
been pointing out for years past, the factor
which gives syphilis its strength and enables
it to live. It should be discussed as un-
ashamedly as consumution. When the people
have been taught what it is they will be no
less eager to obliterate it than they were to
obliterate the plague 12 years ago. Only last
December John Burns, as President ot the
British P'-eal Government Board, issixed an
order making consumption a compulsorily
notifiable disease. • Apropos, the Contem-
porary Review for January said:—
Without exaggerating the value of this great
change, it is not too much to say that, in a few de-
cades, if the opinions of medical experts are worth
anything, consumption will be almost stamped out
in the United Kingdom.
Where consumption might be stamped out in
a few decades, it is safe to say that syphi-
lis might be stamped out in a few years.
All that is needed is plain speech and
courageous action —the two things which a
big section in this country will seemingly
have none of. The spectacle of these “Lib-
eral” women at Hobart blithering about the
“menace of Socialism,” and so on, and, in
the same breath, side-stepping one of the
most palpable menaces on earth—-the curse
that is adding to the sum of human misery
and terror and pain every second of our
national life —would be amusing if it weren’t
tragic. It suggests a number of prominent
citizens arguing warmly over the location of
a drain, while a foreign invader burns and
ravages their native land.
A Lady Who Has Gone Amissing.
The tale of “Henri Singemoine” :
Has anyone noticed the disappearance or ex-
tinction of the Lost Woman? In my young
days she was one of the commonest features of the
social landscape. Almost every play featured one
of the species. She was presented as a haggard,
ashen-faced and altogether dejected being, bearing
but few remnants of the fatal beauty that once was
hers. She dressed in rusty black, and mostly wore a
shawl. The less worthy of the characters were ac-
customed to spurn her, the females even going so far
as to draw their skirts aside, with elaborate offiensive-
ness, when she passed. At this stage the heroine
usually dashed forward, flung her arms around the
outcast, and, with head flung back, delivered a few
noble words on the divine qualities of charity and
kindness. In novels, the Lost Woman mostly lived
in a country village. The slights she had to put up
with were something dreadful. However, she plugged
along somehow —always poor, always humble and re-
pentant and well-meaning. If she was particularly
lucky, she nursed the vicar’s baby through typhoid
fever, and died of the disease herself a few weeks
after the child had become convalescent. This caused
the village to speak of her with a sort of forgiving
sadness. Several advanced thinkers in the circle that
nightly gathered at the village pub actually pro-
pounded the view that, by the admirable finish of her
life,- she had won a sporting chance of evading the
agonies of Gehenna. These fancy pictures reflected,
more or less accurately, the moral Ruin as she ap-
peared in real life. She was nothing if not a Pariah.
To-day she strikes me as being a dashed side more
like a popular heroine than a Pariah. Go into any
fashionable restaurant or block of flats or hotel.
Who wears the gay and expensive clothes? Who is
surrounded by fawning waiters and dead marines and
masses of excellent food and rich young men and
other evidences of success in life? The respectable
housewife? Not so. The shy and shrinking maiden,
who in mid-Victorian times made such a hit by sud-
denly swooning, owing to an attack of the megrims
or vapors, or some such genteel complaint? No.
The idol of the establishment is, in nine cases out of
10, a brazen young woman, who has risen on the
stepping-stones of her dead morality, to her present
eminence, from the humble position of house-parlor-
maid in a hash-foundry. When I was. young we used
to be shown an actress (and a rotten one she was,
too), who, we were told, had been presented with a
pearl necklace, on the ground that she was the
“purest woman in England.” What chance would a
modern stage-favorite have of amassing jewellery, on
such a plea as the above? The obvious answer is
Buckley’s, though one might put it in even stronger
terms, and not overstate the case. That was an epoch
when the most dashing of “bloods” or “nuts” took a
certain shame of himself if he were seen with ladies
of the ballet. The idea was, amongst other things,
that the spectacle made his pure mother weep bitter
tears, and outraged the- virgin feelings of his sainted
sisters. If a married man so much as passed the
time of day with one of these young women, a storm
of protest came from club and drawing-room, hall
and hut, calculated to make him think that 14 rook-
eries had , burst . over his head. Nowadays, the
moneyed youth who does not know the most eminent
of the ballet and show-girls “by their Christian
names,” as the saying goes, is in peril of being ac-
cused of suburban habits. Married, men of fashion
are almost as sensitive to reproach in this regard as
bachelors. Their pure and virgin female relatives
are not shocked at the rapprochement between their
menkind and the stage. Despite the fact that one
eligible male after another is snapped up and wedded
by ladies who have “fallen” repeatedly, and with
crashes that have been audible over continents, our
virtuous wives, mothers, etc., continue to cease eat-
ing, with pleased excitement, when Mrs. Lais comes
into the hotel dining-room ; and they can scarce for-
bear to cheer when Lady Cleopatra enters a box m a
theatre where they are. To sum up, the woman who
used to be decorated with such phrases as “lost,
“ruined,” “degraded,” etc., has the best of good
times while she is defying the moral code. She
arouses during this period an almost affectionate in-
terest. in a large section of the populace., so. that she is
not so much notorious as famous (at the worst. she is
less reprobated than many a politician whose life has
been spent in the service of his country). And when
she feels like settling down, she can pretty well have
her pick of the marriage market. In fact, the Moral
Derelict, regarded as a tragic figure —something to
be mourned over at long range—-is a thing of .the
past. It is a paradoxical circumstance that the type
who goes nearest to filling her place is the eldeily
virgin—she who of yore was associated with delight-
ful bonnets and pressed lavender and old gardens,
and lived in an atmosphere of reverence and worship
and adulation. The aged maiden of file present cen-
tury isn’t spurned, - but she is shunned, which is
equally unendurable. She is scorned and pitied as
obviously as the abandoned one ever was. Her
chances of marriage are faint, and she hasn’t even the
recollection of past merriments to cheer her up. It
is all very sad.
O
The strike of pressers at the Denton (Melb.)
Hat Mills has led to a lock-out at the other
five local mills in an ordinary way of Capi-
tal and Labor conflict. When the eight
pressers at the Denton Mills (there are only
30 in the whole Melb. manufacturing trade)
struck work on a trivial question which
could have been easily decided, the voice of
Fat was heard protesting against the action
of a small minority in thus stopping produc-
tion and throwing hundreds of fellow-em-
ployees out of work. But when the otheT
mills closed down instead of pushing on with
their increased oiders, it became apparent
that Fat was concealing the true inwardness
of the trouble. Hat pressers,' according. to
the employers, are unskilled workers, doing
nothing that an intelligent novice cannot
learn to do with equal effectiveness in. a week
or two. They have a union of their own,
which recognises an, unskilled wage , of from
50 to 60 “bob” per week, and this union
enjoys the blessing of Capital under the cir-
cumstances. But for some months past, the
union of “pressers, putters-up and machine
blockers” has wanted to merge itself in the
Australasian Association of Felt Hatters.” To
this the mill-bosses objected, for obvious fin-
ancial reasons. The strike of pressers at the
Denton Mills had the ulterior motive of ac-
complishing the affiliation of their union with
the A.A.0.F.11. aforesaid by a subsequent
treaty 'of peace. Therefore the other mills
closed down in order to force a settlement of
the status of these more or less “unskilled”
workers as compared with the liaGers, who
can command much higher wages. In many
of the English mills the pressers are recog-
nised as members of the Hatters’ Union, but
in poor old Britain the difference between the
wage of the skilled and “unskilled” factory
worker is as little as ss. a week. In Aus-
tralia the difference between a unionist
presser and an associated hatter is from
£2 to £3 per week. Hence the presser’s warm
desire to rank as a hatter and the hatter’s
wish to take the presser into his association,
with a view to increasing the comparative
value of his own superior work. This is what
the “Latest Trouble in the Hat Trade” really
means, and what the organs of Fat carefully
ignored when they asked the public to blush
for the arrogant selfishness of the 555. work-
ers who were striking for no x-eason save
pure cussedness.
+
Frank Cotton writes :
The Australian Labor party came into existence
immediately after the most crushing industrial dfe-
feat in our history. The great Maritime Strike had
been waged and lost, and organised Labor was at its
lowest ebb.
Out of that defeat a new party arose, whose basic
principles were: —
(1.) Political equality.
(2.) Social and economic reform by political and
constitutional methods.
(3.) Social co-operation to be secured by the ex-
tension of the principle of the community as
employer.
The enunciation of these principles struck a new
note, and appealed to Australian Democrats, irres-
pective of class or creed.
Along these lines constitutional progress has been
made. Political power has been secured over the
whole Commonwealth, by a constitutional majority
in both Houses of the Federal Parliament, and the
battle is still going on with fluctuating fortunes in
the various States.
The Australian Labor party has nothing to fear
from the forces of Monopoly and Conservatism openly
arrayed against it, but it has everything to dread
from reactionary and undemocratic upheavals within
its own ranks.
During the last two years a small, noisy and per-
sistent section has, at different points, rushed into
industrial warfare, armed with the discarded and
obsolete weapons of the economic Stone Age. “The
General Strike” boomerang is the'-.favorite arm of
this particular section, and this erratic aboriginal
weapon invariably inflicts terrific injury on its mis-
guided users.
In the recent South Australian elections the most
deadly ammunition used by the Conservative party
was a collection of extracts from the wild orations of
divers irresponsible blatherskites during the last
Adelaide strike. The Brisbane folly, being in full
swing, was of course of immense assistance to the
Conservative party.
When the rank and file of the Political Labor party
clearly understand that Democracy will tolerate
neither the hold-up , of a community by ignorant,
muddle-headed bounders, posing as Labor leaders, or
the bludgeoning of citizens by licensed larrikins
masquerading as special constables, they will have
learnt a much-needed lesson. Meanwhile the great-
est service that any man can render to the Labor
cause is to hammer home the truth that every
advocate of the General Strike lunacy, however ap-
parently sincere, is at best merely a brainless imbe-
cile who ought to be in an idiot asylum.
♦
When the Brisbane typographical men
opened negotiations with the State Printing
Office for a cessation of hostilities, a re-
mark was made which went a long way to
explain the recent trouble. It was to the
effect that the compositors didn’t really want
to quit work because Tramway-manager Bad-
ger was a sour sort of person who couldn’t
get on with his staff —a matter that the
compositors couldn’t help even if they never
snatched another bit of type for 1000 years —■
but that they were called out, and were com-
pelled to obey “on principle.’’ That expounded
the whole situation. Organised Labor should
be a republic with a holy regard c or the
principle of the referendum, which is so
conspicuous a feature of the Labor pro-
gramme. If, through a mistaken idea of
loyalty, it allows its own elected officers to
establish an oligarchy or an off-hand kind of
despotism, then it has temporarily missed the
track. The coercion of a minorily by a ma-
jority is inevitable if any kind of order is to
be maintained. But the coercion of a
majority by its own servants —its chosen
officials —is quite a different circum-
stance. Any official, if given too much
latitude, is liable to become crazed
with the vastness of his own dignity, and to
take risks with other men’s interests that he
wouldn’t take with his own. He is apt to
become too much like Louis XIV. or Mr.
Bumble, the beadle. Labor requires to get
back to the simple republican idea. Then
misguided potentates like the Emperor Coyne
—who made a far worse hash of his cam-
paign than even the Emperor Napoleon
lll.—will be impossible.
Randolph Bedford writes: —
Australia changed round from the old Tory Government
which scorned payment of members, and built a
railway into its own backyard at public expense,
because it believed that a Labor Government might
fitly represent a big country. But the Labor Gov-
ernment has been selected of people of calibre as small
as the worst of the Tories who piled up Australia s
public debt. They were asked to legislate
for and —what is "more important —to- adminis-
ter a country as big as the U.S.A., and
they approached the problem ■ with minds the
size ■ of Athlo-ne Place, Sydney, of Young-
street, Fitzroy. The Northern Territory is four times
the size of France. The Fisher Government adver-
tises for a Lands Administrator, a job capable of
as much graft as a gravel or blue-metal contract for
the Sydney Municipal Council. They advertised it
at £650 a year—the price of a ringer slaughterman
at Flemington (Vic.) abattoirs; —and naturally the
right kind of applications don’t come in. They offer
it to Nielsen, of N.S.W., who may or may not fit
the job, and they raise the screw to £BSO, so as to
fit Nielsen, but they don’t throw it open to compe-
tition at the new figure.
Then they want an administrator, and they propose
£ISOO a year. I don’t know whether or not they
asked Charles Herbert, recently Government Resi-
dent under the State regime. Then, so the public
statement runs, they offer it to Cilruth,_ Professor
of Veterinary Science at Melbourne University—a job
which has naturally given him the mining, pastoral
and agricultural knowledge, and the ability to gov-
ern and administer demanded by the position, and, as
£ISOO a year isn’t enough, I understand the Gov-
ernment has increased it to £1750, with £SOO per
annum for expenses. But they didn’t ask anybody
except Gilruth to apply on the new terms, and
Charles Herbert (who will doubtless be annoyed
because I mention his name) has probably not been
asked. The mere trip to the Northern Territory
once taken by Professor Gilruth doesn’t fit him for
the job. We wanted a man of the open air-
Judge Murray, of Papua, or some such man. The
Federal Government, in its handling of all these
things, proves that it is as small as any of its prede-
cessors of the Anti-Labor side. It is useless to take
people of lolly-shop minds and ask them to think m
continents, but it’s a disappointment all the same.
Many a big country has been lost by a little man.
*
A good many old unionists of the kingdom
of Barataria are thinking hard these days of
another big strike of earlier times. It was
the wool season, and the waterside men were
“out,” so that the wool couldn’t be got away,
and things were becoming- unpleasantly
crowded. The waterside men were being
helped by contributions from the shearers.
The Shrinkage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The earth is steadily shrinking, and will lose, it
is estimated, one-hundredth part of its area in a
hundred million years .—Astronomical Text Book.
The Earth is slowly shrinking and our
quarter-acre lot
Will dwindle through the Ages into quite
a graveyard plot; o
And that is why we’re “nailing” all the
country that we can
Ere this contraction mixes up Beersheba
with Dan.
They tell us, in the cycle of a hundred mil-
lion years,
This pleasant little planet, with its pleni-
tude of beers,
Will not be so extensive by a fraction as it
is—
And so we’re off to seize it in the holy name
of Biz !
No longer do we wonder at the wild, inde-
cent rush
Of them who make a fencing post of ev’ry
handy bush ;
It is not that they’re greedy for the pasture,
as you think,
But simply that they’re anxious re the
Coming of the Shrink.
The man whose sole possesion is a million-
acre run,
Is buying out his neighbor, for the Shrinkage
has begun;
The Duke of Grouse and Pheasant, in a
deadly fit of fear,
Plas bought another county for the saving
of his deer.
And wicked, railing Radicals will yet get
up and chide
The man who goes a-pegging out an Earth
that’s on the slide.
Who knows that life is puny and existence
hut a span,
And, finding Earth is fleeting, tries to grab
it while he can.
Oh, scoff not contumeliously, and gird not at
his greed.
It is not Naboth’s vineyard that he’s lust-
ing for. indeed ;
He is but all too conscious that we stand on
Ruin’s brink.
And so would but anticipate the Coming
of the Shrink!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
Ist—EXCLUSIVE FILMS.
2»4 —An ERNEMANN BIOSCOPE.
1912 Model just landed.
It is perfection, as strong as a
battleship, and accurate as a watch.
Sole Agents for Australia& New Zealand.
THE LEADING CINEMATOGRAPHIC
&. PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELUNGTON.NZ.
LEMONS
ONLY
MADE
«
r
PUREST -
STRONGEST
BEST
CHOWMEN ! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
MORE TESTIMONY Regarding the
Excellence of INVINCIBLE Engines.
Mr. Alex. Zemek, of Lismore, writes: “Doubt-
less you would like to hear of the splendid work
done by the 9-12-h.p. twin-cylinder engine, pur-
chased from you by Mr. Knowles. This engine
has given the highest satisfaction during the time
it has been running, and for reliability it cannot
be surpassed. We have had many long trips in the
launch Gertrude (which was designed and built
by me, in conjunction with Mr. Knowles), the
river heads being between 65 and 70 miles from
Lismore; and runs like that, you will admit, give
one a thorough insight into the reliability and
merits of an engine.”
The “INVINCIBLE” is easily FIRST for RE-
LIABILITY in running; ENDURANCE and
ECONOMY in oil consumption ; and WE GUAR-
ANTEE EVERY ENGINE FOR FIVE YEARS.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.
(formerly known as “Mort’s Dock Motor Depart-
ment”). Works: WOOLWICH, SYDNEY. City
Office : 35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A SUMMER BOON!
Franz Josef
Laser Beer
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
DON’T FORGET.
Hacherbrau,
THE DARK LAGER.
But certain prominent men —one was especi-
ally prominent, and the way he foamed at
the mouth was wonderful —urged that the
shearers should also be called out, which was
done. So the wool ceased to pour in, the
pressure on the storage space was relaxed,
and the shearers, having lost their means, ot
support, were no longer able to help with
contributions. A few days later a leading
advocate of this extension of the strike was so
obtrusively and joyously drunk among the
pubs of Kangarusalem, which is the capital
of Barataria, that some of his mates grew
suspicious and took the liberty of searching
him. And among other things they found a
pipe, a half-plug of tobacco, some loose
matches, three old tram-tickets, a cork, an
empty flask, a trouser button, a dubious pic-
ture postcard, two cigarettes, a pocket knife,
some anti-bilious pills, an unpaid account for
the soling and heeling of a pair of boots, the
address of a House of Flossie, certain let-
ters, £l2 9s. 3d. in currency, a conversation
Holly, a latch-key, a gun-metal watch, a big
cheque signed by a Tory politician of the
worst description, and a crumpled bill on
which was printed an address urging all
'unionists to stand together to the last.
'.The Chinese republic hoisted its flag in Syd-
ney last week —on the E. and A. Company’s
:steamer Empire. It is red for blood, and
yellow for the color of the Coming Man, and
blue for our prospects if we don’t look out,
and white to express the blankness of the
Northern Territory, and blue again as a fur-
ther reflection on our prospects. Also it is
10ft. by sft. to express the Chow’s idea that
the odds in his favor are 2 to 1, if not more.
For more than 250 years the small Mancliu
minority has bossed China. It dared not
send its own army abroad for fear the China-
man should rise while it was away, and it
dared not raise an efficient Chow army, for
(hen there would have been no more Manchu.
Also, through staying at home so persistently,
the Manchu hordes didn’t get a chance to
learn new methods, so, one way and another,
Chow Land has been a . paralysed or chloro-
formed dragon. Now it hoists its 2 to. 1
banner to intimate that it is awake again,
and has cut off its pigtail, and means to go
in for a fresh deal.
Some day when Gregory Wade and his
press supporters have time to tear their at-
tention away- from the sinfulness of unions
that occasionally break arbitration . agree-
ments, they might fix an eye on their own
attitude re N.S.W. Speaker Willis and
Charles Robinson, of Hansard. This was
the course of events: (1) There was trouble
between Willis and Robinson, and eminent
;anti-Labor authorities frothed at the mouth
and declared that Willis was wrong. (2.)
Willis suspended Robinson, and the same
authorities foamed, and declared that Willis
was a hideous tyrant, and said other violent
things. (3) The McGowen Government
avoided all suspicion of partiality by appoint-
ing Judge Backhouse to arbitrate. (4) It
was denounced for doing this, as weak and
cowardly. Yet if it had dealt with the matter
itself it would have been denounced as not
only weak and cowardly, but corrupt and
vile and tyrannical, unless it decided in favor
of Robinson, no matter how wrong Robin-
son might be. (5) Anyhow, the Tory press
assured itself that the Judge would, of course,
decide in favor of Robinson, and thus cover
McGowen and Willis with confusion. (G)
The Judge decided against Robinson. (7,t
The anti-Labor people are now busy denounc-
ing McGowen for accepting the Judge’s deci-
sion, and they propose to fight—or, at least,
Billingsgate —to a finish.
♦
“ Jeames”: Why all this fuss about the
gartering of Sir Edward Grey? It is the one
British decoration that has no relation what-
ever to the services rendered by the recipient
to throne and empire. Neither Roberts nor
Kitchener is a K.G., nor was Lord Lister, nor
Gladstone, nor Tennyson. Run through the
gaudy roll-call of the Order for the past half-
century, and you will find that men of first-
rate mentality and character are as scarce
in it as they are in a Tory club. Palmerston
expressed the sentiments of 99 per cent of
those entitled to wear the coveted dark blue
ribbon when he said that “he liked the Garter
because there was no damned merit about it,”
Ex-King Manuel of Portugal, who has done
little in his short life but make mistakes, the
young Prince of Wales, who has done nothing
at all, and a dozen others of their calibre,
are Iv. G’s. In short, it is a purely social tri-
bute. Lloyd-George, for example, might save
the Empire a dozen times over, and
yet if the question of bestowing the
Garter on him were mooted, about
half the Order might be confidently relied
on to swoon —the chief reasons being that
Lloyd-George is a solicitor and has a Welsh
accent. Apropos, Max Beerbohm makes a
quaint—and, of course, intentional—error
in his delightful new satire, “Zu-
leika Dobson.” He represents his perfectly
stupendous young hero-Duke, as wandering
into the House of Lords, during the period
that he is “sent down” from Oxford, and
electrifying his fellow-peers with an extem-
pore oration, which so edifies them that he is
made a K.G., practically on the spot. Pure
rot, of course ; just as is the suggestion that
Sir E. Grey has been presented with the
Garter to exasperate Germany.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Royal “Everywoman.”
Criterion “A Fool There Was.”
Adelciii “The Luck of Roaring Camp.”
Palace “My Partner.”
Lyceum Silencer's Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Exhibition Building Tiny Town.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Driving a Girl to Destruction.”
Her Majesty’s “ Sinbad the Sailor.”
Royal “ The Chocolate Soldier.”
King’s “ Her Love Against the World.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
New Hippodrome “Toe Heart of a Hero.”
Glaciarium Kinemacolor.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Esplanade, St. Hilda.. The Follies.
•
Every woman, broadly speaking, is at-
tended at some time in her life by Beauty,
Modesty and Youth. If she listens to the
voice of Flattery, spurning the disillusion-
ing remarks of Truth, she is liable, amongst
other calamitous things, to go on the stage.
Once there it is not wildly improbable that
she will lose Modesty. Assuming she
makes good, Wealth wall come to her; also
a number of his friends and admirers. In
any case, Passion may be relied on to be
there or thereabouts. Wealth and Passion
may be handed the same scurvy treatment as
Truth; on the other hand, they may not.
Many actresses welcome them with loud
cheers. In the natural order of events
Youth and Beauty die. Every woman who
has adopted a stage life then finds herself
in a bad way. If she is one of those who,
in the hey-day of success, have scorned
Wealth as something abominable and beneath
the notice of the elect, she begins to repent
of her folly. She may even make a belated
effort to allure Wealth. In vain. Wealth
has little time for the average actress when
Youth and Beauty have left her. In fact,
to emulate the wit of the author, Nobody
has time for her. After certain passionate
outbursts natural to one of her profession
in moments of stress and travail, she be-
haves like a sensible female and looks the
facts of the case, or, in other words, Truth,
square in the face. Truth, when treated in
this Spartan fashion, is less appalling than
she seems at a superficial glance. As one
result of establishing friendly relations with
her, the faded star is led to True Love,
which is the end of every woman’s desire.
Such is the simple thesis which Walter
Browne, of the U.S., elaborates in “Every-
woman,” now playing to packed and highly-
edified houses at Sydney Royal. It is
a typically American production, glittering,
effective, meretricious, and teeming with the
obvious morality which the Bible-banging
Yankee millionaire loves to expound in his
Bethel on the Sabbath, after tearing the
substance of his trust-harassed fellow-citi-
zens from them all the week. There are
more smug platitudes and copy-book axioms
and so on, to the square inch, in “Every-
woman” than the writer remembers to have
heard in any sermon of a not wholly-irre-
ligious youth. They would not be tolerated
in an ordinary melodrama; they are given
sanctuary, so to speak, at the Royal, be-
cause “Everywoman” is really a Pleasant
Sunday Afternoon harangue in dramatic
form. The allegory wears very thin and
incomplete in spots. For example, in real
life, “Everywoman” is not done for by any
manner of means when she has lost Youth
and Beauty. She still has Artifice —a char-
acter looked for in vain in Walter Browne’s
play. Charm —the quality that won plain
old Georges Sand a host of brilliant lovers,
that caused men to die for love of Ninon de
L’Enclos, when she was a septuagenarian,
and that one sees in modern times in Ellen
Terry and Bernhardt —is left to her. And
what of Drink, the anodyne? The author
was ill-advised to leave Drink out of the
cast, not only because Woman turns to alco-
hol in moments of despair quite as frequently
as she does to cold and forbidding Truth, but
also because of the sprightly gags that might
have been evolved from his presence. Eard-
ley Turner would have scored heavily and
often with such archly-solemn remarks as
“Nobody dislikes Drink,” and so forth.
* * * *
Eardley Turner, the lonely Greek chorus
who explains things from the midst of an
eerie splash of limelight, makes the hit of
the piece as Nobody. His elocution is ex-
cellent and his voice is curiously suited to
the part. An effective pulpiteer was lost
when Turner went on the stage. Miss Hilda
Spong (Everywoman) has a thoroughly con-
ventional role to handle —one that she must
have played thousands of times under dif-
ferent aliases. She expresses the imme-
morial emotions of (1) the Gay and Inno-
cent Maiden, (2) the Reckless Adventuress,
(3) the Repentant Ruin, with the finish of
a seasoned artist. Arthur Styan, as Wealth,
makes up to look libellously like I leipont
Morgan. He is as callously insouciant a
villain as ever. Other notable featuies
of an immense cast are Every woman s charm-
ing companions, George Miller (Bluff),
R. White, jun. (Stuff), Laurence Hardinge
(Flattery) and Emma Temple (Truth).
The spot marked “X” on the stage of the
Criterion, which the vamp-female so care-
fullv covers with her deck-chair, is still being
viewed enthusiastically by Sydney audiences.
Henceforth, no matter what drama is being-
played at the Criterion, the present writer
will always see, with a shudder, that blood-
stain where fell the body of Fool No. 3, after
he so obligingly shot himself to make way
for Fool No. 4. For him not all the per-
fumes of the Red Sea will ever obliterate
that damned spot, nor will its glare be re-
moved by all the Monkey soap that polished
all the pans in which were reflected the
joint and several visage of all the monkeys
in creation.
Fritz Hart, of the
New Comic Opera
Co., conducting
himself well
during a bare-
foot dance.
Like Brother Pecksniff and the State
Brighter, Tiny Town continues to hold forth
with unabated vigor at the Exhibition Build-
ing, in the park that doesn’t belong to
Prince Alfred in Sydney. Not that there
is anything in common between the little
people who inhabit Tiny Town and the cal-
amitous Pecksniff and the State Frighter.
There are dainty legs at Tiny Town, and
Legs are anathema to Brother Pecksniff.
As for the State Frighter, there are broad
minds amongst the Liliputians, and broad
minds to the State Frighter are as under-
standable as broad beans to the domestic
cat. The novel entertainment will continue
at the old address until further notice.
*♦ * *
Three old friends crppped up at the Palace
on Saturday night, and were offered the glad
hand which holdeth the price of admission
to overflowing. The three were “My Part-
ner,” Frances Ross and Walter Baker.
Heaven and the forgotten files know how
many years ago it is since George Rignold
played “My Partner” in Sydney. It was
somewhere back in the time when the old
hands of the present generation were still
hopeful of finding a new sin or a blue drink.
Frances Ross and Baker were last seen on
a Sydney stage with Bland Holt about six
years ago. Like one or two other plays, “My
Partner” has a purpose, said purpose being
to show that a man can marry his mate’s
bereaved mistress with the happiest results ;
and, as the audience on Saturday night
enthusiastically applauded Baker, who did
the deed, Sydney may be taken as having
given its cordial approval to that branch of
the moralities. Whether the approval would
have been forthcoming if the excuse had not
been such a pleasing one as Frances Ross, is
another matter. The story may be boiled
down thusly:—Chapter I: Joe Saunders
(Walter Baker) and Ned Singleton (Her-
bert J. Bentley) fall in love with Mary
Brandon (Frances Ross) in a mining camp
in California. Singleton gets the girl into
the usual trouble and is forced to take an
oath to marry her, at the point of his part-
ner’s gun. Chapter II.: Singleton is mur-
dered by a Wowser and the girl flees to the
ranges, where she is helped through her
trouble by a friendly Chinaman. Chapter
III.: She returns later with the Chinaman,
and mud on her dress and reputation, to Pa’s
shanty. Pa seems annoyed about something,
and, in the presence of a herd of people,
demands the name of her seducer. “Stop,”
says Baker, in a voice that thrills the stalls’
girl to her young soul, “she is. my wife!”
Pa is incredulous, and, no certificate being
forthcoming, insists upon another marriage,
which is duly performed. In the general re-
joicings that Mary is an honest woman, no-
body asks Baker what sort of a dog he was
to let his wife go wandering about the hills
with a Chinaman while in an interesting
condition. However that is a mere matter
of detail. The work of Miss Ross and Baker
on Saturday was as good as ever it was
and criticism may end there. Herbert Bent-
ley, with a handicap of six weeks’ illness
behind him, was so good that, in the big
scene, Baker shared the curtain with him.
Charles Thr'osby in an Irish-American char-
acter, Tom Cannam as the faithful Pong,
Vera Remee as Mary’s sister, and Miss Chal-
lis as the housekeeper of the Brandon family,
can cut up the rest of the appreciation
amongst them. William Anderson, who is
responsible for the production, will announce
the next piece when the time is ripe. At
present it seems some distance off.
At the Tivoli, if they don't know what
else to label anyone, they chance it or toss
up, and call him a comedian. They do a
good deal of chancing it this week, for there
are five comedians and one “comedienne”—■
six out of a team of 12 in the second part of
the programme. Irene Millar is the “comedi-
enne,” and she made her first appearance on
Saturday in three songs, all well received—
which is the reporter’s way of throwing the
entire responsibility upon the audience.
Willie Gardner joined the forces the same
night. Bill is announced as the world’s
champion skate dancer, and The Bulletin
won’t argue the point. Terry and Lambert’s
character impersonations get the good recep-
tion they deserve, and the Athletas, Ike and
Will Scott, the Dartos and Fanny Powers
all help up to make up a fair average pro-
gramme.
v 'l* : I*
Virtue and Vice met in a four-round con-
test on Saturday night at the Adelphi.
Though the fight went the full time, Vice
never really had a look-in, and Virtue won so
easily on points that nobody said the referee
was a “fair cow,” or suggested that he should
get his head read. Marlow billed it as “The
Luck of Roaring Camp.” In the first round,
after the villain had murdered a prospector
and stolen the plans of a rich gold mine, had
put the blame on the hero, and made arrange-
ments for a lynching, the heroine appeared
just in time, and the round went to Virtue.
Round 11. saw the villain and the villainess
plot to get rid of the hero. A duel was ar-
ranged and loaded dice won the villain the
first shot; but the heroine again had her say,
and this round also went to the hero. In
round 111., the villain abducted the heroine,
and took her to his deep, dark, toadsome cave,
but the hero and his party get in by the
tradesmen’s entrance, and the round went
the same way as the others. The last round
was altogether in favor of the hero, who had
the chastened joy of seeing the villain con-
victed of murder. This desperate combat is
renewed every night. Cecil Mannering (Will
Gordon) and Louise Hampton (Nell Curtis),
the hero and heroine, do nothing to get them
a medal; and Vivian Edwards is so used to
being the villain that he could probably play
Tom Barnes in his sleep. Harrie Ireland
would make a better Jovito de Sutro, the
semi-villainess, if she were more audible, but
otherwise her work is good. Geoffrey Cass’s
Gonzales the Greaser stands out conspicu-
ously. A ruck of lightweight characters also
run more or less, but their batting is inferior,
and they don’t kick a goal among them.
❖* * *
Sydney still flows in a steady stream to
see “The Quaker Girl” at Her Majesty’s,
and in return “The Quaker Girl” provides a
tuneful show, quaint dressing, a bright and
coherent narrative, and a vivid splash of
dancing in the last act.
At the National Amphitheatre, Miss Beau-
mont Collins and her company are presenting
“Bedfellows,” a far more humorous effort
than any of those in which this combination
was seen here some months back. The Haar-
lem trio ? Emerald and Dupre, Sylvesta,
Harry Simms and a host of others are earn-
ing their oats at this establishment as in-
offensively as they know how. On the other-
hand, it is necessary to record that Millie
Doris is leaving—a truly calamitous circum-
stance.
* * * *
In Adelaide, the King’s is giving their first
turn in Australia to Lawrie Barclay and
Jack Straw? two solo comedians of well-con-
trasted merits, and each able to “hold” a
house. The Tivoli has Johnson and Dean
to dance and Alice Raymond to play the
cornet and other things in an Egyptian set-
ting ; also, Fred Bluett has, in “The
Sundowner,” the best song he has
struck for some time. At the Royal,
the kiddies please the kiddies in a “Red
Riding Hood” panto, of great antiquity.
There are strange jokes, with white whis-
kers, about Bland Holt, Mrs. Brown Potter
and the“ Jersey Lily,” 1892 vintage, or there-
abouts. Still it is a. pretty show, with sing-
ing its strongest side, and the humor of the
boy comedians its weakest.
* =]: * *
“Her Love Against the World,” revived
for the joy and enlightenment of Melbourne
at the King’s, belongs to the rather modern
order of gaudodrama which burgled its idea
from “The Prisoner of Zenda,” and found
its trickiest expression in “Prince and Beg-
gar Maid.” The arrangement of impossi-
bilities in this is very callow, and the at-
tempt to be humanly interesting is so
mawkish that only a strong performance all
round could save the drama from the gentle
titter of incredulity. An invisible war be-
tween the Kingdoms of Ravensburg. and
Saxonia, due to the tyrannical sovereignty
of Beckett in the first-named land of fiction
(where the only apparent industries are a
royal court and a military prison), might
appeal to the melodrama public’s confiding
imagination if the whole trouble were not
pervaded by the hero’s little brother Nello.


STEOK
One of the World’s
PIANOS
m
A conspicuous point in the general musi-
cal excellence of the STECK is its perman-
ence of tone. There are several pianos,
and good pianos, too, which have a beauti-
ful tone when new, but they will not pre-
serve their tone quality for any length of
time.
The STECK is not only remarkable for
its resonance, but it is also a tone that is
made to endure-, so that after many years
of constant use its magnificent tonal quali-
ties are as conspicuous as ever. This is
because of half a century’s experience in
manufacture, during which time no effort
has been spared to incorporate in the
STECK every feature worthy of a place in
the construction of one of the world’s lead-
ing piano's.
You should call at PIANOLA HALL, and
see the STECK if you are interested in
good pianos, or, failing that, write for
Catalog “S.”
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 George Street,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
252 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q. N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York. [l3
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’ Phone No. 230 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
The Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act.
Sold Everywhere. Pint Bottles, 1/
Nello has all the unconvincing characteristics
of a principal pantomime boy, and, by any
other name —such as Dicko or Jimmo —the
alleged male relative would look equally
girly. The fraternal greetings and sufferings
of hero Eric and knickered Nello, together
with the haughty bewailings of Princess Iris,
and the muffled sympathisings of Othmar the
usurped Prince, grow more tiresome than
even the truculent oppressions of the reign-
ing Prince, who runs his penal establishment
with the aid of four stodgy supers in uni-
form. The Bulletin derives a sense of
novelty from the truculent ruler, because he
is the Villain Who Does, and does things
thoroughly, whereas the futile villains of
ordinary civilian drama are rarely per-
mitted to biff the hero as they please.
Nevertheless, the audience in general seems
delighted when the four stodgy supers start
an insurrection behind the scenes, and the
sun of the usurper sinks in the golden west.
“DRIVING A GIRL TO DESTRUCTION."
AT MEL-
BOURNE
PRIN-
CESS’S.
OCTAVIUS
SCR EWE
(fohn J. Ennis)
of the School
Committee.
HARRY
DIVER ,
who has been
a villain for
years , reforms
and enters
the Church.
THE GREAT FIGHT BETWEEN THE
TWO WOMEN.
Time—15 minutes.
Weapons — Cups, saucers , plates , chairs , tables,
knives, revolvers and finger nails.
Final Round—Both defunct.
After which the Princess marries Nello’s big
brother, and the Kingdoms of Ravensburg
and Saxonia are presumably incorporated
with Idalia, where the nutty royal lady came
from.
Roy Redgrave, as the last of the heroic
Strathmeres, is sometimes a beauteous sol-
dier in blue, and other times a pathetic vision
in a carefully disordered shirt and under-
vest, retaining nothing of his uniform except
the pants. Beckett plays the oppressor with an
intensely powerful sneer; Ned Duggan is dis-
guised as a plump figure of a prince of the
blood, attached to a Bismarekian counten-
ance: and Miss Duggan backs her Love
against the World in the character which
Miss Mclntosh emotionalised when the same
piece was staged at the Royal four years
ago. The difference between the high-strung
princess of yore and her mostly matter-of-
fact successor is remarkable. Miss Dug-
gan, as a rule, keeps her emotions well under
control. When she lets them go they are
slow off the mark, and one can always see
them coming. The trouble with Miss Erris,
as the principal boy, is that she repeatedly
lets herself go, but never reaches her destina-
tion. Her thankless part was filled by Miss
Lizette Parkes on the previous occasion.
Max Clifton and others wear the decorative
accoutrements of princes, generals and
colonels. Miss Wilton is a becomingly cos-
tumed Shulah, and the notoriously feeble
comic relief has been cut down like the grass.
As much of it as wasn’t cast into the oven
is handled by Harrison and his accomplices
with distressing effect. Scenic accessories
count for a good deal in “Her Love
Against the World.” Imported gaudodrama
is better than bellowdrama, in so far that
the thinnest air of the Court at Ravensburg
smells preferable to the atmosphere of an
alley in Whitechapel.
** * *
Judging from the vast and motored gather-
ing at Melbourne Royal last Saturday, the
present revival of “The Chocolate Soldier,”
for five nights, is about three weeks too brief.
Strauss’s clever work struck Sydney at a
time when the city was recovering from a
course of “Melba” opera, at highly superior
prices, and its sense of proportion was out
of joint. The excellence of “The Choc,” as
compared with “Miss Gibbs,” was less ap-
preciated than the fact that it didn’t have
McCormack in the name part, or cost a
guinea for the boss seats. But in Melbourne
the comic opera made its mark ere grand
opera came along, and, as a melodious, hu-
morous, Spectacular feast of music, it was
not rivalled in public esteem by “Samson
and Delilah.” Apparently the local reputa-
tion of “The Chocolate Soldier” has strength-
ened since Nadina, Bumerli and Co. left
Melbourne to go on tour. Certainly the
performance was improved when the co.
came back last Saturday. The stage busi-
ness is slicker, the thing goes with more vim,
and Miss Amy Murphy, as she now appears,
offers full compensation, and a bit over, for
the loss of Miss O’Connor, whose high so-
prano voice was usually associated with the
prima donna part last year.
*% * *
On Saturday comes “Alias Jimmy Valen-
tine” to the Royal. The plot of “Alias
Jimmy” stands fully exposed in the adver-
tisement, and the announcement that the
drama made a deep impression on a peni-
tentiary in America seems to commend it
to the especial care of thousands of uncon-
victed citizens who ought to be in gaol.
»!' ❖ ❖
One more week is left for “Driving a
Girl to Destruction,” at the Princess’s.
When poor Ruby ha’s dodged the drivers for
the last time, the present season of Marlow-
drama will close. Meanwhile, Ruby works
overtime at keeping good on her own ac-
count, in addition to diverting suspicion
from her thirsty cousin Ruth. Ruth is an
awful instance of a woman married to a
noble-minded man, but wedded to the soul-
destroying bottle. Regarded as a limelit
dipso, with an essentially sober name, she
is a freak. She is contrary to the toughest
traditions of stage narrative. The dramatist
must have mixed those cousins up. Ruth
ought to have the artless love and confidence
of the Sunday-school picnic, and Ruby should
be an un-Christian endeavorer, trying to
paint her nose the tint of the name she
bears.
** * *
The strong bill at the Opera House is get-
ting its reward in cash at the doors. Sev-
eral of the turns are above the average.
Wilson Hallqtt is a mimic by himself. Emer-
son and Baldwin, although they juggle
nothing in a strictly original way, are as
bright in their generation as the Du-For
Trio of step-dancers, who have been heavily
discounted by the previous engagement of
six American ditto. And the violinist Rin-
aldo helps to draw the. crowd that had
thought of going to hear Hallett. Rinaldo
is something more than a clever executant,
dressed as an itinerant Dago, and introduc-
ing a “drunken fiddler” item into his per-
formance. He has personal magnetism, a
remarkable capacity for making the violin
wail from its very soul, and a thorough un-
derstanding with the small Rickards or-
chestra, which gives him admirable assist-
ance in unobtrusive tones.
*# * *
The 70th performance of “Sinbad,” at
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), happens to-
night (Thursday), and the< matinees are two
a week, as before..
** * *
“The Course of True Love,” which had a
30min. run at West’s, Melbourne, on Satur-
day, looked like a hug-and-kiss sermon set
forth in a number of- lovely diagrams. The
hugger-mugger in the tale Is at times so ex-
uberant that the caresses are half-way be-
tween kissing and pure cannibalism. Still,
the yarn takes high rank as a photo, play.
The Melbourne Dramatic Co.’s experiment
of providing bellowdrammer at picture-show
prices is getting the notoriety which is the
heart’s-blood of success. The notion that a
number of people flocked to the Hippodrome
on the first night to view “The Uower of the
Cross,” under the impression that it was a
wrestling match between Mercia and Marcus
Supercilious, is probably unfounded. The
power and the glory of the present cross are
somewhat remarkable; the talisman has only
to be waved in the face of the hard-working
vampire to make him shrink away, like a
commercial traveller from a glass of rasp-
berry vinegar. The story, by the way, has a
beautiful, if rather vague, ending. After
lethal stoush has been administered to the
villain, the scene suddenly changes to
Heaven, or thereabouts, and a red-haired
angel is shown clasping a black-haired angel
in her arms what time the orchestra wheezes
“Nearer My God to Thee” —all very mysteri-
ous but most affecting. The fierce light that
now beats upon the vampire will on Satur-
day give “The Heart of a Hero” a turn.
** * *
The latest revelation at the Prahran Lyric
(Vic.) has Mary of Scotland for its central
attraction, and her alleged fondness for Rizzio
as its special theme. This aspect of the pic-
turesque lady’s life is, however, treated dis-
creetly, the picture spreading itself more on
the events subsequent to the Dago’s murder,
when it becomes prodigal in its display of
affecting details. A film that brought the
tear-drop of sympathy to every eye on Sat-
urday was a Yankee story of a human calam-
ity, who fled down the steep path decorated
with corks, hairpins and betting tickets, •to
find an improbable happiness in the arms of
a Lai's of diminutive bust. Another concoc-
tion that was vehemently received was “The
Unloaded Gun” —one of those effusive cow-
boy dramas which always leave the writer
in a state of suspended admiration.
So much has been said about the long ex-
pected Melba matinee at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne), that it now seems superfluous to
mention the date when the function will
eventuate. A very, mixed programme is pro-
mised for Friday,''March 1. By special re-
quest of the G.-G.; the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre is to supply a turn, and sundry
other things will be subservient to the final
farewell appearance of the star. Melba is to
sing the Mad Scene from “Hamlet” and the
fourth act of “Otello,” wherein the Ave
Maria and Willow Song are included.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“S.S.”: The firm that is so indignant with trades
union actors for trying to raise their salaries is in
the happy position of being able to raise its own
emoluments at pleasure. It has done so here in Mel-
bourne several times within a short space. Front
stalls went up from ss. to 65., with 7s. 6d. for pre-
ference booking. Then the d.c. seats were lifted to
6s. (booked). The latest rise is back stalls and bal-
cony seats, 4s. They were 3s. formerly. These are
ordinary prices. On extraordinary occasions rates
run up to a guinea a seat. For a union to squeeze
money out of a firm is public brigandage; for a firm
to squeeze money out of the crowd is merely Private
Enterprise. Yet, after all, what is a firm but a
union-—the very closest union achievable?
“J.F.H.”: Reported in London that H. B. Irving
and Oscar Asche are to have new theatres built
for them. H.B.’s house is to be called the Irving.
Oscar, less egotistical, is said to propose calling his
premises the Leicester. But the christening won’t
be finally decided . until the , Asches’ return from
Australia, where they propose to play their great
Bagdad success, “Kismet,” also “Othello,” “The
Taming of the Shrew” and “Antony and Cleopatra.”
J. J. Hammond, Australasia’s first flying man, is
off to Europe to procure two of the best monoplanes
that can be bought, borrowed, or even filibustered.
He reckons to be back about the end of the year, and
will butt the clouds under the jurisdiction of the
new Portus-Talbot management.
“Harrison O.”: Bert Bailey has made his last ap-
pearance under the red and shrieky banner of Bilan-
derson. For some time he has had the ambition to
have his own name over the door, and he’s going to
put it there. A three years’ partnership has been
arranged, the conspirators being Bailey, Ned Duggan
and Jules Grant, and the Bert Bailey Dramatic Co.
hangs out its sign at Sydney Palace in March.
Bailey has been with Bilanderson for 14 years (“a
long time,” he says, “for an actor who is never more
than 23 or 24 years old”), having joined one of Wil-
liam’s companies at Her Majesty’s, Brisbane, in 1898..
“D.” : “Fontaine” lashes himself into a fury at my
suggestion that the Howards should devote their-
alleged supernatural gifts to something more lucra-
tive than the show business. “They claim,” he-
says, “to give an exhibition of telepathy—nothing,
more.” It is precisely because they claim to be cap-
able of more than mere thought-transference that Ii
wrote. For instance, in a recent issue of Sydney-
Sun, there was an elaborate, and, presumably-, in-
spired yarn, to the effect that one of the Howards;
diagnosed—miraculously I take it—a case of chronic:
rheumatism, and was able —again by means of,
magic, presumably—to prescribe an instantaneous;
cure. There is a vast fortune to be made by curing
chronic rheumatism, more money than any dozen
music-hall stars have made among them. I see
“Fontaine” winds up by calling me an ass. It was
to be expected. One rarely sees a controversialist
produce an argument that is hopelessly rotten and
untenable on the face of it, without trying to but-
tress it with wild references to his big brother.
Oscar Asche gets to work in Australia on Easter
Saturday, and knocks off on June 4 next year.
“Jehoshaphat”: All this talk about the immense
market value of comroonpiaee menagerie animals is
plain guff ; and the yarn that tucker alone comes to
£4O or £5O a day for Wirths’ menagerie is mere
leg-pulling and circus cant. Probably £5O a week
would more than cover the cost of feeding all the
animals that Wirths took to Maoriland in their ark.
The idea that grub costs £15,000 a year—well, it’s
a bit thick, especially when you remember that a
circus lays up for the winter, and at other seasons
often has to be hove-to in stormy weather. [Don’t
the animals eat when they are hove-to in stormy
weather?—El). B.]
One of the treasures which “Jimmy” MacMahon
brought back to Australia after a long-ago tour of '
most of the civilised and many of the uncivilised!
countries of the world, was a copy of “Tom Sawyer.”'
James, who likes to interview all the notorious char-
acters available, paid a visit to Mark Twain, at Hart-
ford (U.S.A.), and entered upon an agreeable dis--
course with that humorist upon the subject of whisky;,
literature and cigars. Incidentally, Twain asked!
Truthful James which book he liked best of those he;
(Twain) had written. “Well,” remarked Truthful;,
“I think ‘Tom Sawyer’ is the best. I had more:
pleasure from reading that than any of the others.’”
“I’m glad of that,” replied the author ; “I got mor.e:
pleasure out of writing it than any of the others.”’
With which he waved the whisky decanter to Mis
guest, and crossed to the bookcase. Taking down his
own copy of “Tom Sawyer”—one of the original
copies, bound in green morocco and illustrated with
the old wood-cuts —he wrote on the fly-leaf : “To Mr.
James MacMahon, with kindest regards, ©iff Mark
Twain, Hartford, April 17, 1881,” James recently
refused £lOO for the book, which shows that senti-
ment still goeth abroad like a raging lion.
Some of the English “historical” dramas filmed by
Pathfi Freres and other continongtal factories, are-
amazing perversions of the truth as far as it can be-
sworn to. History is peppered with fiction, but ita
main statements of facts and figures have been care-
fully audited as regards the “romantic” incidents.
Therefore, one sits spellbound by the Pathe picture
drama of Anne Boleyn. Anne figures as a timid in-
nocent, who chanced to captivate Henry the Eighth
just when Jane Seymour, a luridly wicked lady, was
tempting him to shunt Catherine of Arragon. This
would make the alleged alluress out to have been
quite a tough old Jane by the time she became
Henry’s third matrimonial spec., whereas she was a
discreet young spinster, who never came to Court
until the Boleyn charmer was on the wane. Anne
was actually Queen for more than three years; for
three years previously she had been the King’s recog-
nised “tart,” and for fully eight years before the
intrigue began the giddy monarch had spotted her as
a doocid fine girl. Her age is said to have been un-
certain, but seeing that she was duly registered as
a “flapper” maid-in-waiting to Henry’s sister 19
years ere she led Henry to the altar, the chances are
that she was a full-blown matron of five and thirty
when Henry sent her to the block. And the Pathe
drama presents her as an ingenue in contrast to the
villainess Jane Seymour. It is amazing, but not so
audacious as some of them. Lyall, the operator at.
West’s in Melbourne, tells of a Paths drama of
“Mary Queen of Scots,” which he reeled off to a:
protesting Scottish audience some years ago. In this:
historical mix, the beheading of Mary was accom-
plished by Oliver Cromwell as axeman, whilst Queen:
Elizabeth took a front seat on the platform, and gave:
the signal for the implement to come down.
“J.F.H.”: The rubbish that is written about the
salaries of music-hall stars! Harry Lauder, who is
regarded as the present head of the profession and
the greatest “draw” of the era, has frequently been
reported as making anything from £5OO to £lOOO a.
week. Now he comes out with the frank statement;
that his salary in England is £l2O a week, with a.
bit over when he’s touring in America.
TIME TO GO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The development of the moving picture in three
years has been almost as great as the development of
the stage, so far as technique is concerned, in three
centuries. — Edison’s latest.
Oh, what’s the use!
What’s the excuse
For keeping up a hopeless competition ?
In goes the towel,
No claim of foul—
The stage is fairly beaten to perdition!
The footlights dowse!
A mime’s a mouse:
Spending a life-time his technique to master ;
Dead slow, that pro.,
The picture show
Develops it a hundred times the faster!
Good-bye, the boards!
Farewell, the hoards
Of wealth I dreamed of as a star amassing,
My sun’s gone down,
And round the town,
No more of my art will you find me gassing.
Clean off the paint
For good. It ain’t
Worth salt —the technique of the finest make-up!
It’s Pictures’ race—
Too hot the pace !
I’m licked and no excuses will I fake up.
Ring down the rag!
I’ve packed my bag,
The words of Edison there’s no disproving;
Full well I see
It’s up to me
To emulate the pictures—and be moving.
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
TRIPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My lover was an actor fine ;
In fact, he says he’ll find no other
To beat him in his special line.
He lodged till lately here with mother:.
He franked us to the play one night
To see him act the great Othello
I didn’t see occasion quite
For him to fret so, and to bellow-
I sat it bravely through, and then
To supper Guy with gusto led us
My patience broke completely when
With tripe the villain would have fed ns.
“Avaunt! Your supper we refuse,”
I cried with proper indignation;
“Considering what we’ve borne, this stew’s
Ridiculous supererogation.”
VICTORIA.
JANE ANN.


IF YOU GO AWAY—
THE BAG YOU WANT
DAVID JONES’ LARGE KIT BAG.
The Bag that has found such great favor with all
Men —because so easy to handle, and to open—and
because of its spaciousness. It is really surprising
j the amount it holds. Manufactured from stout Cow-
hide throughout, on strong steel frame,, and fitted
with side lock and end clips. Straps extend right
round, and give extra security.
In the following sizes:—
gi zes . . 20 22 24 inches long.
Price •• -21/= 23/ » 25/“ ,
Superior Quality, on best Steel frame —
Selected Cowhide.
gi zes .. 20 22 24 inches long.
Price •• 26/6 28/6 31/6
ertrytuyuyu
Sent Carriage Paid to
Any Part of Australasia.
axa stkkoP aiAva
Opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
'? ":
■J
:
' ' . ■ ■■■'.
liugelmann s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 pel box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/ 1 (lnclud,-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14=16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; P « Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
MERELY
A SUG-
GESTION.
Ladies , how handy you could make your ha t-
pins by using them for filing your bills on
When shopping. A common cork is all you
need to render a. now dangerous article useful
and harmless.
The mouse that is alleged to have left its
head in a pie which was served to a cus-
tomer in a Melbourne restaurant a while
back is likely to prove an expensive quadru-
ped before it is finally buried. The customer
-—a lady-—seems to have taken the jest seri-
ously, and is suing for £5O damages, and
already several expensive lawyers have piled
up fees in arguing whether the case should
be tried in the County Court or before a
Supreme Court Judge. It was decided to let
the Supreme Court have a go at it. Later
on the question of having a jury or just a
plain Judge will be argued; and finally the
concrete case itself will transpire. It is a
momentous matter in the Law’s eye, as
shown by the writ, which sets forth that
damages are claimed because of the—
Negligence of defendants and their servants in and
about the making, cooking and preparation of and
the selling to the plaintiff of the said pie, intended
for consumption by the plaintiff.
Or, alternatively—
For breach of conditions of warranty by defendants
and their servants, that the said pie as sold and sup-
plied to the plaintiff was reasonably fit for the pur-
pose for which it was supplied, namely, to be eaten
by the plaintiff.
Costs will dine well, mouse or no mouse.
“Singemoiue”: Curious tlie deleterious
effect the game of State politics has
on some people. Take the case of Robson
ML A Outside politics he is supposed
to' be a Pious and highly-conscientious
citizen. He is a notable 1 lymouth
Rock or Roman Methodist, or what-
ever the sect to which he belongs is
called. The writer once heard him pray
passionately through his nose and testi y
with head flung well back and eyes tightly
closed, on a public platform, and was im-
pressed with the earnest way in which lie
performed his bizarre turn. Tet last week
he delivered himself as follows:
If they (the residents of Daceyville) desire,, to so
to the Mountains for a change of air for three months,
they will be unable to do so unless they secure- a
certificate permitting them to go. In fact, an occu-
pier cannot go away for more than one month with-
out forefeiting his cottage. In fact, they have
Daceyville so bound up and iron-barred with drastic
clauses that, if a man were to get out of Darling-
hurst gaol and take one of the cottages, he would be
unaware whether he was in or out of gaol.
Tlie faint glimmer of truth which peers dimly
from the above consists in the fact that if
the whole of a Daceyville family shoots the
moon and takes to the Mountains or else-
where, the Government, after waiting a
month, proposes to resume possession of the
vacated dwelling. The agent of the Robson
estate and Private Enterprise generally
would, in similar circumstances, wait about
half an hour or less, in all likelihood. As re-
gards the remarks about Darlinghurst Gaol,
one can only say that if they didn’t emanate
from so sainted a character as Robson, they
would stand in imminent peril of being de-
nounced as wicked lying. #
The Bunyip Caledonian Society has bad-
gered the Minister of Defence into a promise
that the “Australian Scottish” regiments
shall be permitted to masquerade in skirts on
certain occasions. Their uniform for ordi-
nary training purpose is to be Australian,
but the right to take off their trousers and
tunics and tread an Australian heath in the
garments of Mcßallarat or McMallee will be
granted when the warriors are undertaking
special circus duties. From a medical point
of view this concession by the Defence De-
partment is mildly deplorable. Ten to one
the ants will get at the legs of these skirted
warriors and give them fits.
The letter and lamentation of “Hash-
Tower”
The fraud who sells the “furnished
boarding-house, with boarders, etc., com-
plete,” seems to be busier than usual in
Melbourne. After planking down her
spot cash and taking possession, the lone
widow or the orphan spinster discovers
that the boarders she has bought and
paid for are on the eve of fading away,
or have already faded, while the best
part of the time-payment furniture has
bear carted back to the shop. Linen is
represented by one ragged pillow-case,
and the crockery department contains
one egg-cup in distress. When the un-
lucky buyer sits down with nothing but
the goodwill to keep her company, and
begins to think out the situation, the
owner of the house comes clamoring at
the door, demanding instant departure—-
and that is the last straw. Nobody
comes well out- of the deal except the
agent, and he goes on composing ads.
for the beguilement of the poor soul who
has to fight the world, the flesh and the
Devil on a damp and tricky wicket.
A St. Kilda (Melb.) Jewess fell in badly
last week through defending a suit for
the restoration of some valuable dia-
mond jewellery and 13 lovely golden
sovereigns which her discarded sweet-
heart had given her what time they
were more or less “engaged.” The dis-
carded one was willing to settle the case out
of court by abandoning certain minor tokens
of love to their fate if the spinster would
cough-up the. engagement ring, with its four
nice stones and repay the £l3 cash. But the
little lady declined a compromise. She
pleaded that as an infant of only 19 summers,
she was irresponsible for the presents she
had acquired in the ordinary way of court-
ship. Also, she pleaded that presents were
things to be stuck to, anyhow. Furthermore,
she pleaded that the why and wherefore of
the engagement ring had nothing to do with
the case. Incidentally, her father stated that
his 19-year-old child was quite young enough
to menage her own pizness with her Hebrew
admirer. The Bench ordered the infant to
return all the quids and trinkets she had re-
ceived on account of an implied marriage
contract, and to pay costs to the tune of
£4 10s. Since when all the little Jewesses of
St. Kilda are thinking that it is more profit-
able to fool a Christian Johnnie than to trifle
with the Contract of a Chosen Person.
Farthing, M.L.A., claimed in Melbourne,
the other day, that the United Hotelkeepers’
Association is the finest temperance organi-
sation in Victoria. Some very seasoned
drinkers agree with this view, holding that
they should get twice as long a beer for 3d.
Auckland (M.L.) is celebrating a bit of a
boom by shouting itself a new coat of arms,
which includes a knight’s Ned Kelly helmet,
a few plumes, a crown, a vegetable or two, a
sailing ship, pickaxe, shovel and other domes-
tic furniture, pineapples, spuds and various
other fruits and*a couple of kiwis. At the
bottom of the design is the usual pathetic
appeal of the Maorilander —“Advance.”
THE RETORT SCORNFUL.
THE CANDIDATE (Passionately): “From the day I was 12. I earned my own living! I
owe no man a penny. Gentlemen! I made myself.”
THE VOICE: “Well, you made a mistake.”
The old gibe that woman can’t throw
straight has been put forward as a serious
defence in the Adelaide Police Court. The
lady had smashed a big electric "lobe with a
stone, and her lawyer claimed that it was all
an accident. The fact that she hit it, he
said, proved that she didn’t mean to. The
Court declined to accept this libel on the sex,
and remarked “Two-pounds-one-and-six-or-1 x-
days.” Possibly the fact that it had already
met her about 30 times had something to do
with the decision.
GETTING DOWN 'TO DETAILS.
“ Now that we are engaged you will let me call
you Gertie.”
“If you really want to—but my real name is
Susan.”
The officials of Pentridge (Vic.) are a
thrifty people; consequently, whensome 40
prisoners were lately attacked with what
looked suspiciously like ptomaine poisoning,
and certain food was diagnosed as the cause,
they spurned the thought of wasting it, and
decided that it would do for the pigs, of which
there are some hundreds on'the “Government
farm.” It did for them all right. Next day
those prisoners who weren’t in hospital had
to bury 120 prime porkers; and administer
emetics and other condiments to about 100
others. The usual official- inquiry is now
proceeding, and is ‘expected to throw no light
on the subject. .
“Trotter” among the tombs :
Two or three miles beyond Eltham, in the forest
that pushes closest to Melbourne, you may discover
Rose Chapel, and find its surroundings full of inter-
est. Anthony Beale was paymaster at St. Helena up
to 1834, when he. retired on a pension of. £5OO a
vear. He lived eight years in England, and came to
Melbourne in 1842. Being well-to-do he bought land
near Eltham, then utterly in the bush, and estab-
lished a farm, with a good many dependents, so that
a village was formed, which he named St. Helena.
When Rose, his wife, died he built Rose Chapel, as
a memorial —a most beautiful little place. It has
ever since been used by the Anglican denomination.
There are a number of tombstones around, among
them ohe over the
grave of Graham
Webster, who had
been Police Magis-
trate at Bendigo.
The Webster in-
scription is puzz-
ling. It says he
was “The last of
his race, after con-
tinuing for 749
years unbroken
from father to
son.” Beale was
in St. Helena in
Napoleon’s- time,
and abounded in
gr a phic recollec-
tions. His em-
ployers were the
East India Co.,
which held St.
Helena for nearly
200 years. He
used to tell how
St. Helena people
had no notice of
Napoleon’s coming
except that H.M.S.
Icarus brought the
news two days be-
fore the Bellero-
phon arrived. On
landing, Napoleon
slept for a night
i n the house o f
one Balcombe, where Wellington had slept as he was
returning from India. On the night that Napnleon
slept there, Wellington slept in Napoleon’s Elysee
Palace, in Paris.
The blundering linotype may save money
in the printing office, but it drops many a
gray hair on to the boss’s head. There was
a maintenance case at Broken Hill the other
day, in the course of which the plaintiff told
a sorry tale of how she had just popped out
and stayed a few minutes longer than she
meant to, and found another woman in the
house when she got back. Her husband was
nursing the baby, she added. But the dread-
ful linotype made it that he was nursing the
lady. Then, to add to the woes of the house-
hold, another paper, which hadn’t been listen-
ing, transcribed the first paper’s report and
put it more bluntly that the unregenerate
wretch was nursing “the woman.” After
which there was another dust storm at
Broken Hill.
THE FLESHPOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
... .We wake up some morning surprised at the
shocking condition we have fallen into. I have re-
cently noticed among, the Manly surf-bathers a negli-
gence of the rule about “neck to knee” bathing dress.
Too many bathers are to be seen with attenuated
garments, which diminish almost to a piece of string
in places.— Extract from, an infuriated letter in the
S. M. Herald.
Shocking! Blot out the awful sight from me —
The dreadful lack of robe from neck to knee!
The very sharks are blushing’ in the foam
At such defilement of their turquoise home!
Preposterous! Disgraceful, unclothed sin!
To let the sunbeams loiter on the skin!
I’ve really got to turn away my head
Lest into dire temptation I be led!
I read my book, and roll my outraged eyes
Toward the furthest corner of the skies ;
But, now and then, to ease the skyward strain,
I’m forced to view the sacrilege again!
I am a True Believer; but I think
That God’s design developed quite a kink,
When maidens were not born each with a dress,
To hide their sinful, shameful nakedness.
Besides (for flesh is weak), were I to tire
Of placing such- a curb on my desire,
I might be lured to the Satanic spray,
And (thrilling thought!) be Lost the same as they.
Oh, send them clothes —to hide from me the Flesh ;
No gauzy gown that will my eyes enmesh —-
For all my saintliness is on the wing
Since I’ve been gazing on that piece of string!
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


I
IGHT
HAP
WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
Sunlight Soap has once
been tried.
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NO. 67.
A POPULAR SHIRT
Vj
l
i\WV
Our Cr6pe Shirt is decidedly a Shirt that appeals
to men of good ideas in seasonable dressing. For the
last three seasons it has been immensely popular,
and is being again called for this year.
We make this Shirt in, our own workrooms —in
two favorite styles—with loose double collars and
short cuffs, or with stiff neckband and cuffs—very
choice designs in CrCpe—fully shrunken, and laun-
dering as soft as silk.
By reason of its reliability and all-round excel-
lence, it has found many patrons all over Australia.
Please stale size when ordering.
Posted, 6d. extra.
PEAPES fCO., LTD.
“ Men’s Outfitters,"
309-311 George St,, SYDNEY
The N.S.W. Equity Bar is sharpening its
teeth before getting to the most deli-
cious roast that has come its way for years.
Adrian Knox, Ganger Owen and Shand,
Iv.C.’s, with Harvey, Maughan and Mann,
are all in a case which is going to decide, it
is hoped, an interesting point in company
law. Forty years ago the Sydney Meat Pre-
serving Co. was formed by Alban Gee, a
meat-packer, who struck a very ingenious
idea. He roped in most of the big stock-
growers on the representation that a meat-
preserving co. would be a fine thing for the
squatter insomuch that it would prevent a
glut in the market. Further, it was arranged
that the stock-growers should voluntarily
allow this co. a rebate of l-Bd. per lb., the
effect of which would be that when the co.
thought a beast was really worth £5 it would
be able to bid £5 ss. or thereabouts, and any-
body else would have to bid £5 6s. to get the
beast. This meant, and still means, that as
long as the Sydney Meat Preserving Co. is
in the market, outside buyers have to outbid
a fictitious bid. The co. probably doesn’t
want to make profits ; obviously, the more it
pays for stock the less its profits, and the
more it pays for one beast the more it makes
other people pay for perhaps 20 beasts. So
it has never declared a dividend in all its 40
years. That was all very well while the
shareholders were all squatters or stock-deal-
ers, who make more commission the more
the stock fetches ; but it happened that an
accountant named Miles inherited such a
swag of the scrip that now he owns, person-
ally and jointly, one-fifth of all the shares
in the co.; and, seeing that he hasn’t
got a hoof of stock, he doesn’t get a
farthing out of the concern, directly or indi-
rectly, though his portion of the assets would
be about £22,500. And that is what all the
Equity trouble is about. Miles says the co.
ought to pay dividends if it makes profits
(sometimes it doesn’t seem able to avoid
them) ; the co. says it needn’t pay divs. if it
has a prejudice against those animals; a,nd
now the Courts are to be asked, at great ex-
pense, what they say.
* * * *
“Barnacle”: A Hobart genius named
Brown claims to have invented a clock-
driven brush, which will clean a ship’s under-
neath parts while its cargo is being worked
at a wharf. Tests have been made with al-
leged success, and marine superintendents,
THE ETERNAL FEMININE.
H E: “ May I send your parcel?”
S HE: “Ah, yes, please! You know I DO dis-
like carrying anything
shipmasters and engineers have hailed Brown
with great joy. If the patent pos-
Sesses only half the virtues sworn to, no
man knoweth the resulting possibilities,
Every large steamer docks at least once in
six months, and when the docking charges,
loss of running time, interruption of work
and cost of expensive anti-fouling paints are
calculated, it will be seen what an enormous
saving, a polishing brush like Brown’s would
make in a year. I reckon it would reduce
dockwork, alone, by 80 per cent., and drive
capital out of the patent anti-fouling com-
positions. And there’s a tidy bit moored to
them.
THE MONOPOLIST.
LITTLE WILLIE (during the third ballet): “By gum, mum, you were right last night
about dad gettin' too fond of his glass.”
One of the ancient institutions of George-
street, ' Sydney, is to be disturbed. For
half a century Elvy and Co., music-sellers,
have been in premises built on what, befdre
their day, was part of the old Barrack
Square; but the site has grown too valuable
for the building, so the whole lot has gone
under the hammer, and been knocked down
for £25,000 —an advance of 150 per cent, in
50 years.
Says a writer in the Maoriland Worker:
Those who are opposing the compulsory military
service scheme do so because they love their country
too well to wish to see it under the heel of mili-
tarism.
Well, many years ago when the various
tribes of Maoriland were comparatively in
the same state of warlike tension as the
various tribes of the world
are to-day, there was one
tribe living on the isolated
Chatham Islands. These
people were studiously op-
posed to military training; in
fact,* they looked upon war
with horror, and just as the
Worker and a few other
estimable theorists are to-
day, were ready to proclaim
a general strike against it.
These glad tidings reached
the ears of a section of the
Ngatiawa tribe, which went
in for military training at
Wellington like Old Henry.
The Ngatiawas promptly
Chartered the English brig
Rodney and proceeded to
make inquiries on the spot.
So satisfied were they with
the peaceful nature of the
islanders that the expedition
remained there for two
years, and during that time
it devoured all but 200 of a
population of nearly 2000.
The others Avere saved up for
a rainy- day. That was about
75 years ago, but the moral
of the story isn’t showing
any sign of old age. In
fact, it seems to be as young
as eveiv-
“Bobstay”: Another tragedy has been
added to the recent series of sea casualties
on the N.S.W. coast by the loss of the Paris,
which capsized somewhere off Newcastle
about February 9. The Paris was that freak
of marine architecture known as a scow, of
which class there are a few running in the
N.S.W. and Maoriland timber trade. Built
without a keel, on the model of a wooden
matchbox with two upright sticks, these con-
traptions draw but a few feet when loaded,
and are thus enabled to stagger over the
sandbar of the little port which is so much
used because the big port is so often kept
shut up. Against a sudden squall the odds
against safety are about five to one, and in
the case of the Paris that was the exact
dividend. Bookmaker David Jones made his
bet, as usual, in lives, and had a “skinner.”
The N.S.W. Government’s Royal Jaunting
Commission to collect evidence re the Tote
appears to be striking some odd specimen
witnesses in Melbourne just now. One
Ernest Y. Goller offered himself to the Com-
mission as a volunteer testifier. Ernest, who
said he had private me'ans, a knowledge of
training horses, a practical experience of
“fielding,” and a thorough acquaintance with
the racing game, “objected to the Tote be-
cause it would keep men like himself off the
course.” Also, Ernest “Ventured to say that
nine out of 10 people in Victoria were in
favor of the tote because they were all look-
ing for the big dividends.*’ He was an amus-
ingly amazing withess, but he didn’t produce
any evidence as to-why the N.S.W. Govern-
ment was running an expensive commission
to hear him mention that nine people out of
10 were naturally in favor of the thing he
objected to. An'bther unaccountable witness
in Melbourne was the “Superintendent of the
Social Reform Bureau,” who merely came to
say that “gambling for money on races
ought not to. be indulged in,” but all sport
should be. conducted on “the system taught
by Mr. Judkins and his social reformers.” Is
the Royal Jaunting Commission making a
collection of unconscious jokes, or what?
With reference to the fire at the Cerebos Salt
works at Greatham, County Durham, we learn that
on the day following the outbreak, large temporary
works were secured, where the company is re-com-
mencing full operations. The manufacture of the
salt itself was not seriously interfered with by the
fire. Large new works, now nearing completion on
the company’s salt estate, at Greatham, were fortu-
nately saved. Owing to a failure of the public water
supply during the fire, the Cerebos Co.’s own fire
brigade switched on to their brine reservoirs, and about
1000 tons of brine were pumped upon the burning
buildings, the fire not being extinguished for several
“Our wives should be our cooks,” says a
Melbourne city parson. Let us see, who is
it sends cooks?
* * * *
“Leeton” is the banality selected as the
name to be bestowed on the model township
in Riverina to be built by the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment in connection with the irrigation
scheme at Yanco. This is in honor of Solemn
Lee, who happened 'to be Public Works Min-
ister when the project was started. In view
of the obvious fact that the McGowen Gov-
ernment will never catch the ’bus, a more ap-
propriate name would have been “Leeway.”
A few remarks from “10-2-4” : The pomp
and majesty of the Law are invoked on frail
grounds betimes, but the limit was about
reached last week, when Michele Blunno, an
elderly Italian, was haled before a Sydney
Quarter Sessions Judge and jury, and
charged with “maliciously sending to Archi-
bald James Windeyer a letter threatening to
kill him and other persons at Raymond Ter-
race, he (Blunno) knowing the contents of
the letter.” It appeared from the evidence
that away back in 1900, Blunno became en-
amored of a female member of the Windeyer
family. He was “definitely refused by her
in 1906.” In 1912, the full horror of the
position dawned on him. He accordingly,
procured pen and paper, and weighed in with
a typically Dago effusion, in which such
phrases appeared as :
She will find that the last act of the too-long-
drawn farce will be the catastrophe of a tragedy. . ..
Last Sunday afternoon I wept long and bitterly. I
who had never wept before. Deceived in my purest
affection, because I did love her. Oh, yes, I did
50... . Darkness grows around me; but blood I want
to see, and will see it red, warm, thick. My hate
for you all grows hourly, etc., etc.
There are at least two sound reasons why
the Law, the Windeyer family and the com-
munity generally might safely have directed
the chill eye of incredulity on the distracted
vaporings of Blunno. In the first place, he
is plainly an intensely' gradual person. A
man who falls in-love in 1900, waits < six
years before he appreciates that his passion
is not returned, and then takes another six
years to get really annoyed about it, is not
the sort to expiate his fancied wrongs by
means of any hurried, immediate massacre.
At the worst, the holocaust at Raymond Ter-
race and environs would not have begun, in
all likelihood, for another 10 or 15 years.
By that time, Blunno might have been dead,
or too old and stout and feeble and short-
sighted to find, catch and butcher anyone.
There is the further consideration —-accepted
as an axiom by modern sociologists—that no
one is so completely innocuous as he who
talks blood. The citizen who implores the
bystanders to let him get at the foe in order
that he may tear out the latter’s heart,
liver, etc., invariably does absolutely nothing
when released. The man to watch, in times
of stress and uproar, is the quiet, inarticu-
late bloque—a type that is liable after brood-
ing silently apart for a space, suddenly, and
without warning, to produce a length of gas-
piping or what not, smite someone senseless,
and gently fade away. In finding Blunno
not guilty of sending the letter, which his
own counsel admitted he did send, the jury
really passed a v><te of censure on those who
were responsible for his prosecution. The
verdict meant. :n effect, that Blunno was a
harmless foreigner, guilty of nothing more
than an emotional temperament, one who, in
a reasonable community, should be permitted
a little blither now and then, for his health’s
sake.
SIGHT SEERS.
The shelter sheds erected by the South Melbourne
City Council are totally inadequate to accommodate
the bathers, many of whom are forced to undress
and dress in the open. —News item.
The Wowser and the. rake make holiday.
The Law comes to the point with great
difficulty. A man was arrested at Fitzroy
(Vic.), the other day, and charged with sell-
ing obscene photographs. But the Law
dared not put it like that; it could only ex-
press its indignation by charging him —
That he, being a scandalous and evil-disposed
person, and devising, contriving, and intending the
morals of divers liege subjects of our lord the King
to debauch, and corrupt, and to raise and create in
their minds inordinate and lustful desires unlawfully,
wickedly, maliciously, and scandalously, did on Janu-
ary 17 sell, utter, and publish to one John Joseph
Hoare two lewd, wicked, scandalous, and obscene
photographs, to the manifest corruption of the
morals of divers liege subjects of our said lord the
King, in contempt of his laws, to the evil example
of all others in like case offending, and against the
peace of our lord the King, his crown, and dignity.
Anyway, what nonsense it all is! In such
cases, the trader probably doesn’t care two
straws whether he debauches and corrupts
George’s lieges or not. He is in much the
same position as the other sinful trader who
sells the toy painted with bright green poison
for baby to suck off. All the man wants in
either case is the money; beyond that, he
has, in general, no intention one way or the
other —whatever the truth may be in this
particular case.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
ON STRIKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Seven local preachers of Castlemaine (Victoria)
threatened to strike unless their claims were granted.
The Superintendent stood firm, and the preachers
went out to a man, with the result that the pulpits
were all empty on Sunday last —a phenomenally hot
day.— Age.
There were some gallant preacher men who lived
in Castlemaine,
They swore to battle for their rights or die a-raising
Cain ;
And so they sent a mandate fierce unto their mighty
Boss:
“Now see you do our bidding straight, or yours will
be the loss.
“For if ye do not knuckle down, we vow with holy
vim
We will not preach the sermon, and we will not
sing the hymn ;
We will not hurl the usual curse at,,Satan’s horny
pate;
We will not chide the sinner, and we will not pass
plate.”
So when the Sabbath came around the pulpits empty
stood.
And all the worshippers in sight were benches made
of wood,
And no one made a sermonette on Bashan’s monarch,
Og,
And no one scalped Beelzebub or thundered at the
grog.
A preacher stood a-picketing beside the chapel door,
To see that no one “scabbing” went until the strike
was o’er;
And if you wanted wedding or a grave beneath the
grass,
The strikers grimly blocked you and refused to let
you pass..
But sultry was the weather then and deadly was the
heat, >
And loads of pious citizens, who found that they
were beat
In trying to get entrance by the customary door,
Put in that burning Sabbath with a happy Sabbath
snore.
And when the strike was over, and the shepherds
drifted back,
They found the sheep had wandered from the old
familiar track ;
No longer do they nod it underneath the parson’s
nose,
But home on their verandahs they have their Sunday
doze.
QUEENSLAND.
A JUDDITE.


UT FVevgn S?y : *Ha l VoT*
0 a +«»'
a rv\3v|p *.
limbs l
7 ——
f>lz*ns! Vc f "
m oil"
e n^fkg_e
Maidame's M
services.
According to the Dally Telegraph ,
Lieutenant Sharveder, a German officer,
will be shortly tried by court-martial
on a charge of having accepted £SODO
from a Russian secret agent for a plan
of the fortress at Posen. Finding that
it 'Was impossible to purloin a plan, a
girl named Ada Mullerthal, to whom
Sharveder was engaged to be married,
suggested that a copy of it should be
tatooed on her shoulders. This was
done, and the girl, travelling to Russia,
received the money.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN POLL.
|f they took the top Labor man and the
top Opposition man In the whole dis-
tricts, the Labor party had to-day a
majority of 3292. The fact that these
figures had not been reflected in a ma-
jority in the Assembly was due entirely
to the bad arrangement of the districts,
which enabled the vote In one district
to count for a great deal more than the
vote In another district.
|Mr
sjgstn j?elTtTor7
(\ otter? FT?
Cupid : Did you krtotO
Feb. "TWe |our-
"feerTTW u)as
ValerfTfrces ?
Up Aos.
v WalenTtrie 1
\ vino's be?
* a r?euJ
bouoler ? “
ertrytuyuyu
An announcement that wUII be wel-
comed is made elsewhere by the Direc
Fish Supply Company that it has now
in operation a mail order system, y
which fish direct from the sea may be
d ‘livered to a customer’s door In town
or country. Upon receipt of an order
the fish will be cleaned, prepared for
cooking, suitably packed, and then,
posted.
"A mr i"T an
v.ctSry 1 ”,
A. LAB O^FAKTy
/VV.o\
•ci
C^ e ft
v> <5 <e.* C^
%°
*V %
<r
/\dottTe<" &»cnj.ice.
-f3 -fVe Demor7
luow ■ "*
A )<£PiijßU£, |
_££ f ; oR£‘VSD
T*ui»u
>xv< A
/vyoN-m
jiY OKJCCt^
\-rt\S. AgPlcATlN<4 £Vtf£iW«
Declare all strikes Illegal, and provide
Ithat upon a strike occurring the funds
of the union or unions concerned and
of all unions subscribing In support shall
be penalised so much per member per
day during the continuance of the strike.
Further provide that the salaries, re-
muneratlon or allowances of every
official connected with any such union
shall be absolutely forfeited during the
continuance of such strike.— " Lawyer”
in Argus
BoT* hou> /
rm?c>t 'j
e-ffcc^Nje 'to J
Vfavje rj
9^ -T
/ :
L»110*75 cooKeCt
■ttye \
kands (Z
Common
bart^nriar?/
Hi
>sr o/f
MANY INVENTIONS.


NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. [i
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
Enormously.
Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l4.
Selected Diamonds
in Platinum Setting,
£lO/10/=
Choice Diamonds
in Platinum
Setting, £2O.
Some months ago we started the experiment of selling diamonds at a broker’s commission
on landed cost, and we purpose continuing to do so for a further six months.
We have taken on a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we are offering
the best-class diamonds at prices never before attempted.
We think the increase of customers and the great advertisement will pay us eventually.
Plain
Figures.
Cash.
Fairfax £ Roberts, Limited,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Mallarapoonie”: Mention by “S. Short-
horn” (B. 11/1/’l2) of the vagaries of lightning re-
calls an incident that happened on the Hughenden-
Winton-road in the old days before the advent of the
motor-lorry and the railway in Western Queensland.
A huge dust-begrimed waggon, piled high with wool
and in the tow of 20 bullocks, was trailing its slow
reptilian way across the blacksoil plains what time
a lightning storm gathered in the adjacent sky.
Great splatters of rain had just began to fall, when a
streak of Forked Death leaped out of a lowering
cloud, and, with fearful concussion, struck the long
iron tow-chain immediately behind the leading steers.
It raced down the long avenue of cattle, turning the
tow-chain into a dazzling streak of molten gold, and,
by way of the iron draw-rods, reached the great steel
fore-axle. There, baffled by finding its metal conduit
ended, it took the shortest route to earth, and tore five
spokes out of the near front wheel. The non-conductive
properties of the tallow-wood yokes probably saved
the life of every bullock in the team. As it was, half
of them went down stunned or terror-stricken, but
that did not disturb the buliocky so much as the fact
that his near front wheel was splintered to match-
wood. His remarks when he discovered that disaster
were such as to make even the lightning hide its
blushes behind the cloud curtain.
* * * *
“Clancy’s”: “The Pariah” (B. 18/1/T2)
recommends the use of sheep-dip in cases where
the human hair is falling out gradually. So do 1.
I know a lady who tried it. It stopped the gradual
fall all right. After one or two applications the'
thatch came off in a heap. She didn’t think this
an advantage, but “The Pariah” may have other
ideas.
WANDERING JEWS
“It seems ter me, Bill, we just swags an' swags from ’ere ter there, an’ when we gets there,
we only swags away from there."
“Cooliba” : Please don’t consider me
brusque, but I sit down to suggest that “Pic” is
inexact, and “Mclntyre” more or less a liar. Former
says a carpet snake caught a ’roo rat in 40yds. I
have a dog that can catch any snake that ever
crawled, and do it inside syds. Any other old dog
can do the same. But not one tyke in a thousand
can catch the ’roo rat, which is one of the fleetest
brutes of the bush. We won’t discuss “Mclntyre’s”
brown six-footer that did 30yds. inside evens. I
saw that snake up North once. Bung let him out
of a bottle, and he was so swift that he caught
Flash Ned’s horse, and swallowed him after eating
Edward’s cheque.
“Tekelo”: Having read the Papuan
epistle of “X.P.D.” (B. 21/12/’ll), I feel the call to
make a few remarks. The Port Moresby natives,
though by no means weedy specimens, are certainly
a tourist-spoilt crowd, as “X.P.D.” says. he is
wrong when he mentions “tourisms’ tobacco” as being
partly the cause. Tourists’ shillings were nearer the
mark. Our pampered brown brother has progressed
far from his simple tobacco currency and generous
ways, and to-day a fish, or even a humble cocoanut,
is invoiced at a shilling by the fuzzy banditti. That
is why Port Moresby is mostly a fishless hamlet these
days. Backsheesh is plentiful at steamer-time, and
I have seen five feet of brown vanity (and male at
that!) paid five shillings for the privilege of having
his photograph taken by a tripper. As for the alleged
awful homesickness and anguished exile which na-
tive labor has to endure in Papua, it is largely a
myth. Amongst others, I have worked a gang of
“Orekawa” boys from the Northern Division (better
cannot be procured in Papua), and these boys, in
addition to their alleged homesickness, had the de-
pressing circumstance of a dysentery epidemic in
their camp. Yet the singing and dancing of those
exiled heathens could be heard even above the for-
tissimo of the mosquito choir. Also, it is stretching
the case too far to compare the short, paid service
of the Papuan plantation nigger “to the life of
Johnson’s American ancestors.” The Papuan works
50 hours a week, finishing at noon on Saturday. He
then mostly grabs his spear, and, with a wild shout,
disappears into the jungle in search of sport and
pig; others of him spend the week end visiting
friends on neighboring plantations. Although the
general poorness and I-eould-do-with-a-good-feed look
of a batch of new recruits is proverbial, it is hard to
recognise them a few months later in the good-con-
ditioned boys one meets on the plantations. The
planter gives his boys more than the Government-
fixed rations, not because he loves them, but because
the absurdly short one-year term of service which
prevails in Papua necessitates the constant recruit-
ing of fresh labor; and the man who has a name for
good kai-lcai and good treatment stands a better
chance in the scratching for scarce nigger than the
man who makes the lives of his people miserable.
There are very few of the latter kind of fool in
modern, hustling Papua. It doesn’t pay—and that
is the last word in all arguments.
“Stingaree”: I’m prepared to accept the
word of “A.Y.A.” (B. 18/1/’l2) that his porcupine
is a fully certificated underground engineer, but
I’ll bet him all the beer he can nail down in an
hour that cane-beetles will plant themselves under
the surface in quicker time than any other animals
or insects on this planet. Watch a beetle-catcher
in a N.Q. sugar district, when he shakes the insects’
leafy residence, and notice how frantically be grabs
the pests off the ground and chucks them into his tin.
The reason of this extreme haste is that the instanf
the beetle drops on the ground he goes towards the
centre of the earth at the rate of one inch per
lOsec., and, if there is many of him, the clouds of
dust thrown skyward by his hind claws darken . the
sun, so that even the oldest inhabitant-rooster retires
to his broom-stick couch to ruminate on the remark-
able rapidity with which time flies.
*** ' " *
“Tamumn” : The up-to-date business mind
of the younger Maoris (mentioned B. 4/l/’l2), .is
forcing, itself .on the pakeha’s attention in matters ,
other than politics/ this season the greater pro-
portion Of the sheafing in the Hawke’s Bay district
has been done on contract by natives. They ar-
ranged a price per hundred, found shearers, shed
hands, expert cook and tucker;- the station supply-
ing shed, engine and machines. In most instances
the squatter provided the wool-classer, but in one
shed that I know of, a Maori girl acted in that
capacity. One half-caste had three gangs working
for him during the past three months, and most of
his time was spent‘on a motor-bike, journeying from
gang to gang to see that everything was going
smoothly. In previous years, shearing time was
regarded by the Maoris as a sort of annual picnic.
From an adjoining pa, the shearing gang would
descend on the station and practically take charge.
Accompanying it were piccaninnies, aged relations,
Maori-pakehas, alleged dogs, horses galore, and
even pigs. The station was compelled to feed all
those deadheads if the shearing was to be put
through, and also to employ more shed hands than
were necessary. Under this system the loafing policy
flourished. Under contract the opposite is the case,
for, the sooner the shearing is completed, the more
everyone makes. As a consequence, the new condi-
tions mean fast shearers, fewer shed hands, and no
deadheads, alleged dogs or pigs. Both squatters
and shearers seem to favor the innovation; so, in all
probability, it has come to stay.
A FELLOW FEELING.
DEALER: “So Spotty don't suit yer, eh? Why, that dogs got a pedigree
MR. ENPEC: “Oh, the pedigree's ail right; bat the dog suffers from the same trouble as
myself. We're both afraid of my wife."
“Billy T.”: Matty Ives and Willie Wil-
liams, the Welshman at Cressy Creek, had been
enemies for 20 years or more. Matty Ives was a
bachelor, living a mile or so up the slope of Mount
Goat, through the thick, straight, lance-like young
white gums of the timber reservation. Willie Wil-
liams hgd a wife, and, it was generally supposed
among the scattered population of Batoola East that
her hatred for Ives was even greater than the bitter
enmity “Taffy” entertained for that hkd map. Matty
and Taffy never fought, and never called in the law.
Their feud was one of thieving and recrimination.
They stole from each other anything that could be
shifted, and when they canie within hearing distance,
poured out streams of furious abuse. Their thieving
competition excited much interest in Baloola East.
When Williams Stole Ives* cow, Ives got away with
Willie’s old black horse. Williams carried off Matty’s
pig-trough, and Matty stole, an arm-ehair from
Willie’s verandah. Then eaoh stole the other’s pig.
Mutual thefts of poultry followed, and it was rec-
koned in Baloola East that Williams had a large
credit balance when he got away with a small, por-
table separator belonging to Ives. Then suddenly
the district was thrilled to the core by the amazing
audacity of Ives in purloining Mrs. Williams. How
it came about nobody knew, but it was common
knowledge that Mrs. Williams was living in Matty’s
bark humpy up the slope, and giving every indica-
tion of being quite at home there. Matty was now
admitted to be leading on poinfs. Taffy accepted the
situation as usual, and endeavored to equalise mat-
ters by a few minor thefts, but ho important de-
velopment occurred for three months. Then Mrs.
Williams returned to her home. This, it was after-
wards ascertained, was the result of a mutual agree-
ment. The parties had met and come to an honor-
able understanding. Ives had returned Williams’s
wife, and had received in exchange his black cattle-
dog Paddy.
“Ivaree”: Re “Rekrow’s” query (B.
18/1 /’X2) : A “combo” in U.S.A. and West Indies
parlance is a piebald nigger whose female progeni-
tor has no visible male means of support.
“Tiaki” : Re “P.F.’s” inquiry for albinos
(B. 25/l/’l2), I knew a family of Maori albinos,
who lived on the summit of the Land o’ Quakes:
A year after Henare’s marriage, Mrs. Henare offered
him a white infant, smiling a heavenly smile as
she did so. Henare immediately left home, and
spent the next few weeks savagely expressing his
opinion of the all-pervading white man. Subse-
quently a reconciliation was effected, and 12 months
later Meri offered her spouse another flour-faced off-
spring—a girl. Henare’s indignant bellows again
rang hut over the gum-fields, and *he left once
more. Subsequently a party of elders explained the
korakorako (albino) freak to him, and Henare again
dubiously returned. When Mrs. Henare’s third of-
fence took place he began to look upon it resignedly
as a coincidence or a habit or something. I knew the
eldest well. He was whiter than the fairest Scan-
dinavian, and lazier than Tired Tim. His eyes
were pink and his hair silvery white; and he earned
his shark and spud by preaching the white man’s
gospel to a credulous crowd that regarded him as “a
gift from God.”
“Te Ruruku”: The statement of “Anthro-
pop” (B. 18/1/’l2), that a missionary had seen
some Papuans drinking the essence of dead relative,
recalls an opinion I formed long ago that rotten
animal matter produces by fermentation some sort
of alcohol. In the town in Britain wherein my
youthful days were wasted, there was a particular
drinking fountain, which was in great demand on
account of the delicious water it dispensed. • One
day it stopped running, and it was found that the
pipes, where they ran for some distance through an
old church-yard, were broken. Years afterwards, in
Maoriland, a surveyor invited me to his camp to
taste the extra-quality water from his creek. I did,
and then headed up stream. Less than half a mile
up we found the remains of an old boar. Knew a
publica-n who sold more beer than any other two
bush merchants in his town, until it leaked out that
a couple of pounds of raw steak were always kept
in each cask. The Romans fed lampreys with -hupiati
flesh, and the Maoris on special occasions dug up the
bodies of their enemies and picked the bones that
had been overlooked by, the worms. Altogether, it
would appear that the disgust felt by some people,
because other people eat putrid flesh, or drink me
soup from it, is largely a matter of prejudice. Any-
how, at the worst, it couldn’t be as bad as some
of the putrid politics we get served out occasionally.
“Billy T” : This is the sad, true tale of
William and James. William was the not-too-dis-
tressingly-good cousin; James was the prodigal with
only a benevolent uncle intervening between him anid
the husks. The chief weakness of James was whisky,
but it would become rum on the slightest provoca-
tion, or even beer. Came a time when the family
conclave decided that an inebriates’ retreat was the
place for James. William was set apart to take a
controlling interest in his cousin, and keep him, if
not square, at least something approaching the ob-
long, pending the necessary steps to enforce six
months’ privacy. Faithfully William observed his
trust, and on the day appointed, with the necessary
documents in his pocket, and James under his right
wing, he departed for the retreat. It was at the
urgent request'of James that they travelled per boat.
Steamer transport is conducive to thirst. James was
allowed “just one” by way of tempering the drought
to the dry lamb. William took one to prove he was
no Wowser. Repeat nine times, with the left elbow
on the bar. William recollected almost everything next
morning when he awoke in a strange place among
peculiar people, and found he was a lodger in an in-
ebriate asylum, where everybody had some cherished
delusion, and where it was quite taken for granted
that his pet error was the idea that he was William
Smith, whereas he had been left, as James Smith,
with documents attesting his identity and the nature
of his complaint. A week passed before William
could secure official recognition of the mistake that
had been made. Meanwhile, James was enjoying yet
another revel that left a red glow in the atmosphere
of a neighboring seaside resort.
SKIN DISEASES,
Including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chil-
blains, Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have
their Remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold
in triangular pots at 1/6 and 3/-.*
DISSATISFIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Notwithstanding the recent increase, the men are
still dissatisfied. —Amazed announcement.
Dismay is on the Tory’s face,
His eyes are opened round and wide;
He mumbles all about the place,
“Good God! They’re still dissatisfied!”
The Club perceives his startled mien,
And crowds to hear him have his say,
How willing he has ever been
To give Them seven bob a day.
Yes, while they stumbled without cease
Through jobs their backs will not forget,
He gave them seven bob a-piece,
And every bob was twelvepence net.
And when, with wolfish, hungry eyes
They came and clamored round his gate,
Being benevolent and wise,
He raised their seven bob to eight.
Lives there a man so greedy-souled,
So filled with sordid lust of gain,
That in his pocket he can hold
Eight bob at once, and still complain?
Alas, that filthy lucre throws
Its spell round beings once divine!
The ravening beast turns up his nose
At eight, and dares to ask for nine.
And he whose name is Dividend
Still finds a place wherein to hide
And moan: “When will this horror end
And when will They be satisfied?”'
VICTORIA.
L.


20th Century Moleskin.
Registered Trade Mark.
((WARRANTED PURE COTTON?}!
See that the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Garments can be obtained at all Storekeepers.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
HEADACHES.
Many suffer severely with headaches, but they will
derive great benefit from a course of Laxo-Tonie
Pills. The well-known laxative and tonic properties
of these pills are of wonderful effect in purifying
the blood, and toning up the system. Price, 10ld.
and 1/6.*
PLASMON COCOA
“A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary__Cocoa."
—British Medical Journal.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
.*■■;>/ * ..i
“Warrumbucca” : Bill, from Burra Burra
station was dying in the best bedroom in the pub,
having been badly smashed by a fall from his horse,
after four days’ strenuous beer-shifting. With him
was the doctor, although he knew the case was hope-
less, and at the doorway was the scared face of the
publican. It was the first thing Bill saw when he re-
gained consciousness, and with extraordinary pre-
sence of mind he addressed it thus: “Beer, long
beer.” “Orright, Bill,” replied the grog dispenser,
withdrawing hurriedly at a sign from the doctor.
After an interval of a minute or so Bill jerked out:
“Tell the bloke to hurry with me beer. It’s gettin’
near closin’-up time.” Another interval of waiting,
then Bill: “If that cow don’t hurry I won’t get me
bloomin’ drink at all.” And with that versatile remark
William took down the signboard which set forth that
he had for many years been licensed to consume fer-
mented and spirituous liquors, and closed the front
door of earth.
When Kennerley liumford, tfiara Butt's
husband, was in S’Africa lately, he passed a good
deal of his time looking for photographic subjects.
_ Visiting a plantation outside Durban, he brought his
camera to bear on the crowd of native workers, and
the manager ordered them to group for a picture.
The men made no ado about it, but the women flatly
objected to being photographed' as “frights.” If they
were to look their best they must put off their rags,
they said, and be their own graceful selves. In fact,
they refused to pose in any but their natural state.
So Rumford got some lovely pictures of the nude
charmers, whilst Mrs. Clara Rumford, presumably,
went through a form of looking the other way. Thus
was civilisation put to shame by those honest colored
ladies, displaying their figures for all they were
worth, in the modest assurance that they had nothing
ugly to hide. A few million respectable white
women, perhaps, have the feeling that they would
prefer to show a bold front to the camera, and make
the prettiest photo, they are capable of —but Civili-
sation forbids. Nevertheless, Civilisation is secretly
conscious of being an immodest humbug.
“Bilbax”: “Exile” (B. 25/1/12) says
“Coo-ee” is the nigger’s call to the cattle in the
southern States of America. For all that, the
cry is native to Australia. White borrowed it from
black; and black probably adopted it from the
coo-ee bird, a fruit-eating nuisance in Queensland—
about the size of the leather-head, glossy black and
red-eyed. Even those familiar with this bird will
fail to distinguish its call, at a distance, from the
human coo-ee; and much unnecessary vocal and
pedestrian exercise is often the result. If Americans
are using the coo-ee, they probably have borrowed it,
as they have done many other useful things, from
Australia; and the recency of its adoption is, I con-
sider, effectively established by its entire absence
from American literature. In its efficiency for
long-distance work, “Coo-ee” can give “Hi, there,”
“Halloo,” “What ho,” “Ahoy” and other imported
calls 440yds. start and a beating. Next to it in
this respect (I’d place it on the 220yds. mark),
stands “Yerrahoo,” the ancient Connemara war-cry,
still to be heard in the Warrnambool district of
Victoria.
THE MIRAGE , WEST OF THE
DARLING RIVER, NS. W.
NOT WANTED ANY MORE.
ISAACS (to rescuer): “Vat yer going to charge?”
RESCUER: “Half a quid.”
ISAACS : “Make it seven art six, an ’ I'll t' row in me bathing suit.”
“Eddyson” writes: —
I see that a rush has been occasioned in
Winnipeg (U.S.A.) by the discovery of par-
ticles of gold in the crops of chickens brought
from a certain locality. This reminds me of
Tweedle and his emu hen Roseann. Ned Tweedle
was an industrious prospector in the country about
Dunolly and Mount Moliagul (Vic.), a silent, ob-
servant man who knew something of the value of the
common or pond duck as a fossicker, and on that
knowledge built a theory that the emu might be
more efficacious than diamond drills in testing new
country. Tweedle secured an emu, domesticated the
bird and liberated it on one of Braddon’s paddocks.
After a fair interval he called his prospector in,
applied medical methods and discovered the useless-
ness of further investigations in that particular
paddock. Roseann was turned loose in another paddock
and presently brought home indications that led to the
discovery of a small and fairly profitable reef. Later,
Tweedle hit upon a bit of pay dirt at Tinpot, through
the agency of his bird. Some time after this, Rose-
anti came back from a paddock of Reynolds’s with
a half-ounce prospect in her crop. Alas! Grow and
Cameron held a lease of that particular land, and
it cost Tweedle £l5O to buy them off. Then he
went from end to end of the place, and didn’t get
encouragement enough to justify the setting up of
a puddling tub. Roseann had been salted!
* * * *
Dr. Strangman, one of the fine fellows
who are blazing the track for the white man into
the Northern Territory, per-
formed a record long-distance
operation the other day.
Strangman was called up to
.the transcontinental telegraph
line for a consultation. . Seven
hundred miles down the track,
at Barrow’s Creek—the place
where a warlike Black Bro-
ther caused the telegraph
depot to be long ago turned
into a miniature fort—a man
had been thrown from a horse,
and his shoulder had been so
badly dislocated that all the
local first-aiders had given it
up as a bad job. The patient
was got into the telegraph
office, at one end of the line,
and the doctor was ready at
the other. Barrow’s Creek
ticked off a minute descrip-
tion of the injury; then step
by step the treatment was
prescribed. Before the queer
s&ance across 700 miles of
line was over, the dislocated
limb was back in its place,
and two battlers were ready
to take on their ordinary
pioneering jobs again.
“Wallaby”: Hot and thirsty with hump-
ing Matilda, Jim and I arrived at the half-way
pub and loosened up for drinks. Then the dead-
beats woke up and started to bite. We stood two —
one to save his life; and the other for the love of
the Omnipotent—but, when a third hove the re-
mark: “Whatcher, lads! ’Struth, it’s anelova time
since I saw yer,” we handed down nothing but cold
words. “What!” he exclaimed; “don’t know Bill
Kelly! Why, blime, I shore wrinklies for Bobby
Rand in the ’6o’s, drove horses for Sam
McCaughey, ran scrubbers for Jack McDonald, shot
kangaroos all over Queensland, humped me drum
from the Gulf to Port Philip, fought Gouger
Welsh on the Tambo, plugged Kruger Cox on the
Gwydir, biffed Ginger Mick on the Namoi, and
stoushed Masher Mack on the Castlereagh! Don’t
know me! Why, Gorstrikemestiff, I’ll ” But
sooner than allow him to do that, we paid.
Once again the Austral Wheel race wi tnes4es
“touches,” spills, and punctures. How can these be
prevented? Is it not possible to devise some means
of averting “touches” and spills? Also tyres burst-
ing ? Or if these occurrences cannot be prevented is
there not some avenue opening itself which will over-
come their unpleasant consequences? The cycle it-
self was a dream once. Why should the overcoming
of such trifling defects remain so? Phillips Or-
monde & Co., patent attorneys, 266 Flinders St.,
Melbourne'.*
“Yalgun” :‘ Re sprinting snakes, the green
fellow is the quickest of Australian reptiles, with
the large brown crawler second —the one that is pale
brown above, and dirty yellow beneath, with belly
scales of grey. The green wins on points, including
hurdle events, though for a sprint of, say, 30yds.
from one bush to another, the brown wins over
level ground. “Pick’s” carpet-snake (B. 25/l/’l2),
can dodge quickly from a blow, but can’t run. No
sane carpet would dream of chasing a ’roo rat as he
describes, but waits on the roadside and grabs his
meal as it dashes past, using a spiral spring in the
act.
COOL.
MODERN MISS.: “Are you a real burglar?”
SIKES: “ Yairs .”
MODERN MISS : “Then do write your name
in my autograph, book.'”
“Chloe”: I’ve been watching the Solo-
mon Islanders do a little fishing at Aola. They
provide themselves with the large, brown, nut-like
fruit of a tree which they call N’dilo. Diving among
the reefs, they open this nut in the water. Almost
immediately many apparently-dead fish rise to the
surface, are gathered by the swimmers and brought
to shore. The fish recover from the state of coma
produced by th,e opening of the r.uc, and are sold
to the Europeans ashore, or to the ship’s people who
may be in port. The same effect is wrought on
the fish by using the crushed leaves of the tree.
DIFFERENT TO OTHERS.
Chamberlain’s Tablets do not act upon the bowels
like most laxatives and cathartics. They possess
such tonic properties that they soon strengthen even
the weakest stomach, so it can properly and volun-
tarily perform its functions. Chamberlain’s Tablets
r ever cause griping or pains of any sort.*
“Tinny”: “G.L.P.,” who enthuses about
the fast-burning capabilities of blaekboy, must have
dried the article in an oven before setting it alight.
The overcoat of blaekboy makes a great flare, I’ll
admit; but when you get to its singlet the flames
of Smithfield, which are still fanned by religious
cranks, would freeze on the job. If “G.L.P.” really
wants a good fire let him get salmon gum. If he
wants only a medium fire, kerosene is controlled
much more easily. If he wants a small fire perdition
might do.
* * * *
How like are the ways of the great and
the little! Big army contractors in Italy gave their
cattle salt, and then allowed them to fill themselves
with water, in order to increase their weight for
selling purposes. Small boys in Queensland sugar
districts, who catch and sell the cane beetle at
so much a pound, usually soak him in a bucket
overnight, and thus increase his weight by as much
as 25 per cent.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: The anti-barmaid crusade
simmering through the Commonwealth lately, has set
the pagan in me nagging to tell the story of Brother
Best, of Sebastopol, Ballarat. ’Way back in the
earlier ’Bo’s Sebastopol was visited with antipathy
to Hebe in a virulent form, due largely to the
ministrations of a young dispenser named Nettie, a
gorgeous creation in mock rose and artificial gold,
who drew the miners round Mahon’s bar in such
'.numbers, and detained them so long, that the local
wife arose in a state of blind exasperation, and,
whirling her brolly, demanded the instant repression
of barmaids. Brother Best assumed leader-
ship of the grand moral movement. Brother
Best was a tall, thin, pale, sandy-haired Cor-
nishman, a teetotaller and a Wowser in his
own right. He organised the women into a
body called The Banded Brothers for the Abolition
of Barmaids. The Banded Brothers were all sisters
bar Best and three other fresh-water eels, but were
the more dangerous on that account. Led by Best,
they demonstrated in the streets before all the local
pubs, more particularly before Mahon’s bar, and
most determinedly against Mahon’s barmaid. Best
arranged the attacks, delivered the addresses, col-
lected the contributions, and ran the revolution
practically on his own; but there was generally a
faithful following of about 80 matrons on his heels.
In his time Brother Best raised quite a quantity
of noise round Sebastopol. This movement scared
men into temperance, and poor Nettie was given a
bad time. Brother Best was her besetting devil;
he pursued her into her own bar and prayed for
her under her very nose. Rumor had it Nettie was
weakening. Came an evening when the hated Hebe
was reported missing. Mahon confirmed the report.
Nettie had fled for parts unknown. Twenty trium-
phant “brothers” ran to carry to saintly Mr. Best
the glad tidings of great joy. Brother Best was
gone. So were the funds of the Banded Brothers, a
pretty considerable sum. The three missing items
had gone off simultaneously. In fact, they had gone
off together. Never since has there been an effective
anti-barmaid crusade in Sebastopol.
* » * *
“Leo Lear”: Down among the marshes
and swamps of S.W. Victoria I have come across an
island that floats. It is a fair-sized hunk of conti-
nent, fringed with reeds and rushes, with swampy
vegetation growing on the tangled mass of mud and
debris (the collection of ages). This botanical ark
drifts aimlessly over the surface of a large swamp
at the command of every wind. Sometimes it backs
its stem into Smith’s wharf, and Smith’s Hereford
bull browses thereon, what time the wind changes
and lands the animal among Brown’s Ayrshire herd.
The Smiths and the Browns were once merely toler-
ant enemies, but now the curse that lies between
them would bleach the grandmother of a half-caste
Spanish-Ameriean. Lately Brown ran a railing
across midships of the island, and posted a notice:
“No bulls abaft this.” But the next gale drove the
old mud hulk broadside on at Brown’s quay, leaving
his fence as effective as a 2 per cent, duty on hats.
And when I left Brown was rapidly drying up the
lake with language which never fell below 152 deg.
Fahr. He reckoned that was the only solution of the
difficulty, and if rain doesn’t butt in during the next
week or so he may be right.
THE TIME FOR PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Elder Brown, with prayers for rain,
A really marked success had made;
He brought the waters down amain,
And flooded all the blistered plain,
When twenty cockies were afraid
The drought meant ruin once again.
But came a time when farmers sad
Appealed in vain to Elder Brown.
For weeks no drop of rain they’d had,
And Brown, possessed of some strange fad,
Would not appeal to Heaven to drown
The Fiend in grateful showers and glad.
They pleaded, bullied, threatened, swore
For intercession there and then;
Each stuck to Brown, a bore,
Until he rounded with a roar.
“I’ll pray,” he thundered at them, “when
My corns are jumpin’, not afore!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
"Worldliness in the Church.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A preacher of the gospel to-day should know this
world. It is no longer sufficient for him to know
the world to come. The future is important, but the
present makes demands, and it is not well for the
shepherd to be too far in advance of his sheep.—
Melbourne clergyman
’Tis good advice. Now, little men
Who preach so learnedly of Hell,
From pulpit, platform and from pen,
With promptness and precision tell
Some simple facts of Collingwood,
Or any earthy neighborhood;
Just any useful yarns will do
That common men can pin you to.
We know about the blessed whale,
We’ve heard a lot of Golden Stairs,
And now we’d like a rousing tale
Of bricks and sausages and chairs.
We cannot follotv when you prate
Of winging in a Future State.
We’re not concerned with hams and lutes.
Because our soles are sunk in boots.
To raise the people have a try,
But do not lift them off their feet;
We are not here to scrape the sky—
We’re here to love and think and eat.
When of ethereal spheres you preach,
We are surprised you do not teach
How fine the mountain heights would be
For little fishes in the sea.
Show, then, you do not teach the next,
Because this world you do not know;
In rlailv papers find your text,
For Flemington drop Jericho.
The nuts you crack with daily din
Have never any kernels in.
Jn masters of all actual worth.
In point of fact, you’re “off the earth.”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


“THE MINSTREL BOY TO THE WAR HAS GONE.”
“ PROSIT ! ’’—MOSTLY FROTH.
THE EMPEROR OF CHINA ABDICATES.
TME "Dpcis
a e:
„ fyARJM,
|i It is alleged by cable that
f the Russian Government re-
ticently paid £5OOO to one Lieu-
f! tenant Schroeder for a plan of
'!I a fortress at Posen tattooed
upon the bare shoulders of !
his best girl. Well, well! It’s
only the rich and powerful
who can afford such luxuries;
but what puzzles Hop is,
| what was that there girl pottering about that there frowning for-
! tress with her evening things on for?
The King and the Kaiser are to exchange visits.— Cable.
M </i(C(?^r{4
p»n°ter Ph i; VVOU,d seem ’ was' a car- ‘
punter m the village of Nazareth
among other things.
It’S a pity they didn’t find Joseph, too. Hop's back fence Is very much out
of repair, and you can’t get carpenters just now for love or money—unless you
happen to be fir. Dacey. If this should meet the eye of Joseph there’s a job
waiting for him. Address care Bulletin,
Nr *
t
THE SILLY SEASON.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
A NEW YEAR RESOLUTION.
I’ll only write with
CALDWELL’S INK.
It’s AUSTRALIAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE FUNERAL SERVICE.
PARSON : “Dust to dust; ashes to Hingland."
Miss C. ,de Thiery has an article on “Col-
onials at Westminster ” in the magazine of
the Royal Colonial Institute (London).
From Sydney went Robert Lowe and a
couple of the McArthurs. According to Miss
Thiery, “the most vivid impression Lowe
carried away from Australia was a hatred of
democracy.” As a matter of fact, Lowe
wrote democratic articles in the Atlas, and
elected for Sydney as a champion of pop-
ular rights. It was the English democracy
he detested, not the very different goods he
knew in Australia. Melbourne has sent to
the House of Commons Childers, J. F. Hogan
and Samuel Wilson. Childers, like Lowe,
became Gladstone’s Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer. He started as a tally clerk on
r Me’s Wharf, Yarra Bank. Gladstone offered
peerages to both these Chancellors. Child-
ers declined ; Lowe accepted, and finished up
as Viscount Sherbrooke. Wilson is long since
dead. Hogan still lives.
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, 1/6 and 2/6.*
Price Conigrave and his explorers have
got back to Wyndham (W.A.) ; and from
there word comes to The Bulletin that
the party traversed and charted some pre-
viously unexplored country, unearthed sev :
eral fine rivers, and raked together an inter-
esting collection' or skills,' plant's, etc., front
a hithepto blank popner of (he map.
Ileppfopd, the late James Rutherford’s
Bathurst estate of 3169 acres, is to be cut
up into small farms, and sold to those small
farmers who can’t get their produce to Syd-
ney because of the congestion and the dead-
lock and the Million Club and such-like.
Part of Hereford has some historical inter-
est ; a 1000-acre block of it was the grant
made to Captain William Cox for superin-
tending the building of the road over the
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) in 1813. Ruther-
ford had held it for about 40 years.
Dr. Max Herz, in his new book on Maori-
land, concerning a Knight of the Order of
Threeballusalem ;
Joseph Ware}, the present Treasurer, is an accom-
plished financier, and, gome time ago, a scheme sprung
from his brain to extinguish the public debt in 70
3 r ears, at a small annual charge, plus compound
interest. Before the end of the 20th century, Maori-
land is to be free from debt, and to be the lucky
owner of valuable money-making assets. If anyone
wants to expunge debt, a mediocre mind Would think
it necessary to stop any future borrowing ; for what
be the use to dig one hole to fill up another? Not
so Joseph. Before the time of atonement comes
nigh, it deems him better to have another good, square
meal, and accordingly launches a loan of five mil-
lions in London. Certainly, every penny for laud-
able purposes. But has any borrower ever any other
purposes ?
Arthur Robert Guinness, who was re-
elected Speaker of the Maoriland Parliament
last week, does things by tens. He was ad-
mitted to the M.L. Bar in 1867. Ten years
later he was elected a member of the Grey
County Council, and held the job for. just
on 10 years. About 10 years after obtaining
a seat in the House of Representatives he
was appointed Chairman of Committees,
which position he occupied for 10 years, and
he was then handed the Speakership. With
this last re-election he begins his tenth year
of office.
Some of the ’Murkans who dropped a lot
of dollars by the “Ice King” are now com-
plaining that he looks quite fresh and jolly
since President Taft
released him from
prison last year on
account of ill-health.
The public thought
that Morse was being
set free to die, where-
as he was granted
liberty to live, if he
could. A criminal’s
first duty to the Law
is to serve a long
sentence in a robust
manner. If he falls
very sick in prison
and is allowed to go
outside and get bet-
ter he defeats the end
of justice. The hon-
orable course for an
invalid “lag” to pur-
sue is to go home and
remain about the
same.
“Tom” Keele, who
was removed from
the Chairmanship of
the N.S.W. Water
and Sewerage Board
by the Wade Govern-
ment and appointed
a member of the
Harbor Trust, in or-
der that his criti-
cisms of the Public
Works Department
might cease from
troubling, has now
been handed the
chairmanship of the
N.S.W. Dock Board.
In his new capacity
Keele will once more
become a critic §£
several phases of the
doings of the Works
Department, and,
when the announce-
ment was made, the
bellow of enthusiasm from that vicinity
could be heard fully 18 inches away. Other-
wheres, the appointment has been looked
upon with the eye of. reasonable expecta-
tion.
From the Oldest Inhabitant
Thomas Rcibey, the third of the name in Aus-
tralia, who died at Entally, near Launceston (Tas.),
on February 10, aged 91 years, was the grandson of
Mrs. Mary Reibey, who was romantically historic in
N. S. Wales. Her eldest son (Thomas), born on the
Hawkesburv, had a grant of some 2000 acres from
Governor Macquarie; this was about the year 1820.
The grant forms a portion of the Entally estate, so
named after a pretty spot in India, known to Thomas
Reibey I. Thomas Reibey 11. married a sister of the
late George Allen, M.L.C., of Sydney, and had a
family of at least two sons and one daughter. The
daughter married a nephew of Governor Arthur, of
Van Diemen’s Land. The two boys went to Oxford,
graduated as M.’s.A., and became parsons. One,
James Haydock Reibey, remained in England as
rector of a parish in Devonshire. The other and
elder, Thomas 111., returned to Van Diemen’s Land,
and became Archdeacon of Launceston. He retired
from the Church in the early ’7o’s, after a Supreme
Court case, though he said he got out because he
could not obtain a rectorship he wanted. He entered
Parliament in 1874 as member for Westbury, and
continued in Parliament some 30 years. He was
Premier in 1876-7, and Speaker in 1887-1891.
Though a parson, he was a sport; but he never made
a bet. In 1882 his horse Stockwell ran second for
the Melbourne Cup, but so close was the race that
many thought the Tasmanian had won. The old
man, who had been a widower for many years, died
wealthy, but left no family. In Sydney his connec-
tions are the Allens and the Inneses; in Tasmania
the Atkinsons and the Arthurs.
A GLEAM OF SUNSHINE.
Victoria has had another railway collision.
F. W. Coneybeer, Minister of Education
in the S.A. Government, polled wliat seems
to be the record vote for any Australian
House of Assembly—l6,7o4 votes, in the
suburban district of Torrens, which takes in
Norwood, Unley, Goodwood, and Glenelg,
and sends five members to the House. Inci-
dentally, it may be mentioned that Osborn,
of Roebourne (Westralia), was returned in
190 S with 185 votes, so he should be about
at the other end of the list. A. J. Wilson,
with 145 votes, was badly licked.
“Red Tape, Junr.”: MacFarlane, Control-
ler-General of Prisons, is to occupy the seat
on the Public Service Board temporarily
vacated by Charles Saunders. He is the
second gaoler to hold a similar position, the
last locum tenens being Neitenstein, who at
the time of his appointment was also general
overseer of lags. As the Appeal Board now
consists of one ex-Public Service Examiner,
one ex-Stipendiary Magistrate, and the afore-
said gaol boss, the appellant will probably
stand as good a chance of being sent up for a
stretch as of winning his case. Fortunately,
the hangman was not added to the tribunal.
An appreciation:—
Professor John Anderson Gilruth, of Melbourne
University, who has been appointed Administrator
of the Northern Territory, at a salary of £1750 a
year, is Scotch, like almost everybody else. He was
born in Forfarshire, and dragged up, in an educa-
tional sense, at Arbroath and Dundee. He studied
law and afterwards veterinary science in Glasgow and
London ; and was medallist in botany and anatomy
at Glasgow University. In 1893 he was appointed
chief veterinarian of Maoriland, and was also patho-
logist to the Health Department, and principal vet.
in the defence forces. In fact, if he happens to know
a little about the tropics, and the immense distances,
and the weather, and the soil, and the aborigines,
and the white ants, and the empty spaces, and the
marine insects which eat up piers and such-like, and
the strange Asiatics who sneak into the North, and
their strange diseases, and about the alligator that
Johnson sat upon, and artesian wells, and irrigation,
and the art and mystery of governing men and pro-
moting settlement, he should do very well. Anyhow,
if his horse falls ill up there, he should be the right
man in the right place.
THE CITY OF ETERNAL DUST-CLOUD.
S HE: “ Hadn’t we better return to terra-firma ,
George?"
GEORGE: "That ain't terra-firm — that's the
air above Melbourne!”
“Plugger Bill - ’ Martin, the Yankee hero
of a hundred cycling sprints, is still in Aus-
tralia. Nowadays he is a dry-goods drum-
mer on the Riverina circuit.
The lawyers are creeping back
into the S. Aus. Parliament, from
which for a time they were almost
banished. Piper, Anderson and
Paris Nesbit, Iv.C.’s, have grown
tired of standing and being beaten.
They kept out of the fray at this
general election. In and about
Adelaide, A. J. McLachlan (who
used to be Kingston’s partner) and
Noel Webb took a chance; also,
the “Liberals” resuscitated old W.
F. Stock, who sat in the Assembly
20 years ago, and was once Attor-
ney-General for a few months; and
at Port Pirie Barwell relied on a
local popularity. All these went
down. On the other hand, Judge
Homburg’s son Hermann retained
his seat, and takes his brother
Robert in with him. Fred Young
and Rudall, country practitioners,
kept their grip, and a suburban seat
was won by Herbert Parsons, part-
ner of Glynn, M.11.R. Old John
Downer stays on in the Leg. Coun-
cil, but B. A. Moulden goes out.
Altogether, Peake has plenty of
choice for an Attorney-General.
On the Labor side, Denny’s only
rival when he became A.-G. was
Campbell, then merely a law
clerk. A big accession on this side
is the youthful Jim Vaughan,
brother of Treasurer Crawford
Vaughan. He replaced Moulden in
the Council, and should have a
future when a Labor Government comes
back.
“Aviator’s” little piece :
I knew Graham Gilmour, whose death, as a result
of a vol-plane that failed, has just been announced
by Reuter. As an aviator he had no equal in Eng-
land, and hardly any in the world. A leading French
flier told me that, in France, he was reckoned the
only serious opponent of Beaumont and Vedrines in
the recent circuit of Britain. His defect was rash-
ness, bordering on lunacy. As a matter of fact, he
was not quite right in his head, having had a bad
accident some years ago, which impaired his memory,
and changed him from a rather quiet and silent citi-
zen into a very talkative and excitable one.
There was no aerial “stunt” too mad for him to
attempt with the Bristol bi- and mono-planes, which
he used till six months ago, when he severed his con-
nection with the company. He was chosen to repre-
sent the U.K. in the Gordon-Bennett race of 1911,
but was only, notified of the fact four days before the
event. He had no machine. Instead of turning the
proposition down, he borrowed a machine, and was
proceeding busily to fit an enormous engine into it,
and chance whether or no the contraption survived,
when his operatives brought him the news that the
job couldn’t be done in time. On the day fixed for
the race there was a gale blowing, and the event was
postponed. Not to disappoint the crowd Gilmour
went up in a mono-plane!
He was tried for manslaughter, last summer, be-
fore Judge Coleridge—the outcome of' a motor
tragedy in which he played one of the star rSles. He
bore the ordeal cheerfully. Though the Judge summed
up dead against him, on a technical point, he was
acquitted—a fair thing, as deceased’s relatives were
the first to tell the newspapers. He had his peculiari-
ties,, but, take him for all in all, he was of the stuff
of which heroes are made.
About Skinner: —
Henry Skinner, of South Melbourne, who had sold
liquor and food to a much wider circle of Australians
than any other caterer on the continent, dropped
out the other night, aged 60. Born a Cockney, he
went to America and picked up some ideas of Private
Enterprise before proceeding to Victoria. In Mel-
bourne he got a job as a draper’s assistant, and,
whilst shop-walking at Buckley and Nunn’s, he paved
his way into a pub—the Golden Gate Hotel, at
South Me'lb. —where he lived and schemed for 30-odd
years, and died last week. Thirty years ago Mel-
bourne was the paradise of “sport” and gambling,
and Skinner organised his business as a refreshment
caterer on sporting grounds. He got contracts from
racing clubs, cricket clubs, bowling and football
clubs, and as his business appetite grew with what
“sportsmen” fed on, the caterer developed into a
patron or boss, on the strength of the patronage he
secured. His monopoly of the Melbourne catering
trade was grumbled at—people complained that. his
name indicated his methcds; but probably he did a
fair thing by the
public stummick at
the price. No man
can continue to flour-
ish for 30-odd years
by doing his par-
ticular thing badly.
I n everything but
the owning of race-
horses he was suc-
cessful. On the Turf
his luck was not as
good as his tactics,
and his biggest win
was perfumed with
scandal. Tim Swiv-
eller beat Skinner’s
horse Sainfoin for
the Caulfield Cup in
1893. The winner
was objected to for
having swerved across
Sainfoin or another
horse in the straight,
but the interference
hadn’t seemed to af-
fect the final result.
The V.A.T.C. stew-
ards dismissed the
appeal, and a num-
ber of cash bets on
Tim Swiveller were
duly paid; but Skin-
ner went on to the
V.R.C., and the boss
club reversed the
other decision, so the
Skinner party won
its big wagers any-
how. For a while
after that Skinner
had several horses in
training, but he eventually tired of the game. There
was no money in it for him. Last year he was
elected to the Vic. Leg. Council, and many a member
of the House of Fat could have been better spared.
From N’York: —
Alfred Tennyson Dickens had a more gorgeous
funeral here than he would have got in Melbourne, I
guess. The obsequies were conducted in Trinity Church,
the wealthiest and most historic of N’York’s religious
temples. The place was filled with what the papers,
next day, called a “distinguished congregation” ;
two of the pall-bearers were Whitelaw Reid (Ameri-
can ambassador in London) and Andrew Carnegie.
The Trinity Church authorities offered a burial site
in their grounds, but the daughters of the deceased
telegraphed from Melbourne, “London preferred.” So
A.T.’s remains rest only temporarily within a stone’s
throw of the hurly-burly of Broadway.
As a refreshing and blood-cleansing drink for the
hot weather, take “Montserrat” Lime Juice. Ask
your storekeeper for “Montserrat,” and don’t take
any other lime juice.*
THE BALLAD OF SIR BORROWIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Arrangements have been completed for the issue of
£1,000,000 worth of Westralian 3} per cent, stocks
at 99.— Usual cable in Australian daily payer,
To the door of Uncle, who in Loudon abidetj),
The gallant Sir Borrowit joyfuly rideth ;
And down he louteth,
And for a varlet shouteth,
While under his armor a parchment he hideth,
“Tell me, low caitiff”—-the gentle Knight
“How is’t with Uncle? Faileth he, or stayeth?
Waketh he, or sleepeth ?
What the health he keepeth?
Say ’tis I —-Sir Borrowit; He-Who-Never-Payeth!”
“Fair sir, I entreat you”—the base churl beginneth—
“ln your Uncle’s ear a dread tale one dinneth,
And the hot tear welleth,
While his woe he telleth,
Trusting thereby that some small loan he winneth !
‘‘You, fair sir, gladly your Uncle rcceiveth,
And right courteously your true tale believeth ;
But, ere in you go, sir,
’Tis as well you know, sir,
You’re the four-and-fortieth your Uncle relieveth!”
At the dolorous words Sir Borrowit contemplateth,
He liketh not the news—on his ear it grateth !
Alas! he hardly knoweth
Exactly what he oweth,
But ’tis a goodly sum, the thought whereof he hatetii!
Natheless, a purpose stark him onward pricketh—
lie must go in, lest him Sir Boomit licketh!
Sir Boomit —his twin Other,
His impecunious Brother. . .
Wherefore Sir Borrowit to his Uncle sticketh!
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


Australian Wool y&r...AustralianPcoplc
wm
35
rr-
-
SC
piH
II
H
:c
J
if
■
ill
■
L
E-
mm
HI
H sH
mgm
■lii
HI
si
«<
m
111
ft
ill
I
BROS
PSS
■
as
15
-V-T:
sss
: m
“While We Wait” 10 percent. Reduction Sale
“ While We Wait ” for the new building we are holding a io per cent. Reduction
Sale. While you get your purchases you will see the builders building, so that,
like all Gowings’ goods, the genuineness is apparent. Everything reduced at least
io per cent. Carriage Paid Everywhere in Australia.
GOWING BROS.,
486, 488, 490 & 496 George St.; 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
Xml a .sS““pf»- 32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISROL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Bonus to
Net Dividend Shareholders Re-
Dec., Profit. (12A ]>.c.). (in shares). serves.
1906 .. - £56,086
1907 .. £40.885 £16,638 £16,900 63,433
1908 .. 36,946 18,750 15,000 66,629
1909 .. 44,074 20,625 16,500 73,578
1910 .. 50,374 22,687 18,150 83,115
1911 .. 55,256 24,956 19,970 93,445
Angus Mackay passed over from Bendigo to Sydney
many years ago, and, seeing an undoubted opening,
hatched the Daily Telegraph, hoping to rear in
N. S. Wales as powerful and profitable a Protectionist
organ as the Age was in Victoria. But the job was
too big for Mackay, able man though he was, and for
many years the infant merely sucked up money—and
there was none too much of it in the bottle. It was
not till the ’9o’s that the co.—a very different co.
by this time, and with very different ideals —felt that
its footing was secure. From that year its history
has been one of great commercial prosperity. With
the ’9o’s it began paying 124 p.e. on its then capital
of £50,000. A few dull years followed; then G.
Reid and the “young” Freetrade crowd arrived —the
crowd which saw that a little Radicalism would have
to be mixed with Cobdenism —and the D.T. thereby
got a big lift. In 1897 it was plain that the co.
could pay p.c. on more than £50,000, so the
genial plan of watering the stock by transferring sur-
plus profit to capital was introduced —the least re-
prehensible system of watering, but watering never-
theless. The first table shows what has been done in
that way in the past five years ; the next one shows
the inflation over a longer period:—
1897 .. ..£50,000 1905 .. ..£llO,OOO
1898 . . . . 57,500 1906 . . . . 120,000
1899 .. .. 60,100 1907 .. .. 133,100
1900 .. .. 66,100 1908 .. .. 150,000
1901 . . . . 66,100 1909 . . . . 165,000
1902 .. .. 75,000 1910 .. .. 181,500
1903 . . . . 85,000 1911 . . . . 199,650
1904 .. .. 100,000 1912 .. .. 219,620
Thus, in 15 years, £169,620 has been added to the
capital out of profits ; so the man who has held on
to the shares since 1897 (provided he came in at
par), gets nowadays, not 12J jj.c., but really sQp.c.
in cash, and next year, all going well, he wi 11 get
55 p.c. And while he gets 50 p.c. in cash, he also
gets two shares for every five of his original hold-
ing; and those two shares are worth (say) £7O =
£l4O = £2B per original share = 280 p.c., or, with
the cash dividend, 330 p.c. dividend on the original
investment. It is almost enough to make a man
cheerful.
The cash position is exceedingly strong:—
1907. 1910. 1911.
Liquid assets .. £132.751 £204,892 £236,353
Liabilities .. 6,023 13,318 7,034
Surplus .. £126,728 £191,574 £229,319
Thus, in the past year, the co. has put by £37,745
after paying the following dividends: February,
£5672; April, July and October, £6239 each;
total, £24,389. Add £24,389 and £37,745 =
£62,134. That is a good deal more than the net
profit shown in the table, the difference being due
to (1) the writing off of £2023 to cover deprecia-
tion of plant; (2) the transfer of £B2O to a sink-
ing fund to wipe out the capital cost of buildings,
presumably on leasehold land ; (3) the reduction of
stocks. The sinking fund referred to now amounts
to £22,628, invested in fixed deposits; the total book
value of the premises, apart from the Metropolitan
Hotel ( £28,020), which also belongs to the co., is
£31,612. The liquid assets set out above are mainly
cash; the exceptions are —Sundry debtors, £28,708 ;
funded stock, £35,587 ; banking and other joint
stock shares, £19,737. The surplus of liquid assets,
after providing for the dividend and bonus, exceeds
the share capital. The shares are £lO paid; the
market quotation is about £7O. (It has lately been
as high as £73.) That £7O was represented as
follows on December 31: Liquid assets, £ll 10s.;
non-liquid assets (including freehold), £6; good-
will, £52 10s. Approximately, therefore, goodwill
is valued at £1,050,000. On the basis of last year’s
profits this means 19 years’ purchase. It is a big
price to pay for the goodwill of any paper. Profits
certainly have been moving up briskly, and if they
go on moving up the 19 years will, of course, be re-
duced ; but it has to be remembered that trade has
been exceptionally good during the past few years,
and the daily paper has been reaping a phenomenal
harvest from, among other things, the property-sale
boom and the plaintive quest of Mrs. Suburbs for a
kind lady who will come in and do the washing-up.
So, though Sydney may grow, it is doubtful whether
newspaper revenue, in the bulk, will consistently
keep pace with it. Moreover, there is more than the
possibility of keen Labor-paper competition to be
taken into account, though, as to that, the investor
will be able to draw consolation from the fact that,
even if the profits for last year were £lO,OOO less
than they actually were, the co. would still have
been able to pay its dividend and bonus and make
provision for wear and tear.
* * * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co. :
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ •£ £
1901.. 55,119 13| p.c. = 27,500 13,937 13,682 295,167
1902.. 55,526 15 ~ „ 30,000 25,526 320,693
1903.. 73,443 15 ~ ~ 30,000 4,354 39,089 359,782
1904.. 71,829 15 ~ ~ 30,000 41,829 401,611
1905.. 69,375 15 ~ ~ 30,000 39,375 440,986
Profit on purchase of N.Z. Accident
Insurance Co. .. .. .. 17,696 458,682
Loss.
f 167,435 10 p.c. = 25,000 266,247
I Premiums on new share issue .. 25,485 291,732
1906' Transferred from unearned pre-
| mi urns reserve 30,000 321,732
Profit on sale of securities .. 15,054 336,786
Profi t.
1907.. 91,711 10 p.e. = 30,000 61,711 398,497
1908.. 78,619 10 ~ ~ 30,000 3,231 45,388 443,885
1909.. 41,134 10 ~ ~ 30,000 11,134 455,019
1910.. 71,745 12i „ „ 37,500 5,157 29,088 484,107
1911.. 112,417 12i „ „ 37,500 17,654 57,263 541,370
Evidently the directors thought it might be bad for
the shareholders’ eyes if they had 112,417 glittering
sovereigns suddenly thrust in front of them; so
£15,000 was first bitten off and dropped silently
into an investment fluctuation account, and all of it
except £2346 has been used to write down assets —
including, no doubt, British Consols. The reserves
are made up of this £2346 ; formal reserve fund,
£250,000; re-insurance fund, £270,000; and un-
appropriated balance, £19,024. The only doubtful
item in this lot is the re-insurance fund, which (in
theory, at any rate) consists of premiums put by to
cover risks that were still current at the end of the
year. Under ordinary circumstances this fund of
£270,000 should be very ample for the purpose. No
hard and fast rule can be laid down; but cautious
men regard 40 p.c. of the annual premiums of an
established office as usually sufficient to cover unex-
pired risks, and this co.’s reserve is over 42 p.c.
Looking at it in another way, the average annual
losses for the past three years have been £397,000 ;
so the reserve is sufficient to meet over nine months’
average losses at this rate. And it is pretty certain
that the average unexpired term of the co.’s policies
is considerably less than nine months. The amount
written off profits in the past year includes £5OOO
voted to the Officers’ Provident Fund.
The year’s trading has been extraordinarily profit-
able, on account of an unusually low loss rate. This
shows that and some other features: —-
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64'2 p.c. 29’6p c
1900.. 342,036 195,804 95,651 57’2 ~ 27’9 ~ ’
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64'2 „ 26‘2 ~
1906.. 565,149 {flss’csl} 129 > 361 1119 » 22 ' 9 >*
1907.. 616,417 406*578 144,765 65’9 ~ 23’5 ~
1908.. 620,425 409,358 159,323 65'9 „ 257 ~
1909.. 608,283 433,964 161,598 71 ’3 ~ 266 ~
1910.. 605,509 391,321 172,593 64’5 ~ 28'5 ~
1911.. 638,000 361,520 192,447 577 ~ 307 ~
*General. fSan Francisco disaster.
The expense rate is higher, but against that may
fairly be set the fact that the new business shows an
unusual increase, and new business costs more than
renewal business in a fire as well as a life office.
The co.’s paid capital is £300,000, in 150,000
shares of £lO paid to £2. The investments repre-
senting this money and the reserves are as follows:
Mortgages and shares, £110,389 ; freehold office pre-
mises and properties, £289,717; public securities
(a list of which is furnished), £449,341; fixed de-
posits, £25,566. The interest earnings on the
average investment was £4 ss. sd. p.c. The revenue
from this source was £35,378, which was almost
sufficient to pay the dividend; all but £2122 of the
underwriting profit was available to further
strengthen reserves. And the reserves need it, be-
cause, compared with the size of the business, the
share capital is . small. This shows the relation of
funds and risks:—
Funds in
Proport 1 n to
Premiums. Funds. Premiums.
1895 .. £267,917 £449,551 168 per cent.
1900 .. 342,036 481,485 141
1905 .. 425,991 640,916 150 ~
1909 .. 608,283 755,019 124
1910 .. 605.5H9 784,107 129
1911 8.. 638,007 841,370 131
The year’s premiums are supposed to cover the year’s
risks plus (say) 33J p.c. for expenses (as a matter
of fact, they usually show a big surplus for profit) ;
hence the co. has in hand at the beginning of the
current year a sum equal to nearly two years’ risks.
(£638,007 X 2 = £1,276,014. Subtract one-third =
£850,677, which is approximately two years’ risks.)
The reserves now in hand could meet a disaster twice
as great as this co. suffered in the greatest insurance
catastrophe of modern times—the ’Frisco earthquake
and fire of 1906—and still have capital and the cur-
rent year’s premiums intact. So, though the 131 p.c.
shown above is still below the average of British and
Australasian cos., the position is a very strong one.
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney), which began business
under a contract with the Balmain suburban coun-
cil, and started with a deficit of £9876, represent-
ing Parliamentary rights and other preliminary
exes.:—
Written
Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
May, 1908 .. £9,876
Dec., 1908 .. £304 10,180
June, 1909 .. 183 10,363
Dee., 1909 .. 298 10,661
June, 1910 .. 219 10,880
Further goodwill items added, £1346 .. 12,226
Profit.
Dec., 1910 .. 1104 . £530 11,652
June, 1911 .. 1406 5 p.e. = £1075 531 11,852
Dec., 1911 .. 2321 5 „ „ 1075 680 11,286
The people most interested in this co. used to own
the thick end of one of the electric-light businesses
which the City Council bought out. Shut off from
Sydney proper, they looked to the suburbs, and got
a Bill through Parliament primarily to supply Bal-
main. Later on a 57 years’ agreement was made
with the Newtown Council; then a bargain was made
witli Petersham ; and during the past half-year
Leichhardt was roped in. The co. now, therefore,
covers a big area with which some day the Greater
City authority will have to deal; and when that hap-
pens, no doubt this co. will have to be bought out,
just like the old cos. were in Sydney. So far the
co. has merely been getting into its stride, and past
results are no guide to the future. Many of the
charges will not increase, though the business grow
to twice its present size. For instance, in the latter
half of 1910, gross revenue was £3388, and power-
house wages absorbed 23.6 p.c. ; whereas in the past
half-year the gross revenue was £7OOl, and the
power-house pay-sheet mopped up only 13.4 p.c.
How far this saving will go cannot, of course, be yet
determined. It is, however, pretty certain that there
won’t be anything very gaudy in the business, be-
cause in some cases the co. gives the municipal coun-
cils an undertaking not to put them on less favorable
terms than they would have got if they had con-
tracted to take their supply from the City Council’s
mains ; and as the City Council isn’t out after profits,
only shockingly bad management can prevent it get-
ting down to rock-bottom rates for light and power.
The share capital is £50,000 (of which £7OOO is
in ordinary shares, issued to the promoters), and
£42,187 had been borrowed on debentures up to
December 31, in order to carry out the recent ex-
tensions. Apart from that debt, the co. owes no
more than is covered by stores and liquid assets.
The Wellington Gas Co. (M.L.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904 .. 10 p.c. = £12,349 £34,871
1905 .. £29,242 10 ~ „ 12,457 £16,785 51,656
1906 .. 18,788 10 ~ „ 12,457 6,331 57,987
1907 .. 26,268 10 „ „ 12,457 13,811 71,798
Premiums on new shares .. 2,099 73,897
1908 .. 14,299 10 p.e. = 12,561 1,738 ' 75,635
Premiums on new shares .. 8,807 84,442
1909 ~ 17,151 10 p.c. = 14,911 2,240 86,682
Premiums on new shares .. 272 86,954
1910 .. 17,998 10 p.c. = 16,405 1,593 88,547
Premiums on new shares .. 7,745 96,292
1911 .. 23,322 10 p.c. = 18,154 5,168 101,460
Maoriland cos.’ accounts are presented either extra-
well or extra-badly; and this co.’s little lot comes
in with the extra-bads. During the past year the co.
got authority to issue. £150,000 pref. £1 shares, of
which 75,000 were offered forthwith. These shares
“carry a 5 p.c. dividend.” This may mean that they
carry 5 p.c. and no more, or that they are entitled
to that preferentially. The directors’ report says—
“An interim div., at the rate of 5 p.c., was paid on
the called-up capital in August, and a similar divi-
dend is now recommended.” Really the dividend is
at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. ; but whether that applies
to pref. and ordinary shares, or only to ordinary
shares, is left vague. Also, the amount that the div.
will call for isn’t mentioned; and, as capital has
been coming in during the year, it is impossible to
calculate the total from the data in the published
accounts. The £18,154 mentioned in the last line
of the table is, therefore, little better than a guess.
The shareholder will have to do some figuring before
he can even ascertain what the capital was as at De-
cember 31. The whole thing is sloppy and indefinite,
and no credit to anybody. There is a good deal of
untidiness about the capital itself. Thus, there are
7675 ordinary £lO shares fully paid, and 10,000
ordinary £lO shares paid to £B, and 5903 ordinary
£lo shares paid to £6, and 32,732 pref. shares
fully paid to £l, and 36,119 pref. £1 shares paid
to ss. Fortunately the directors are cleaning things
up a bit in this respect, and, since they want money,
they have made calls which will make the £1 prefs.
fully paid this year, and the £lO ordinaries fully
paid by March, 1913.
Though it is not mentioned anywhere in the ac-
counts, the directors say that “ £6570 has been ex-
pended out of revenue on extensions and repairs.”
Presumably that is the total sum written off against
depreciation ; nothing else seems to have been laid by
for the purpose. In addition to the revenue spent
on extensions, much capital has gone the same way,
and much is still to go, mainly in new works a.t Mir-
amar. In 1904 the fixed investment (land, buildings
and plant, etc.) stood at £211,391; the item had
moved up to £323,806 12 months ago, and has now
reached £366,986. Sales, etc., have shifted this
way:—
1904. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Sales and other income £58,925 £83,709 £89,214 £92,045
Manufacture, repairs
and other charges 45,764 66,558 71,216 68,723
Profit .. £13,161 £17,151 £17,998 £23,322
The profit in 1904 was equal to £6 4s. 6d. p.c. of
the sum represented by the fixed investment on De-
cember 31 in that year ; for the past year the profit
was at the rate of £6 7s. p.c. Assuming that a fair
amount of revenue was written off against wear and
tear in each year, this looks as though the business
is a shade more profitable than it was seven years
ago, notwithstanding that so much money has gone
into new extensions which don’t usually give a flash
return straight away. The co. owes £50,000 on 5
p.c. debentures ; but this liability is to be cleared off
during the current year with money to be got in
from the new capital mentioned above.
* * * *
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £3142 12p.c.=£2520 £622 £19,040
June, 1905.. 2537 12 ~ ~ 2520 17 19,057
Dec., 1905.. 2710 12 „ „ 2520 200 19,047
June, 1903.. 2563 12 ~ „ 2520 112 18,978
Dec., 1906.. 3271 12 ~ ~ 2520 751 19,729
June, 1907.. 2534 12 ~ ~ 2520 14 19,743
Dec., 1907.. 2576 12 ~ ~ 2520 200 19,599
June, 1908.. 2609 12 ~ ~ 2520 210 19,478
Dec., 1908.. 2424 12 ~ „ 2520 19,382
June, 1909.. 2752 12 ~ ~ 2520 192 40 19,422
Dec., 1909.. 2523 12 „ ~ 2520 251 19,174
June, 1910.. 2636 12 ~ ~ 2520 50 66 19,240
Dec., 1910.. 2973 12 ~ ~ 2520 50 403 19,643
June, 1911.. 2530 12 ~ ~ 2520 232 19,421
Dec., 1911.. 2396 10 ~ ~ 2100 50 246 19,667
For years past this co. has been working on much
too narrow a margin of profit; in fact, pretty often
there was no margin at all, and the 12 p.c. div.
wasn’t earned. Between June, 1905, and June, 1911,
the surplus of liquid assets over liabilities was slowly
reduced from £8832 to £4787. That of itself
wasn’t necessarily bad, because the money and much
more besides might have gone into new plant and
mains ; but, unfortunately, in the six years gas rates
actually shrank from £5452 as at June, 1905, to
£5446 as at June, 1911; so it doesn’t look as
though much was spent on extensions, etc. And
things are not improving even now. Take the gas
revenue for the latter half of the past three vears:
1909, £5699; 1910, £5753; 1911, £5485. Lat-
terly, while the revenue hasn’t improved, costs have
been moving up ; so it became imperative at last to
haul down the div. —“owing to the increased price
of materials and the new Wages Board.” In the
latter half of 1905 the gas revenue was £5397 ; in
the past half-year, £5485 —an increase of 1.6 p.c.
But coal has cost the co. 25.2 p.c. more, wages 1.9
p.c. more, salaries 2.1 p.c. less, directors’ fees 62
p.c. more, and auditors’ fees (still very small, if the
work is done thoroughly), 50 p.c. more. The usual
suggestion that things are in a poor way owing to
the growing rapacity of the workmen, doesn’t, there-
fore, seem to hang together at all well in this case.
The co.’s financial position is still easy; it owes
£1197, and its more or less liquid assets run to
£10,544.
The Warwick Gas, Light, Power and
Coal Co. (Warwick, Q.) :
Writ-
Pro- Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
fits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1905.. 5 p.c. =£394 £4O £235
June, 1906.. £558 5 „ „ 394 100 £64 299
Dec., 1906.. 517 5 „ ~ 394 100 23 322
June, 1907.. 624 5 ~ ~ 394 150 . 80 402
Deo., 1907.. 572 5 ~ ~ 394 130 48 450
June, 1908.. 642 5 ~ ~ 394 171 77 527
Dec., 1908.. 584 5 „ ~ 394 140 50 577
June, 1909.. 662 5 ~ „ 394 164 104 681
Dec., 1909 . 693 5 ~ ~ 394 150 149 830
June, 1910.. 677 5 ~ ~ 394 200 83 913
Dec., 1910.. 609 5 ~ ~ 394 150 65 978
June, 1911.. 666 5 „ ~ 394 180 92 1070
Dec., 1911.. 686 5 „ ~ 394 185 107 1177
Five years ago the surplus of more or less liquid
assets was £951. It is now £1237, or only £286
more. This means that all the five years’ revenue,
except £286, has gone in (1) dividends, (2) re-
newals and repairs, and (3) extensions. Or, put in
another way, all the extensions of the past five years
have been paid for out of current revenue, and still
a trifle has been left over. The amount spent on ex-
tensions can’t be said for certain, but it appears to
have been substantial; anyhow, revenue from gas and
by-products has increased from £1238 in the latter
half of 1906 to £2039 in the hind half of 1911.
The position, therefore, seems solid enough.
Goulburn Gas Co.(Goulbnrn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1904.. £llBO 15p.c.= i 750 £430 £7,414
June, 1905.. 1111 15 ~ ~ 750 361 7,775
Dec., 1905.. 1205 15 ~ „ 750 455 8,230
June, 1906.. 997 15 „ „ 750 247 8,477
Dec., 1906.. 1079 15 ~ ~ 750 329 8,806
June, 1907.. 1273 15 „ „ 750 523 9,329
Dec., 1907.. 1097 15 ~ „ 750 347 9,676
June, 1908.. 1216 15 ~ ~ 750 466 10,142
Dec., 1908.. 972 15 „ „ 750 222 10,364
June, 1909.. 1117 15 ~ ~ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909.. 872 15 ~ ~ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910.. 1090 15 „ „ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 ~ ~ 750 10,855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 „ „ 750 331 11,186
Dec., 1911.. 851 15 ~ „ 750 101 11,287
Reserves may be faked; they may be either bloated,
as in the case of most mining cos., or squeezed till
the eyes bolt out of their heads, as in the ease of
many gas cos. But it isn’t easy to fake the surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities; so here goes for that
comparison:—-
Dec., 1901. Dec., 1911.
Liquid assets .. ..£4479 £10,621
Liabilities .. .. 279 337
Surplus .. ..£4200 £10,284
No capital has been got in meantime; so in 10 years
this co., besides dividing its steady 15 p.c., has (1)
paid for all additions, renewals and repairs, and (2)
added £6084 to its little hoard. As the capital is
only £lO,OOO, the co. has in liquid form all the
money it put up. Which is to say, the consumers,
besides providing the dividends, have supplied enough
to pay for all the works; yet they will, of course, go
on paying the shareholders 15 p.c. This shows once
more the beauties of Private Enterprise as applied to
public utilities.
* * * *
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., formed in
Sydney in July, 1910, to take over the business of
Winchcombe, Carson and Co., Ltd., pastoral property
and products salesmen, as from April 1 of that year
(the deficit to start with consisted of goodwill less
reserves transferred from the old co.) :
Towards De-
> fronts. Dividends. Resenes. licit.
April, 1910.. _ _ £3i7ou
Dec., 1910.. £13,549 6 p.c.=£5670 £7879 23:850
June, 1911.. 0,065 6,, ~ 5542 1123 22 727
Deo., 1911.. 12,062 0,, „ 6173 5889 16^338
lhat is a bit better. The prospectus said that the
net profits of the business during the previous five
years had been £20,774 p.a. ; and when they
amounted to only £20,214 in the co.’s first 15
months, things didn’t look at all satisfactory. The
average monthly profit for the term just ended is
however, £2OlO, as against £1505 in the term
ended December, 1910. But this seems to be a co.
whose profits are much greater in the second half of
the year than in the first half, especially if the
season is an early one and the wool comes along
promptly ; and if this irregularity has been the co.’s
common experience, the sooner it drops the issue of
half-yearly accounts the better. There wouldn’t be
much sense in a wool or jumbuck farmer making up
a profit and loss account twice a year; and, on the
surface, the practice doesn’t seem to be much more
sensible for a co. which depends largely upon the
selling of the overcoat that is stolen from the jum-
buck once a year. As a matter of fact, March 31 is
as good a time to balance as any, and why the co.,
when it started operations on April 1, didn’t stick to
that as a datum point, isn’t at all obvious.
The co. has a capital of £205,755, in £1 shares
fully paid. Of the issued shares, 105,755 went to
the vendors in payment for goodwill ( £41,983) and
assets. The public took 100,000, and paid 10s. on
them ; the other 10s. has been got in during the past
year. This last 10s. has enabled the co. to add to
its freehold stores, etc., chiefly in Brisbane ; the item
has moved up from £85,483 to £136,876 in the 12
months. The other big asset consists of advances
against wool and produce, stock mortgages, liens and
sundry book debts, £102,615. This may be profit-
able business, but it can’t be called gilt-edged,
though it is probably the least risky branch of pas-
toral finance. The two items —“properties” and
“advances, etc.” —together run to £239,491 ; and,
as the capital is only £205,755, the public has to
be looked to for the balance. Total liabilities as at
December 31 were £64,459. It is much too early
yet to say what sort of future the co. is going to
have. In the past 12 months the profits have been
£18,727, and, though that is considerably below the
average declared to have been made in the previous
five years (though, of course, the past year’s, result
should have been greater, as there is now £lOO,OOO
of new capital in the business), still the figures show
9 p.c. on the capital. It certainly ought to be more,
for two reasons in particular: (1) There is inevitably
some risk in the pastoral-finance business; but dur-
ing the past few years the tide has been running in
and bringing profits with it —the losses (if any)
will show up later. (2) The seasons having been
extra-good, there have been extra-large offerings of
wool and other pastoral products at excellent prices,
with a proportionate bloating of the commission
earnings. As a partial set-off against this, may no
doubt be put the fact that a good deal of the new
capital has gone into assets which have so far earned
either nothing at all or but very little.
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1903.. £1393 3 p.c. = £l5OO £39,665
June, 1904.. 691 2J ~ ~ 1250 £6O 39,046
Dec., 19u4.. -2412 2J ~ ~ 1250 1 40,207
June, 1905.. 436 2J ~ ~ 1250 39,393
Dec., 1905.. 3615 2J ~ ~ 1250 41,758
June, 1906.. 1143 2J,, ~ 1250 41,651
Dec., 1906.. 6515 5 „ ~ 2500 45,666
June, 1907.. 2189 5 ~ ~ 2500 45,355
Dec., 1907.. 6863 5 ~ ~ 2500 49,718
June, 1908.. 2812 5 ~ ~ 2500 50,030
Dec., 1908.. 4700 5 ~ ~ 2500 52,230
June, 1909.. 1321 5 ~ ~ 2500 51,051
Dec., 1909.. 5431 5 ~ „ 2500 53,982
June, 1910.. 1797 5 ~ ~ 2500 53,279
Dec., 1910.. 6808 5 ~ „ 2500 57,587
June, 1911.. 2049 5 ~ „ 2500 57,136
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital .. 32,136
Dec., 1911., 7676 sp.c.= 3125 36,687
The co. has hitherto been in 25,000 shares of £5
each, paid to £4, and the other £1 is now paid up
out of undivided profits. The old gentlemen who
run the concern no doubt debated whether the capital
or the dividend should be increased, and, like wise
old birds, they chose the former for their attention.
They saw that this would relieve them of a contin-
gent liability, and that the dreadful Socialist
wouldn’t be so liable to throw bricks at a railway
co. whose div. was said to be 5 p.c., as at one that
showed (say) 7 p.c. Though The Bulletin would
very willingly help this co. off the map altogether,
it admits that the directors have more justification
for capitalising profits than a good many other con-
cerns have had ; for when times have been bad the
co. has never hesitated to pull down the dividend, and
keep it down until the corner had been definitely
turned. Consequently, the financial position has im-
proved very solidly during the past 10 years, as this
comparison shows: —
1901. 1911.
Liquid assets .. £8,790 £22,688
Liabilities . . . . 30,921 20,547
Excess liabilities .. £22,131
Surplus assets . . £2,141
The co. is thus £24,272 better off than it was 10
years ago, provided the permanent way, rolling
stock, etc., are worth as much now as they were in
. 1901. On the latter point nothing very definite can
be said, except that about £1750 a year has been
consistently charged against revenue on account of
renewals, apart altogether from maintenance, and if
any additions have been made to plant, etc., they
have been charged up to working exes, or paid for as
renewals. The co. serves a slice of Western Riverina,
where rainfall is scarce and droughts are pretty fre-
quent ; hence the unevenness of the profits—and in
that respect things are never likely to improve very
much. The line connects with the Victorian railway
system at Moama, and the Ma State would, of
course, do nothing to lead traffic that way. Lately,
however, there is a trifle more inclination to help
trade to its nearest port; so the time may come when
the line will be taken past Deniliquin by the Gov-
ernment. And then this co. will have to disappear.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., the
big silver, lead and zinc producer:—
Gross Divi- Gross Divi-
Profits. dends. Profits, dends.
May, ’O3 £77,963 £48,000 May, ’OB £30,389 £72,000
N0v.,’03 91,999 48,000 Nov.,’oB 34,430 Nil
May, ’O4 126,874 120,000 Loss.
N0v.,’04 158,274 96,000 May, ’O9 59,029 Nil
May, ’O5 170,149 144,000 Profit.
N0v.,’05 227,300 144,000 N0v.,’09 55,996 Nil
Mav, ’O6 253,473 192,000 May, TO 46,047 48,000
N0v.,’06 345,622 240,000 | Nov., TO 124,938 48,000
May, ’O7 331,125 240,000 I May, ’ll 155,967 48,000
N0v.,’07 153,599 288,000 I, Nov.,’ll 239,731 96,000
The profits are stated gross in the foregoing; varying
amounts are written off at the discretion of the direc-
tors. For the past six months the total struck off is
£34,884, leaving the net profit £204,847. This is
the best record for 15 years excepting 1906-7, when
silver was up to 2s. 9d., lead £2l and spelter
£29 7s. 6d. The average for the past six months
was 2s. for silver and £l4 9s. OJd. for lead,
and for spelter about £26. Formerly the co. was a
producer of lead and silver, with a little gold, from
its own ores. About eight years ago it began to also
produce zinc concentrates, and during the past couple
of years it has retorted a little metallic zinc (spel-
ter). Now it handles comparatively little ore of its
own, but treats a great quantity of other cos.’ pro-
ducts. In 1905-6-7 and thereabouts the average ex-


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 6 Spring Street,
Sydney*.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
AND EFFICIENCY OF
TRUST MANAGEMENT
can only be obtained by the appointment of this
Company as TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS,
ADMINISTRATORS, &c.
Fixed and Reasonable Charges.
Booklet on application.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION OAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Fui.ii Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane ; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney;
McCLEW & CO., Adelaide ; MALLOCH BROS., Perth
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
traction of its own ore per half-year was 300,000
tons; for the past half-year the output was 121,139
tons. Compare two half-years :
Nov., 1907. Nov., 1911
Ore mined, tons .. .. 312,158 121,139
head, average realised, net .. £lO 4s. 9d. £l3 9s. 6d.
Silver, ditto 2s. 9d. 2s. 2|d.
Zinc concent, produced, tons.. 41,203 48,192
Spelter (Nov. 30), ton .. .. £2l os. Od. £26 13s. 9d.
Gross profit .. •• • • £153,599 £239,731
The gross profit per ton of ore in the 1907 half-year
was 9s. lOd. If the same profit had been made out
of ore for the past half-year the total profit would
have been £59,560 instead of £239,731. But both
silver and lead have been much cheaper. Had the
prices of the past half-year ruled in 1907 it would
have made a difference of about £160,000. In other
words, had the past half-year’s prices ruled in the
latter half of 1907, the co. would at that time have
shown no profit whatever. Yet for the past half-year
on those prices it shows a profit of £239,731.
Where has it come from? Partly, no doubt, from
the increased revenue from zinc. The output is about
7000 tons of concentrates more and the price about
£5 13s. 9d. more. But zinc concentrates contain
only 45 p.c. zinc, and most of the stuff is sent to
foreign smelters which don’t give the co. the benefit
of all the rise in price. Probably the zinc output
was worth £75,000 more than it was in 1907 —
though on a re-calculation that looks an outside
figure. The balance must come from (1) increased
economies and improved processes of extraction ; (2)
the custom trade. The latter, which seems to have
been extraordinarily profitable, consists of the pur-
chase of lead concentrates from the Junction North,
British, Zinc Corporation and other cos. The Sul-
phide Corporation’s gross profit last year was
£207,959 from 228,483 tons of ore and a small
quantity of purchased stuff. This co. has a fine
equipment and its ore is better than the B. H.
Prop.’s; yet it made only 18s. 3d. per ton of ore.
The B. 11. Prop, certainly isn’t in a position to do
better mining and mill work than the Sulphide Cor-
poration. What the B. H. Prop, made over and above
18s. 3d. no doubt came from old zinc “tailings”—of
which the supply isn’t unlimited—-and the custom
trade. And the custom trade is an erratic one.
There are times when the foreigner wants the ore or
concentrates, and offers such a price that there is
nothing in it for an Australian competitor. There is
in consequence not a custom works in Australia
which hasn’t been in difficulties at some time or
other, and most of them have gone on the rocks.
This takes the halo off this co.’s figures for the half-
year. They are very fine figures indeed; but you
can’t rely upon their repetition. The co. is in a
gamble, and it happens to have thrown two sixes and
a five. Next time it may throw three sixes. But
there are other things besides fives and sixes in the
box.
One other point. The co. produced 48,192 tons of
45 p.c. zinc concentrates. But the receipts on ac-
count of “other products” apart from silver and lead
were only £15,587. Products on hand increased,
however, from £90,169 as at May 31 to £183,022
as at November 30. This suggests that most of the
zinc product is still on hand. As a matter of fact
there are tens of thousands of tons of zinc concen-
trates stacked at Broken Hill, Cockburn and Port
Pirie. The yarn is that it is waiting there pending
a reduction in freights. It isn’t compulsory to be- .
lieve that. The stuff is much more likely held back'
by the Zinc Combine in order to help keep up prices.
In other words, it looks as though the world can’t
consume the production at the present price. And
that means?
The Hetton Coal Co. has got back to the
dividend list; it pays at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a. for
the past half-year. Eight years ago the co. began to
feel uncomfortable. It was working under the ocean,
adjoining the now-abandoned Stockton, and the coal
was getting too close up to the sharks to please the
Mines Department. The co., therefore, knocked off
dividends, and began saving up to buy and
equip a new mine. The property secured
was the Bellbird, in the Cessnock district,
and, though the old mine isn’t done yet,
the new one is almost ready to take its. place. Last
half-year the revenue was £39,884, and the expen-
diture £33,643, leaving a profit of £6241 ; so the
directors thought it good enough to pay out a div.
of £3092. The Cessnock leases stand in the books
at £47,086 —mostly spent on development. Owing
to the fact that the co. began saying up pretty early,
the excess of liabilities over liquid assets is still only
£2807, notwithstanding the heavy outlay on the
new property. The capital is £123,665, in £5
shares fully paid.
* * * *
Five years’ record of the Grafton Copper
Mining Co. (N.S.W.)
Written
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1906 .. £3,615
1907 .. £14,252 £ll,OOO 6,867
1908 .. 4,552 Nil 11,419
1909 .. 6,993 4,000 £912 13,500
1910 .. 5,760 5,000 14,260
Loss.
1911 .. 206 Nil 14,054
The true result was a good deal less satisfactory than
the last line would suggest to anybody who didn’t
keep an eye glued to the fact that during the year
nothing was written off to cover the year’s deprecia-
tion. And so far as the average mine is concerned,
it is not only ordinary depreciation that has to be
provided for. A tramway, for instance, might last
50 years ; but if the mine it serves will only last five
years, and if the tramway is no good after the mine
is worked out, obviously it is necessary to write off,
not 2 p.c., but 20 p.c. per annum. This is apart
altogether from the depreciation of the mine. Strictly
speaking, if a mine represents £50,000 of a co.’s
capital, and if it will last only five years, £lO,OOO
of the so-called annual profits should be regarded as
return of capital, and not profit at all. Nothing
whatever has been at any time written off the book
value of this property; it is assumed to be worth as
much now as it was before a ton of copper was taken
out of it. Admittedly, the same thing applies to 19
mining cos. out of 20; but that only shows how
rotten the system of mining finance is.
There is another way of looking at the Grafton
matter:—
1907. 1910. 1911.
Liabilities.. .. £10,847 £10,999 £14,336
Liquid assets .. 13,010 13,239 8,853
Surplus .. £2,163 £2,240
Deficit .. £5,483
So, though no dividend was paid, a surplus of £2240
was changed into a deficit of £5483 in the past 12
months. Also, the ore in sight (excluding the poor
ore which can’t be treated at a profit) has shrunk
seriously. Twelve months ago the then manager es-
timated it at 30,086 tons. The much more exper-
ienced J. O. Armstrong, who took charge during the
year, says there are only 19,000 tons, though but
7750 tons have been smelted meantime. The pro-
spects of getting more ore by going deeper are no
doubt good. Costs are very high, and Armstrong
thinks he may get them down a bit this year. Min-
ing and development ran to £1 2s. 2d. per ton;
smelting to matte, £1 7s. sd. per ton. Total cost
per ton of metal on teams was £23 Bs. 2d. (Arm-
strong’s figures). The rest was swallowed up in
freights and converting and refining.
The future isn’t plain. Last year the mine may be
said to have just about pulled through without allow-
ing anything off for depreciation. Copper (electro-
lytic) averaged £59 14s, 4d. per ton last year. It
is now £63 ss. Armstrong estimates the copper in
sight at (say) 1900 tons. If he can either get £lO
per ton more for copper, or cut something off costs
to make up the £lO, the profit would be £19,000.
There isn’t very much in that for 80,000 shares.
Everything depends, then, on (1) the improvement
of the copper market; (2) the reduction of costs;
and (3) further ore developments. And further de-
velopments won, t be any use without the other things.
*a* * »
More bad luck hit the Harden (N.S.W.) in
the recent rains, The trickle in the creek that used
to wander harmlessly enough by the mullock heaps,
dams, etc., and obligingly remove unconsidered trifles
for the benefit of the cockies below stream, swelled
into a deluge. In overflowing it discovered an un-
suspected entrance into the western workings, and
started to play Sheol down below. The sand-filling
in the stopes made a hurried exit into the drives,
burying the only bone that remained in the cupboard
to sweeten the co.’s returns. The brand-new and ex-
pensively-installed electric pump was drowned, so
the deeper workings remain flooded, and all is slush
and gloom. After struggling for months to locate a
new run of stone, the co. thought it had at last
struck upon the prayed-for patch. No. 5 level
proved blank ; ditto most of No. 4. However, a winze
from the former, to the east of the shaft, began to
open up promising prospects, assays being reported
up to 40s. over a width of 42in. with numerous 3oz.
assays here and there. The untimely deluge post-
pones further inquiry; and it will call for some
pluck to tackle the mine again, in the face of the
dreary record of the last two years.
The N.S.W. Mines and Smelting Co. r of
recent birth, succeeded to the ownership of a proud
title, a comparatively undeveloped low-grade basic
deposit at Breadalbane (N.S.W.), a copper blast-
furnace erected near by, and several ambitious pro-
jects. Noteworthy among the ambitious projects is
the custom-smelting of the neighboring silicious gold
and copper ores, a job which will take money, though
there isn’t any pronounced bulge about the region
of the co.’s pocket. On the strength of the recent
discovery of some secondary low-grade copper sulphide
ore in a crosscut east at the 240 ft. level, a smelting
campaign is to be rushed ahead with all speed. A
report on the property by Gerard Williams testified
to the urgent need of a new shaft and a vigorous de-
velopment policy. Apparently that was not a palat-
able prescription; the co. couldn’t make an early
splash that way. Development may be contem-
plated: later on, possibly on the monetary results of
the campaign; but the splash won’t amount to much,
anyhow. As the report significantly remarks, “the
future of the mine lies below the water-level.’’ A
little prospecting might enable that future to be
gazed upon without much more expense, and thus
save a costly new shaft. On the other hand, it
might provide enough inducement to pass the hat
round again.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Oil Corporation,
whose works at Newnes (N.S.W.) are being closed
down, barks loudly about the iniquity of Australian
labor. Though it may be a handy sop to offer
the John Bull investor just now, this sort of thing
grows tiresome. Ridiculous over-capitalisation and
unbusiness-like encouragement of extravagance _ are
evident throughout the whole contraption, and this is
the explanation of the sour milk in the cocoanut.
The erection of extensive works in the wrong valley,
horrible errors in the driving of tunnels, etc., etc.,
were mere incidents in a business that began wrong,
and has been wrong all through.
* * * *
This year Boulder Perseverance’s ore re-
serves are just the same as last, about three or four
years ahead of the mill. The work done during 1911
shows that in the two bottom levels, at 2050 ft. and
2200 ft.. the grade of the exposed ore is a little below
the present milling aveiage, but there is still a lot of
ground to be prospected at these two points ; and in
view of the values met with in the corresponding
parts of the levels above, some good stretches of
higher grade ore are expected. Meantime the co. just
manages to show a small surplus each month on the
treatment of 6dwt. ore. Depreciation must come
out of that when the year’s accounts are made up
and the real position of affairs is set out.
* * * *
As Great Boulder (W.A.) despairs of get-
ting any payable ore in the slaty country which
shoved the lode into the Golden Horseshoe, and which
now covers the bottom of the mine, it has stopped
sinking. Reduced capital expenditure on develop-
ment and plant should enable present profits to be
maintained with the treatment of lower grade ore
for a year or two, but after that a falling off in re-
turns must take place. Meantime the inclusion of
blocks of ore which, owing to insufficiency of de-
velopment, have not hitherto been taken into ac-
count, will tend to mask the true position and help
to prevent shareholders taking fright.
In the Kalgurli (W.A.) an intrusion of un-
favorable country from the east has cut out the
ore body altogether at 1900 ft. All the levels above
that point look fairly promising, and of course it
will take a long time to work them out. Below
1900 ft. the country offers no encouragement for
prospecting, and it is doubtful if the co. will do any.
* * * *
It now transpires that the patch which
a tribute party recently unearthed in the Oroya Links
(W.A.), yielded £25,000, plus about £9OOO or
£lO,OOO royalty. The ore was found underneath
some old surface workings on the Oroya’s north
block. In all about 5000 tons were taken out. The
co. is now doing some work at the No. 1 level, down
to which point a considerable tonnage awaits ex-
traction. What is below 100 ft. is an unknown quan-
tity.
* * * *
Great Fingall (W.A.) says that practi-
cally all the development done last year was on the
main body in deep ground. As a result of this work
it is claimed that the rich shoot in the hanging-wall
of the lode, met with at about 100 ft. north of the
No. 4 winze at the No. 18 level, has been proved’ to
the present face, a distance of about 252 ft., and
averages 395. for 57in. No. 17 level is also billed
as having 482 ft. of 455. ore exposed for a width of
5 4 in.
I 1 enian, Meekatharra (W.A.), gives an-
other very attractive account of itself. To the end
of 1911 its gold production realised £217,924, and
its dividends were £117,665. In his half-yearly re-
port the manager says there are 77,000 tons of a
recoverable value of £269,500 in sight. He esti-
mates the profit at £154,000. This excludes all ore
not strictly proved, and doesn't take into account the
possible downward extension of the southern portion
of the reef, which has not yet been located under the
No. 4 level.
* * * *
Yuanrai (W.A.), in which the Oroya Ex-
ploration and Oroya-Black Range are jointly inter-
ested, hasn’t so far proved to be the mine in depth
it was near the surface. At present the deepest level
is at 430 ft., and the best that is said of the mine at
this depth is that “a good run of payable ore is ex-
pected.” The 300 ft. level is a bit spotted compared
with the workings above, and altogether there seems
to be much room for improvement. It was on the
appearance of the 170 ft. level that Hoover burst out
into optimism, and the show was bought.
* * * #
A gentle warning comes from the West
that the new co. formed to absorb the Tanami Con-
solidated and work the Sweet William and Thistle
leases at Payne’s Find, may find that it has bitten
off more than it can chew. Both shows are officially
reported to be shaping well near the surface; but the
country is hard and values look uncertain. On pre-
sent appearances the district will be at its best while
the shallow ground is being worked.
* * * *
After searching in vain for a mine in other
parts of the West, the Chaffinch Co. has gone back to
Bullfinch, and taken an option over Reid’s Find,
about three miles from Dooletteville. The co. has
agreed to spend £lOOO on the “Find”- —which looks
as though the co. is either hopeful or desperate.
Sirdar (W.A.) held its half-yearly meet-
ing in Kalgoorlie the other day, when the chairman
informed shareholders that, owing to a falling off
in values and an increase in the cost of fuel, opera-
tions had not been as “financially successful as could
be desired.” A gas-producer plant is being installed,
and with this the directors hope to make a profit out
of the ore at present broken, and allow a fair amount
to be spent on development. If shareholders ever
get anything out of the show, it won’t, therefore, be
just yet. And it is more likely to be never.
In a circular issued in London, Sons of
Gwalia (W.A.) breaks the news that the dividend
must come down. For this quarter Is. 3d. will be
paid (“less English income tax at the rate of Is. 2d.
in the £”), but for the rest of the year “it is not ex-
pected that the dividend will be less than Is. per
quarter.” The reserves are keeping up in bulk, but
values are going to pieces.
* * * *
In the dim past, Prince Cameron, manager
Cecil, and a patient crowd tried to gild the horizon
with gold from Great South Long Tunnel (Vic.). In
those days the big mine and the Extended were keep-
ing Walhalla as lively as a trout in the stream, and
the yields gave promise of the Great South figuring
presently on the dividend list. As the Extended and
the Tunnel faded, call-payers got tired of putting
their pence into the Great South, even though a new
plant went up to try the deep ground. So the claim
went back to the Long Tunnel Go., which has kept it
idle to this day. Now, not having the pluck to work
the mine, although a lot of shallow unexplored ground
is available, the Tunnel is handing its possession over
again—for a consideration. There are plenty who
will be willing to take a hand in opening up the
ground. So the hew co. ought to start well, as it
has a plant waiting to move, a shaft down to 1200 ft.,
and a big slab of territory to delve into.
Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), with £2500 in
hand, has to butt up against two or three dull
months. A run of 1500 ft. of gutter worked from No.
2 shaft to the east has given nearly 205.-in divs. As
the co. has 1700 ft. to the Central Cathcart boundary,
quidnuncs hold that, with the aid of the tributary
at the western end of the lease, another 20s. can be
counted ahead. But matters are not going quite so
nicely up the lead as had been expected, the north
drive off No. 1 rise having run into poor wash. If
there should be any reduction in the yield at this
edge of the mine, then, pending the opening up of
the main gutter off No. 3 shaft, the £2500 in hand
may have to be backed by a loan from a friendly
banker or a kindly pawnbroker. A big quartz reef,
run into in the crosscut from No. 3 shaft to the gut-
ter, is the latest trouble. Folk generally look to a
quartz reef to enrich a gutter; but the cruel fact in
this case is that the quartz is as barren of gold as a
State member’s pocket after an election.
Iron, Metals and Steel, the Melbourne co.
with a Sydney following, that wanted to transmute
iron ore into steel in one operation, and perform
other metallurgical wonders, hasn’t advanced much
from the days when Dr. John Storer was chief chem-
ist, and one Hesketh chief ironmaster. There have
been various enlargements of capital, and £lO,OOO
has been got out of premiums on shares ; yet £17,000
of debt has been piled up through a 6 p.c. debenture
issue. Lately the works at North Melbourne have
been sold for £632, leaving only a sprat of cash
available to sustain the patent rights. With all this
the Board is not so worn out as to throw up the
sponge. Most folk with such a debenture debt, with
£8916 loss on sale of plant and interest, and with
a doubting crowd in the background, would have
liquidated ages since. Not so Hector MacDonald and
his three colleagues. These are welling up with
trust, and write that “matters will before long be
brought to a successful conclusion in England.” At
the risk of recalling the past, The Bulletin still
merely says —“Show us your costs sheets.”
The shaft at the Lyell Blocks (Tas.) has
reached a vertical depth of 850 ft. from the surface,
or 325 ft. from the starting point at the tunnel level.
In this 325 ft. opening sets have been put in at three
levels, which may be used for exploratory purposes.
The present bottom is in schist, mixed with con-
glomerate, more favorable for working than some of
the ground previously passed through. Opinions vary
as to the Lyell Blocks’ chance of meeting with the
North Lyell ore body. It is supposed that the ore
has been formed by copper-bearing solutions percolat-
ing through the schistose rock bounded by con-
glomerate. The latter is also known to form an irre-
gular wall to the copper-schist formation. Judging
by the constant interchange of schist with conglom-
erate, the Blocks’ ground is undoubtedly close to the
dividing line between the two formations, even if
that dividing line doesn’t actually cross the boundary.
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, have
been in less demand at lower prices since No. 4 west,
level ran into poorer ground. There is only a small
vein now at the end of No. 4. A crushing of 106
tons has averaged £7 2s. per ton, which is about the
value of all the stone crushed from No. 4. The
Brilliant Block is extending its crosscut at 2000 ft.
to the boundary adjoining the Deeps. The latter’s
luck in the shallows was horribly bad, and the stone
from the stopes crushed last year did not pay ex-
penses ; but the capricious reef may improve again
as it rises up into the Brilliant Block, whose shares
are in consequence a gamble. The Brilliant P.C.,
after cutting a formation at the 1596 ft. level, is
driving to the west towards the New Brilliant Free-
hold, the idea being to more thoroughly prospect the
shoot of stone proved in a winze from an extension
of the Freehold’s No. 2 level.\ The returns from the
Brilliant Stockholm help to meet the expense of these
prospecting operations. Last vear vie Stockholm
crushed 10,517 tons for £35,554. The bottom level
(No. 11) has not yet shown the good form that No.
10 did.
J. H. Fawcett goes north to report on the
Mount Oxide for the option syndicate; and a
straighter or more experienced inan couldn’t be got
for the big job.
* * * *
Nothing illustrates the industrial rush of
the U. States and the industrial slough of G. Britain,
better than the movements in the coal trade. Down
to 1899 Britain produced more of the black com-
bustible than any other country in the world- —some
of it for home use; much of it for somebody else’s
use. The U. States came second. Then the U. States
pushed on top, and for 1910 the figures read this
wayl—- Tons.
United States .. . . 50i;596,378
Great Britain.. .. .. 296,007,699
Germany .. .. ... 215,033,120
There isn’t another with a fourth of that output.
Away down the list come these: —
Tons.
Japan.. .. .. .. 16,505,118
India 13,291,528
China.. 13,227,600
Canada . . . . . . 12,796,512
New South Wales . . . . 7,862,261
These figures, in short tons, are a European compila-
tion. Note, by the way, that it’s “Canada” —not
Montreal, and Ontario, and so on. But it is “N. S.
Wales,” and, down, hanging to the hairs on the tail
of the list, are the other Australian States. This
country seems to take a delight in representing itself
as a heap of small, insignificant scraps, and naturally
it gets represented that way by others.
* * * *
“AVill the undertaking pav ?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories or
warehouses, very often solves the problem. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and Co., can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
irg in Australia, or in course of erection, and will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the largest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors'
can be procured from the same firm.*
* * * *
+ GF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. —Ask the
man who actually uses Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+ GF-|- Malleable Fittings are true to size; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * » * .
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things, remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at
Breckenridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000
have been sold. This machine has revolutionised
ore-dressing, and as such is a phenomenal success.
The original form and forerunner of all modern
shaking tables with longitudinal riffles. .. .has been
greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478) re-
marks : “One feature of the Wilfley table to which
especial attention should be called is its ability to
separate sands from slimes while making the ordinary
concentration. This separation is more complete
and thorough than can be made by any classifier,
and should be taken advantage of in designing
mills.” In the last extensive additions made to the
treatment plant at the Golden Horseshoe Mine,
W.A., a large number of Wilfley Table Concentra-
tors were installed. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole
manufacturing rights.*
* * * *
Extract from The Journal of Commerce, Liver-
pool (29/11/’10). —“Colonial Mutual: This office is
one of the best, and has the advantage of capable and
progressive management.”*
* » * *
The most important mining cos. of Australasia are
now using PIONEER WOOD PIPE. Its success is
built on a foundation of quality, durability and
economy. Ask the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, Sydney, for catalogue.^
* * » *
The tool you will find most useful in your shop is
the Carr Three Way Tool Holder, combining easy
and rapid adjustment with strength, durability and
great range of efficiency. Three tools in one. Write
to BOIILER BROS, and CO., Ltd., 1 Angel Place,
Pitt Street, Sydney; 183 Queen Street, Melbourne.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress : National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ;
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* i 2
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *•
The Bounder Heavy-Duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves, cams,
gears or electric ignition, and run either on crude
or kerosene oils, are represented throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand by Babcock and Wilcox,
Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For marine work
the “Bolinder” engine has many advantages, viz.,
small oil consumption, ease of starting, no compli-
cated arrangement of valves or gears, being direct
reversible, fitted throughout with forced lubrication,
and absolutely no risk from fire and explosions, due
to using oils having a very high flash point. The
British Government and German Navy are large
users of the “Bolinder” Marine Engines.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


o
o
©
PM
0
fv
u
■pj_
Totting up columns of figures
is a tiring job; of course you get
used to it like everything else,
but still if you keep at it long
enough it will give you the “jim-
jams,” and when you feel like
that it’s time to chuck it and
take a rest. I find a cup of " Robur
Tea keeps me together better
than anything else. —It isn’t quite
so strong in its taste as some
teas, but it is more refreshing,
and I am satisfied that it is better
for you than lots of stuff sold at
the same or even more money.
In most offices the chaps take
turns to supply the Tea. At one
time each fellow in our office
used to bring whatever was
being used in his home, but we
couldn’t stand the stuff some of
them brought, so now it s got to
be “Robur” “Number One”
Grade every time or there's a
shindy kicked up, I can tell you.
The Clerk.
H EIDSIECK
CHAHPAQNE.
VINTAGE 1904.
World
BRAND
ertrytuyuyu
Renowned
STUHR
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Shrimp Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1800, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 19, 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
An American fashion journal, driven to
dip its pen in vinegar by the long reign of
the clothes-prop figure, remarks: “There is
some comfort in the thought that the Turks
remain constant to curves, and fashions for
stout women may yet emanate from Con-
stantinople.” Paris dressmakers . are still
clamoring for eelskin garments, and shriek a
new edict “four yards (double width?) of
material for a costume.” While Turkey is
haggling over dates and caravans in Tripoli,
Constantinople can’t put on its fez as dic-
tator of fashions for the fat. Easter modes
in this waterside allotment, therefore,
threaten to be built French style. Only
ladies who resemble elongated pancakes have
any hope of fitting the autumn fashions.
The cobweb garments of the Very Smart
belong to the story of Revelation. The dia-
phanous evening draperies of one recently
returned Sydney dame are said to merely
dim, and by no means obliterate, the radi-
ance of a diamond buckle on an illusive
garter. This knee decoration has incited the
plain sisterhood to infuriated comment, and
bitter words have been spoken over the rim
of Orange Pekoe.
“In Paris,” writes a friend now blinking
her tired eyelids in the City of Sit-up-all-
Night, “emaciation is literally the last gasp
in fashion. It is covered by cobwebs of
lingerie, just suggested by an edge of gos-
samer lace, that shows under a transparent
net or chiffon yoke, Last year, this rim o£
lace froth was only threaded with white
satifi ribbon. The etude blue or pink string
lids long been anathema here. This sedsoil
black ribbon is introduced —to inatch, I sUp-
posej the thin black silk undergarments
necessfity for the lean ladies who glide
across Paris sdloils with otherwise fiext-to-
nothing over their sharp corners.’*
On these surf-washed shores, black
bathing drapes have been the craze of the
Very Fair. When Mrs. George Vivefs —dis-
tractingly blonde —comes to town (in search
of almost extinct mammals such as domestic
helpers), she dives into a Bondi breaker clad
in black surfing robes, that make the resident
mermen sigh for mermaidens of the same
desigii.
Mrs. MeVey, of N’York city (cousin 14
times removed to one “Hop”), who is touring
this side of the Equator, records pleasant
impressions of N.S.W. life on Liverpool
Plains. As the guest of the squatter McKays,
up Gunnedah way, the sprightly American
inquired into the habits of an Australian
river. She saw its flood-time ievel, and was
too tactful to mention the Mississippi when
she met the N.S.W. dry-season trickle creep-
ing along like a long dusty worm at the edge
of a sheep walk.
Lieut.-Colonei Kenneth Mackay (Militia),
who snared a C.B. in the S’African squabble,
will now chop the head off his prefix and
chase metre as plain “Colonel.” He will do
this by order of the Commonwealth Gaz-
ette. He is to command the First Light
Horse brigade when it charges in a hollow
square on the coast of Bohemia with the
W'unen and children and regimental plate
chest in the centre. The versatile Mackay,
C. 8., is a confirmed writer of graceful verse,
and cultivates the soil up in Gundagai parts,
when he’s not turning his sheepfold into a
sword or other ammunition.
Kosciusko will have to breathe skis
through its snow hat, and get into the skat-
ing business with large and variegated
trimmings, if it hopes to compete with the
Great Freeze in Switzerland. Australians
abroad are developing symptoms of ski-
epidemic, and they alpenstock the Alps in
large consignments each December. Mrs.
F. 8.. Freehill, of this town, and some of the
Garvan family, are the latest folk to carry a
banner with a strange device in the teetli of
the avalanche.
Alderman John Lane Mullins is away on
leave, and was last heard from among the
cataracts of Sahara, or some such place. Mrs.
John and the daughters are also gadding, and.
they did Christmas in Brussels, where the
sprouts come from.
The novel-reading public being a queer
beast, it’s likely that the alleged slump in
the sale of John Strange Winter’s later
books had more in it than meets the eye.
The novelist, who gives her name to hair
lotions and face pomades—good as they may
be—for butter on her crust, tears down the
gossamer threads of romance. Even the
vogue of Marie Corelli might get a large hole
in its middle, if the writer of the exotic
“Life Everlasting” descended from the clouds
to the counter. It is said —though it seems
improbable—that John got £40,000 for her
103 books. Her will was proved at £547.
Though her domestic expenses probably swal-
lowed anything left over from the losses that
dogged the 1891 experiment, Winter’s
Weekly;, the author of “Booties’ Baby” had
a big public. Would Wells—who is a mile
or two higher in the literary firmament—
survive a Wells infallible cure for warts on
the nose?
The Brearley-Bray wedding, last week, in-
cluded among its guests most of the
leading *men of that profession which,
by its art, makes one glad to be
amputated, and turns the sprained eye
into a pleasure. The groom, ophthalmic
surgeon Edwin Brearley, is one of this city’s
best-looking young men, and the house of
Bray (as mentioned in this letter the other
day) garnered up a good deal of the earth
and the fulness thereof, up Concord way, in
the long ago. Dr. H. Ritchie was best man.
When Mrs. Gunn wrote “We of the
Never Never,” one of the few Australian
books that threaten to go down to posterity,
she threw a gentle feminine reproach at
Darwin as a city of some importance in the
Land of Wait-awhile. “Darwin, with its
one train, its telegraph offices, two or three
stores, banks and public buildings, its Resi-
dency, its China Town, its lovers’ walk, its
two or three empty, wide, grass-grown
streets, bordered with deep-verandahed, iron-
built bungalow houses, with their gardens
planted in painted tins—a development of
the white ant pest—and, lastly, its great
sea, where ships wander without tracks or
made ways. Hardly a typical town, but the
best in the Territory.” I am reminded of
all this by the fact that Professor Gilruth,
of Melbourne, is going up there to be the new
Borgia, or Columbus, or whatever the local
ruler may resemble. His appointment as
tetrarch has just been announced.
The Rainauds, the excellent French cooks
who were burnt out of La Corniche in the in-
fant days of the New Year, have been engaged
to prepare food for the patrons of the new
Manly hotel. This vast edifice is to be thrown
open to boarders and others next month, and
if the surf-bathing village has hitherto seen
anything to touch it for splendor and com-
fort, the directors are tergiversators and
spurners of the truth to a man.
Mr. McAlpine, a man of substance and
many sheep in the North Island (M.L.),is
mixing business and pleasure in this city,
and, between the two, the cup is nearly full.
The large and genial Maorilander leaves for
the Great Fog in the immediate future.
Prof. Gilruth, the hardy Scot who is going
to sit down oh the shores of Port Darwin
when he isn’t founding up the great spaces—
is A long, lehn slab of bone and muscle. A
mdh who knows him well calls Gilruth “ofae
of the best,” but has no raging desire to
have a scrap with the Northern Territory’s
new boss. “I believe he’s a match for Phy
half-dozen blacks, and he’d make two ordin-
ary whites feel sorry for themselves if they
got into holts with him.’* The clefin-shaven
face, strong jaw, and eye that’s said to look
straight through a lie, are fitted on to six feet
odd of humanity without an ounce of sUperflu-
ous flesh on its bones or any illness that it
can locate since teething time. Mrs. Gilruth
hails from the Land of Kilts, and there’s a
family of three to be transplanted north.
Mrs. Dick Seddon, of Maoriland, and a
son and daughter, I fancy, are liable to pass
through this hamlet any moment. They’re
returning from the Crowning uproar.
The only male Seddon, by the way, who is
likely to keep the name in the public eye is
no relation to the ex-reigning family—for
the great man who leaves a great son to
succeed him is only an occasional eccentricity
of heredity. Young Seddon, of Tauranga
(M.L.), who started in the Agricultural
Department over there, came to Victoria,
and recently snatched the gold medal and
other rewards by leaping ahead of other stu-
dents in the Vic, college where Professor
Gilruth used to sit in judgment.
Lydholme, the Darling Point mansion of
the late George Davis (formerly managing
partner of Hoffnung and Co.), has been
bought by Mr. Eric Jones, of Yarranabie-
road in that expensive suburb. The price
is alleged to have been £7OOO, but it’s not
likely to worry the buyer, who belongs to
the wealthy D.J. firm. Corabel, the next-
door neighbor to Lydholme, which was burnt
to the floor-level last December, is being re-
built—this time entirely of brick. Grace
Palotta shared the Eric Jones crust and car-
riage during her last stay in Sydney, the
Faithfulls and tlieir vehicle not being avail-
able. The Viennese beauty loved to preen
her graceful plumage in a well-lined nest.
News drops in that Kate Rooney, who is
Mrs. W. Kirkham when she isn’t doing the
contralto act before an amazed and wor-
shipful audience, took an unusual dose of
Christmas holiday in the Land of Much
Rain. With her husband, Mr. William Kirk-
ham, .our Kate sampled England’s outdoor
climate in midwinter, motor-tripping through
the New Forest and adjacent scenery.
The new Town Hall in Auckland (M.L.),
like the municipal ark in Wellington, takes
no risks in the matter of winter chills. Its
concert hall is loaded with hot water appar-
atus of the most up-to-date species. Syd-
ney’s Town Hall, in which all the winter
coughs collect during the concert season, is
a costly refrigerator, without even a hot
brick on whicli an Antarctic blast may warm
its feet.
Watson’s Bay, which used to slumber on
the rocky breast of South Head, has been
rubbing its eyes and stretching itself ever
since fancy chimney-pots and red-tiled
roofs sprouted on the leafy shores of ad-
jacent Vaucluse. Mayor Johnson has helped
to push the ancient hamlet into line with
modern suburbia, and the big marine show
on Saturday afternoon, with Mr. W. Weekes
in the fore as pusher-in-chief, was one of
Watson’s most wide-awake efforts. The
Hugh D. Mclntosh presentation medals
to the gallant shark-fighters, McKay and
Barlow, who lent their aid in the recent
Lane Cove fatality, were banded over by
mummer Bertie Wright. The Constable
brothers, who fished up the monster, or his
brother, were also medalled.
The immaculate Andrew Higginson,
Frank Greene (who sometimes shakes a
brisk pen along the inky way) and Leslie
Holland, of the J.C.W. comic opera co.,
helped to make the Bay’s water-sprint a
glaring success.
A women’s meeting at the Australia, one
day last week, needed about 20 tons of bricks
to sit on its chest, and a mile or two of rope
to tie up its numerous remarks. Out of the
clatter of tongues, Premier Jim McGowen
rose (not exactly like Aphrodite out of the
foam) and hurled complimentary language
at the object of this Tower-of-Babel rally—
the youthful contralto Leah Myers. Then
he siid off the premises through the nearest
doorway and was seen no more. Mrs. Trefle
took the chair, and placed one hand (pre-
sumably as a buffer) on her agitated brow,
while a female cyclone of tongues tore across
the room. Out of the whirlwind came one
solid suggestion—a concert for the girl on
March 26. The name of Mrs. (Rabbi) Cohen
as lion, treasurer of the Leah Myers fund,
was somehow cast up out of the seething
cauldron of languages and the raving jungle
of vocabulary.
Mrs. Walter Hall supplemented by £5O
her late husband’s promised donation to the
Gordon Lavers fund. The sightless or-
ganist will depart from these shores in a few
weeks, to put on another musical storey or
two, at the Norwood College for the Blind
in London’s fogs. A sum of £350, collected
by private canvass on the part of a deter-
mined male committee, will see the gifted
Lavers through three years of research.
When a millionaire isn’t giving away a
battleship or building a palace—both bold
advertisements of his assets- —he seems to de-
vote his gigantic brain to swabbing up stray
halfpence from the salary of working worms,
or otherwise chopping down inordinate dis-
play on the part of his vassals. The cheapest-
looking postcard just now floating round
this town is called “Hands across the Sea,”
and is alleged to have been perpetrated by
millionaire Charles Harriss. It’s the final
flicker of the Sheffield Choir in this city,
and intended to commemorate the “warm
welcome and generous hospitality given to us
throughout the Empii-e.” , Various Austra-
lian persons who received a copy of this
mean reminder of their “generous hospi-
tality” feel as if the sbh had set as suddenly
as a farthing dip oh iheit share of the
Empire.
The departure from this pleasant city, on
the part of comely damsels.with a song-bird
in their throats, is proceeding at its ushal
pace. Two or three vanish by every out-
going mail steamef. They’re ail dashing-
after Fame, with a 2 per cent, chance of
rounding up that tricky sprite. Early in
March, Miss Muriel White will remove her
mezzo-soprano to , Europe. She’s the girl
who sang “Ben Bolt” to Nellie Stewart’s
“Trilby.” Soprano Ernestine Lohat and con-
tralto Emilie Lambert are also off oh the
sunset trail at ah early date.
Violinist J. W. Coad, who left Sydney in
1909 for the call of the catgut in Vienna and
Brussels, jumped ashore in this port last
week. Coad, who is said to be as shy as he
was when he departed—that is to say. as
shy as a bandicoot or wallaby—had
some exhilarating experiences abroad. He
studied under Sevcik ih. Vienna, and Calea
Thomson in Brussels, and heard all the great
fiddlers of the earth in sundry places. Coad
sat through a two days’ performance of “The
Ring” in Brussels, with much enthusiasm.
The whole staff from conductor to drum-
stick had been transported from Cologne,
Dresden and Stuttgart for the show, Wagner
being a heavyweight religion in the waist of
Europe.
Mr. Denison Miller, of the Bank of New
South Wales in this settlement, writes from
Chicago to a friend over here concerning the
uproarious success of contralto Eva Mylott.
The statuesque lady of the auburn locks tra-
velled as soloist with a famous symphony
orchestra through U.S., and, since then, was
the only female voice in a big Kubelik
tour. Eva is timed to step off the gangway
of an American liner on July 6. She starts
again for Vancouver on September 23, after
a season of song in Australian cities.
Artist Joe Wolinski has been vigorously
chasing good-looking scenery in this State
with a camp-stool and paint-box. He means
to show the results in London, where he
leaps ashore some time in May. Wolinski
fears no cow with crumpled horns, and has
been known to plank his tools down within
earshot of the wash in a milk-bucket. But
the bush holds more terrors than a dairy
herd. When last seen, J.W. banged his hat
down on his artistic brow, clenched his pal-
ette, and vowed to paint Yassberra or perish
with thirst in one of its dry waterlioles. Has
he perished? A dreadful suspicion (mingled
with sawdust, soot, loud noises, and other
relics of The Bulletin fire) permeates this
office. Has the lost Wolinksi left the bones
of his palette knife to bleach on the boulders
of the Cotter?
Artist Norman Carter is wrestling with a
holiday at Springwood. Any oddments left
over he devotes to black-and-white work.
Norman Lindsay the First departed to the
Mountains last week, to pick up the missing
link on the road to Perfect Recovery. He is
putting on weight, and promises to take
better care of his flesh next time he catches
it. At present he is doing without flesh,
and when he turns the knife-edge of his per-
sonality sideways, the police look for him in
vain.
A Highland cousin, 14 times removed,
used to be considered a fairly near relative
in the Land of Peat, but that’s knocked out
of date by the rush of modern life. A Syd-
ney man vouches for this: “Stiggins was
warning me off a casual acquaintance the
other day, with such large, emphatic lan-
guage that I chipped in: ‘You seem mighty
interested in him—how d’you come to know
so much about his affairs?’ ‘lt’s this way,’
he said: ‘Biggins is a sort of relative of
mine —I married his divorced wife!’ ”
A nervy lady, who shrieks at the smallest
and slowest beetle, tells a shuddersome tale
of a mountain holiday. She had a nice bed-
room opening off the verandah. Just outside
there was a comfortable lounge chair with
stylish blue-silk cushions, and therein and
thereon she was in the habit of sitting and
doing fancy-work. One afternoon, she
fancied she felt the chair stir beneath her,
but put it down to her shaky nerves, and
went for a walk to steady them. When she
returned, she found quite a crowd armed with
sticks intently watching the door of her
room, and waiting for a snake that had been
seen by a maid to crawl from under the chair
cushions. Then the nervy lady recognised
that she had reasonable cause to swoon, and
swoon she did in the good old style.
Paris had an Exposition of ancient hel-
mets the other day, and the fashion-mon-
gers drew inspirations from it for various
dreams or nightmares (which you will) of
hats. The new “models” will be here soon.
The spectacle of mild old Mrs. Sniffkins
(the same, my dear, who so subtly suggests
by her manner and appearance that her
husband habitually kicks her) in an Oliver
Cromwell helmet should add a needed note
of joy and humor to our somewhat stuffy
“block” parade.
The flapper is filling the old-fashioned
mother with vague apprehensions. The days
when letter’s, both outward and inward,
were severely censored —which is to say
opened, and, if in the slightest degree over
the moral odds, burned, to the accompani-
ment of loud sniffs—are gone, never, seem-
ingly, to return. Presents get through the
seminary .gates these days as readily as they
penetrate the stage door. The other day, a
wide-eyed innocent was discovered by the
principal of her education-foundry, gloating
over a set of particularly solid silver brushes,
with monogram and other luxurious devices,
complete. Of course, the maiden “didn’t
know, really ,” who could have sent them.
Yours in a sadly singed office,
VANDORIAN.


m
99
m
m.
m
552
✓.Kiena'ww
a
-«s
JW4?
• fetSQtf
pmEr- . -
Ml
ws
■AV>%E*-3
A*?
Mm
m
;',■' .ii
s&rs'n l
SdK'-'VW^)^'
wa
mm;.
XT*?,
m
TS
S?4*
' ''<s
im
J ’ % llg
■A'
&6j«£r;
r* \
c*w.
ww*
tr >
V/#&k;4€B*^^
rWSSSfe
# _
m
££%s
. ,S
BE«i
eke
gS
SHnesss
; v\:
Sc •-', Usi
sfci* n
& 11 L<&
v a!
<?•«
A,' l
Mi
:•■ MS®
iSwf
¥js*3
H
R
m
«s> i
p
•<4
MM
mims
KSB
g as
HH
A' i
wmm
U
sa
f 'if
IiSM
1 K
I • «
SA
> si
mm
ti>-
! j. 111 {
}.a
UTlpI
$$ -
m
* \i
.
S*e?^S
a®
s ;
ssk
8 /.<
m
m
rliPP^P^^
4
Mr^'SV
KfflD &
:< H.
I;
ji. .
_W<>*
if: f|
jy*s
S (H
te
! ■• * 1
yr
lill'f,
isiiiiiii 4r
mm
..4-
‘^kmX.smXi
mu
mm
* »mW««S*S2!iSKS ?
ri
81 It
!<f»j
K»
'( ■; *
m
*«v./»,
. AH
rafi
OfK
Kwmm
in
m
mmm
mm m
wim
mWmmm ivl i h>t\« >. J , *
M
M
wm
? !
mm
nmmt
in
"■A
m\
’Xfi |
BH^li \\yiilHHi
i?-i
rwmmmmmm
M 0, !| I
5 ? t:'C Vi i. •'. i f
v M;H
, Vi ! , • I. <•• '■ •■• 1: \ i *. I ! ‘ i< i •• I f .
'■«|j ; i'f-U.iH l U ?J9MU 1
j!i;
;.a ijiHHfj idlf|h ; Hi|
SHHb> Nn
ifelHlSj itllfllfl
Wi
Sur
tof&msv'M
> f yXfX'XXr'" wtiWffitt*
£'*!}***'*> <'./•'*• , t
?r.--‘ • / '. / ; . y - ••■ , r vA.VI
r M
ill liii
si
>!/•« --• ••'<.- i ,- r-V/j•?•'• '‘/'.j > r • >'.; ,• raM^
ii»Il!i
h-
li i i (
ifcMi ; -ii.lUi;
iwiii
■■■■■■<
>.'•••
; v;
*v:a--s:r
Mi J fc-*
'KA'A
COBRA, 15he Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, S6c Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Travels in his
Old canoe
Down the shining
Hallway River
Where no whisp’ring
Reed-beds quiver.
Like DickArnston
The Zambesi
Chunder paddles
Gay and easy.
No wild hippos
Can demolish
Him! THE RIVER’S
MADE OF POLISH 1


nr
zy
The Shirt of Ancient
AND
the Shirt of Modern Times
AT FARMER’S.
For ages man has struggled in and out of his shirt, in the
same hair-raising, temper-ruffling and generally inconvenient way,
which doubtless originated when that garment was made from the
skin of an animal, with holes for head and arms.
But the 20th century brings the ideal garment in Farmer’s
Coat Shirt. As implied by its name, the Coat Shirt is put on
and off, and buttoned like a coat. We have them in Tunic Shape of
Fancy Striped Zephyr, and White Dress Shirts, soft fronts, of fancy
design.
PRICES:
Tunic Shirts 8/0 each.
White Dress Shirts 8/0 & 11/0 each.
FARMER’S,
SYDNEY
Cat
M
y
DUNLOP
Golf a
Balls
Have no equal,
Quality,
Balance
m
Wea
Obtainable
all
Boot
store 3
Opecify
"Dunlop
Brand"
ertrytuyuyu
DUN
P
RiJ
Ensure
Easy&
Comfortable
WalKing.
Dunlop Rubber Co.-all States & MZ
ertrytuyuyu
USE
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
It pays—their strength and quality
ensures a big mileage, and every
satisfaction
Obtainable all Garagres, but
see you g-et “DUNLOPS."
DUNLOP
GARDEN HOSE
Lasts for Years and
does not kink or burst
OBTAINABLE ALL STOREKEEPERS.
ACCEPT ONLY “DUNLOP” BRANDS.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. All States and N. 2.
DUNLOPKELLY
50LID RUBBER-
VEHICLE
.TYRES
absorb all
noise and
vibration,
double the
life of your
vehicle, and
last for
years. Fit-
ted from
£5 and
upwards,
price List Posted
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
Mt SUKSftBLX',
I*3
U
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 19, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The five weeks of Court mourning for the
Duke of Fife hasn’t worried vice-royalty
much. Both Excellencies attended the Test
match, and are booked to appear at the
Melba matinee, and the vaster of the two
constellations has given several lunches and
dinners during this black-edged period. The
Court mourn is a limited sort of affair, seem-
ingly, in the case of those who are not born
in the purple.
State Governor Fuller borrowed Federal
Government House for a Scouts’ rally, while
its rightful occupants were away at polo.
The youngsters lined up along the quarter-
mile drive to be reviewed, and then prowled
through the grounds and crawled into the
Domain, on mysterious scouting exhibitions.
There were 700 boys and some thousands of
relations and friends. The rally is a sort
of full-dress rehearsal of a proposed mid-
winter muster. Baden Powell visits Aus-
trialia in June (with characteristic humor-
lessness, the greatest military self-advertiser
of the age is coming under the auspices of a
firm of theatrical entrepreneurs), and the
boys want to be ready for him.
There was some blitheringly exciting polo
on Saturday, at Kooyong, when the Geebung
(forgive me, Geelong) Polo Club lost to Mel-
bourne by one goal. Lord Denman left Caul-
field in time to hurl himself madly into his red
jacket and participate in the second cliukka.
lie slogged four of the nine Melbourne goals
off his own bent stick. His dapper aidelet
Nutting looms quite large on a polo pony,
partly owing to a lengthy waist, partly to a
cunning tailor. He rode and smote with
almost as much skill and energy as his chief.
The two Cunninghams came up from Gee-
long, and Syd Orr and Norman Belcher
were the other green-jackets from the
churchy city.
Miss Dorothy de Jersey Grut is to be
married at the end of the month to Mr.
Guyon Purchas. She was one of the regu-
lar sweet-sellers (and very delightful she
looked in the bib and tucker she mostly af-
fected) at our amateur theatricals. The
O’Hara maidens were habitual accomplices
of hers in the grim business of tearing
money off the members of the ancient regime,
and others, for sweet Charity’s sake. One
of their favorite methods of accomplishing
this end was to hurry out to some suburban
wild or other and pose as living pictures.
The ruse never failed.
One of the Grice girls is on the verge of
her majority or something. The glad event
is to be celebrated by a dance at St. Kilda
Town Hall on the 4th of next month.
Theodore Fink’s daughter and her re-
cently-acquired bridegroom have returned
from foreign parts. They propose to keep
Willyama warm for Theodore (also in good
repair and free from moth, white ant and
similar pests), what time he explores the
European continent.
Mrs. Jim McEvoy continues to show Mel-
bourne the way to lead the really smart life.
A truly delectable vision she looks, in the
early morning hours, as, booted and
breeched, with immaculate coat and stock,
she rides in chase of that rare quarry, the
breakfast appetite. A sturdy henchman
rides a careful four paces to the rear, watch-
ful lest some lawless citizen should attempt
to purloin his dazzling charge.
The young widow Julie O’Brien, a sister
of Mrs. Tom Hogan, was married, at the
Jesuit Church, Glenferrie, last week, to
Edward Goll, a small but hairy pianist, who
came to Australia with the Ben Davies com-
pany. The wedding was very quiet in all
respects save the bride’s gown of gobelin
blue reseda. The twain leave for foreign
parts shortly, with small daughter Marie
O’Brien, and the bride’s mother. The new
Mrs. Edward Goll is an ardent music-lover,
and has a voice like a member of the Hea-
venly choir.
The Wrixon lady’s daughter, Maud, who
came from Fogland lately to stay with her
mother awhile, is a reminder to Sassiety
veterans of the days when Governor Loch
reigned at the ungainly mansion by the
Yarra, and the sweet condescension of “dear
Lady Loch” was the talk of Toorak. Mrs.
Stanley, who revives these memories of the
past r < was quite a girl when she left Mel-
bourne. She returns with silvered locks,
but in her face and figure she is not much
altered from the beauty of long ago. Her
elder sister gave her hand to a Stanley who
was aide to Governor Loch, and the calamity
so preyed on Miss Maud’s mind that she
went and married her sister’s husband’s little
brother, though she was then barely out of
her teens. The young couples went to Eng-
land to live.
In the midst of a Cabinet meeting, last
week, at a moment, mayhap, when the fate
of this vast continent hung precariously like
three brass balls in the air, word was
brought to Prime Minister Fisher that a
new son had been born to him. He received
the news with an air of almost superhuman
calm —like the classic young person who, in
one of the great crises of her life, “went on
eating bread and butter.” The fact is,
Andrew, having five boys and a daughter
already, has ceased to be convulsed with agi-
tation‘at the working of Nature’s inexorable
laws.
The wedding of Miss Muriel Henderson
and Mr. Sep Miller was postponed at short
notice; the bride’s father died just before
the Wednesday on which the ceremony was
booked to occur, of congestion of the lungs.
He had been in poor health for some time.
The death of Mr. Dejardin—which was
cabled out last week —will recall many mem-
ories of the late Consul for France. He was
one of the most popular monsieurs this city
ever knew. He was very quiet and free
from affectation. Also, he was a brilliant
conversationalist in the language lie found so
difficult to speak idiomatically. His wife,
who was a French-Canadian, dressed as only
a Frenchwoman can. She was chatty, amus-
ing and exceedingly handsome. The only
daughter, Sophie, left here when a school-
girl, and returned to us as the bride of her
one-time playfellow. Ken MacKinnon. They
are living on the Upper Murray.*
Titian-haired Mrs. Millar and her niece,
Belle Whyte, are trying flat life at the Mel-
bourne Mansions, since their return from
their European wanderings. Such of the
Bowes Kelly family as did not come over to
meet the pair returned this week from the
Apple Island. The young ones came back
to school. The elders arrived to face the
domestic servant problem, which goes about
like a raging lion seeking what it may
devour.
It is announced that the wave of matri-
mony has caught Henrietta MacGowan, the
Age scribe, and Frank Walker, as they were
sauntering down the pathway of a platonic
friendship. Nevertheless, their friends de-
cline to show any surprise over the affair.
Miss MacGowan is the busiest writer in
Melbourne. She is an authority upon the
subject of cross stitch, and can cook like a
professional. Her late father was Deputy
Postmaster-General in Victoria.
“Allie” Marshall, son of the popular Scots’
Church divine, is engaged to a daughter of
Captain Banter. “Allie” travels for Dal-
gety’s, and lias a persuasive and commercially
useful way with him, inherited doubtless
from the clerical side of his family. Another
of Captain Panter’s daughters is the wife of
Western District squatter Hamilton Baird.
The Kirkpatrick warrior and his grey-
haired dame have taken a sizeable residence
in Hopetoun-road, Malvern, not far from the
vice-regal residence ; and with their children,
servants and the family cat will shortly
sleep on the premises.
Toorak’s Very Best were invited the other
Sunday, by Grandmama Fisken, to the chris-
tening feast of Miss O’Hara. She was labelled
Sheila Charlotte by a parson with the omin-
ous name of Drought. If I 'were a Queens-
land squatter, I think I would jib at having
my family christened by a divine named
Drought.
Which reminds me that Mr. Noel Bligh,
second son of the noble and belted Darn-
leys, is engaged to an English girl named
Miss Jack Frost. Lady Darnley is what
the “Liberal” papers term an ex-Australian.
One of our most prominent grass-widows
has received exasperating proof that her
absent hubby is still interested in her. It
took the form of a set or collection of
divorce-papers. A friend of hers, a bright
young local toothsmith, has received similar
tokens of remembrance and disregard.
Evelyn French, grand-nephew of the de-
funct Samuel Wilson knight, and nephew
of Mrs. Robert Power, should be an au-
thority on the subject of how to be clever
without sticking to your job. He tried the
British Army, but tired of it, or something,
and returned to Australia and the land,
where he apparently drew a blank. His
next venture was a school for “Colonial Ex-
perience,” on the banks of the Thames,
where young Englishmen were taught boun-
dary riding in half a dozen lessons. An in-
sufficiency of pupils, or something, drove the
preceptor to the Halls, where he gained some
fame in a stockwhip turn. The stockwhip
now hangs on the wall, and its owner has
taken to black-and-white art. Mrs. Evelyn
French is a daughter of the late V.R.C.
starter Watson, one of the famous Irish
family of horsemen who have ridden in half
a dozen Grand Nationals. .
Last week, Dr. Cyril Clarke, third son of
his Gaiters of Melbourne, and Miss Con-
stance Anderson, the Bishop of Riverina’s
eldest daughter, had the knot tied at St.
Paul’s Pro-catliedral, Hay, by their two right
reverend fathers, with some slight assist-
ance from an outsider. It almost looks as if
they didn’t want the job to go out of the
family—or, perhaps, it was only the church-
man’s dislike to paying out fees.
The engagement is announced of Robert
Grieg, of this city of Wearyopolis, and
pretty Miss Beatrice Holloway, leading lady
of the “Beauty and the Barge” co., and
daughter of the late Charles Holloway. The
Griegs were great people in Melbourne be-
fore the bank smashes started to tear folks
down from high places and deposit them
in suburban hash-towers. Grieg senior
had the painful experience of finding him-
self a millionaire one week, and a plain citi-
zen with a large family and a microscopic
income, the next. “Bob Grieg has been
doing extremely well, as home-grown actors
go, for the past half-dozen years. He is a
vast, stout, carefully-groomed young man,
with a face like an Archbish-m Miss Bea-
trice is one of those charming and clever
local products who make it a standing mys-
tery why our managements trouble to go
abroad so persistently for HHr stars.
Percy Benison, the clever black-and-white
artist, whose intentions Were wavering of
late between Melbourne (where his art was
cradled) and Sydney (where he came to try
the climate and business atmosphere), has
decided in favor of the last-named city.
After a brief review of the situation at liis
native spot, he is returning to Sydney this
week to find a studio and make liis domi-
cile, with the joyful approval of his better
half. Percy, who was never in the least
corpulent, reduced his avoirdupois by a stone
during the few trial months by the harbor,
and claims to be the “fittest” young man in
the black-and-white world at the present
moment. But are there many overweighted
ones among the brethren ? The Lindsays,
Sass, Colles, Dave Low and Hal Gye, at
any rate, seem to have modelled their figures
on the lines of the proverbial sardine.
The J. C. Williamsons arrived, aboard the
good ship Otway, at the ghastly hour of 5.00
a.m. Dick Bow, the Tail's, Tallis, Braey
and a few other devoted spirits were there
to meet them. Mrs. J. C. gave a further
boost to her reputation for knowing a thing
or three by not being in evidence at the
time, or, for that matter, till long after the
last rooster had saluted the dawn. It was
11 of the clock, or thereabouts, before she
turned up, looking radiant and ready to
motor to Menzies’ or elsewhere. She ex-
plained to anxious enquirers that the five
o’clock medical inspection at Fremantle had
absorbed her enthusiasm for early rising.
The authorities at W.A. brusquely warned
the passengers that a £lO fine would be
handed—“irrespective of persons,” as the in-
furiated advt. of the lady who has had “her
character libelled,” hath it —to those who
failed to put in an appearance. Women
turned out in despair and hairbraids,
looking for the most part like nothing out
of a seminary for Man-Spurners. One dame
took her place in the dishevelled queue in
a dream-robe and a monster muff; another
wore an overcoat, and made frantic grabs- at
her knees as she progressed, with the object
of sustaining her sagging hose. A dreary,
aye, a tragic spectacle, my dear, and one
that was rendered the more bitter by the
presence of the occasional she-cat, who, hay-
ing been at the game before, was in a posi-
tion to march insolently into the presence
of the Faculty, bathed, tailored, hatted and
in her right mind.
Mrs. Williamson wore an adorable gown
at “Sinbad,” on Saturday night—a dream of
ivory satin, with priceless lace flattened on
the front breadth, in the way great-grand-
aunt called a “panel.” Touches of black
gave the whiteness a dashing air. The en-
veloping cloak was a white crepe, with a
Paquin cut, and showers of cherry blossom
petals on the shoulders. She has brought
baby Tootles with her and left daughter
Marjory at school in Paris. Marjory is
taking control of the school theatricals ; she
plavs lead, and yearns with a great yearning
for’ the Stage and Dad’s consent.
The Brighton Ladies’ Swimming Carnival
had a great day out t’other Saturday after-
noon. Not a man over three years old dis-
turbed the peace of that Adamless Eden;
but the girls swam none the slower for that.
Lily Beaurepaire won the championship
race, which the Gaud Mayoress started.
Parson Crawford’s 13 years’ old marine flap-
per outpaced all the grown-up competitors in
the local championship struggle. The chil-
dren’s race was the most satisfactory event
all round. There were no blanks ; everyone
triumphed more or less; the race was not
onlv to the swift, but to the slow. The first,
second, third, last and youngest all received
prizes. And there were consolation gifts for
those who ended in the middle, and, I under-
stand, special prizes for all who weren’t
bald or over 20 stone in weight.
Which recalls the fact that quite a bouquet
of swimming girls will go to Sydney to com-
pete for the championship. Lily Beaurepaire,
Lily Henderson and Daphne King are some
of them. Mrs. Cutler, of Brighton, will go
with the nut-brown mermaids as chaperone.
Miss Nora Crawford was to have gone, but
illness in the family keeps her at home.
From my Adelaide correspondent :
From London comes news that ‘‘Jack” Virgo, who
used to run our Y.M.C.A., is going as strong as ever.
He is a member of the’Combine or Trust which, at
last advices, was trying to raise £lOO,OOO in 12
days for a London Y.M.C.A. If the holy work fails,
I prophesy here and now that it will not be the fault
of our old friend.
Whether we’re dressing better, or merely spending
more money on clothes, I know -not. Anyhow, Mel-
bourne builders of hats and frocks are arriving in
steadily increasing numbers. Two big drapery estab-
lishments send their agents twice a year, and a
couple of ladies’ tailors journey here in their own
majesty periodically. Indeed, one of them made a
bid for permanent rooms the other day. The latest
to chase after our fluff-money is a firm of well-known
private dressmakers. The only folk who are swear-
ing with any violence are the shopkeepers. Their
language sounds like cats.
Ruthven Buildings, the new flattery in Pultenfiy-
street, was opened with a flourish of crumpets on
Monday, and there was a dinner, to which man
only was admitted. The dwelling-place seems to
furnish all that the soul of a harassed housewife can
desire, from an excellent cafe to a private letter-
pillar and a perpetual hot water supply. Already
a good many families are established there, including
the Evan Kyffin Thomases, the Vincents, the Barretts
from Lyndoch, Mrs, Pooler, with her daughter and
son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Clement Wells, and Mr. and
Mrs. Gordon Ayers. And there are others who haven’t
been able to get in yet.
The Simpson Newlands, who lately sold their house
at Burnside, have already tired of the Zingari busi-
ness seemingly. They have just bought a house in
North Adelaide, and are busy re-furnishing.
Holiday-makers are beginning to straggle home.
Miss Shiels and the Miss Phillipps are back from
Melbourne (the latter only to make ready for a trip
to England), and Miss Mabel Marryat has returned
from an exploration of the arid steppes of Yass-
Canberra. Chief Justice Way and his wife have re-
turned to Montefiore, after putting in six or eight
weeks at Sea View, their farm near Noarlunga.
Polo matches and country race meetings are about the
only public diversions that are flourishing just now.
The paddock on the day of the Martindale races
fairly bristled with motors, and the smell of petrol
hung heavy in the air. Mr. and Mrs. David Power
and the Mortlocks gave a large lunch, and gathered
thereto the squatting fraternity from the surround-
ing district.
Having burnt themselves out in the hills, the fires
have turned their attention to Yorke’s Peninsula.
Reports say that 100,000 acres have been swept round
Warooka, and there is endless poverty and distress.
The “relief funds” in the dailies are growing steadily,
which is well, in the circumstances. Elder Smith
and Co. have granted free pasturage for stock near
Cockburn, and the Government is expected to trans-
port the animals there at the usual Socialistic figure.
Miss Elsie Hall, who made her name here and in
New South Wales as a pianist, is on her way from
England, to pay her people a flying visit. When in
London it is her business to preside over the musical
destinies of Princess Mary, a billet which she prob-
ably owes to the fact that the Tennysons invited her
to play before the King and Queen when they were
in Adelaide as the Duke and Duchess of York.
Judge Homburg is still alive, which is about as
much as can be said ; the bulletins say “better,” but
he is still gravely ill.
The “town” of Kensington and Norwood takes it-
self seriously these days. While recently in England
Alderman Holden came adross a Freedom of Boroughs
Act. Toiling along the lines of this example the
Kensington and Norwood corporation has extended
the Freedom of its Town to Edwin Smith. The old
knight was Mayor of the place in 1857, which is so
long ago that during his spell of office he had hard
work to stay the mammoth from eating the cash
book. In these old, old days, the councillors were
armed with axes to keep Chaos from bursting into
the council chamber, and once the petty cash was lost
in the Flood.
This advt. from the ’Tiskr (you can see the hand
of a distracted missus behind it) shows how we’re
feeling about the eternal Marianne question: “Girl
getting married highly recommends light general’s
place, good home and wages, liberal outings. Milly,
this office.”
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


SfiMiStS
i®
W
:4sT'
m
;' V
1
: ■
H?
r^ n ;. 4i
fef
SAHT
' ■•*
m
A*l
SNSchw.Wc-S. f
> 4 '*' ■:■' V
m
m
a
m
m
m£
«
■£.<£•' 4 T?i
.
.
n
era! Waters
e
INC
■
in. i .
SARTO is made from the best Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root with special flavorings, the recipe for
which is held by Schweppes Ltd., exclusively. Sarto is a refreshing beverage, and being a blood
purifier has most excellent tonic properties. It is greatly improved by a slice of fresh lemon.
Head Office: 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
tlie World.
SCHWEPPES’ LEMON SQUASH
MADE FROM FRESH LEMONS.
WHEN ORDERING FRUIT JUICE CORDIALS SEE THAT YOU GET “SCHWEPPES.**
SCHWEPPES LIMITED, Purveyors by Special Appointment to His Majesty the King'. : .


Whether it's a convivial gather-
ing, a quiet nip with a friend or
a ** Jimmy Woodser” —the
liquor you'll like and that'll like
you best is
Watson’s No. 10
Whisky.
ertrytuyuyu
IMil
IT IS ALL-IMPORTANT.
D ENYER
to the rup-
tured person
to obtain the
Truss which
gives the
proper sup-
port and pro-
tection com-
bined with
comfort and
true fit.
These are _
tlie prominent features of
Denyer’s Special
Elastic Truss.
For Surfers— Special Soft Rubber Bathing
Truss. 12/6.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady in Attendance. Call or Write us.
DENYER BROS., Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Single, 1
Double, 22/6
Others from 3/6
POLITICAT
POINTS
[“Ock Gong Tong” a well-known Chinese secret
society.]
Another branch of the Labor party was
formed in Maoriland a few days ago. That
makes three —the Trades Hall party, the
Federation of Labor, and, now, the Indepen-
dent Labor party. Brethren and sistern, our
text for this morning will be from the First
Book of Common Sense, chapter one, verse
one. “Consider the sillies, how they grow!”
It is the King Country of the Ricketty
Islands that is having the land boom now.
At Te Kiuti recently a farm was sold at
£560, then at something like £BOO, then at
£l3so—all inside a day or so. If the right
quantity of hysteria can
be pumped into the next
man who comes along, he
will probably give £l5OO.
That is to say, he will
give £2OO and owe £l3OO,
whereupon he will start
the long struggle with
the mortgage; and as the
interest must be paid,
either the man’s infants
will have to toil in the
cowyard, or the nominal
boss will join the Farm-
ers’ Union and talk about
the rapacity of the la-
borer who wants 7s. a
day. If the freehold ever
falls down dead, it will
be chiefly because the
land-speculating parasite didn’t know when
to stop sucking.
The N.S.W. Premier did a notable whoop
last week over the alleged fact that, when-
ever the Panama Canal opens two more big
steamboat lines . will run to Sydney.
McGowen’s position is peculiar. He doesn t
know how to find room for the shipping that
is already in Sydney; and lie wants more
shipping there; and his railways are so
utterly congested that hundreds of thousands
of pounds’ worth of produce is being wasted
because it can’t get to Sydney ; and he won t
let it go anywhere else; and, at the same
time, he believes in decentralisation; and also
he wants to make the already impossible
crush far worse by bringing the Port Darwin
railway to the same old Sydney ; and he is
at his wits’ ends to house the people who are
in that big town already, and he looks kindly
on the Million Club, which seeks to bring
350,000 more people there as soon as possi-
ble. It is an entangled situation, but possi-
bly McGowen knows where he stands, and
possibly he doesn’t, and perhaps he doesn’t
stand anywhere, and maybe it doesn’t matter.
One of tlie hUihbrs of last week was the
'uprising of Spence, M.H.Ii., president of the
Australian Workers’ Union, to denounce
Strikers as something akin to “a lot of bush-
rangers.” The -jest lay in the fact that it
was the literary staff of the Worker that
! had revolted over its allegedly inadequate
wages. For the moment, Spence was cast
fdr the part of the Fat Sweater or the Capi-
talist dr something like that, and he boiled
over.
Varidus Maoriland Governments have
'given qr promised the people so many things
out of borrowed money that it becomes diffi-
cult to dig up a new policy. Joseph Ward
'now bids for a fragment of public support by
proposing to give old age pensions to widows
when they reach the age of 55. It would
be a fine idea if the country paid for it out
of its own resources. But when the foreign
loans blow out, and Maoriland has to cut
off this and a multitude of other benevo-
lences at the meter, because it has never
learned the art and mystery of honest
finance, it will be a worse disappointment for
the widows than if the kindly inspiration
had never been invented.
“By “Barranjoey” :• —
Anti-Australian James McGowen, Premier of New
South Wales, is going the whole State Fright hog.
Recently the Commonwealth lighthouse expert was
ordered’ to inspect the coast lights of Australia, pre-
paratory to the services being taken over from the
States. Except in N.S.W., every facility was
offered the Australian official, but McGowen, only
knowing Australia as a hostile foreign country, re-
fused to lend him one of the two Government
steamers to convey him to the inaccessible spots
where Ma has placed her beacons. The result is that
the hard-to-spare Australian trawler Endeavor has
to be yanked 1000 miles for the job. It is a pity
that McGowen is so big physically. If his body had
been proportioned to his mind, he would have made
an admirable mayor of Tiny Town.
The principal feature of South Aus. poli-
tics since the elections has been a disposition
to kick the Advertiser. That paper used to
he a good Democrat, somewhere on King-
ston’s lines, and, with the Register always
hardshell Conservative, it had all the ad-
vanced field to itself. When the Herald
lately started as a Labor daily, the ’Tiser
had the not always comfortable place in the
middle. The late elections found it still
sitting there. At the declaration of the
poll, then-Treasurer Vaughan called it “an
opponent more unscrupulous, and therefore
more to be feared, than the Register,”
while Blundell said it “might just as well
have said that it would wait for the final
returns before it expressed an opinion.
That day,” he added, “its leading article was
appropriately on ‘Mixed Bathing.’ ” But
Bonython doesn’t worry —he goes on smil-
ing over his advertisement columns and
his circulation, which are said to be about
equal to those of the other two papers put
together.
NOT A VERY DANGEROUS
PROCEEDING.
Mr. Wade knows, and the country knows, that the
time the Government came into office our reserves of
Crown lands available for settlement had been very
largely depleted, and it was necessary seriously to
consider how we were to meet the demands in the
future. The Government proceeded to do this in a
business-like manner. Machinery was set in opera-
tion for a general stock-taking of the Crown lands
available, whether unoccupied or held under Crown
leases. — Press item.
Premier McGowen (somewhat late): “ Yes, I
will settle the NS. IV. land problem! I
WILL TAKE STOCK ! ”
The silly plea that Australia should be left
utterly defenceless because, if its men are
trained to the military art, they may be em-
ployed to “shoot down the workers in a time
of industrial unrest” should now have a spell.
The general strike couldn’t have failed any
more decisively at Brisbane if its opponents
had had a military training. And the strik-
ers might have made a better showing if they
had had a military training themselves.
THE LAST HOPE.
It is an omen of what is pretty sure to happen in the other States... Liberalism has a difficult
task... most outstanding of which is the difference between Parochialism and the Federal spirit. ..
but Liberalism must rise superior to Parochialism...That is the first essential to success. ..The people
...cannot be described as conservative...They welcome what is called up-to-date legislation.— S. M.
Herald.
“Now, then, young matt, buck up! Here's yer chance! 1 know 'tain't zactly wot yer'd
prefer yerself, but yer'll just 'ave to be tactful an' look as if you've 'andled them
weppings all yer life an' would rather die than part with 'em!”
Many people traced the hand of Federal
Attorney-General Hughes in the document
whereby the Sydney waterside workers de-
clined to join in the suicidal games of Coyne
and his general strikers of Brisbane. It was
an affable and neat and nicely punctuated
pronouncement, but the meaning was as
plain as if it had been written with an axe,
and had a pound of raw meat for a full stop.
The Sydney workers would see the general
strike boiling in Moab first.
Sydney - Telegraph published, the other
day, an interview with N.S.W. Minister for
Agriculture Trefle. The headings to the
matter were set out thus: —
GOVERNMENT CRITICISM.
MR. TREFLE TO THE RESCUE.
THE PERFIDIOUS FARMER.
This naturally appeared the overture to some
abuse of the farming community, whereas
nothing of the kind appeared in the body of
the article. Of course, Trefle kicked, and
next day, with the hide of an old man rhino-
ceros, the paper appeared with a small para-
graph explaining that the D.T., not Trefle,
had invented the “Perfidious Farmer” head-
ing. Trefle, being a political opponent, and
the farmer a mere political tool, no apology
seemed necessary.
From London:
After ex-G.-G. Dudley had given his impressions
of Australia in the Whitehall Rooms, on January 9
dressed, by the way, in all his orders and decorations,
with stars, crosses, medals and ribbons galore—Dr.
McCall, Tasmania’s Agent-General, took the oppo-
s'te view about the Australian navy. McCall worked
himself up to a howling gale of excitement, looked
like having a fit of apoplexy, became very red in the
face, and bellowed at the top of his voice, as if he
were addressing a Sunday afternoon gathering in
Hyde Park. The audience laughed uproariously at
the little man’s unnecessary vehemence. McCall
could not find words to his contempt
for a local Australian navy, and he ended in a
splutter. If he had his way he would vote millions
of Australian money to the British Admiralty and
thus get the genuine article. In his heroic ardor he
looked as if he would even hand over Tasmania’s
share in the profits of Tattersall’s sweeps for this
lofty Imperial purpose. When the whirlwind had
died down, Dudley quietly remarked that no country
was likely to vote millions in that way without hav-
ing any voice in the spending thereof, and dropped
McCall at that.
The way of the Independent is hard nowa-
days, and' mostly leads to the ash-heap. S.
Aus. had only one notable specimen of the
breed —E. H. Coombe, who had sat for
Bar ossa (Gawler) for a dozen years. When
Peake, the former Independent leader, saw
that the track was getting harder and
harder, he climbed the fence and became a
“Liberal,” and Coombe was the only member
who didn’t scuttle after him. Coombe had
some “Liberal” ideas and a good many Labor
ones; and, having been told 10 million times
or thereabouts that it was a fearful thing to
sell yourself to any caucus, he went ahead
and tried to score off his own bat. Where-
upon Barossa dropped him with a great
bump, and put in a “selected Liberal, who
could be relied upon to vote steadily every
time the party whip cracked, and not
merely when he thought the party was right.
S. Aus. “Liberals” still talk, however, of the
degradation of the caucus, and pour wither-
ing scorn on the Labor “machine.”
THAT TIRED FEELING.
It is not natural to have that tired feeling, day in
and day out, that you go to bed with at night and
get up with in the morning—it is a sure sign that
your system is out of order. To refresh yourself and
regain that strong vigorous feeling, you should take
a course of Chamberlain’s Tablets. They will
strengthen your stomach and stimulate your liver
and bowels to renewed activity; although you have
not realised it, it is these organs that have caused
that tired feeling. There is no better medicine made
for all disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels
than Chamberlain’s Tablets.*
With regard to Chappell and Co.’s music advertise-
ment of the 15th inst., they omitted to include in the
list of contents of Dance Album 155, the celebrated
waltz, “False Bleu.” These albums are. by The way,
remarkably cheap, their price being only Is.
KLISTIAN TACTICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Revolutionaries “took up a collection” of
HO,OOO taels (abopt £5500), and a hundred or two
barrow loads of more bulky but less valuable
‘‘‘cash.”. .. .Hundreds of missionaries had to make
hazardous journeys to get into safety.-— Wail of re-
turned Sky-Pilot, from China.
Missionary, ’loaming wide,
'Come down sittee Canton-side;
Startem chulches, ’ling a bell —
Save-ee Heathen Chow from Hell.
Missionary, simple plan—•
timid China man:
•Chalgee fee for Heaven’s Gate,
JS endem ’found collection plate.
’Levolution, far and wide,
Come down sittee Canton-side ;
Missionary pleach and play:
“F’liends! Choose ye the lilistian way!”
Klistian way ? Ah, welly ni’ !
Understandee him, by Kli’ !
“Makee welly flightened stlaight,
Sendem ’lound collection plate.”
Allee heathen, big and small,
Catchee hatchets, make-ee call;
Missionary come to door:
“Holy Kli’!” he say, “Whaffor?’
Heathen say: “We call along,
Contlibution ‘Ock Gong Tong’!
Turnee table, savee you?
Sauce fo’ Gander, sauce fo’ Goo’!
“Fillem-up wheelballow, mate!
Topside him collection-plate!”
Missionary tearee wool—
Heathen take-ee bajlow-full.
B’ling wheel-ballow nexee day:
Missiona’lly ’lun away !
No trust Joss-House up in sky?
P’litty Klistian him, by Kli’!
VICTORIA.
HOO MUCKAT.
DO YOU HAVE
INDIGESTION?
Then you should know the Tonic
Treatment is the natural way
to Cure Indigestion.
As Indigestion in any form occurs when
the stomach has become too weak to properly
perform the duties of digestion, persons who
suffer with the complaint need a tonic that
will strengthen the digestive organs. A lot
of people have proved that the tonic treat-
ment with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills has
cured them of severe Indigestion. As a stom-
ach tonic Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills can be
recommended with much confidence. Firstly,
for scientific reasons, because the processes
of digestion are controlled by the blood and
nerves, and Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
widely known for their blood making quali-
ties. There’s the other important reason—
they have cured hundreds of cases of Indi-
gestion. Below we give particulars of a re-
cent cure.
“I used to suffer dreadfully from Indiges-
tion,” said Miss J. Kelly, 73 George Street,
Perth, W.A. “Directly I had eaten any-
thing I would; get an oppressed feeling all
over me, and at the end of the _ breast-bone
such a heavy weight and a burning pain. I
hardly dared look at a meal table sometimes,
though I would long to eat something, and
often I would half-starve myself to see if
that would do me any good. I never knew
when an attack would come on. My tongue
was generally rough and furry, and my
mouth always had a nasty taste. I suffered
so much from wind I would feel quite dis-
tended, and it would settle round my heart
and make it flutter and beat most irregu-
larly. I would wake up unrefreshed, and
during the day I would feel as heavy and
drowsy as could be, and regularly pulled
down and fit for nothing. The attacks would
last about half an hour, after each meal, and
then gradually wear away, but I could
always feel an uneasiness. Rich things, of
course, were out of the question. A course
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, however, eased
off the painful attacks and benefited me in
every way, and I can honestly vouch for
them. The first box did me good, and six
cured me altogether.”
It is well to remember that it was Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills and not an imitation
that cured Miss Kelly. Getting the genuine
is an important thing in a cure. They are
sold by most chemists and storekeepers, or
will be sent direct by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, on
receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes
15s. 3d.


Steinway
Brinsmead
Feurich.
»»-NICHOLSON’S
ORGANS.
Mason and Hamlin
Bell.
We Sell for Cash or on Easy Terms.
We Take Old Instruments in Exchange.
NICHOLSON 8 CO., Limited,
Sydney, Newcastle, Orange, Brisbane, Toowoomba.
800,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed In Australia.
Price Is. each f Post Free, Is. Id.
GENTLEMAN JACK.
By DON DELANEY. Illustrated. Price is. Post Free Is. Id,
Bushranging' for revenge, not profit, is the keynote of “Gentleman 1 Jack,” and those who are
in search of startling episodes and splendid situations should peruse this veritable romance of bush-
ranging. “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” is not one whit more remarkable than this tale of the man
who is bushranger and lover by turns, and who creates that air of mystery throughout that is so
dear to the reader’s heart. . .
Altogether a rattling story, apart from the fact that the doings of the notorious Ben Hall
gang are woven in with the main plot, and lend it a keen note of tragedy.
A book one is likely to read from cover to cover before leaving off.
DAN KELLY—OUTLAW.
Being the Memoirs of Daniel
Kelly (brother of. Ned Kelly, leader
of the Kelly Gang). Edited by Ambrose Pratt. With four full-page illustrations by Percy Spence.
Price Is., Postage Id.
In the whole history of Australian Bushranging no gang was more notorious than that captained
by Ned Kelly. Various accounts of the doings of this gang have appeared, but none bears the hall-
mark of truth so pointedly as these leaves from a dead man’s diary, as edited by Mr. Pratt, who has
presented the story so convincingly that, for tense interest and exciting events, it has few, if any,
equals.
Dan Kelly was the only member of the gang who escaped the clutches of the law, and his account
of the last stand at Glenrowan is a veritable human document.
THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN RANGE.
By AMBROSE PRATT. Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay. Price is., Post Free Is. Id.
Mr. Ambrose Pratt’s work is so well and favorably known to our Australian readers that there
is no need to enlarge on it. In this new book he very graphically describes the doings of the Ben
Hall gang of bushrangers and goes to some trouble to give the true ring of authenticity to his
work. The many stirring episodes in Ben Hall’s life are depicted with such skill that, while we
are reading actual historical happenings, the whole thing has an air of romance that some might
say was worthy of a better cause. Some hitherto unpublished parts throw a new light on Hall’s
character, and show how, in those days, there were many police-made criminals. Decidedly this is
a book worth buying and keeping.
STELLA SOTHERN,
A Tale of the Bush and Bohemia.
By IVAN ARCHER ROSENBLUM.
Illustrated by Harry Julius.
Price Is., Post Free Is. Id.
The Bush and Bohemia to most minds are social extremes, and often mean innocence and the
opposite, and Stella Sothern’s experiences in both spheres are worth knowing. Mr. Rosenblum speaks
of things as he has seen them, and no one, after reading this book, will say he is far wrong. The
work is cleverly done, and is sure to bring the author into further prominence amongst our Austra-
lian writers of fiction.
But “Stella Sothern” is not all fiction ; rather it is fiction founded upon fact, and emphasises the
old adage that “truth is stranger than fiction.” The scenes in Bohemia—Australian Bohemia at that
—are quite unique, and should arouse a lot of interest.
Lists Sent Post Free to any Address.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney,
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
Just slip the Strop
thro the Razor
M an, with
that requires
knows that
ertrytuyuyu
0
0
0
r
0
A
&
Jy a stropped blade will give you
e same perfect shave every day. The
utoStrop is the only Safety Razor that
ops itself. It is, therefore, the only one
gives a velvety shave every day of the
It; takes 12 seconds to strop and
as easy to clean—nothing to adjust or
e apart. One blade lasts for months.
Auto Strop Safety Razor, with ii t * '
blades, horsehtde strop, in case; 22/ 6
At all High-class Dealers.
Razor Go, Ltd.
fit, New Oxford Street, London, W.C.
Every Victorian
Motor Cycle Event of
-'■****&#;_ jv a •’"*’&& -«*.?- '.T“S
.
~r f
:P ; -gp
rf~ ~ (DCn Zllt^/-
—4*- Mile_ Special, 'f*
■'"
~ „ : ;rr3 : \-^^a« B^ecbr«»^ s? ~" '-*>*- •--..
#--»> Mile Boacf ~ : ..,
- _TT"' (Australaalan Record) ~ ".Z.".
- ~ - : ;j& a CTlvm «
_, _ ;;rr-" (Aujtra!as:a»ft ecord) A
BaiJarat to Melbourne ” y , A!!
"::sr CO.
Victorian~24 -Hburs , r ” rrfz;" ” Pty. Ltd.


ertrytuyuyu
KUPPER
LACER
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES Si CO., PERTH, KALCOOWLIE anti
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
When the team for the N.S.W. match
against the Englishmen was allowed to transpire,
there were great hopes that it might score a brilliant
victory, and put the Australian, XI to shame. Those
hopes died right 'out when the Cornstalks were dis-
missed for a miserable 106. Despair got hold of Ma,
and men walked the streets gloweringly, declaring
that the cricket patch required fallowing for three
years or so. The way Rhodes smote the bowling
when the English started to bat did not improve the
local feelings. Gloom fell upon Sydney and enveloped
Australia. Then Ilazlitt arrived, and seven wickets
fejl for 95 runs. Had Ilazlitt come sooner, the re-
sqlt might have been different; but the Englishmen
had got the start, and the innings yielded 315, so
that Australia opened the second session 209 to
the bad. Trumper piled up 53, and was run out, and
when stumps were drawn, Gregory (26) and Bardsley
(five) held the fort. Next day Bardsley added three
to, his meagre lot, and was clean bowled by Foster.
Gregory continued to hold the fort, and defied the
bowlers, .bowl they never so cunningly. So the score
crept up and up and up. If only another man had
risen to the height of Gregory, the match would have
been saved. But one by one they faded out, till
Gregory alone-was left, with 186 against his name,
and a total of 403 for the innings. England started
on the second session, requiring 195 to win. It was
a'big task, but the Englishmen made light of it.
Their win Was an eight Wickets affair, Rhodes being
the centurion of the occasion. Hobbs was dislodged,
for a change, for the paltry score of 14.
The Ilill-McAlister affair had a most un-
satisfactory ending. The Board met to deal with the
matter, and after much to-do, much going to and
fit), many confabulations, an adjournment and, pre-
sumably, some drinks, the meeting was resumed. Hill
expressed his regret to the Board that the unfortu-
nate affair had taken place, and the Board then ap-
plied the' whitewash'and extended him an invitation
to go to England as captain of the Australian XI. It
received no assurance that the invitation Would'be
accepted, and there was no word of withdrawing the
“ultimatum.” In fact, the word is all the other way,
and the drooping tails of the insurgents have been
much lifted by the incident, which they affect to re-
gard as a sign of weakening on the part of the
Board. But, in all probability, the affair is now
efided. The Six cannot accept conditionally, so they
must accept unconditionally. The Board cannot
agree to Laver going as. manager at the dictation of
the Six, as the full team When chosen will have, ac-
cording to the Constitution, the right to select its
manager, and the Board has the right of veto. If
the Six can persuade the rest of the team to elect
Laver manager, . that is the only possible chance of
trouble. Of course, they may try to bully the rest
of the XI into accepting their nominee by threaten-
ing to resign if they are not allowed to rule the
roost, but the marvellous, recovery of N.S.W. against
the English XI last Monday is likely to be sufficient
answer to any attempt of that sort. The .Board of
Control should certainly have dealt’ it out to Hill
fd,r his action towards McAlister; but'it may be for-
given that for the masterly way in which it has
djshed the insurgents.
Little Syd Gregory, who, by scoring 186
mo. for N.S.W. on Monday last, demonstrated to the
bowlers of England that they are, after all, only
human, belongs to the old school. Twenty-two years
ago he Visited England with the Australian XI, and
his form in this season’s grade and representative
cricket has been good enough to put him before most
of those who fell in the Tests; Still more, Gregory
is a reliable fielder, which cannot be said of many
of this season’s Australian XI. All the same, his
chances of going to England aghin are remote.
If some of the blighters who have re-
cently been fluting about “putting up the money”
to send “home” and finance an “independent” Aus-
tralian XI (which would not be recognised by the
Marylcbone Club, and would, in consequence, have
to play upon the village commons) really have cash
to burn, this paper has much pleasure in suggesting
that they put up the money to send an all-round
team of Australian representatives to Stockholm.
Take that road race around Lake Malar, for instance.
Australians are the best road racers on earth, but
they will not be adequately represented at the Olym-
piad merely for lack of cash. Artist Salvana, who
one time held the record for the 577 miles between
Sydney and Melbourne, is going at his own expense,
and will do his best to represent the continent. But
there ought to be a team, such as Canada and the
United States are sending. Will some of these
wealthy men please send along a cheque, sudden
quick.
As far as the Sheffield Shield is con-
cerned, there is no doubt as to the superiority of
N.S.W. Of the 20 annual struggles for the ornament
the Ma State has won 12, and the balance have been
divided between the-other States in this wise: Vic-
toria has won six, and South Australia has got away
with two. On the form displayed ; this season there
isn’t the shadow of a reason why the Croweaters
shouldn’t be asked to give way to the Bananalanders.
Altogether South Australia’s name is Mud, in spite of
the fuss its representatives have been making in the
cricket councils. The poorness of the gate in Test
matches at Adelaide moved Warner, and Pawley to
ask the Board of Control that South Australia be ob-
literated from the list of Test match sites in future.
And if that isn’t Mud, then what is Mud?
The agreement which the Board of Con-
trol lias in hand awaiting the signatures of the gen-
tlemen wlio will go to "England as the Australian XI
is a real 'wattlesnoozer. ..Right through the 10 sub-
sections and 23 clauses it; maintains the doctrine of
the Board’s sovereignty, and the authority, absolute
and complete, of its vice-regent Crouch. If the
Players appoint _a manager, - his duties will be re-
stricted to paying washing bills, securing clhan beds
at the various pubs,' and being'‘general valet the
gentlemen Who wield the bat. All cricket business
will be fixed up bv the Board’s representative, who
will sit alone as' Australia's representative at tthe
meetings of the -Imperial Cricket. Council for the
management of international cricket. The agreement
will also debar any member of the'team acting as-
press representative. The Board’s representative will
have power to sack, suspend, or deport home any
member of the team who misbehaves or tries in any
way to repeat the scandalous treatment meted out to
McAlister during the last tour. He will also be in-
vested with the power of inflicting fines. The docu-
ment also intimates that hotel and travelling exes,
are the only liabilities that will be recognised by the
Board, and players who wish to indulge in fire-water,
smokes, ■ picture-expeditions with chamber-maids and
so forth, will part up out of their own pockets, and
not charge to the expenses of the tour. Altogether,
the agreement is a fine, robust document, and indi-
cates that Percy McElhone took off everything but
his singlet when he drafted it. When Percy gets
down to his singlet he is a mighty drafter before the
Lord.
The record-hunters overlooked one fact
in connection with the Inglorious Fourth. Rhodes ■
(179) and Hobbs (178) together made 24 more runs
off their own bats than the Australian Eleven did
.in two hits each. The two innings of the home team
only totalled 364, and of these 31 were sundries, and
not, therefore, to be credited to the batsmen. For
two men to make in one innings more than the op-
position in two, is a Test record that should stand
for some time.
* * * *
No batsman can be called “great” unless
he is ambidexterous. None of the crowd at present
on deck in Australia is sufficiently so to be able to
bat left or right, according to how the ball is break-
ing. Foster was playing as prettily as could be the
other Monday, until Hordern and Armstrong stuck
him up with their leg theory. Eventually he got
caught off Armstrong. The left-hander Woolley
meanwhile made light of Armstrong’s leg-theories,
and smote one of them all the way to Sheol for six.
Event Mead, who has never yet during the tour played
confidently, showed the advantage of being a left-
hander under the existing bowling conditions. A
batting artist who could change his leg side with im- -
punity would give new life to the game, and, more-
over, be the inspiration for both-handed bowling.
When the batsman, the field, and the audience are
kept equally in doubt as to which hand the next ball
is coming from, and the bowler is worried by casual
conversions of “leg” into “off,” and vice versa,
cricket will have something of the interesting char-
acter of a conjuring show.
“Adelaide”: If it is really “admitted”
(B. 15/2/’l2) that “the present English team was
greatly under-rated from the outset of the tour,” then
I can claim extra credit for my warning, given after
seeing it play once (B. 16/11/’U) : “It seems to
have been picked with a special eye to Australian
conditions. . .Its great virtue is apparently going to
be an ability to make 300 runs a day without taking
any great risk—and keep on doing it. Anybody who
has patriotically been proposing to lay odds on Aus-
tralia for the Tests is hereby earnestly advised to do
nothing rash.”
Some weighty scoring marked the resump-
tion of Melbourne-pennant cricket on Saturday. Carl-
ton, who were up against Richmond, had lost three
wickets for 86, when Billy Dick, who was tried
recently with the Murray State colts, came to the
rescue with a score of 147 not out. Carlton’s com-
pilation stands at nine for 317. In the P’ran-South
Melbourne discussion, a newcomer with the euphoni-
ous name of Cohen, made a very creditable 120 for
P’ran. Bell made 152 not out for the same team,
and its score at present is four for 445. A fine
monody could be penned anent the bowling of the
Southerners. At Victoria Park, where Collingwood
and East Melbourne collided, a half-hearted attempt
was made to accord Frank Laver an “ovation,” by
way of narking the Board of Control, but only a
small cluster of people felt called upon to make a
noise when he took the field, and they ovated less
than ever when he journeyed pavilionwards after
compiling six runs. East Melbourne made a total of
177. North Melbourne manufactured 240 against
Essendon, and the ’Dons replied with two for 71 ;
Melbourne contributed 138 to the Mclbourne-Fitzroy
discussion, ’Roy’s donation taking the form of five for
102.
* * * *
Diplomatic relations were re-established
between the Mclnstoush and McVea early last week,
and by the end of it peace had been restored by the
simple expedient of McVea agreeing to do what he
had previously declared he could not dream of doing.
But though all is peace between promoter and battler,
the air is full of rumor of battle in consequence.
McVea will face James Barry, from Chicago, on
March 9, at the- Sydney Stadium, and go up against
Samuel Langford for the second time in Australia on
Easter Monday. McVea and Barry met once before,
in Paris, about two years ago, and on that occasion
the dark man won on a foul in the 15th round.
Langford’s stock has slumped somewhat since his
victory over Barry, there being a general feeling that
had Samuel been the redoubtable warrior we all im-
agined him, he should have wiped the crude youth
from Chicago right off the globe in very short order.
Perhaps so, but that crude youth from Chicago hits
almighty hard, and Langford himself is more a slug-
ger than a boxer, although he is a better boxer than
Barry.
Detailed accounts from English sources of
the recent fight at New York between Kaufmann and
Palzer, in which the former was knocked out in the
fifth round, prove the newcomer to be a very formid-
able gentleman indeed. It seems Kaufmann was in
trouble from the beginning, and received the first
knock-down blow within five seconds of the opening
of the initial round. The blow with which he
dropped Palzer is described as being “terrific” and
as sending Palzer slithering right across the ring. It
w.as on the jaw, and everybody thought it was a
knock-out. But the new-comer, bounded to his feet
almost as soon as the. referee started to count, sprang
at Kaufmann, beat down his guard, and with a lofty
uppercut sent the Californian giant down for five
seconds: Palzer is described as being almost insen-
sible to punishment, and it is -said that blows which
lifted him off his feet apparently did not daze him .
'in the slightest. After Kaufmann’s first knock-down
wallop, he sprang up in full possession of all his
faculties, and with his vim unslackened. At the
sound of the gong he bounds from his seat, shoots
across the ring, and attacks almost before the other
man is out of his chair. AVhat would happen if he
got there - before the 'other fellow was really up is
too wonderful to. imagine. He is to be matched
against Carl Morris, to decide which of them is really
the White Hope. Morris is said to have improved
right out of sight, but if half the things said about
Palzer are true it would appear to be necessary for
Carl Morris to. be bom again, as they say in
religious circles. All the same, writer has a dark
suspicion that this Palzer is. more of a rusher than
a boxer ; and rushers all go the same road—the one
Squires went. # „
The latest news about Jack Johnson is
disquieting, the dusky warrior having been suedl m
New York for ids washing bill. When judgment
was given against him, he sent word to the creditor
that he would pay him when he got the winner s end
of the purse for the fight with Flynn m July. Next
dav he went out and bought a new motor-car, a
Frenchy thing, with trimmings in violet and sage
green, and was towing it home by a rope attached to
another car, when a somewhat elderly lady stepped
back to let his car go past, and then fell heels over
head across his tow-line. Before she could recover
the towed car ran over her, although Johnson had
stopped immediately he saw the woman in difficulties.
Fortunately for Johnson, the aged party was not
seriously injured, and was able to proceed home in a
horse-drawn vehicle, after vigorously declining John-
son’s offer of the use of his buzz-cart, then, when
he got home, he found a Customs officer waiting for
him with an amended and enlarged bill for duty on
two cars he had brought oyer from Britain. So, alto-
gether, he is having a fairly woolly time it.
When William Thompson Bendigo, the
once mighty English fighter, was buried at Notting-
ham, England, his friends engraved on his tomb-
stone :—•
“In life always brave, fighting like a lion ;
- In death like a lamb, tranquil in Zion.”
Curious how cocksure these fighting gentlemen always
are!
Hock Keys, of N.S.W., who has just an-
nounced his permanent retirement from the square
ring, is the most delicate and yet skilful boxer
Australia, if not the world, has ever seen.. He is the
ideal boxer as opposite to the fighter. His trouble is
that, although he can get all over any other boxer
or fighter in Australia, he has not the strength to
knock them out. He could always tap his man where,
when and how he liked. The fact that it was only
after he had tapped a man six times in the same
place the other fellow began to be aware of it is all
that has prevented Hock Keys being a wealthy world
champion. But his fighting was the poetry of action,
his hooks things of beauty to be remembered, his
straight lefts and rights motions of grace, his swings
pugilistic elegancies. Perhaps we shall never see his
like again. Although he has not realised a fortune, he
is making a comfortable living, being the lessee of
the Bathurst Public Baths, where he also runs a large
and rapidly-increasing boxing class.
At Sydney Stadium, on Saturday night,
Lester had the chance of his life, and with his usual
recklessness, cheerfully threw it away. He was up
against Johnny Thompson, miscalled “Cyclone,” as
he can’t ’clone for nuts. Also Thompson’s know-
ledge of boxing is about equal to that which an
every-day, garden-fed Berkshire hog has of his an-
cestral line, and Lester’s is little, if any, better.
Heaven blessed them both with hard nuts and tough
hides, and the result is they put up entertaining
scraps, mostly devoid of any pretensions to be called
boxing matches. Byt the sovereign public loves that
sort of thing, and the sovereign public must be grati-
fied. However, to come back to the Lester-’Thompson
fight. Referee Baker had warned the men that there
must be no in-fighting, and to make sure of avoiding
police Interference, it would be well if they allowed
the light to shine between them all the time. They
obeyed him to the letter, and Thompson, being more
of an in-fighter than his opponent, was the biggest
loser, and got the worst of the deal. For 18 rounds
Lester was well ahead on points. During the 19 th
Thompson tried his darndest to cyclone, and gave
Lester a harder time of it than usual; but when the
bell clanged dissonantly the latter was still ahead on
points. Then he fell. Burning to do a deed of der-
ring-do, he waded in during the. last round for a
knock-out, standing in close to “mix it.” As a mix-
ologist he is not in the same street as the Zephyr, and
the result was that most of the mixing was done by
the other fellow. Thompson served up a collection of
wild right swings he had been seeking all night to
deliver at the right address. Lester got them all,
and went down with a crash. He came up again at
eight, but he was groggy, baked and dead, and there
was no health in him. Thompson apologised for his
painful duty, swung another right to the same spot,
the jaw, and Lester was out of his misery. It was
about the worst exposition of how-not-to-do-it ever
seen at the Stadium. However Lester came to be
suspected of being a White, or any other brand of
“Hope,” is impossible to imagine. He doesn’t know
when to keep out of the wet.
* * * *
Racing at Caulfield last Saturday was the
first of “the autumn campaign,” as horse reporters
call it, which closes with Sydney Cup meeting.
Several of the unlawful-market favorites for the
approaching Newmarket Handicap and Australian
Cup were given a gallop, and early backers of Queen
o’ Scots for the six-furlong sprint at Flemington had
the doubtful satisfaction of seeing last year’s winner
earn a 101 b. penalty in the Oakleigh Plate. Backed
from seven to two down to seven to four, the
daughter of Wallace came at the right end of the 5J
furlongs, and beat Captain White —a comparative
outsider among the lot that led the field from the
start. Captain White, at 20 to one, ran second, and
Popinja3 r (a popular Newmarket tip) made no show
at 10 to one; otherwise the Oakleigh Plate “form”
was quite according to the betting. Last -year’s
winner of the Newmarket having captured the Caul-
field event so handsomely, it seems open to Desert
Rose, the Newmarket runner-up in 1911, to re-
assert herself by taking the valuable Futurity Stakes
next Saturday. The mare is said to be in great
.heart just now.
Scobie’s stable scored a couple of surprises conse-
cutively, with Bobbie Lewis on top each time. In
the Federal Stakes, for two-year-olds, Ernest Clarke’s
colt Wolowa romped away from a big field, after
being practically knocked out by the ring men.
Wolowa opened at seven to two, but receded to
eights and tens to one; wherefore hundreds of
punters were put off the good thing, and the multi-
tude watched his run-away victory with sore amaze.
For the Bond Cup, which came next on the card,
there appeared to be no money to speak of for
Wolowa’s stable companion, Eye Glass. All the same,
the English-bred horse ran a great race, and won
easily. His price on the tote might have been 40 to
one, and even the books offered 12’s and- 15’s.
The nine furlongs St. George’s Stakes, w<srth£soo
to the winner, provided the ra.ee of the day. Once
again Solomon Green and. his devoted adherents
backed Comedy King to beat Trafalgar at w.f.a,, and,
although trainer Hickenbotham fancied the old
horse, the stable money didn’t bring it to a shorter
price than six to one at the start. W. 11. Smith had
the mount on Trafalgar, and rushed him into the
lead half a mile from home. A year ago the challenge
of Comedy King couldn’t be stalled off; the black
could beat the chestnut for speed, anyway. Now the
stoutest horse in Australia is also one of the speediest
over any distance; between eight and 12 furlongs,
consequently the challenge of Sol Green’s diminished
champion merely encouraged his rival to further
effort. In the end the six to four favorite was beaten
a length and a half, and. the mob—Moses and all —
cheered the winner as never a winner at Caulfield
was cheered before. One of the loudest individual
enthusiasts was Walter Hickenbotham in person. The
veteran’s joy had the true ring of sporting feeling in
it, and was good to hear.
’ * » * *
Streets in the vicinity of Melbourne Ex-
hibition which, as a rule, on the Sawbath eve
are haunted mostly by ladies of dead-easy virtue
and their followers, were last Sunday invaded ; by
the ribald multitude before whom Flossie fled, with
her faded ostrich feathers fluttering indignantly . in
the breeze. The opening of the Six Days’ cycling
orgy was on view at the Exhibition Oval. From 9
p.m till midnight sacred melody was perpetrated by
a very brass band. A full report of this part of the
show will be found on our Religious Page. After
12 o’clock the arena gates were thrown open to about
8000 misguided persons at 6d. per head. They
seemed well satisfied; except about eight pressmen
who entered dejectedly on the nod. At about
12.30 a stranger, wearing a frock coat and an enig-
matical hat, which made him look like the Sheriff in
a Wild West bellowdrama, announced that “Dare-
devil” Kilpatrick, the one-legged cyclist, would per-
form the feat which had many times flabbergasted
the world, the flesh and the Beelzebub. The “Dare-
devil,” after going through some preliminary rites,
then rode down 100 steps at an incline of over 45
degrees. The manner in which the mono-legged marvel
hopped upstairs was rather more impressive than
the way in which he slithered down. The next
sensation, the “Globe of Death,” was rather more
interesting, if less spectacular. A male and female
rode bikes inside a steel globe, 30ft. in diameter,
and, later, the male half of the partnership rode a
motor-bike inside the cage at astonishing angles and,
it is stated, a speed of 00 miles an hour. About
1 a.m. the competitors for the Six Days’ race were
lined up, and a gentleman with a sad, sad beard
addressed some utterly superfluous remarks to them,
warning them that “everythink has to be fair an’
square.” After some more humorously-solemn pre-
liminaries the riders started off, encouraged by the
plaudits of the multitude. A dozen teams were
billed to start, but Mr. Hughes and Mr. Cooper, of
the Ma State, scratched themselves for the dreary
job. The riders streaked round and round the
brilliantly-lighted oval, and the crowd showed no
inclination to go home. The first 10 miles were
covered in 26 minutes, and this paper then decided
that the time was ripe to invite itself to have a
drink and get to bed.
A young man named Planes has just put
up a new cycling record in Europe. On a seven-year-
old Mead machine he covered 33,200 miles inside 12
months, and wound up looking like “a leisurely
tourist in perfect health, and not the least drawn or
weary.”
There is a growing and ghastly suspicion
that the tour of the Kangaroos in Britain has been a
financial frost. Of the 36 matches played, the
Kangs, won 29, drew two, and lost five. Which was
a mighty good record. But, according to advice,
there was “no financial gain in the tour,” and that
being literally translated, means that, the League will
have to put its hand into its pocket and rake out the
balance to square the accounts of the team. This
experience does not gladden the hearts of the Aus-
tralian XI to be.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union will start the coming
season much lighter in heart and heavier in pocket
than it ended the last, as the N.S.W. Trotting Club
has finally decided to purchase the Epping ground
for a course. This will relieve the Rugby Union of
its white elephant, and replenish its depleted trea-
sury. But, on the other hand, it will leave it abso- .
lutely without a ground of its own, and the way the
bloated Rugby League is roosting on the doorstep of
every Sydney suburban council which has grounds to
let is ominous. If the grim, capacious paw of Secre-
tary Larkin can only close on Sydney Cricket Ground,
as it is known to be itching to do, the Union will
be in Queer-street for a decent space whereon to play
its star and exhibition games, and may be reduced to
kicking a ball round on the tram-line.
* * * *
Victoria has unearthed a threatening cham-
pion swimmer in Edie Crawford, of Brighton, who,
though only 13 years of age, has already beaten the
State’s best woman swimmer, Lily Beaurepaire. The
small water-sprite was chosen to represent her State
in the 100yds. inter-State championship at Sydney,
but her parents naturally thought her rather young
to start the strenuous career, so she will stay at
home a while and grow.
* * * *
The winning of the Maoriland sculling
championship by Aucklander C. Stone, at Wellington
(M.L.) recently, was that hefty rower’s fourth
offence. A year ago there was much talk of matching
him against Richard Arnst. But Richard was in
great fettle just at that. time, and prudence pre-
vailed.
* * * *
Young George Gray, the Australian “boy
billiardist,” struck trouble last week. First, Roberts
beat him in a match in the courts, for £l5OO, and then
Stevenson downed him at billiards, winning by 1497
points in 18,000 up. Gray made only 16,503. Still,
after his remarkable run, he can survive a defeat or
two. Possibly it might be good for his head ; too
much success has spoilt emperors before now. And
a billiardist is not much better than an emperor.
Consider the progress of champion
swimmer “Billy” Longworth. In four weeks he has
annexed 12 premierships, over distances ranging from
100yds. to one mile. And in spite of all this time in
the water, he is simply burning to gather in all the
championships at the Olympic Games. May Joss
grant that he will is the fervent prayer ofOevery
Australian ; but it is too much to hope for. It is one
thing to overthrow the best in Australia, and quite
another to stamp the world flat. Still, here’s to
him !
At the end of last season it looked as
though Australia would this year be over-run by a
hungry army of South African ’bailers, all on the
make. Somehow or other the idea had got abroad
that Australia is the Promised Land as 'far as sport-
ing boodle is concerned,; and the idea wants to be
kicked hard, right on the head. The N.S.W. Rugby
Union invited S’Africa to send along a team of kick-
ers, but the S’African Union hit the idea with a club,
on the ground that there was no money in it on an
amateur basis. But how did the same South Africans
come at the League, which is supposed to be a bood-
ling body. Secretary Larkin had to take off his coat
and get really rude to convince the Springboks that
they were not required in the land of the Kangaroo.
And even then they argued the case with him by
cable. But,, nevertheless, no Springboks will be seen
in Australia, during the , coming football season.
LUMBAGO.
RELIEF OBTAINED FROM DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
AFTER PHYSICIAN HAD
FAILED.
Mr. P. H. Quinn, of 29 Bay Street, Glebe,
writes: —“My occupation taking me out in
the wet, I contracted a cold some time ago,
and it settled in the system, causing me to
suffer severely from lumbago, I was under
a doctor, who said I was suffering from
rheumatics round the heart. I, however,
came to the conclusion that he was not
correct, so thought 1 would doctor myself,
and started on Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. At times I suffered such pain that if
I sat down I could not straighten myself
up, except by degrees; but I was
pleasantly surprised to find Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills were doing wonders. J
started on two at a time, and then after-
wards reduced the dose to one. I do not
suffer at all now, and attribute my recovery
to their use. I use about a bottle a month
to keep me in good health, and cannot speak
too highly of them. After a full meal I take
one, which assists the liver in its action,
aiding digestion. You may use this if you
wish.”


MARSHALL
I
SHOE
In
HALF
SIZES
AND
THREE
FITTINGS
ertrytuyuyu
STYLE
COUNTS
for a good deal ;
Workmanship figures
largely ; but Fitting
Qualities are of the
utmost importance—
the direct reason of the
“Marshall” Shoes
being predominant.
BOGO ”
TOE.
Patent Colt
Blucher Oxford
SHOES.
MARSHALL SHOE
RICHMOND, VIC.
CO.
LTD.
OF ALL GOOD DEALERS.
Makei
your
own
cigarcttej
I t\T%
twice ]
os goocfi
B^LST
AC
CIGARETTE
PAPER
ar\d
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros Li? 2 55? George Si Sydney
//
High
Grade
PIANOS
iJ.G.IRMLER
LEIPZIG
Emil Henning
' STUTTGART
GebrKolski
BERLIN
Carl Hess
I DRESDEN
CATALOCPES ON APPXi CATION*
J~Hess&C9
199 CLARENCES?
SYDNEY N SW.
andat BRISBANE.
Shell
Spirit
-for-
PUPITY
Pace
& Power.
for MoreF*
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success . J
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners
that win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will
supply the art. It considers the whole subject from
the time you meet until you two are one. Valuable
chapters about dress, personal appearance and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of
curious love letters & FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits
in prose and poetry that you can find daily use for.
2/6 posted will bring the book, and incidentally, hap-
EV£ s^ lt ki he on 3 y° u love ' ANGLO-AMERICAN
PUB. CO., Waterloo Ch’mb’s, Geo-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
Between
the
Dances.
ertrytuyuyu
I G
A
R
T
T
S.
E
All that makes for quality
in cigarettes is found at its
highest only in“ WINFRED”
10 for 6?
Sole Manufacturers' \
ARDATH TOBACCO COMPANY, LONDON.
00 (double*?)
Old Orkney Whisky.
? SHOES FOR GENTLEMEN!!
i Th l, r - e is that ( 3 uiet ’ impressive dignity about many
of the Rigney Shoes that make them so popular- with
well-dressed men.
If you live in the country, remember-that we can
fit you satisfactorily by mail.
The Shoe illustrated here is a very fine patent
walking or dress Boot, the latest style.
Price 27/6 and 30/
Postage 9d.
Extra.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., Sydney,
l79a Pitt St., Sydney.
I
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Lknd Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars ,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane,
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
ertrytuyuyu
A SURE CURE
FOR PILES!
•- ■> .>/• a..
There’s a never-ending chain of conclusive evidence to prove
the success of Murphy’s Pile Pills. We have many'testimonials
on our files which tell of their effectiveness. Copies of many
of these letters are supplied with each box of Pills. .
Murphy’s Pile Pills cure in all cases. They.are harmless
because non-aperient and free from obnoxious drugs. Superior
to ointments. . . , -
You ought to get a box of Murphy’s Pile Pills to-day.
They are sold everywhere by chemists and storekeepers, or may
be ordered direct. Price, 3/- per box, post free. Sole Pro-
prietors : ANDREW MDRPIIY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent
Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
©
KELVIN
"GENERATING SET
Cinematographers!
Big Showmen!
You should get acquainted with the
KELVIN ELECTRICITY
GENERATING SET.
sf
It is absolutely the finest thing of its kind extant..
Reliable simple easy to start —works perfectly—fool
proof and trouble proof.
The complete set mounted on a truck as shown.
Call
Now on view in our Showroom,
and see it. Booklet Post
Free.
JERD AN’S,
393 George Street
“ Leading
Cinematograph Specialists.’
*
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
SYDNEY.


SEND
TO-DAY
for a copy.
A. SAUNDERS’
MAGNIFICENT SILVERPLATE CATALOG
SEND
TO=DAY
for a copy.
WAITER, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, Hand-
engraved. fancv edge, embossed. 10m, oU/,
I4in. 50/.
is unequalled in Australasia. There are thousands and thousands of
Wedding Gift Designs, away from the ordinary, handsome, practical, and
priced at the most pleasing prices. SEND TO-DAY FOR A COPY,
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE,
plated Nickel Silver, Satin
Silver-
Glass.
IT’S FPEF
SH
20/-
OREAM JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved,
“Fern” Dpsisrn.
7/6.
TWO-BRANCH SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-plated, Burnished,
Gilt-lined.
'j. - t ••• ' _ tti trtl ~ ~ l r ' il»ii^i
I "f
y
inuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiillllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllWilWJ
12/6.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated, Richly Embossed Handles.
PRESERVING DISH, Pure Sil-
ver-plated, Nickel Silver, Fluted
Venetian Glass.
FOUR-O’CLOCK FORKS, SlL-
ver-plated. Embossed Handles.
CAKE BASKET. Pure Silver-plated, Cherry Design,
Embossed Satin Finish. Burnished die.
SSmo
nr Ii
r \\
do
«gjgjjX3’r \' r (Ugls£
fillU
sd
12/6.
BREAKFASI CRUET, Pure
Silver-plated, Crystal Glass
Bottles.
12/6.
FERN POT. Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed and Fluted.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand-engraved;, Butterfly
Design.
ORDER BY MAIL.
WE PLEASE
EVERYONE.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand-engraved'.
ROSE BOWL, Hand-embossed, Gilt-lined,
Silver-plated, Mounted on Ebo«ny Plinth.
OUR JEWELLERY
CATALOGUE
IS A BOOK
WORTH HAVING.
BEDROOM CLOCK, Solid
Silver-mounted, Fancy Dial,
Accurate, Reliable.
egg frame and
Silver-plated Nickel
SPOONS,
Silver.
20/-
SALAIj> BOWL and SERVERS, Fancy Floral China,
with Silver-plated Nickel Silver Mounts.
10/6.
SUGAR AND CREAM STAND, Silver-
plated Frame, Floral' China.
2/-
JAM
SPOON,
Silver-
plated
Nickel
Silver,
Hand-
engraved.
18/6.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated, Richly Engraved,
Butterfly design.
13/6.
DINNER CRUET, Silver-plated,
Crystal Glass Bottles.
HOT-WATER KETTLE AND STAND, Pure
Silver-plated, Richly Embossed, Rustic Stand.
PICKLE JAR, Pure Sil-
ver-plated' Nickel Silver,
Finest English Cut Glass.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL GOODS
EXCEPT CLOCKS.
ertrytuyuyu
SEND TO-DAY FOR
OUR SILVER PLATE
CATALOGUE.
12/6.
FRUIT DISH, Pure Silver-Plated Stand, Fancy Floral
China Dish.
9/6
BISCUIT BARREL,
Silver-Plated Mounts
Fancy Floral China.
25/-
Four-Branch FLOWER
STAND,
Silver-Plated Frame,
Golden Tinted Glass Tubes
JEWELLER,*
fk MAKER A
ertrytuyuyu
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807. 809.811.815.815.817- GEORGE ST. ( Opposite Railway Srarionl SYDNEY, N.S,W._
SILVERSMITH
C O#SULT/# c J
CopiicwhJ


- .
< ' :
m
“The Experience Is in the Tank.”
Kodak at the Start
Means Daylight to
the Finish !
EV'EIil Kodak Camera sold sells another, because every Kodak user is a
Kodak enthusiast, and does not fail to recommend, his favorite to his
friends. ; 'j
Kodak popularity hinges on Kodak simplicity, certainty and convenience.
You do not need a dark-room, and you do not need instruction or experience.
Get your camera this morning, and you’ll be making good pictures this after-
noon—that’s the charm of Kodakery.
Every step in the production of Kodak pictures is easily understood be-
cause you work in daylight all the way—you see what you’re doing, and you
know why you’re doing it.
Picture your holiday trips, week-end jaunts, favorite sport, home sur-
roundings, and friends with a Kodak camera. The prints will grow in value
and sentiment as the years roll by.
Eastman Kodak Cameras from 26/=. Brownie Cameras—they
work like Kodaks —from 5/= to 50/=. Catalogue free.
Kodak Cameras and Supplies are sold by all progressive dealers
throughout Australasia.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse
Prop. Ltd.
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMONT CO., LTD.,
Cinematograph Experts),
379 George St., Sydney.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba.
“ The B,ock >” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrif,
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
TiuirstoS’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Od posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all tiik Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr, Carver’s Tricks'
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Od. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
&
m
111
CYCLOPEDIA
RMWtACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr, E. B. FOOTK.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS P REE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concernin°' mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
ful lest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
? dlt ‘ on of this Sreat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEYEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I«“BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH
-ars
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other, Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, ls_2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Df,camer.on of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
othirs, all at 2s 6d eaoh posted. Lee’s Priceless
Kecipks, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Wo Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it,
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. i*p- Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr, Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide, to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 3CO latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted'.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness anG
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing" Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s, Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secri ts of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Clement-Bayard
Motor Cars.
The CLEMENT - BAYARD
CAR is the Ideal Car for ihe t
Man on the Land.
Lighter, yet stronger than
others.
ABSOLUTELY SIMPLE. f
Conspicuously showing the
best wear-resisting materials.
PRE-EMINENTLY RELIABLE.
7 H.P. 2 CYLINDER CAR
•Special High Clearance for Australian Conditions and Roads. Absolutely Automalic ; nothing to do but Steer.
7 H.P- 1 2 Cylinder, Single-Seated Body, £225. 10-15 H.P., 4 Cylinder, Single-Seated, T. rpedo Body, £365.
in io .r i> , r, ~ H.P., 4 Cylinder, Touring Body, with high front doors, £4OO.
12-18 H.P., 4 Cylinder, Touring Body, £475. 15 H.P., 6 Cylinder, Touring Body, £575.
ALL IN STOCK.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
OARAGE—6 & 8 UNDERWOOD STREET, off 37 Pitt Street.
ertrytuyuyu
Is the Sentinel
of Your Home.
? “HYCOL” guards it from disease.
Be sure therefore to keep it ‘on duty ’ always.
18 TIMES STRONGER THAN CARBOLIC 7
18 T]
N.S.W. Agents:
POTTS & C 0.,.
163 George St.,
Sydney.
and it is non~poisonous.
THE M9ST P2WERFUL
DISINFECTANT-


<dwo Children
made well by
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Their mother, Mrs. Delaney,
writes (9th June, ’10) from
[da Villa, Meeks Road, Mar-
rickville, Sydney, N.S.W.,
:hat:
‘lda, aged 5, suffered continuously with
ertrytuyuyu
sore throat, and had great
difficulty in breathing, which
made her very irritable.
Enid, aged 2, had a severe
cough, ivhich ivas very dis-
tressing at night, and pre-
vented her from sleeping,
and she could eai scarcely
anything. I tried Scott’s
Emulsion, and in a remark-
ably short time both were
:ompletely cured. They are now quite
strong and well.”
The world-wide reputation
of Scott’s Emulsion as a
childrens remedy gives you
a CERTAINTY which no
other emulsion can provide.
No other emulsion is made
of the same pure and force-
ful ingredients, by the
unique Scott process of
manufacture. It is impossible
to exaggerate the importance
of this, where delicate, sensi-.
tive children are concerned.
If you simply ask for “emul-
sion,” you run a grave risk
of getting an emulsion which
is not Scott’s, and may im-
peril your child’s health. Ask
for SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
DR. SCHEUBLE,
the discoverer of the
SAMOL
Treatment of Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
Eczema, etc.', has received the highest recognition it
is possible for a Medical Man to get, viz., the first
award of the Vienna Chamber of Science.
Samol is a Scientific Preparation, endorsed and
used by some of the most famous Doctors of the day.
■ ( Samol is prepared in tubes, price 1/6, 3/9 and 6/-,
and can be ordered through any Chemist, or post free
direct from Wholesale Representative, H. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Brisbane; or
branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney ; 9 to 15 Stock Exchange Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland.
Dr. Scheuble’s remedy is also prepared in tablet
form for internal use by those preferring this method
to outward application. Price, 3/6 post free. [2
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat,
phested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
ertrytuyuyu
LONDON AGENCY,
44 Castlereag'h Street, SYDNEY.
CORSET
ertrytuyuyu
h nnHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
ertrytuyuyu
Carter's
■ITTLE-
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
Is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired —Out of
Sorts —Have No Appetite.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
•will put you right in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS
MACHINES
Produce an Absolutely
Perfect Light. - *!
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels and Billiard Saloons.
The following are some of the users: —■
NEW SOUTH WALES RAIL-
WAYS AND PUBLIC
WORKS DEPARTMENTS.
MR. L. A. DANGAR, N.S.W.
MR. D. COPLAND, N S W.
MR. J. LONERACAN, N.S.W.
MR. DAVID F. GIBB, N.S.W.
Messrs. ALFRED SHAW,
LTD., Q’LAND.
NESTLE & ANCLO-SWISS
C.M. CO. FACTORY, Q.
Messrs. MCDONALD BROS.,
Q’LAND,
MR. A. N. MACKAY, Q’LAND.
VICTORIAN RAILWAY DE-
PARTMENTS.
SIR JOHN MADDEN, VIC.
m
iSKSi
.
i m
m
COMMONWEALTH HOME
AFFA RS DEPARTMENT,
VIC.
SIR RUPERT CLARKE, VIC.
MR. H. ALAN CURRIE, VIC.
MR. H. W. CRIMWADE, VIC.
MR. CORDON CHIRNSIDE,
VIC.
MR. ERNEST AUSTIN, VIC.
MAJOR C. CAMPBELL, VIC.
Messrs. CHAS. ATKINS &
CO., S.A.
MR. M. S. HAWKER, S.A.
MR. McKENZIE GRANT,
Vi/. A.
MR. J. E. THOMPSON, W.A.
Messrs. STANFORD &
JOHNSON, W.A
Messrs, HERLEY BROS,
W.A.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with
b>Gst results
No OFFENSIVE ODOR. NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Cost —one-quarter that of acetylene, with one-tenth the trouble.
CAN BE LSED WITH UPRIGHT OR INVERTED BURNERS.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE
simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
For Further Particulars and Catalogues apply to DISTRIBUTING AGENTS—
SYDNEY : Hannams, Ltd.
MELBOURNE: Philips (St. Piße.
ADELAIDE : Chas. AtKins (St. Co. Ltd.
PERTH : Alcock (Si Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE : E. Rich (St. Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON : W. Reid (St. Co., Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at ( d.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. ry continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.'s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take ail the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
ertrytuyuyu
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal ofler. lie the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
BOND ST., SYDNEY,
ABERDEEN
HORSE AND CATTLE
RUGS.
If you have not been in the habit of
rugging your stock, resolve to do so this
winter —rugging means better results
from your milking herd —and better work
from your horses. But get the ABER-
DEEN brand—it’s thoroughly well made,
will, with care, give long, wear, and is
made on lines that conform to the body
of the animal, the patent fastenings keep
the rug in place.
'
as***
If your storekeeper does not stock ABERDEEN goods, write us direct.
SMITH, COPELAND <a CO., LTD
204-6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS
VICTORIA: J. Ba.rtra.rn & Son, King Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND: H. I. H. Ross, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. Whiting, Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA: Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, HOBART.
•»
ba^.;
W
*■
©
P"
at
231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
mbbbk co- uu
; AMD ALL STATES
Irfr*
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
TO MIS EXCELLENCY
THE GOVERttOR-GEnERAI
VICE-REGAL
ertrytuyuyu
HAIRDRESSERS
ertrytuyuyu
The Misses Isaacs,
161 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Transformations from £3/3/- Puffs, 5/6 set.
Fringes from 5/6.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Tails from 5/6.
’Phone 2138 Central.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND eacli month. Price Sixpence.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in j and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
M.J.D.: You don’t throw any new light on
the banks’ rule prohibiting the marriage of clerks
until they can show an income of £2OO a year. It’s
a rule that ought to be abolished; but, if it dis-
courages the rush of young Australians to clerical
jobs, it has one compensating feature, anyway....
J.T.0.: Fairly well written, but that track has been
used so often that there isn’t a blade of grass left on
it.... Bill Backstay: What a gale of words....
Cam: Good idea unskilfully worked out. . . .S.E.P.:
The last verse will suffice: —
Male reader of this rhyme, I
Mean that you’re the one,
Who should not cease to be joy fill’d
That your Mother bore a son.
It is sufficient to make any mother with an ear for
metre wish that you had died at birth. .. .Dinob:
A fragment:—
What if he lives in mansion fine!
Rich dinners gives, cigars and wine!
A motor-car, of course, and goff;
His private bar: Should we then scoff ?
Do you take this paper for a vaudeville turn, or a
musical comedy show, or what?....Tom God: Per-
severe, and you may yet be appointed Chief Dog-
gerelist to the royai family.... Meyler: A pointless
yarn, redeemed somewhat by a trace of what the
book-reviewers call “atmosphere.” The basket has
absorbed worse stuff in its time... . Karoola: “Is it
possible?” No Something that looks like
“Pyke”: Something that looks like r0t.... The
Savage: A mere bald narrative.... Leo : Blank verse_;
also verse. .. .H.R.McD.: “The Burglar” is
given the benefit of the First Offenders’ Act. . . .Jean
L.: It’s not poetry. It’s merely battered language,
cut up into lengths, with a riotous attempt to
rhyme “nice” and “strike,” “make” and “straight”
at the end of them. . . .E.F.C.: You’ve got a faculty
for ingenious rhyming. Now, get hold of sorhe-
thing worth the rhyme...B. Wailis: Dreadful dog-
gerel. .. Coongol a: “Kindly let me know if there is
a decided answer as to the birth of the kangaroo.”
We should say decidedly that the kangaroo is born ;
still, as we can’t .find any notice of the interesting
event in the S. M. Herald, there was probably some-
thing not quite right about the occurrence. .. .A.C.:
No earthly use for child’s stories, thanks. .. .A.M.R.:
No, the jingle didn’t hit us. But it made a very
good shot for the basket. .. .Jack of Hearts: Not a
court card in the pack. Inexperience and a defective
ear for metre seem to be your main handicaps as a
verse-writer. .. .W.R.M.: Send along a piece of your
Riverina bull-oak to hurl at the next man who tries
to drag back the hardwood argument by the* hind
branch....C. A. Court: The Unification and Recon-
struction idea has been fully explained so often in
The Bulletin that we dunno what further explana-
tion we can give. .. . J.M.E.: Look coldly on the
statement that “the City Calls with Eyes of Fire.”
Why didn't it cry out with its feet?. . . .K.A.J.: The
girl with “moss-grown teeth” is shuddery. Always
make your heroine look after her teeth, even though
her hair and skirts may be untidy and her stockings
disordered. And don’t make an Australian heroine
talk with a madly disordered “h.”. .. .F.G.M.: A
fragment from your love story: “It was in vain that
I brought my great guns to bear, ranging from Anax-
imander to Vogt, Buchner and Newton. You an-
swered my Holbach with a line from Shelley, my
Kepler, Laplace, Lubbock and Darwin with. a dozen
noble lines from Shakspeare; my Demosthenes with
Plato and Aristotle; and my Heckel with a broad-
side from , ‘ln Memoriam,’ until, in desperation, I
urged the existence of the unnucleated cell in the
chromocea of the alg® on the rocks before us as the
mysterious link between the organic and the inor-
ganic worlds.” Have you really met human beings
who made love on the above lines, or are your char-
acters mere vain imaginings ?. . Baron Bold: Detective
yarns have to be bright and snappy affairs to gain
entrance here: Yours, Baron, is duller and stodgier
than a Crown Prosecutor’s “opening” in a bush
sheep-stealing case Fritzi: Tears, idle tears, and
the rhyming of your metrical wail or moan is simply
rotten. “Gleam” and “scene,” “strive” and “leave,”
etc., might have passed in the first faint dawn of
English poesy, but they are right “off” these sophis-
ticated days. .
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
A.M.N.: Immature sketches K.E.: Small de-
mand for toothbrush jokes 8.F.: You have
achieved a unanimous rejection. James M.: Very
stilted and artificial and wallpapery. . . .M. Hurst:
Do you mean that the girl wanted to look like the
first girl, but only contrived to look like the second
girl; or that one girl envied the other, and if so,
which and why ; or that each of them envied, or pos-
sibly hated, or maybe admired the other; or were
they just two accidental girls, or what? Anyhow,
the picture is no' g00d.... May W.: Sorry, but they
are no use to us Bloxham: Drawing no good and
gag is a steal. Don’t send any more pictures....
Bertie R.: Too crude, though there are gleams of
mirth in it.
That new dramatic development, the bed- j
room play, usually gives the she-star the j
“fat” in the form of a flimsy nightie, bare j
feet, a fascinating kim. and so on. In
“Passers-by,” the he-constellation gets his
chance to allure in an undress uniform.
Beatty, as a London Adonis, gives his room
to his fog-bound Girl, and sleeps on the
stage —which is, incidentally, his sitting-
room. The sleeping suit is a carefully-
thought-out “creation” in three shades of
blue, and on to his dainty feet in the yawn-
ing morning he puts check blanket slippers,
size nine. My! it does drag at the strings
of the feminine heart.
The aigrette has become such a nuisance
at Govent Garden, Hammerstein’s new Opera
House, and other places that even a mild
critic in the London Referee has uttered an
admonitory bark : —•
Another matter which concerns audiences is the
increase in the numbers of ladies who apparently
are convinced that their charms largely depend upon
the size of an aigrette in the hair. This refers
as much to Co'vent Garden as to the London Opera
House. In effect, I And every inch of aigrette is
equal to 10 feet of the proscenium, and, at “Rigo-
letto” the other night, Gilda seemed to me to be
spending a considerable part of her life among
bulrushes.
The father of Robert Whyte, junior, who
plays the dull-eyed tramp in “Passers-By,”
is a wealthy Englishman, the sort that reads
the Times with his breakfast, and owns a
family butler and a cellar, and similar ac-
cessories. When Robert abandoned the
somewhat stagnant environment of the
Home for the more passionate atmosphere of
the Boards, his progenitor—so the legend
goes —requested him never again to cast his
shadow on the priceless doormat of the ances-
tral mansion. Murmuring “Righto!” or
words to that effect, the young man immedi-
ately fared forth and began his career. The
strained relations lasted until a slow-think-
ing British public arose and called
young Robert a character-actor of
the brightest dye. Then did his intol-
ant old man suddenly remember that
he had been harsh with the boy. So
Robert was given a free pass over
the Turkey tuftings, and all was as
though the ancient unpleasantness had never
been.


ertrytuyuyu
Letters from Bibendum to a
Self-made Motorist.
ii.
Bi, Fulham Road, London, S.W.
December 27th, 191 r.
My Dear Miles, —A month after Jason Peters,
at the age of 71, acting on foolish fancy, formed
himself into an Anti-Beer-Drinking- League, he
died. His father is 98, and is still able to turn
somersaults after dinner, on Christmas Day, the
result being that he keeps the younger grand-
children from becoming coma-
tose after the rigours of the
feast. His doctor says the
reason is that he drinks his
quart of beer every morning
before breakfast; same as he
has done for eighty years.
But that 29,200 quarts
doesn’t represent his total
absorption for the period;
not by a hogshead. So that
it has always seemed to me
that if son Jason hadn’t had
a conscientious breakdown,
3S&
«)
Jason Peters.
and had not stopped short at 25,000 odd quarts,
he would have been alive to-day.
In mentioning this, I merely wish to demonstrate
that you can’t always manage to hold out long
enough to convince the
old man that he was
the cockle - nosed old
dough-head and that you
are the real brass-bound
compendium of correct
information. It is just
my way of impressing
you with the fact that
the instruction of the re-
presentative of a former
generation in the science
of extracting nutriment
from the fruit of the
domestic fowl is not the
•''A.
’ 4
I 11, I
II I i
v, e
W
“ lie died**
vocation of a scion; or words to that effect.
Why I wish this demonstration is because your
diagnosis on the cover you have sent me doesn’t
squeeze a drop of juice ;
while the cover itself fairly
shouts its confirmation of
the opinion I passed in
reply to your wail on the
subject. To begin with,
practically the whole length
of one bead shows a dirty
red - yellow stain. Well,
suppose you chanced upon
the Junior Pride of the
1 . . Still able to turn
somersaults .
house, with a poultice of raspberry jam pursuing a
circuitous course from his nose to his chin, just as
he was separating himself from the pantry, surely
you would not write the Y.M.C.A. asking what
conclusion you could draw, before proceeding to
gather into one spot most of the warmth in the
Junior Pride’s person?
Well, it’s just the same with this cover ; and I’m
open to bet you anything up to four figures that
the rim it came off is not only rusty, but has been
rusting so long that it resembles that famous axe
of the “ gentle executioner ” whose name was
Gilbert Clay. For, if you remember:
“ he chopped it with a bill,
And poured sulphuric acid on the edge of it, until
This terrible Avenger of the Majesty of Law
Was far less like a hatchet than a dissipated saw.”
If you have ever worn a well-starched, badly-
frayed collar, you’ll appreciate a bit of what that
cover has been getting handed out to it. But only
l
a bit, because you only
wore that collar one, or, if
the week’s washing was still
in liquidation, two, days.
Whereas the cover has been
suffering from that rough,
rusty rim for months, and
that’s why the beads are
ruined and the canvas
rotten.
The condition of that
rim, too, is responsible for
the fact that a lot of water
has found its way inside.
So before you fit the new
cover I’m sending you to-
id]
I •jiCllll
li '/i )tct 2*
l ll(lfW4*ix4
“ The Junior Pride.'
day, you have got to get busy on that rim with
emery paper. Remove every particle of rust. Not
a lick-and-a-promise touch, here and there, but a
total-annihilation stroke all over. Then varnish ;
and make it two coats inside; one outside. It’s
cheaper to be your own R.A. (which stands for Rim
Artist in this connection): but if in doubt, write to
the Royal Academy. If the rim is so roughened
as to be jagged—you can easily test it by placing
the fingers in the rim clinches and revolving the
wheel—use a file before you emery.
That’s all you want to know on this point for
the present; but I’m writing you further about what
you are pleased to refer to as “That rotten cover.”
Terseness is one of your gifts. (26)
Your sincere friend,
BIBENDUM.
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained from all the leading Garages.
THE LOHE HAND
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
i
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
CON FIPCNTIAL Letters
Ren>aii> Private
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
used.
>i 5 tf 200
Patent ZanETIC
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write your letter in ink, and the copy is made
as you write. Letter shows no sign of copying. The
letter is posted and the book locked up. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road,
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Please send Money-Orders, not P.O.’s.
8525
|“PYROID” FOR GREY HAIR
DR. GRIFFITHS “PYROID,” latest London Com-
I pound of Walnut Stain and English Oak Nuts, one
solution. Three separate shades—Dark, Mid-Brown
and Light Brown. Captured Australian market;
avoid obsolete preparations. Stocked by every Whole-
sale Druggist in Australia. Retail from all Chemists
and Stores. Also, ARIBIS CELEBRATED EGYP-
TIAN HENNA FOR GREY HAlR—sold everywhere.
HIMRODS
R
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF. '
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the bene-
fits he received from HIMROO’S
ASTHMA POWDER, and every
post brings similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary
Cough.
. Sold in Tins by all
Chemists and Stores through-
out Australasia.
Si
L--—; I
m
X
seal
remedy\J
, ai i *“
Big G
Berated Goldenseal
Compound
. A safe and reliable remedy!
.'for treating diseases of ALL
mucous membranes, such a 3
discharges from thenose,throat
stomach and urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself ?
with each bottle |
\or mailed on request.
Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio - SJs
u.s.a. /y\
A New Firm of Stock and Station Agents.
A NOTABLE VENTURE.
GORDON and COLDHAM
Castlereagh Chambers, 10 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
MESSRS. GORDON & COLDHAM are prepared to act as Financial Agents in all departments, and make valuations of Station
r j K,p y I , , for Probate 3nd other purposes. Properties managed and supervised during the absence of proprietors.
Mock disposed of to the best advantage.
Mr. Gordon was for J 5 years manager of Edgeroi, and for 9 years Pastoral Superintendent of the Australian Joint Stock Bank.
He was for three years Director and Manager of the Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co. He is now Managing Director of
the Inverleigh Co., Ltd., North Queensland; also of the Belalie Pastoral Co., Ltd.
Mr. Coldham was for many years Managing Partner of Wolfang Station, owner of Dunraven, and is at present part owner of
the famous Lammermoor Station in Queensland. He is also a director of the Inverleigh Co., Ltd., of North Queensland. The
records of the partners have been known to the public for many years, and their experience is a guarantee of ’their business
ability. WILLIAM ALEXANDER GORDON; HENRY ALBERT COLDHAM.


Very Itchy, Could Get No Rest, Night
or Day, Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. At Once Relieved of
Pain. Within a Fortnight, Skin
Was Clear and Smooth.
“I wish to say I was suffering for about
six weeks with a skin affection which broke
out all of a sudden in boils like water blisters
all over my body. In fact I was covered
from head to foot with them. They were
very itchy and when I scratched them, they
became very sore and I did not know what
to do, as I could get no rest night or day, the
pain being terrible. I tried different kinds
of medicine, but they still kept breaking out.
“I then saw an advertisement recommend-
ing Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment for
ailments of the skin, so thought I would give
it a trial. I used to have a warm bath using
the Cuticura Soap, after which I applied the
Cuticura Ointment to the sores and was at
once greatly relieved of the great pain I had
been suffering. I used to bathe them twice
a day and within a fortnight the sores had
disappeared altogether and my skin became
quite clear and smooth, and am now glad
to say the cure is a permanent one, as the
trouble has not recurred.” (Signed) W. A.
Wilson, 80 Burren St Erskineville, Sydney,
N. S. W.„ May 13, 1911.
If you, or someone dear to you, have
suffered the itching, burning, sleep-destroying
torments of eczema or other cruel skin erup-
tion, with its embarrassing, unsightly dis-
figurement ; if you have tried all manner of
treatment, no matter how harsh, to no avail,
and have all but given up hope of cure, you
should know that the first warm bath with
Cuticura Soap and gentle application of Cuti-
cura Ointment bring instant relief, permit
rest and sleep, and prove the first steps in a
speedy and successful treatment, in the
majority of cases. Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment are sold throughout the world, but a
liberal sample of Cuticura Ointment, with
32-page book, will be sent free on applica-
tion to It. Towns & Co., Dept. ldK, Sydney.
J,
US’ V
Her Youth
w
rB.A
;LEN3
CU.5.A.)
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALU CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Tourists and
Traveller’s Friend.
‘SWAN’
SAFETY
Screw Cap Fountpen.
The product of 60 years’ ex-
perience. May be carried in any
position, any pocket, or any bag,
without fear of leakage. isote
the “Ladder Feed” and “Screw
Cap”—unique features which
make it far more reliable, with-
out sacrificing simplicity, than
any other pen made.
Fitted with 14-carat gold nib.
Sold by all Stationers & Jewellers.
CATALOGUE SENT FREE.
MABIE, TODD & CO.,
Manufaeturers, London.
Australasian branch (wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE,
15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond
Street, SYDNEY. [3
ertrytuyuyu
jlpolhnaris
The Queen of Table Waters
When ordering Table Water get the Best
For non-alcoholic drink
“POLLY” and LEMON
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable from All Chemists.
*
THE DREAD
- OP FOOD
GIVES PLACE TO
GOOD APPETITE
AND GOOD DIGESTION
WHEN YOU TAKE
The dread of food—because of the pains that follow, the dull
weight in your stomach, the windy pressure round your heart—
is a° natural consequence of indigestion. This all-too-common
complaint consumes your strength, wastes away your tissues
and breaks down your nerves. Thousands of people are worn
out weary, weak and disheartened by the ravages of indigestion
and’ its kindred complaints, biliousness and constipation. When
that is your condition, don’t despair, for you can certainly be
cured by Mother Seigel’s Syrup. It has cured more people of
stomach and liver troubles, pains after eating, loss of appetite,
headaches, biliousness and constipation than any other medical
preparation that is before the public. Test it yourself!
THE DIGESTIVE TONIC
Mr T Higgins, 18, Atherton Street, Fitzroy, Vic., says:—“l
had headaches, was very costive, and suffered from terrible pains
in the stomach after eating. I could only take a little of the
lightest nourishment, and even that was frequently rejected. I
lost all my strength, decreased very much in weight, and I had
to give up work. , . , ,
“ After giving ordinary medicines a fair trial, I had to give
them up. I then began a course of Mother Seigel’s Syrup. After
taking only three bottles of the Syrup I was back to my work
a well man. I was cured, and have kept well ever since.”
MOTHER
SEIGEL'S SYRUP
IT CURES INDIGESTION!
TAKE IT DAILY. AFTER MEALS.
POEHL'S SPERMIN ESSENCE
SPERMINUM is the natural source of health and vital strength
isolated and purified from organic bases. In the form of t e
Essence, Spermin acts as a Reviver of Vital Energy, and
so stimulates healthy body juices which resist disease and retard vital
decline. Nervous Breakdown, Fatigue from
Mental and Physical Exhaustion, brought about by Uver
indulgence in Athletics will find a corrective mM«
Essence. It is of special Curative Value in all Disorders of the
Blood, the Nerves, and the Heart.
LITERATURE SENT ON APPLICATION TO STOCKHOLDERS
C. H. SMITH * Co., ROCKE TOMPSITT & Co.
22, King William Street, ADELAIDE. BI , BROS Ltd
FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co., ELLIOTT BROS, Ltd,
MELBOURNE. bYUiN£.Y.
F. H. FAULDING & Co., 31 3. Murray Street, PERTH,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
tihlcrodf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aets like a'charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
7
V
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“Benger’s Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.’
BENGERS FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists , etc.., everywhere.
823
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Patagonia,” from Emmaville (N.S.W.): Seems
strange to see men leaving here for Nigeria in
Equatorial Africa. Several miners left lately under
contract with some of the companies which have se-
cured concessions in Nigeria to work tin. All of the
men are married, with the exception of one. It is
to be hoped the Government has seen to it that there
was something in the shape of life insurance, so as
to secure the families left from want, in the event
of any of the parties doing a foreign perish, It is
stated that the wages are £35 per month, and an
allowance of £9 per month for expenses, and that,
in the event of the men working nine months con-
tinuously, they are entitled to three months’ leave on
full pay. It would seem, from the liberality of the
terms, that there hiust be a fly or bee or perhaps
elephant in the ointment, although it is not sup-
posed to be so bad an adventure as that undertaken
by those who left here for the West African hinter-
land some few years ago. There are also men going
to Cornwall, to initiate the Cousin Jacks into the
mysteries of dredging, or hydraulic sluicing. These
get 10s. per shift of eight hours.
* * * *
“Porky”: Hark to a tale of Red Tape. The Postal
Department is about to connect Nyngan with the
trunk telephone system at Nevertire. There is
already a line, of standard material, on departmental
poles, from Nevertire to Belaringar (eight miles).
It was erected by the department under the pur-
chase system, for the owners of the station, at the
owners’ expense. But the owners now wish to dis-
continue the use of the line. They sug-
gested that, as the department was about to
erect a wire to Nyngan, it should take
over the line at a fair valuation. But that
was much too easy: some panjandrum said it wasn’t
the custom, or some such absurd thing, and inti-
mated that the existing line must be dismantled by
the department’s own men, at the subscribers’ ex-
pense. Which means that the workmen, having dis-
mantled the line, must climb the same old poles to
put identical insulators into the same sockets, and
erect and strain the identical wire. Blow red tape!
* * * *
“Tiaki”: I received a sheaf of paper the other day
from the land of wooden nutmegs, where San Fran-
cisco grows, showing me that I could, under a
“dollar-by-dollar” plan, place sufficient money to my
credit with them (the d.-by-d. people) to finance my
prospective trip to the Panama-Pacific Exposition of
1915. I went through most of the enthusiastic invi-
tation, and found no provision made for interest on
the sum which I am to send to ’Frisco for safe keep-
ing. Certainly, there is a guarantee to refund the
splosh in the event of the depositor’s death; but
nothing is mentioned as to what is going to happen
if he falls off financially at half-time, or three-
quarter time, or even six-sevenths time. On the
other hand, I was assailed with a poetic outburst, to
this effect: “Ho! For the golden sunshine. Ho!
For ’Frisco and her open, throbbing heart. Ho!
For the castanets of the Spanish dancer and the
grace of the Arab maid. Ho! For the golden pop-
pies flashing on a thousand hills and the timid
violets blushing in a thousand dells.” Also, What
Ho ! She bumps—perhaps.
* * ♦ *
“Gwy”: The N.S.W. country trader is beginning
to find that Private Enterprise is the best thing in
the world—as long as it’s your own Enterprise. A
pouple of years ago half a dozen of the biggest stores
in the State threw in and formed the State Stores,
Ltd., and pooled their orders. About the middle of
last year another half-dozen went into the warehouse
business on their own account, and caused McLinen,
Fluff and Co. further consternation. Now, the coun-
try storekeeper—loo of him already—has broken out
into the Retailers’ Co-operative Manufacturing and
Importing Co., Ltd. The capital of the concern is
nominally £40,000, but only 20,000 £1 shares are
being offered in the first instance. Among the lines
the concern intends to manufacture are pickles,
sauces, spices, pepper, cordials, vinegar and most of
the shelf goods which are still imported in disgrace-
ful quantities. Largely as a result of using a “mail
order” system of ascertaining the requirements of its
shareholders, instead of sending out travellers at an
average expense of £lO per week per man, the co.
hopes to save a pot of money for everybody inter-
ested.
* * * *
Australian brains once more! A Melbourne in-
ventor is giving successful exhibitions of his patent
ship’s-bottom cleaner, a motor-driven revolving brush,
held against the ship’s underside and pressed thereto
by a propeller at the other end of the driving-rod.
All vessels are supposed to be docked and cleaned
once a year, but warships and ocean greyhounds are
scraped every three months, and the job that costs
£lOOO each time by the old process, the Melbourne
man says he can do for less than £lOO.
THE SONG OF THE CENT. PER CENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I heard the song of the tempered heart
In the stench of the burning oil;
I saw the quivering pistons start,
Then shudder and then recoil;
I heard the whir of the driving wheel,
And over it Sirens blent
Their song with a clamor of gleaming steel
That sang of the cent, per cent.
I heard the strain in the watches long;
In the wake of the coffin barque
I saw the note of the harpies’ song
On the fin of the waiting shark ;
There gripped the ship in a green-sea vice
The furies the storm unpent —
I heard it claiming its sacrifice,
The song of the cent, per cent.
I heard it there where the cattle roared
In a stream by the western plain,
The song that rang from the swollen ford
To the sentinel ranges’ chain ;
I saw the stab of the circling horn
That sundered and gored and rent,
Where it fathered the stockman’s babe unborn,
The song of the cent, per cent.
It trammelled the lives of our younger men
With a burden of irksome gyves,
It tied them down to a scratching pen
In a myriad business hives; '
It stamped their frames with the brand of eld
Ere youth and its dream were spent;
I heard it ring o’er tne saplings felled,
The song of the cent, per cent.
They phantom-like in the factory toiled,
The pallid brigade of Pain,
Who passed their span in the dust, despoiled
Of river and reaching plain;
They saw the source of the dreamer’s dream.
In the stretch of the azure tent,
But over it hovered the strident scream,
The song of the cent, per cent.
Where greed insatiate held the earth
A-thrall in its chains arrayed,
Where Mammon strangled the child of Mirth
By churches where people prayed;
On the loathsome breath of the foetid slum
That wandered with fell intent,
I heard it over the anthem come,
The song of the cent, per cent.
It sowed its seed in the fallow land,
And guerdoned us but with pain,
And so we tramped to the pallid band
And garnered the master’s grain;
It sowed the sea with our graveless dead, .
It followed its sordid bent,
It dyed the mere and the mead in red,
The song of the cent, per cent.
N.S.W.
L.A.R.


Missing: Friends.
WOULD ROBERT McGAW, who is anxiously
sought for by his niece Sally, late of Partick,
kindly communicate with Mrs. Jno. McNee, Afton
House, Crieff, Perthshire, Scotland. Any informa-
tion regarding above will be gratefully received.
BENGTSON.— Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of Swen Bengtson, horn
1845, in Torarp, Asarum, Forsamling,
Blekinge, Sweden, please communicate with
BERNHARD JOHNSON,
2556 Pandora Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.,
Canada.
Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres,
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction....... .J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11.a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous 'Show System now the
Rage of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre:
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE Gd.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are
the Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LIMITED.
INTERNATIONA!, PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Wm. H. Bell, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial
Theatres with all their photo, plays, and also supplies
the leading photo, play concerns throughout Aus-
tralasia. In fact, we supply more shows with pictures
than any other three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call. ’
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo, play manufacturers, but we repre-
sent all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EX-
CLUSIVE SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Trustee
Chambers, Perth; Courier Buildings, Brisbane;
Wellington, New Zealand-; London, England;
Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: WILLIAM ANDERSON:
Wm. Anderson’s New Dramatic Organisation, including
WALTER BAKER and FRANCES ROSS.
M Y PARTNER,
THE MAGNIFICENT- AMERICAN HUMAN DRAMA.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6 and 1/-. Plan at Paling’s.
No Booking Fee.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
Sole Proprietors: Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd.
VIRILE VAUDEVILLE.
MISS BEAUMONT COLLINS & Co., in BEDFELLOWS.
SYLVESTA &DE COURTNEY. MILLIE DORIS.
EMERALD & DUPRE. HAARLEM TRIO.
MAY EDYTHE TAYLOR. HARRY SIMS.
Prices as usual. Plans at Theatre.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
STILL SPREADING LAUGHTER AND GAIETY
THU QUAKER GIR L.
Incidental to Act 111.
LA DANSE DE CHAMPAGNE,
Clever, Original, Artistic.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
HILDA SPONG in
EVERY WOMAN,
One of the most notable dramatic productions ever staged.
PLAN AT PALING’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 3.
THE PLAY AND BRILLIANT ACTING
HAVE WON 1 A POPULAR TRIUMPH.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S GREAT PRODUCTION.
A EOOL THERE WAS.
POPULAR PRICES: 45., 35., 2s. and Is.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, FOR BRIEF SEASON ONLY.
THE LUCK OP ROARING
CAMPu
Superbly Interpreted and Gorgeously Mounted by
George Marlow’s Brilliant Dramatic Combination.
POPULAR PRICES.
PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
-J-HE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
o
LYMPIA AND
GLACIARIUM,
SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No extra Fee).
Amusements.
THE ALHAM H 1: A THEATRE,
■ Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
PEOPLE’S PRICES, 3d., 6d., Is.
EXHIBITION BUILDING
(PRINCE ALFRED PARK).
Director: BEAUMONT SMITH.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
CIRCUS. VAUDEVILLE. VILLAGE.
THE MARVELLOUS MIDGET VILLAGE,
TINY TOWN.
And its fascinating little inhabitants of 30 odd inches.
PRICES : Adults 25., Children Is. Plan at Paling’s.
DICKABDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE.
1 * General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
MISS IRENE MILLER, England’s Refined Comedienne.
WILLIE GARDNER, America’s Champion Skate Dancer.
THE ATHLETAS, Three Charming Lady Athletes.
TERRY & LAMBERT, Character Impressionists.
IKE & WILL SCOTT, Versatile Comedians.
HERBERT RULE, One of England’s Foremost Comedians.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE. MELBOURNE.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
RINALDO, the Wandering Violinist.
EMERSON & BALDWIN, Club Juggling Comedians.
CARLTON MAX. DU FOR TRIO.
FRED POPLAR, Character Comedian.
KITTY WAGER, Brilliant Soubreite.
ITENRIETTE & SELINA, Society Entertainers.
WILSON HALLETT, Mimic and Comedian.
HENRY & HINDE, Comic Cyclists.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —35., 25., Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
LAST SIX NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC COMBINATION in
the Latest London Success,
DRIVING A GIRL TO
DESTRUCTION.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Pianola.
|„J ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE FUNNIEST, BRIGHTEST AND BIGGEST
PANTOMIME YET STAGED.
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
A MAGNIFICENT AGGREGATION OF ARTISTS.
A HOST OF NOVELTIES AND FEATURES.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY NIGHT.
MR. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S POWERFUL DRAMATIC
CO. in the Great London Lyceum Success,
HER LOVE AGAINST THE
WORLD.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —35., 2s. and Is.
The glaciarium, mgelbourne.
Lessees & Managers—Amalgamated Pictures Ltd.
EVERY .EVENING.
ertrytuyuyu
Animated Pictures in Actual Natural Colors.
SPECIAL NOTE. —Kinemacolor films are not hand-
colored films ; they are actual photographs of Nature,
and the colors are imprinted in the pictures at the
time of photographing. PRICES: 3s. to 6d.
ST. R I L D A BEACH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30
J. & N. TAIT present
THE FOLLIES.
THE RECOGNISED LEADING ALFRESCO SHOW:
ON ST. KILDA BEACH. (
SPLENDID PROGRAMME.
CHANGE EVERY MONDAY.
PRICES: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Reserved Seats at Allan’s and Haber’s.
Amusements.
|VJEW HIPPODROME.
VVIRTHS’ PARK.
Direction .. MELBOURNE DRAMATIC CO.
The LAST TWO NIGHTS of the Successful Drama,
THE POWER OF THE CROSS.
Interpreted hv a Strong Dramatic Organisation including
RO3ERT INMAN and ADA GUILDFORD.
SATUR 'VY, FEBRUARY ‘24, and five following nights,
THE HEART OF A HERO.
Prices—6d. to 2/. Box Plan at Allan’s.
-|*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
SATURDAY NEXT, 24th FEBRUARY.
FOR A BRIEF RUN ONLY.
MR. J. 0. WILLIAMSON presents
ALIAS JIMMY VALENTINE
A Snappv American Quick-Pulse Drama. A Brilliant
Cast Headed by WILLIAM DESMOND,
DOROTHY DIX and GASTON MERVALE.
Plan at Allan’s. SW PRICES AS USUAL.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCERS THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
\A#EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE;
the best WEST’S PICTURES, the besx
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —-6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous "MaeK ' Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
ertrytuyuyu
QIVEN away,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
"• post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
VVrite to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller's Featlaer Sh.op,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
The'Standard Remedy wn.cn has outlived tlie UetfturicH.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN, 210. Lambeth Ko*<i. London, En
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, Cd.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
2nd to 10th APRIL,
£5OOO PRIZES
£5OOO
ENTRIES CLOSE—
Export Butter...
Wines
Storage Cheese
Horses
Cattle ...
Sheep and Pigs
Poultry
February 26
February 27
February 28
... March 2
... March 4
... March 4
... March 5
Pigeons and Canaries ... March 6
Dogs ... March 7
Farm and Dairy Produce ... March 8
Foods and Apiculture ... March 8
Women’s Industries ... March 9
Miscellaneous March 11
PRIZE SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney. M ' Secretary.
THE MERITS OF THE “PLUM.”
'ft*'.
WE GUARANTEE EVERY “PLUM’
WE SELL FOR TWO YEARS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG ®. AITKEN,
We do not claim for the Plum Razor anything that
it doesn’t possess. We test every razor before we
send it out. If it doesn’t ring clear and loud, then
it is not sold.
The Plum Razor, being made from perfectly tem-
pered silvery steel, a keen, true edge is always ob-
tained with but a few rubs on your strop.
It glides over the face with a soft, feathery, vel-
vety sensation, and does not hone or rash, but cuts
every hair. Price 10/6. Post Free.
TheC. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
We Crind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
All. the Above
Post Free.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/G.
G 54 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
The Muddle in Maoriland.
Since the sudden collapse of louseph
Ward’s majority in the Maoriland Parlia-
ment as a result of the elections last Novem-
ber, the Ricketty Islands have been much
agitated. The two main parties—Liberal
and Conservative—found themselves evenly
balanced, owing, in the one case, to the fact
that the Labor men, Socialists, Independents
and Maoris, seeing a chance to corner the
political situation, promptly made it clear
that the old alliance with the Liberals, which
had lasted for 2U years, was no longer satis-
factory, and, in the other case, to a gener-
ally unexpected increase of strength by rea-
son of the sudden bursting of pent-up per-
sonal and political antagonism to Ward, his
financial shiftlessness, his title, his fatuous
schemes for running Bull’s Empire from
Waipukurau or somewhere, and all his works.
The rush for the remnants set in at once,
and raised a dust that could be seen afar off.
Portfolios were held out as bait by both sides,
influences were brought to bear, and forlorn
hopes and secret expeditions moved in all
directions. The public talked, read, fought,
cursed and dreamed about “the situation.”
Bookmakers forgot to go to church and give
a helping thrippence to their parson allies.
The teetotal Stigginses based their yowls
on “Purity In Public Life” instead of, as
usual, “The Blight of the Barmaid.” Rival
editors spoke the truth about each other,
and the rags they controlled. Beer and life-
long friendships were overturned simultane-
ously. Meanwhile, Joseph was keeping his
own counsel. To the demands of his oppo-
nents that he should abdicate, he smiled. To
the clamor of the press that he should put
them wise to his purpose, he smiled some
more. To the wild-fire rumors that he would
resign before Parliament assembled, that he
was to take over the High Commissionership,
that he was leaving public life altogether,
that he was going to reconstruct the Minis-
try, that he was going to get work, he kept
on smiling. Nevertheless, Joseph was in a
bad way. Even if the party could be held
together, and the half-dozen or so' Labor-
Maori-Independents placated so that office
could be retained, the Ministry, which never
was anything but a Ministry of patronage,
was marked for the butchers. When the
Parliament met last Thursday, Ward spread
out his inducements to the recalcitrants, and
they were almost as big a surprise as the
reason for their display. The programme in-
cluded a Bill for striking down the nominee
Legislative Council (so long opposed by
leader of Opposition Massey) in its
tracks, and rearing over its carcase an elec-
tive body; a Bill to carve up estates of an
unimproved value of £25,000 and over, in
order to make closer settlement a sure busi-
ness at last; the long-stalled-off settlement
of unoccupied native lands, or what is left of
them ; a Bill giving power to the Courts to
forfeit all land aggregated to estates in con-
travention of the law; increased land tax,
with the exemption margin raised to £lOOO
for the benefit of the small settler; a taxa-
tion scheme for differentiating between the
earned and the unearned income; a taxation
reduction for the family man; a standing
commission to investigate questions affecting
the cost of living, monopolies, unemployment
and other enemies of the people ; the removal
of a Supreme Court Judge from the presi-
dency of the Arbitration Court; a State
guarantee, under certain conditions, of capi-
tal required by workers for profit-sharing
schemes with employers; revision of the
tariff; railway concessions, such as carrying
children between the ages of five and 14 on
the trains at quarter rates ; nationalisation
of the iron industry, and probably the oil-
fields : co-operative farms, banks and a State
note issue ; free education from the primary
schools to the University, and other things
beside. It is a last desperate effort to save
the party in the House, or on another appeal
to the country, and about the only thing
wrong with it is that it is so obviously a
mere political trick, with as much sincerity
behind it as in the reform promise of the
average drunkard. Apparently, Ward had
offered every darned thing he could think of
regardless of expense—-everything except sol-
vent finance. And perhaps he didn’t think
of that.
“Politicus” writes: —
The S. M. Herald is making a loud song about the
fact that the people of Australia have given “no
mandate at all” for Unification. In a sense they
haven’t. On the other hand, they have given definite
and repeated mandates for the New Protection and for
the Commonwealth control of monopolies. They gave
their mandates as far back as six years ago. More-
over, the policies in question are not only those of
the Federal Labor party, but of the leader of the
“Liberals.” Deakin, as a matter of fact, was one of
the first advocates of the New Protection. The High
Court has interpreted the Constitution to mean that
without what the S. M. Herald calls Unification,
there is no assurance that Australia’s manufacturing
industries will pay decent wages, and Australia’s
Trusts can never be forced to stop robbing the public.
What the politician has, therefore, to consider is
whether the people have given him a mandate to
allow them to go on being fleeced. If they have, he
presumably barracks for the present system; in the
other event he supports the Unification horror.
Melbourne Age, trying to flog life into the
dead proposal to erect a national monument
to the memory of those Cohentingers who
were killed in Chowth Africa, had the gall
to drag in the Eureka Stockade to its sup-
port :
When the goldfields were threatened with the heavy
hand of old-world oppression, under a martinet
English Governor and his military commandant, the
Eureka Stockade was their answer. It was enough.
There were no more digger hunts. Peter Lalor was
a digger who stood up against an aggravating
tyranny, and he was a fitting hero for the rough men
of those times.
In other words, Lalor and his men were
heroes, because they stood up and opposed
the tyranny of the then British Government.
But when the Boers stood up against the
worse tyranny of a later British Govern-
ment, the heroes were the Cohentingers who
rushed out to shoot them down.
Even if the Commonwealth Oil Co. had
been better managed and less grossly over-
capitalised, it would have got into trouble
just the same, but not quite so soon. It was
up against Freetrade in oil, and while cheap
labor countries like Eastern Russia, Java,
Sumatra, Japan and Burma are great oil-
suppliers, the trade can’t. pay decent Aus-
tralian wages out of earnings. It may pay
for a while out of capital, but that is merely
a case of the dog living on his own tail and
hindquarters. When he has eaten so much
of the back part of himself that he can’t
reach round for another bite, then the dog
necessarily closes up. A Labor-Freetrader is
the same thing as a Pork Hebrew. He is
trying to reconcile the irreconcilable.
“Jean Sibi’s” art note: —
Rupert Bunny’s portrait of Professor Leeper, at
the Melbourne Gallery, is hanging between represen-
tative works by Streeton and Heysen. No arrange-
ment could be better calculated to deprive Bunny of
a seat among the immortals. In such brilliant sur-
roundings his canvas looks futile. The head is life-
less ; the hands are unattractively drawn; the
shadows under the chin show that the artist is none
too certain of the anatomy of an angular pedagogue’s
neck. The production altogether is feeble as a pic-
ture, hopeless as an entertainment, and depressing as
a work of art. Bunny, I fear, is a failure as a por-
trait-painter, whatever he may be as an illustrator of
his wife’s attitudes, tea-gowns and hairdressing
modes.


Shipping:.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 las. & £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SAWDERSON, LTD.. 7 Bent St.
Mrlhouhne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Ldklaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE,
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2000
on Country Linds, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS from 4 to 5 per cert.
on City and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE. . ;
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
gank of neui Zealand.
SYDNEY- BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .... . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE.
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (31st December, 1911).. £1,193,047
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; Georje J. Sly, Fsq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Usq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 2
Capital Paid Up .. •• •• 413,588 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors- JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNlio. Esq.; JOHN CAMERON, Esq.; F.
i LORD, Esq.; GEO. EDW. BUNNING, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
; HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord D
eutscher JL/loyd.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with'-Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOIIMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —‘‘ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
♦Calls Hobart, a New Steamer, b Triple-screw Turbine.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London . . From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£110 (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ertrytuyuyu
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
March 15.
MEDtC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
April 11,
AFRJC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 8.
SUiiVIC and PERSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £24 3 0
London . . . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. . • IV* ®
New York, Boston, Quebec, ,
Montreal, etc., from . 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Cruises to the
fe.
south vSeas.
Interesting tours to Volcanic and Coral Islands
of the Pacific.
Calm Seas and splendid Scenery: a complete
change, affording unrivalled opportunities of view-
ing the native inhabitants in complete safety in
their semi-barbarous state.
Cruises can be taken, occupying from 22 days
upwards, visiting from two to 120 ports or
Islands.
.Saloon Fares from under 10s. per day upwards.
Send for our Illustrated Pamphlet.
-
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established
1817.
Paid-up
Reserve
Reserve
Capital
Fund -
Liability
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Normand MaeLaurin, Itt.,
ertrytuyuyu
£3,000,000
£2,025.000
£3,000,000
£8,025,000
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington
Palmer,
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles If. Maclcellar, Ift., M.L.C.
I Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Esq. ; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—Georgre St., Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 335 Branches in all the Australian State's, Mew Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 2, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United
Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South
America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
, Capital Paid-up .. .. • • £1,500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • 1,500,000
Capital .. .. .. 1,500,000
r £4,500,000
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq . . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Pon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Diubs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayehs.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: IS Bircliin-Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£769,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. =======
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Gannon Street, London,
21' BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial jljutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
i FOR
Mufhql Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5.300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:•
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Service.
To Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
By the Up-to-date Steamships
“KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
“ LEVUKA ” ... 6500 tons
“ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
“WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
And other well-known Steamers fitted with all
conveniences for the comfort of passengers.
. Tickets interchangeable with other Inter-State
Companies.
Also First-Class Return Tickets to Melbourne, Ade-
laide and Brisbane available for return journey by
Rail under certain conditions.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers.
Further information on application to —
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
i — FOE
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: Victoria:
Metropolitan Buildings, 48 Queen St.,
Adelaide St.,. Brisbane. Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPeO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports. _
S.S. Kyarra (7000 tons)
March 16 and April 2
Wireless Telegraphy.
BRISBANE
MACKAt
Townsville
And Ports North to OMrna.
S.S. Grantala (Wireless
Telegraphy), Feb. 24.
S.S. ilarloo, March 2.
Best anti Cheapest Route to Goldfleltls,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe-—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—-
UNION STIiAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.— H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. ESSEX,
11,400 Tons. H. W. Robertson, Commander.
Will be despatched fr< m BRISBANE .. 24th FEBY.
~ ~ ~ SYDNEY . 2nd MARCH
~ „ ~ MELBOURNE Bth MARCH
„ „ „ HOBART .. 14th MARCH
„ ~ ADELAIDE .. 19th MARCH
the Saloon accommodation consists of ail two-
berth cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised
of two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the
main deck, amidships, with dining room on the
upper deck. AVell lighted and ventilated cabins'and
spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh pro-
visions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. .Electric light
throughout. Return and Round trip tickets issued
via Cape and (or! Suez routes. Prepaid passages
arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES .. £4O. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. Prop., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
.Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
HOWARD SMITH DINE
OF
MAGNIFICENT MODERN STEAMSHIPS,
s.s. “COOMA,” s.s. “ BOMBALA,” s.s. “PEREGRINE.’
MELBOURNE-QUEENSLAND SERVICE.
These Steamers run to the following itinerary —
Melbourne depart.......... Wednesday
Sydney arrive.......... Friday
Sydney depart Saturday
Brisbane arrive. Monday
Brisbane depart Tuesday -
Keppel Bay arrive and depart Wednesday
Mackay arrive and depart Thursday
Townsville arrive... Friday
CAIRNS (Passengers and Cargo) tranship to T.S.S.
MOURILYAN (1350 tons), which Steadier also
‘ takes passengers and cargo for other - Ports be-
tween Townsville, Cairns and Port Douglas.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND WEST AUSTRALIA,
SERVICE.
Large Passenger and Cargo Steamers leave .Sydney
and Melbourne regularly each month for Adelaide,
Albany and Fremantle, transhipping for other S.A.
and W.A. Ports.
FOR FARES, TIMETABLES AND ALL
PARTICULARS, APPLY—
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, LIMITED.
Branches all Ports.


Hotels, &c.
George, hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS
U/ye HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
Business Announcements ■
m
h'-;
-
A is
E
;r
x
-
m
..
m
a gp p
m.
■
(ffflebiiAtt'o
■ .
MALT
WSSM
Kl
■ WM
brewed from
malted BARLEY
■ftpE&BRIOCkR?
£s* 1? 0< > **»■ .. - '
. aMR LV ; -4‘»
CHAMPION
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts- of the world.
ertrytuyuyu
* may be a
Guide in the
selection of a
Braham
Costume
for
1912.
Our new materials
are now to hand,
and we invite a visit
of inspection.
DAVID
BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
Tasmania for Tourists.
TEMPERATURE MILD;
ATMOSPHERE EXHILARATING
SCENERY MAGNIFICENT.
Tourists Splendidly Looked After by the Well Organised Tourist Association.
Hig'hfield Hotel, Hobart
THE LEADING HOTEL THE FASHIONABLE RESORT OF TOURISTS.
LAVISHLY FURNISHED; EXCELLENT ATTENDANCE:
FIRST-CLASS CUISINE ; KOSHER MEAT ; TELEPHONE ;
ELECTRIC LIGHT; SELECT BILLIARD ROOM.
ARRANGEMENTS MADE FOR MOTOR STORAGE.
CENTRAL SITUATION—CLOSE TO RIVER, RAIL, TRAMS, G.P.0., TOURIST BUREAU, Ac.
ROOMS NOW BEING BOOKED FOR COMING SEASON. EARLY APPLICATION REQUESTED.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfield Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
r<Ti> Li i frftia i iW»i ns wm mTraimMrff * u
a
Capillarine is not a newly-discovered and experimental hair pro-
ducer. It has 30 years’ reputation of unparalleled success behind it.
If you have tried pomades without success, don’t despair—use Cap-
illarine. Just rub a little on your upper lip at night—no one can de-
tect its usage; and in a remarkably short time a profuse supply of
strong, thick hair, will sprout out.
PRICE 10/6 JAR . Post Freo Anywhere.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER —worn at night—will
make your Moustache grow shapely. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney. Established 30 Years.
s
V
J
Insurance, &c.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE COMPANY Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company
are hereby notified that the Dividend of
3s. per share for half-year ended the 30th
November last is now payable at the Com-
pany’s office, 77 Pitt Street.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALIAN INSURERS.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
THE Australian Magazine—THE lONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
m
j
\i
MIGHELIN
has Just issued the
most, complete list of
Tyres and Accessories
in Australia.
PRICES
REDUCED
in most instances.
jn_ The‘ALLENBURYS’Diet is a
** Or 42/1 complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form.
Ma.de in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN & HAN BUR YS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ertrytuyuyu
ertryertrytuyuyutuyuyu


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
OTICED the recent increase in the bulk of
The Lone Hand? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
will rush it. But it enables the proprietors to
give more reading matter for the same price—
Sixpence.
“OSMAN” PYJAMAS
7/6 THE SUIT; 3 SUITS FOR 21/-
POST FREE.
We need not go into details about the merits
of “Osman” Flannelette; all we need say is
the name “Osman” is an endorsement of Qual-
ity. It is like the stamp of 18 carat in your
ring.
The Pyjamas are made in our own electric-
ally-equipped workrooms, by expert hands.
There’s perfection in every Suit.
PRICE 7/6, or 3 SUITS for 21/-
POST FREE.
FINNEY, ISLES S CO.
LIMITED,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
One of the Brisbane strike leaders, Peter
Henderson, found himself faced by a divided
duty. In his capacity as a member of the
Marine Board, he was a controller of pilot
steamers and other small marine deer, and
an employer of labor, and in his other
capacity, as secretary of a union, he called
his own men out on strike against himself.
It was a difficult yet logical attitude, and
Peter Henderson was getting along all right.
But the mirthless Denham Ministry, instead
of trying to swear him in as a special con-
stable, remoA r ed him from the Marine Board,
and thus spoiled a very interesting situation.
When the war is over in Brisbane, organ-
ised Labor would do well to take stock of
its leaders, and consider whether it doesn’t
want a new lot. It isn’t necessarily any dis-
grace to lose a battle, for someone must lose;
still, a commander is expected to make some
kind of a show. Especially that is the case
when the general incites to the war, organ-
ises the forces, and takes charge of the cam-
paign. In such a case it is disappointing to
find that his hope lies in the idea that the
other party won’t fight, and that when the
other party makes even a show of resist-
ance, he merely issues a few inspiriting proc-
lamations about alleged bombs that he has
in his pockets and alleged aces concealed in
his clothes, and then crumples up and leaves
his forces to make the best terms they can.
If that doesn’t suggest treason, then it im-
plies gigantic incapacity, and better leader-
ship is badly wanted.
“Nukuseva” on a scrap of history:—
“Quidam” (B. 8/2/’l2) tells how Captain Mackay
found and named the river now known as the
Pioneer, and says that Commodore Burnett, of the
Pioneer, changed the name from Mackay because he
had just previously named another river the Mackay,
after one of his own officers. The case for the
Pioneer and its commander can be put a little better
than that. The Mackay River, of Rockingham Bay,
was named by Captain Blackwood, of 11.M.5. Rattle-
snake, in 1848, after one of his officers. In the
early ’7o’s the name was changed to the Tully, after
the then Surveyor-General of Queensland, but the
latter name is already obsolete. Thus the Roeking-
ham Bay Mackay River was named 12 years before
the other river was named Mackay, after the man
who discovered it. In 1863, on Commodore Burnett
visiting the northern coast in 11.M.5. Pioneer (Com-
mander O’Reilly), he noted the two rivers named
Mackay, and suggested that, in order to avoid geo-
graphical and other mistakes hereafter, Captain
Mackay’s discovery further south, being the' last to
be named, should be called the Pioneer, in honor
of that ship’s visit to Queensland. This name it
still retains. While anchored at Port Denison, the
officers of the Pioneer were invited to a kangaroo-
hunt on shore, with the result that Commander
O’Reilly was killed, through his horse bolting
and coiliding with a tree. All that is left of him
rests in a grave on the banks of the Don River. And
a few months afterwards, Commodore Burnett was
lost, with his ship (11.M.5. Orpheus) on the Manu-
kau bar, Avest coast of Maoriland.
“K.S.W.” : For months past the Commis-
sioner for Railways has been storing coal
and making other preparations for a strike,
lockout, or other labor smash. Why?
Who gave the Commissioner the tip to get
ready? And since the Commissioner plainly
knew that something was pending, why did
not the Government take measures to pre-
vent the upheaval ? Or did the Denham
crowd reckon that it was better political
tactics to let the upheaval happen? It looks
like it.
Mount Morgan “blew in” its first High
School the other day, and others at Warwick,
Gympie, Mackay, Herberton and Charters
Towers received their baptism of babble at
much the same time. These towns haven’t
got “grammar schools,” so the State supplies
them with the means of secondary education
—and, incidentally, drives a nail or two into
the coffins of those expensive institutions
wherein Fat, junr., is fed and fashioned,
mostly at the expense of the community.
Police Commissioner Cahill has shown a
painful and totally unnecessary disposition
during the strike to run to bayonets. The
Brisbane crowds were, on the whole, emin-
ently peaceful, and the spectacle of 2000
police and “specials” (some hundreds dis-
playing cold steel) parading three hours in
the Market Square, against an enemy that
made no illegal demonstration, was too
ridiculous for words. It looks exceedingly
absurd, too, to see an exalted officer riding
after alleged rioters and smacking at them
Avith his truncheon (and missing them, by
the way), just like a common constable.
Still, a man is not trained in the Irish Con-
stabulary for nothing.
G. S. Curtis, one of the old band of “sep-
arationists,” has been selected to contest Rock-
hampton in the Denham interest. Curtis sat
nine years for Rockhampton, six of them as
Wullie Ividston’s colleague. Then they parted,
and Curtis twice tried to oust the Falkirk
gentleman from his seat, but each time the
referee gave the decision against him, or he
was counted out, or something.
ENGLISH AS SHE IS UNDERSTOOD.
"Come and have a faste, old man; it won't do you any good!"
" N o, thauks , it's too early. Besides, I've just had two!"
One charming feature about the Brisbane
general strike was that, although bread, meat
and milk were subject to hindrance, the sani-
tary services were in no way impeded. A piece
of gentlemanly consideration!
Brisbane has a parson named Bradbury,
who, according to the Courier, got up into
his coward’s castle the other Sunday and
preached on the text, “Put up thy sword.”
Thus the parson from the place where he
couldn’t be argued with
The darkest blot on modern Australian legislation
was preference to unionists, and he strongly depre-
cated and predicted failure for the present attempt
to, etc., etc.
Bradbury says he wants peace to reign and
reason to rule; yet when certain people form
themselves into a union, and agree under a
bond that so far as they are concerned, peace
shall reign and reason shall rule, Bradbury
declares that they shouldn’t be given any
preference over other men who haven’t given
any such undertaking or entered into any
such bond. If Bradbury wanted a Sunday-
school superintendent, and had an idea that
the person ought to be sober and virtuous,
presumably in the interests of sobriety and
virtue he would refuse to give preference to
a man who undertook to be both things.
And if Bradbury replies that some unionists
have kicked over the traces and gone on
strike regardless of Arbitration Acts, this
paper will merely ask Bradbury whether he
proposes to take no more marriage fees,
simply because a few married couples have
kicked over their traces.
Northern Voices.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
N.S.AV.
Far beyond the sheltering haven,
Past the lonely Brothers three,
Shores by whisp’ring waters laven
Call to me insistently;
Shores that call with voice of pity
Bid me from the great unrest,
From the smoke-rack of the city,
From the ways of men unblest.
There the serried barley grasses,
Green and lush, at morning wave
To tiie halcyon that passes,
To the banks the waters lave.
There the soul imbibes the leaven
Of the ripe paspalum sea.
There the mundane gate of Heaven
Opes to all eternally.
While a hundred surfs are droning
On the river’s bar of gold—
Choristers of time, intoning
Anthems as the ages old—
Come with me ; the cities strangle
Greater thought, ’tis here reviled;
Man has ceased to grasp and ivrangle
Where the fruits of earth grow wild.
Come with me and stand enraptured,
By the ebb tide’s swifter flow,
Where the waters hold the captured
Iridescence of the bow;
Where of life the Mighty Giver
Bends to hear the children’s hymn,
Naiads of the Northern river,
They, the earth-born cherubim.
Here the sordid thrive and fatten,
Waxetli gross each Mammon ant;
Here the lees revive and batten,
Parasite and sycophant;
Come with me. Let time behold them
Ground as grain in God’s own mills.
While their ebon sins enfold them,
Seek the river and the hills.
There the stream of ceaseless gliding
Sends aloft an eerie croon
To the swans in phalanx riding
Swiftly to the far lagoon ;
Fairy frond and elfin flower,
Twined with osiers of green,
Arabesque the unroofed bower
Of the dreaming Northern Queen.
Sing the shores in tuneful fashion,
Steal their glorious anthems on—-
Sweeter not thy song of passion
To Alexis, Corydon—-
Where beyond the shelt’ring haven,
Where beyond the Brothers three
Shores by murm’ring waters laven
Tune their reeds incessantly.
L.A.R.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 17, 1912.
My Dear Tiiakgomindah, —
There is an ominous quiet in vice-regal
circles that leads me to believe that Wee
Macgregor is busy hatching another edict.
He was going to the W arwick Show this
week, but decided to remain at home and
continue giving vice-regal patronage to Bad-
ger’s show.
Strikes and rumors of strikes notwith-
standing, we are marrying and giving in
marriage with unabated cheerfulness. A few
days ago the Harbottle-Pinnock alliance was
formed in the old Petrie mansion. Olive
Pinnock’s mother was a Petrie, and her
father was Major Pinnock, a son of Philip
Pinnock, for so long sheriff of Brisbane. Only
near relatives were present when the deed
was done, amongst them being Constance
Campbell Petrie, who wrote one of the best
histories of Queensland under the title of
“Reminiscences of Tom Petrie.” After the
ceremony, the newly-wedded fled per s.s.
Orient from the country which Denham rules
with police batons.
Elinor Hardie, elder daughter of the medi-
cal gent of that name, weds, on the 28th of
this month, one Cameron, whose family has
amassed considerable coin in the cow indus-
try out West. Two other engagements have
also burst like bombs over the devoted heads
of the mothers of eligible daughters. One is
that of D. J. Nelson, son of the late Hugh
Nelson, to Miss Colina Munro, an offshoot of
the house of Toowoomba’s Duncan Munro. A
few years ago, Captain R. H. Munro, the
bride-to-be’s brother, annexed a daughter of
the house of Nelson, so honors are easy. The
other engagement is a matter between Dr.
Schmidt, of Bundaberg, and pretty little
Edith Ward, of Warwick. The lady’s par-
ents entertained all her pals at a dance last
Wednesday, to celebrate at one swell whoop
the double event of her engagement and her
21st birthday.
Pearl-king Jim Clarke has just bought
Northampton Downs, at a figure that makes
a mere scribe’s brain reel. Wifie is breath-
ing the atmosphere of the Blue Mountains at
present, and assisting her is Mrs. (Dr.) Hop-
kins, who is almost her own cheery self again.
W. H. Ryder, 1.5.0., Under-Secretary of
the Home Secretary’s Department, celebrated
a golden jubilee this week. A portion of the
celebration took the form of a purse of sovs.
and a parcel of silver incidentals from bro-
ther officers in the service. W.H. is one of
the most handsome men in a public job;
also, he is one of the most courteous and
obliging, which is more important.
Returned to Australia’s blue waters and
variegated shores, per steamer Otway, Mrs.
L. H. Spence, who, for about two years, has
been following the Man from Cook’s through
Yurrup. Her husband will meet her in your
grass-grown hamlet and bring her home to
this Badgered city.
Died this week, at Crow’s Nest, Mrs.
Mac Diarmid, sister of Alexander Shaw, of
Crow’s Nest, and of John Shaw, of Valley
Lagoons station. Some years ago, Mrs.
Mac Diarmid was one of the most popular
hostesses in Brisbane, and her home at
Corinda was usually thronged with young
people. Latterly she haeuTesided, a,t Crow’s
Nest, with her two sons, Qougfai add Angus.
With the painful candor that is usually
practised only by our nearest and dearest, a
small country newspaper the other day
headed its cricket column with the simple
statement, “Loss of the Asses.” If I was
certain that Clem Hill would not come
north and violently assault the editor, I’d
tell you the name of the paper. But it
shows you how truth will out, even though
you bury its bones in a cave and heap moun-
tains on its head.
The death of Parson Frackelton was re-
corded the other day, and the same congre-
gation that recklessly spent its substance in
hiring lawyers to push the old gospel-warrior
out of the Church, sang, between sobs,
“When our Heads are Bowed in Woe!” and
filled the air with Dead March. The
Church always was illogical.
Miss Phyllis Mitchell, a granddaughter of
the once well-known police'magistrate Call,
of Melbourne, has promised to say “I will”
at some future date to Neil Mcfcenny, of
the Darling Downs district. The bride-
elect is a pretty brunette, with a fine
figure and a good voice, which she lifts.on
high when the occasion seems suitable.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
About the difficulty of get ling out of a
hole :—-
The General Strike is such an illogical thing that it
has to keep on being absurd or burst. The latest
question deals with “victimisation”-—not on the part
of the one employer against whom Labor had a
genuine grievance, but on the part of those who have
a very solid grievance against the absurd union
bosses. Certain employers, with whom the unions pro-
fessed no quarrel, suddenly found their men “called
out.” They had no chance to offer any terms to the
men to induce them not to go out. Also, no con-
cessions were asked ; it was simply a case of war to
the knife about nothing that concerned them.
Because these individuals employed union labor,
the union bosses, according to the wonderful
logic of General Strike, did their best to ruin them,
it being easy to get at them when it wasn’t equally
easy to get at employers of non-union labor. Now ;
these same absurd union bosses bid certain of the,
men to go back on certain conditions. They don’t;
offer to compensate the employers whom they put to,
heavy loss for no other reason than that they em-
ployed unionists. Nothing is said about even a per-,
functory apology. Coyne, M.L.A., and his colleagues;
offer Ino assurance that they won’t start another-
General Strike in the near or remote future and re,,
new the attempt to ruin employers of union labor, AUj
they ask is that the men shall all be taken back on,
the old conditions and at the old risk. Anything-
else will come under the head of “victimisation,” and)
be considered sufficient cause for an indefinite eon-,
tinuahee of the struggle. It is difficult to run a.
General Strike on logical principles, especially when.
Badges, the whole original cause of the trouble, ip,
getting along all right, and the tail end] of the battlg-
consists in keeping the waterside workers, who never-
had anything to do with Badger, at war against a.i
set of employers who never had any control ov.en
Badger.
-*■ :
In the bitterness of its anger the Denham
Government is getting level with some of the
strike leaders, by depriving them of the king-
dom and glory of J.P.-dom. Possibly some
of the Denham crowd would either sink into
despair under such circumstances, or else be
driven mad by their loss and take to brigand-
age. But quite a lot of people regard the
J.P. designation as mere waste of space on
an envelope.
A legal authority of some tonnage has
given it as his opinion that if the Brisbane
tramway men had only kept calm, and let
Badger suspend them one by one for wear-
ing the union emblem, they could, under
existing law, have recovered damages on
each case —perhaps some few hundred lots
of beautiful damages, which would almost
certainly have made an infuriated company
sack Badger as being too expensive a man to
keep. But probably the disastrous Generali
Strike leaders never even thought of getting -
first-class counsel’s opinion before they;
rushed headlong into their upheaval.


■, ■
'.i^V' r - K'r
r.
5
B
Business
SUITS
ertrytuyuyu
SPECIALLY MADE
TO MEASURE.
1
«U THE END OF VACATION DAYS finds your wardrobe in need of attention.
Business and social duties demand attire that reflects your judgment and
good taste.
«|J WE ANSWER THE CALL of those who are particular as to their personal
appearance, and the air of GOOD ATTIRE that goes with it.
THE MATERIALS from which our BUSINESS SUITS are made are so
keenly bought from the best Home centres that it is possible for us to
make you a Suit that, whilst bearing the hall=mark of superiority so closely
associated with our Business, | is moderately priced at
made to your individual tastes and measurements.
«|J The successful creation of these Suits is a special feature with us and
one in which we take pride.
Best Hand-Made suits, 4 to 7 Guineas.
Self-measurement Forms. Patterns and Catalogue sent Post Free on application to
Piße Brothers Ltd.
BRISBANE
The Maii Order House of Australasia .
ertrytuyuyu
ertrytuyuyu


Repeating Rifles
BEST FOR AUS-
TRALIAN GAME
. J
■■
i
Some rifle makers are always
talking about the strength of
their product. You want
strength, yes, but accuracy and
dependability are the prime
requisites of a rifle. The espec-
ially strong points about Win-
m
I
ss
Chester rifles are their reliability and accurate shooting
qualities, but in attaining these, strength and wear-
ability have not been lost sight of. There are thousands
of Winchester rifles giving satisfactory service today
that were in use twenty years ago. Winchester rifles
are made in calibers for all kinds of shooting. The
Model 1892, made in .25-20,
.32, .38 and .44 calibers, is
widely used for Australian
game. These rifles are not
expensive, although they
are made to get game
and stand hard usage.
For Sale By All Dealers
Sp.«NS«:4jsr
,■ ".. v'«»io-«j,, ?rv
C‘i4^
V
99
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
by the
“ROYAL PACKET.
*. . j
m a
■
SKfe'iwJL.'
n*«t»TK
-
n '
'
'
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for . . .
Java and Singapore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Dobo and Macassar,
by the Magnificent New Steamers
Van Linschoten and Van Waerwyck.
These Steamers are specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins, all situated on the upper deck, and provided with
electric fans and large windows. No port-holes. No inside cabins. *">
Spacious promenade decks.
Return Tickets Interchangeable with Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
TO EUROPE via JAVA.
By the Fast and Luxurious Mail Steamers of the “ Nederland” 8 " Rotterdam Lloyd ”
Companies. Through Passengers booked from Australia to London at Reduced Rates.
For. further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN SANDERSON & CO., Melbourne; BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane;
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide ;
EARP BROS. & CO., LTD., Newcastle.
NEW WATCH BRACELETS
AT
STEWART DAWSON’S.
There is no article of personal adornment so useful as a good
Watch Bracelet. It not only adds an elegant touch to your costume,
but you make use of it frequently during each day. Use and Beauty
combined.
We manufacture our own goods; we import direct from our Hat-
ton Garden Centre; we sell our own goods direct to the public. This
means that you pay only one profit.
No. JBl2o—9ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with Fine Quality
LEVER WATCH,
£6/10/-
/ \
iD V§
. V* l -s CO .
ertrytuyuyu
No. J74S2 —9c t. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 15ct. GOLD
2-plate LEVER WATCH,
£7/7/-
No. C 5995 —15ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 18ct. GOLD,
High Grade, Full Jewel-
led Lever Movement,
£l7/10/-
.
X]
CO
ZX&AJUIing
No. J7B6s—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with Fine Quality
Full Jewelled WATCH,
a Reliable Timekeeper,
£5/10/-
15c t. Gold, £B/10/-
No. JBll7—9ct. GOLD
EXPANDING WATCH
BRACELET, with Full
Jewelled Lever Move-
ment, £B.
ertrytuyuyu
7.
No. J 7724 —15ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 18ct. GOLD,
Pull Jewelled LEVER
WATCH, £l4/10/-
No. J77l3—Oct. GOLD
and ENAMEL Full Jew-
elled LEVER WATCH,
with Leather Strap, £4.
ertrytuyuyu
m
P.
LADY’S GOLD BRACE-
LET WATCH, in 15ct.
Gold Case, £7/7/-
In 18ct. Gold Case, Half
Hunting Design, £ll/10/-
Otlier Styles, from
£6/10/-
“THE TREASURE HOUSE.”
Stewart Dawson & Co
(Australia) Limited,
WE ALWAYS
PAY THE
POSTAGE.
-Strand Corner ,=
412 George Street, Sydney.
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.


IIPILLI/fopJ?
o
©
IUHMIHIHItHIMHMWMIUWUI
□
SSSlji
m
5*S
5^
A
3
=rt
3
THE
Alcock Bijou Billiard Table
is constructed essentially for home use, and affords life-
time enjoyment. Both you and your friends derive
constant pleasure from it, besides giving an added induce-
ment to stay home, which you will find hard to resist.
No need then to go out for your game of Billiards. Think
how much better this is. Alcock’s “Bijou,” is the recog-
nised “Home” Billiard Table, and is favored so highly
because of its superior construction and perfect playing
qualities. Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth.
397 George St., Sydney.
114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Lower Cuba St.. Wellington.
ertrytuyuyu
The favourite
SCOTCH WHISKY
everywhere, because of its mature
ripeness, soft refinement, and exquisite
flavour.
The
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
Largest Scotch Whisky
Distillers in the World,
ISTILLERS f* OMPANY I td
.arrest Scotch Whisky Capital employed
over ,£3,000,00a N
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
SYDNEY— Ang-el Place. ?
MELBOURNE— 52, William St
'T’O SAY THE LEAST,
when the food particles
are brushed from the
teeth their opportunity for mischief ends. But
that opportunity becomes slight indeed when the
teeth receive a regular antiseptic cleansing with
Sold by
local Chemists
and Stores.
R
gse
Made by
F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
ertrytuyuyu
!■*
a
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments. Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6. Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30/-, Post Free.
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds. Price 15 1-. Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
THE CAB. FOR THE COUNTRY.
CHALMERS 20-30
Acknowledge
no Competitor.
MODELS.
20-30 2-Seater.
20-30 Pony
Tonneau.
20-30 Touring Car
WE GUARANTEE SERVICE.
This time last year the “CHALMERS” CAR was unknown to Austialia.
To-day there are 92 running, all sold within 12 months. , n
Eighty per cent, of these Cars have gone to Country Clients, because the Car
is now recognised throughout New South ales as the most suitable Car tor tle
Stock and Station Agents, Hotelkeeper and Squatter, and the Run About tor the
how it ig the “CHALMERS” is acknowledged as the best Car
for Country Work? —Because they are high-powered, light, yet strongly built, and
cost very little for upkeep. ,
Refer to any of our Clients with respect to upkeep, and they will tell you how
they get from 6000 miles to 8000 miles on their tyres, and average 25 miles to
the gallon of petrol. Ask them what their repair bill has been. We know their
facts justify the “CHALMERS” in being named the Champion Country
Car.
Let us post you a 1912 Catalogue. , . . . iiCS ,
New Shipment of 1012 model U CHA.L]VIERS Cars due this week on the Star
of Australia.”
“EMPIRE” Run-abouts, 20 h.p., four cylinders, three speeds, forward
and reverse. “ GRAMM ” WAGGONS in Stock.
ROY W. SANDFORD.
181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY; 105 EXHIBITION ST.,
Sole Agent 'for
Australia.,
MELBOURNE.
PR.ESER.VE YOUR BEAUTY.-*
The Australian Climate is noted for its deleterious effects upon the complexion ;
freckles, “muddiness,” pimples and blemishes are likely to make_ their ap-
pearance unless something is done as a deterrent. There is nothing ime
ICILMA Fluor Cream,
the “face cream without grease,” for keeping the skin healthy and beautiful. It
is the product of natural mineral waters in Algeria, and is therefore rightly
named “NATURE’S REMEDY.” A little rubbed on the face BEFORE going
out assists nature to preserve that wonderful velvety condition that is every
woman’s aim and pride. All Chemists, 2/- per pot. Sample tube, 3d. in stamps.
ICILMA DEPOT, Dept. D, 159 York Street, Sydney.
CROWN
6/6 Watch.
wonderful tiling about tbe
Ingersoll Watcb is not its price.
The wonderful thing is its
ACCURACY at a price so far below
what you must pay for accuracy in
any other watch. Ingersoll watches
are the timepieces of 20,000,000
people —peop'e in every walk of life,
but people who judge a watch solely by
its timekeeping accuracy and not by
the amount of money it represents.
Have you a watch you can depend
upon ? If not, get a fully Guaran-
teed Ingersoll.
Crown 6/6, Eclipse 8/6,
Junior 10/6, Midget 10/Q.
The Jewelled Trenton Watch offers the same
security and saving to the buyer in high grade
■watches that the Ingersoll does in the low-priced
class. Prices from 30/- upwards.
It you cannot obtain a genuine guaranteed Inger-
soll or Trenton Watch locally, do not accept a
substitute, but write us for name of nearest dealer.
Robt. H. Ingersoll & Bro.,
73 L YORK ST., SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed,
Pens,
Seven
Prize Medals.
3
Works :
Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention 's also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
HORSE GAGS.
SHARPE’S GAGS are made from American design, in Sheffield, of Steel.
Are heavily Nickel-plated, and complete with TWO PAIRS of
PLATES and BRIDLE.
Are the most PRACTICAL, STRONGEST, and DURABLE GAGS on
the market.
ertrytuyuyu
Can be released by hand when
horse’s jaws are pressing the
plates.
Afford ample exposure for EX-
AMINATIONS and Operations.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
WRITE FOR KNIFE & YET. LIST.
SHARPE S SHARPE,
ertrytuyuyu
40/9
Post Free,
18 Bridge Street
SYDNEY.


The Permanent
Removal of
Superfluous Hair.
A Lady Will Give You Her Secret Free.
ertrytuyuyu
For years I have searched for a simple
and satisfactory way to remove superfluous
hair from the skin, so that it would not re-
turn. Experiments proved to me that the
various pastes, powders, depilatories, elec-
trical appliances, etc., now on the market
are often injurious, and not lasting in their
effects. At last I discovered a plan which
succeeded in producing marvellous permanent
results where all others failed. A fashion-
able Parisian lady who followed my advice
says : “My face is now soft and smooth, and
no one would ever think it had been dis-
figured by a growth of superfluous hair.”
Others write: “It seems too good to be true.”
Well, the test will tell. No matter how
much or how little superfluous hair is on your
face, neck, arms or body, I am confident that
you can now remove it permanently, and
with perfect safety. I will send full infor-
mation regarding the secret of my discovery
absolutely free to every woman who writes
at once, but this offer is limited to a short
time only, so do not delay if you wish to bene-
fit free. Address, KATHRYN B. FIRMIN
(Dept. 631 E), 85 Great Portland Street,
London W., Eng., and you will receive full
particulars by return post in a plain sealed
envelope.
S "THE MODERN”
•1 AUTOMATIC SELF FILLING.
A.A.WATtRMAN iCO. NEW YORK.
PAT. NOV. 17,03. A OCT 11,04.
' <(- ■
Turn
This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
A Self-Filling Fountain
Pen—that is Different.
Users of Fountain Pens
will find the
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
Self-Filling
Fountain Pen
especially desirable for com-
mercial or home use. You
simply twist the button at
the end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen fills
itself. There are no joints,
therefore avoiding any
danger of soiling the fin-
gers or clothing. Costs
no more than the ordinary
fountain pen. Made in both
plain and fancy holders,
with a variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd ,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents lor
Australasia.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write for trade prices.
They will interest you.
If it isn’t an “ A.A.” it
Isn’t a “ MODERN.’’
ertrytuyuyu
4 GRAND PRIX
PARIS ST LOUIS
TURiN ROUBAIX
The Celebrated
. . V
Pianos
THB
BEST PIANO
for tha
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99=101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
ertrytuyuyu
k„ lime
.
The Drink for Men
and women and children, bless them.
Innocent without mawkishness,
Montserrat Lime Juice is the
pure product of the culti-
vated lime.
Supplied in two forms ;
Unsweetened, P urc L'me
Juice. Sweetened, i.e., Lime
Juice Cordial.
Sold by all leading Storekeepers.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS
ertrytuyuyu
See the Passing'Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin—thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price 1/-,
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
most
viciou s
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
niffht - watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
ertrytuyuyu
dog. Files and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Beloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
p o 3tal Address—BOX 3, HAYMARKET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
Branches—lll KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
11l
;
it — tags
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/-.
Do not miss this cliance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
ertrytuertrytuyuyuyuyu
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
novelties obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
ONOTO
BRITAIN’S GREATEST WRITER:
Charles Dickens
1812-1870.
Words alone —even when joined together with the
greatest skill—can never tell the wonderful story of
the ONOTO. Its daily use by thousands alone can
tell its tale. A perfect writing implement, it never leaks,
and it fills itself.
A British-made fountain pen, —guaranteed by its
makers.
Price at all stationers, jewellers, etc., 12/- and
upwards.
Booklet about it free on application to Thos.
De la Rue & Co., Ltd., 389 Bunhill Row,
London, E.C.,or the Australasian Repre-
sentative, Norman Baker,
50 York Street, Sydney.
CANT
B
SEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
[/■EACH POST FREE)
(Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SiMIVIONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers * tobacconists
SHOULD SEND FOR OCR TRADE UST
QREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and givingToneand
Brilliance to the Com-
W plexion. It is most
Hk beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
s' in<r a tendency to
■ become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
I a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Wg Posted 3/- Obtain-
Hr able from MADAME
W LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
_ 23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale : DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
.vff
SMOKE MY CIGARS
U4A/W,
IMPERIALS ... 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 „
DIADEMAS ... 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6
INFANTAS ... 17/6
LEVUCAS 15/6 „
Remit amount with order, and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges paid, to any part of Australia.
Money returned in full if buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or six cigars.
When ordering, say whether you like a mild,
medium, or full flavor.
Illustrated descriptive Booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE.
The March—
Edison Records
The New Edison Records for March
are now on sale at all dealers, and they
comprise some particularly fine num-
bers which will appeal to you.
Amberol (4-minute) and Standard
(2-minute) are listed, and we will be
pleased to send you full details. Your
local dealer can supply you, and will
play over any of the items you would
care to hear.
Now that the winter season is not so
very far distant you should avail your-
self of this opportunity of adding a few
extra Records to your collection.
Write for complete lists.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., Successors to
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
(WHOLESALE ONLY), DEPT. 8.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
lJlfi
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by all Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
ertrytuyuyu
ATMOSLITE
AIR-GAS.
The ATMOSLITE
AIR-GAS Machine is
absolutely safe, ex-
tremely simple, auto-
matic, and maintains
the light at a steady,
even pressure, unaf-
fected by varying at-
mospheric conditions.
Best for heating, cook-
ing, and power.
Write for literature
—instructive and in-
teresting—to-day.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.'
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney. ,
Elizabeth St., MelbourneJ
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIUMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAK-
£” TES. So d hi all Chemists.


y
A WELL CHOSEN GIFT
Waterman’s
( Ideal 1
Fountain Pen
Cement fr endships already formed, and do
» good tu n to those you del ght to honou ,
by offering, as your glad token of esteem,
the Wor! J-renowned Waterman’s Ideal
In 4 Styles —Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6
(and upwards; Safety and Pump-Fiiling,
1 5/- and upwards.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
A Guaranteed Remedy for all
descriptions •of Piles, whether Blind,
Bleeding, Protruding or Itching—is
PETERS’ a «
PILE CURE
Price 1/3 0 0 Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity), 5/-
1 CONSIDER IT WONDERFUL.
Miss E. A. White, Burwood, writes: —
“Having been a great sufferer from Piles
I decided to try Peters’ Pile Cure
and am pleased to state with great suc-
cess. I consider it wonderful, and
wish I had known of it long before.”
Peters’ Pile Cure is Easy to
Apply.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following-
Usual Price. Sale Price
loading
Double-Barrelled, Breech
Guns, engine-turned rib. left, bar-
rel fu}l choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial .. .. .. £5
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill;at lOO.vds. Trial .. ..8
•Single-Barrel, Hanunerless, Breech-
loading Gnus,choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast, cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial
special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0 0
Manser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 390yds. Trial . . .. 15 o
6 £3 12 6
0 5 10 0
3 10 0 1 17
10 0
13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
vSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers -
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S 1
iree Witches
CIGARETTES
for
PtftOV
HIGHEST GRADE,
is per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. , - r . - - "
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiole.
HAS MONEY TO ®. n Security or Freehold or Leasehol I
_ . isa ' City or Suburban Properties, or on
C < Combin Pastoral and Agricultural Lands or on the Security
? r f i°. v n er < .'+T + t," Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus
tralian States or New Zealand PST* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of reoavinc
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors— The Hon. A. YY. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputv-Chairman • Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hm. F.E. Winchcomhe, M.L.C.;
nn AS r i?, n ivnox - k.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee. F.1.A.. F.F.A. FS S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. w. \I>PEIU.Y, S cr-ta y.
V
JUST
IN
TIME
77
6m4 -
The
Good
Samaritan
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS and COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES
Will Anprade ™ BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/6 ; Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden's
Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Wrestling Instructor, with 60 Photographic
Illustrations, 1/9; Bag Punching, lOd. ; Road Map of Victoria, 1/1 ; Sign,
Carriage and Decorative Painting, 2/0 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks,
illustrated, 6d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2* Gold Hunter’s Adventures in
Australia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Betters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1 ; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1 ; Sixle< n Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 ftther Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; flow to Teach
Anintal Tricks, 1/1;: What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 ; Dr, Faulkner’s Original, Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/0, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, If;‘House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; ,3000 Priceless. - Secrets, 1/8;/ Irish
Wm~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiib Bulletin.
Jokes and Witty Savings, 9d. ; Complete
Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen', 1/;
Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
Above prices include postage to anv address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do
csmouees 2 QI Bourke St., Melbourne.
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, *witb the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction ; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. But there is one supremely effectual remedy,
but for which the world would have been a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopoeia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
for more than a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
9,
€ 7 >
tJ?
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can't tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, (jo not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. \ r ou may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is Cl (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.— Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you nffiit register it.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
ertrytuyuyu
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
J2a
W 4?
M D'L
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name 2®
ertrytuyuyu


Our Special Snaps
B
THE SILENCER ITSELK
' C -° C .O O
THE SILENCER TAKEN APART.
THE B.S.A. RIFLE SILENCER, as above, to
fit the B.S.A. Miniature Rifles 22 cal., also Win-
chester Rifles, 1902, 1904 and 1906 M0de15......
Price, 32/6 each.
Postage 9d. N.S.W., 1/2 Inter-State.
THE B.S.A. RIFLE SHOWN OPPOSITE HAS A
SILENCER FITTED.
Send for our
Illustrated
SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO
LISTS, FREE.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
CO.’S D.8.8.L,
GUN, 12-gauge, top
rib, rebounding locks,
LESTON DALY
So“«, Sw fori-eid, rStor 'crip, walQut stock; weight about^
gam e 7 as above, ™ W£
-feasa-
BS A. MINIATURE RIFLE, No. 2 MODEL,
22-calibre, bolt action, self-cocking, 24in.
round steel barrel; length overall 41in.;
weight, about 541 b.; screw adjusting icai
cip-br to °OO vards barlevcorn front sieht, walnut stock ....32/6
Slgllt to -UU jams, R . fle> g/g Ngw . . 4/2 Tnter-State.
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE RIFLE, No. 3 MODEL, same
make as No. 2 Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights
Freight paid J '"
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE REPEAT NO RIFLE, 22-calibre;
same description as No. 3 Model I reiglit paid 7/-
Head Depot. HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney : Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. '
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
Improved Bellows and fasteners
$-
Duwauioog vjJWjjJf m
iiliiiitii!
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection ;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem- of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT (Si SON, 137-9 King' Street, Sydney.
■m»m
e
c
■
m
V/ON,
THE good name of the mother country is
bound up in AVON MOTOR TYRES.
The home folk who run their cars on
AVONS are not looking any more for the per-
rfect tyre, because the manufacture of A\ ONS,
always at the top notch of modernity, is conducted on the
principle that not the most scientific machinery can make silk
purses out of soavs’ ears; that the strength, endurance and
speediness demanded of the motor tyre must be derived tiom
material of the finest, deftly handled.
Other Specialties of this Firm include—
MECHANICAL RUBBER FOR. RAILWAYS.
Avon Buffer and Drawbar Springs, Brake Materials, Body Sittings,
Valves, Hose, etc., specially adapted for use in the tropics. Contrac-
tors to the principal State Railways.
CYCLE and MOTOR CYCLE TYRES
With special Rubber Treads in several grades, made especially to
withstand the effects of hot climates.
FOR MOTOR CYCLE COVERS Clinched-on
A special combination of Rubber and Steel Studs placed alternately
round the tread. Hexagon rubber-studded, round rubber-studded
and fluted patterns. Thick tough treads and extra stiong casings.
SOLID TYRES FOR MOTORS, etc.
4von Band Tyres for passenger ’buses and other heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on sections from 2sin. to sin., suitable for the lighter type
of motor vehicles up to 2-ton vans. Solid tyres lor Carriages, Cabs,
Rickshaws, etc.
golf balls
Made up on a special centre which forms the nucleus for the wind-
ing of Para tape. This arrangement produces a ball which flies very
true, and is especially suitable for expert players.
AVON BALL, 2/= each; NOVA BALL, 1/3 each.
Cable Codes: “ABC sth Edition” and “Western Union.”
AVON INDIA ROBBER CO. LTD..
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
IllTr
VV'OvNSNS
m.
IMHUdSj
l 4
\\m mm\\
.i]iinfra» _ _
T
kt
s
ertrytuyuyu
- pure., desd,#ready insfayfly.
BECAUSE Australia is a land of great tic
and wide distances, our national thirst
great and the cost of transport h«
why “SPARKLETS’* are found in
of the Continent. They provide
o/maKing sparKling drinKs in a
wherever water may be found
SYPHONS s 6/6 (Si 47-
heat
is
is
That
corner
means


NDIGESTION
cans
TORTURED BY TERRIBLE PAINS IN THE
CHEST. SIDE AND UNDER THE HEART.
BILE BEANS SDCCESSFDL AFTER
MANY TREATMENTS FAIL.
FURTHER powerful evidence to the
wonderful curative and health re-
storing virtues of Bile Beans is af-
forded in the case of Mrs. Hannah
Coppock, of 45 Barry Street, South Yivrra,
Melbourne, who says: ”1 used to be a ter-
rible sufferer from indigestion in its most
severe form. I was tortured with pains
all over my body, those in the back and
side and under the heart being excruciat-
ing. After a meal I would be doubled up
with pains in the chest, and it would be
agonising to breathe. At nights I could r
not sleep at all. My sister used to sit up J
with me, and I used to get such bad turns E
I thought I was going to die. My appe-
tite was very erratic; at one time I would not be able to eat enough;
at another even the sight of food would make me sick. I grew feeble
m health, and fell away in flesh till I became but the shadow of mj
former self. Thus for two years I was a perfect stranger to health.
I tried everything I could possibly think of, read about, or that
was recommended to bring me relief, but I might as well have thrown
my money away, because all the so-called remedies I proved abso-
lutel y useless in my case. Finally, I thought I would try Bile Beans.
After the first few doses of. this splendid medicine, I became con-
scious that. they were effecting a vast improvement in my condition.
Ihe pains in the chest and under the heart eased wonderfully, and a
natural appetite with power to digest my food was promoted. Per-
severing in a thorough course of Bile Beans, my health and spirits
daily improved, and when C had completed the second box of this
splendid medicine my complete recovery was assured. I consider Bile
Beans restored me to health in a wonderful manner, and, although it
is eight years since Bile Beans cured me, I have not had a day’s
illness to speak of since—powerful proof, indeed, in favor of the thor-
oughness of Bile Beans.”
Mrs. Coppock, who tells of her ji
wonderful cure by Bile Beans L
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Bile Beans are a splendid tonic for all who
feel weak, weary and worn-out. Bile Beans
rouse the liver and stomach, and generally
tone up the system. Bile Beans are a great
remedy for headache, constipation, bilious-
,ness, liver trouble, indi-
gestion, lassitude, debil-
ity, “ that tired
feeling,’’piles, bad
breath, lack of
energy, vomiting,
ansemiaand female
ailments. Sold by
all stores and
chemists. 1/1J and
2/9 per box.
I
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
have YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty Hy your skin and
complexion* If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on footH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe sKin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
hest tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty* THere
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years#
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Granny Discovers Another
Tiger.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For a moment, civilised, law-abiding society is
disconcerted when a section of it reverts to the tiger
stage, and springs savagely to rend and destroy with
tooth and claw. — Melbourne Argus.
'T'HAT’S him!! The authentic, identi-
cal beast!
The Unionist tiger, full brother to “Sosh” !
I know by the prowl of him.
Hark to the growl of him,
While all the people ejaculate “Gosh!
Just look at him glarin’ an’ starin’, by
thunder!
Now each for himself and the weakest goes
under.”
Beware this injurious, furious brute;
He’s ready to rend you with tooth and
with claw.
Though ’tis incredible,
Anything edible
Disappears suddenly into his maw ;
Into his cavernous inner interior
Vanishes ev’rytliing strictly superior.
My dears, I’ve autoptical, optical proof
That’s he’s prowling and growling at
large in the land.
Hear his pestiferous
Clamor vociferous,
Urging to war his belligerent band !
Talk about Circe and —who’s this—Ulysses !
Never was monster so monstrous as this is.
I’ve watched his abdomenous, ominous shape
Abroad in the land while the nation has
slept,
Marked his satanical
Methods tyrannical;
Rigorous, vigorous vigil I kept.
He has wicked designs on all right-thinking
people!
Proclaim it aloud from the housetop and
steeple!
He lays his corrodible, odible plans
While cutely disguising his ultimate
claims.
Into your auricle
Words oratorical
He will declaim with ulterior aims.
And if as a foe he should happen to spot us,
One gulp—and his great epiglottis has got
us!
The tremulous, emulous workers he snares
By most reprehensible, tensible schemes.
Slyly insidious,
Vileiy invidious
Are his designs to encourage their dreams.
But watch, when they’re under his dominant
digit,
His finical, cynical smile as they fidget.
The shockingly punitive, unitive means
He uses to battle with enterprise private
Are indefensible,
Quite reprehensible.
Lord only knows what at last he’ll arrive
at!
And when he has swallowed the whole of the
nation
He’ll probably start on self-assimilation.
He scoffs at convenient, lenient laws —
He’d scoff every toff in the House known
as Upper
If he’d a precedent;
Every resident
In the best suburbs would serve him for
supper.
Good gracious, voracious is hardly the name
for it!
Yet we have only our blindness to blame for
it.
For mark, his insidious, hideous creed
He propagates even ’mid grocers and
drapers,
And they give ear to it,
Bow, and adhere to it
’Spite all the capers of well-informed
papers.
For e’en with the aid of a lens omphaloptic
They can’t see the glare in his obdurate
optic.
Then ’ware this obstreperous, leperous beast!
A treacherous wretch, for I know him of
old.
I'm on the track of him,
Close at the back of him,
Tight on his tail I have taken a hold.
And if I gave over my earnest endeavor,
The nation were lodged in his larynx for
ever.
It’s him!! The authentic, identical beast!
I know him “The Unionist,” brother to
“Sosh” !
See how I’m holding him,
Nagging and scolding him,
While he is yearning his betters to squash ;
Yearning and burning to snare the superior
Into his roomy and gloomy interior.
VICTOBIA.
DEN.
Long Beer’s Little Love Affair.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN an educated Maori decides
that the old way is best, his rever-
sion is termed “a return to the
blanket.” Generally, this retrogression
affects nobody but himself, and he settles
down to the squalid life without hindrance.
But this is not always the case.
In his prime, Mohitane lived the full-
blooded life. When ennui gripped him he
collected his braves and swept down on Pov-
erty Bay, obliterating the hated pakeha,
and leaving devastation in his track. But,
as age crept on him, he found this diversion
trite. So he founded a religion. It was an
original creed, a compound of the Bible, an
expurgated translation of some of Shaks-
peare’s works, and a pamphlet entitled
“Health, and How to Obtain It.” Mohi-
tane guaranteed that belief in his creed
would cure any ailment, moral or physical.
As every Maori suffers from iome disability,
the religion boomed like a salted goldmine.
Before becoming one of the elect, each
would-be adherent had to endow the founder
with his worldly possessions. When Hori
Grey sent a commissioner from Auckland to
investigate, the inquirer found that the old
chief had acquired the greater part of Pov-
erty Bay, and was beginning to encroach
on the Bay of Plenty. The commissioner
reckoned that within 12 months Mohitane
would possess the whole of the North Island.
At this juncture, the religion exploded like
an over-inflated balloon, and the decrepit
land shark died.
Harry Moliitane’s early manhood was
what the missionaries call a “splendid ex-
ample.” At 10 years of age he was an un-
tamed savage, at 10 a collegiate school boy,
at 28 an M.D. of London University. His
heritage, the fruit of Mohftaue’s short-
lived religion, enabled him to dally in soci-
ety. His manner, combined with his color
and affluence, made him a lion. Harry was
30 when he married a maiden whose life,
with the exception of one London season,
had been spent within convent walls. The
wedding was the sensation of a day. Two
years later nostalgia got a grip on the
Maori’s soul. At night he dreamed of
tangis and hakas and of the cannibal orgy
—Mohitane’s last —the scenes of which had
been clean cut on his child’s mind. Loung-
ing in Bond-street, he craved for the stench
of decaying conger and the fragrance aris-
ing from long dead shark. There was quite
“a distinguished gathering” to' see the trav-
ellers off at Southampton. Photographs of
the scene appeared in the weekly papers.
Long Beer Cayley came to on the Auck-
land wharf. His clothes testified to fre-
quent impact with the earth’s surface, his
hat had evidently been used as a pillow,
and the glory of his once white vest was
dimmed by the exuberance of his potations.
But Long Beer did not care. For at last
he was sober. During half an hour’s con-
valescence, he reviewed the tragedy of 30
dizzy days. The jag had had its genesis
when the All Star Comic Opera Co. boarded
the Mongonui at Sydney. For Cayley there
was but one star. At Auckland he had
chucked his job and left the steamer in a
cab, with six months’ savings and his par-
ticular ballet girl. For 14 days he lived
the hashish life. In the end, the astral
effulgence had gone out like a snuffed
candle, and he was faced by an angry
woman with a gilded admirer' hovering in
the background. Thereafter he viewed life
through the blurred lens of the beer-sodden.
A thorough dredging of the receptacles
where cash was wont to lurk revealed to
Long Beer that there was a serious deficit.
He went up town. At the Amalgamated
Shipping Company’s office the superintend-
ing engineer received him with suppressed
joy. The Beautiful Belle was without a
second engineer. Cayley was the very man
for the job. An hour afterwards, with port-
manteau in hand, Long Beer staggered up
the gangway of the ancient iron tank. He
was met by the “chief” and a deluge of bad
language. Conk McKenzie and Long
Beer were old shipmates, and Conk gave
49. highly embellished reasons why Cayley
was a crimson fool to imperil his sacred per-
son on the unbeautiful Belle. Leaving the
engines out of the question—and they were
the rottenest that ever disgraced the bowels
of a ship—the old tub was but a tempor-
arily floating coffin. A sledge hammer would
knock a hole in any of its plates. A decent
sea would send it to the bottom. Its boats
leaked like sieves. To add to the gaiety of
the job, the criminal who mismanaged the
concern expected the engineers to give a
hand with the surf boats. Only a dependent
grandmother deterred Conk from telling
the Jew-ridden company to go to Hades for
its engineers.
Late in the afternoon the Belle waddled
out of port. From the bridge the “old man”
glared with beer-glazed eyes at the scenery.
Down below, Long Beer and McKenzie tink-
ered with the wheezy machinery, and cursed
the ship, the company and each other. They
did not curse the firemen because of the
statute which does not allow engineers to
be impolite to the shovellers of coal.
It was an uneventful trip. So said Bel-
lingham, the stout purser. At Maira the
surf flung the boat ashore bottom up. When
things were sorted out it was found that the
second mate had a fractured collarbone.
Thereafter, Long Beer went in charge. As
the Belle steamed in to Waiwera Bay the
“old man” came down from the bridge and
implored Cayley, “For God’s sake, be careful
with Haere Mohitane. He’s one of our best
customers, and the wealthiest nigger in the
Island. If you open your mouth, he’ll re-
port you and there’ll be hell to pay. He’s
got a big pull with the company and the
Government, and just about runs this
blasted part of the earth.”
Haere’s residence was the feature of Wai-
wera Bay. It was a palatial edifice, with a
tiled roof and a wide balcony, situated on a
small hill surrounded by dense bush. About
half a mile away the kainga polluted the at-
mosphere with a hundred conflicting smells.
Cayley was received by a bloated poten-
tate, supported by a retinue of disreputable
natives and one white man. The white man
carried a chair upon which the chief seated
himself near the water’s edge. And through-
out the sweltering day, as Long Beer and
his men dragged bales of wool from drays
backed into the surf, Haere’s tongue trifled
with the obscenities of half a dozen lan-
guages. Occasionally refreshments were
brought back from the big house to sustain
the huge and flabby mass. The white man
brought them.
At Gisborne the Belle turned northward,
and, usually, returned direct to Auckland.
It was clear of the roadstead when Cayley
climbed up from the engine-room, and in the
narrow alleyway jostled against the purser
and a lady. Bellingham was issuing a
ticket. When Cayley apologised, the purser
introduced him to the lady. Long Beer real-
ised that never had he imagined such beauty
as this woman possessed. Certainly he had
never seen it. She was the woman beauti-
ful, but with traces of much mental suffer-
ing. Their eyes met, over the purser’s head,
and then Long Beer stumbled out into the
sunlight. The red blood raced through his
veins. It was quite 10 minutes before he
remembered that the purser had introduced
her as Mrs. Haere Mohitane.
It was a swift love-making even for the
coast, where things happened swiftly. Fate,
seemingly, had made them so that they
were mutually attractive, and then, when
(Continued on stage //!/.)


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS WEAK?
Thousands Have Kidney Trouble and Never Know It?
Weak and unhealthy kidneys are responsible for more sickness
and suffering than any other disease ; therefore when, through
neglect or other causes, kidney trouble is permitted to continue,
fatal results are sure to follow. Your other organs may need
attention—but your kidneys most, because they do most and
need attention first. If you are sick or “feel badly,” begin
taking Doan’s Backacke Kidney Pills, the great kidney and
bladder remedy, because as soon as your kidneys are well they
will help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone. The advice of friends, of neighbors, of Sydney people
is good, for Sydney testimony is easily proven.
Two Lasting Cures*
Mrs. Watson, 210 Denison Street, Camperdown,
Sydney, says: “My husband has used Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills with excellent results. He has been
suffering with backache for years. He has to work
among horses, and it came very hard on him at times.
He used lots of medicines, but none of them did him
any lasting good. However, two bottles of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured him. We think the
world of this excellent remedy.”
When asked about his cure seven years later, Mr.
Watson says: “I have never suffered with my back
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me seven
years ago. These Pills are a positive cure for back-
ache.”
Mr. W. James, A’Beckett Street, Granville, says:
“I strained my back when I was quite a lad, and ever
since I have suffered greatly f ro m backache. I tried
all kinds of remedies, but only got temporary relief.
My work used to be very laborious, and I have had
to leave it at times on account of the intense pain.
However, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured the
backache and strengthened my back. I always tell
friends who suffer from bad backs to try Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills ; they are certain to give relief. It
is two years since I used the pills, so my cure has
been well tested.”
"Gvery
Picture
Tells !
V Sto r±
\
■r'
X
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists, and
Stores. 2/p per bottle
(six bottles , ijls) / or
from Foster-McClellan
C 076 Pitt St., Sydney.
convention had erected its barrier, flung
them together. Cayley’s virility was a chal-
lenge to her womanly vigor; his ugliness a
natural foil to her beauty. But their atti-
tude towards the affair was different. Cay-
ley was drunk with love. The lady was in
love with love. To Cayley’s pleading she
listened, but remained firm. Her convent
training stood to her then. That and the
memory of Waiwera Bay. As the night
waned into morning, she spoke of Mohitane
and his mode of living.
In three months Cayley saw his lady
three times. Each time the Belle swung
into the bay he volunteered for service in
the boat, and each time he evaded Haere’s
amenities, and went up to the big house.
The lady was gracious, but unpliable.
Then one day when the Belle lay at the
Auckland wharf a note came for the engi-
neer. She could stand it no longer. Mohi-
tane had added wife-beating to his other
accomplishments. The lady begged Cayley
to take her away. Horses would be in readi-
ness, and when the steamer appeared, she
would wait for Cayley in the clump of bush
at the end of the beach.
All night the Belle lay hove to in Wai-
wera Bay. Green seas smashed against her
ancient sides and flooded her decks. In the
dingy saloon, Cayley, Bellingham and the
skipper handled a pack of greasy cards.
Cayley played a rotten game. Dawn re-
vealed to leeward a mile of turbulent water
ending in a line of impassable breakers. One
glance satisfied the “old man.” As the Belle
turned to the open sea, Long Beer, in singlet
and pants, slipped over the side. About 10
years later, as it seemed, the surf gripped
him.
* * * *
On a Plymouth-bound steamer a lady sat
planning her future. It was a pleasant
occupation, and supplied the touch of color
which consummated her perfect beauty. Her
letter would apprise her lover of the sudden
death of Mohitane and her departure. The
convent training had triumphed, and she
had resolved to wait the conventional period,
and then be married decently and in order
to a new Cayley—one wearing a top hat and
the complete garb of civilisation.
Meanwhile the sharks in Waiwera Bay
fought over a man’s body.
W. R. SINCLAIR.
The Red Pearl of Torres.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MATSUME, number one diver of the
True Blue pearling fleet, had made
much Australian money. This,
as behoves the men of the Rising Sun,
he was taking—along with certain valuable
information re the soundings of the Barrier
Reef, by the next trip of the Nikko Maru to
Japan. It was his last day of diving. The
tender had unscrewed his helmet. Still in
his lead-bottomed boots and diving dress, he
sat on the afterhatch, smiling slant-eyed at a
pearl of many moneys agleam in the hollow of
his hand.
Dai Butsu (he of good fortune) had bowed
to him. This was his third big pearl. At
sunset he would up-sail for AVaiben (Thurs-
day Island) and next Wisteria would find
him flying war-kites in Kioto. So he
gloated. And meanwhile the south-east
trade wind drave past the point and lurched
the lugger to port. The pearl slid from his
hand, leapt the microscopic ledge, then
sprang through many fathoms of profound
blue, to the coral silence that beds the
Straits.
They screwed on his helmet and he went
down after it. In less than 20 minutes
Peter, the Rotumali tender, drew him up,
dead, with the pearl blood-streaked in his
hand.
Which was the finding....
Santiago, the Manila man, split Peter
Rotumali’s skull with a mangrove block and
set sail for the Dutch East Indies.
His crew of little black Jews from Ki-wai
spoke out of their turn off Banda, so he
left them to rot in the lugger, tide-neaped in
a reef-bound atoll. Through hunger and
thirst and space of salt-seared silence he
crept to Singapore, and traded the pearl to
a Rajah who had all he desired save the
woman Kadijah, wife to Ah Med, the minder
of his melon patch. The wide day when a
ruler could take where he wanted had gone
with the coming of the English. So the
Rajah had enticed Kadijah with silken sar-
ongs, ruby buttons for the clasping of the
kybia, gem-wefted tissues, and jade beads to
bind the turban of the True Believer. And
it had all been without avail.
The pearl conquered—the red pearl with
its strange iridescence set in a lace-gold mesh
to glow where the purple-black hair parted
before it curved to hang in two braids thick
as a fighter’s fore-arm. For, more than all,
pearls love blood and beautiful women, and
especially they love those of the ivory skin
and the brown.
*' * * *
It was night. Ah Med of the melon
patch climbed amongst the poinsianas that
flamed before the purdah in the Rajah’s
courtyard. Twice he called softly—the cry
of a homing pheasant. And again he called.
The third time he was heard. The woman
Kadijah came to the casement. lie saw. the
soft, sweet beauty of her, with the pearl
glowing opalescent against the ivory skin
where the purple-black hair parted. He saw
it silhouetted against the regal reds of the
other man’s riches. And then Ah Med, the
melon-gardener, went amok. |
Cunningly he whispered to his woman.
She leant towards him, and, making a sound
in his throat like a crooning snake, he stabbed
her thrice, and tore the pearl from where
the braids thick as a fighter’s forearm,
parted above her brows.
1 * * *
Sidora Mendoza slunk, bent-backed, down
the twisted sand-track that led from Crook
Clem’s Hell. He had much on his mind,
Ah Med, a stranger from none knew where,
after many rounds of gory cock-fights, had
. j 1 • ■ 1 ■ cKm,,,
tossed him tor a ring he (Sidoia) had stolen,
and had won it. He, in turn, had diced with
Ah Med for a pearl, gold-meshed, and lost.
And at the thought of his loss, he, too, had
gone amok.
Foully he slew Ah Med, and now he
lurked along the sand-track taking cover
where he could amongst the crotons. After
all his luck was better than he could have
hoped for. The Wicked One of Padre’s
Book led him to where the Tsinan was shov-
ing off at dawn for Torres Strait.
When Marea Nunciata, child of Aaendro,
the Manila-man leper, and a Torres Strait
gin, was a puling, pink-brown babe, the
sainted women of the Sacred Heart on
Waiben had taken her. They taught her
much good, and much that it is dangerous
for the dark folk to know. When she grew
old enough to repay some of their sacrifice
and loving kindness she ran away with old
Ignacio Sacrosant, the fisherman, who lived
in the palm patch above the sand beach on
Horn Island, and shamed them. Marea
Nunciata was not beautiful, nor even
pretty. But more compellant than any
beauty was the lure of her snaky grace, the
curve of her mouth in a smile, and the dream
in her exotic eyes, that at times glinted gold-
hazel. She danced, rose-red, and the song of
her swathed a man’s soul like the dope-odor
of frangipani in the great stillness before
the monsoon breaks.
Yarning their folk-lore round the village
fires the Torres Strait islanders have it that
monsters of the deep may not attack one
who carries a pearl. Also, that when the
pearl’s mother, the Deep Water, commands,
it comes to her call.
Sidora Mendoza slid overboard from the
rice-deeped side of the Tsinan as it steamed
slowly past Horn Island, and swam, pearl-
talismaned, through the sharks, ashore.
Quietly he made his mat amongst the Fili-
pino refugees, who gave, him freedom of the
broken hut beyond the little palm patch.
He knew nothing of pearls, but it seemed
to him that his gold-meshed gem was worth
many moneys. One big blue day he met old
Ignacio Sacrosant struggling up the beach,
dragging a net over full of fish, and helped
. P l ' After. that he kept making good by
gifts of curiously carved turtle shell, and
granadillas from the vines that rioted about
ais hut- And when the question of Why
and Whence he had come faded from the
eyes of Marea Nunciata and old Ignacio, he
sliowed them the pearl.
uu^ 10 ’. once head diver for the Q.P.F.,
tola him to ask what seemed a prodigious
price, and it one or other refused it to wait
for the rich-fool English to be found aboard
a Tap liner
The Combine scoffed at Sidora. and prof-
fered a sixth of his price. But Markan, the
Cingalee boss, and little Gueldersdorp, the
German Jew, sailed across to Horn Island
on squally nights, and entreated him to take
one five pounds, the other five hundred.
So Sidora sat down with the pearl strung
about his neck and a criss unsheathed. And
*all the while the gem called to Marea Nun-
ciata.
For two weeks, once a year, the great
salmon fish, on their way west, rest in the
cool deeps below the little sand stretch. It
is a glad time. That season it was especially
so, for men of all nations came to the fish-
ing. After “Lights Out’’ from the Forts the
boats creep ghosting across the dark waters
All through the stifling night the flotillas
brood in shadowy silence, snapped once in the
while by a deep-breathed “Hiya” as a sal-
mon fish swirls past in a silver streak and
homes in some Japanese sampan, or the
whole-souled curse of Gunner Schlatts as
the tiger shark rips half his salmon as he
plays it in.
Nine hours so, till the sun-spear hisses
from the Edge through the drab damps that
rise in the miasma from Black Rock to the
Seven Wrecks, and the young south-east
wind shrills up the shipway and sends the
fleet scurrying, wet-sailed, through the tido-
rip.
Before the fishing, nightly, there is drink
and the devil. In Marea Nunciata’s time
she was always called to do the dance of the
Scarlet Snake. Serpentine, she rippled and
swayed to the strange sixths of Mendoza’s
mandoline, the rose-purple mist enswathing
her, her Shadowy curvings blood-black before
the brazed cymbal of the tropic moon, and
the souls of men snuffling her steps like
swine.
The eve of the last fishing, also the eve of
the arrival of the Jap finer with its rich-
fool English, Ignacio made a pact with
Marea Nunciata. “To-night,” he said, “is
the last dancing. Speak witli Sidora Men-
doza that he lend thee his pearl. Later, to
the fishing I, thou and he will go in his
quick-sailing dinghy. In the black dark be-
fore day, call, sudden, to him. He comes!”
Ignacio’s little pig-eyes narrowed: “I knife
him, caramba!”
As Sidora came to the dancing, Nunciata,
with a coronet of chrome scarlet poinsianas
aflame in the Hades of her hair, was on the
beach in the dusk beneath the frangipanies.
Speaking no word, they saw the waters of
Torres deepen through wondrous blues till
they glowed an imperial purple against the
jade glimmer of the Outer Isles. A native
drum throbbed, somnolent, in the scented
silence. Her eyes, that glowed gold-hazel,
gazed into his with the wide child-look that
veiled their stagnant deeps.
“Lend me thy pearl,” she cooed, soft-
sweetly; “thy little pearl. I have nothing
save this scarlet sarong. Antoine, the half-
caste, who thinks that she can dance, has
rings for her fingers, and bracelets, and
beads.”
Kissing him full on the lips, she un-
clasped the slender chain that strung the
pearl, and with the little laugh of a child
attaining its chief desire, she fastened it
about her throat.
In the black dark before day Ignacio was
knifed. But in falling he caught at the
pearl on Marea Nunciata’s neck, and carried
it with him full 50 fathoms to the broken
coral that beds beneath the Strait.
SIDNEY S. SEVERN.


The
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
ertrytuyuyu
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention:
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Let us Quote YOU
for your
Engineering Supplies.
Packings Oils and Greases Steam Valves Engineers’ Tods
Jointings Boiler Fluid Water Valves Twist Drills, Emery Grinders
Beltings Paints Injectors Feed Pumps
Quality the Best ! Prices the Lowest ! I Centrifugal Pumps.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
WE HAVE EXCELLED
in the storage and removal of furniture—and it is because we are now so thoroughly
expert that your time and money is saved by placing your order in our hands.
Our ’Phone numbers are : City 1290, Central 476, 2028, 4012.
Sanders, Sutton & Whitehead Ltd.
REMOVAL and STORAGE EXPERTS,
Head Office— 43 King: Street, Sydney.
DEPOTS: Dulwich HHI, Chatswood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Kograrah, Parramatta and Manly.
ertrytuyuyu
Guaranteed 2 Years
This is our 2-h.p.
Hand Portable Engine.
OIL
ENGINE
Otto Four Cycle Type.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don tbe misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES.
Get prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense sale*
and this aiiows of small profits on our big turnover.
ertrytuyuyu
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small
Long Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of AH Kinds of OH Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and ail other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
MM STREET, SYDNEY; 359 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HTTHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month,
Price sixpence.
Books worth reading. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The: Lone Hand.
£ooH Well After Yourself
if you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great nun ber of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill>health is to
TaKc
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Bwchatn’s pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price Ilt\ (56 pills) <£ 219 (168 pills).
BUSINESSMEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St-, Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. frfd. McWilliam. Manager
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Dinnefords
Magnesia
JIMHaMdiH
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tation s purchasers
must see that
"Oinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Heartburn. Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious AjWfcfons.
THE HENDRYX PATENT AGITATOR.
m
wmm.
THE LAST WORD
in
Cyanide
Treatment
Plants.
-
Reduces time of treat-
ment to absolute mini-
mum.
Tests on various ores
have shown that with
this plant the same ex-
f traction can be obtained
k in one hour as is possi-
ble in 24 hours with
other types of plant.
Sands and Slimes may
be treated together
with excellent results.
Write us for quota-
tion and particulars.
Australian Mapres&ntatives:
ertrytuyuyu
‘A3NQAS
*JL33ttIS
Loaal Agents:
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
S^,r NE n : Diamond Lubricating & Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane,
BRISBANE: Dean & Collin, 335 Queen Street.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Kire-Piroof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK. LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Wtllans & Robinson, Limited,
E
nor • • •
lectrical Generators,'
lowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
ertrytuyuyu
• •
For.
High Pressure
and
Mixed Pressure Steam.
AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. [3
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALAU.
TRADIc.
ertrytuyuyu
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole «
Bottles.
ertrytuyuyu
VENTILATING
AND
EXHAUST
ertrytuyuyu
LARGE STOCKS
CARRIED.
Belt Driven, 12" to 54"
Electric, 12" to 24"
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt St., Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Caj &Ci
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
(MEPHAN FERGUSON
Governing Directors (
(ROBERT SHAND
Head Office and Works:
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
WARBURTON, FRA
307-11 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
454 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS:
PERFECTA CONDUIT CO., LTD.
SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LTD.
VERITY’S, LTD.
ENGINEERING INSTRUMENTS, LTD.
BERRY SKINNER, LTD.
EVERETT, EDQCUMBE, LTD.
NATIONAL TELEWRITER CO.
HAGGIE BROS.
PREMIER ACCUMULATOR CO.
MEDWAY’S SAFETY LIFT CO.
UNION CABLE CO.
N. F. RAMSAY
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD.
WHIPP & BOURNE
DANIEL ADAMSON & CO.
“KNEW” FILTERS
MONARCH VACUUM CLEANERS
PREMIER VACUUM CLEANERS
BLACKMAN SONS.
Knowles
m§
■ ;
ssRils
Single and Duplex pi«^er l Typ“ t f«— aeked
Mine Sinking, Cyanide Works, Battery
Supply, Tank Filling, Boiler Feeding, etc.
a>so ELECTRIC and POWER PUMPS.
SOLE AGENTS
... FOR ...
AUSTRALASIA
■f
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St«, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
< ■ /■.
I
.■m >-ir. - 1 • ' r.i » •
Ffrench’s Patent Process
does this with
ABSOLUTE CERTAINTY.
.
Adopted by N.S.W. Government Railways, Goldsborough, Mort 8 Co., and Leading Station Owners.
Sole Manufacturers— References to Users on Application.
* •
ertrytuyuyu
263 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
