

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION—
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites*
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
The DISCRIMINATING WORKING MAN
who would have a truly helpful loan to tide him over his present financial embarrassment, is assured of the lowest interest in
Australia, and the easiest of the easy terms when he seeks our aid. Our reputation for straightforward, above-board tran-
sactions to large and small borrowers is known everywhere. We lend from £5 upon Furniture (without removal), Jewellery,
Deeds of Land, Interests under Wills, etc., promptly.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. S I. Co.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
A
Williams’s, Whisky
ECOBj^EIT,
3BRT
fiadley’s Orient Ijotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *X.
Guarantkkd
</. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
*
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’
in*
LL«!
gfdghfhfdd
h fhfd
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECI
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
J
HANSEN’S
hfdh
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
With p ALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER'CO., 279 George Street. Sydney.
BENSDORPS
UTCH
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY,
.
‘ ** 1 * 5
*
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
WHITE MALTHOID.
Asbestos Coated (Pabco).
WHITE MALTHOID is ideal in every way. First, it
has all the virtues that are necessary for a climate like
Australia.
It is absolutely impervious to rain, storm, or hail.
It is the coolest material known for hot weather.
It is decidedly restful to the eye in the matter of
color. Furthermore, in cost it is most moderate, and
practically lasts for ever.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT 00., CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LABES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL s.v.o.
MwWay
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE.
There’s no hard work with a “New
Way ” Benzine Air-Cooled Engine.
No water-tank or piping, and it is
simple, powerful, always instantly
ready, cheap to run, and unaffected
by weather conditions. Bosch high
tension magneto ignition.
Portable and stationary from 2\ H.P.
Write for catalogue.
fdh
jlfeWtlue®
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET
(Opp. Lands Office), SYDNEY.
H ELI DOM SPA
44 It is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical man
SfA is Nature's Eliminant*
STARKEYS LTD Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney , and Redfern
The Bulletin
V01.33—N0. 1707.1
[Thursday, October 31, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOK BARGAINS.
A Fine Lot, quite hew, as published. Prices Include Postage.
Sennett: Garden Cities in Theory and Practice. 350
plates. 2 vols, 25/-, for 11/6.
Clerke: System of the Stars, 20 plates, 403 pp. 25/-,
for 9/6.
McMahon: With Byron in Italy. 60'illustrations,
from photos. 6/-, for 3/10.
McMahon: With Shelley in Italy. 64 illus. from
photos. 6/-, for 3/10.
Bismarck, Man and Statesman, written by himself.
2 Vols. 42/-, for 13/-.
Meredith: His Life and Art. Br J. A. Hammerton.
15/-, for 8/-
Amold’s Book of Good Counsels. Fables from the
Sanscrit. 5/-, for 2/0.
Balzac: Life and Works, by Lawton. 32 portraits.
18/-, for 9/6.
Marx: Capital. Improved Edition, with Notes. 10/6.
for 6/6.
Napoleon III.: Genesis of the Second Empire? 1808-
1848. By F. 11. Cheetham. 19/-, for 6/6.
ROBERTSON'S, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics
of the British Empire.
September , 1912. No. 8.
1. INDIA AND THE EMPIRE.
2. CANADA AND THE NAVY.
3. THE LABOR MOVEMENT IN AUS-
TRALIA.
4. UNITED KINGDOM— The Difficulties of
the Coalition—An Alternative Government.
5. CANADA The Naval Conference-—The Royal
Governor—Provincial General Elections.
6. AUSTRALIA— A Plea for a National Policy
—'An Australian Note on Anglo-German Rela-
tions.
7. SOUTH AFRICA The Parliamentary Ses-
sion—Ministerial ■ Dissensions—The Reconstruc-
tion of the Ministry.
8. NEW ZEALAND Closer Relations with
Australia—The Political Crisis—Compulsory
Military Training—Labor Unrest.
Price 2/6, post free to any address
within the Empire.
Obtainable from
MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED,
109 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE ; or any Bookseller.
if
99
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC and
PROPHYLACTIC.
SUITABLE FOR OLD and YOUNG,
The Medical Press and
says: “These Jujubes should be of
special service to Lecturers, Public
Singers and Speakers, and, indeed,
to all who are called upon to use
their voices frequently for prolonged
periods.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers,
»o«e
SON
vsts-tx:
Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL GO., Limited,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY. Post Free on Receipt of Stamps:
The Fictionists
The Red Page
Criticism is the history of the rise and
fall of reputations. The world of fiction is
in a continual flux, here the bubbling up of
some new individuality, there the slow fall
of some popular favorite. One sees the tre-
mendous struggles of the intruder novelists
to pass the border line from a. success with
the critics to success with the public; one
notes the pitiable efforts of the best sellers
to retain their possession by prescribing, as
near as their waning powers will permit
them, the same dose that so pleased their
readers last year; one watches here and
there some great name slowly and painstak-
ingly writing itself in more enduring charac-
ters.
Thus Corelli and Caine show r a sudden
splendid rush into the forefront of the battle
—for a while they hold their place in the
van, but now their story is a swift forcing
back into the ruck, So \\ illiam .T. Cocke
took years of novels to reach his popularity,
and with his last books we see his strength
swiftly failing, owing to his too dangerous
dependence on a single formula. Maurice
Hewlett stands still, after a few tottering
footsteps, in the high position he has won.
11. G. Wells, who has fought in more than
one company and won to leadership in all,
finds firmer foothold with each succeeding
novel. So, too, Arnold Bennett. Kipling
has collapsed tremendously, not from the
carelessness shat comes to so many success-
ful writers, but from the taking of too much
literary pains, with the inspiration of youth
gone.
J*
So, in the batch of books before us, it is
interesting to discover at what pace and in
what direction the writers are going. Take,
for instance, a new arrival, D. H. Law-
rence, author of The I White Peacock, and now
of The (Duckworth, per George
Robertson, Sydney;. His first book was a
young poet’s book, chaotic, arresting, vivid.
The Trespasser shows the chastening hand
of maturity; the story has form and pur-
pose, the characterisation is no more subtle
but more completely rounded and definite,
and the poetry with which his first book was
surcharged is also here. The story is merely
the brief romance—if you like it from the
VV owser point of view, the brief liaison—of
a middle-aged, married man with a voluptu-
ous Strindberg girl, created solely for the
nice purpose of battening on men, taking
tlieir all and giving nothing of herself. That
short holiday in the Isle of Wight occupies
almost the whole of the book. It is the love
scene in Romeo and Juliet, long-drawn-out,
depicted with extraordinary minuteness and
modern realism, suffused with poetry and in-
formed with a psychology accurate and
subtle
4.1. 1 her drf,;un was always more
than the actuality. Her dream of Siegmund
was more to her than Siegmund himself. He
might be less than her dream, which is as it
may be. However, to the real man she was
very cruei His dreams were the flowers
or ms blood. Hers were more detached and
inhuman. lor centuries a certain type of
woman has been rejecting the “animal” in
Ia <- U n T 110 w liei ' dreams are abstract,
and full ot fantasy, and her blood runs in
bondage, and her kindness is full of cruelty.
That is Helena ; and the suicide of the
man, after expulsion from that paradise of
passion, is logically inevitable. The lyrical
heights of their intercourse are indicated by
such a passage as this :
“What day is it, Siegmund?” she asked, in
a Joyous, wondering tone. He laughed, un-
derstandmg. and kissed her.
But really, she insisted, “I would not
have believed the labels could have fallen
oft every thing like this.... The days used to
walk in procession like seven marionettes,
each m order and costume, going endlessly
round... It is very strange to have the days
and nights smeared into one piece, as if the
clock-hand only went round once in a life-
time.
“That is how it is,” he admitted, touched
by her eloquence. “You have torn the labels
off everything This morning ! It does seem
absurd to talk about this morning. Why
should I be parcelled up into mornings and
evenings and nights? lam not made up of
sections of time. Now, nights and davs go
racing over us like cloud-shadows and sun-
shine over the sea, and all the time we take
no notice.
But from this .orgie of passion, lyrical
though it was. the fateful result is disillu-
sion. So the holiday comes to an end in mutual
dissatisfaction, Siegmund goes back to the
hostile, cramping environment of his out-
raged wife and family, and commits his com-
monplace suicide. The book ends with
Helena, a year later, fastening on to an-
other man, the eternal blood-sucking para-
site.
But more than for its analysis of physical
passion and for its presentation of charac-
ters that tensely live, The Trespasser is to
be noted for its pictures of nature, painted
with a post-impressionistic brush. D. H.
Lawrence is on the up-grade, and with his
fine equipment and his courage lie may reach
heights.
J*
Corra Harris, like D. H. Lawrence, writes
of life. A Circuit Rider’s Wife placed her
as one of the few realists in the United
States, that land of the made-to-order
heroine and the hero of the wholesale.manu-
facturers. Her humor, too, is sincere, with
its tap-root deep in humanity. Her Eve’s
Second Husband (Constable,, per Sydney
Book Club) reaches the high level of her
first book. It is' not necessary to
tell the plot: there is no plot. It
is just the story of a woman's life,
carried on long after the romance of
her-.youth, showing her growing fat and
large and placid-souled, and recording the
course of that dullest of streams that we
call matrimony. It is her observations on
life that give the book its final value: Corra
Harris is a philosopher who has specialised
in the feminine soul:—
It is one of the queer features of a man’s
stupidity that he never can see a woman cry
without being guilty of the sacrilege of try-
ing to drag down her hands arid uncover her
face.
The racial moral sense is so profoundly
different in women from what it is in men.
In women it is narrow, personal, absolute,
for- herself. She bases her self-respect upon
her own chastity, not her husband's. In a
man it may be naively impersonal, a thing
he relies on often only in his wife for his
children. And, again, he may be as virtu-
ous as the best woman, yet have no respect
for himself if his wife is not.
Looking back over life, 1 know the hap-
piest hours I have ever spent have been those
in which I believed most firmly some lie
Adam (her second husband) had told me.
This was true even when I had
a profound inner conviction that it was a
lie.
There is something in every man to which
no good woman ever appeals. Apparently it is
his antecedent nature, the one he Imd before
he. acquired the capacity for morals. And
being a good woman does not pay, except in
goodness. Men are profoundly dependent
upon such. They trust them with their
honor, to bear their children. .. .Neverthe-
less, the bad ones attract them, not more nor
as long, but oftener, than the good ones do. ..
So most of us lose our reward, that medal
for excellence in the virtues which renders
us indispensable to the nation and a trifle
tiresome to our husbands.
All women have a pall-bearing passion for
burying and mourning over love now and
then ; and it would horrify a good many hus-
bands if they knew how often their‘wives
bury them. The point is, we cannot permit
them to remain buried. We cannot long en-
dure the self-imposed bereavement.
d*
After writing these two books, Corra
Harris evidently became ambitious to write
a really-truly novel, like all the other best-
sellers. The result is The Recording Angel
(Constable, per Dymock’s, Sydney),.a story
of Georgia, quite like all the other stories
written about the Southern States of
America, except that it has still the genial
Corra Harris humor. Specimens
He still hoped to escape, as every man
does when he first falls in love.
The most timid man alive can take three
drinks and face an army with every sensation
of cheerful heroism? But women do n,ot
know how to stoke the spirit with stimu-
lants. If they must, they can go down to
the gates of death primly, a little tearfully,
and, apt as not, with empty stomachs. No
one ever heard of a respectable woman about
to become a mother asking for a drink to
fortify her for the ordeal. But, if children
had to be born of the other sex, probably not
one would get into the world until the af-
flicted parent was in a state of delirium
tremens.
If you want to know who reads the
worst and most harrowing literature in the
world, observe the old ladies who are inter-
ested in home and foreign missions. They
make a spiritual business of acquainting them-
selves with the most degrading details of
the most degraded lives. They read with an
omniverous appetite stories of actual licen-
tiousness that would revolt the average reader
of decadent fiction. This is why the re-
turned missionary is always sure of an audi-
ence and of an enthusiastic interest....
Saints often have the most naively corrupt
minds in the world.
Whenever an unmarried woman of 35 is
alone, and not diverted from her natural feel-
ings by some absorbing occupation, she is
always sad. This is much worse than being
married and worried and anxious. It is
really the absence of this kind of worry and
anxiety that makes her sad. ' '
But, apart from this kindly humor, it is
apparent that The Recording Angel is trs I '-
ing his hand at the popular United States
novel. Corra Harris, it seems, is about to
suffer the penalty of achieving popularity:
she is on the downward primrose path that
is paved with goodly circulations.
d*
That treasure above rubies, a new humor-
ist, has been discovered in Canada. And, in
conformity with his character as humorist,
he h'as been found lurking in McGill Uni-
versity, in the cap and bells of a Professor
of Economics and Political Science. Stephen
Leacock, of course, is not a new discovery,
but hitherto he has specialised in what may
be termed technical humor. His Literary
Lapses and his Nonsense Novels have had
the enthusiastic admiration of literary read-
ers ; each book, in its third edition, has been
accepted thankfully and gratefully as a
classic in nonsense. But now he has stepped
from the confines of the literary cult, who,
after all, do not amount to much in this
world —the sort of people, you know, who
write this page or would love to write this
page, and turn to read this page before they
read the “Woman’s Letter” and the “An-
swers to Correspondents,” the quaint people
who never become aldermen nor do anything
for the world, the weird race that write and
read books and enjoy Writing and reading
books —you can always "tell them by their
bleared eyes, their lack of interest in the
editorials in the daily press and their de-
plorable ignorance of the stock exchange
quotations.
And for this peculiar people Stephen Lea-
cock has decided to cater no more; he has
come out into a world of starving people to
give them their fill of his exquisite humor.
Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town (Lane,
per Dymock’s Library, Sydney) marks the
debut of the greatest living humorist. In
his preface this Doctor of Philosophy makes
his delightful apology. He was born in Eng-
land, in 1869. His parents migrated to
Canada —a pity they had not then heard of
Australia —when he was seven years old,
and, as he says, he “decided” to go with
them. His father took up a farm, and “was
just able, by great diligence, to pay the hired
men, and, in years of plenty, to raise enough
grain to have seed for the next year’s crop
without buying any. By this process my
brothers and I were inevitably driven off
the land, and have become professors, busi-
ness men and engineers, instead of being able
to grow up as farm laborers. Yet I saw
enough of farming to speak exuberantly in
political addresses of the joy of early rising
and the deep sleep, both of body and intel-
lect, that is induced by honest manual toil.”
After a painful experience as a school
teacher, he went to McGill University,
where he took his degree of Doctor of
Philosophy. ; £
The meaning of this degree is that the re-
cipient of instruction is examined for the
last time in his life, and is pronounced com-
pletely full. After this, no new ideas can
be imparted to him.
Of his earlier works he states :• —
They are of so humorous a character that
for many „years it was found impossible to
print them. The compositors fell back from
their task suffocated with laughter and gasp-
ing for air. Nothing but the invention of
the linotype machine —or, rather, of
the kind of men who operate them—made it
possible to print these books. Personally, I
would sooner have written Alice in Wonder-
land than the whole Encyclopaedia, Britan-
nica.
' Mariposa, the little Canadian town, he
explains, is not a real town. On the con-
trary, it is about 70 or 80 of them. It; is
populated by types that Leacock makes liv-
ing people, and from their characteristics
Leacock compiles a book of genial, unforced
humor to which the only home comparison
we can make is On Our Selection. But
Leacock has a literary art to which Steele
Rudd is unfamiliar, and a kindly humor that
is not laughing at his characters, but chuck-
ling with them. Take but one out of his
collection, Mr. Golgotha Gingham, the Mari-
posa undertaker:—
I have often heard him explain that to as-
sociate with the living, uninteresting though
they appear, is the only way to secure the
custom of the dead. “Get to know people
really well while they are alive, be friends
with them, close friends, and then when they
die you don’t need to worry. You’ll get the
order every time.”
You may see Mr. Golgotha Gingham at
his ease in that chapter—in which humor is
raised to the nth power—depicting the
annual picnic of the Knights of Pythias:—
“Yes,” said Mr. Gingham, waving his
black glove in a general way towards the
shore, “I know the lake well, very well.
I’ve been pretty much all over it in my
time.”
“Canoeing?” asked somebody.
“No,” said Mr. Gingham, “not in a canoe.”
There seemed a peculiar and quiet meaning
in his tone.
“Sailing, I suppose?” said somebody else.
“No,” said Mr. Gingham, “1 don't under-
stand it.”
“I never knowed that you went on to the
water at all, Gol,” said Mr. Smith.
“Ah, not now; it was years ago, the first
summer I came to Mariposa. I was on the
wafer practically all day. Nothing like it to
give a man an appetite and keep him in
shape.”
“Were you camping?”
“We camped at night,” assented the under-
taker, “but we put in practically the whole
day on the water. You see we were after
a party that had come up here from the city
on his vacation and gone out in a sailing
canoe. We were dragging. We were up
every morning at sunrise, lit a fire on the
beach and cooked breakfast, and then we’d
light our pipes and be off with the net for a
whole day. It’s a great life,” concluded Mr.
Gingham wistfully.
“Did you get him?” asked two or three
together.
There was a pause before Mr. Gingham
answered. “We did,” he said—“down in the
reeds past Horseshoe Point. But it was no
use. He turned blue on me right away.”
Talk of this sort —and after all what more
suitablefor a day qn the water7—beguiled
the Way.
But the book is one that cannot adequately
be sampled by quotation. The stories are
so admirably constructed, with a technical
art that O. Henry would not have been
ashamed of, and the humor so permeates his
work that in the samples you perforce miss
the sunny atmosphere of this little town in
the backblocks of Canada —a little sunshine
town that the author makes more real than
any of his 70 or SO towns could ever be.
Chatter about Wilde
Dui-ing the next decade we may expect a
dribble of anecdotage about Wilde; and at
last, when death has lifted the personalia out
of the realms of possible libel, the complete
edition of Be Rrofundis will be published.
Leonard Cresswell Ingleby, in his little book,
Oscar Wilde, Some Reminiscences (Laurie),
now adds to his Life some supplementary and
also some unnecessary chatter. Elis aim is
to present a living picture of the man him-
self, or, perhaps it would be safer to say, of
the personality Wilde deliberately built up
for himself.
The face of his father, Sir William Wilde,
is said to have resembled that of his second
son ; the upper part of it was of fine contour
and great nobility of aspect, while the lower
portion was heavy, sensual, and almost
simian in expression. Oscar’s mother, how-
ever, was a very handsome woman. Oscar,
as a boy, was in appearance distinctly “lout-
ish,” tall, inclined to stoutness, heavy and
ponderous in his movements, and hating
games and unpopular with his companions.
The author, quotes Labouchere, who asked
the poet how he could make such a fool of
himself, and was answered: “He had written
a book of poems, and he believed in their
excellence. In vain he went from publisher
to publisher asking them to bring them out:
no one would even read them, for he was
unknown. In order to find a publisher he
felt that he must do something to become a
personality. So he hit upon mstheticism. It
succeeded. People talked about him. He
then took his poems to a publisher, who-
still without reading them—gladly accepted
them.” It sounds like an apology for some-
thing that lie, being Oscar Wilde, could not
have helped doing.
The author asserts that after Wilde's
release he was well cared for in Paris by
his devoted friends, “and if he died in cir-
cumstances of a certain squalor, it was
because he did not choose to raise his head
again, and that his mind must have been
already affected by the malady which killed
him.” Wilde earned a certain amount of
money by. the publication of The Ballad of
Reading Gaol and two of his comedies. He
could have earned much greater sums had
his mental energy been sufficient to allow
him,to write anything more. And his friends
constantly supplied him with money. Ilis
moneyless periods were quite transient; and
though, when he died, he was in debt to his
landlord and to a few tradesmen, it was
to quite a small amount.
The new matter in the book includes some
interesting particulars of Willy Wilde,
Oscar’s elder brother, “the supreme type of
the cultured journalist of the past.” In
his brilliant work on the Daily Telegraph
there was no hint of the paradox or the epi-
gram so favored by his brother. Willy
Wilde was also a supreme talker. “If Oscar
Wilde was wit, his brother Willy was
humor.” It was said that Willy was
nobody’s enemy but his own, and that Oscar
was no friend to anyone but himself.
Mention is made, too, of the Australian
artist. Charles Conder, whose painted’ fans
are masterpieces, and whose recent death
left behind him a reputation equal, in his
chosen and more restricted field, to that of
Whistler. It was in the north of France,
where the artist was painting, that Wilde saw
much of, him. Conder, for whose delicate
art the poet professed the profoundest ad-
miration. was one of the few people who
absolutely escaped the least shaft of Oscar’s
wit.


xu?e
9051
589
No. 589-—Smart Light Grey Summer Suiting Skirt,
two-piece, Empire style, finished grey Satin Buttons and
lapped seams 19/9
No. 9051 — Smartly Cut Plain Four-Gore Skirt, panel
back and front, in fine Cream Summer Serge 12/9
Also in Sicilian, in Cream, Black and Navy 8/6, 12/6
Same style in White Linen 5/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6
■?
" LC2
6 07/1X
634
No. LC 2—Smart Coat and Skirt Costume of White
Linen, finished at collar and sleeve with pale blue Linen —a well-
cut skirt. S.W., W., O.S 25/6
No. 634—Coat and Skirt Costume, of Linene, with collar,
revers and cuffs faced black, white Linene. S.W., W., O.S. —
15/6
No. 607/IX — Coat and Skirt Costume, of Black and
White Striped Pique, finished cross bands of Silk and black
Satin Buttons. S.W., W., O.S 24/6
1604
319
No. 1604 Maternity Skirt, of fine Canvas Voile, in Black
only, folds of Silk, gathered on to elastic band 32/6
No. 319 — -Nicely Cut Sicilian Skirt, four-piece, trimmed
Silk Braid, and buttons in Black or Navy 17/6
Anthony Horderns’
the Summer Fashions
ANTHONYHORDERNS’ Summer
Fashion Book illustrates a few of the
many attractive Novelties offered in the
GREEN ROOM at the NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM. These departments pre-
sent a unique assortment of the Latest
Styles selected by our own buyers in the
English and Continental markets, many
models being exclusive and all are in the
newest designs. Artistic Millinery for
all occasions is specially featured,
French models in ladies’ and children’s
garments are distinctly smart and
moderately priced. Send for a Copy,
post free on request.
No. 213—Coat and Skirt Costume of rich
Black Satin ; Coat 1 ned Black soft Silk, finished
sailor collar and trimmed Silk braid motifs;
panel Skirt £4/19/6
FREE CARRIAGE OF GOODS.
We pay Trainag; or Slipping Freight to any RaHwav
Station or Port in New South Wales ; also to any Seaport in
Queensland, Northern Territory, Victoria, South Australia
and Tasmania, only on parcels of DRAPERY, CLOTHING,
BOOTS AND SHOES, CUTLERY, ELECTRO=PLATE and
JEWELLERY, of the value of £2 10s. and upwards.
THE EXCEPTIONS INCLUDE
Furniture, Ironmongery, Crockery and Glass, Groceries,
Tobacco and Cigars, Toys, Sports Material, Harness, Carpets
and Floorcloths, Bedsteads and Bedding, and other heavy
and bulky goods, ON WHICH WE DO NOT PAY CARRIAGE.
It
324
1906
No. 324 — Panama Skirt, in Black or Navy, high waist
effect, lapped seam in front, finished buttons 19/6
Also, No. 329, with button down front 18/6
No. HI 906 —White Pique Skirt, Panel back and front,
four-gore, deep band at foot, shaped at sides 10/6
S
307
223
10£5
No. 1025 Robe Costume, Of Mercerised Foulard, with yoke
and collar of white all over, finished pipings of black and small
black Satin buttons. Colors: Black, Grey, Old Rose, Saxe,
S.W., W„ O.S 17/6
No. 307 Robe Striped Cambric, in all colors,
finished pipings and bands of plain cambric to tone. S.W.,
W., O.S. 9/6
No. 223 Crepe Robe Costume, in Navy and White, Grey
and White, and Saxe and White Stripes, yoke and cuffs of plain
CrCpe, finished self-buttons. S.W., W., O.S 13/9
9914
£
4>
598
No. 9914 White Linen Skirt, new front fastening, finished
self-buttons 11/9
No. 598 —Fine Panama Two-piece Skirt, m Cream
only ; Empire waist, lapped seams, pleated at foot, finished Silk
Braid and Buttons 18/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


HgT/jg After-dinner Cigarette
Virginia
CIGARETTES
After dinner the discriminating smoker
will have no other than the best of
cigarettes —“Winfred.” Those whose
choice is determined by quality
above all other con-
siderations, insist
always on “ Win-
fred” Cigarettes.
Yi
10
6d.
1 /•
WINifRED"
C Cigarettes are obtainable of all Leading
Tobacconist*, Clubs, Hotels, Stores, etc.,
throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers of Winfred Cigarettes:
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.,
Britain’s Greatest High-class
Cigarette Factory,
LONDON, Eng.
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
m
r>
m *
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Brisston, Sy stem—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Cah be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the .plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching- on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessaryall one has to do is? to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall,.hoteh or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting-costs, the user beiajg aide to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and! other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps,, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely safe and l reliable; no smell <or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOO FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from .29 to 5000 LIGHTS.
N.S.W. Agesuts—
W. G. WATSOM & CO. LIIMITED,
171 Clareince Street, SYDNEY.
WORTH CONSIDERATION—
“MARSHALL’S”
CASH OR TERMS.
The World’s Latest Wonder.
m
IMPORTANT TO
OIL ENGINE BUYERS,
Before placing your orders elsewhere,
inquire our prices for the MOST
UP-TO-DATE OIL ENGINE yet
seen in Australia, viz. :
"The Big Chief
99
Equipment includes “WIZARD” MAGNETO, EXTENDED CRANK,
REGULAR PULLEY. ALL SIZES (Stationary Type, 1 to 12 8.H.P.)
Our Prices are Certain to Tempt You. Discount for Cash. Easy Terms.
catalogues free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & GO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ricardo”: Mount Lyell is the Tasmanian black
country, like that murky region! in England, which
is smoke and grime by day and flame by night.
What a lovely region Mount Lyell was, once in forest,
ferns and flowers. Now an area round the smelters
is blighted by sulphur fumes, and nothing grows.
There is a sharp line where the forest ends and the
barren or accursed land begins. The town —or rather
the ground it stands on —is burned off periodically
like scrub. That is the sulphur deposit burning.
The mining record only dates from 1881, when a
-prospecting party went from Hobart under Conrad
Lynch, seeking gold. They found it near Lyell, and
other prospectors followed. Bill McDonough found
the massive outcrop. Yet results were poor in work-
ing for gold during several years. The original
holders sold out cheap. Not till 1891, when Bowes
Kelly arrived, was there any vigorous development.
In two years two or three dozen companies were
busy, not so much for the meagre gold, silver and
tin as for copper from the pyritic formations. Kelly’s
company was largest, but the North Lyell richest.
Much absorption of companies. The North Lyell,
where the tragedy has happened, was found by acci-
dent in cutting a road. Expensive works and re-
fractory ores ruined the company. After spending
£1,250,000 it was embraced by the Lyell nine years
ago.
“Harrison O”: The yarn or mendacity to the
effect that, in spite of increases in wages, the worker
is now no better off than he was prior to the said in-
creases, because of an even greater rise in the cost of
living, sustains another nasty bump—in Victoria, at
any rate, by the issue of an annual report of the
Watt State’s Savings Bank. The bank, which does:
hot pay interest on deposits over £250, is essentially
the repository of the savings of the wage-earner, and,
in spite of the alleged increase in the cost of living,
the skid savings at present amount to £19)662,465.
The increase in deposits during the financial year
was £2,388,042 —easily the largest annual increase
in the history of the institution. The wage-earners
have this year banked more than three times as
much as in" 1908 or 1909. And although there are,
of course, no figures available upon this point, any
moderately observant citizen will hazard the opinion
that the aforementioned wage-earners have probably
spent more as well as saved more. Also, there is a
lot more of them on the list of capitalists than for-
merly. In 1907 there were 491,318 accounts, repre-
senting £12,792,590 ; for 1912 the accounts number
641,736, and they stand for £19,662,465. Another
indication of the improved position of the wage-
earner is contained in the figures showing the in-
creased balances among the smaller depositors. From
1907 to 1912 the deposits of from £5O to £lOO in-
creased by £917,237; those from £lOO to "j 1"”
increased by £841,811 ; arid those from £l5O to
£2OO increased by £717,598. At the present time
nearly 28 per cent, of the depositors in the bank are
the possessors of balances of over £250. But, quite
regardless of these figures, Women’s Gnashional
League canvassers and other retailers of political
mendacities will inform Mrs. W. Jones that, m spite
of the comparatively bloated appearance of Bill s
pay envelope nowadays, she (Mrs. Bill) is not nearly
so well off as she used to be when William s pay
envelope could be swallowed in half a glass ot
water ; because spuds have riz, knife polish costs 11
times as much as it did during'the reign of Monte-
zuma 11., and twice as much as in the time of
Tummus Bent, and the present price; of nutmegs is
over the odds. And Mrs. Billjones, who doesn t
take much account of statistics, and is too busy
washing the baby to devote much time to the study
of political economy, will probably believe her
fashionable misinformant.
* * * *
“Mr. Ocky”: A bulky illustrated volume entitled
“A History of the Frozen Meat Trade” has been
published in London this year. It deals extensively
with the establishment and progress of the industry,
particularly, in Australia and Maoriland. There was
a lot of experimenting before success was gained.
Thomas Sutcliffe Mort, in 1838, emigrated and
founded out here the wool-broking firm of Mort and
Co., which afterwards developed into Goldsbrough,
Mort and Co. Thomas Mort strove hard to devise a
good frozen meat system, and in 1861 established at
Darling Harbor the world’s first freezing works.
In 1874 they became the property of the N.S.W.
Fresh Food and Ice Co. A trial shipment to Eng-
land was arranged in 1876, the ship Nortliam being
chartered. At the first moment a hitch occurred.
Mort lost a lot of money. The event hastened his
death, so it is said. James Harrison was another
experimenter with freezing plants. He was also a
journalist. The book says he edited Melbourne Age
I know he ran the Geelong Advertiser, which is
Victoria’s most ancient morning daily. Harrison’s
tombstone in Geelong cemetery states that he “was
the first to make commercially successful the manu-
facture of ice by artific.al process.’-’ By the s.s.
Norfolk in 1873* he sent to England 20 tons of
mutton and beef, but it was in a horrible state
when Fogland was reached. Even the hungry Eng-
lishman could not eat it. Harrison represented Gee-
long in the Legislative Assembly. It was not till
1880 that Australia successfully sent frozen meat to
London. A- Bell-Coleman machine was rigged up in
the Strathleven, which came out from Plymouth to
get the stuff. The vessel was chartered by Andrew
Mcllwraith and although the trial shipment re-
ceived help from W. and R. Collins, Thomas Mcll-
wraith, B. D. Morehead (of Queensland), Hast-
ings Cunningham and George Fairbaim (of
Victoria) and a few others, the risk really
rested with Mcllwraith, McEacliarn and Co.
Malcolm McEacliarn came froip London to supervise
the loading. The Strathleven left Sydney on Nov.
29, 1879, Melbourne on Dec., 6, and arrived in Lon-
don early in Feb. of the following year. It had 40
tons of mutton and beef, which reached England in
excellent order. Somebody forwarded a lamb to
Queen Victoria and a sheep to her son Edward.
No mention is made of what they said about it.
Other shipments from Australia followed; then
Maoriland sent some in 1882, and Argentina came
in during 1883. Up to 1910 Australia sent
27,824,820 cold sheep and lambs, Maoriland
72,464,591 ; and South America 53,463,982. There
are now about 40 freezing works in Australia and
30 in Maoriland.
A CYCLE OF MIXED DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The smile I wear on Friday
Is nearly always kind.
The' duns whose steps untidy
From Monday until Friday
My fears are close behind
I do not greatly mind,
For pay-day falls on Friday,
And Saturday is kind.
I walk serene on Sunday
In happy light and shade.
No heavy thought of Monday,
When wearied after Sunday,
Can make my soul afraid.
Oh, pleasant, dimpled maid,
Upon the cheerful Sunday
Small cash alone is paid.
The week is dull and weary,
And mad and stark and blind
And blithersome and beery,
Till beer itself is weary ;
But still T do not mind,
If Saturday is kind
And Sunday glad and cheery
And Friday silver-lined.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


Mi
m
K:
i L
t* {/. Iw. t: i (£ t
a
LUDBROOK’S STORE
Wonthaggi,
Victoria.
WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
H
m
'
MM
SIR JOHN MADDEN
“ Yamala,”
Frankston, Vic.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
za nunter Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs,- November 28, 1911.
, l6t yo '< l <riV l °i W f IC ! W , plf’Jised lam with the Aerogen Gas Machine which
my home, Clydesdale, about three months ago. Everything has been
E lil f v™n J machine proving very simple to work, and also verv economical,
vv ll he nnlv i for ordinary use in the house, and for the billiard table. I
Will be only too glad to personally recommend it to anyone.
Yours truly,' (Sgd.) GEORGE G. KISS.
“Yamala,” Frankston,
Dear Sirs, — January 3, 1911.
I send you herewith my cheque for the Aerogen Machine which you supplied to me, as
per your account enclosed. \
The light is perfect, and the' installation the simplest possible and most convenient.
We find that anyone can manage it with care and-complete safety, and it has brought a very
definite joy to my house here in the complete banishment of the kerosene lamps. Our
servants are content, and the cost seems likely to be much lessened.
With many thanks, Very truly yours, (Sgd.) JOHN MADDEN.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can bs
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY.
used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY„ LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA : Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA : A. Barrau.
r Hinging for More!'
rm
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years * success . j
For general use
The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form.
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
m
DIET
m
m
THE LONE HANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
CRANES and PULLEY BLOCKS
Manufactured by Herbert Morris Ltd. (formerly Herbert Morris (EL Baslert Ltd.)
800 CRANES IN STOCK
Ready for Shipment.
.
c
Ki: I m
The Quality and Prices are Right.
ppeg-p::
4 2 j bt 'V
rs
; & # €1 ■■■^"'
V 5 £ ■■ jS 'VJ
>- -■*'
£HB&
■
i
ii
&jS. $5
■
I
cm
W
si
a
‘Send tis your Inquiries.
Complete Illustrated Catalogue of Cranes and BlocKs sent
on request.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
We will send a Pulley Block on approval at
our own expense to any user.
HAES & EGGERS LTD.
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made !
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. Ity
£
For - -22 Short R.F., -22 Long R.F., and -22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2flb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [4
[»]
STONEHENGE
suggests vast strength
and solidity . qualities
which have been evinced
in a remarkable degree
in the Tyres manu-
factured by The Avon
Indiaßubber Co., Ltd.,
and which explain the
origin of the Avon
trade mark.
Their great factory at Melksham, near
Stonehenge, in Wiltshire, England, is
unexcelled throughout the world for
modernity and perfection of equipment,
and every tyre produced is an embodi-
ment of the finest skill and experience
applied to the highest grades of material
AVON TYRES
The British tyres that rule the road and give sound service longest.
AVON
Trade Mark.
Other
Specialities
of this Firm
include :
Mechanical Rubber
for Railways.
I Avon Buffer and Draw-
bar Springs, Brake
Materials, Body
Fittings, Valves, Hose
etc., specially adapted
for use in the tropics.
Contractors to the
principal State Rail-
ways.
Cycle and Motor
Cycle Tyres.
With special rubber
- treads in several
I arades, made specially
to withstand the effects
of hot climates.
For Motor Cycle Covers.
Clinched-on. A special
combination of Rubber
and Steel Studs placed
alternately round the
tread. Hexagon
rubber-studded, round
rubber - studded and
fluted patterns. Thick
tough treads and extra
strong casings.
Solid Tyres for Motors, &c.
Avon Band Tyres for
passenger ’busses and
other heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on sections
from 2£-in. to 5-in.,
suitable for the lighter
type of motor vehicles
up to 2-ton vans. Solid
tyres for Carriages,
Cabs, Rickshas, &c.
Golf Balls.
Made up on a special
centre which forms the
nucleus lor the winding
of Para tape. This
arrangement produces
a ball which flies very
true and is especially
suitable for expert
players.
Avon Ball, 2/- each.
Nova Ball, 1/3 each.
AVON INDIA RUBBER CO., LTD.,
= MELKSHAM, ENGLAND. =
Branches at London, Bristol, Birmingham. Manchester and Glasgow.
Cable Codes: ■ • A.B.C. s th Edition ” and - Western Union.*' Melbourne.
GUTS
cn
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT. Manufacturing; Chemist, ADELAIDE.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOR OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/0.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
BOOKS FOR HOME
BUILDERS AND
Artistic
Homes, 250 Perspective
Views and Floor Plans,
280 pages (Bin. x llin.),
5/4 ; Artistic Bungalows,
208 Views, 5/4; Cement
Houses: How to Build,
5/4; Garages: How to
Build, 5/4; Cement: How
to Use It, 5/4; Practical
Carpentry, 2 vols., 600
pages, 400 illustrations,
10/6 ; Steel Square and Its
Uses, 2 vols., 600 pages,
10/6; Hand-saws and
Their Uses, 2/8; How to
Mix Paints, 2/8.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CARPENTERS.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous
fdhfd
Multiplying-and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform i t), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T wo - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d. ;
post free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
B.S.A.
MOTOR CYCLES
Are winning all the World over 5
NINE of the greatest British Motor Cycling events were recently
won by riders of the B.S.A. Motor Cycles.
In the London to Edinburgh and back ride, one B.S. A
competed against 104 starters on oth r makes, of whom only
thirty-two finished, the B.S.A. gaining the Gold Medal. In the Birm-
ingham to Lands End ride, riders of the B.S.A. machines secured
two Gold Medals.
In the Ulster Quarterly Trials another B.S.A. won the Gold Medal.
In the M.C.U. (Ireland! Hill Climb, B.S.A. riders won First and
Fastest Time in both Private and Open classes. At same meeting
B.S.A.’s won the Five Miles Scratch and the Fifty Miles Handicap.
Belfast and District Hill Climb, one B.S.A. entered and won.
In Japan, the first Motor Cycle Trial ever held has just been
won on a B.S.A. , ,
In New Zealand B S.A.’s won First, Second, and Third places
in the Southland Petrol c onsumption Test against all other makes.
B.S.A. also won Championship running 216 miles to the gallon.
In Victoria a B.S.A. recently broke the 24-hours’ Australian
Road Record.
In N.S.W. a B.S.A. stands equal, first in the first two rounds of the
L.M.C. Hill Climb just held. These and other successes prove that the
B.S.A. 1912 Models are the fastest and most reliable Machines made,
and every intending motor cyclist should call on the nearest B.S.A.
Agent, or send for fully Illustrated Catalogue.
New Models on view at each of the Australian Agencies :
VICTORIA : MILLEDGE BROS., Post
Office Place, Melbourne
NEW SOUTH WALES : BENNETT &
BARKELL Ltd., Castlereagh St., Sydney
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : J. N. TAYLOR
& CO., Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND : CANADA CYCLE
& MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane
TASMANIA : H. H. SMITH, Lonsdale
St., Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA : MORTLOCK
BROS., Queen Street, Perth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium.
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
B
m.
JAY
&
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
• it an ever=increasing sale in ail parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for mem, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTc tu, London, England.
N.B.—-The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
-Sk.
Protect your Farm Stock
by efficient Disinfection.
Use Izal! Izal is the pioneer modern high
power germicide. It disinfects thoroughly . No
fever or disease germs can exist where Izal is
used. It speedily destroys even Anthrax spores;
yet it harms neither
animals nor man.
One gallon of Izal makes 400
gallons of EFFICIENT DISINFECTING
FLUID. Protection ensured at the
smallest cost! Mixes equally well
with salt, brackish or fresh water.
Write for Free Booklet, “ Practical
Disinfection.”
Agents:
I*. K. STEAM ES,
37-43 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
hfd
Guaranteed
to be of uni-
form disin-
fecting power
twenty times
stronger than
carbolic acid,
yet non*
poisonous.


For the
Children
When the children are weak,
when they do not care to play,
when they are languid, when
they keep thin, and when they
have no appetite; this is the
medicine they need
Ayetfs
Sarsaparilla
SOLD FOB gg 60 TEAKS
No alcohol in this medicine. No
habit-forming drug of any kind.
Perfectly safe in every way. Ask
your doctor for his approval.
Talk to the children about this
great rule of health “Have
daily movements of the bowels.”
Ayer’s Pills are sugar-coated,
gently laxative. Dose, one pill,
only one pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. C. ATEE & CO.,
Dowell. Maes., TJ. S. A.
m
NTJ
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Investors’ Guinn.
Established 187T|
TheStendard Remedy which hasoutlived the Centurte*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in nse since 1596.
cures
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
s! k G y RKEN m 2l axambeth Road^London! 1 Eng!
ARE YOU A SUFFERER FROM
GOUT Rheumatism?
Professor Berscham's Gout and Rheumatic
Cachets in boxes of l doz. 2s. 6d., 2 doz., 4s.
Incomparable, Alleviating and Harmless.
A trial box will prove efficacy. Posted to any
address in the Commonwealth
Box No. 031, G P.O Melbourne, Vic.
BOVRIL
For
Health
ana
Beauty
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
TO BK BOUGHT FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
INSIST ON
GETTING
1
OUR
PIPES
DEFY ALL
IMITATORS
THERE ARE
TWO THINOS
THEY CAN’T
PRODUCE
(1) OUR QUALITY
(2) OUR SHAPE.
WE CAN PROVE ALL WE ADVERTISE.
D
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard —secretly— at home. GOEDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total’y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cared in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO- DEFT. 4-, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
IMPROVE YOUR FIGURE!
Every Thin Woman Can be Fully Developed V
Every Fat Person Can be Reduced to Normal ™
hfdh
FAT PEOPLE. Excess fat
injures your health, impedes
your movements, and makes
you the butt of your unfeel-
ing normal - weight friends.
People who have been fat,
and are now reduced to nor-
mal, think other fat people
ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat
injure your health and en-
danger your existence, it ab-
solutely destroys your figure
and makes you a ludicrous
sight. Why do you stay fat?
“FATCURE” positively re-
moves excess fat, and will re-
store your spoiled figure to
decent and pleasing propor-
tions, and is always a sure
and lasting cure for obesity
and corpulency. A few doses
improves your breathing won-
derfully, and the course of
treatment will permanently cure you.
Is the only successful and. at the same time,
harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been dis-
covered. Its efficacy has been undeniably de-
monstrated in thousands of successfully treated
cases. It is totally and absolutely non-poison-
ous, and can in no wise work any injury to the
general health ; though it often reduces excess
weight by as much as a pound a day.
5©
THIN WOMEN.
If you are flat-
chested, thin, run
down and scraggly—
even if you never
had a nicely-rounded
bosom, Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-food will build
you up and develop
your figure. Does
your mirror mock you? Flesh-food will remove
the faults in your figure by rounding out and de-
veloping the deficient places. Put up in Tablet
form, it is easy to use and pleasant to take, and,
if desired, may be taken secretly. Taken under
our directions, it will work wonders for your ap-
pearance. Results guaranteed in every case ac-
cepted.
In many cases bust measurements have been
increased by over ten inches, and the weight
over five pounds weekly. Other cases have
shown an increase in weight of even a pound a
. day. The average bust increase desired is about
six inches, and is readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development
to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable
figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to
attenuated women. Thousands endorse it.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “FATCURE” or “FLESH-FOOD.’
- . - 1 i J 1 ....’ll fnnn onmnln olorv ft*oo LnAlf
Send 2d. stamp, and say which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
“OBESITY” to fat people and “BUST” to thin ones Be sure to say which sample you want.
No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. Confidential. Write or call to-day.
THE WATWORTH FALLIERE ASSN., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney. [Aisng
44
Underwear,
Socks Cs Stockings.
The All-Australasian-Wool Wear with the
softness of silK. And unshrinKable too !
When you oext buy Underwear—or Socks—or Stockings, say "I
want “Ga&orii and you will get the best.
Best because of manufacture—it’s a special process that makes
fdh
unshrinkable and sosilkily soft —so pleasant and comfort-
able to wear.
Best in material too
made in England.
■jUuorii
is of all-Australasian-wool, and is
But see that you get
stocking or garment
-Juton,.
The name is stamped on every sock,
Oi Men's
Socks, Stockings and t> Underwear for Men, Ladies and Children. In
all prices.
Outfitters.
22SH-
made Jerseys for children are splendid wear.
Drapers and Stores. If your dealer doesn't
"jMcn,
he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for * Jason' booklet and name of nearest Agent to
Aa26
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
>
«* Wiw
9
STOP
SMOKING!
M OST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.’
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “l was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
hut after taking your treatment for lJ t days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. 6,107 Castlereagk St., Sydney.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone. Hand no woman in
city or country should miss,.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you hftve tnod everythin^
YET INVENTED. It does a,way altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The paxlismade of
sott rubber, which exerts a, GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for mme?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURIIY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt, snifeable for men, women & cnilaren.
1 DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
34.9 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
established
r FOR
COUGHS
n^bridge’s'
Ufuitdlonic
t
FOR
COLDS,
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for * OWBRIDGE S
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL. ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Australian Magazine —THE EON K
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6(1.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Abdullah’s Wife.
Abdullah wedded Dreaming Byes. She did
the thing she did ,
Because, as those who knew her said, sne
was a Desert kid.
But one there was who knew her liesh went
Brownward for a bid —
In other words, her hand was bought tor
fifty shining quid.
Some held their blame; for all her life no
white man’s love she knew,
And those who passed the Mulga Tank were
far apart and few.
Because of this her love took on a cottee-
colored hue....
But there was one who swore revenge
against the swarthy crew.
He had no love for Dreaming Eyes. He
had no care but this:
She knew the Brown Man’s hot embrace,
and felt the Brown Man’s kiss.
And where the creed of man is White, such
things are much amiss
(God help the maid who lingers near the
yawning Brown abyss !)
We saw Abdullah’s camels sprawl across
the western haze,
Across the sunset’s blazing pinks, the sky-
line’s ghostly greys.
We laughed, we white men, for we knew
the white man’s bitter ways—
We knew that he whose sin is brown the
price of sinning pays.
We held our peace; before that day we’d
seen such-things begin;
The lean Brown men go trailing forth —
their ghosts alone come in.
We knew it all, nor did we judge whose wis
the greater sin—
Because the line ’twixt right and wrong is
most absurdly thin.
We held our peace; a brown hand smudged
our White Australian creed ; .
But if a Brown Man’s was the sin, a White
Man’s was the heed.
We held our peace—because we saw the
triumph of our breed
(Let his the bitter harvest be who sows
the bitter seed !).
We saw Abdullah’s teams go forth by right
of pad and pack;
We’d further news by mulgagraph trom
further up the track
(We knew that of the white men there the
heart of one was black).
We saw Abdullah’s camels go but never
one came back!
Broivn eyes in Bourke gazed out across the
lone mysterious plain;
Brown fears were felt in swarthy camps,
and brown hopes voiced in vain.
But Ave —we laughed, who knew the roads
of penitence and pain—
Full well we knew that none would see Ab-
dullah’s teams again.
Their bones lie bleaching by the pads for
those who choose to see;
The sands that cover all our sins have
passed, and let them be.
But why they died, and how they died, was
told by White to me
One night when all was very still in White s
dispensary.
Across the sands another ’Ghan goes riding
\ with his team ;
And of :their Kings who never come the
Desert maidens dream ;
But with a fierce relentless hate the eyes of
white men gleam
When comes a mem’ry to recall Abdullah’s
color scheme.
And which was right, the Brown or White,
\ is not for me to judge,
Nor for a soul of us who on the Great Lone
Pathways trudge;
Nor for the seer who bears the world a
coffee-colored grudge;
For to our jeers and judgments all, the De-
sert answers “Fudge!”
But this I know; that Back o’ Bourke, be-
hind the blinding haze,
Abdullph’s sprawling camel teams belong to
vanished days.
Also, that he whose sin is brown the price
of sinning pays, . ;
And wfisa is he who loves not in thp White
Mail’s sacred ways.
SUNSET LAND.
R.J. CASSIDY.
Rosemary, That’s For Remembrance.
In my heart’s garden, where used toabe
Blossom and bud and stately tree, w
Only remaineth the rosemary;
In a storm of passion the oak-tree fell.
The pink-white hawthorns we loved so well
Are scorched and seared with the breath of
Hell.
No birds make song in the garden now, _
Through its barren spaces no low winds
sough,
The butterflies died in the drought, I trow.
By the lonely pathways no lilies blow,
No fruit tree blossoms drift down like snow,
The violet has gone where the violets go.
And the roses, too, in their royal pride
Scarlet and golden, side by side,
The hot winds scattered them far and wide.
bnly grey dust where the daisies grew,
And the gallant larkspurs, so brave and
blue,
The weeds have smothered away irom view.
For the gardener cometh that way no more,
And the mosses cling to the part-closed door
Where his footsteps passed in the days of
yore.
In my heart’s garden, where us£d to. be
Blossom and bud and stately tree,
; Only remaineth the rosemary.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN WALKER.


Summer Underskirts.
Delightful Ideas in
Dainty Underwear.
’ 1
mBmB.
...
ill
m
" 1052 —Lady’s Madapolam
Underskirt, trimmed Torchon
lace and embroidery, frill headed
with beading run through with
ribbon; tucks between each row
insertion, 19/11, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-
\y 1053— Dainty Underskirt
in Madapolam, trimmed em-
broidery insertion, tucks, beading,
ribbon and bows, deep frill em-
broidery, 17/6, 21/-
Nicely shaped and very dainty.
\v 1054 —Madapolam Under-
skirt, trimmed linen Torchon
lace, insertion and tucks, dainty
lace frill, a shapely undergarment,
at 6/11 and 7/11.
mm
m
f-mi
*'4*3ll?
\v 1055 —Handsome Under-
skirt, in Madapolam, wide
embroidery insertion trimming,
also beading tucks and lace,
3 0/11 and 12/0.
W 1056—Fashionable Un-
derskirt in Madapolam,
embroidery insertion, Vandyke
style, flounce edged lace, beading
and ribbo-n at top,
JO/6 and 12/6.
.CARRIAGE PAID on all DRAPERY and MILLINERY to JkN.Y ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA.
Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd.^iSiLte
Opi>
Railway Station,
SYDNEY,
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POURRI
For Pipe Smokers—POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Blend of Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage lid. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers POT POURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH 50 for 4/6, postage 4d. extra ; 100 for 9/=, postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA—IOO for 4/9, postage 6d. extra; 1000 for 45/=, postage 1/6 extra.
Send for my Illustrated Catalogue, post free. ;
A. A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
X
7
7,
5792
r\
23
milllHUUlHl'muilTTln
UHti
nii
V
11 ■
Is "four Home
Like "fou ?
Does it reveal your taste—your appreciation of what is
truly artistic, refined and suitable?
The first factor in making your home represent your best
ideas is interior decorating. Walls and Ceilings are the dom-
inating influence in every room, and the selection of appropriate
schemes should be a matter of careful study.
WUNDERLICH
=CEILI/IGS
and Wall Innings are the most artistic of all interior installa-
tions. There are designs appropriate to every room in the
house—designs suitable for fill styles of architecture
Beauty, however, is but one of the many features whicli should
recommend Wunderlich Metal to the homebuilder T k
practicaily everlasting It cannot crack or fall;' is fire!
proof, damp-proof, dust-proof and vermin-proof It is
economical to buy—to freight—and to fix. ’ lS '
Wunderlich Metal Manufactures include Metai n« « n
Mansard Windows, R,d 2 ,s ”f STsHIn
Fronts, Verandahs and Awnlnja, a.lvanlr.d SM Eattrlnr Unto *
Rock face Stone, etc.
Wunderlich Catalogue “L” post free on request.
Wunderlich Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
Hobart, Launceston; and Wellington,. N.Z.
4.1 t*
THORNES
WHISKY
Thorne Fiavotf is Distinctive
Splendid purity —mature mell owners —the ripe experience of
80 years of successful distil 1 iation —combine to place this
excellent whisky in pt tblic ap predation*
Glenlivet —the traditional home of fine Scotch Whisky—
possesses no more rep resentat ive product.
THORNE’S
O. JH. M.
WHIISRY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vor,. 33.—N0. 1707.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3U 1912.
Prick 60.
OLIVER TWIST ASKS FOR MORE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.
I’rinted and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman. for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Centra! .
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13" 6
Quarterly . . .. . • 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing
some care as to methods of address.
business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/-’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded ivithout stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs i/i Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
■of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or, any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current' event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted foi direct reproduction — i.e,, any pic-
ture- which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
■suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —-The Central Neu>s Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/Jjl Hastings Street,
Jcpson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C . IK. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and. D Streets, San Diego.
Cal.; Bay 'City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co.', Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IK. E. Lenehan, 585
—29th Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey, World’s
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco; Queen City
News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
■U.S.A. „
Egypt. —lgnaee Horn, Port Said,; Egypt.
Hong Kong/ —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
i Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 1/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
Ciin. x h'/in., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin , (registered as a
Newspaper).-—Throughout the Commonwealth, heu
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and BJoz. to
lOoz., 21d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id.,
and id.'each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1912.
AN OLD TALE RE-TOLD.
In this casual, slop-fashioned world a very
great chance often comes to a very ordinary
individual or set of individuals. That is bad
for the chance, which is apt to be wasted,
and bad for the individual, who is apt to
fall into discredit that wouldn’t otherwise
have come his way. There is a superstition
that the hour brings forth the man, but most
times it doesn’t bring forth one at all pro-
portioned to the size of the case. Also, it
frequently happens that the man isn’t looked
for because the community doesn’t notice
that any special sort of hour is lying about.
Thus few people realise that Edmund Bar-
ton occupied a unique position in public life,
and should have been a unique figure. So
far as history relates, there was never anv-
body else like him from Chaos until this
month of October, 1912, and there is no evi-
dence that there will ever be anybody like
him from this month of October until the
Day of Judgment. Barton was the first
Prime Minister or supreme representative of
the people of a whole continent —a continent
which was under one flag, and which to all
intents and purposes spoke one language
and represented one race. Caesar "and Han-
nibal abd Nebuchadnezzar and Alex-
ander and Napoleon and George Wash-
ington and the Twelve Apostles and the
Early Fathers and the early martyrs and
the alleged Eleven Thousand Virgins of
Cologne were almost ordinary as com-
pared with Barton, or at least with
Barton’s position. They were merely
in the ruck. There are people here and
there in history or legend who rank with
him for rarity— Adam, the only first man ;
Noah, the only successful shipbuilder of his
time; Iscariot, the only betrayer of the
only true God who ever came on this earth;
the Devil, as the only authentic devil ; and
one or two more. But in his own
way Edmund Barton flocks by him-
self, and is in a category of his own. He
even beats St. Peter, the very dubious first
Pope. And no one can say that he rose to
the occasion. He is a pleasant and accom-
plished gentleman, a fair lawyer, an agree-
able raconteur, an affable diner-out, but he
never attempted to be quite the heroic figure
that his opportunity called for. Still, when
he dies, there will be a chance to put on
his tombstone a record such as no other man
in the whole human race can claim. It can
set forth that the person underneath was one
of the wonders of the world, and showed no
sign of being aware of it.
It is, perhaps, unkind to speak of Edmund
Barton as something of a failure, for at
his worst he was superior to his generation.
George Reid, as the first ambassador of a
whole continent, is a pathetically ordinary
figure. The men who dragged down the job
of selecting the site for the first capital of a
continent to the level of a dirty, petty, mean,
parish-minded scramble for twopenn’orth
of unearned increment were a poor
crowd. And the Australian people, as
a whole, are no better than their
leaders. To them is given the only
opening on record to build up a free, white,
united nation, with a continent to itself.
They own the one tropical region in which
white men can settle without the disability
qf unclean black races, black men’s diseases,
insanitary black men’s cities, and cheap, ser-
vile black labor. They have had the luck to
acquire the one big, fertile, thinly-peopled
region that is left on this overcrowded earth.
Now that the world’s food supply is grow-
ing scarce, _ owing to the wonderful increa.se
of population, they are heirs to the land
which, above _ all others, is worth stealing.
Incidentally, it is also the only land bigger
than a threepenny bit which seems to have
escaped the curse of war since history began.
Under such conditions one might expect the
Australian peonle to be full of a high-minded
and most strenuous patriotism—not a local
affair, but a continental patriotism. The
Australian should think in continents, be-
cause he is the only person who has a whole
continent to think in. This has been said in
The Bulletin before, but it will bear re-
peating.
And how do Fisher, the ex-miner, and
McGowen, the ex-boil er-h am merer, and Den-
ham, _ the corn and turnip trader, rise to the
occasion? Australia’s great want is people
enough to garrison it. The * over-peopled
country, like England, that has to look
abroad for food, is a Calamity. But so, also,
is the greatly under-peopled one that has to
look abroad for defence. Australia’s first
weak point lies in the insane Congestion
policy by which it tries to plant all its
population, wealth, commerce and machinery
of government in a few coastal cities, where
the first enemy who gets command of the sea
can annex the lot. That reduces its limited
powers of defence to a minimum. Its
second weak point is the great, empty North,
which has- no means of swift land communi-
cation with the thinly-populated but not so
empty South. Such communication is in-
dispensable, for Australia has no appreci-
able forces save land forces. And while a
huge army could arrive at Port Darwin from
China or Japan inside a month, any use-
ful land force from Adelaide (the nearest
big city), crawling over the immense wilder-
ness, with its rifle in its hand and its ham-
sandwich on its back, could hardly arrive
there in a generation. The North is cer-
tainly being attended to. Its day of com-
plete neglect is over. It has been supplied
with a Governor or Excellency of a sort —a
veterinary surgeon or cow-doctor person, with
no knowledge, so far as the public can learn,
of tropical life or tropical conditions. It
has been supplied with all manner of well-
paid civil servants, also from the South, and
with two barrow-loads of regulations devised
by people who don’t know the cduntry.
But it doesn’t get its railway, because there
are two routes under discussion, and no poli-
tical party can declare for one route without
losing the votes of the people who advocate
the other route, and thus imperilling its job.
It can’t get a land settlement policy, because
the Government can’t decide between free-
hold and leasehold, without much worry and
some impediment of its job. And it can’t
get population, because there is no railway
to bring population, and no definite method
by which the population can get land to
settle on if it arrives. Of course all the
Commonwealth is short of population. This
country imports, in proportion to the num-
ber of its people, a greater mass of cheap
labor goods than any other on earth, and
as it can’t both imnort the goods and make
them locally, there isn’t much work for local
population. And the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, having to consider the votes and
support of people like Hughes, who live on
their advocacy of the interests of the folk
who import sweated goods, doesn’t feel that
it could interfere in this matter without
serious disturbance. There are so many
people looking so very hard at such very
small personal interests that the world’s
biggest and most wonderful opportunity—
also its Last Visible Opportunity—is in
great danger of slipping away. Apparently
the people in charge, and the community
which puts them in charge, are as unable to
realise that there is anv special chance on
their hands as an aboriginal is to realise the
finer points of a masterpiece by Rembrandt.
* * * *
Consider, now, the case of at least one
possible enemy! Japan had 272 persons per
square mile in 1891. In 1908, only 17 years
later, it had 336 people to the
mile (as against a little over two people
per mile in the Commonwonlth L If the
pace keeps up it will have 600 people to the
mile within the life-time of men who are
alive to-day. Long before that event comes
to pass Japan will not only be wanting more
space, but it will almost certainly want to
import food. It will become a buyer just
when the countries that are now food sellers
are going out of the business because they
require their victuals for their own consump-
tion. The circumstances would drive a far
more peaceful and reasonable folk than the
Japs to acts of aggression. For a time the
local ostrich that buried its political head
in the sand contented itself with the remark
that the possessions which Japan had, acquired
in the last war would keep it busy and afford
an outlet for its surplus population for
many a long year to come. That theory is
dead already. The Jap landowner does
'well enough'in Korea and adjacent parts, but
the Jap toiler doesn’t. Cheap as the Jap is
compared with the Australian, the Korean
and his neighbors are cheap compared with
the Jap. The new province promises to be
just as much good as a field for the super-
fluous Nippon worker to emigrate to as India
. is for the superfluous British worker. Theo-
retically the cool parts of India should be a
splendid field for the British worker to emi-
grate to. Baluchistan is larger than the
whole British Isles, and has only about six
niggers to the square mile, whereas England
and Wales have 619 people to the square
mile. There are only 36 people to the square
mile in Cashmere —'Cashmere, with its rivers
and it snows and its roses and its legends.
The Indian Empire, taken as a whole, is not
one-third as thickly peopled as England, and
the places that are emptiest are those which
would suit the white man’s constitution
admirably. Yet the English emigrant
would have as much chance there as a
market gardener who tried to grow vege-
tables in perdition. There may be plenty of
room, but cheap labor competition would
get him down. In fact, even the scant popu-
lation of white bosses and employers is
diminishing. Japan has struck exactly the
same difficulty in Korea and Manchuria.
Korea is about the size of Victoria, with 10
times Victoria’s population. Its cheap labor
has driven the Jap emigrant back to his old
haunts. Take India, it has points and ad-
vantages for the soldier and the capitalist.
But the question of finding room for the
"•'-'“rfluous Gibeonite is just about where it
was.
# * * #
Japan is already more or less on the move.
Its people practically own Hawaii, though
the Archipelago is nominally American, and
constitute half, or more than half, the popu-
lation. They are pushing into the Philip-
pines. They have, very quietly and unob-
trusively, served what was practically an
ultimatum on the Dutch Government, to the
effect that their people must have free admis-
sion to the Dutch Indies, which lie almost
within sight of Australia ; and Holland has
looked at the size of the enemy and made
the most dignified .surrender that the circum-
stances allowed of. Japanese colonies are
alleged to be growing unobtrusively in
Mexico. But with the Jap, as with every
other crowded nation, the desire is to find
an outlet for the working class population
where wages are higher and conditions better
—not where wages are lower and conditions
worse. That is why the Englishman still
emigrates to the State of New York, where
there are already 200 people to the square
mile, and not to the much more promising
land of Cashmere, where there are only 36
people to the same area. The two places
which must,- of necessity, hold out the
greatest temptation to the Jap are Aus-
tralia and the Pacific Coast of the United
States and Canada. Of these, Australia will
be the easiest to capture the first day that
Britain gets into serious difficulties. But
even before the question of actual capture
comes up, there is almost certain to be a
demand for the admission of Japanese im-
migrants—the same sort of demand that
struck Holland in its ample vest not long
ago. And if Australia isn’t ready to fight
for its White Australia policy —Australia,
with its army of small boys, an<j with some-
thing like two-thirds of its territory inac-
cessible to even that very unsatisfactory
army; and if Britain doesn’t care to take
up the question, which, as the greatest
nigger Power on earth, it can hardly do with
any enthusiasm- —then there is an end to
White Australia, with its glories and its
dreams and its unique opportunities. A time
is liable to came when Japan will cheerfully
risk two million soldiers on the conquest of
Australia, and they are no poor specimens in
the *military line. . And if it gets Aus-
tralia it will be the heir of the ages. It
will stand .alone, as the one nation that owns
a continent, and as the owner of the last
almost-emptv food-producing region on an
overcrowded earth,. The prize is worth fight-
ing .-for,, and no\y that Britain has abandoned
the job- of ■policine:. the seas, and has been
drivern, to’gather its fleets closelv round its
own coasts'; the chance to fight for the pos-
session of Australia may not be so very
remote after all.
The one matter which is of supreme im-
portance to Australia, these days, is the set-
tlement of the North —’the supply of railways
and people, and, above all, the supply of
armed and trained people. It is worth more
than the Baby Bonus and the proposed re-
duction of the hours of labor and every-
thing else, for on it everything will, almost,
certainly, one day depend. It is a common
and comforting theory that Australia, by
reason of its vastness, can’t be conquered.
Possibly it can’t. Probably the. complete
conquest, even if the invader had the best
kind of luck, would be the work of a
hundred years or more. But Australia is
liable to lose its coastal cities, its shipping,
its factories, its banks, its Treasuries, its
machinery of government, its credit, its pub-
lic debt, and many other things, and to see
the bulk of its population annexed —all at
very short notice, whenever Britain strikes
the trouble that comes to every country one
day or another. And even though a handful
of irreconcilables should hold out for gen-
erations in the interior, fighting a defensive
war on guerilla principles, cut off from the
outer world, becoming more and more like a
scanty but dauntless race of Arabs, there
would be little satisfaction in the matter.
That kind of warfare leads to no permanent
results. Australia requires to be defended
on modern principles, and the most import-
ant of these are railways, a sufficient popu-
lation, and well-trained armies. If these
matters are not put in the forefront of its
policy, its epitaph is liable to be that it had
the most wonderful show in history, but that
it didn’t know a show when it saw the
article, so it fooled itself away.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Loans and the Fruits Thereof.
The N.S.W. State Government has again
found it necessary to stick on certain new
taxes in a great effort to make ends meet.
Yet the times have been good. The land tax
has yielded more, because the value or land
has gone up. Income tax has yielded more,
because the aggregate income has risen. 1 ro-
bate duties have yielded more, because the
corpse has been richer. He was a very poor
sort of deader 20 years ago, but now his
position has greatly improved. The number
of taxpayers has increased very largely, and
that should tend to reduce the cost of gov-
ernment, for it divides the old loan that was
floated 40 years ago among more people, and
makes the amount per head and the interest
per head so much the less. Also, it causes
the train between Parramatta and Sydney,
and the tram-car between Redfern and Cir-
cular Quay to carry more paying passengers
than of old. The Government has borrowed
enormously, and expended the' money on
“permanent and reproductive public works,
which are understood to be works that show
a net profit, and thus reduce the _ necessity
for taxes. It has no wars or military or
naval preparations to pay for; these things
belong to the Commonwealth. It has enjoyed,
out of the old sources of revenue, an income
that is beyond all precedent. It hasn’t
started to pay off the public debt, or to build
public works out of income, or to pay old
age pensions—in fact, it has been relieved
by the Commonwealth of the cost of old age
pensions. Therefore, when it is driven to
shove up taxation again and again, r sus-
picion naturally arises that perhaps the
whole business is rotten. Apparently, the
great burst of “permanent and reproductive
works” represented by the loan money aren’t
adding to the net revenue, but dragging it
down; and the only thing they are shoving
up is the expenditure. If that is not the
explanation, it would be pleasing to know
what is.
+ _
Two Sorts of War.
People who want to draw a parallel between
the commotion now frothing in the valleys
of the Balkan peninsula _ and any possible
warfare in which Australia may be engaged
in the years to come, need to be reminded of
quite a lot of things before they start to
make the comparison. The wrangle between
Turkey and the numerous small States
which once acknowledged Turkish rule can
hardly be regarded >'as a modern conflict.
None of the combatants is in possession of
the needful cash or supplies to conduct
things according to the latest rules of the
game; and, despite the fact that some mod-
ern weapons and appliances are here and
there in evidence, the Campaigning and fight-
ing will differ little in kind from* that in-
dulged in during the Crimean fiasco, and in
no very remarkable degree from the sort of
warfare which Napoleon waged or Marl-
borough conducted. The wars of great
nations are not of that kind, and the one
frightfully impressive thing which must lay
hold of an Australian studying the question
is that this Commonwealth, with its handful
of people and its enormous territories, may
be called to fight, not $s Montenegro and
Bulgaria fight, but as great empires wrestle
when they are up against the blunt and
heavy end of doom. Once a tribe pr nation
which had the spirit of stoush in its heart
could hold its own despite lack of prepara-
tion and forethought. Weapons were primi-
tive and strategy crude. Any old stick
stone or piece of pointed metal could be used
to arm the rank and file, and as long as the
soldiers yelled loudly and hit hard they had
a decent chance of victory. With the ad-
vance of gunpowder and other things that
pass for civilisation, a change came over the
scrapscape of Europe. Some preparation
for battle was necessary, and triumph
crowned those who had sharpened their guns
to the finest point or put in the best drill.
Still, it was possible to make an army in a
few moflths and a navy in a year or so. and
the prolongation of the game often helped
the dilatory and unprepared to get even with
a better equipped enemy. Conditions are
somewhat like that in the Balkans even to-
day; but in the contests of big nations the
ca,se is altogether different. A struggle, say,
between Prance and Germany would not be
decided by the chance of. one or two colli-
sions on the frontier, as in 1869; the deci-
sion has already been made in the council
rooms, the workshops, the schools and the
arsenals. Tariffs, food supplies, industrial
conditions, the ships that take years to
build, the men that take years to train, the
foresight that eliminates the unexpected,
and the mastery of details, which must be
collected, collated and added to day by day
and hour by hour, are all as much part of a
campaign as the actual flight of the shells or
the rush of the attacking parties. It is on
the grander modern scale that Australia will
be called to fight when the hour strikes. The
success or failure of the defence of a con-
tinent is not going to be decided by the
banging of a few guns in the Northern Ter-
ritory or a splendid rush of bush horsemen
somewhere in Queensland, It is being de-
cided now. Every modern nation worthy
of the name is practically in a perpetual
state of war. The issde of a campaign de-
pends upon the conduct of affairs during the
20 years which went before the actual out-
break of hostilities, add nothing which can
be of any serious value, is to be accomplished
at the last minute. How long or how short
a time Australia may have to prepare is
beside the actual question. The big cam-
paign is now developing, and on the nature
of our preparations the whole issue must
depend. It is even possible that already we
are counted out; and if things are not
quite so bad as that, it is evident to any
except a blind man who is also deaf in both
ears and lacking in intellect that we shall
be counted out some time in the _ future if
we continue to conduct the campaign as we
are doing at present. More than that,
we deserve to be counted out, and
nations mostly get what they deserve, includ-
ing inflictions like the Peace Society and
diseases like “conscientious objections” to
serving our country. ,
♦
The High Court, aiul a Proposal Which
Would Tend to Emasculate It.
The Australian Government cannot delay
much longer the appointment of one or more
new Judges to the High Court Bench.
O’Connor is a sick man ; domestic troubles*.


Xo Agents:
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1912
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations by “Hop,” Alf Vincent,
Norman Lindsay and all the leading represen-
tative artists, will be the finest Black and
White Work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the National humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the
annual reflection of the life and thoughts of our
country, and therefore useful as well as inter-
esting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates,
but, in consequence of the heavy outlay on this
Special Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 16th NOVEMBER to en-
sure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.;
Foreign Addresses, 9d.
have had their effect on Isaacs; and no one
can watch the Court at work without appre-
ciating that Griffith himself, mighty
worker though he is by temperament and
choice, is showing the effects of the
strain of the past year. As a result
of one Judge after the other becoming in-
valided, the work has got badly in arrears,
and litigants are cursing freely. The
haunting dread of Liberalism —the party
which, however loudly it talks, for election-
eering purposes, of its consuming love of the
democracy, stands starkly for the cause of
the Trust and the Sweater whenever it comes
to real business—is that the fresh appointee
may be one who will tend to interpret the
Constitution on the broader scale. The
indications are that the selection of another
Higgins or Isaacs will produce something
unique in the way of scandalised Liberal
protest. What the party yearns for
at any price is a Tory judge ; and this was
the naive way the Sydney Telegraph ex-
pressed that longing last week
There are reasons which render the political Judge
even more conspicuously out of place in the High
Court than he would be as a member of a State
judiciary. There is no need to go to militant poli-
ticians in or out of Parliament for Federal Judges.
Other things equal, the less prominently a man has
figured in political strife the better his qualifications
for any tribunal by which questions arising out of
that strife have to be decided. Hitherto, however,
this common-sense principle has not been acted upon
in the selection of men lor the High Court Bench,
and every day makes clearer the mistake of so ignor-
ing it.
It is doubtful if our absurd party system was
ever responsible for a more grotesque aspira-
tion than that. As far back as 400 years
ago, Bacon, who knew something of his sub-
ject, poured scorn on the judge who had had
no experience of politics, and hence of the
larger affairs of life. And the whole experi-
ence of the world, since then, has gone to
show that he was right. The American
Supreme Court, which corresponds in all re-
spects to our High Court, and is one of the
most esteemed institutions in the world, has
been in existence about 120 years. Some of
its . judges have been political; some non-'
political. With possibly half a dozen ex-
ceptions, every one of the big and nationally
valuable men have gone there fresh from
“political strife” of the bitterest sort. Con-
trariwise, fully 90 per cent, of the non-
political judges have proved themselves com-
parative nonentities. In the history of the
United Kingdom it is impossible to name one
really great judge, with the exceptions of
Blackburn and Bowen, who was not a
keen party politician before he took to the
Bench. Cairns, Jessel, Halsbury, Her-
schell, Russell and Selborne, and amongst
the living Alvebstone and Fletciier-
Moulton, all go to prove that an active
political career is a sound training for the
judicial business. Papers like the Tele-
graph don’t need, as a matter of fact, to go
further than their own back yards to learn
that it is the ex-politician who makes the
best judge. There was no more furious poli-
tician, in his time, than Martin ; yet he
stands to-day as the biggest man that the
N.S.W. Bench has evolved. Darley,
Innes and Faucett were nothing out of the
way in an intellectual manner of sneaking,
and they did not shine effulgently as lawyers.
They were successes, in great part, because
they knew men and the world and the affairs
thereof —a science that is best acquired in
the University of politics, where they gradu-
ated. What renders even more imbecile the
Telegraph’s contention that “militant poli-
ticians” should be debarred from becoming
Federal judges, is the notorious fact that
political partisanship has nothing to do with
a man being in or out of active politics.
Some of the most frenzied and bat-eyed en-
thusiasts —either Liberal or Labor, as the
case may be —are men who have never.
troubled, perhaps, to attend so much as one
political meeting in their lives. The Gov-
ernment’s sole consideration in appointing a
new member of the High Court should be, of
course, to get the best man. To begin bv
excluding from the list of “possibles” all
who have been politicians, would be the
surest means of dowering the greatest Court
in the land with one or more ciphers. For
tragic futility it would be tantamount to
limiting the entrants for the Melbourne Cup
to spavined “roarers” of not less than 14
years of age.
♦
Bull’s Beef.
Bull, our father, enjoys all the blessings of
Freetrade, and is supposed to get his food
cheaply in consequence, but of late years a
feeling has arisen that something is wrong,
and that the scheme isn’t working out quite
as it should do. People who look for the
simplest form of explanation charge this to
trusts, just as they ascribe sin to the machin-
ations of the Devil, and set down the rain
that comes after drought as the direct and
immediate result of prayer. And the trusts,
without doubt, are partly responsible, but
only in a secondary way. Trusts, save in
rare cases, can only operate with any suc-
cess when the demand is close up to the sup-
ply, or beyond the supply. Then it is pos-
sible to corner the market and charge famine
rates. No one, for instance, makes a corner
in sea water, for there is plenty to go round;
though the wonderful Fisk and Gould firm
once tried to corner gold. Few middle-aged
people quite realise that the population of
England has doubled since their school days;
that its demand for foreign food has more
than doubled; and that, within the short
space of 30 or 40 years, half the countries
which used to supply Bull, the great buver,
with food have either accumulated,; so much
population that they need all their own food,
or have even become buyers themselves.
Instead of regarding Bull as a benefactor
because he purchased their meat, some
of them now bark at him as an
annoying competitor for the brisket
and the ox cheek which they want
themselves. Thus, as recently as 20 or 25
years ago, it was customary to regard the
United States as an inexhaustible land of
tfeef supply. The Atlantic cattle-ship was an
institution, and was to be an institution for
all time. Now Uncle Sam is about finished.
Thus, in the first nine months of 1912, he
supplied Britain with 12,752 sheen, as
against 38,054 for the same period of 1911;
88,529 cattle, as against 120,000 the previous
year; 5731 c wt. of beef, as against
159,776 cwt. the previous year. He sent no
frozen sheep or lambs whatever, and he sent
nothing else in the animal line worth
mentioning. Apparently, in another
year, the live and dead meat export
trade of the United States will be about
finished. Canada, which used to be a great
supplier, sent England 1193 sheep, as com-
pared with 4198 in 1911; 6396 cattle, as
against 30,188; and So6cwt. of beef, as
against 888. Germany, which not long since
was a grea t source of furnishment, sent Bull
3cwt. of mutton in all; 44cwt. of beef, as
against 954 cwt. in 1911; and, for the first
time, it went absolutely out of the pork sup-
ply business. Australasia and Argentina
showed a decreased supply. In every depart-
ment prices were higher than they were a
year ago, and the most visible reason was
that there were smaller quantities coming
in, and more mouths to fill. Argentina is
now the richest source of Bull’s chop and
steak, and any enemy who could, occupy Ar-
gentina with an army could so far cut off
Bull’s cow-heel at tlie meter as to create a
meat famine in Britain —a famine that all
Bull’s fleet couldn’t cope with. In fact,
if Argentina ever got into a state of war
with Britain, it could, by simply stopping
the meat and wheat exports, raise the cost
of Bull’s food to a figure that would mean
starvation to a very large section of the
community, and it could do this without
sending a ship to sea. Of course this would
be somewhat ruinous to Argentina itself, but
it could make up part of the loss by stop-
ning payment of the interest on the public
debt, which is very largely held in England.
(It did this sort of thing on a small scale
once before, as a matter of necessity, and
thereby made a sort of panic in England,
and the reflex of that panic struck Aus-
tralia, and helped the great smash of 1893.)
Also, it could seize British local railway and
banking interests, and thus help to make
Bull pay for his own famine. A side issue
of the case is that Argentina has practically
doubled its population in 17 years, and if
this progress continues, it will soon begin to
eat its own beeves and jumbucks. at a rate
which will fast reduce the exportable surplus.
Taking all things into account, there seem
to be wonderful times ahead for the thickly-
neopled countries, with still growing popula-
lations, which depend almost whollv on for-
eigners for their daily loaf and their hourly
sausage. The change, since the middle-
aged person of to-day learned his rudiment-
ary political economy at school, has amounted
to a revolution —such a revolution as the
world never saw before. Even 30 years ago
the food-buying country was a proud bene-
factor handing out largesse, and the food-
selling country was a humble shopwalker—-
the kind who washes his hands with invisible
soap and imperceptible water. Now the bal-
ance of humility is nossibly on the side of
the buyer, for certainly he complains bitterly
about the way the arrogant seller puts up his
figures. In another 30 years, on present ap-
pearances, the country that depends almost
whollv on imported food will be, for humility,
like the person who takes his furtive way
after dark to the pawnshop round the corner.
A Tariff that Protects the Foreigner.
The letter of “Frank Choson” :
Were it not filled with such deadly menace to Aus-
tralia, the fiscal position hinted at in a return re-
cently laid before Parliament by Customs Minister
Tudok would be a humorous circumstance. The re-
turn was a list of the applications received during
the last 12 months for relief from foreign competi-
tion and from minor tariff anomalies and injustices.
In a trifling number of instances the relief was granted ;
in the large majority it was not; though that it was
in most cases badly needed the increasing importa-
tions show. The list comprised over 100 industries,
and is too long to quote in full; but a few of the
items may be mentioned, with the importations in
1910 and ’ll:
1910. 1911.
Article.
Linseed oil .. . . . . 191,430 266,524
Salt 27,519 50,391
Gloves 293,786 350,742
Boiler, tubes .. . . 452,176 515,868
Matches 148,035 188,126
Wire-netting .. . . 287,442 330,841
Tin plates .. .. .. 355,402 486,311
Paints and colors .. . . 481,392 485,240
Plate-glass.. .. .. 84,805 110,972
Timber (Baltic-dressed) .. 346,523 412,706
Boots and shoes . . . . 428,338 447,505
Motor and cycle tyres, etc. 371,169 500,201
Motor bodies .. .. 96,003 160,542
Motor chassis . . . . 694,246 1,018,020
Pianos 335,675 473,213
Wattle bark.. .. .. 5,461 31,253
The fact that the Commonwealth last year increased
its importation of wattle bark by over 500 per cent,
must appear wildly hilarious to any real Australian.
This list —a mere fraction of the complete tale —is
not long, but it is terribly suggestive. Why, one
may ask, should the Australians import any linseed
oil at all, or any gloves or boots? Linseed can be
grown here and crushed. We produce leather, and
manufacture boots and gloves in moderation—but the
tariff doesn’t keep the low-wage foreigner. out of our
market. There i.s no atom of reason why this coun-
try should not produce and manufacture every one of
the tin plates it uses; or the half million pounds’
worth of paints-—which are only ground, burnt and
prepared earths. The halfunillion pounds’ worth of
rubber tyres imported are Unnecessary ; we have fac-
tories here. The Australian consumer of these pays
the Australian price for them, and out of that the
employee gets Australian wages—but again the
tariff isn’t high enough to keep the cheap foreigner
out. The above-mentioned are important industries,
but they are little more than the first step on the
industrial ladder. This writer happened into a country
timber yard the other day, and while waiting for at-
tention he strolled over the place—and marvelled.
The splendid hardwoods of Australia are, of course,
worked up here, but the soft pine is all imported.
And it isn’t even sawn or dressed here; even the
blessed weather boards, flooring and lining boards are
brought in ready to use. But, inside the mill, over
and above the yard-men and carters, were some 20 or
30 men making doors, windows, grilles and other
fancy work. What most fascinated the writer here
were the beautiful, intricate machines, which would
do in two minutes what the old hand mechanic
couldn’t do in two hours. Who makes those won-
derful pieces of mechanism, those results of man’s
patient investigation and tireless endeavor ? The
foreigner! Who makes those complicated triumphs
of mechanical skill, the various bootmaking
machines? Or the linotypes? Where are the weav-
ing machines built? The wire-netting and barbed-
wire making machines? Or the dynamos and those
latest triumphs of science—internal combustion en-
gines? Some people have an idea we make barbed-
wire in Australia. We don’t! Some of us put two ;
coils of already-manufactured galvanised wire on
drums, pull a lever, and, after a machine has re-
volved a numb.er of times with much clatter, take a
ready-to-sell coil .of finished barbed-wire off —but
the machine that -does this clever work is not made
by Australians. Doubtless the Australian could make
it; in fact, he would probably not only make all the
last achievements of scientific engineering, but also
improve on them —if he got the chance. But our
tariff works to the advantage of the foreigner, and
the foreigner gets the chance. It is only mechanical
skill that makes the primary processes of production
possible to-day—it wouldn’t pay to grow wheat with-
out the harvester —and the latest triumphs of that
skill are the dynamo, the motor, the ’plane, the wire-
less receiver, the mail steamer, the battleship. The
Australian has brains enough to build all these—and
better them —and he has all the materials at hand ;
but the tariff and the “fiscal sinkers” say he must
continue shearing sheep, milking cows and following
the plough. Tie mustn’t even indulge in such a
slight mechanical operation as cutting his own native
wattle-bark!
Concerning a Bad Kind of Tory.
That fine old Conservative body, Sydney’s
University Senate, was threatened with ex-
tinction by a Bill introduced to the Assem-
bly by Minister for Education Carmichael
recently. Carmichael, who has been mak-
ing a name for himself as a sound educa-
tional reformer, discovered soon after taking
over the department that the shortest free
route from the primary schools to the Uni-
versity for the poor scholar was over the dead
bodies of the Senate. In fact, it appeared
to be the only possible track, and Carmi-
chael started in to blaze it. His Bill had a
comparatively easy passage through the
Assembly, nothing in particular being hurled
at its urgency except the claim of C. G.
Wade’s party that it itself once advocated the
same thing or somethin 0- like it. But, in the
Legislative Council, which, though dead, is
not divided when any encroachment is
threatened upon the crumbling relics of class
privilege, trouble promptly appeared. A
petition was presented there from 15 out of
20 members of the Professorial Board —
which appears to be as keenly opposed to
democratising higher education as the other
University authorities —urging the House to
smite Carmichael’s Bill by turning the
whole matter over to the procrastinating
mercies of a Royal Commission—which
would mean the shelving of the Bill indefin-
itely. When the Bill is examined, the
ordinary mind swells with admiration (or
something) at the request. Its main clause
provides for the abolition of life tenure on
the Senate, except in the case of the Chan-
cellor and Vice-Chancellor (Dr. Maclaurin
and Judge Backhouse), who, in considera-
tion of length of service (29 and 25 years
respectively), were to retain their positions.
The other Senators, however, were to be
asked to line up to the ballot box once every
five years. The Government would, in its
turn, appoint four representatives to the
Senate (which means that the Education
department would be given an opportunity
to offer a few suggestions) ; the Legislative
Assembly would be asked to elect a repre-
sentative (who might be Jay C. L. Fitz-
patrick, Colonel Onslow or even C. G.
Wade) ; tlie Leg. Council, one ; the Munici-
pal Councils, one; and the country Mayors
and shire presidents, one. The graduates of
the University were to choose seven Fellows,
and the teaching staff of the institution five.
Out of the total of 20 Senators the Univer-
sity would thus have the privilege of elect-
ing 12 ; yet even this power of effective con-
trol did not satisfy the crusted conservative
element. A further objection was taken to
the proposal to allot 200 bursaries annually
to the brightest boys of the secondary
schools The point of the objection appears
to be embedded in the fact that by Carmi-
chael’s scheme there would be in the Uni-
versity, four years hence, between 600 and
800 holders of State bursaries, the majority
of whom would not otherwise have got
within the precincts unless by the “trades-
men’s entrance” with the weekly supplies of
wood and coal, or as a milk-o in the morning.
In brief, the fence which keeps the poor boy
out appeared in a fair way to collapse under
the weight of the bounding Sosh tiger. It
was clear that once the animal forced its
way into the enclosure, the chances of Bill
Dives would in future be no better than
those of Jim Lazarus, and although, to the
ordinary intelligent mind, it would seem a
certainty that in these days of national
scurry the State that handicaps its supply
of brain power will be left behind the proces-
sion, with its eyes full of flying clinkers, it
is not at all clear that the University Tory
has an ordinary, intelligent mind. In view
of this mulish kind of opposition, Minister
Carmichael has let it be known that he is
ready to trim his proposals here and there;
but if he lops off so much that a free, broad
pathway from the primary . school to the
University is barricaded against all but the
rich man’s son, he will extinguish, as far
ns he is concerned, the shining star of a great
opportunity.
Fire in Maoriland.
Maoriland is an expensive country to run.
With the exception of the U.S. it raises the
greatest proportional number of fires in the
world, and the cost runs to an annual sum
of about £500,000, or 10s. per head of popu-
lation. Of course, the fact that earth-
quakes come along at irregular intervals,
and that in consequence a very large number
of buildings are constructed of timber, lias
something to do with the annual loss, but
the carelessness of insurance methods and
the absence of proper inquests into the
causes of fires is a very important factor.
If Massey’s alleged Reform party really
wants a job which will tend to improve in
some small measure the financial condition
of the country, it can get to work as sud-
denly as it likes on the whole question of
wasteful blaze. A reduction of fire out-
breaks by 50 per cent, would be the. same in
effect as the wining of something like
£5,000,000 from the account due to Cohen,
and that should be worth while. Also, the
State Fire Insurance business wants to be
tackled in earnest. When the Department
took on the job of insuring the property of
citizens against fire, it did so with the par-
ticular object of reducing rates. It suc-
ceeded in effecting that reduction, and then
proceeded by the exercise of all the readily-
applied insanity it could command to de-
stroy all that it had achieved. Instead of
holding all the insurance risks it had taken,
together with the profits which must accrue
except in some period of unprecedented dis-
aster, the Department looked round for re-
insurances, and found that the existing
Maoriland fire companies felt so hurt in their
balance-sheets and other vital parts that they
wouldn’t touch a penny of Government busi-
ness. Ward's proper course was to have
simply accepted the situation and instructed
the State office to sit down and fake in all
the premiums it could get. Instead of doing
so lie became hysterical, and shouted to the
financial world at large to come and aid
him. One big London concern heard his
wail, and stepped nobly into the breach,
with the result that the Government Firb
Department became little more than an
agency for Cohen or somebody, who didn’t
despise a slice of any profits that might
come along. Admittedly,. the companies pre-
viously doing business iu Maoriland were
charging too much, but where they were
locally ov/ned and controlled, their profits
were at least distributed in the country. The
State fire business is still comparatively
small, and ought to remain small while the
present system continues, but Massey has
the opportunity of freeing the Department
from the bondage into which Wakd sold it,
and making it as big and nationally valu-
able as the Government Life Insurance De-
partment. And that is generally regarded
as quite beyona range of the lialf-brick of
criticism.
♦
The Confused Tale of Brown Brother, or
the Brown Tale of Confused
Brother, or Something of the Sort.
Deab Bulletin, —Seemingly, tlie biggest
hurdle in Maoriland Premier Massey’s
path is the land question.i As William
will not be able to negotiate the obstacle
unless he jettisons his friends, he will in all
probability be found, during the next elec-
tion campaign, explaining why he dodged
the obstruction. It will take a devil of a
lot of explaining. Massey’s people were
elected as the Reform Party. Moreover,
they were alleged to be experts on the land’
question. The incandescent query in M.L.
is not, as the party rags allege, the tenure,,
but closer settlement. The freehold versus:
leasehold wrangle is merely a side issue. At
present it is being exploited as a mark time'
argument. Probably the average person!
has been used to looking no -further ahead!
than next pay day, and 999 years seems a l ,
fairish stretch. The lease in perpetuity-
may not be synonymous with the freehold 1 ,,
but so far as Bill Jones, liis heirs, execu-
tors and assigns, are concerned, it is as near
as dammit. At a land ballot at Dargaville
recently there were 609 applications, repre-
senting 344 individual applicants, for seven
sections. That case is typical. Massey,
while struggling with the problem of pre-
serving his friends’ estates and at the same
time keeping his promise to promote closer
settlement, lias conceived a brilliant idea.
He proposes to appropriate the 1 nd of
Henare Putiki. There is much of it.
Some of it is good, some bad and a lot just-
indifferent. At present Henare does not
utilise it himself. Some of it lie leases to a
foolish pakeha who realises not the joys of
tlie sunbath. Most of it lies idle, its chief
product being the mana which its possession
confers on Henare, his hapu (which is hisi
premises) and his 39 kuris (which are his.
two-score dogs, save one). Once a year
Henare journeys to Wellington to confer
with “Te Mema.” During the session Wel-
lington is deluged with Henare. He adorns,
the landscape with gold stockings and an
odor of defunct shell-fish. He stays six.
days or six months — Henare is the most:
casual fellow in the world. Then he goes;
back to the kainga and contends with land!
boards, Native Councils, Judges, interpre-
ters and other salaried persons. Altogether
Henare puts in the 12 months merely “see-
ing apout te lan’.” At the end of the year
he is no further forrard. This is the person
whom Massey proposes to deprive of liis
job. It is the only job which the present
generation of browns knows or cares about.
According to the late O. Khayyam, “One
thing is certain.” It is this, Henare won’t
take to any more strenuous form of toil.
Therefore, if Massey annexes his brown
brudder’s land he must be prepared for one
or two things. _ Either he will have to pay
Henare a pension—there are some 40,000 of
him, and his ideas of plain living include
motor-cars, race meetings, and 14 feeds per
diem —or he will have to barricade Parlia-
ment House against an avalanche of clamor-
ing natives. In the latter case Henare
would not stay six days or six months ; he
would be a permanent clamorer. Also,
being conspicuous by his numbers and
general dilapidation, he would be pointed out
to the stranger as the innocent whom
Massev had robbed. The stranger, if he
played the game, would write to the Mother-
land describing the awful treatment meted
out to brown brother, and capital would
lower its tail and flee over the horizon.
Then the Treaty of Waitangi would be
dragged from i'ts lair and made to caper in
the market place. By the time the news-
papers had finished with the aged treaty
Massey would be politically dead. But not:
Henare. He would thrive on the game. li\
the end the country would have to- fit him
out with land, billiard tables, race horses,,
aeroplanes and seed potatoes what time it:
cursed the defunct Bill Massey. This is;
the form of suicide Massey talks of per-
petrating. Maybe'it’is only a ruse to divert:
attention from the big pakeha estates, while
Bill prays that a short-memoried peonle
may forget his loud-mouthed clamoring for
reform. If so, it is not likely to be success-
ful.' On the other hand, it is possible that:
Massey, seeing nothing but felo-de-se.
ahead, has chosen the least painful method!..
—Yours, etc., Maori Mac.
Now that 41 men have been grilled or suffo-
cated, the Tasmanian Mines Department
has ordered a second way of escape to be
made from the North Lyell mine. Unfor-
tunately the 41 men will not be able to take
it; but even tlnur corpses should have
mouths to demand a definite reply to this


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. ..and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
'H
j Theatres Now.
Every new theatre we add to those we already have enables us
to give you just a little bit more for your money.
The New One —The Empress, N.Z.
is the first of a chain that, when completed, will cover every
important City in the Dominion.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
question: Why, in view of the Aon, was a
second exit not provided long ago? -for
months past the Lyell branch of the engine-
drivers’ association, in particular, has been
trying to get the plain provision of the law
enforced, preferably by a connection with
the Lyell Blocks workings, only 160 ft. away
at the 1000 ft. level; but, though Govern-
ment inspectors knew the facts, and pre-
sumably knew also the dangers, the mine
was permitted to remain a death-trap. The
whole business should be sifted unsparingly
to the bottom. Were any official represen-
tations made on the subject? If so, why
were they over-ruled or disregarded? And
were any counter-representations made, and
if so, by whom? Somebody took the risk of
deliberately disobeying the law. Now it is
up to somebody to take the penalty of fail-
ure. _ And it is the first duty of the Tas-
manian Government to set the machinery in
motion for finding out who that somebody is
—or who those somebodies are. There is to
be a Commission of Inquiry. That Commis-
sion’s job should not be to inquire whether
the mine was safe or not, that having been
sufficiently proved already, but to ascertain
who was responsible for such a grievous
fracture of the law.
The Cheap Editor.
J. H. Catts, of the Co-operator, concerning
a matter lately Plain Englished:—
“One story is good till the other is told,” has
special application to the article in B. 24/10/’l2,
headed “The Cheap Editor.”
The article, based, it is asserted, upon evidence
given by our sub-editor before the Wages Board, is
the first we knew about the matter. We are surprised
to learn that evidence of such an extraordinary char-
acter could have been submitted. Here are our re-
plies to the assertions:- —
1. “Wrote 10 columns of original matter on an
average every week.”—Answer: Three to four columns
average would be a liberal estimate. And, generally
speaking, the matter is not of the kind requiring
authentication of facts or other preparation.
2. “Has to read proofs of the whole for libel
and printer’s errors.” —Answer: All matte, set up is
read and corrected in the composing room. The sub-
editor has to exercise general supervision of this
work, which has already been done by proper proof
readers. He has, of course, to look out for libel-
lous contributions, but this does not refer to the
editor’s or sub-editors’ work, nor to the advertising,
which' is about a fourth of the matter. In fact, it
has reference more particularly to probably half of
the contributed matter.
3. “Sub-edits a number of pages of matter, which
means largely re-writing.”-—Answer: Contributed mat-
ter has, of course, to be sub-edited. Re-writing does
not amount to more than a column per week.
4. “Arranges the make-up of the paper.”—Answer:
But without qualification this is an exaggeration.
The various classes of matter have their regular
places. The comps., who actually make up the
paper into pages, have, of course, to be directed.
5. “A certain amount of reporting,” etc. —The only
reporting the sub-editor does is in connection with
the Labor Council, which he also attends as a dele-
gate from his union. If some special occasions arise
he may be asked to report, but their rarity is such
that, unless they were noted, it would be almost
impossible to remember the instances.
The Bulletin measures up the Co-operator mat-
ter, the length af column, number, etc., and says
64 columns, each 23 inches in length, giving 207
lines per column. The columns are 23i inches.
Here is a little table showing in inches how the
matter was contributed as far as last week’s issue is
concerned (an average over the last year’s work
would not be more favorable to the allegations
made) :
Pages. Editor. Sub-editor. Advts., etc. Contributed.
1 6B 120
2 30 57 101
3
4 82 34 31 41
5 94 16 7B
6
7
8
Totals 206 118 482 698
The advertising is in charge of a specialist, both
as to its setting and location in the paper; and of
the contributed matter page six is handled entirely
by the advertising manager, whilst page three is
contributed by a sporting writer, and requires very
little supervision. The matter written by the sub-
editor is Chiefly on page one. It was never asked
for, and wouldn’t affect the sale of a single paper
if it were dropped out, and selected, instead of ori-
ginal, matter were inserted in its stead.
The sub-editor has never complained of the amount
of work he has to do, nor has he ever asked for
assistance. In fact, a very short time ago he pro-
posed that he should provide the matter for the
sporting page, supplied by a sporting contributor.
Later on, again, lie proposed to take part in advt.
canvassing.
On Wednesdays (publishing day) the sub-editor
has to be on deck from eight to 10 hours. On Thurs-
days and Saturdays he is rarely ever seen. On
Mondays, Tuesdays" and Fridays he is at the office not
more than four hours a day. He does no work at the
office at night (except Wednesdays) or on Sundays.
Indeed, some little time ago he was asked to sug-
gest some regular working hours for himself and his
assistant, but has never responded. We have now
arranged for a working roster, which will ensure a
working week of 42 hours.
Some time ago, the unions representing journal-
ists, wrote, asking us to agree to a set of conditions.
We replied that we had no staff then affected by the
claims, but at any future time we would gladly pay
any rate awarded for any employees engaged in our
office. The sub-editor was working under an agree-
ment. Later we were served with a copy of claims
lodged before a Wages Board. We made no reply,
contested no item, and made no arrangement to be
represented, as we determined not to oppose any rate
for assistants on weekly journals. We are paying
£lO per week for assistance to the editor. We can-
not afford, under present circumstances, to pay more.
It matters not to us what rates are laid down for our
assistants. If our present expenditure is increased, it
simply means that we shall be compelled to do with-
out the assistance, and conduct our enterprise on
such modest lines as shall enable us to live within
our income.
And a word or two thereupon from the man
who did the swearing before the Wages
Board —
’Tis a pretty miserable dispute, to make the best
of.it. with a trades-union secretary and a trades-
union journal. But the gauntlet is down —it must be
picked up. Mr. Catts is a politician. He has de-
veloped a politician’s methods of calling a man a
liar. I am not a politician. The Writers and
Artists’ Wages Board is now sitting. I am open
to cross-examination on oath. Mr. Catts may
poss bly find it convenient to attend at one of the
Board’s sittings.
The retort courteous:—
1. The evidence was given on oath, “about 10
columns per week, average.” Any respondent news-
paper’s representative can call for proof.
2. As the evidence is plainly admitted, there is
little to be said. But in this case the editor is not
the most astute man in Sydney in evading the law of
libel.
3. This seems to be almost admitted.
4. The “qualification” might have, some merit, but
it’s not very clear.
5. “A certain amount of reporting” seems to be
also admitted.
The nice little table prepared (without my assist-
ance) gives me credit for over five columns of purely
original matter. And that is only one week. I
haven’t got far to go to prove “about 10 columns
average.” But, of course, original matter isn’t hard
to write. “The matter written by the sub-editor”
seems to have dropped very suddenly in the estima-
tion of Mr. Catts. But I won’t have many sleepless
nights over that. It is true that I have never com-
plained. The offer to take part in canvassing must
surely be the result of a bad dream. Mr. Catts and
the Co-operator badly want some canvassing, and
it’s hard to believe he would refuse a free, gratis and
for nothing offer like that.
Re hours, Mr. Catts has now arranged a 42-hour
week, and relieved me of any responsibility of report-
ing duties. Rather a bad time to start to com-
promise, eh?
Mr. Catts says he can’t afford to pay more. That’s
a pretty blue lookout for the staff, anyway. But he
can do without the assistance. He’s been a very
benevolent man for the past three years. If Mr.
Catts will come to the Board, I vyili undertake to
disclose something of the Co-operator finances, and
show him how he could afford to pay whatever the
Board is likely to award.
Concerning an interesting piece of me-
chanism :
In these days of rush, and rattle, and enraged
creditors, and low tariff, and lower politicians, any-
thing that will reduce the wear and tear. on the
nerves of the community deserves an encouraging
reception. With that in mind, a Bulletin man set
out, the other day, to inspect a new voting machine
which William Dali, of Dunedin (M.L.), invented,
and recently brought across to Sydney for private
exhibition. The machine, shown in the Parliament-
ary library, is simplicity itself. It is box-shaped,
and can be made any size. The voter finds the
machine is an enclosed stall. On its face are the
names of, say, six candidates —Smithe, Brownn,
Jjones, O’Heavens, McCohen, Fitzraving. Below each
name is a nob, and the voter, having decided to help
McCohen (as usual), shoves in the nob under that
party’s name. All the voter has to do now is to
cross to the corner pub and drain his mulled rum in
peace, knowing that it was impossible for him or
anybody else to have voted informally, that the
secrecy of the ballot was certain (since, when he
pushed the button home, he merely rang another
number on to McCohen’s lot and one on to the
total of votes cast), that the minute the poll closed
the numbering mechanism enclosed in the case
would show the fatal result, that no recounting
would be necessary, and that no ballot papers could
be lost, stolen or faked. If three men or 10 men or
a dozen men are up for election as senators, public
committee, or what not, the machine can be oper-
ated just as easily as for one man. The voter would
merely shove in three nobs or 10 nobs; but if he
tried to push in an extra one for luck he could only
do it with an axe. Also, he could vote “Yes” or
“No” on a referendum at the same time and in
the same way as he voted for candidates for elec-
tion ; but he couldn’t vote “Yes-No” if he had the
audacity of a whole fiscal fusion.
The ghost of the unlucky steamer Papanui
is not yet laid. The vessel, some consider-
able time ago, struck a rock off Tasmania,
and staggered into Melbourne a partial
wreck. After a tussle with the marine autho-
rities it got away for Japan, to be repaired
on the cheap. Returning to Australia, it
set out to beat the shipping ring, sailed for
London, and there struck a dockers’ strike.
Subsequently it cleared for Australian ports
crammed with emigrants, got as far as St.
Helena, caught fire, and was finally surren-
dered to hard luck. The emigrant consign-
ment was, landed on St. Helena, and the
Government of the Islet has now claimed
£9908 Bs. 7d. from the Papanui’s owners as
cost of feeding 364 famished British sub-
jects. The pending argument as to the lia-
bilities of persons who register themselves
as owners of British ships is expected to
call for the best efforts of a large quantity
of horse-fur.
Henry Hart, of Melbourne, was a man of
his word. He was also a careful one, who
did not forget to issue instructions about a
pair of children’s boots immediately prior
to dressing himself in his best clothes and
hurrying forth to fulfil the promise he had
made that morning to his wife to kill her
with his revolver. Having kept his word, he
waited by until certain that the killing had
been well and truly done. Then he hurried
away, just in time to avoid being worried by
interfering people who had heard the half-
dozen shots. During a long afternoon, he
had a shave, and did various other things
while one policeman and five detectives were
discovering the places where he had been
seen last. Hart kept ahead of them, and it
was some time after 9 p.m. when a message
reached Russell-street that his body was
waiting for them in Carlton. The fugitive
had called on a friend, and used his rront-
room sofa to commit suicide on. It wasn’t
a very friendly act, but the self-slayer was a
boarder, and. presumablv, hadn’t a sofa of
his own. Then, too, some people have a
rooted objection to being ill or dead in a
boarding-house. Others hate even to be alive
in one.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Tne Quaker Giri.”
Palace “The Unseen Eye."
Adklphi ... “ At Cripple Creek.”
Royal “BenHur.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial Continuous Pictures.
Empress Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Glaciarium ) ~, ~ .
Olympia I " ests Pictures.
Eden Gardens, Manly.. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Nightbirds.” *
Princess’s “ The Sins of Society.”
Kino’s “ The Span of Life.”
Royal “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Wtrths’ Park Wirths’ Circus.
Arcadia, St. Kilda .... The Dandies.
Athenleum Ha 11...... Margaret Cooper.
—♦<
The new play of that whirlwind ot mental
energy, Randolph Bedford, was let go on
Saturday night at the Palace Theatre, under
the management of Talbot Dtd., and the title
of “The Unseen Eye.” It will not make Mr.
Bedford famous, nor the Talbot syndicate
rich. Nevertheless, it is a sizeable contri-
bution to the growing collection of home-
made plays, although it has nothing distinc-
tively Australian in either its construction or
its dialogue. Its story is hung on the old
frame where the exact positions and charac-
teristics of virtue, honesty and villainy are
as unchangeable as the three balls of Lom-
bardy. As usual, the hero could not prove
that he was anything else than the hero,
even if he merely had the Sugar Commis-
sion to deal with; the villain had apparently
just hurried round from his last job, bring-
ing with him the papers that have been miss-
ing with maddening regularity since the
drama was patronised by Nimrod in the
Municipal Theatre of Babel (which was
afterward Babylon), when the Deluge was
still the rain standard for the oldest inhabi-
tant ; the heroine was all that man, from a
traditional point of view (which is mostly
all he has to go on), could desire ; rascality
got it in the neck at the usual time; and
Virtue gathered up its rewards and retired to
enjoy a comfortable and pot-bellied old age,
at an hour suitable for suburban patrons.
That is one side of “The Un-
seen Eye.” On the other, the
play-smith provides a consistent
and interesting story, which illus-
trates some of the bowelless
methods of the wild cat Company
promoter. The meeting of direc-
tors of “The Blue Duck Gold
Mining Co.” (Act 2) was cleverly
written in to demonstrate the
aching void where bowels are
generally located. Also, there is
some (not enough) of the cham-
pagne personality of Bedford in
the dialogue. Rascality assures!
Roguery that it is a difficult world to starve
in. “There are,” he says, “30 fools born
every minute, and they die at the rate of
three a year.” Finally,’ Bedford has done
some sound character building in the play.
Roderick Speed, the brains of the Blue Duck
and other swindles, is a clinking good study,
and George E. Bryant’s portrayal of the part
is something that cannot but advance both
his own and the author’s reputations. Bed-
ford has made all his characters distinct
types, and his ambitions in this direction
were, in one or two cases, on Saturday night,
beyond the ability of the players. Still the
acting, with the exception of that of the
villain (Richard Bellairs as John Proctor,
swindler), might have been very much worse.
Bellairs, by his exaggeration of stock vil-
lainy, was a bad flaw in the work. Madge
Mclntosh did what was required of har in a
manner to be expected from one who has had
a long and varied experience in the heroine
trade. Mabel Russell, as the type of
faithful slavey which this long-suffering coun-
try knoweth not; Maggie Knight, as “the old
cat” of the family; Margherita Bedford, the
tender, crippled girl; John Howard and John
Forde, as a bright pair of ornaments over-
looked when the adjacent gaol was being
furnished ; Ronald Macleod, as a young ass ;
and Gilbert Howell, as a tame burglar, were
all in part responsible for the satisfactory
reception given the play by a packed audi-
ence.
“The Unseen Eye” will be glued on the
man who burgles Roderick Speed’s safe
until further warning.
* * * *
On Saturday next “The Quaker Girl,” of
melodious memory, returns to Her Maj-
esty’s, where, for the past fortnight, the
harsh music of toil has alone been heard.
** * *
At the end of this week, the bright and
tuneful “Dorothy” makes way for “Ben
Hur” at Sydney Royal. Lew Wallace’s re-
ligious romance draws like an ocean tug,
and the box office is certain to be troubled
with hordes of people eager to see Ben start
the play by knocking a stone from the
crumbling parapet on to the helmet of the
passing conqueror. The play is a rushing
series of fine spectacles, ending in a burst
of devotional singing and a trickle of leper-
healing, miracle-confetti from a hole in the
sky. .Presumably the stuff is poured out by
a careful unionist angel in a boxer hat and
shirt sleeves; unfortunately he isn’t visible
from the front, and the ending can only be
distinguished from a church service by the
absence of the collection-plate.
J. Rufus Wallingford, having got rich
quick at Sydney Criterion, announces his
retirement in favor of Maggie Moore, who
on Saturday next will show (for the 4000th
time) how she got rich quick by Striking
Oil.
The triple bill of the Sydney Stage Soci-
ety at the Standard, on the 22nd inst., up-
held this society’s reputation for interesting
work. Wilde’s “A Florentine Tragedy,” a
wordy play, was, except as to G. Kaye
Souper, inadequately cast. Miss Coletti’s
fine stage appearance was not reinforced by
an understanding conception of the part.
Arthur H. Adams’s grim “morality,” “Dr.
Death,” also suffered a little from its repre-
sentation, though Austin Loughnan repeated
his fine performance of the doctor. As the
Man, Oliver King lacked a little of the
necessary fire, though he was otherwise
satisfactory. Shaw’s “The Man of Des-
tiny” provided the best performance of a
noteworthy evening, Adrian Stephen’s por-
trayal of the real Napoleon being on a
very high level and altogether Shavian. Mrs.
Suttor, in the difficult part of the lady, was
fairly satisfactory, and Mr. Gilbert Nathan,
a failure in the Wilde play, acted a con-
genial part with entire naturalness. The
fare provided delighted the large audience.
“The Girl Who Took the AVrong Turn-
ing” at the Adelphd, will reform to-morrow
night, and take the right one,, which
will land her right out of sight. The
void will be filled by “At Cripple
Creek,” a peaceful, Sunday-at-home sort of
“THE UNSEEN EYE,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
The mechanical age and the new heroes. Vil-
lainy outwitted by Randolph Bedford's honest
phonograph and clever camera.
play, which costs G. Marlow a fortune every
night for gunpowder and stretchers alone.
“Cripple Creek” trickled through the
Adelphi about 14 months ago, but on this
occasion it will have a new crew, with Miss
Ethel Buckley at the wheel.
* :]! *
Burns and Bentley are the principal new-
comers at the Tivoli this week. The man-
agement labels th'&m “The Acme of Simul-
taneous Movement,” and they earn good
money by living up to the title. Their step-
dancing is 11 paces ahead of what Tiv-goers
have been subjected to lately; and when they
get their hair cut this paper will pour its
most sugary adjectives over them. Claude
Leplastrier, lightning artist, is another,
newcomer, whose work would be more ap-
preciated if he used local scenes. The
comedy sketch of Crawford and Lesly would
be improved if somebody ran a reaper and
binder over it. Even a .pair of shears or an
axe might do something with it. Others who'
are keeping the wolf from the Mclntosh
doorstep are Nella Webb, the popular poser;
D’Arc’s Marionettes; Mozetto; and Margo,
the mysterious barmaid.
The moral of “Legitimate Defence,” at
Sydney _ Lyric, seems to be that a little
actress is a dangerous thing. In this case,
the dangerous thing, out of pure devilmept
and to win a wager, undertakes to subtract
from a lady the affections of her husband.
At somewhere between 200 ft. and 250 ft.
from the judge’s box she succeeds. But just
at the post, the wife has her say, with a re-
volver, and the film winds out without doing
anything definite to anyone except the
actress. “The Warwick Weekly Chronicle,”
containing a fair assortment of happenings
throughout the world, and “The Smuggler’s
Daughter” were the principal also-rans.


810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Prise. Is- 6d. and a&.*
To Agents:
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1912
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations by “Hop,” Alf Vincent,
Norman Lindsay and all the leading represen-
tative artists, will be the finest Black and
White Work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the National humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the
annual reflection of the life and thoughts of our
country, and therefore useful as well as inter-
esting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates,
but, in consequence of the heavy outlay on this
Special Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 16th NOVEMBER to en-
sure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.;
Foreign Addresses, 9d.
Insure
with the
*
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charsed. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
’ Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
The hydroplane makes its debut at Syd-
ney Lyceum this week in a Wall-street
sharebroker picture. While “The Unseen
Eye” was exposing the ways of various
stock-exchange sharks hereabouts, “The
Money Kings” was having a go at the
Yankee system. The central figure is a
woman, who after 3i rounds gets the better
of the brokers, and then flits in a hydro-
plane. The opening of the Prince Alfred
Yacht Club season was the local film; and
an adaptation of “Rock of Ages” was a good
third.
** * *
That very profitable show, Tiny Town,
concluded its Sydney season on Tuesday
night, and is heading for Perth; thence,
after a fortnight’s season, it invades South
Afripa. Beaumont Smith, the boss, rolled
the flavor of the ambrosia on his tongue and
yarned about the profits: “We started as a
co. with 25 shares at £25 each. I held the
controlling interest, and the artists did not
share profits. The first fortnight of the
tour, in Adelaide, paid back the capital, and
in 12 months we have paid divs. equal to
500 per cent. The Australian tour will
finish in the West in a month’s time, and
we expect then to declare another 50 per
cent., which means that in 13 months we
will have shown a divvy of 550 per cent., or
about £14,000. The African tour I will run
as my own speculation. After that? I
dunno. May take the show East or to
Canada. Meantime, I’ve been re-christened
Beaumont Smith Enterprise, Ltd., with a
capital of £6OOO and some important attrac-
tions up my sleeve for next year. So-long.”
* * * *
“The Sins of Society,” produced by Mar-
low and Willoughby for the carnival season
at Melbourne Princess’s, is about the weak-
est drama that Raleigh and Hamilton ever
built for the big Drury Lane stage. In the
effort to keep the plot’s chief motive from
rushing to the front at the outset, so to
speak, the authors have held it back until
the audience gets tired of looking for it in
a crowded field of incidents. A virtuous
heroine and hero seem to be hiding their
importance under a bushel, whilst an im-
pressive male schemer, to whom money is
no object, lures a conspicuously winsome
lady into financial difficulties. Why he
should be always playing Mephistoplieles to
this attractive lady is something of a mys-
tery for as long as the audience retains any
curiosity on the subject. By the time he
has supplied her with a bottle of morphia,
which she empties into the whisky of a
money-lender (on whom she had, at her
tutor’s suggestion, rung the changes be-
tween a diamond ta-ra-ra and a pen’orth of
coal) prior to purloining the wrong box and
leaving it in the care of her sister’s young
man, who happens to be looking for burglars
on a foggy night—by the time the old mor-
phia trick comes to pass, the plot has ceased
to excite conjecture; and Curiosity is too
tired to raise any astonishment on learning
that the impressive schemer has been lead-
ing the beauteous Lady Marion into costly
temptations and horrible dilemmas in order
that she might merely accept him for a
brother-in-law in preference to the good
young man who was burdened with the box
of coal on the dark night aforesaid.
* * * *
The plot is too elaborately ridiculous for
the small amount of human interest that
attaches to the characters. Moreover, the
principal scenic effects are shrouded in a
suspicion that they are only ghosts of their
original Drury Lane selves. The race for
the Grand Prix at Longchamps has no
horses on the job; the raid on the burglars’
swag-house, or whatever it is, begins in
vagueness and ends in unaccountable con-
fusion ; the alleged sinking of the Beachy
Head troopship is a befogged enigma; and
the five chorister boys, who don’t sing the
“Voice that Breathed” at the marriage
which never takes place, appear to be girls
disguised in black frocks and white pina-
fores. “The Sins of Society,” as produced
at the Princess’s, has some good stuff in it,
but it was worth doing better if worth
doing at all. Probably the melodrama that
•deals with duchesses and centres in a dia-
mond ta-ra-ra was not worth doing at all
for the entertainment of a public that wants
onions with its tripe, or ditties with its
Doone.
. Miss Violet Paget, as the society gambler-
ette, sins gracefully, whilst Plugh Buckler,
of the noble voice, is her gloomy guide tp
trouble. Miss Harvey presents a floridly
ingenuous young sister, Kenneth Brampton
is her pleasing young man, Miss Clavering
puts up a new and strange record for
haughty-duchess impersonation, Charles Law-
rence gives a well-groomed impersonation of
the money-lender who advances £7OOO with-
out being so vulgar as to mention interest,
and Miss Pollock is an incidental cat who
takes down the artless kitten for £230 at
bridge. Miss Nellie Mortyne plays a cheer-
ful part zest and unforced humor,
D’Arcy Kelway being her comparatively
crude companion in polite comic relief. On
the rare occasions when she is dissociated
from her persistent funny man, Miss Mor-
tyne’s character is the most reasonable as
well as the most popular item of a fairly
strong all-round performance.
* * * sic •
“The Whip” is cast out of the Royal
to-night (Thursday) by “Get-Rich-Quick-
Wallingford,” late of Sydney. For a good
many weeks past the Royal has been the
haunt of spectacular melodrama wherein the
wicked came to various sorts of grief. “Wal-
lingford” will present unrighteousness in a
more pleasing light on Saturday, and, mean-
while, one consecutive performance of
“Raffles” will pave the way for the new
Williamsonian bill and co. A smart ama-
teur company is to play “Raffles” on Friday
in aid of two charities, under the patronage
of their Excellencies and the Next Best
people.
* * * *
At Her Majesty’s the prosperous revival
of “Florodora” has to make room for
“Nightbirds,” on Saturday.
The King’s changes its show and its co.
in accordance with Derby Night tradition.
Bert Bailey’s seven weeks “On Our Selec-
tion” ends on Friday, and then the Ander-
sonian tourists, headed by Eugenie Duggan,
will reproduce “The Span of Life,” with the
original chasms and spasms of long ago.
5jC
Margaret Cooper brought her cultured
soprano and pleasing personality back to
Melbourne on Saturday night, when she
commenced a farewell season at the Athe-
naeum ; and a good audience testified to the
fact that there are quite a lot of people who
prefer Margaret-on-the-piano to Henley-on-
the-Yarra. Several of her old ditties, in-
cluding the one anent Agatha Green, were
given by Miss Cooper with her usual skill,
and among her new offerings was Jack Can-
not’s “I’ll Build a Gunyah for You,” an
“Australian coon song” dealing with bro-
ther Binghi in an amorous mood. Charles
Lawrence has replaced the imported and by
no means phenomenal Scott-Leslie as the
tame male humorist of the co.; and Oreste
Manzoni manipulates the mandoline, and
compels the house to make a glad noise_ when
he provides a dose of Offenbach—the inevit-
able barcarolle, of course. Horace Whitty,
whose pleasing baritone would be more
pleasing were its possessor less obviously
pleased with himself, contrives to supply a
mildly sentimental tinge to the entertain-
ment.
* * * *
Hillary Long, who stands on his head
with more ease and grace than many persons
display when standing on their feet, is the
most notable performer at Wirths’ circus,
which is attracting so much of Melbourne as
is prepared to allow its sense of smell to be
outraged so long as its sense of sight is
gratified. When Mr. Long journeys down a
staircase on his head, everybody speculates
as to how much the upside-down gentleman
is paid for his trouble. Mildly remarkable
turns are supplied by Kitchen and Foy,
trampoline artists, and by a couple of cit-
zens named Bastien, who accomplish a head-
to-head balance while on mokeback. The
brass band or the income tax or something
proved too much for a couple of the animals
of Wirths during the week, the result being
“FLORODORA,” AT
HER MAJESTY'S ,
MELBOURNE.
Cyrus W. Gilfain ,
the millionaire.
Max Aepfelbaurn.
the demise of a grizzly bear of some emin-
ence, and the passing out of a monkey which
failed to rejoice in the name of Skinny.
3c * 3=
The three Sisters Macarte on Saturday
put in an appearance at a renovated Opera
House, in which the raptures and roses of
red plush are mitigated by the lilies and
languors of white enamel. The Misses
Macarte do nothing new in the way of danc-
ing or wire-walking, but they do it prettily
enough in an attractive stage-setting repre-
senting a scene in the land where Bruce
Smith’s dear saffron brother lives and occa-
sionally performs hari-kari. The Max
Franklin troupe of acrobats consists of four
bouncing boys who display some of the
qualities of indiarubber balls or lady can-
vassers. F. Bluett (who at present relies
too much on his smile to win a larf), Thos.
Bentley (Dickens impersonator), and W.
Whitburn are also among those present. The
programme announces, in deafening type,
the reappearance next Saturday of Florence
Baines, remembered by this paper as a lady
who jests about her embonpoint.
si: 3* * y:
The screenings at Melbourne Olympia on
Saturday included “Rock of Ages,” a semi-
religious fantasy showing a damsel in a
nightie clinging to a cross what time an
angry old ocean drowns her utterly dead.
“The Leap to Death” was another subject
for the morbidly-minded, the hero of the
tale passing through incredible adventures
before he hits the bottom of a chasm, and
is found by his donah as a nicely folded up
collection of broken bones. As regards “The
Hazards of Life,” which also ran, the un-
reasonable goodness of a prospective co-re.
stood out like one lemon squash on a tray
of liqueurs. *
Last Saturday, Melbourne Majestic fea-
tured “The Gambler’s Mother,” and sad was
the tale it told. Drifting in and out of
the plot is a semi-omnipotent party who
leaves the gambler deep in the financial
soup and shanghais his missus and all that
he hath. The villain, of course, quite
accomplishes his ends ; he takes on the lady
with her turned-up nose and large helping
of chest, and leaves the gambler with little
besides his heart-broken mother, his con-
science and his boots. The piece has a
topical moral, but its interest to the average
person lies in its quantity of high, and often
rorty. emotion. Some of the embraces in
the piece are really so long that there should
be an adjournment for lunch half-way.
At St. Ivilda-by-the-Sea the conflict of
open-air shows is raging furiously. Brans-
combe’s new theatre, which has a canvas
roof ready for emergencies, was to be opened
at the beginning of this week by The
Dandies. The former home of the St. Kilda
Yacht Club, opposite the Pier, is the front-
age to Branscombe’s place of business; and
The Dandies strut their little hour or two
on a stage at the back.
*i* 'l*
A strong Williamson co. has been scoring
at Adelaide Royal in pretty-good American
drama. “Jimmy Valentine” is remarkable
for having the least bashful heroine and the
most hard-lying hero on record. Hilda
Spong is the one, Desmond the other. Beatty
is the futile detective, and among the strong
support Herbert Leigh and Robert Whyte
score most. Herbert Myers has secured for
this house both “Ben fiur” and “Kismet,”
about which there had been some doubt. At
the Tivoli, the first part is dead, slain by
Mclntosh. There never was any convinc-
ing reason why a dozen more-or-less hand-
some girls, sitting round and looking bored,
should add to the gaiety of things ; but this
critic regrets the change, being no longer
able to drop in at 9.15 with a pleasant cer-
tainty of having missed nothing of import-
ance. The programme is otherwise much
as before, with the Schenks, seemingly reck-
less but really clever and sure, as chief
attraction. The Francois, at the King’s, do
much the same thing, Mr. C. tells some new
stories, and Herbert Clifton of the double
voice presents some strange females. The
Corrick family—a whole show in themselves
—are in their final week. The picture shows
are steadily getting more and more melo-
dramatic. The Empire puts up “Platform
of Death,” West’s a thrilling “Human
Hearts,” and Wondergraph an astonishing
story of a prowling lion. Other shows have
been many, including an Edward Reeves
“Othello” recital, Shaw’s “How He Lied to
Her Husband,” by clever amateurs at the
Lyric, concerts by the Orpheus Society and
by pianist Brewster Jones, and fetes and
rose shows innumerable.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A Sydney city property, the Savoy Hotel, in Market-
street, was offered for sale last week at auction, and
failed to get a bid. The Savoy is on the site of the
City Theatre, opened in 1843 by Belmore and Bel-
held. On the opening night an address, written by
Mr. William a’Beckett, afterwards Judge in N. S.
Wales and first Chief Justice of Victoria, was spoken
by Frank Nesbitt McCron, an actor who played under
the stage name of Nesbitt. The walls of the theatre
stand. The “City” ceased to be a theatre in
1851, or about. In the first ’7o’s it was a music
hall, conducted on Oriental lines by Mr. Michael
Hegartv, from Melbourne. The Burdekins own the
property.
“0.K.”: If Sarah Bernhardt was only 68 on her
birthday last week she is a somewhat old star-
actress for her age, judging by West’s picture of
her performance as Queen Bess. She walks through
the film-drama on legs which are obviously shaky
beneath her heavy regal skirts, and she misses no
chance to catch hold of something—man, woman or
furniture—for support. Probably Bernhardt is
older than 68, though the figures are in accordance
with all statements of her age for the past 20 years.
When she came to Australia in 1891 she was said
to be verging on 47. But the fact remains that she
had made her name in Paris sometime previous to
the Franco-Prussian war of 1870. She was then the
famous Sarah whose leanness served for caricature
long after she had added a stone or two of flesh to
her famous bones. From 1870 to 1912 is 42 years.
Hardly likely that she had come to be a recognised
queen of tragedy in critical Paris when she was
younger than, say, 25.
“Hafiz”,: The newly-decorated Opera House (Melb.)
has a legend over the dress-circle door, done in
Arabic, which, translated, means “Welcome to the
House of the Lord.”
Apropos Adelaide’s Theatre Royal (B. 24/10/’l2).
Wybert Reeve, who died in London in November,
1906, was lessee and manager from 1889 to 1900.
During his tenancy over 1000 pieces were performed
in the house. Reeve came to Australia in 1878.
Like Jefferson, Shiel Barry and one or two others,
he is mainly remembered by one character, Count
Focso, in “The Woman in White.” He appeared in
the part about 1500 times. Besides being an actor
he was an entertaining writer. He had been a pro-
vincial manager of some note in England, and such
actors as Charles Mathews, William Dow, Sothern,
Charles Dillon, Walter Montgomery and other big
people had had desirable engagements with him. For
one thing, the ghost always walked when Wybert
Reeve was at the head of things.
The question of Sunday shows or no Sunday shows
continues to arouse animated discussion in London.
An antiquarian authority points out that, even if
all the theatres do throw open their doors on the
Day of Rust, it will not be by any means a novelty in
the history of the English stage. There was a time
when Sunday was the regular play-going day. It
was not until 1579 that plays were performed in
London on week days. Queen Elizabeth was present
at the performances of various plavs in Oxford on
Sundays, and James I. was a regular Sunday play-
goer. It is also on record that the Bishop of London
had a performance of Shakspeare’s “Midsummer
Night’s Di-nam” in his town house one Sunday even-
ing in 1631.
A movement has been started at Waterford, Ire-
land, his birthplace, to celebrate the centenary of
William Vincent Wallace, composer of “Maritana,”
“Lurline” and other operas, and resident and music
teacher in Sydney in the 30’s of last century. Wal-
lace’s father was a military bandmaster, and the
son was conducting the orchestra in a Dublin
theatre while still wearing a boy’s knickers. He
married early and incompatibly, and that was why
he resolved to “bury himself’’ in Australia. His
“Maritana” continues to be a top-scorer in popu-
larity with the crowd. The tradition that it was
partially composed in Sydney has little evidence to
support it. Anyway, it was not until 1845, after
he had left Australia, that he was handed in London
the book of words of “Maritana,” though it is just
possible that he may have worked in music that he
had composed in Sydney for other purposes. A
sister, Madame Wallace-Bushelle, a popular vocalist
and music teacher, lived in Sydney for many years
until her death in 1878.
“Harrison O.”: The “combine” revives “Dorothy.”
The story is founded upon a Drury
Lane comedy, “Country Lasses, or the Custom of
the Manor,” which actually contained a Lurcher.
“Dorothy” was first done in the Fog, at the Gaiety,
in 1886. Hayden Coffin and just-dead Marion Hood
figured in the original production. When it was
put on later, at the Prince of Wales’s, tenor Ben
Davies warbled as Geoffrey Wilder. The opera
transpired in Melbourne, at the Princess’s, in 1888.
The original cast included Leonora Braham, as
Dorothy, and Billy Elton, as Lurcher. The opera
was revived later in the year with Nell Stewart in
the name part, and went much “bigger” than before.
In 1902 it eventuated at Her Majesty’s, with Flo
Young in her present part; Howard Vernon again
Squired, and George Lauri Lurched.. Grace Palotta
(Lydia Hawthorne), Maud Chetwynd (Phyllis Tup-
pett) and Claude Bantoek (John Tuppett) were in
the cast. Charles Kenningham was Geoffrey Wilder.
The Adelaide Theatre Royal is the oldest temple
of the drama in Australia that is still in active ser-
vice. It has never been burned down or rebuilt. It
was opened on April 13, 1868, by George Coppin,
the plays produced being “All that Glitters is Not
Gold” and “Aladdin, the Wonderful Scamp.” Among
the actors who appeared were G. H. Rogers, J. R.
Greville, Bill Holloway, Miss St. Denis, Anna Forde
and Julia Milne.
“8.J.”: Fanny Powers, who for years has been
imitating “artists I have seen and heard,” will, about
Christmas time, provide an imitation of a bride,
assisted by one of Adelaide’s male citizens, who pro-
mises to furnish a most convincing impersonation of
a bridegroom. Fanny has been before the vaudeville
public hereabouts for 14 years, having started as
“Little Baby Powers.” She won, and has retained,
a somewhat unique position in the affections of the
“gods,” who look upon her more as a sister than
a songandance artist.
“0.K.”: Hillary Long, the young man who uses
his head for standing purposes and as a means of
locomotion, is the most uniquely wonderful per-
former I ever saw. There’s a want of trimmings
about his turn, yet it would have been quite as im-
pressive at Ricltards’s as at Wirths’ circus, or even
more so. Probably he will remain unique. No other
performer will be trained to do as much with his
head and neck as this remarkable young man does.
His neck, rather than his head, is his fortune. Using
it as an ordinary citizen uses his two legs, he practi-
cally substitutes his head for his feet in balancing
himself under difficult conditions. A Jap acrobat, for
instance, needs a ’brella to steady him whilst sliding
down a wire, which he embraces with his toes. The
man at Wirths’ makes the same journey, upended
with a pad under his skull. He stands on his head
on a swinging trapeze, maintaining his balance with
his neck. And he bumps himself down a little flight
of carpeted stairs on his head, which is an awful
achievement. As the result of long years of this
head-downmost exercise, his chin is now close to his
Adam’s apple in his ordinary way of life. He
started his particular line of business in early boy-
hood, and gradually stiffened his neck, whilst preserv-
ing it from pain and anguish by massage—two
hours of massage after each bout of practice. Evi-
dently he was born with a determined chin.
Edward Reeves, the Adelaide elocutionist and en-
tertainer, has a useful helpmate in Mrs. Reeves.
When he recited some Bleeds that Won the Empire
to a Melbourne audience recently, his spouse chipped
in with a very acceptable rendering of “The Lady
of the Lamp.”
“Harrison O.”: Agreeing with “Stargazer” (B.
24/10/’l2) as to the general rottenness of the topical
verses grafted on to musical comedy ditties and
suchlike, it seems to me that he was unfortunate in
instancing those introduced into Grace Palotta’s
“Tact” song, in “Florodora.” Present writer shares
the opinion evidently held by the audiences at Her
Majesty’s that, in this case, the jingles are of dis-
tinctly better quality than the average. They were
not turned out in a casual sort of way by a mere
mummer, but were fixed up by a well-known Mel-
bourne ink-slinger, whose rhymes have for years found
ready acceptance in a pink-covered weekly, whose
name I will not pollute my typewriter by mentioning.
In fact, with the exception of “Stargazer” and the
present writer it is doubtful if a better man could
have been found for the job.
“0.K.”: The query of “Melb.” as to what the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall will do when the Taits’ hand-
some Auditorium is opened directly opposite to the
old dingy building, strikes me right on my bump of
bizness. The old Athenaeum Hall will do better than
it has done for the past 20 years, I reckon. The
bright rival show place will advertise the time-wom
cave across the street. People pouring out of the
Auditorium will learn of the existence of the lec-
turer, conjurer, or what not, who is about to appear
at the Ath. Sometimes an overflow audience will
trickle across the tram line. Collins-street East
needs a lot of popularising as a show mart, and the
Auditorium will help to supply the want. The very
best thing that can possibly happen to an old-
fashioned house of entertainment is a new-fashioned
house next door. An attractive establishment directly
facing it is the second best thing.
THE EMPTY CHAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Opera House and the Gaiety Theatre the
familiar first part has been abolished, and the chair-
warmer is now a girl of the past.
She passes out, the damsel fair,
With chemical seductions dight;
Who erstwhile sadly warmed the chair
In vaudeville night after night.
The poor girl’s name I never knew ;
No critics loud acclaimed her worth;
She merely served to stock the view,
And yap a bit, and dance a few.
And now she’s simply off the earth.
There was no need of her, ’tis said,
But I shall miss the squatting clan.
What cheek so pink, what lip so red,
What ample calf so full of bran!
It pleased me well to sit and view
Her shapeless shoes, her faded dress—
To watch the things she used to do
Each night, inanely, two by two,
With weird, inhuman listlessness.
We know the ballet girl and all
The other damsels “on” in shows;
But chair girls from the music hall
None ever met, and no one knows.
Their living place no man did mark;
They were unknown to zealous cops;
And now, methinks, in wardrobes dark
They hang neglected, dusty, stark
With cast-off clothes and useless “props.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


%
A Real Panama
l5/0
15/6 for a real Panama—and truly it is
the best value ever offered! The illustration
shows one of the smartest shapes of fine and
even plait, that will not crack in a hurry.
The real Panama is the coolest hat for Sum-
mer wear, and the lightest made, and the
turned-down brim gives ample shade and pro-
tection. Certainly the most economical and
best hat for country wear. All sizes. 15/6
Better qualities—
21'/-, 25/-, 35/-, 5 Gns.
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE,
DAVID JONES LTD.,
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ins
m
Kug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny- Stamp.
Ivugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
■ ♦
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELnANN & CO.,
Wholtsale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
TAKING NO RISKS.
THIS PIETIST : "My dear lady, may we hope
to have your assistance in preventing this
scandalous system of military training fcr
boys?”
THE LADY : “Dear man, I feel so acutely the
injustice to the poor lads that I have deter-
mined never to marry.”
Last week, in Melbourne, the High Court
got the sort of problem to solve that really
appeals to it. The matter concerned some
£32 worth of galvanised iron, stolen by one
Watson, from his employers, James Moore
ancl Sons, and sold by him to a builder
named Creak. Watson was arrested and
punished for his offence; also certain
moneys in his possesion were estreated and
handed over to the Moores, his defalcations
being considerable. The filched iron being
on Creak’s roof, the Moores couldn’t con-
veniently take it off, so they sued him for
its value, and got a verdict from Judge John-
ston. At the same time Creak counter-
claimed for £3l, which he had paid Watson
for the stuff, urging that it should come out
of the moneys seized from the latter. Judge
Johnston allowed his claim also, with costs
of course, and justice went to its corner and
took a brief rest. Then the Moores once more
entered the ring, and argued that, though
they could identify the iron, Creak couldn’t
identify the money, and that, as all the
moneys recovered from Watson wouldn’t
make up the losses he had caused them, they
were entitled to all his cash, as well as their
iron and any other stolen property they
could identify and lay their hands on. The
State Full Court, on appeal, agreed with
them, and told Creak he would have to hand
oyer £32 Is. 6d., with costs, besides losing
his £3l. But Creak, being a fighter, took
the case to the High Court. Griffith, C.J.,
after lengthily expounding as much of the
law as seemed relative to the issue, opined
that, as Moore and Sons had recovered the
iron, or the value thereof, they must refund
the amount out of the recovered moneys, if
it were claimed, so Creak’s appeal was up-
held. Justice Barton, as usual, concurred.
Justice Isaacs, also much as usual, dissented,
holding that Moore and Sons honestly recov-
ered the money from Watson to recoup them-
selves for losses other than concerned the
iron, and therefore its identity was lost;
also that, as Creak’s money was not stolen,
when he paid it away he parted with all
right, title or property in it, and it passed
away from him absolutely, notwithstanding
any false pretences, and he could follow it
no further. It was an interesting point, and
the Court felt quite fatigued when it had
finished with it. Moore and Sons and Creak
also felt rather tired.
Now that the Turks have got their back
to the wall and are fighting for all they are
worth against the invading infidels, one is
reminded of Hackenschmidt’s estimate of
the comparative physical strength of all the
nationalities he had wrestled with. “Hacky”
gave first prize to the Turks. He ascribed
their muscularity and dash not so much to
their temperance as to their national fond-
ness for sweet foods and drinks; also, he
backed his opinion by wetting his own
whistle freely with sweet and frothy summer
beverages.
Just about the silliest publication in the
world is Votes fok Women, which appar-
ently takes Miss Christabel Pankhurst for
its leading pictorial subject. Miss Christa-
bel is a dimpled egotist, posing as an “exile”
in Paris, where, of course,
she could be “pinched” by
the British Government if
it were so stupid as to give
her the further advt. she’s
bidding for. She and “For-
cible Feeding” are the bold-
est head-lined matters in a
recent issue of Votes for
Women. “The abominable
and .illegal expedient of for-
cible feeding” (vide Ber-
nard Shaw) —“the New
Mediaeval Horror,” as some-
body else calls it —is talked
about as though it were a
punishment for suffraget-
tism, whereas the women
who “suffer” it are asking
for it all the time. What
they are suffering from is
the humanity, not the in-
humanity, of the Law. They
are forcibly fed simply be-
cause the Law hasn’t had
the pluck to let one of them
die for the discouragement
of the others, or to reduce
them all to reasonable sub-
mission by denying them
drink until they consented
to take food and terminate
their farcical martyrdom. A
brief official announcement
to the effect that prisoners
who refuse liquid food will
be allowed to perish of hunger and
thirst, would soon put an end to the diffi-
culty. Meanwhile, Votes eok Women pic-
tures Christabel. Pankhurst as particularly
well fed. She evidently takes her corn with
enthusiasm.
* * * *
One of the immediate results of the crack
in the Ma State finances is that Svdney is
not to get the 225 new police rsked for by
Inspector-General Day. The force —or
weakness —is to be increased by 60 men at
most; so all the miles of new suburban
streets will have to put its faith in bolts,
bars and firearms, and the sun will go down
on acres of nervous women-hermits ready to
die of fear when the wandering house-cat
walks across the roof, or the wind takes the
back door in its teeth and shakes it. Some
months ago a man figured it out that there
were nights when the scarce North Sydney
policeman had to do a beat of 37 miles and
guard the lives and homes of 70,000 people.
The policeman who can walk 37 miles in one
night has not yet been invented ; and when
you deduct the time he has to spend lean-
ing up against the local picture shows and
debating with the tramguards. it doesn’t
seem reasonable to expect it of him. Anyone
who has ever walked round a North Sydney
policeman by starlight can see at a glance
that he doesn’t expect it of himself.
In a recent report on the mean age of the
populations of a number of countries, com-
piled from censuses between 1901 and 1906,
Statistician Knibbs publishes the surprising
fact or allegation that the mean age of Aus-
tralian females is about one year and nine
months less than that of the males. Only
America and Canada show similar variations
from the assumed rule that women live
longer than men on the average, and in their
HIS FERVENT GRATITUDE.
CABBY: “I hank the Lord, I ain't as poor as yon!”
cases the discrepancies, are only six months
and four months respectively. In Great
Britain,. Germany, Norway, Sweden and
Italy the mean age of females is greater
than the mean age of males, Sweden show-
ing the highest variation, with females aver-
aging nearly two years more than males.
Sweden is also credited (though perhaps it
should be debited) with the highest average
age all-round, 29.6 years, as against the
mean average of all the countries, 27.15.
Australia’s average is 25.921, which is the
lowest on the list. Knibbs doesn’t state
whether Australia’s peculiarity, before men-
tioned, is owing to its female babies being
born younger, or its women dying younger,
or whether Socialistic legislation has any-
thing to do with it. It may be that John
Smith goes out to his job in the air and
sunshine, while Mary stays at home in a
place where sunshine is scarce and breathing
material second-rate. And the more pack-
ing and congestion there is the worse things
are for Mary.
“Y.Z.”: The little Melbourne weeklies
have printed half-page pictures of the Gov-
ernor-General and suite in miners’ garb, as
they appeared when prowling the bowels of
the earth in a deep mine at Bendigo. It
was a wicked thing to do. By such disloyal
actions the common people are given to see
how much the dignity of the great man de-
pends upon the hang of his pants, and how
essential are a collar and a tie to the main-
tenance of that air of distinction we have
learned to associate with persons of aristo-
cratic pretensions. The Governor-General
and his bodyguard, disguised as working
men, look most depressingly like promiscuous
samples from the lumber room of a metro-
politan waxworks, and the ordinary miner
who has drifted into the picture is endowed
with an imperial dignity by contrast. Thus
is the' people’s reverence for our ancient
institutions undermined, and already one
Melbourne suburban council has passed a
resolution in favor of abolishing the system
of importing foreign bodies to fill guberna-
torial offices. It was a dreadful mistake for
a vice-regal representative to put himself
and his suite in a position in which they in-
vited public attention to the possibility of
their not being worth 7s. a shift.
“Ancient Citizen” writes :
There died recently in Maori land a man who, 49
long years ago, was ordered by a Judge to dance
on the air or to climb a tree by his neck. He was
assured that there was no hope for him, and that
he would he jerked across the Jordan to a dead cer-
tainty. Yet he didn’t jerk. The case was duly con-
sidered at headquarters, and the fiat went forth that
the law should take its course. But the steamship
City of Dunedin, which carried the fiat, was never
heard of from that day to this. The day of hanging
passed without any steamer or any suspension. A
question arose about the legality of signing two
death warrants for one man—it looked like hanging
the same man twice. The question also arose: Sup-
posing the man was banged on a second order, and
the first order afterwards turned up, would he have
to be dug up and hanged again? Also, other ques-
tions arose. In the end, it was made a case of life
imprisonment, and the life imprisonment sort of
died out after 21 years. The man who was nearly
hanged twice lived 28 years afterwards under an
assumed name, and prospered greatly. Also, he was
an esteemed citizen, and it was only after his death
that certain things leaked out.
MUD ON THE MARBLE.
T HIS: “How goes it, deah boy?”
THAT: "Wot ten, old chappie! With all the e
beastly assisted immigrants about, Austra-
lians can't wecognise the weal thing no w,
don't you know.”
THE LIGHT GENERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To take a situation light
I’m willing quite and able;
When I am in the mood I might
Consent to “lay the table.”
Tlie only things I wash are plates,
And, oh 1 they are so greasy.
Whilst poor old Missus does the grates
I make the beds —that’s easy.
The rough work is her special care—
I draw the line at scrubbing;
The vegetables I prepare
When furniture she’s rubbing.
She sweeps the carpets, cleans the knives ;
l fuss about the larder.
We live a pair of simple lives,
And Missus grafts the harder.
My figure trim is all my own ;
I’m never in a flurry ;
The Missus is but skin and bone,
Because she’s such a worry.
Her faded hair is out of curl,
Whilst mine is brown and wavj r —
But still I’d like to keep a “girl”
And be the married slavey.
Two servants Mr. Master keeps—
The girl his wife engages,
And she, his wife, who works and weeps
And gets no settled wages.
One’s lot in life, we both agree,
Is as the fates may will it.
She often says she envies me;
I wish I had her billet.
VICTORIA.
O. E.


Half the
Trouble
Mrs. L. Whitney , of Enmore , Sydney,
writes :
“ Washing isn’t half the
trouble it used to be now I
use Sunlight Soap. I don’t
have to boil the clothes at
all, yet they look whiter and
newer than if . I boiled them
for hours with the old-
fashioned kind of soap.”
“ And what is more, Sun-
light Soap doesn’t crinkle
and chap my hands.”
COOD
SUhucHT
LAUNDRY SOAP
Beautiful Finger Nails.
Would you like to have your nails possess
that pink, shiny, shelly appearance that is
so attractive ?
If so, use
De Leon’s
Nail Polishing Powder.
A dainty toilet specially obtainable in 1/6
boxes from Washington H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co., all Chemists, and
the proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,
Melbourne.
J
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT g CO , Melbourne,
for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
STRIPED "AERO” CRASH
WASHING SPITS, 22/6
Nothing more desirable in‘style or material could be procured at this
price than our “Aero” Striped Crash Washing Suits.
They are made up in our “No veste” styles—ready to wear.
“Aero” Crash is a light, unshrinkable material of serviceable quality,
which will appeal particularly to men desiring cool summer cloth-
ing. It does not soil quickly.
Style as illustrated, in fawn ground with blue or 'green stripes
about jj-inch apart, 22/0.
Patterns posted if desired. Please state chest, waist and inside leg
measurements, and add Is. per suit extra when ordering.
New Catalogue—just from the press—mailed on request.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ir;
forS!.'’’lV,arL n p or £fin-y Ul r rb ° f C ,°- Ul ' g ;
tonneilj 1 entudge, has just been proclaimed
a town. The penal settlement there arose
through the construction of the so-called Syd-
ney-road by convict labor. The workers
ridge.“and l high'bTuestone wall!'enclosing
the entire penal grounds, was built bv the
prisoners. Dean O’Hea, familiarly known as
"the Dane,” was a wealthy Pentridge resi-
Imaltered 'to'V'ohiir caused le nanie to
* * ‘ * *
“Bloggs” : The cant of these professional
men acts on me even as a small boat, littered
with rine mackerel, in a choppy sea. FTin-
stans, Barrister Garland seriously told the
N. S. Wales Council this, last week :
When a man is once stamped with the imprimatur
of the Court, the Court then says to the people, “We
guarantee that you may trust this person. We cer-
tify him to be a fit and proper person, and, there-
fore, it is that you may unhesitatingly place that
unbounded confidence in him which a client in many
cases gives, and has to give, to his solicitor.
It is a matter of common knowledge that in
more than one city of Australia there exist
persons “stamped with the imprimatur of
'tb & busines s of
the bnno nUfindino- !L 0 0^ e newspapers m
lisf, ' t f,of TP ir ,r W may f b i
v, I t 1 1? vt if y f, suc ™ ful
hi,n in 'il Imv iii™ <a iif " e f 6 , d a y? d lUge
from l, p rini mi Ct • hush ' l 2? B ? y
fliis himimfi- | htie ls profit in
S ® 06 many papers
L ' , ni( i im').,.,'/ 1 .,in1-io/! 11 !! aCe “' fb Taw s de-
Conrf” fired in u!ft n ° r o ° , -I 10
le nJrfw wit b i /' g tiytlney daily
rtIK S = il' i 6
h-i'd consul fed Hie cit,vin fi?’ an< hef . oie . he
therohv A^ 1 the Tiff I )re .U l( ticod
been even miickor ‘tb 0 , le pa P el ' had
inio bnncli w irh e mai j’ h" (1 . uu .
e I , njured
jiarty an hour previously, the attorney’s ruse
failed. He only escaped prosecution because
and h m ate n d age needless a timnhle Who M lo ? d FT**
tralia’s lll i ° f
rfi ntorin dfex 2h d r exploits
are notoriously executed by solicitors. Per-
jured evidence for use in divorce suits, etc.,
Sith IS the fr fmnHma O hVr re i tL P r rS< T st ; imped
witn the imprimatur ot the Court. An un-
due proportion of them are detected yearly,
in the act of stealing large sums of money ;
and there, is no doubt that for every one who
oN'u'su if^. iz ssa
man of the world to indicate the higher pro-
tession which contains most rank and dan-
SHne’wSf meXISWtP&JZ
THE WOMAN SCORES.
H E: “I don’t like the way you fake your hair.
Why don’t you wear it like you used to?”
SHE: “I don’t know. Why don’t you?”
Two letters were nearly the death of a
Christchurch (M.L.) parson the other day. He
had talked pretty at a parsonical pow-wow
about brotherly conviviality, and church-
men making friends over a pipe. Reporter—
or, mayhap, it was printer —converted the
pacific “pipe” into the persuasive “pint.”
And it was thus the par. started on the
rounds. Luckily the parson saw it early.
“Sorry to spoil such a charming vision of
amity,” he wrote in hurried defence to the
local paper, “but the fear of the prohibition-
ists is upon me. What I said was, not ‘over
a pint,’ but ‘over a pipe.’ ”
“Crimper”; Sailors are as scarce in New-
castle (Australia) as joyous greetings to the
forthcoming Referenda from combines and
other swindles. The first thing a British or
foreign sailor does when his windjammer ties
up at Coalopolis is to enthusiastically
desert, and, as the Australian seaman will not
look at the dizzy wage of £4 a month offered
by the foreign shipowner, the only source of
supply is incoming ships. Newcastle is con-
stantly over-run with blaspheming skip-
pers searching for a crew, what time
colliery owners, railway officials, harbor
authorities, etc., dog their footsteps and im-
plore them to heave-ho and get. Also, each
mail brings urgent letters asking when in
Ilades they propose to sail, and, in between
times, cablegrams rage for them to “do a
bunk,” or all contracts will be cancelled.
In desperation, the rate of pay has been
raised to £5 10s. a month, a degree of affluence
unknown in the British merchant service. Any
person producing a drunken, cursing, dirty
seaman and getting him signed on in official
form can collect a fee of £2. Then when the
news reaches the tars who are being paid
merely £3 10s. or £4 they hurriedly depart
in search of the increased rate of pay. Jn a
properly regulated port it is, or should be,
practically impossible for a deserter from
one ship to join another ship; but things
have got to the stage at Newcastle where
no questions are asked, .and the only risk
a deserting seaman runs is of being torn to
pieces by competing master mariners. And
if the seaman happened to be killed in the
scramble, the coroner would probably be
trampled to death in the struggle for the
tmuy. No sailor man is dead at Newcastle
till he proves it.
“0.K.” : The purely Australian custom of
giving a round of applause to the Governor
—any governor, local or G.-G. —when he en-
ters a theatre is shock-
ing to one’s democratic
feelings. The playing
of the anthem by an
unwilling orchestra,
and the general upris-
ing of the audience, is
an absurdity, seeing
that a well-behaved
king ordinarily wants
to pass into a theatre
without attracting at-
tention. But the hand-
clapping is an out-
rageous development
of modern Australian
civilisation. One would
note it with silent con-
tempt if the vice-regal
person were content
to ignore it, but to
see him strike an atti-
tude in the front of
the box, and absorb
the adulation with
sponge-like gravity, is
maddening. Melba, or
any other very popular
performer off duty,
would smile and nod
and shrug shoulders un-
der similar circum-
stances ; but “the re-
presentative of the
Crown” stands and
waits till the applause
has petered out, like a
circus star who has
been vociferously an-
nounced bv the’ ring-
master. The one' thing
wanting to complete
this deplorable mum-
mery is a managerial
announcer. “Ladies
and gentlemen, his Ex-
cellency the Governor
will now appear in his
great vice-regal act!”
“Jungle” : The hardest thing I have heard
about Jack Johnson, since Chicago chased
him into his cafe, was said by a woman who
knows nothing about the once splendid pusson
except that his social record appears to be a
good match for his complexion. After read-
ing the latest cables about his goings-on, she
laid down the paper and inquired indig-
nantly, “Why don’t they send him back to
his tribe?” It shows the limited range of
even the most vigorous advertising. To be
offhandedly dismissed as a raw, unworthy
savage, after all his extravagance and splen-
dor, is indeed a bitter uppercut for the
world’s vainest nigger.
From an Ulawarra (N.S.W.) correspond-
en t •
Last week, a strapping fellow, with the horrors
about him, was sent into a N.S.W.'hospital, a mile
out of town. The first night he was there he de-
manded drink, and when the matron refused to let
hiin have it he threatened to- incinerate the
other patients and strangle all the nurses on the
premises; also the cook and laundress and the cat.
The wardsman—a feeble fellow aged over 60—came
to the rescue, and was promptly spread-eagled and
sat upon by the soaked. object that shouldn’t have
been there. Then the matron, in sheer desperation,
A CASE FOR THE MILLION CLUE.
Mrs. WOOLLYBUTT (temporarily residing in a
city suburb): “Now, if you're a good boy,
Jimmy, I’ll lake you, into the township.”
poured brandy and other fluids into the ruffian, and
he slept until a strong man happened along. And
the reason the beer-brute was admitted to the in-
stitution at all was that he told one of • the fool
doctors, who believed the yarn, that he was a second
cousin of the Minister for Agriculture at Timbuctoo
or somewhere. The nurses complained to' the com-
mittee, and the doc. got out of the difficulty by ex-
plaining that he understood, upon examination, that
the patient had a growth somewhere about his per-
son where nobody could either see or feel it. Up
to date the growth hasn’t been troubling the in-
ebriate, who is out of hosp. at present, and spending
his time between pubs. Writer thinks that women
shouldn’t be called upon to fight, drunks o’ nights
at lonely hospitals, but he has known a few cases of
it recently.
DECEITFUL APPEARANCES.
IT: “And how did the burglars get in?”
SHE: “Oh, they told the servant they were gas
men, and they looked so villainous she be-
lieved them and let them in.”
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Apropos St. James’s ex-Cathedral, Melbourne (B.
24/10/’l2). The original plan of Melbourne shows
24 acres set aside “for a church.” It had a frontage
to Bourke-street, William-street and Little John-
street. Another 24 acres, with frontages to Collins-
street. William-street and Little Collins-street, is
marked “Reserve.” The allotments west of these two
blocks, fronting King-street, were not sold at the
first land sale, June 1, 1837. There was a sheep-pen
on the first-named 24 acres, belonging to John Bat-
man. The sheep-pen gave way 'to a weatherboard
building, which ac-
commodated several
branches of religion—-
the R.C.’s remaining
apart. On November
9, 1839, the founda-
tion-stone of St.
James's was laid on
the block marked “Re-
serve,” which is separ-
ated by Little Collins-
street from the block
marked “Church.” Was
this jumped ? The ar-
chitect was Robert
Russell, who assisted
Hoddle in laying out
the streets. Alexander
Sim was the contrac-
tor. The church ap-
pears to have “snav-
elled” five acres, now
one of the most valu-
able sites in West Mel-
bourne. Palaces dedi-
cated to commerce sur-
round the old fane,
and some of these fine
days the church will
be demolished—-“senti-
ment be damned”—
and the ground leased
for more church re-
venue. The western
allotments, form ing
one-half the entire
block, were sold i n
Sydney on" September
13, 1838, the. upset
price being fixed at
£75 per half-acre lot.
Three of the lots were
bought by Melbourne
men. the other seven
by Sydney men, A. B.
Sparke, Thomas Wal-
ker, Charles Nicholson,
Bells, Panton and Co.,
A. Fotheringham (two
lots) and P. W. Flow-
er. A. Orr bought the
corner on which James
McCulloch (McCulloch,
Sellar arid Co.) had
his stores. Lot 4 was
bought by A. B.
Sparke, Sydney mer-
chant. This was the
lot on which McCracken’s brewery was built bang
up agin the church. Somehow beer has alwavs been
fairly close to the church.
Wilds Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
clje proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
LOVE AND KISSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A large percentage of wireless business between
the Isle of Man and Heysham Harbor was known as
“love and kisses,” and accounted for receipts up to
£2400 a year.
If the wireless traffic being done in Melbourne
were dissected, it would doubtless be found that 75
per cent, was “love and kisses.”— J. G. Balsillie.
Federal Government wireless expert.
Above the sea, across the sky,
The messages forever fly;
It’s “Love and kisses”
All day long;
Wives and misses
Say “What’s wrong?”
When no wireless brightly hisses
Through the darkness, “Love and kisses.”
(“Love and kisses—
Dick” or “Bert”)
Sister, wife or sweetheart misses
That brief message. Men feel hurt;
Wonder who has caught her fancy.
Helen, Dorothy or Nancy,
You are taking desp’rate chances
With your little shore romances,
If you do not use the key
On a message from the sea:—
“On board T.S.S. Ulysses—
Weather splendid, love and kisses.”
Above the sea, across the sky,
The dividends on ether fly ;
As “Love and kisses,”
Cash is spent
On maid and missus.
Evident
The best of wireless trading this is ;
Therefore, long . live “Love and kisses" !
“Love and kisses,
Gert” or “Lil”
Straight across the sea’s abysses
Help to fill the wireless till.
Cupid all his gold is flinging
At the white spark, talking, singing;
Ev’ry single coin he squanders
On the flash that never wanders.
Out into the trackless,, dark
Leaps the swift, unerring spark,
And its paying message hisses—-
“Love and kisses! Love and kisses!”
N.S.W.
HORATIO BREATHLESS.


A PENIN CEREMONY.
Here you see Lord Chelmsford’s kid a-goin’ on the land.— -No. 1. That’s him milkin’ a cow. He is
assisted by the Minister for Agriculture, who holds the animal steddy. 2. This is Lord Chelmsford a-lookin’
on with a incouragin’ smile, and some Capital in his pockit. 3. The Governor-General is here seen openin’
the dairy, amid loud applaws and a brass band. 4. The Court fotographer. 5. Some spectators. 6. Special
train bringin’ excursionists at redooced rates to see the ceremony. 7. Some vice-regal gests. 8. The
homested. 9. Temprary Is of the Governor-General.
CHELMSFORD’S DEPARTURE-A SUGGESTION.
Lord Chelmsford recently said that he was leaving entirely and purely for family reasons. He had had a boy for the past five years in England. He was 16 now.
and in another two years he would have to take up a profession. Anybody here who had boys of his own would know that from 10 to 18 years was the most critical
period in a boy’s life.
In his speeches Lord Chelmsford has repeatedly urged people to put their sons “on the land.” Why not put his son on the land, and thus keep the money,
the Governor and the kid in the country he loves so well?


Household Disinfectant-
Carbolacene
Cleanses and disinfects
in one act.
For Washing Dogs and all Animals.
Destroys Vermin.
A wonderful healer of euts and
sores and skin eruptions.
In the siek room. Instantly des-
troys all germs.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging carpets, ete. Removes
dirt, prevents disease.
In the bath and for washing the
hair.
USED BY ALL HOSPITALS
dhfd
If not obtainable at your Chemist op Storekeeper, send for trial
pint bottle—l/3 Post Free to any address.
Arthur Muston & Sons. Moylan & S Chancellor. Mitchell & bellair
DIAMONDS REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
Over a year ago we took on a Sole Agency
calling for an enormous output of Diamonds,
and so we offered diamonds at merely a
broker’s commission above landed cost.
Special Diamonds, 2 Whole Pearls, £lO/10/=
o 0« Managing Director has just returned from Antwerp, where he renewed and perfected
■ T arran> ? ernents tor Diamonds, and this enables us to still offer Diamonds at prices lower than
in any other part of the world.
tuc,,-n^coi c ? rry ,, ol i e the largest, if not the largest, Stock of Diamonds in Australia, and offer
them set m all forms of jewellery at merely a commission above landed cost.
pAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES-CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
NABOB BOOT PASTE-.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
LEWIS
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
i WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“G. Gee” : Re the bright, brainy immi-
grant that Old England is exporting to these shores.
One of them up this (Parkes) way recently proposed
to a local milkeress by letter. The impassioned mis-
sive wound up this way: “I trust you will give the
matter every. consideration, but whether you accept
me or not will be equally satisfactory to me • No
subtle courtier, I grant you ; not the type of adroit
flatterer who, by his wiles, lures the rural heiress
from the bails to the registry office in record time,
but a philosopher and a sportsman to ,the back teeth!
Long may the Cold Land continue to unload such
splendid characters upon us!
AN EXPERT DECISION.
OLD WAYBACK : "Yer may depend the bloke
wot carved that there kangaroo never see
one in ’is blamed life!”
“E.S.S.”: Am amazed (mind, I don’t say
incredulous) at “F.A.T.’s” statement (B. 3/10/T2)
that he got a mallee hen on the bank of Lake Chap-
paginia, about 15 miles from Cape York. The
Lowan, or mallee hen, has a wide range over the
southern half of Australia, mostly in the dry, sandy
country, but it has not been heard of before from the
northern regions. I don’t think one has ever been
seen in any part of Queensland, unless about the
border of Central Australia. Perhaps the poultry
“F.A.T.” secured was the koogerri, or jungle fowl.
“Yarrum”: “Reka’s” reference to the
more or less pet shark known as “New Zealand
Billy” (B. 3/10/’l2), reminds me that Iviama
(N.S.W.) had its own pet brute some 10 years ago.
“Big Ben” could always be seen in the vicinity of
the Blowhole, where he feasted lazily on defunct
horses, cattle, discarded dogs, poultry and other rub-
bish tossed over the cliffs by admirers of his appe-
tite. Occasionally a suicide dived down to him.
Ben waxed fat on his varied diet, and wore a con-
tented look and a multitude of honorable barnacles.
Then a local medico who wanted the old brute’s
jaws, pulled round from the basin in a boat, and
slew Benjamin with many broadsides. The locals
were so infuriated with what they termed “a low-
down, dirty action ” that they shunned him and his
brass plate until he got disgusted or something, and
moved to another town. He could hardly have
been treated more severely if he had kicked the most
eminent cow in the district.
* * * *
“D.R.M.” : I have never noticed the foot-
print of the curlew upon the much-trodden surface
of the “Aboriginalities,” yet he deserves some lime-
light, as a unique and interesting individual. I
have questioned several, but I have found only one
bushman yet who could say that he had seen a
young curlew. Immediately the remote grandson of
Adam protrudes the top of his cranium above the
horizon, out shoots curlew flat on his stomach, re-
maining as still as a brick in a wall. This artifice
is so successful that even on the barest patch of
ground one needs a five horse-power telescope to dis-
tinguish him from a piece of dry timber. Such faith
has the young fledgling in this method of escape that
he will suffer himself to be picked up and examined,
confident even then that his identity is unknown, and
that he is palming himself off as a defunct water rat
or something. When put down again he immedia-
tely casts himself upon the bosom of the plain as be-
fore. The curlew is the only creature—excepting
humans—that I have ever seen attempting to combat
fire. Riding along the face of a bush-fire one day, I
was astonished to see two curlews beating the flames
with their wings. The grass was fairly short, but
the heat and smoke told heavily on the feathered
firemen. One had to retire temporarily from action,
to clear the charcoal out of his throat and blow his
nose, but soon returned with renewed vigor. After
a heated and smoky conflict they actually preserved
a small area about syds. in diameter. With open
bills and drooping wings they stood upon the rescued
spot and wiped the perspiration from their brows.
Closer investigation revealed the presence Of the
nest —or rather, the eggs—for Madam Curlew lays her
eggs upon the unadorned surface of the earth.
* * * *
“McNorth” : A large-sized wail of protest
is being uttered by the Bingliis of Torres Strait
against the action of the powers that be in decree-
ing that their (the Binghis’) wages shall only be
spent under the watchful eye of some person ap-
pointed by the Protector. The
method at present in force to
ensure that the blackfellow
does not spend his bloated
capital foolishly, and is not
imposed upon by unscrupu-
lous Chinese and other store-
keepers, is to send a Euro-
pean, employed for the pur-
pose, with Binghi to make
the purchases. That may an-
swer the purpose with a real
Myall, who would cheerfully
give £1 for a blanket worth
45., but the present-day no-
mads of Torres Strait have
more “savee” than many
whites, and can distinguish
between a florin and a half-
crown in the dark with their
eyes shut. The Binghis re-
sponsible for the outcry argue
with more or less reason
that: (1) having earned the
money they have a right to
spend it themselves; (2)
there is no danger of them
giving 10s. for a pound of
tobacco, as they know prices
well; (3) the professional
spender may be in league
with the storekeeper. Also, if
there is not a change, Binghi
reckons to tell his would-be
employer to search elsewhere
for labor, and incidentally
to boil his head. Our be-
nighted black brothers and
half-brothers are improving
when they can put forth ar-
guments like the above. And
as the industry of hunting the
silent and murky beche-de-
mer in its native mansion is
dependent on the efforts of
the Binghis as boats’ crews, there seems some likeli-
hood of Ah Soon having to do with less of his fav-
orite slug-of-the-sea soup.
* * * *
“Orara”: The Black Diver lives up to its
name in rare fashion, inasmuch as it is both black
and dives. (How many so-called Good Lawyers are
neither good nor lawyers!) To revert to the 8.D.,
was cod-fishing on the Upper Clarence in a 50ft!
hole, the other day, with a set line. Suddenly I
heard a splash, and observed that my bait had been
adopted, seemingly, by a 100-ton cod. A second
passed, and then the entire apparatus—hook, sinker,
bait, line, mooring-stick and all—disappeared into the
unknown void, in company with one of the most
astounded divers it has been my lot to see. The
sable bird must have plunged a solid 30ft. to con-
nect with its uncomfortable and agitating meal.
AN ALTERNATIVE.
INEBRIATED LADY (anxiously, to policeman who is taking her name and aaaress in a
notebook): "What’s up—are you go in' ter summons me?”
POLICEMAN (casually): “ Oh , no!”
INEBRIATED LADY : “Well, have yer got a cigarette?"
“Skickpicker”: “Vagabond” (B. 26/9/’l2)
wants a recipe for turtle. soup. Here it is. Let
him first catch his turtle, then soak it in a solution
of warm water, salt and a little washing soda. The
soaking will take away the aroma which “Vaga-
bond” objects to. Clean and slice' the reptile and
place in a kerosene tin three parts full of water.
Add the usual accompaniments to a “’Bidgee
whaler’s” soup, and, if obtainable, a little garlic.
Simmer Slowly for four hours, and the result will
be a dish fit for George Reid himself.
“Bill Adams”: As “Pete” is curious to
know the date of the last cannibal feast of the
Maoris, I don’t mind giving an account of it. It
was at the time of the savage wars between the
Ruruku and the Tamumumu tribes. I was paying
a friendly visit to my pals, the Rurukus, shortly
after a battle in which their forces had been reduced
to three men and a hound. I offered to lead them
in an attack on the Tamumumus. My offer was
gladly accepted, and the chief immediately prepared
the despatches, announcing a victory ready to forward
to the newspapers. There were about 1000 Tams
strongly entrenched, and as we could not afford to
sacrifice any of our forces I decided on strategy. The
chief made a feint at the front entrance of the fort, and
while he was being revived by burnt feathers and the
First Aid ambulance, I led the main force round to
the back. I had a bunch of skeleton keys, and
when we reached the tradesmen’s entrance I turned
the key to the position and stormed the pah and
mah. Shouting our war-cry of “Taihoa,” we
rushed to the attack. My party killed two warriors
each. Modesty forbids my telling the number of
hundreds I accounted for. But to come to the can-
nibalism. In the heat of the fray (110° in the shade)
one of my warriors seized a young and beautiful
maid, and was about to club her. Now, Bill Adams
makes no war on woman, so, seizing the warrior’s
arm, I shouted in Maori (I speak the language
fluently, of course), “Wacht ein bitje' (wait a bit)
you kauri (cur). I claim the maiden. She is mine.”
The maiden threw a grateful glance and a cooking-
pot at me, and I thought no more of the matter, as
it was my busy day and there were Several more
hundreds to be killed. When my arm was weary of
whirling my wahine (war-club), I blew the whistle
for half-time, and I told my tired warriors we would
have an interval for refreshment. “Ratio you aroa
(right you are), Bill Adams,” said the chief, and
when the enemy heard that dread name they threw
in the towel. I lay down for 40 winks, being tired,
and I was awakened by the sound of the dinner-bell.
Sitting up, I found dinner just being served, and sud-
denly remembering my beautiful captive maiden, I
asked the chief where she was, and would he bring
her to me. They brought her, roasted to a turn,
and the chief was quite surprised when I was an-
noyed about it. To prevent any similar mistakes I
gave immediate orders that Bill Adams forbade any
cannibalism from then on. Of course that finished it.
Dear Bulletin, — I notice various writers
have recently been slinging mud, contempt and
various rudeness at the immigrant. Now, most of
the bloomers which are related by these teat-cud-
dling milk-extractors, peerless bushmen, common
cockies, etc., are quite what would be expected, and
the rest can be swallowed with about 3cwt. of salt.
What can these lads of London and other English
cities know of ringbarking, bailing up heifers, set-
ting hens or harnessing ? They are probably no
denser than any of the above mob would be if
planted in a big city. Put any of the said mob in
Piccadilly Circus, London, or by the Bank, and I’ll
lay 15 to eight he’d go about with his mouth open
for a week gasping, and kind-hearted people would
gratuitously direct nim to the nearest chemist, where
he could get something for it. Give the immigrant
a show, and most of him will make good, and re-
member that every additional one of him helps to
form the rampart to keep off the yellow atrocity
which will one day creep in at the North. And if
the immigrant doesn’t make good his Australian-
born sons will, just as did the Australian-born sons
of the mostly-Cockney convicts who came out with
the First Fleet. What makes me mad is that the
blessed backbone of this country seems to think that,
just because he can milk a wretched old dog of a
cow, he is the Holy Trinity.—Yours, amid a cloud
of curses, Speargrass.
An “enormous creature,” resembling a man, that
leaves footprints 20in. long, is causing excitement in
the Bombala district.
Constable O’Callaghan (who has been sent
to investigate) : “Merciful Hivins! If this
ain't me virry own bloomin’ thr-r-racks Oi
made yistiddy mor-r-r-rnin’!!”
A RETURN TO THE PRIMITIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I lay within the gumtree’s shade,
The summer bees hummed here and there.
The earth, with golden petals sprayed,
Gave up an echo to the air,
And all beside was sweet and still,
From drowsing creek to sleeping hill.
“In such a place,” I thought, “some swain,
Pitch black, by tender longing swayed,
In scented ambush might have lain
To ‘knock’ an all unconscious maid,
As was the black man’s custom rash,
When he was moved to do a “mash.”
Then saw I in the purpled dusk,
By great rocks thrown a woman’s shape,
Half hid in clumps of silver musk,
About her eyes a mask of erfipe,
And firmly in her strong white hand
She held a heavy, red-gum brand.
Soon came a white man singing down
A track that led the boulders by,
A tall, square youth, so big and brown,
With freedom shining in his eye.
I tried my palsied arm to stretch,
I strove to cry to warn the wretch.
Too late. He paused. Down came the stick.
He fell, and on the grasses lay.
She took him by the neck, and quick
She dragged the stricken man away.
I saw then on her good club butt
“The Tax on Bachelors” was cut.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


“Mr. J. Page (Q.) urged the Postmaster-General
to ask his officers ‘to rack their mechanical brains’
to invent something to prevent letters being stolen
from pillars. If they were not equal to that, would
he adopt the practice used in England thirty years
ago? (Laughter.)” The above words are from the
Melbourne Herald of the 11/10/T2, and show that
the abstraction of letters is growing and needs at-
tention. Phillips Ormonde & Co., patent agents, 266
Flinders St., Mel.*
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
IT DAZZLES THE WORLD.
No discovery in medicine has ever created one
quarter of the interest that has been caused by Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It
has brought relief in the most hopeless cases, when
all else has failed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town..
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Is your step elastic? No reason why it should not
be. Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract gives you
energy—lends a spirit and dash to your walk and
actions.*
i Hunyadt
1 Janos 1
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler
on arising, before oreakfaju, for j
CONSTIPATION
HONESTLY RECOMMENDED.
“To anyone suffering from diarrhea I can honestly
recommend Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhea
Remedy as being the most satisfactory medicine on
the market,” writes Mr. C. C. Hooper, Wakefield
(N.Z.). “I have tried all sorts of so-called ‘cures,’
but have found nothing equal to Chamberlain’s Colic
and Diarrhea Remedy.”*
FOGGITT, JONES 7
pork brawn; :
If you have not tasted Foggitt, Jones’
Pork Brawn, you haven’t tasted, One.
of the finest delicacies made in their/
factories. Might it be suggested thatl
you buy a tin or two and see how
nice it is for luncheon, tea or picnic/
Vour grocer sells i.' at. a reasonffbv^
price
a
/ m.
~~V3j
“Gouger”: Was fossicking recently down
an old shaft at Ilerberton (N.Q.). In the dim light
of the candle I carried it was about as cheerless a
place as any outside the back country of Shcol. One
of the drives had broken into an old tunnel, and
tons of drift had fallen clean from the basalt, while
in a dozen places huge fissures in the roof and walls
told of enormous masses of rock which might yet
fall. As I held the candle up to get a good view of
things I heard an ominous creak. I was a long way
from the shaft, and with a particularly empty feel-
ing in my abdominal regions, I looked round for a
convenient cranny in which to take shelter from the
expected avalanche of stone. Then I saw the only
piece of timber in the place—a stout prop about
two feet, in thickness, which appeared to be holding
up about half the world. It was from the prop that
the creaking was coming, and with a quick sus-
picion I crossed over to the wooden arrangement.
Yes, there it was, a' steady and unceasing sound
like the purr of a crosscut saw. Cursing the cause
of my late fright, I jammed the “spider” into the
sturdy-looking prop. It went to a depth of eight
inches —its full length. I tried again and again,
and the rotten wood yielded like a Dutch cheese
attacked by the bayonet. The prop was teeming
with white ants 1 The Devil and other persons in
his special confidence must be left to explain how
they got there, for the tunnel had fallen many years
ago, and it was a long way round to the shaft by
which I had come. Anyhow, those small white
Samsons might bring down that solitary pillar any
hour or minute, and this Philistine wasn’t waiting
to see the final smash. He conceived a sudden vast
regard for the bright, clear sunshine.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Coincidences are bad art, but
in hard fact they are often of exceeding interest. Take
the case of Mr. and Mrs. Grassland, of Thule. The
home of the Grasslands was partly farm house, partly a
convalescents’ resort. While Willie tickled the land
with a hoe in the hope that it would laugh with a
harvest of onions, Mrs. Willie afforded protection and
shelter to pale strangers from the distant city, suffer-
ing recoveries. But the onion crops were very dis-
appointing at Thule, and it happened that con-
valescents often died on Mrs. Grassland’s hands, and
went into the next world with a burden of debt upon
their souls. Grassland grew very weary of his
little lot in life, not barring Mrs. G., and one night
he left a note on the kitchen table, got out warily,
and joining the domestic servant Hannah on the road,
took foot to the nearest station, and the pair faded
from the ken of the curious inhabitants of Thule.
After that there was a strange stillness in the house
of Grasslands for three days and three nights, broken
only by the prolonged bewailing of the Grassland
dog, and the melancholy mooing of the Grassland
cow, which had put its head in at the kitchen win-
dow to investigate the great silence. At this stage
Walker, from round the bend, considered himself
justified in intervening. He found Grassland’s note
on the kitchen table. It stated in simple language,
like that used by Truthful James re the trouble on
the Stanislow, that the undersigned William Grass-
land had gone for good, and taken the excellent
domestic Hannah with him, with her free will and
consent. The writer expressed a hope that Mrs. G.
would bear up. On the parlor table was another
note of the same data. It was couched in somewhat
similar terms, but was addressed to William, and
signed “Sarah.” It intimated that the writer, being
weary of the heat and burden of domestic monotony
at Thule, had gone off for better or worse with the
latest convalescent. Sarah hoped that Willie would
not take it too much to heart.
MOVIN
“ Inmme! Now we’ve brought the furniture
muvver ain't 'ere with the key.”
“McNbrth”: The national petition to the
late Mikado’s physician to commit suicide for fail-
ing to cure his patient reminds me of the hide-
ously low value the Jap sets Oil human life. We
had an instance of it up here (N.Q.) a few months
ago. Around Darnley Island, Torres Strait, there is
an abundance of pearl shell with 40 fathoms of
water over it. The sons of Nippon have worked
these deposits fop some time, chancing the 40 fathoms
and losing divers at the rate of one a week from
over-pressure and paralysis. But this fearfully high
death-rate 1 does not deter them in the least. Here
is an instance of their persistency. A Jap l diving in
42 fathoms was hauled up dead. One of his com-
patriots donned the dead man’s dress and went
below to try and discover the reason of the first
man’s passing out. He also was hoisted to the sur-
face dead. A third diver went down, with the same
result. The only thing that prevented the fourth
demon in the boat from going down was that there
was no one left to act as tender. If the brown
man is so indifferent where his own life is at stake,
what sort of regard must he have for the lives of
others, especially if the others are foreigners, and
possess a country that he wants badly?
WILLING TO OBLIGE
NEWLY-IMPORTED PARSON: “You look harassed , Mr. Grabber.
GRABBER: “Well, Pm a bit put out. My reaper and binder won't work."
N.I.P.: “ P'raps a — ah—a severe lecture from me would — ah—mend matters."
“S. S. Severn” : “Lakekamu” (8.29/8/T2)
says he never saw the Kuku-Kuku, and that their
arrows are not ornate. Probably the reason he did
not see them was because he kept to the beaten
track where the armed constabulary were handy.
The Kuku-Kuku arrows are ornate. I have three in
my possession that were fired into the Pryke Bro-
thers’ camp. It was some time after I wrote what
was known of the Kuku-Kuku that this prospecting
party were attacked by what may or may not have
been the mysterious peoples. What Lakekamu
doesn’t know writes him down a by-word and a
burnt offering.
“S.”: In an Abo. par (B. 19/9/T2) in
reply to mine (B. 22/8/’l2) on the subject of brand-
ing cattle it is stated that an owner would not get
more than 2d. more for
a decently-branded beast
than he does for the other
sort. Well, here’s an ex-
tract from a letter , for-
warded by Vic. A.-G. Tav-
erner to the Department
of Agriculture of his own
State on the subject:
“Looking at it from the
raw-hide standpoint, Aus-
tralian hides are • to-day
fetching 6d. per lb.
branded. If these hides
were not branded they
would fetch a penny per
lb. more, and as these
hides weigh from 60lb. to
801 b., I leave you to cal-
culate the damage.” I
hold that a man who
. would needlessly destroy
another man’s raw ma-.
terial to that extent is a
hog, and deserves to be
legislated against as N.S.W. Agricultural Minister
Trefle proposes to do.
* * * *
Corio is both an Italian and an Australian
aboriginal word. A famous Italian family bears
that name, and a member of it, Silvio Cbrio, has
written to London Notes and Queries to ask how
“a town near Geelong, Australia, came to be called
Corio.” J. F. Hogan, as an old Geelong boy of
credit and renown, replied that Corio was the ori-
ginal name of the northern part of the present city
of Geelong. The pioneer settlers learned it from the
local tribe of blacks. Geelong is also an aboriginal
word. About 76 years ago, when the place was
first occupied, two settlements were formed, one on
the bay (Corio) and the other on the River Bar won
(Geelong). The whole place gradually came to be
known as Geelong, but the name of Corio still sur-
vives in the bay, the oldest street and a neighbor-
ing shire. Daniel Bruce, who was out exploring
with Ludwig Leichhardt, was the first curator of
the Geelong botanical gardens. He published a
vocabulary of the language spoken by the blacks
round Geelong. In a prefatory note he says that
the readers of his little book who speak the words
with a “soft Italian accent” can make themselves
understood by the natives without difficulty. There
is nothing soft or Italian about the language of the
average King Billy of our acquaintance.
“Hecagas” : Will push the pen to the last
drop of ink in supporting “Machete’s” contention
(B. 3/10/’l2) that the bike is useless as a means of
locomotion in war time. Have seen both horse and
bike tried during the S’African scuffle, and know
which is the safer and best. Have known a corps
of 50 cyclists start on trek, and in three weeks’
time a sorry trio, pushing the curse, were all that
was left of the squad. The bicycle was forthwith
stabled as a white elephant. In a town (garrisoned)
with good roads, the machines were invaluable, but
on the veldt —well, give me a horse every time, be
it only a draught.
“T. Tufthunter”: I have discovered that
Noah is the patron saint of the Farmers and Settlers,
He is the first person we have any record of who
sweated his own family, 2349 b.c. Observe, there
were only eight of them to do all the work in the
ark, and, as Noah was 600 years old at the time, he
probably didn’t do much. Same applies to Mrs.
Noah. This leaves the boys, Shem, Ham and
Japheth, and their wives, all probably on their honey-
moon trip, to work the cold storage necessary to
keep the flesh food for the carnivorous animals for
150 days, and for long afterwards, until animals
increased for them to prey upon. Also, they had to
work the chaffcutters to feed the ruminants. There
were also the birds to be fed, and the aquarium to
be attended to, the reptile house to be kept supplied
with live food, and the whole caboodle to be cleaned
up,'as'it would not do to have the menagerie as-
phyxiated. This was a tough job, as, there was only
one door and ; one window. Consider the work of
keeping the three decks clean. It is said the ark
was about. the same dimensions as the Great Eastern.
The three; boys could only have been, at the outside,
100 years old, as the good book says, “Noah was
500 years pld.when he begat Shem, Ham and Japheth,”
and 600 when they - started for Ararat. You will
also see they had no encumbrances. I hold that
Noah should have shipped plenty of help, there being
no Rural Workers’ Union, or Labor Government, to
interfere with. Private Enterprise, or raise wages; and
no doubt there would be plenty of hands offering,
if for no other reason than to get in Out of the wet.
In fact, I doubt not they would gladly have shipped
for the usual Is. per month, and taken the Is. out
in tobacco. As everyone else would have* been
drowned, ’there would be no, one to collect bills, so
I consider the whole thing was all right for Noah,
but all wrong' for the others. As Methuselah, who
only lived 969 years, died in the year of the flood,
the 1656th year of the earth, and as the flood started
on the 17th day of the second month, there is a
probability that this spring chicken may have been
drowned unless he looked slippery. It is also
thought by some commentators that probably it was
his cats Noah took into the ark. If so, it ought to
make us more reverent in our feelings towards those *
interesting and beautiful creatures. That is probably
why the Egyptians worshipped them, and not, as
some people think, because of their beautiful vocal
efforts at night. Be that as it may, I take the
credit of the discovery, and present it to the Farmers
and Settlers’ Ass. I take no notice of the Bishop
of Lincoln’s theory that “probably the reason of the
coarseness of passages in the Old Testament was that
it was written for people largely engaged in cattle-
breeding.”
“Bilgewater” : Pine Creek, in the N. Ter-
ritory, boasts a church built with Chinese labor.
The first marriage celebrated in the Chow and holy
edifice was that of a white man and an aboriginal
lady. According to custom, the dusky mother-that-
was-to-be in Israel, was presented with a Bible,
which she afterwards used to prop open the door of
the humpy. He was wood and water Gibeonite on
a farm and she was a goat shepherdess. A lady had
presented the church with a cushion for brides and
bridegrooms to kneel upon, but some enraged person
burned it on hearing of the use to which it had been
put. After that there was a great silence, broken
only by the noise of a crocodile slamming in the
distance.
“Die Mihi” sends along a wail: This
country is comatose under the dead hand of
old age. It suffers because there are too
many old people on top —old and fat and
effete. In politics especially there are too
many old men holding responsible positions;
too many senile decadents who block pro-
gress and oppose reform by wearily sitting
still. Think of them: old Mr. Deakin, old
Jokook, old Senator Fraser, old Jack
Murray, old Jas. McGowen. There are
only two men under 60 in the Vic-
torian State Cabinet, Willie Watt and
Peter Mcßride. Accordingly, Victoria has
no proper seaport, its railway and tram-
way traffic is disorganised, its capital city
lacks cheap light and cheap power; there is
still a zone of sheep stations for 50 miles
round Melbourne, and the brown coal de-
posits are still unworked. These are a few
trifling results of allowing elderly men to
manage a young virile country which ought
to be (and is not) progressing, hustling and
expanding. Look at Melbourne City Coun-
cil, tottering, palsied and bald, fighting
feebly against the Greater Melbourne Coun-
cil, and using its old-time spears and shields
in defence of the aged Gas Co. and the
rapacious Tram Co. There are few young
men in the City Council, and there are 12
aldermen whose united ages were 876 at the
last census. In one recent week 62 dod-
derers left the Government service amidst
the groans and tears of the community, all
with fat, plethoric pensions because they
were over 65 years of age. One old chappie
had carried despatches around the depart-
ments for 52 years, and was in quite good
enough repair to keep on carrying them for
another 52 years, yet he had to go, God
bless him! The two Liberal Leagues and
the Women’s League are managed by old
women of both sexes, and a fine hash they
are making of things in their old familiar
way. One doesn’t like to advocate the
chopping-block and the tumbril, as they
give rise to unpleasant recollections. Nor
is Dr. Osier’s dictum that all old people
should be gently knocked on the head on
DRINKING HIS FOOTING.
ZII3: “You're drunk!”
NEW ARRIVAL : “Shawl right , constable. I'm
only an hemmigrant gettin me land legs
(hie)!”
their 60th birthday quite pleasing to us whose
mother has just reached that milestone.
No, one rather favors a policy of push.
Just gently 'take all these old bank mana-
gers, elderly mining directors, aged insur-
ance agents, out-of-date civil servants,
senile politicians and octogenarian capital-
ists and push them over the precipice of ob-
livion. If they won’t resign, let us propel
them into obscurity out of harm’s way and
progress’s path by voting against them
every time. A foreign invasion would
quicken this policy of push. In time of war
the old men would stop at home and mind
the food, and the women and the young men
would come into their own.


The Senate having failed to fulfil the
hopes of the Constitution-builders as the
guardian of the States, the duty of
guarding the Constitution has devolved
upon the State Parliaments and Minis-
v«„eS ‘ <li<l the <lut V valiantly last
•'® . r ’ “ nd the -V have only to maintain
their fight this year to secure an even
more pronounced victory. “Argus.”
hfd
The ladies stated that they had ample
proofs that attempts had been made to
corrupt female emigrants on ship-board.
They were also frequently tempted at
wayside ports, and on arrival in Aus-
tralia, to abandon domestic service, for
which they were engaged.—Evidence
before Empire Trade Commission.
Mr Justice Murray, of South Aus-
tralia, has been so deeply impressed
by the part he has observed drunkenness
to play in causing crime, that he is ad-
vocating a new system of education in
the State schools. He claims that all
children should be taught from infancy
the harm that drink, indulged in to ex-
cess, will do, both to their bodies and
their brains, l Age,”
down, sure ButVeN liai/c "te Kee|» on rMnniifg^i^.
~~
-
*&S4rs
w//
vy
'f>
T te of
Tbe. ooozer *
Kid in " Arr, Wer«. pom' l”
"tt>C K^C«S, see ?*’
Kid onfbo'l"— " I °r»y go
On (ydiey .
MAINLY ABOUT QUADRUPEDS.


GREATLY BENEFITED.
“1 have been troubled with liver complaint since
I was 10 years of age and under the doctor’s treat-
ment,” says Mrs. F. Donald, Hororata (N.Z.), “but
I found benefit from Chamberlain’s Tablets. On
many occasions when suffering from general debility
I have had reason to be thankful for such a mild and
gentle corrective as Chamberlain’s Tablets.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
00 you ever wake up with one of those throbbing
headaches? Don’t tolerate it. Use Stearns’ Headache
Cure—be ready for the day’s work.*
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUAUTY
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
WHEN
YOU GET
CLEMENTS
TONIC
YOU GET HEALTH TOO.
Nurse Catherine Korting, of
Brunswick, Victoria, writes :
“Fourteen years ago as a nurse
I first used Clements Tonic, and 1
have prescribed it times out of
number. I have seen people bless
tile day they heard of it.”
ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES SELL IT.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
JACK: “ You're a duck.”
SUSAN (looking at his cap): “What do you
think? ”
Parson Ronald, the broken link between
politics and the Presbyterian pulpit, flutters
round the limelight like a moth around a
candle, since he lost his seat in the House of
Reps. He sued Robert Harper for damages
for having said something to his disadvan-
tage ; then he sued the man who was said to
have told Harper the something which the
latter repeated; now he is sueing another
man, who is alleged to have told another yarn,
with a Mel ourne pub and an unsober rev.
in it. His claim this time is for £499 dam-
ages, and he is certain to get a lot of further
notoriety anyhow. But the unhappy Ronald
would have been better without further no-
toriety of that sort. He’s a parson once
more, and there don’t seem to be the makings
of a halo in this sordid libel case.
From our tame Court correspondent:—
It is generally agreed, in the circles in which I
move, that Lord Chelmsford will leave Australia
next March a disappointed man. He wanted to be
Governor-General. To that end, during many weary
years, he opened homes for the Destitute, Drunk and
Paralysed with extraordinary vigor and enthusiasm ;
delivered thousands of speeches, each with a cluster
of waggeries and one or two elevating little anecdotes
attached ; spoke civilly to all men ; attended church
regularly, and listened to innumerable awful ser-
mons : and persistently forebore to come home with
the milk or anything of that sort. Also, he went to
London, and showed himself where his presence might
do most good. In vain. For one thing he is a Tory,
and the present British Government is not handing
out any spoils to • its opponents unnecessarily. Fur-
thermore, there is a suspicion abroad that,
howsoever well-meaning, he is a futile sort
of character. His case happil.y exemplifies that a
man may not scale the dizzier heights of officialdom
by strict attention to bun-fights and Mayoral banquets
alone.
SPEAKER
ARMSTRONG ,
Queensland
Assembly.
“Chasuble”: Most of the Salvation Army
officers who have been in supreme command
in Australia have made haste to get out.
All these men went over the continent pro-
claiming in every State that the Army was
the only cure for sin and joy, and the indis-
pensable thing for Sissy and John Smith;
then, when the time was ripe, they fell away
to other jobs. Ballington Booth took com-
mand in 1884. Howard, now chief of Bram-
well Booth’s staff, followed him; then Pol-
lard, and next Coombs from Canada. Others
were Kilbey and Herbert Booth. All these
except Howard have left the Army. Why?
Did the men who could see the organisation
in the truest light find it impossible to stay?
Died lately at Paeroa (M.L. 1, James
Mackay, an unostentatious Scot who did
things. He settled at Nelson in the ’so’s,
and, when the Collingwood gold rush oc-
curred, was appointed goldfields warden—
the first in M.L. As a side-line he saun-
tered, in ’59, from Christchurch to the wild
Wet Coast. The result of the jaunt was
that a deed or treaty was signed by the
coastal chiefs, ceding that portion of the
map which extends from Karamea to Jack-
son’s Bay. When the Maori wars erupted,
Mackay was called upon to keep the Nelson
and Marlborough natives from joining in the
scrap. This was a fairly strenuous job, but
Mackay pulled it through to success, and
was appointed a commissioner to negotiate
for gold-mining rights at Coromandel. On
the strength of this performance he was
despatched to make peace with the people
of Hauraki Peninsula, Tauranga and
Ohinemurb Then Hori Grey noted the toil
of his servant, so Mackay was appointed
resident magistrate for the Hauraki district,
and was permitted to settle down in peace.
Rumored that Duffy, K.C., will get a seat,
on the High Court Bench. He has been at
the Bar since 1874, and is 60 years of age,
being the eldest son of his father’s second
wife —a Miss Hughes, of Newry. A
younger man might fill the horsehair to bet-
ter advantage.
Died last week in Berlin, Zebina Lane,
who made a pot of money out of the Great
Boulder mine at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), and
cut an elegant figure for a
while in the Sandy State’s
House of Landlords. Young
Zebina was the son of old
Zebina, who was the Grand
Panjandrum of mining at St.
Arnaud (Vic.) for a genera-
tion. Young Zeb. got his first
considerable rise as manager of
Broken Hill Block 14, and at
one time was the only non-im-
ported manager on the great
silver lode. Also, by the way,
his was about the only mine
that didn’t cave in more or
less. After his lucky Boulder
stroke he didn’t do as much as
he ought to have done with
either himself or his money, but
he made r plucky struggle to
develop the Westralian(Collie)
coalfields, and he deserves a
kindly remembrance on that account.
To-day, October 31, T. A. Dibbs, who is
still earning a crust, etc., as general manager
of the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
will open his SOth year in this Yale of Boom,
Borrow and Burst. A while ago the lathy
veteran celebrated his 60-odd years’ connec-
tion with the bank by presenting a cheque
for £5OOO as the very solid start of an offi-
cers’ provident fund. It was a very uncom-
mon celebration; but, then, T. A. Dibbs is a
very uncommon man.
Henry Henty, who died a few days ago.
came of the stock of the greater Henty who
settled at Portland. He had at least one
exciting experience. The firm of James
Henty and Co. was carried on about 35
years ago by the brothers Henry and Her-
bert. Henry went on a long trip to Europe,
leaving Herbert in charge. Then Mortimer
Franklyn came along and persuaded Her-
bert to finance the World (evening), the
Federal Australian (weekly), and the
Victorian Review (monthly). It is said
that Herbert had passed along £60,000 when
Henry came back. What he said isn’t on
record, but there was a sudden shut-down, so
the remarks can be pretty well guessed at.
Lawyer Eggleston, just dead, was one of
East Melbourne’s earliest cricketing cracks,
along with lawyer Riggall, Boyle, Horan,
Gaggin and others. The others included the
Rev. G. Tait, the sober-sided clerk of the
Australian Presbyterian Assembly, whom
nobody nowadays would suspect of having
been a dashing bat. Eggleston’s father was
a leading Melbourne Wesleyan, and a goodly
share of the Methody business went the boy’s
way. Eggleston had a pronounced musical
turn, and was just about the best composer
of church anthems that has been developed
by Australia.
Bishop Marsden, formerly of Bathurst,
and, at his death recently, assistant to the
Bishop of Bristol, was son of Thomas Mars-
den, who was a member of the ancient Syd-
ney firm of Flower, Salting and Co. His
mother was a daughter of the Rev. Samuel
Marsden, chaplain of the early days. Plus-
band and wife were cousins. The Bishop’s
mother outlived her husband many years.
She had long occupied a cottage at Bathurst,
opposite the Bishop’s residence. All that is
left of her is in the little cemetery attached
to Holy Trinity at Kelso —the first church
erected beyond the Blue Mountains.
Writes the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Apropos the Howitts (B. 24/10/’l2). The first
of a family of six brothers, sons of Quaker parents,
to strike Australia were Godfrey and Richard, who
arrived in Melbourne in 1840. Godfrey was a
physician, and hung out his shingle in the bush on
the S.E. corner of Collins and Spring streets, where
he subsequently built a fine house and cultivated an
English garden and orchard. Richard was a poet,
and took up bucolic pursuits in the neighborhood of
Heidelberg, just named about that time by Rolf
Boldrewood and some of his friends. In the fore-
part of 1844, the poet returned to the family nest
at Nottingham, England, and wrote a book, “Impres-
sions of Australia” (1845). Godfrey lived and died
in Melbourne, his death occurring in December,
1873. In 1852 William Howitt came to Australia
and traversed three provinces, leaving his “Impres-
sions,” in two volumes, entitled “Land, Labor and
Gold,” published in 1855. He died at Rome in
March, 1879. Alfred Howitt, the explorer, was a
son of William and Mary Howitt. Another son was
killed while exploring in Maoriland.
Mr. T. F. Knox has resigned the job of
managing director of the great Dalgety firm
in Sydney, and will join the N.S.W. board of
advice. This sprig of the Knox family was
a partner in the old firm of Dalgety, Black-
wood and Co. The founder of the firm, Fred-
erick Gonnerman Dalgety, came of a soldier
family, his father and grandfather both
being in the army. Six of his uncles were
army officers; one of them, Lieut. Dalgety, of
the 45th, married Elizabeth Wiseman, ot
Wiseman’s Ferry, on the Hawkesbury. F.
G. Dalgety came to Sydney in 1834, and en-
tered the office of J. B. Montefiore, in O’Con-
nell-street. In 1842 he went to Melbourne
and commenced business with Griffiths, Bor-
radaile and Co. On the retirement of Grif-
fiths, Dalgety became senior partner, and
then the firm was Dalgety, Borradaile and
Goll. In 1854, with F. A. Du Croz. he
opened a house in London, under the style of
Dalgety and Co. —and Dalgety and Co. it
has remained ever since.
Hennessy, Melbourne’s new gaud Mayor,
has one particular weakness. He hates the
lightest allusion to the bakery in which he
was wont to knead his daily dough. He was
even seen to flush indignantly at Mayor
Davey’s valedictory luncheon, when some
stodgy body referred to “Councillor Hen-
nessy’s new role.” .. .
IOUNIONISM.
In the House of Representatives, Mr. Chapman
(N.S.W.) asked Mr. Fisher what steps he would take
to bring- about such amalgamation as would prevent
the duplication of savings banks.
Mr. Fisher replied that he met the Premiers in
conference, and put a proposal before them. The
Premiers did not accept it, but the Government was
still ready and willing to confer with the States on
the matter.
Mr. Page (Q.): Will you again hold out the olive
branch to the States?
Mr. Fisher: Yes; and they know it.
AUSTRALIA : "Look here, Fisher, this is appar-
ently the only sort of olive branch the States
will recognise at present."
“Horatio Breathless” —his personalities :
Has The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant an under-
study to carry on the historical business when he
retires, or are we to go without our mellow old tit-
bits of information? If he ever expresses a desire
for a coadjutor, I wish you would recommend me.
After years of study, I think I have grasped the
splendid system he invented in the cobwebby past,
when, as a precocious infant of five or so, he
started to fit himself for the position he now
adorns. First, he set himself a two-years’ course of
Corner Pubs and People Opposite. Then, having
driven in the corner posts, so to speak, of his
education, he started to fill in with a three-years’
course of Centre Block Pubs and People Next Door.
Hereabouts I picture him as a small, eager child
in Early Victorian garments standing before his
poke-bonnetted mother, and, with arms tightly folded
behind his back, rapidly repeating his publication
tables. Every visitor is proudly informed that
EDITOR HENEY, OF
THE “S.M. HERALDS."
Johnny is going in for
Oldest Inhabitantism,
and the clever child
is patted lightly on
the head and implored
never to forget the
good mother at whose
knee he learnt his
pubs. His only toys
are a sawn-off walk-
ing stick, a pair of
discarded horn spec-
tacles, a false white
beard, and a diminu-
tive frock coat built
by his doting mother
and decorated with a
large red handkerchief
hanging from the tail
pocket. Arrayed in
these, he sits in a
sunny corner and
quavers made-up re-
miniscences at the
other children, who
only live for the
moment with hoops,
tops and marbles. lie
chafes secretly at t h e
slow passing of the
years, and longs to be
old and full of pubs
and dates that other
people have forgotten.
He occasionally falls
into a passion when
he meets aged people
who remember things
that he never learnt.
But he takes a deadly
revenge by learning off
their ancient facts,
and, hist orically
speaking, pump-
ing them dry. Well,
he must feel good and
mellow now as he
burrows amongst his
antique information
and digs out his in-
teres ting historical
paragraphs. I want to
inherit those archives,
therefore I earnestly
desire to know if
there is any chance of
being appointed Coad-
iutor-Oldest Inhabitant
of Sydney, with right of succession.
SEVEN DAYS IN A COCKED HAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The official announcement is made that Sir Gerald
Strickland, Governor of Westralia, will, in March
next, succeed Lord Chelmsford as Governor of New
South Wales. — Most important news item.
Lady Chelmsford will open the kindergarten play-
ground on Monday. Lord and Lady Chelmsford will
leave Sydney on Tuesday on a visit to the Common-
wealth Portland Cement Works. His Excellency will
dine with the Royal Prince Alfred Yacht Club on
Thursday. Lord Chelmsford, who will be accom-
panied by Lady Chelmsford, will preside at the an-
nual meeting of the District Nursing Association at
St. James’s Hall on Friday, and will present the
prizes at the National Rifle Association meeting at
Randwick on Saturday. Lady Chelmsford will on the
same afternoon be present at the kindergarten display
in the Town Hall. — Recent week’s official programme
of the retiring N.S.W. State Governor.
Her Excellency, quite calm and cool,
On Monday opened the infant school.
She’d a splendid hat, a distinguished air,
And she did not flinch ’neath the infants’ stare.
Her clothes were as splendid as clothes could be ;
The teachers admired her rev’rently
And urged all the scholars to rise and wave
When somebody pounded a loyal “God Save.”
Their Excellencies on Tuesday went
To see how the working folk made cement —
The beautiful substance Deeming used.
Their Excellencies were very amused
And edified too, as they always are
When looking at toilers from near or far.
Three cheers with a will all the workmen gave,
And somebody fiddled a glad “God Save.”
His Excellency on Thursday dined ;
With table salts was the long board lined ;
They ate and drank and they toasted the deep,
And the bright white wings at an angle steep;
They welcomed their guest and they shouted he
Was “A Jolly Good Fellow,” with three times
three.
Then, like the tempest that troubles the wave,
They grumbled, and bellowed a wild “God Save.”
Their Excellencies on Friday went
To sit ’midst a nursing regiment
And gravely consider the talks re beds,
Wounds, operations and partly-split heads,
Pills, plasters and bandages, patients’ ways,
The crowds who owe and the rare bird that pays ;
No peace or quarter did either Ex. crave,
And right at the finish they got a “Save.”
Their Excellencies on Saturday
Cut up their duties. A kids’ display
Absorbed her attention, while he went out
To where all the riflemen lay about.
The hard week was ending—their brains were
tired,
And a long, deep rest was all they desired ;
But ere they were driven off home, these slaves
Had to gravely hearken to two more “Saves.”
God Save the King and their Exes, too;
God Save the Taxpayer who looks blue;
God Save the Time We Lose, God Save the Fuss;
God Save the Country, and God Save Us;
God Save the Salaries —seven in all;
God Save the Retinues, large and small.
So towards the Judgment we daily plod,
Spendthrifts in ev’rything Saved by God.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


fpHuwt&sscv
.jfMfafip
I*l iW iMM
je
'
■
IpliilliJullll
ft!
| f |mftf I! „
11 PH * f-\
fi] | ] ptff | M ;-v
is! lililiM
m
mk
!<j|fra
lliipl
% %>&s *4 Wk I
»- ;
• J -Ifi!
lillipi
piiiiii
piilii’.i;
WM
rS»
lit 11
tilt
&k
ifi
Mi!
; f.'
3?»
I
sft
■a
m
m
-
|>j;-;|r j ■ p
Iff pit
mm
MWI
t 'H $
HK
Hi
KM??
z&x*.
: r«
.‘fee
?PN
ft’
e! *5
itffF
"VQk
1
OJ-,
J
Iv
R / /
/
11
H H
\*.y
s JS
IS
111
s-iiS
L' ,-•■ \ m'Yt
M m\-
'.vj ißit
11.
n
11
Jf
111
m
list
K l •■•
ill
HS-5
?ri i C r
g£ x £ :;
3!i!
i Ml
HUMS
is
SI Miki
1 vnn
in
m
i mm
HL»
I.s-mR
s®-
j n ■:■ -
jftB3 ,
nB
«.s
w
I if
I
r "X
]H :
g||®
Krwa?-;*
Jss
10%
$ m
i, :#i*
Bwsa
fftl
rfWl
iii
II
Haft
11l
**?»£ 3
IMI
re i
Hi
it®
1
R£S
iSMga
w
av?
, iff? s
R 7
58
ipH|)
tm
Pl<ih v.’%\ K
m iifep
I fef £4&.:vs
\\
'®i jjf
S w
\
S'g j
51/
|-P
K '&.S ■
J -m. '
it 1
<r>
'C
, *:•- ; v»
ri
■o
“The Finish.”
Aye! so ends the tussle —I knew the tan muzzle
Was first, though the ring-men were yelling “Dead heat!”
A nose I could swear by, but Clarke said, “The mare by
A short head,” and that’s how the favorite was beat.
ADAM LINDSAY GORDON.
After all. it’s the finish. You can’t beat the finish of our suits. We have the most complete range of all kinds of Spring and
Summer Suitings, specialising in Australian. We quote—
The “Austral,” to Measure, 635., 705., 755.
The “Austral” Special (Hand=made), 845., 905., 955., 105 s.
If you cannot call, a postcard will bring you Self-measurement Form and Patterns.
GOWING BROS.,
■n
Pioneer Distributors of
Australian Goods*
488, 488, 490 George Street; and 7, 9,11,13,15 and 17 Royal Arcade,Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SISKOL" ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO.
PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1904.. £7,556 6 p.c. = £4,500 £3,056 £37,470
Sept., 1904.. 7,333 6 „ „ 4,500 2,833 40,303
Mar., 1905.. 8,335 6 ~ ~ 4,500 3,835 44,138
Sept., 1905.. 8,238 6 „,, 4,500 3,738 47,876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 „ „ 5,250 4,822 52,698
Sept., 1906.. 10,179 7 ~ ~ 5,250 4,929 57,627
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 70,127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7p.c.= 5,687 7,195 77,322
Sept., 1907.. 14,619 7 ~ ~ 7,000 7,619 84,941
Mar., 1908.. 13,517 7 ~ ~ 7,000 6,517 91,458
•-v.-pt., 1908.. 14,697 7 „,, 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 111,655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.c. = 10,062 7,941 119,596
0ept.,1909.. 17,974 7 ~ it 10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 ~ „ 10,500 8,049 135,119
S -pt., 1910.. 18,844 7 ~ ~10,500 8,344 143,463
Mar., 1911.. 20,529 7 ~ „ 10,500 10,029 153,492
Sept., 1911.. 20,180 7 ~ ~ 10,500 9,680 163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 ~ ~ 12,000 10,771 173,943
Sept., 1912.. 22,464 8 ~,,12,000 10,464 184,407
This bank’s figures look excellent. There are half-a-
dozen places of importance to probe a matter of this
kmd, and almost wherever you probe in connection
with the Royal you seem to get good results. First,
what proportion of rotten assets or unremunerative
business has it got on its books? You can generally,
though not always, get some idea of that by finding
out what profit it is making in proportion to its
funds (capital and reserves combined) ; and this is
how the Royal figures in that respect:—
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., 1909.. £9 3 11 p.c. Mar., 1911.. £9 5 2 p.c.
5ept.,1909.. 811 4 ~ Sept., 1911.. 817 10 „
Mar., 1910.. 813 9 ~ Mar., 1912.. 916 8 „
Sept., 1910.. 813 3 „ Sept., 1912.. 9 9 7,,
Which are very fine figures indeed. But there is
another point. Obviously the more of the public’s
money a bank has at risk in proportion to its own,
the bigger its profits ought to be. The Royal, not-
withstanding its fine £9 9s. 7d. p.c., has the use of
only a moderate amount of public money—less than
£5 for every £1 of its own. That suggests two
things, (1) an exceptionally profitable business con-
nection; (2) comparatively small risks, because, of
course, the more public money a bank lends out, the
bigger its chances of being hit with losses. Cer-
tainly these tests are not infallible. A bank might
show big profits and still not actually make them.
In other words it might charge a high rate of in-
terest on a risky security and merely add the inter-
est on to the shaky debt. The accounts can’t tell you
anything about that. All you can do is to find out
whether a bank’s management is the sort of manage-
ment that would be likely to do that kind of thing.
There are two rough tests of a bank’s prudence—
(l) the amount of liquid assets it holds in propor-
tion to its liabilities; (2) the proportion of profits
it lays by. In both respects the Royal shows up
very well. It owes £2,216,847 to the public, and it
holds nearly 49 p.c. of that amount in cash and
other liquid shapes; and for some years past it has
been consistently paying away very little more than
half of its declared profits.
Going into further details, this is how the position
compares with that of 12 months ago:—
Sept., Sept.,
1911. 1912.
Notes in circulation .. £3,020 £1,335 Dec. £1,685
Bills in circulation, etc. 117,928 85,321 Dec. 32,607
Deposits at interest.. 1,319,277 1,364,354 Inc. 45,077
Free deposits .. .. 778,200 765,837 Dec. 12,363
Liquid assets .. .. 1,013,082 1,073,980 Inc. 60,898
Advances .. .. 1,621,074 1,581,815 Dec. 39,259
Premises .. .. 57,940 57,460 Dec. 480
There are no changes of much consequence there;
but such as there are they suggest that the manage-
ment is preparing for possible squalls. The slight
curtailment of advances and the manner in which
the bank is hanging on to liquid assets are both
significant. There is less immediate profit in that
policy than in some others; but there is better sleep
—and probably more profit in the long run.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland (Bris-
bane) :—•
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’04.. £9,569 3£ p.c. = £8,427 £1142 £64,782
June,’os.. 9,673 3J „ ~ 8,463 1210 65,992
Dec., ’05.. 9.596 3| „ „ 8,468 1428 67,420
June,’o6.. 10,016 3f „ „ 8,468 1548 68,968
Dec., ’06.. 10,933 4 „ „ 9,711 £l5OO 68,690
June,’o7.. 11,246 4 ~ ~ 9,790 1456 70,146
Dec., ’07.. 12,626 44 „ ~11,162 1000 464 70,610
Mar., ’OB.. 6,305 41 ~ ~ 5,709 596 71,206
Sept.,’oB.. 12,768 4J „ ~11,597 1171 72,377
Mar., ’09.. 12,707 4J ~ ~11,719 988 73,365
Sept.,’o9.. 12,826 41 „ ~11,864 962 74,327
Mar., ’lO.. 13,211 4* „ ~12,100 1111 75,438
Sept.,TO.. 13,338 44 „ ~12,228 1110 76,548
Mar., ’ll.. 15,137 5 „ ~13,746 1000 391 76,939
Sept.,’ll.. 15,586 5 „ ~13,931 1500 155 77,094
Mar., T 2.. 15,969 5 ~ ~ 14,156 1500 313 77,407
Sept.,’l2.. 15,857 5 „ ~14,260 1500 97 77,504
The £l5OO shown as written off goes to a contin-
gency fund, and presumably that is something in
the way of an internal reserve—a trifle that the
management puts up its sleeve in case some of the
securities don’t realise 20s. in the £. It isn’t cer-
tain whether the management can lay its hand on its
waistcoat and swear that the assets are worth 20s.
in the £ at present. For a good many years they
unquestionably were not worth anything like that
much ; and no doubt a great deal of the profit was
dropped in to fill up the hole without any mention
being made of the circumstance. It is probable that
something of the same sort is still being done; anyway,
the Queensland Royal’s management isn’t reputedly
of the kind that would pay away over 90 p.c. of ail
its profits. As they stand, the figures don’t look
well; and the only charitable assumption is that the
real profits are greater, but the management still
finds some filling-up to do or some doubtful assets
still left to strengthen by vigorous writing down.
Evidently the investment market continues to have
some doubts as to whether the writing-down of the
old assets has been thorough enough, because the £6
10s. shares are still quoted at about £5 10s. More-
over, the disclosed earnings (though admittedly they
may not be full earnings) are poor enough to like-
wise suggest that the assets are not, on the whole, a
very profitable lot. Calculated on capital and re-
serves combined, this is the recent record:—
Profits Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., 1909.. £4 9 6 p.c. Mar., 1911.. £5 1 0 p.c.
Sept., 1909.. 4 8 3 „ Sept., 1911.. 5 2 2,,
Mar., 1910.. 4 9 11 „ Mar., 1912.. 5 310 „
Sept., 1910.. 4 9 9 „ Sept., 1912.. 5 2 4,,
Certainly the bank hasn’t got the use of any large
amount of public money. The total liabilities are
£1,548,452 ; the capital is £542,389, and the re-
serves, after providing for the dividend, £77,504.
Total of shareholders’ funds, £619,893. Thus, for
every £1 of shareholders’ money in the business
there is only £2 10s. of the public’s—an exceed-
ingly small proportion. This to some extent accounts
for the poor earnings in proportion to share capital.
If Queensland has a few more good years—and it
will probably be better off this current year than
the wheat-growing States —no doubt the Royal will
be able to make good any losses that have not hither-
to been squared, by filling up the hole with undis-
closed profit or otherwise. But it is certain that the
doubt as to the real value of the assets is a serious
handicap. Not only are people disinclined to drop
their money into an institution about which there is
any such manifest uncertainty, but a good many
prudent people are disinclined to even become bor-
rowing customers, lest the loan may be called up
at an inconvenient time. On the best information
available, The Bulletin believes that the Royal
could have a thorough cleaning up without making
any serious assault on its capital ; and it is well
worth considering whether it wouldn’t be good busi-
ness to do it.
There have been no great visible changes in the
past 12 months: —
Sept., ’ll. Sept., ’l2.
Bibs and Notes .. £37.069 £12,993 Dec. £24,076
Deposits, etc. .. 1,470,871 1,535,459 Inc. 64,588
Liquid Assets .. 606,975 668,547 Inc. 61,572
Advances .. .. 1,451,983 1,44'>,924 Dee. 11,059
Premises .. .. 74,492 74,634 Inc. 142
Thus, as mentioned before, the bank owes the public
£1,548,452, and it has £668,547 of liquid assets.
The position from a cash point of view is strong;
and quite likely the bank could with safety let out
a good deal more money if the right securities were
offering.
* * ♦ *
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900.. £l7OO 5 p.c. =£1250 £450 £4,258
1901.. 2074' 6 ~ ~ 1500 574 4,832
1902.. 2302 6 „ ~ 1500 802 5,634
1903.. 3939 8 ~ „ 2000 1939 7,573
1904.. 4g26 8 ~ ~ 2000 2226 9,799
1905.. 6724 10 „ ~ 2500 4224 14,023
1906.. 5172 10 ~ ~ 2500 2672 16,695
1907.. 5118 10 „ „ 2500 2618 19,313
1908.. 6013 10 ~ ~ 2500 3513 22,826
1909.. 5712 10 ~ ~ 2500 3212 26,038
1910.. 6463 10 ~ „ 2500 3963 30,001
1911.. 6241 10 „ „ 2500 3741 33,742
1912.. 5833 10 ~ ~ 3000 2833 36,575
The total of the last year’s dividend may be a trifle
more or less than £3OOO. During the twelve months
another shilling per share has been called up on the
200,000 shares, and this extra shilling (making the
£5 shares paid to 3s. 6d.) only carries the dividend
from the time the coin was actually paid. If the
dividend comes to a trifle more than £3OOO there
will still be a comfortable surplus to lay by ; and on
the record of the past 10 years the 10 p.c. on the in-
creased capital can be easily maintained. In fact,
the reserves are now so substantial that, if the
shareholders’ funds earn only 4 p.c., all that the
trustee business need bring in to make up the 10
p.c. is £637. Certainly shareholders’ funds disap-
pear sometimes; but, there shouldn’t be any great
risk in this case: £20,000 is deposited with the
N.S.W. Government, £35,023 is out on mortgage,
£14,051 is in city freehold premises, and the bal-
ance is represented by cash and deposits. Altogether
these trustee cos. are on a very good wicket. They
can invest practically the whole of their capital and
reserves, for their non-productive plant runs to only
an ink-pot or two and a door-mat. And the longer
they live and behave themselves the greater is the
tendency to give them the work which was mostly
hitherto done —and done pretty badly—by people
who had no special qualifications for the job, and who
had a habit of dying or being elsewhere when the
time came to look after the widow's interests. Never-
theless, it is quite likely that this and other trustee
cos. won’t go on doing quitp as well as they have
done lately. Times have been extra good and that
means big revenues from estates and bloated returns
when the estates are realised; and the bigger the
.yield to the beneficiaries the bigger the trustee
co.’s commission earnings. Still, though things may
ease off presently, the chances are that these cos. will
get more estates to administer. In 1902 the value
of the trusts in the hands of the Sydney Permanent
was £1,552,419, and that was after 15 years of life;
now, only 10 years later, the value is £3,154,039,
or a trifle more than twice as much. Of course
there are risks. The courts may, for instance, decide
that a co. has misread a will or - other document,
and the accident may cost thousands. But the greater
the co.’s experience the less liable should it be to
these accidents, and even when they didn’t have
much experience the accidents were very rare. In
fact, it is hard to recall even one in N.S.W.
* * * *
The Commercial Building and Invest-
ment Co. (Sydney) :
Loss on
Loss on Property Total Dividend
June, Business. Sales. Loss. (5 p.c.). Deficit.
1902 .. £45 45 £9524
Profit. Profit.
1903 708 708 8,816
1904 .. 286 286 8,530
Loss. Loss.
1905 .. 396 £8165 8561 17,091
Profit. Profit.
1906 .. 758 758 -- 16,333
1907 ..327 327 16,006
1908 ..819 819 15,187
Profir.
1909 .. 2425 2500 4925 10,262
Loss. Loss.
1910 .. 790 5850 5060 15,322
Reserves.
Capital written off, £106,024, reducing- it to
£54,624, and leaving .. .. .. 22,474
Loss on Lo-s on Total
Business. Sales. Loss.
1911 .. 907 6645 - 7552 14,922
Profit. Profit. Total Profit.
1912 .. 4610 2331 6941 2731 19,132
This co. may have paid a dividend previously, but,
if so, the incident is beyond the memory of the
Oldest Inhabitant. The eo. had the bad luck to
buy nearly everything it possessed at the bubble
prices that ruled during the boom of the ’Bo’s, and
it had the worse luck to make most of its purchases
with other people’s money. In 1893, when it first
completely realised that it was in the soup, it had
a paid capital of £50,000, while its liabilities were
£225,896. All this money it had put into pro-
perty—-£238,418 in the city and £40,415 in the
suburbs. Nobody would buy, and thus enable the
co. to pay off its creditors; moreover, most of the
bargains had been so bad that the properties refused
to even pay interest on the debt. The result was
that shareholders had to be called upon, and when
they couldn’t come up to the scratch their shares
were forfeited. There were 20,000 shares of £lO
each paid to £2 10s. when the trouble happened;
and before the directors reckoned that the time was
ripe for a final clearing-up, another £6 10s. had
been called, and 4393 shares had been wiped out
for non-payment. At present there are thus 15,607
shares, reduced to a nominal value of £4 10s. each,
and regarded as paid to £3 10s. The 5 p.c. div.
is, therefore, only 5 p.c. in a manner of speaking.
To the shareholders who have hung on throughout
the misery it represents a shade under 2 p.c. ; to
those who had to drop out exhausted it represents
nothing at all.
The co. has now reduced its holdings to £119,250-
of city and £14,875 of suburban property, and its
other assets, mostly liquid, total £10,878. Its lia-
bilities have been reduced to £68,516. The old
policy of selling when the chance comes along is;
still being followed, though, considering the liveli-
ness of the property market, no great things were
done last year; the property account was only re-
duced from £143,234 to £134,125. In the table
at the head of these remarks, profit on sales is set
down at £2331. That amount has been added to
a contingency fund, and presumably it has been
drawn from sales, there being nothing else visible
from which it could be drawn. Working expenses
have been much reduced, and to that and the keen
demand for city offices the co. is indebted for its
profit, equal (apart from the presumed profit on
sales) to about 8 p.c. on the written-down capital.
But whether the present demand for office premises
will continue this paper isn’t prepared to say. It
is quite likely that droves of the people who have
latterly hung out their shingles as general agents
will before long have to get work.
The Castlemaine Brewery Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1901 .. £11,963 5 p.c. =£6250 £2,500 £7,135
1912.. 7,589 5 ~ ~ 6250 8,474
1903.. 1,421 Nil 9,895
1904.. 4,255 Nil 8,599 5,551
1905.. 6,263 4 p.c. = 5000 1,500 5,314
1906.. 1,498 Nil 2,000 4,812
Loss. Deficit.
1907.. 11,302 Nil 2,396 8,886
Written off Advances .. 2,571 11,757
Written off Freeholds, Brewery,
etc. (net) .'. 29,029 40,786
Sept., Loss.
1908.. 1,442 Nil 42,228
Reserves.
Capital written off (7/6 per share = £46,575) .. 4,647
Profit.
1909.. 1,581 2 p.c. = 1562 *— 4,666
Unexplained additions, £6610 11.276
1910.. 8,184 5 p.c. = 3906 15,554
1911.. 8,1 S 3 6 ~ „ 4688 19,049
1912.. 11,843 6 ~ „ 4688 26,204
When the Melbourne brewery people dec (led that they
had been making asses of themselves, and that
competition isn’t all it is cracked up to be, the
Castlemaine was one of those that came into the
combine. Like most of the others it had tried to
buy trade by buying pubs, mostly at absurdly high
prices; and when the froth was blown off the boom,
and assets were revalued, there was a considerable
hunk of capital to be written off. The arrival of
the combine —officially known as the Carlton and
United Breweries Prop., Ltd. —put a new face on
things. Many of the preceding years had been as dry
as a Wowser’s sermon ; but with the reduction of
expenses and the stoppage of some of the waste, the
Castlemaine Co. has climbed to what looks like a
steady 5 or 6 p.c. on the reduced capital. Even 5 or
6 p.c. certainly isn’t very much ; but it looks better
when the eye also sweeps in the rapid growth of
reserves. Thus in the last three years the disclosed
profits have been £28,210, and only £13,282 has been
cut up among shareholders. It is very virtuous, no
doubt; still to some extent it is a virtue that the
management can’t avoid. The co. still owes on de-
bentures nearly £70,000, and these debentures call
for a sinking fund, which explains a good deal of the
milk in the cocoanut. However, whether it goes to
a sinking fund or not, the profit that isn’t divided is
so much put by, because when the debentures are
paid off the, original assets will remain—unless some-
thing bad happens.
And it is at least possible that something bad may
happen. Consider these other figures:-
Liabilities.
1900. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Debenture debt .. £luo,ooo £76,700 £76,700 £69,a 0
Other debts to public 55,838 27,303' 24,821 25,024
Assets.
Breweries, etc. .. 83,569 1 1A _ ( , ClA „'|
Stock and plant .. 34,777 f V 118,033
Hotels, etc 107,686 93,457 94,920 J
Advances, trade
debtors .. .. 58,162 1,385 958 6,387
Cash, etc 6,261 202 179 203
Carlton and United
Breweries’ shares.. 76,875 76,875 76,875
Thus a heap, if not all, of the borrowed money is
represented by hotel properties ; and almost anything
may happen to hotel properties nowadays. For the
present, certainly, these assets appear to be worth all
of 20s. in the £. Anyway, a profit of about £l6OO
appears to have been made on sales in 1911 and
about £2200 in the past year, though what sort of
assets were sold isn’t clear. The co.’s interest in
the combine is nominally worth £102,500, less
£25,625 to the credit of a book-keeping contin-
gency fund; but how much of the £76,875 -net is
represented by tangible assets and how much by
goodwill froth isn’t mentioned. The chances are that
it is mostly froth: and if so the Castlemaine Co.’s
reserves are froth too. Still, while the combine holds
together and controls the bulk of the Melbourne trade,
the revenue is likely to be all right. This co. has
drawn a steady £8985 for three years past—enough to
pay 6 p.c. on the capital and leave £4297 over towards
exes, and etceteras. How much etceteras will get rid
of depends mainly upon the return from the en-
cumbered pub properties and other more or less sub-
stantial assets. Last year they gave more than
enough to pay for their own keep, so that the profit
was made up something like this: —
Combine receipts, less management exes... £7,804
Pub and other rents, less rates, re-
pairs, compensation, etc. . .. £4377
Less interest . . . . .. 3576
801
Profit on sales.. .. .. .. .. 2,274
Sinking fund interest.. .. .. .. 964
Total profit .. .. .. .. £11,843
* * * *
The Castlem/ ine Brewery and Wood
Bros, and Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.):—-
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £13,093 4 p.c. = £lO,OOO £3OOO £93 £41,983
1902.. 13,185 4 „ „ 10,000 3000 185 42,168
1903.. 13,080 4 „ ~ 10,000 3000 80 42,248
1904.. 13,022 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 22 42,270
1905. 13,000 4 „ ~ 10,000 3000 42,270
1906.. 15,019 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 2019 44,289
1907.. 15,522 4 ~ „ 10,000 3500 2022 46,311
1908.. 14,754 4 „ ~ 10,000 2500 2254 48,565
1909.. 13,767 4 „ „ 10.000 3000 767 49,332
1910.. 13,387 4 „ „ 10,000 2250 1137 50,469
1911.. 10,346 4 ~ ~ 10,000 346 50,815
1912.. 15,551 4* „ „ 11,250 4301 55,116
That means 4 p.c. for the first half of the year and
5 p.c. for the second half; and presumably this is a
hint that the directors think they can see a steady
5 p.c. ahead of them. A remark in the directors’
report may be of even more importance than that.
“As specially desired by shareholders,” they say, “a
reliable valuation has been obtained of the co.’s free-
hold and leasehold properties. This valuation dis-
closes a substantial appreciation upon the existing
book values, and will enable your directors during
the current year to write off a substantial sum from
goodwill account.” How much goodwill there is to
write off is a dark mystery; it is lumped in the
accounts with freeholds and leaseholds, buildings,
machinery, plant and rolling-stock. Still, though
there is an indefinite quantity of padding in the good-
will item, it is some satisfaction to be assured that
there is now none in the real property item. While
they are about it the directors ought to let share-
holders and investors know as much about this matter
as they are in a position to know themselves. So
far as’the published accounts go the goodwill may be
£150,000 or £lO,OOO. In other words, the co.’s
substantial assets may be £lOO,OOO less than the
paid capital ( £250,000), or they may be nearly
£50,000 more. For years past the published ac-
counts have been a farce, and the people behind the
scenes have been at an enormous advantage com-
pared with those who only know what the manage-
ment has chosen to tell them. Twelve months ago
it was represented that a smaller profit had been
made than for many years past. Yet share values
moved up pretty steadily, until they stood at 50 p.c.
higher than they had done when larger profits were
disclosed. The reticence is supposed to be dictated
by the interests of the co. ; but the fact is that the
trade competitor is most likely one of the few people
outside the management who really know the true
position ; and, anyhow, in a business of this sort it
doesn’t matter two pints whether the trade competitor
knows the true position or not. Though the items in
the accounts don’t throw very much light on the
situation, here they are:—
1901. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Liabilities to public .. £68,3u7 £69,565 £69,855 £74,177
Properties, goodwill,
plant, etc 215,922 258,168 263,400 266,027
Freeholds (special
account) 41,848 47,138 48,528 46,673
Sundry debtors .. .. 77,348 39,667 37,361 41,800
Bills, cash, etc 6,826 10,463 6,205 9,670
Stock 26,346 21,849 20,177 21,373
Receipts 61,716 49,797 46,231 64,758
Expenses (including pro-
vision for bad debts).. 48,623 36,410 35,885 49,207
While the financial strength of the co. is so uncer-
tain, ' because one doesn’t know what paper assets
there are, there appears to have been a big increase
in trade; and part of the local exolanation of tnis
very cheerful feature is that the beer has been of
better quality.
The Newcastle Coal Co. (N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £7107 5 p.o. = £2500 £7963 £8613
June, 1905.. 3582 Nil 2688 £894 9507
Dec., 1905.. 6854 6 p.c. = 3000 6137 7224
June, 1906.. 5376 (> ~ ~ 3000 360 l 5999
Dec., 1906.. 3682 6 ~ ~ 3000 2093 4588
June, 1907.. 6827 5 ~ ~ 2500 2556 1771 6359
Dec., 1907.. 5561 5 ~ ~ 2500 1143 1918 8277
June, 1908.. 7633 5 ~ ~ 2500 6326 7084
Dec., 1908.. 8211 5 ~ ~ 2500 5430 281 7365
June, 1909.. 7014 5 ~ ~ 2500 5234 6645
Dec., 1909.. 3807 Nil 4134 6318
June, 1910.. 2698 Nil 4305 4711
Dec., 1910.. 2963 Nil 3600 4074
June, 1911.. 4967 5 p.c.= 2500 2351 116 4190
Dec., 1911.. 7730 5 ~ „ 2500 4309 921 5111
June, 1912.. 6481 5 ~ ~ 2500 3358 623 5734
These belated remarks apply to a co. that has got
almost to the end of its tether at its old Newcastle
mine, and is therefore developing a new property, the
Whitburn. This latter has been brought to the pro-
ductive stage at little expense. Consider this com-
parison :
June, 1907. Dec., 1911. June, 1912.
Liquid assets .. £lO,BBl £19.402 £19,611
Liabilities .. 3,336 15,773 13,612
Surplus .. £13,545 £3,629 £5,999
That covers the whole period occupied by the pur-
chase and equipment of the new mine. Thus, though
the co. dropped divs. for only 18 months, it has got
its surplus of liquid assets back to within about
£7500 of what it was before the new property was
bought. The co. has a lot to thank the Vend and a
brisk trade for. The. capital is in 10,000 shares of
£ll, paid to £lO. #
One of the innumerable Castlemaine
breweries of Australia hangs out its signboard at
Fremantle (W.A.), and does pretty well out of the
ardent thirst of the great sandy State. On a capital
of £60,000, in fully-paid £1 shares, a profit of
£4820 was made in the past six months after put-
ting £BO6 to a depreciation account. A div. at the
rate of 10 p.c. absorbs £3OOO, or, with tax, £3150,
and the balance (£1670) goes towards reserves.
Apart from the depreciation fund, which probably
isn’t a true reserve, the reserves amount to £17,941.
But tangible assets don't, apparently, amount to
that much in excess of capital, because there are
one or two paper assets, including goodwill of an
unspecified size; and there isn’t any hint that _ this
froth on the pot is being blown off. The habit of
lumping goodwill, etc., with the assets that you can
drink or chew or stumble over in the dark isn’t a
pretty one, and where it is practised the public can’t
tell whether the break-up value of the concern is 2s.
or 255. per share. Also, pub properties, if there
are any, should, not be put in the same barrel as
brewery premises. These accounts mention “freehold
and leaseholds,” and leave it at that. Presumably
there are pub properties, because £4327 is owing
by the co. on account of “hotel leaseholds and free-
holds.” Apart from that item the liabilities are
small, totalling £2OOO, while assets, exclusive of
the premises, plant, rolling stock and goodwill heap,
amount to £21,787, more than half of it being out
on loan. Like most brewery accounts, those issued
by this co. are pretty vague; but there is certainly
nothing in them calculated to afflict investors with
cold shivers.
The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corporation
(Sydney).—The prospectus of this co. was issued in
Sydney in June, 1911. The object of the eo. was
to take over and extend the fertilizer business of
Arthur H. Hasell in N.S.W. No balance-sheet of
this business was issued; nevertheless, the owners
received 5000 £1 ordinary shares-for it, and the
co. agreed in advance to employ Mr. Hasell as
managing director for 15 years at a salary of not
less than £5OO p.a., and also to make his firm the
co.’s managing agent for the sale and distribution of
its products at 7s. 6d. per ton on superphosphates
and 5 p.c. on most other products. Alluring figures
were put forward as to probable profits. With
£50,000 available, £30,000 for a factory which it
was proposed to build, and £20,000 for raw mater-
ials for the first year’s output—a profit of £9052
was figured. No doubt, owing mainly to the terms
named above, the promoters failed utterly to raise
£50,000. Of 25,000 6 p.c. pref. shares offered to the
public, only 4120 were taken, and of 70,000 ordin-
ary shares (entitled to 12 p.c. before the prefs. get
more than 6 p.c.) only 16,638 have been applied for.
The cash actually got in was £12,742 —at a cost in
flotation exes, of £2064. Under these circum-
stances the co.’s plans have had to be entirely
altered. No works have been erected; “plant”
figures in the accounts for only £259. Neverthe-
less, sales for the period from May 8, 1911, to
August 31, 1912, amounted to £42,817, and a net
profit of- £1375 is shown. Out of this profit £5OO
is written off preliminary exes., £99 goes as bonus
to shareholders who patronised the co., the prefs. get
6 p.c. and the ordinaries 5 p.c. The divs. will
wipe up £726. N. S. Wales badly needed a co-
operative concern for the supply of fertilizers and
wheat-sacks ; but this co. is unfortunately loaded
with what may turn out to be an oppressive 15-year
agreement with a private firm, on top of a stiff
payment for goodwill. The future depends very
largely upon the prices current for the output. The
directors say that, “owing to the corporation’s
active operations, our competitors have found it
necessary to reduce their retail price for season
1913,” which doesn’t sound too cheerful so far as
future profits are concerned, though it may be a
very good reason indeed why the farmer should
keep a co-operative concern going. And though this
concern isn’t all it might be in the co-operative
way, it is a good second-best.
Last week Treasurer Cann, of the
McGowen Government, got a disagreeable surprise
when he was informed that Uncle Cohen, of London,
was only willing to advance half of the £3,000,000
loan he had applied for. Seems to be the old story
of the Cann that went too often to the well.
* * * *
Occidental Gold (N.S.W.) proposes to in-
crease its capital by the issue of 28,000 contributing
shares of 10s. each. Present capital is £84,000, in
£1 shares. The last dividend, 3d. per share, was
paid just about two years ago. Since then the co.
has been messing around with alterations to plant,
and has been steadily drifting into a bog. Last
half-year’s loss was £2566 ; and at the close of the


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 & 6 Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 9 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th September, 1912 .. ..£9,672,366 8 0
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
CHARGES LOW. ABSOLUTE SECURITY.
EXPERT MANAGEMENT.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
at from 5 per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane ; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney;
McGLEW & CO., Adelaide; M ALLOCH BROS., Perth
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction, should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnlev
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and, spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. A saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. by 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa, it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life,Offices”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE can be fitted with the
greatest ease to any existing system, while the lav-
ing of the pipe can be done by any intelligent
laborers, by following the directions in the instruc-
tion-book issued by the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain and Footscray.*
* * * *
A boy can do the work of 10 men by using s
suitable pulley block, and can do it quicker. Mad<
in all sizes, from half-ton to 60 tons. See page 3
Full particulars from Haes and Eggers, Ltd., 16<
Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
co Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd
ney.* [2
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
CoimisoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
* * * *
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Meeh. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
period the cash assets Were £12,422, against liabili-
ties, £12,719. Shareholders were then assured that
the end Of the capital expenditure was in sight, and
that profits could shortly be expected. Fancy figures
were forthcoming about the improved extraction from
the slimes. Now, however, it is admitted that
further additions to the plant are absolutely neces-
sary, and reliable opinion is that these won’t be
covered by the Whole of the new capital. There is
evidence of mismanagement somewhere ; and the re-
shuffling now going on With the technical managers
does not go far enough. Shares have sagged steadily
from Bs. to 3s. 6d., and now the reason is out. Some-
body, of course, knew all along.
Zeb. Lane, who died in Berlin the other
day after an operation, was the first manager of
the Broken Hill North, which he turned down in
favor of a much inferior mine, Block 14. Of his
contemporaries, James Hebbard seems to be the only
one still taking nourishment. Hebbard, now the big
Sulphide Corporation’s manager, was one of the first
20 men at work on the B. H. Prop., and from there
he went to the Junction. Lane, though he reported
on scores of shows for company-mongers during the
big silver boom, was nothing as a geologist, and his
big rise at the Great Boulder was a lucky fluke
They didn’t find what they were looking for, but
stumbled on something quite distinct and different.
After that all was gold-top.
* * * *
Some inspired person, writing about the
“g Lae which has caused excitement at Ardlethan
(N.S.W.), states that “the best proof of its promise
as a tin producer is shown by the fact that ,”
the dots representing various returns from small
parcels of ore and concentrates. The returns show
exceeding great richness--from £5O to £B5 per ton
° f i ° r ?F' a ' nd are very gratifying so far as they go.
But they are proofs of past production and not
of future returns. In tin-lode mining a little more
than a few sensational yields from shallow depths is
wanted before big things can be talked about. One
other requisite is proof that the metal lives down,
and the Ardlethan field is as yet painfully backward
in producing 1 that proof. Even the longitudinal con-
tmuity has only been inconclusively proved ; though
certainly the ground has been pegged for miles, and
occasional finds have been made. The Carpatiha
mine, though hardly below the grass roots, is being
floated. Logan Jack, in his report, estimates the
width of the lode to be 16ft. to 20ft. One parcel
of ore is said to have assayed 57.1 p.c. A peculiar
feature about the stuff is the effectual wav in which
ironstone stains mask the presence of the tin so
much so that the weight gives the only hint of what
is in the ore.
lodide (N.S.W.) will sink the- main shaft
and probe its chloride section” to a greater depth.
According to Blakemore, one of the directors the
present workings are too shallow to give an idea of
the secondary enrichment that- is usually met with
below a porous outcrop. Very little is known as to
the size, etc., of the ore body. The western drive
measures 180 ft. from the shaft, and values run 4
ooti. • and 3-7 oz. silver. The centre crosscut is in
88ft. in kaolin and gossan. The eastern winze is
down 19ft., and assays show 6 p.c. lead and 2oz.
silver. These are low values in comparison with
those given some time since as coming from the
chloride section, where the average was nearly 10
p.c. lead and 590 z. silver. Calls will have to be
made.
The Kempsey Cedar and Hardwood Tim-
*s • 0n the market. The vendor syndicate asks
7a aa pa * d shares for the timber rights of
10,000 acres near Kempsey (N.S.W.), and the public
is invited to take 25,000 shares. The vendor syndi-
cate isn’t apparently in the timber business, so
nothing but estimates are available. If 15s. per share
is called up, it is reckoned that, after providing for
a depletion fund, etc., a profit of £7550 a year can
be made, but The Bulletin takes no responsibility
for the attractive figures.
* * * *
Mount Lyell directors held a meeting in
Melbourne last week, to discuss the changed con-
ditions. The directors will do their best to keep
the staff together and provide work at Mount L.vell
and Lyell Tharsis, which are away from the fire.
It is honed that one furnace, with a smelting capacity
of 10,000 tons per month, may be kept going, in
order to pull the co. through its trouble. Arrange-
ments have been made to crosscut from the Lyell
Blocks’ shaft into the North Lyell 1000 ft. level; and
the North Lyell is being flooded, as the only avail-
able way of stopping the fire.
Dividends totalling £88,332 were paid, by
Westralian gold crts. during September, . making
£589,348 for the expired nine months df the year,
and £22,767,607 since the birth of the industry.
Compared With the 19li figures the dividends dis-
tributed during the first three quarters of this year
show a decrease of £37,910.
Great Fingall (W.A.) is getting every-
thing shipshape in the internal shaft workings below
No. 13 level, and may go in for bigger returns very
shortly. The new shoot exposed at the 16th, 17th
and 18th levels is not nearly so valuable as that
which made the mine famous in days gone by, but
it contains much better ore than was ever expected at
depth. At the 16th level values range from 20s. to
445. over a fair length, while in the two levels below
this point there is a much longer run of payable ore,
and average values are also better.
Critics who not long ago were booming
the Great Boulder (W.A.) when this paper wasn’t,
now attempt to hide their foolishness by finding fault
with the management, “Anyone could have run the
Boulder up to 12 months agb,” retnarks one of the
tribe, Wrong 1 Up to the time that its backbone
Was taken by the Horseshoe it Was the soundest
property on the field, and had been brought into this
position by sheer good management. While other
mines were starved, and in some cases almost
strangled for the of development, the Boulder
management went on sinking, and never worked the
show above its capacity. “Very little prospecting
has been done below 2000 ft., and the destinies of
such great possibilities should not be in the hands
of those who have no confidence in it, and, like rats,
are scurrying away.” Wrong again! There has
been a good deal of prospecting below 2000 ft., and
sufficient has been done below 2500 ft. to show that,
in the light of present indications, only the addle-
brained would advocate more expenditure than has
been already incurred or proposed.
Mulga Queen, at Erlstoun (W.A.), is
stated to have been acquired by a Scottish syndicate
for £3500, of which £l5OO is to be paid out of
profits. The cemetery wherein this mine is situated is
full of ventures which have died young, and there
seems little hope of the Queen reaching old age.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) have at last got a little
encouragement in driving the west crosscut at the
1689 ft. level. At 567 ft. they have struck 28in. of,
ore, worth 355. a ton, so the crosscut has been
stopped at 586 ft. and driving is to be gone on with.
This strike must come as a bit of a surprise to the
co., as the stone is neither the Horseshoe No. 2 nor
No. 3 lode, but evidently a continuation of the
’Shoe’s No. 1, which is itself a continuation of the
Ivanhoe West lode. In the latter mine this lode was
large and poor. It has been worked to a limited
extent in the ’Shoe above the 300 ft. level, and has
been pierced by bores at 1000 ft., 1200 ft. and 1300 ft.
opposite the main shaft and about 500 ft. west of it.
The values obtained in the Chaffers crosscut read
very nice compared with the general run of the de-
velopments ; but a mighty lot of work will have to
be done before it can be turned to account. In any
case it is barely 24ft. wide, and even if it were 24
yards wide, it is 500 ft. west of, and 700 ft. below, any
of the deeper workings, and a good sum will have to
be spent to open it up properly. So there is no call
for shareholders to go building castles in the air,
especially as castles built on surprise developments
have, as a rule, a bad habit of collapsing when the
next face is fired.
* * * *
All going well, Associated Northern
(W.A.) hopes to make a fortune out of its new mine
at Ora Banda. The first two returns have, as pre-
dicted' in previous issues, not been much to blow
about; but now that the plant is in full swing,
monthly profits are expected (bar accidents and
treatment troubles) to exceed £7OOO. Shareholders
can work out for themselves what this means in
dividends. Still, there are flies already visible in
the butter. Owing to bad weather and puggy
material, the Ridgeway filters are not treating the
tonnage expected, and in order to handle the esti-
mated 12,000 tons a month one or two more mav
have to be added to the plant.
* * * *
8., M. and Co. have left Porcupine. Of
the many frost-bitten areas which they were en-
thusiastic about at the time of the boom only the
Hollinger has made good, and the interest of the
firm’s crowd in this show should compensate a bit
for the losses it sustained in other things. Sons of
Gwalia was induced in a weak moment to risk
_£25,000 in a Porcupine venture, but how much it
is likely to get back is still an unknown quantity.
* * * *
The Bulletin said some time ago that
Oroya Links (W.A.) was dependent on the Oroya North
Block for its profits, and that when the new shoot
in this area gave out it would cease to bloom. Now
the local paper directs attention to the co.’s de-
creasing profits, and attributes the' trouble to the
aforesaid shoot passing into the adjoining North
Boulder. The beginning of the end.
Westralia has at last awakened to the
fact that it has been diddled out of revenue, and in
future all cos. will have to pay tax on profits in-
stead of on dividends.
* * * *
Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), isn’t so “stiff”
as was thought, for the co. closes the half-year owing
the bank only a small oddment of £650. This is
after bringing up the cost of the No. 3 shaft and
workings to £10,075. What kept the overdraft
down was the reserve built up when divs. were on,
helned by a neat average of 3oz. got from 162
fathoms treated from wash from the new shaft. All
Alec Peacock’s shows are full of ’ope, Cathcart being
especially chock up with it. So out comes the tip
that, because the lead got off more to the south than
it should have done, much more of it must lie in the
co.’s lease. This geography isn’t clear, but Chair-
man Dodd will smooth out the doubts when he gets
on the floor. Prying folk who want to know when
the puddlers will go round can be told that the New
Year is likely to arrive first.
* * * *
Great Poseidon, Tarnagulla (Vic.), has
seven directors, on whom it splashes £lO for a
half-year s work. Just now the co., in addition to
freezing the Board, is freezing up a shaft in slippery .
ground. To do this the co. has rung in a circle of
bores down to 203 ft., with a wall of ice 2ft. thick
round soine of the bores. To fill in time, a scheme
to hitch up £lO,OOO on the enterprise without call-
ing for a penny from shareholders is under way.
Should the lucky seven on the Board thaw out so
much cash from financiers just now, they ought to
be switched on to the State Treasurers, who will be
lots of help of that sort presently.
Hansel Mundy, Bendigo, is the phoenix
that is to rise out of the ashes of the Great Chaffinch,
of smelly W.A. fame, and it starts with a big shove-
off. The show has gone to Adelaide with the good
word of the Bendigo mine managers’ and mine
owners associations, and with Geology Dunn’s re-
commendation that it should be given a £ for £
subsidy. Premier Watt’s patter that his Govern-
ment intends to give generous help to mining can
now be tested, for he has a chance of getting more
good Adelaide Oof-birds on to the side-lines at Ben-
'J'K° if h,e isn’t doing the side-step, as is his wont.
The ,co: has about £BOOO td poke about with for
saddle refefs, so it isn’t of the Weary Willie type
that generally goeth to the Mines Dept, for aid. The
Bulletin’s idea is that the co. has more chance to
get soys, out of the Carshalton reef, for which it is
going in the crosscut, than gold dust out of Billie
Watt’s pouch or Peter Mcßride’s big pockets.
* * * *
The Hope menagerie at Beaufort (Vic.)
is almost sure to be yelping for maternity bonuses
m the shape of calls in the early future. The North-
ern Hope has probably the best points. There are
34,000 shares in this show, 24,000 of which are
averred to have been subscribed for at ss. The co-
operators, having struggled along for six years or so,
succumbed to an offer of £5200 cash and a slice of
the surrounding landscape which the company pro-
moters modestly valued at £5OO. The little claim
thus became a big one, and, mirabile dictu, the
original owners were tempted to exercise an option
over something like £6OOO worth of shares (paper
value). Brokerage accounts for £3OO, and the co.
thus sets out on its weary way with nothing to credit
but a more or less incredible story about the amount
of ground, worth 3oz. per fathom, which the co-
operators are alleged to have cut up ahead of their
washdirt faces. The last return of 150 oz: may. with
others in the bag, help matters a little, Which pro-
bably accounts for the market Value of the con-
cern ranging well over £13,000. But if, as is Whis-
pered, a new shaft and new equipment are lit pros-
pect, nasty little bits of paper are certain, ere long,
to be handed round.
* * * *
Mount Oxide’s plans appear to have been
completely changed. Fawcett, Who inspected it for
flotation purposes, was against the promoters’ idea to
rush into reverb-smelting; but in view of the tall
copper market and the financial necessities of the co.,
he withdrew his active opposition. Seemingly, manager
Gerard Williams, when he had had a look at things,
decided that he couldn’t extract ore and develop the
mine simultaneously, and like a wise manager With
a future to think of, he plumped for development.
The reverbs, will not, therefore, be gone on with.
Instead, a shaft will be sunk to connect With the
adit workings—it is already down a few feet—-and
the ore broken as opening-up proceeds Will be
stacked. Meantime efforts will be made to find
pyrites on the mine, Williams having an idea that
they exist under the big blow. If he finds them he
will have a cheap smelting proposition in spite of
the big haul from the head of the Cloncurry line.
It will probably take about six months to do the
development work sketched out.
* * * *
The Tyrconnel, on the Hodgkinson (Q.),
was worked successfully in the ’7o’s by a co-operative
party, who made a few thousands per man. Since
then the reef has been worked by a miner named
Keating, who took out many good crushings, and
finally sold out to the present co. A new shaft has
been sunk and what is apparently a new reef, 12in.
thick, has been cut at a depth of 118 ft., prospecting
30dwt. A battery has been purchased from Charters
Towers, and the erection of this plant, together with
progressive development work, will require a few
calls. It is to be hoped that the new venture will kill
the old notion that the Hodgkinson is a shallow reef-
ing field.
* * * *
St. Mungo, Cloncurry (Q.). is paying 6d.
dividends out of shipments of 23 p.d. Ore. Last year
it did very well even with the red metal under £6O
per ton. In six months 600 tons ore, containing 150
tons copper, were sent away, which enabled the
directors to pay six dividends of 6d. on the 10,000
shares. Favored by higher prices and cheaper trans-
port, the 23 p.c. ore now being shipped is returning
much larger profits, so, although there are four times
as many shares, dividends are being continued at the
old rate. Still the conditions are highly speculative,
and the chance of locating another rich horizontal
deposit in No. 3 level at the moment isn’t dazzling.
The north drive is in 63ft., with a 9in. vein of ore
on the footwall. The south end is in 72ft. in dis-
turbed country, nearly under a rich deposit in No. 2
level.
* * * *
Cloncurry (Q. / is making the most of the
copper boom. During September, only 10,183 tons
were smelted, yet the output of blister rose to 1346
tons, containing 8860 oz. of silver and 13860 z. gold.
An accumulated stock of matte helped the return.
Bather oddly, large quantities of ore continue to be
shipped south from mines in close proximity to the
local smelters. During September, 321 tons, averag-
ing 24 p.c., were shipped. A large proportion of
this ore came from the St. Mungo, which' loads the
camel teams 25 miles from the Duchess railway, and
sends its ore 600 miles to Townsville, on the coast,
and then to Port Kembla (N.S.W.). In spite of this
handicap it is paying dividends. Still, the moderate
prices at which options are being acquired rather
discounts the glossy descriptions of new shows. A
surface squib isn’t a mine.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, have
had a big fall. There are 150,000 shares, so a drop
of Bs. (from 30s. to 225.) amounts to £60,000, if
you count in the lot. It is the same old capricious
mine, whose prospects in the bottom level, 2609 ft.
from the surface, are not what some sanguine share-
holders expected. The reef is larger, but much of it
is lightly mineralised and low grade. Charters Towers
has been taught by all its deep mines—notably
Mills’ United, New Brilliant Freehold, Pfeiffers and
Brilliant Extended, that the deep shoots of mineralised
stone are tricky. Brilliant Block hasn’t met with the
Deeps reef after crosscutting more than 710 ft., which
is a long distance past the estimate. Brilliant P.C.,
with 260,000 shares, is a gamble; prospects below
the 1596 ft. level are irregular. For nine months the
Stockholm crushed 5669 tons for £24,166, so the
co. derives a good profit from that source.
The North Australian Exploration, Ltd.,
an option-hunting concern that has in its basket the
Mount Lindsay, Mount Idster and two or three leases
north of the Mount Oxide, considers that the first-
named is sufficiently ripe to entice the public to have
a bite.
* * * *
Oaks (N.Q.) has decided to crush stone
for the public, thus coming into line with most
Queensland mills. The habit of giving a hand to
outside shows —and incidentally making a hit in the
process—is growing; even Mount Morgan encourages
the idea nowadays.
The Etheridge (Q.) still gleans its best
results from the Havelock, the richer stone coming
from the west drives, though not much is now left
in that part. Other levels can show up to 20in. of
reef, with values varying between 3dwt. and 2oz.
Values are slightly iess in the Nil Desperandum,
though the stone is a fair width. The Queenslander,
the co.’s third hope, is very limp. It has the reef,
but the reef hasn’t the metals, so it is being spelled,
presumably, to see if the riches will grow. Dur-
ing September the co. treated 1653 tons for 1006 oz.
gold, 887 oz. silver and seven tons copper.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) treated 9280 tons during
September for 30170 z., worth £10,523, hut hatched
no dividend beyond one from liquidation. Still,
Gympie feels it is in for a better time. Following
on the reconstruction of the Great Northern, the East
Oriental and Glanmire has re-shuffled its capital.
Also, a new co., the Gympie Deep Lead, will test the
Inglewood lode on the south side of the river; and
Monldand and Inglewood (80,000 shares) will tickle
the third bed of slate. This third bed is more to
Gympie than Roosevelt’s third term by long chalks,
and the Government is fairly liberal with its subsidy.
The Callide coal country, behind Glad-
stone (Q.), still dangles its claims before the public.
The combustible was discovered on Callide Creek
(which trickles into the Dawson River) back in
1891; so the country is taking a mighty long time
to get a move on. Brisbane Harbor Board recently
tried a five-ton sample, and said these two things
about it: (1) Burned freely without caking. (2)
Calorific value very low. The “best British coal’’
will evaporate 101 b. of water per pound of coal.
Callide managed only 511 b. Still, even if the stuff
was much better, nothing can be done without a
railway, and the chance of getting one of those loan-
built contraptions in Bananaland at present isn’t
bright.
Spec.: Can’t recall anything that looks
distinctly recommendable at present. .. .J.G.D.: (1)
Latest sale, 275. 6d. (2) The co. needs money,
having big contracts to carry out. (3) Doubt the
wisdom of keeping all eggs in that basket. The co.
has no exclusive rights to the manufacture of its
goods.
* * * *
The Australian-owned Tongkah Com-
pound (Siam) puts up a good dredging record for
the six months ending September 31:—
Tin, Average lb
Cub. yds. tons. per cub. yd.
April ~ 58,000 32 1.23
May ~ 58,250 45 1.73
June ~ 00,500 36 1.33
July . . 61,000 62 1.90
August , , 68,000 70 2.30
September 62,750 67 2.39
368,500 302 1.83
During the half-year only 1220 cub. yards of dirt
Were dredged to produce a ton of tin oxide, so that
Whenever the price soared to £122 per ton the
average was, roughly, 2s. per yard. For the pre-
vious half-year working costs Were 5.83 d. Charging
now an average of 6d., it Will be seen that a ton of
oxide can be produced for £3O 10s., or one-fourth
of its value when it is selling at £122. If only the
co, had a few square miles like it!
* * * *
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied,' and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Leinpriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
A SAFE INVESTMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Ben went down to see the Cup
We thought him an heroic chap
From lvattydid and Goslin up
To Sandyrise and Squatter’s Gap.
For at the places mentioned they
Were never much inclined to stray,
And native youths had legends dree
Of Melbourne’s gay iniquitee.
Ben held one hundred pounds in gold,
The savings of a dozen years,
And most impetuous and bold
Was Benjamin—he knew no fears.
He came before the week was done,
And ere the Melbourne Cup was run.
He said: “I’d stayed quite long enough,
For I’ve invested all my stuff.
“I met a gent, in Bourke-street there,
The nicest bloke I ever see.
He took me almost everywhere,
And got so awful fond of me,
He said he’d put my cash away
Within his uncle’s bank to stay.
His uncle is a kind old gent.
Who pays you eighty-five per cent.
“So I came home. Each quarter, chaps,
I’ll get my cheque for twenty-odd.”
Then Andy Andrews murmured, “P’r’aps”!
And gave his cunning head a nod.
“That bloke’s a spieler I’ll be sworn.”
Ben answered him with pleasant scorn:—
“Trust me! I knew jist what to do—
I’ve got the beggar’s I O U.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin§
George V
CHAMPAGNE'
mi
Ell
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
World
BRAND
hfd
Renowned
STUHB
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins and glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
BUCHANAN’S
BlacK ®. White
wh
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black <& White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 28, 1912.
My Dear Arinl —
The coming of Governor Strickland and
his fair-haired Lady Edeline, in place of the
departing Chelmsfords, ought to be a popular
event. They have been liked in Tassy’s
strawberried isle and in their later vice-
regal billet in Perth. Sir Gerald Strick-
land is a Maltese, and probably inherits his
Roman Catholic faith from both parents.
The Strickland family, from whom he gets
the beautiful old North of England Castle
Sizergh, with Its surrounding soil, is one of
the show places that teem with historic
ghosts and other proofs of its antiquity.
The first Strickland ancestor _of note
jumped ashore off the craft of William the
Conqueror, and is reported to have been so
hurried that he fell heavily upon the earth.
In trying to break his fall, he is alleged to
have seized a small portion of England with
both hands, and turned the incident into a
lucky omen.
Agnes Strickland, who compiled the
“Lives of the Queens of England” (some of
these dames had as many lives as a hun-
dred cats), wasn’t around this planet when
her forefather snatched two fists full of
earth. But I think she remarks, somewhere,
that the ancestral comment was the early
Norman equivalent to “I seize.” It’s grown
into a habit, and the Stricklands have ever
since been lawfully seizing (Sizergh
is a corruption of the French word “saisir ’)
things worth having. Lady Edeline, with a
large reputation for kindly ways, was one
of the best assets the present Strickland
seized from the de la Warr household.
Death has suddenly snatched one of this
city’s most useful women. The invaluable
Hannah McLeod, matron of the Crown-
street Hospital, after a short struggle with
pneumonia, passed across the Borderland
last week. Miss McLeod was the first
matron of the hospital when it began its
work in a small cottage in Hay-street under
the organising push of the late Dr. Leo
Neill. This was in, or about, 1893. The
spirit of a Florence Nightingale burnt like
a vital spark in the slight, delicate frame of
this noble woman, who took hold of any-
thing and everything that had to be done
with a courage that never knew defeat. In
time of stress, when the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital was having a breathless
fight with its finances, influenza laid the
staff on the flat of its back. Hannah
McLeod then, as often before and since,
flung her slim person into the breach. I
happened to go over the hospital at one of
these crises when she was matron, head
nurse, cook, ward’s maid, general rouse-
about and half a dozen other things besides.
She was perpetually being ordered away for
rest and change, and consistently stuck to
her post. She wanted to die in harness, and
the Man with the Scythe gave her a short
cut.
The final big social quack of H.M.S.
Drake occurred at Garden Island, when the
indispensable sail-loft was turned into a
gorgeous dancing shed. Before shaking his
fin in these waters for the last time, the
Drake will make the usual Cup-time trip
to Port Phillip.
The Women Painters’ Show, in the R. A.
Society’s rooms, is a step or two above last
year’s. But its hanging committee ought to
have pushed out about 10 per cent, of the
exhibits, and severely cautioned 14 per cent,
of the exhibitors not to waste their pin
money on picture frames. Florence Rodway
is so far ahead of all other competitors that
her extensive performances in portraits are
the event of the show —notably a charming
head of little Portia Holman, a profile (Mrs.
Arthur Styan) and the live likeness of black-
haired “Linnett.” Ethel Stephens is another
exhibitor whose touch is sure in portraiture.
A head —the original is on the shoulders of
Charles Stephens, B.E.—is a clever effort.
Annie C. Creagh’s “Geraniums,” and Ber-
nice Edwell’s bold group of the same scarlet
blooms, are, with Edith Cusack’s “Golden
Wattle,” about the best examples of still
life in the show.
Clarice Sandford, a Sydney girl, formerly
a pupil of Julian Ashton, and recently a stu-
dent in Paris, has come back with a strong
leaning towards Dutch interiors. The influ-
ence of the dyke country is evident in her
good brush-work at the Women Painters’
Exhibition. Nelle Rodd is strong and orig-
inal in her illustrations to fit the fairy thistle-
down literature of “Hansel and Gretel.”
The kaleidoscopic expressions of the women
who faced the Central Summons Court,
for wearing prolonged hatpins on Eight
Hour Day, must have given the Roberts on
duty a new sensation. About 100 convic-
tions, each conviction with a different brand
of millinery on its head, cost ss. apiece in
fine, with 6s. for Costs. The deadly pin
that stabs the air—or the adjacent citizen —
with four or five inches of pointed steel, has :
no friends, and the recent run-in ought to
cure it of some of its ferocious habits. <
The Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society
emerged from its silence of many months, to
greet the listening ear in the Town Hall, the
other night. Its new conductor is that elec-
tric spark, Alfred Hill, who could galvanise
a dead concertina into life. Mrs. Alex.
Gordon was a soloist of charm. Her clear
pure notes run like a silver thread through an
orchestral accompaniment.: >.
The dead financial corpse of the casual
big concert which scatters paper over ihe
reserved seats and leaves the Town Hall
echoes almost unmolested in its gallery
chairs has been buried more than once dur-
ing the past two months. But it’s an obsti-
nate kind of defunct animal, and insists on
coming back to have another funeral. Ex-
cepting as regards our orchestral and other
large and healthy musical bodies, the concert
with a heavy list of exes, is so dead at this
time of year that it ought to remain decently
underground till next April. The small
species, however, is full of vitality, and pays
a satisfactory dividend. Hilda Aiken netted
£7O by her complimentary concert the other
night, and then added another £lO cheque,
the gift of an anonymous friend.
Student Essie O’Neill, of Narrabri, had a
little concert in St. James’s Hall the other
night. It was an exhilarating instance of
the tabloid snack of music, which ends before
the arrival of the first yawn. The slender
girl pianist, who is a pupil of De Beaupuis,
promises to climb to considerable heights in
technique, later on.
The desire of the average Australian to
assimilate harmony grows so fast that it
annihilates distance. From remote villages
in the far north-west of this State, youthful
maidens travel 300 miles to Sydney for one
lesson a week—vocal or instrumental. A
mere 200-mile journey seldom stands between
the parental purse and the maiden’s desires,
for the Short of Trucks Department has a
soft spot in its adamant body for the flap-
per and her music roll.
Eva Mylott departed for ’Murlca in the
Makura. She took a youthful relative,
Hilda Aiken, with her, as a reliable hand
on the concert piano. Scores of friends
trooped down to hurl flowers and farewells
at the Australian duet. Denison Miller,
over-lord of the Commonwealth Bank, headed
one contingent of good-byes. Another damp-
handkerchief brigade went across the gang-
way behind Harbor Trust Lance. Frank
Coffee was also in the thick of the farewell
scrimmage.
A promising contralto voice that still
lurks in a Williamson musical comedy
chorus is the property of the tall, good-look-
ing Eileen Shettle. She’s a Sydney girl and
a pupil of Miss Ada Baker. Eileen recently
derived much mental stimulant from the
encouraging remarks of Kirkby Lunn, who
followed her voice from lower E Flat to a
sky-scraping G. The girl is understudying
Sybil Arundale in “Dorothy.”
Miss Hermione Flatau, a Sydney girl, who
went to the Great Fog about six years ago,
is said to be shaking a brilliant pen on the
press of Bull’s huge ant-heap. She plunged
into the Harmsworth amalgamation for a
start, q,nd took up the eye-aching billet of
reading MSS. with such success that she was
soon moved up to edit Home Gnats, or
some such paper. In 18 months Hermione
was editing no less than seven of these
amalgamated Mothers’ Joys, and controlling
a staff of 60 pens. In 1910 she resigned so
as to get her breath and investigate the in-
nards of Spain and France. Now hers is
reckoned one of the smartest nibs on the
Daily Express. Ink runs in the Flatau
family, and a brother, Theodore, has just
published a novel with the alluring title,
“The Soul of a Dancer,” which has been
well reviewed. As a matter of fact, the Aus-
tralian writers who fail on the other side
seem to be about 1 per cent, of those who
try for a place.
t The bazaar and tug-of-horses, in aid of the
Veterans’ Home, at Bare Island, was opened
by the Admirable King-Hall the other after-
noon. The large and breezy grass-patch in-
side the walls of Victoria Barracks was the
place. A rowdy wind dashed through the
floral paper decorations that dangled outside
the tented sale of socks, braces, etc., but
failed to remove a small consignment of neat
grey ties, the property of Prof. David. Mrs.
Monk was one of the authorities in charge of
the male gear department. The Barracks
dames had a flower stall of special beauty,
and refrained from asking more than 50 per
cent, profit on potted vegetation. Mrs.
Christian, in a white lingerie gown, sold cut
flowers, under the shade of an alluring black
hat. A small stack of wheat, chaff, or dried
grass made an attractive excuse for Mrs.
G, L. Goodman’s sale of sweets. Miss Mab
Fotheringhame, in a white gown, top-dressed
with a periwinkle-blue paper hat, was one of
the assisting maidens. Mrs. Rutter was hon.
organising secretary.
The School of Industry’s charity show
will have folded up its fancy dress and its
last stick of grease paint before this meets
your eye. Thea Proctor, the recently re-
turned artist, is going to be the Madame
Pompadour of one tableau. Seats were sold
out at a fairly early crisis in the booking,
but standing room was probably to let till
the curtain went up on the National An-
them and the vice-regal Presence.
The handsome Orient craft Orvieto blazed
with electric bulbs the other night, when a
few hundred citizens rushed its gangways.
The entertainment for man and maid was
profusely trimmed with bunting. Captain
Baynham and the David Andersons were in
charge of the welcome. An exuberant
outburst of loyal bunting remarked in large
letters, “God bless our King, George V.”
Possibly it meant God save the King from
having his alleged conversation with a
globe-trotting Australian Paxtonised in the
morning papers. George Rex, with both
eyes on the Balkan blaze, will probably get
alongside a large D —n if he reads his
alleged comments on the Sydney Government
House storm in a billycan.
The large House of Burdekin in Mac-
quarie-street has • recently welcomed two
sons and their belongings, and a daughter,
the pretty Mrs. Alec Hay with the tall lily-
stem figure. Alec Hay came back from
England with his wife, and extensive din-
ners and other outbreaks of festivity have
tripped across the swift Procession of the
Hours. Mrs. Burdekin, who used to lead
this town in the matter of chiffons, hasn’t
been well enough of late to show Society
the Right way to wear its Paris hats.
Stripes, in mouse-color, or in brewery
shades of pale-ale, are the extremity of
style for cotton frocks of the heavier build.
Mrs. Trefffi, who is large and handsome, was
striped like a white-and-tan zebra the other
afternoon. As I meant to remark, in italics,
the other week, the Kelso King waistcoat, of
white and mouse stripes, may also be re-
garded as the Correct Thing in male armor,
A Congregational Union in this city is
falling heavily, with averted eyes, on freaks
of fashion. Two parsons’ wives have
plunged a stiletto to the hilt into the bare
necks and transparent ankles of the prevail-
ing modes, as they are met on the Block.
One lady, with the awe-inspiring name of
Mrs. Absalom Deans, shudders as she sits
next to Mrs. Smart Set’s dead soul and visi-
ble leg in the flurried tram. She is not
without hope, however, that the female form
will again retire behind the becoming hedge
of early Victorian drapery. The other dame,
Mrs. Campbell (Ivillara), shows less quar-
ter, and fiercely smites Mrs. Satan hip and
thigh for inciting the ordinary man to
smash the Commandments on the nearest
kerbstone when he sees a pair of "ilk stock-
ings on ahead. A new by-law, ordering the
male person to wear winkers as he walks
along the paved way that leads to Miss
Gomorrah’s French heels, might stave off
the downfall of Man till fashion changes.
Star-gazer Mary Proctor passed hurriedly
through this town last week on her way to
Bananaland. Brisbane, after a look-in at
Toowoomba, is her objective. Later on, she
will stalk the Milky Way from India’s col-
ored strand; and after that she will telescope
the tails of young comets (if any happen
to be playing about at the time) from
Egypt’s ancient sandheap.
Mr. Bob Fotheringham, formerly of Dune-
din (M.L.) and of recent years something-
in S’African mines, breaks up his stay in
Sydney after a longer spell from the Rand
than he originally meant to snatch. He has
been converted to a solid belief that Aus-
tralia is the best country to live in. After
a glimpse of the Cup that overflows on
Flemington turf, Mr. Fotheringham treks to
the Northern Territory to pick up statistics
and other thrilling literature re a residential
ranch in that sunny clime. Later, he’ll pack
up his S’African kit, his mining scrip and
his knowledge of Zulu and Hottentot eti-
quette and return to this continent.
The wealthy widow Macarthy, who re-
cently arrived here from Wellington (M.L.),
is a nice-looking dame on the sunny s,de of
40 or so. Her husband’s will must have
been a formidable affair, for it had to be
handled with care by a special Act of Par-
liament. The late T. G. Macarthy left about
£BOO,OOO. Half of this money was bequeathed
to “public institutions” in Wellington under
the control of the local Mayor, the Premier,
the M.L. Governor and the R.C. Archbishop.
Presumably the Act of Parliament had to
decide what “public institutions” boiled
down to when the almsgiving was getting
busy, and possibly it arranged whether a
Lieut.-Governor could take a quarter-share
of the responsibility while a full-fledged Im-
portation was hurrying from London to the
Dominion throne-chair. Mrs. Macarthy
keeps the wolf from the door with a mere
£400,000, which is said to be free from any
straws for the law to split.
Mr. F. W. Webb, one of the ancient orna-
ments of the N.S.W. Parliament, wherein he
served for many years as Clerk (with a capi-
tal C), still lives at Balgowlah, on the out-
skirts of Manly, where he cultivates wild
flowers, contentment (on a substantial pen-
sion) and other virtues. Lately the cour-
teous old gentleman has had a worse diffi-
culty than Mr. Speaker Willis (whom
he never knew) to deal with. An eye
trouble has been pestering him for two
years—pestering him so much that, finally,
he decided to take expert advice and pluck
it out. The operation—completely success-
ful--was performed by Dr. Odillo Maher,
who had years ago been in a very serious but
dissimilar trouble with his patient. They
were in the same carriage in the disastrous
Redfern smash, the worst in N. S. Wales
railway history.
Frank Connor, cattleman and M.L.C., of
Westralia, is on the way to Manila by the
Kumano Maru. When Mr. Connor isn’t fol-
lowing horns and hoofs as a member of the
well-known Beef-Baron firm of Connor, Do-
herty and Durack, he’s an M.L.C. in the
Western State, where they elect their Upper
House. He was for 14 months in the Philip-
pines recently-, on the trail of Meat, and got
back to find his chair in Parliament declared
vacant. However, the damage wasn’t seri-
ous, for the genial, white-haired Irishman
was promptly re-elected. A man who likes
him says that he would have made a diplo-
matic archbishop.
The Crown Princess Cecile of Germany
recently extended the finger of welcome to
the Conrans, of Queensland, and gave serene
highnesses and duchesses of cerulean-blue
blood a chance of seeing our Australian
nobility in the flesh. The Conran girls are
bright and capable damsels, able to do any-
thing worth doing on the ice—perhaps be-
cause there’s so much ice lying about in
Queensland. They caught the Royal eye
when skating at St. Moritz. While paying
their fortnight’s visit to the home of Cecile
they met tnat lady’s terrible father-in-law,
William of Divine Right. I hear they re-
tained their presence of mind and treated
the August Person to sporty remarks, which
were well received. As the Conrans are very
good to look at and up to the last minute in
clothes, German dames of great social ton-
nage may sub-edit their former belief' that
Australian belles are pale-black beauties
mostly garbed in mission calico.
An overseas paper named Modern Soci-
ety (September 21) mentions that “Mrs.
Richard McCreery is paying country visits.’’
This lady, it appears, was once upon a time
Miss May' Cuyler, daughter of an officer in
the U.S. army. In 18513 she married (says
Modern Society) ‘ Sir Philip Grey-Eger-
ton, of Oulton Park, Cheshire.” The same
authority remarks in a soft whisper: “This
marriage w T as, however, dissolved, and after
a year or two she re-married with a com-
patriot of her own, Mr. Richard McCreery.”
If this lady, who is described as brilliantly
pretty and “chic” (no smart woman seems
to allow herself anything but occasional
plain moments while she is under 60 years
of age), and the present Lady Grey-Egerton
(who is staying at the Australia), and the
Rupert Clarke dame of to-day, were to sud-
denly exchange compliments about each
other’s personal appearance, wouldn’t you
like to be behind the door?
Young Steffani McDonald, who hurried
home from London in consequence of his late
father’s serious illness, is engaged to Miss
Mollie Barry, a daughter of solicitor Barry,
of this town. He is one of a small family
of two sons, and inherits his love of music
from his mother, formerly the brilliant song-
bird, Kate Slattery. She merged her gifts
in matrimony; but Steff will probably stick
to his warble. The estate of the late W. A.
McDonald was recently proved at £21,000
or thereabouts.
The Ramacciotti family is at present
camped at the Wentworth Hotel.
Captain Whyte, of the M;D. Staff Corps,
is at present in N.S.W., sampling the duties
of exchange officer at Newcastle, or there-
abouts. Before laying down the quill for a
khaki coat, he was a clerk in Auckland
G.P.O.
General Godley, who commands the M.L.
fighting man, is sniffing gunpowder, etc., in
this State on a holiday jaunt. He is having
a scamper through Duntroon College, and has
cast an eye around our small-arms factory
and other efforts in Defence. Godley gave
the local press two causes to gnash their
nibs. He was hard to locate, having stowed
himself away at Admiralty House, under the
hospitable King-Hall shingles. And, when
found, he observed an aggravating silence
concerning local war-lords and other com-
bustible subjects.
Concerning the housing riddle in this con-
gested settlement, Dr. Gertrude Halley has
been stamping after the germ in the cheap
boarding-house, with its stale air and un-
clean drapery. Dr. Gertrude is a bright-
eyed optimist, in the Public Instruction De-
partment, with a kind of roving commission
to inquire into the cause of adenoids, tooth-
ache, weak eyes, and other crimes that
threaten the State school infant’s usefulness.
Students at the Sydney Teachers’ Training
College, who have to board at (say) £5O a
year, are alleged to swallow more microbes
than they can digest. Prices are so uppish
that the mutton chop and the green herb
are climbing beyond the reach of the junior
brain-faggers in the department. Dr. Halley
therefore suggests a hostel for women stu-
dents. While the necessary company or
capital is searching for its own address, and
the right piece of land is being chased to a
reasonable figure, a camp might be a healthy
alternative to the fly-bitten “apartments to
let” placard. There are various tented
homes on the shores of Sydney’s blue water-
front, and a houseboat or two, where office
men do themselves well under the care of a
cook. It usually works out at a more moder-
ate price than the cheap-and-dirty hash-
palace, which would be dear at nothing a
week.
The N.S.W. Yorkshire Society will buzz
about its annual dinner before this meets
your eye. It is so full of the enthusiasm of
Yorkshire pudding that its rally round the
Sheffield Choir, last year, incited the York-
shire voice in other States to lift up its an-
nual remarks with fresh vigor and in greater
numbers. Baumann’s cafe is the place for
this year’s Sydney meeting, which revolves
round its official legend, “Tak hod an’ sup
lad.” President William Atkins glows with
zeal at this annual spree, and hon. sec.
John Stead is a staunch accomplice. Mr.
G. W. ILadfield, who pursues Art as a recrea-
tion, is another prominent member of the
local society.
The short, black, silk coat, with two long
tails falling over the back view of the lady
in charge, is one of this season’s revivals.
It hasn’t been a violent success on lingerie
frocks. Somehow, it’s too reminiscent of
half of one costume hurriedly supplying a
shortage caused by the temporary absence
of the top half of another frock.
Yours on the lee side of the Cup>
VANDORIAN.


K\V.\s
S&V- *
mmmz
£<%
lis^sitlSf vSvmm
IBIS
stass®
■S3
&&&•:■■
Mk
m
sV?«'&Tvf;
a'::.
/
i>> -i
«*aß»«S<SSS®933S^^i
ex^,^x^
m
\s
& *1
l
It
MI
tt 1
||
if M% $ Wi
5.33
1
•b*..
tm
■ft,
'N
Wm-M&fc V. v.t
i
mmem
IS
MU
... -
l/J
A. 8%, ' "...
trv
%m
o; /
fm&f
lmm
•■B
Ilf
i§§fi
H
1 .
Mi
«sp
MMS
Ml
Bft
■H
3S§s**s&g|>
>%i
we
C :
,•»,' i<3
-ft< r ; .
US
fmn
s<s>7
MH
-ft
\&&0
■3MA
Zrx*
3*53
Bft
IP
% M
'% v?
W
.ipj.'
3S-1
M
s>>wwsii@B^
Wm
-. ■
>SSWSfS»*^jgg!%«
M
ffi
?ir*r-{ttA?
.’.-Vi
hSv.
,3®?
ii
«£?
\ .’
iff-;
r3££s
SB
✓s,:;
i®*
t : '
/ mm, T
; kK
. ' ■—»
'-sais
... . vJ S-&(fc , %»• ** ' c ¥3sv<--"L
v»~_ ... •.' v>i J^’ tr -rv.. _
K'i
r.i* vi
»A *
avfi%
35*5! ;<
'fi 'r
»&x;Ty
SV--
*i'S 5
\pvV:
S&v,
ill's
■;• 5
i.
Wk/U g 'K. .«,
’M// /S.ffvjK f. .
4y%
.a,-
®vw
u \
.tx%.
'V%X
:\>
rts
few
Kvi
m v»tl
\ #P
w&SkV*,
Wi
'' ; 'a;.
S, At. ,";. v < V
sfe
' ! %33
'i ,?
N V,
S?3i
■
, --
m
um
'“>■
a»
ri
i? 3. M vPMiXM, "1
am
K&SS
V--'
l
>j
• '
ft
ft.
ft
i^Si
m
''.--ft
<.' ‘
■a ■*
r<y
m
X-ft:
w£
’,<■
nm
m
■-■
sfsSfsf
ft:-:-
wm&
n
m.
H ' :- ft
*STB
J'Vi 3iiB
n& : >'
Boot Polish
©
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Goes to sleep,
As others do.
D reams he sees
The Melbourne Cup—
“COBRA” winning-—-
I o
- Chunder up„ -
Shining like
A Victor’s shield,
“ COBRA ” leads
The thund’ring field
,
Past the packed
And cheering host,
Up the straight
And past the post.
Chunder with
A beaming face,,
Wakes and cries,
“ I’ve won the race !
“ Of all dreams
That was a eem !
O
Get my boots
And ‘COBRA’ them!


Choose the Summer Suit Wisely.
Farmer’s Two-piece Suits
Ensure Coolness and Comfort.
On a hot summer’s day how comfortable a man looks and
feels in a light, cool suit! And to all summer-suit seekers who
desire to be cool as well as stylish, Farmer’s Made-to-Measure Suits
will prove right welcome. They consist of coat and trousers, and
can be made in any of the following tropical suitings. Moreover,
they possess that distinctive style which distinguishes all Farmer’s
tailoring, and ever yields satisfaction.
Herewith we quote prices for making-to-measure -
Irish Linen and Crashes:—•
Prices 37/6, 39/6, 43/6 and 48/6.
Tropical cloths in Navy, Fawns, Plain Greys, and Stripe
designs:—
Prices 55/-, 67/6 and 72/6.
Other Summer Suitings include Silks, Indian Hand-woven
Silk, and White Cr'cketing Flannels:—
Prices range from 63/6 to 67/6.
Farmer's Pay Carriage on Men’s Apparel to any part of Australia.
FARMER’S—SYDNEY.
.
fit
DUNLOP
CARDEN
HOSE
Hr
m
Always
ask for...
DUNLOP
HOSE.
The Price is
Reasonable—
whilst its....
Quality and
Construction
ensures you
years of
Service and
Satisfaction.
Obtainable Leading
Stores but accept
only “Dunlop” brands
JS M
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
hfd
hfd
hfd
hfd
hfd
DUNLOP
Tennis
Dalis...
in New Zealand..
The New Zealand Timet Says:—
“We note that the Auckland \
Lawn Tennis Association has
adopted the “Dunlop” ball as
its official ball for the coming
season. This choice was made
after exhaustive trials and tests
of every description, including
dissection, so it is evident that
the Aucklanders are satisfied
that they have found ‘the’ ball.”
* * *
MANY THOUSANDS of players
have made the same choice
experience having proved that
for Quality, Play and Wear, the
“Dunlop” Ball is easily the best
obtainable. Have you tried them ?
All leading Depots.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. All States & N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 28, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Between 10 and 11 o’clock on Saturday
morning, a vast groan like the complaining
sound made by the first revolution ot a new
world went up to the streaming heavens.
Henley was being rained on, and rendered
utterly unfit for light raiment and open boat-
ing ! The depressed shop-damsel moaned,
“Oh, it’s cruel! It hurts!” Hundreds of
females wept or stormed over their piles of
linen and muslin cushions and baskets of
paper flowers; and thousands who, in
accordance with the most troublesome tradi-
tions of the sex, had made their plans 18
weeks in advance, pressed their noses to
window-panes and made up their minds to
be miserable for at least three weeks. But,
fortunately, the sun looked out before it was
too late, and set to work like a heavenly
charwoman to mop up the moisture, dry the
bunting, and generally clean up the river-
scape and approaches. The job was well
and truly done in good time, and the popu-
lace rejoiced exceedingly and hurried on its
most summery garments. White hats were
so numerous that the bridge and banks of
the river looked like acres of white roses.
Henley is certainly very successful as a
spectacle. Viewed from a commanding roof-
top or spire, it looks like a pilgrimage in a
hot country—Thousands of light-clad humans
pressing onward in a slow, deliberate stream
over the bridge, down the slopes, through the
rose gardens, and so to the banks. But to
the perspiring pilgrim the business is merely
a blind stumbling along thoroughfares,
where he can see nothing, to the packed
riverside where there is nothing to do but
stroll until he feels tired enough to lie down
and die in the gutter. But there is no
gutter available; and if he stretched himself
out on the ground, four people would imme-
diately use his prostrate body as a grand-
stand. So he keeps horizontal and pers-
pires, and wonders why he paid money to be
allowed to do it. The nicely-dressed drifters
who do not possess cards for the houseboats
wander endlessly and aimlessly about at a
cost of 2s. 6d. per head, or Is. 3d. per sore
foot, and try to force an interest in the
decorated coal barges and other polite shams
that block out the view of the river. The
shilling rabble on the other bank at least
have the excitement of hanging precariously
in clusters to the steep slope above the
murky waters of the overworked Yarra.
Also, the ice-cream man is available, and
they get occasional glimpses of the racing
craft missing by a hair’s-breadth disastrous
bumps from rollicking boatloads of bank
clerks and softgoods young men.
Two houseboats dropped out of the line
this year. The Alexandra Club was prepar-
ing to make a suitably ponderous splash,
when the contributing members suddenly
had their cheques returned to them with a
polite intimation that there was nothing
loing. The wealthy Athenaeum Club, which
was remonstrated with at one time about
the way their mansion craft obscured the
view, also held aloof. “They did things well,
too,” murmured the Toorak girls pensively.
“And they never give a ball!” The Aus-
tralian Club flaunted blue roses, and the
Very, Best People looked down superciliously
from the anointed decks. The disgracefully
rich Fairbairns had an Arcadian spread of
food on their yellow-blossomed raft. Big-
john Forrest and his dame helped to make
the visitors feel that they had reached the
lap of luxury, and were far from the mad-
ding Labor party. Most of the local peerage
engaged tables in town for a quiet dinner
between the glare and crush of the afternoon
and the music and fireworks of the mysteri-
ous night.
Mr. Thomas, of the External Affairs, sent
out invitations to view the screening of the
Northern Territory pictures taken by the
Federal Government’s cino.-man, during the
recent Parliamentary visit. In response,
some 3000 people crowded along to West’s
Palace, and got a string of pleasant impres-
sions of a land flowing with water. Tall,
muscular aboriginals, who have not yet
acquired the fatal clothes habit, worked
energetically all the time the eye of the
camera was upon them, and the white-clad
white, men in charge looked fit enough for
anything. G.-G. Denman looked
fully at the country he had avoided
scrambling through in person; while Lady
Denman, with a wreath of flowers in her
hat, expressed an ardent desire to ride
through the smiling wilderness. Barttelot
and his handsome lady had their two boys
along; and some Parliamentarian’s baby
gurgled in its nurse’s arms close by. Mrs.
Thomas, in smart, tailored garments, sat
with her husband in the centre chairs along-
side the Pearces.
Governor Fuller’s birthday dance, last
veek, was hopped through in the large hall
at Stonington, whilst the enclosed verandah
was so wastefully illuminated with colored
lights that the usual frivolities of sitting-
out were beyond decent possibility. The
Denman lady, with all the staff in' attend-
ance, tooted over to the revel. She had a
garden of painted flowers on her white ninon
gown and lit herself up with manv twink-
ling diamonds. The Fuller lady, in misty
white draperies, wore her festival smile
and the family tiara skewered on to her
blonde locks. Auntie Phipps, in her favor-
ite blue, acted as assistant hostess. An inky
robe, with a sparkling top-dressing, set off
the Barttelot dame’s slim figure. The just-
returned Mrs. George Chirnside, with a
foreign address sewed on her dazzling rai-
ment, brought along daughter Audrey,
whose budding had been fixed for her own
frivol later on. Maddens, Kirkpatricks,
Caseys, Powers and Mackinnotis were well
to the fore, and among the ypunger set
Doris Cumming and a McArthur girl were
most in demand. The 70-odd present re-
presented but a portion of Toorak. A num-
ber of those who were not present have
since been busily engaged inventing ills to
account for their non-appearance.
G.-G. Denman’s polo team, with the hos-
tile assistance of the Melbourne horse-
hockey club will open the season at Koo-
yong, on Wednesday, November 6. Aide
Nutting and Military Secretary Quilter,
both keen enthusiasts, are working up the
interest of the Right People and hoping for
any number of dust clouds containing
motors. It seems an unnecessary waste of
energy under the distinguished circum-
stances ; the Right People would attend in
admiring hundreds merely to see the G.-G.
drown a cat. Polo prospects in Victoria are
bright. Tournaments are being planned for
the dull time that follows Christmas in the
Western District, and the Geebung Club is
getting excited. The grand climax is to be
an open tournament in Melbourne, during
the race week of March, 1913.
State Government House is rolling its
fine lawns and bagging the prime roses on
the terrace with an eye on November 4.
Vice-regal pasteboards are out for a garden
party on that date.
Captain “Char” Crespin, a society
warrior with the most lovely auburn curls
(I don’t mean that he fights with his curls),
has been appointed a Gentleman Help to one
of the Governors who have to do with this
State. It would save a lot of confusion if
the G.-G. could be called the Deputy Em-
peror or the Great Evicted.
Mrs. Davey, the departing Gaud
Mayoress, is gracefully yielding up the
centre place on the dais to her successor.
She is asking everybody of the slightest im-
portance to a reception, at the end of the
month, to meet Mrs. D. V. Hennessy, the
Gaudess of the near future—the Gaudess
Imminent, so to speak.
. A Cold. Country- ladies’ journal adver-
tises : “Pair late Queen Victoria’s stockings,
pink silk, ‘V.R.’ and crown interwoven ; 12
guineas.” One would not have suspected
the late Mrs. Victoria of pink hosiery. The
domestic or fireside virtues for which she
stood were so . often associated with deplor-
ably anaesthetic calf-encasings and elastic-
sided boots.
To-morrow (Friday) is the last day of
Blamire Young’s picture show at the Athe-
naeum Hall. The admirers of that auda-
cious man of talent should make the most
of it. He will soon go a-roaming, and long
years may pass ere he hangs another lot of
water-colors in the Melbourne that has been
so slow to get a “feeling” for his art.
When he returns in the dim future his
mannerisms will have changed some more,
no doubt. Blamire Young is nothing if not
unusual, and an inspirationist cannot rest
upon one oddity. Already his earlier works
are remembered for being very different from
his latest freaks in color and composition.
“The Camping Ground,” facing the door-
way, strikes one as a Blamired adaptation
of. the. Hans Heysen method. “The Dark
Hill” is a quite conventionalised suggestion
of the painter’s earlier unconventional style.
“Breaking Clouds” is beautiful in a way
that most people can understand, whilst
“Out of the Ivory Palaces,” is frankly
inexplicable to all and delightful to a few.
Not many of the 90 pictures have been sold
thus far. The Blamire Young scale of prices
has “gone up” a lot since his last exhibi-
tion, and the suspicion that anything he
hangs will be worth five times its present
catalogue price in the near future is not
yet strong enough to tempt adventurous
buyers. They are waiting for the evidence
of Time. When it comes, they will probably
lament their want of faith.
Walter Kirby gave a farewell At Home
at the Grand Hotel, with music of various
brands as refreshment-in-chief. Lady Bart-
telot, sporting a dream of a rose chiffon
gown, wandered in for an hour with Dick
Nevill, and joined in the applause that fol-
lowed the host’s singing of his Boheme item.
Toorak motored along to sit once more at
the feet of the tenor ere 'he used them to
rush away on. Mrs. Riddell Stanley caused
a sensation with her silk—a great-grand-
motherly quality of brocade that stood up
without feet of any kind and showed off its
pink and white roses. Mrs. Ross-Soden’s
diamonds lit up a black lace dress. Airs.
Hennessy had an ermine fur edge to her
black and white gown by way of emphasising
her husband’s elevation to the rabbit skin.
Last week, president Airs. G. R. Davidson
helped the Literary Circle of the Swastika
Club to take its attention off horse races
and society charities for one afternoon, and
improve its mind by worshipping Tennyson.
Herself read a paper in a cultured voice on
the dead and gone laureate among heaps of
lovely yellow roses. Lilian Reid and other
visitors carolled or recited Tennyson words
accompanied by music, after which the whole
improved company wandered in to the din-
ing-room to browse on material buns
amongst scarlet poppies. The widow Staugli-
ton, who is one of the leading bonnets of the
cluh, was in retreat in her sick-room —the
result of a too-early sortie into the world of
health. The function had to get along with
her good wishes.
One fancies that the hyphen in the title
of Margaret Cooper’s lawful lord and “man-
ager” must have been adopted subsequent
to his marriage with the lady who sings the
songs. Mr. Humble-Crofts is the son of an
English parson, and Humble sounds very
like the baptismal name of a vicar’s off-
spring. One can almost see the cleric, in all
the pride of his new paternity, patting his
two lots of finger tips together, and mur-
muring “We will call him Humble.” Or,
perhaps, the vicar himself, being christened
“Humble” by a reverend parent, hyphened
it to his surname in his pale young curate
days.
“Billie” Walters, an identity in the cos-
tuming department of stageland, is off for a
trip to the highly-colored countries that lie
to the north of Australia. Mrs. Walters, a
smart young matron, remains in Melbourne
to keep at an even temperature the scholarly
enthusiasm of her sops.
Nell Finnis, the mummeress with the tak-
ing smile, leaves here in about three weeks
time for South Africa, where a wealthy
suitor waits with ring, parson and book.
Their wedded life will be spent in the far
backblocks of the nigger continent.
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, who used to polish
up the family genius in Melbourne, is now-
adays going strong in London, though she
is more than ten times seven. She recently
got herself baptised at Westminster Abbey,
the ceremony having been carelessly over-
looked in her earlier years. In London, the
elderly mummeress is billed as Rose Edouin
Lewis when an engagement comes her way.
Ten of the young bloods, or red corpuscles,
of Melbourne gave a glittering send-off to the
second “Lauchie” Mackinnon and his wife
the other Friday night. It started with a
theatre party, at which 40 guests witnessed
the last shakes of the Quaker Girl’s bonnets,
and concluded with a priceless supper at the
Savoy. Each of the 40 was allowed to go
off with a silver menu stand, in memory of
the function. The Mackinnons are so in-
tensely Scottish that Mrs. Mac’s father, who
is also owner of the Scotsman, through his
Edinburgh office sends sprays of heather,
collected by its subscribers, to any homesick
Scot abroad who cares to send a postcard.
A dainty society maid of dazzling com-
plexion is just now in despair. She is
about to be married, and feels that she can-
not arrange her rooms as a series of bril-
liant backgrounds to suit herself, because
her husband is a ruddy-faced man with hair
like a Turner sunset, and, therefore, clashes
with all possible color arrangements. He
might be made to look a delicate shade of
blue by being presented with a series of
horrifying dress bills.
The elder John Grice daughter will just
wait to see the Cup run, and then steam off
to Colombo. At the black, high-smelling
port she is to join Mrs. Dickson and daugh-
ter Viola, with whom she will advance on
London. The Dicksons, sinfully regardless
of the races, steamed on ahead to pay a
fortnight’s visit to some Ceylon friends.
A week-old daughter of the George Lan-
dales is making herself heard at the resi-
dence of her maternal grandmother. The
father of the new heiress, who is known to
his friends as George the Silent, smiles
almost audibly, it is said, when the baby
cries.
Friends of the Rev. Stanley Low pair are
extending the glad hand of welcome to their
daughter, Irene Stainer, who quitted Aus-
tralia about 10 years ago with ber naval
officer husband. She has just returned from
Hong Kong as a grass widow on furlough.
Mrs. Stainer was a very popular young
thing when her father was in command of
Christ Church, St. Kilda, and the habit of
being charming remains as strong as ever
with her. When she goes back to Hong
Kong she will take nephew “Jack” Low
with her.
The McMasters, of Binnia Downs, have
retreated in disgust from this horse-stricken
State and fallen back with the unsuccessful
Lochano on the N.S.W. station, where the
family gee-gee will be nursed up in the hope
of future triumphs. Meanwhile, his owner
will strive to forget his disappointment by
playing polo furiously.
Lately heard two horsey men discussing
Royal Scotch and the split hoof which
assisted him to lose the Caulfield Cup. “Feet
too small,” said the knowing one. “All
Maoriland horses have very small feet. They
mostly come from Canterbury Downs, and
padding about on the soft level ground keeps
the feet small.” Two girls sitting close by
immediately felt sorry that they hadn’t been
brought up in Canterbury. On the subject of
small feet, Rumor swears (Rumor generally
swears before thinking) that a Melbourne
girl had a joint taken off each big toe, in
order that she might hobble in smaller shoes.
At any rate, she seams a more likely lunatic
than the girl who cut off her ears so that
she might be able to wear small hats (I
invented that girl, and you’ll probably hear
about her the minute small hats become
fashionable again.)
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Mrs. Dunbar asked about 100 of her friends to
meet her at the Rubeo on Tuesday afternoon. Tea
was flowing like wa—that is to say, like tea; and
cakes and other foodstuffs were revolving with in-
credible speed, when suddenly, out of the clear
joyous, well-fed sky came a grim bolt. The news
was broken that the Dunbars are to forsake these
cultured parts for the more commercial-minded atmo-
sphere of Melbourne. They have been here for years
and are extraordinarily popular.
The engagement s announced of Miss Danhne
Gale, a sister of Mrs. Keith Bowman, to Mr. “Dick”
Giles. He is on the land near Strathalbyn.
Talking of matrimony, Mrs. O. T. Hargrave (she
who was Mrs. Naish) will give her son in marriage
before the year is out.
Mrs. Brittain, of M.L., who was lately in Sydney,
has arrived here. She is staying, variously, with the
Bray lady and Mrs. Talbot Smith.
Mrs. Wordsworth James is back from America,
where, amongst other adventures, she saw her son
well and truly married. Her niece, Miss Polly Sheils,
leaves for England shortly with her aunt. Miss
Crabbe.
Two members of the Delprat family are off to the
war, or scramble, in the Balkans. A queer taste,
my dear, but it takes all sorts to make a world, as
Napoleon or someone is said to have remarked on
observing some members of the Wha Hae Highland
Society consuming haggis. They intend to doctor
the wounded. The Delprats are an amazingly clever
family, with an almost uncanny knack of collecting
degrees and foreign languages. By the way, Dr.
Mark Gardner, of Melbourne, is off to the front on
the same errand. He is one of us more or less —a
kind of semi-liigh-brow, as it were. He owes this
distinction to his uncle, the late Dr. Gardner, who
had a huge practice in Adelaide, and to his aunt,
Miss Kate Gardner, who still dashes over here when
she has a spare 10 minutes.
The Calendar which an energetic committee got
up in aid of the Seamen’s Mission has just come out,
and it is a credit to all concerned. In fact, I shall
stand in no danger of being accused of the language of
hyperbole if I state that the work is a Bosker. Its
main feature is a collection of literary fragments by
celebrities of the Kingdom of Ink.
Mrs. Swift gave a tea at her new house on
Brougham Place on Friday. Nothing sensational
happened, but these are times of piping peace, when
nothing sensational ever does happen at tea-parties.
Only wait till the Socialistic Tiger gets loose, and
then you shall see Trouble indeed.
The Misses French, who have lived at Mount Gam-
bier for a number of years, are to sail for England
in the Beltana, in February.
The “Peace” Meeting, on Monday evening, was as
uproarious as such gatherings usually are. None of
the speakers could get a hearing, and several were in
peril of being torn to pieces in the cause of universal
brotherhood and love and harmony. The Australian
flag was heartily hooted, and, in general, the company
behaved like asses and traitors.
The Public Library Board has decided to remove
the glass from some of the pictures in the Art Gallery.
A sound move this—that is, assuming the pictures in
question are meant to be seen. Hitherto, their ap-
pearance has been a darksome mystery to the multi-
tude.
Mr. Donald McArthur, one of our best-known south-
eastern stock-growers, died at Mount Gambier on
Tuesday.
Yours affectionately.
JOHANNA.


m
9mg
mm
m
■
\S
111
' .
Wahori’s
B E
SlkScoCh »:
4' Quality
;;
*
The Spirit of Comfort.
No. lO
W atson’s.


ASK FOR
♦ ♦ ♦
FRANZ JOSEF
LAGER BEER.
TRY ...
HAC KERB RA U
DARK LAGER.
gave herself up as done.
“I have been a resident of Rockhampton since
1866 and of late years have been a sufferer from in-
digestion ” says Mrs. Mary Anne Hawke, East Street,
Rockhampton (Q.). “To make a long story short, 1
gave myself up as done with this world when I hap-
pened to take up a Daily Record, in which I read
of the cure for my complaint —Chamberlain s tab-
lets lat once got a bottle and started to take them.
Before 1 had half finished it 1 felt (is if I could eat
and enjoy my food, which I could not do before.”*
London Beauty-Parlors Deserted.
SOCIETY WOMEN CUBE SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
BY SELF-TREATMENT.
ELECTROLYSIS OUTFIT FOR COLONIAL LADIES
ON SPECIAL TERMS. RETURNABLE WHEN
DONE WITH.
The English Society woman, tormented with the
scourge of superfluous hair, treats herself, or her
maid treats her, in her own home, using the safe and
sure process of home electrolysis, which the well-
known Madame Tensfeldt has now made available
for self-use by her new simplified apparatus. The pro-
cess is perfectly simple and quite permanent in its
effects. It can—be carried out at home by any lady.
There is no danger, no shock, no smarting, no scar.
It attacks the superfluous hair at the root —the only
place where there is any use in attacking it. Depila-
tories, which burn off the visible hair, are just as
dangerous to woman’s ultimate appearance as the
razor. They leave the root untouched; and as all
hair, of any sort, is tapering in shape, becoming
thicker as it grows, whether cut off or not, they,
of course, turn a fine hair into a coarse one when it
reappears, as it must. The Tensfeldt apparatus does
not sever the hair at all. It dissolves and kills the
root, so that each hair drops out intact, root and
all. That hair never grows again. The root is
dead. The skin remains natural and unharmed. Not
a trace of the disfigurement is left. The cure is
complete, final.
, Madame Tensfeldt’s book on the permanent eradi-
cation of superfluous hair may be had from herself,
and for the benefit of residents in the colonies she
offers to send a copy free. Without waiting for the
book, however, ladies are strongly recommended to
send at once for the apparatus, which has full
directions with it, and is guaranteed. The price is
£5 ss. for the apparatus, provided it is returned
by parcel post within six months. Her address is
120 a Princes Street, Edinburgh, Scotland. Those
desiring full particulars of this treatment ought to
send for a free copy of the Booklet, “The Face Per-
fect,” by Madame Tensfeldt.*
SAVE STOCK and MONEY
hfg
by castra ting
with the im-
proved instru-
DENVER’S
EMASCULATOR.
Its pri n e i pi e
absolutely pre-
vents loss of
Write for
it to-day.
4 51-
stock through hemorrhage.
PERFECT FOR HORSES, BULLS or RAMS.
Improved Mouth Gags, Cutters,
Drenching Bits, Rasps, Ball Guns, etc.
Write for Price List.
DENYER BROS.
281 Ceorge Street (opp.
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Poet E. J. Brady returned, the other day,
from the Northern Territory, Java and
Singapore, and spoke some good, plain
prose:—
Between the man who wants to flood the country
with cheap Asiatic labor, and the short-sighted labor
partisan who desires to stoD all immigration ior fear
of flooding the market, there is no difference —both
are enemies of the Commonwealth. I came in con-
tact with a number of people who are familiar with
the wonderful military and industrial development
of Japan, and found that they were all agreed that
Australia would some day be asked to open her
doors to the little brown man. It is generally recog-
nised in the East that Japan would be likely to take
advantage of any complications that Britain might
get into to compel us to put them on the same foot-
ing as Europeans. It is only a little time ago that
the Dutch Government had to accede to polite, but
determined, pressure to admit Japanese into Java,
several of Japan’s best battleships appearing the day
the formal request was made to the authorities. Our
turn will come as sure as night follows day.
IN TOPHET: THE LEADER OF THE
OPPOSITION.
The enlightened Government of Victoria,
< f which Willie Watt is chief and Weary
Murray rouseabout, was recently asked by
the Australian Government to assist in the
establishment of polling places in the hospi-
tals and benevolent institutions of the State.
The application was promptly leaped on by
Watt and co. on the ground that “they
totally disagreed with the proposal.” it
comes to this —Victoria’s enlightened Gov-
ernment considers that a citizen, by reason
of sickness or poverty of purse, or the bur-
den of years, should be disfranchised. A
great and shining democrat is Willie Blot.
Cohen’s disfavor brings the N.S.W. Labor
Government up against one of the worst of
its predicaments. It may have to sack Bill
—in fact, in several cases it actually has had
to sack Bill. Hill was prepared to overlook
the fact that the cessation of borrowing was
a foremost plank of the Labor platform, so
long as the borrowed money meant Govern-
ment jobs for Bill —likewise for ’Enery and
Bob. But when the jobs petered out owing
to the complete using up of the borrowed
cash, and the difficulty of obtaining more, and
Bill is sacked, his forgiveness ends. The
Government spoiled Bill, and now it has to
take the consequences.
The English language has been enriched
by a new word. Last week a disorderly sub-
urban (Sydney) alderman pulled himself
together in good time and besought, the
Mayor not to Willis him.
The S. M. Herald in its daily “Notes on
the War” :
The conflicting accounts which are received with
regard to the incidents at the seat of war are indi-
cative of» the strict censorship which is being exer-
cised, and the difficulty the newspaper correspondents
are experiencing in transmitting their news.. Corres
pondents who went through the South African war
were often not permitted to send any news of British
reverses.
Wiiat! “Correspondents were often not per-
mitted to send any news of British re-
verses” ! In the name of all that is amazing
how many British reverses were there?
Victorian bill-posters, by resolution, have
“strongly condemned” the municipalities
that are trying to do away with the hoard-
ings whereon they earn their pasty livings.
They seem to recognise that they have a poor
case artistically, for they merely appeal to
the baser humanitarian feelings by pointing
out that the removal of the tall nightmares
would throw hundreds of skilled inartisans
out of employment, and rush capital to the
scrap-heap. One enthusiastic brush, in sup-
porting the motion, said he “preferred a
well-dressed hoarding to a vacant rubbish-
littered block of land.” But why should
vacant laud be littered with rubbish at all ?
A real live council might ukase that all un-
occupied blocks be kept tidy enough to be
used as playgrounds, and never be permitted
to serve as the last resting-place of the
casual dead cat. The moral sense of anyone
with a dead cat to dispose of is weak ; and
he should be given facilities for getting rid
of the incubus. At present, if he objects to
burying it in his limited garden space, he
must either send it by parcel post to his
worst enemy, or leave it by night on the
nearest blasted heath. The fact that the
ugly hoarding prevents him leaving it on the
heath (it doesn’t if lie is a good thrower and
the cat can stand it) isn’t much of a case
for the hoarding.
“Rimu”: The tenderness of
Australasian authorities in
dealing with the people who
have conscientious scruples in
favor of loafing, when called
upon to get ready for the de-
fence of the country which
gives them bread and permits
them to share the interest on
the national I O 11, is likely to
get turned into something else
if the movement recently in-
augurated in Southland (M.L.)
should spread and become a
habit. The Bluff territorials
have gone out on strike, and
refuse to drill, wear uniforms,
shoot, or do any old thing until
the local shirkers are properly
dealt with. The citizen soldiers
served an ultimatum on their
officers, and when nothing came
of it; they attended parade and
refused to take any part in it.
Their action is, no doubt, plain
mutiny, but it is the kind of
mutiny that is likely to help
things forward, and, in fact, if
every blessed section of the
community which feels hurt
about not being allowed to do
its best would get up and
mutiny in the same way the
future might be full of cheer. For instance, a
general mutiny of taxpayers, with a re-
fusal to do any more graft until Cohen was
finally abandoned to his fate, would be both
profitable and heartening.
Prime Minister Fisher has discovered a
way to make wealth out of nothing, so to
speak. When the gold reserve against the
Commonwealth note issue was recently
checked, some soz. of dust were swept off
the tables. These were boiled down in the
Mint, at a cost of 10s. (id., and yielded gold
to the value of £1 Ss. 10d.. Net
profit, 18s. 4d. Tiie Bulletin long
ago pointed out the way to make anything
up to a whole million a year, by following
the Canadian banking system; but such
large policies don’t appeal to Fisher. He
is satisfied with the odd coppers.
ON THE OCEAN OF ECONOMICS.—A CHEERFUL PROSPECT.
The Bill, which deals with every maritime question under the sun, has much to say on the subject of
wrecks. It expressly forbids anyone who discovers a wreck to hide it, or run away with it, or feloni-
ously appropriate it to his own use. Purloining a wreck is, indeed, a serious offence Clause 310,
giving the Commonwealth power to ruthlessly seize and claim all wrecks, was agreed to. —Age.
THE WAITING PASSENGER : “That certainly is Cap a Fisher on deck.... Yes, an’ that's
Bosun Tudor at the wheel. ... But damme if they ain’t seized that disgraceful
old derelict!"
While the Navigation Bill was in com-
mittee of the House of Reps, a few days ago,
Dr. Maloney put in a plea that the officers of
a vessel of 1000 tons or more should include
a duly-qualified and reasonably-paid medical
man. Said Maloney :
On many ships coming to Australia the medical
man is paid only Is. a month. I desire to do away
with that sort of thing. .. .The China Navigation Co.
pays a fair sum to its medical officers, equal to about
the pay of a first mate. The Eastern line of steamers
also pays its medical officers fair salaries. The
P. and O. and the Orient cos. used to pay a nominal
salary, and the medical officer was supposed to re-
ceive tips.
M.D. often seems to stand for Mainly De-
frauded. Incidentally, the member for Mel-
bourne stated that, had a doctor been aboard
the ship on which Richard Seddon took his
last voyage, the big Maorilander would prob-
ably not have died. Maloney was only half-
satisfied when he was informed by Minister
Tudor that the Bill made provision for quali-
fied doctors on Australian-trade ships, or
ships leaving Australia. He wanted to know
who was going to fix their salaries, and only
subsided when Tudor told him that possibly
the Arbitration Court would be asked to
take a hand in that matter.
AN INCIDENT
OF AUSTRA-
LIAN HISTORY.
The flight of Capital in 19
“Green Tape,” in no Christian spirit: —
N.S.W. Public. Service is exercised over the latest
doings of the Works Dept. “Holy Joe” Davis has
been handed the garment of Director-General of Pub-
lic Works, and has named as his assistant Paddy
Allen, Chief Engineer at Newcastle. This means the
freezing-out of Jack Portus, the Assistant Under-
secretary. The reason for these changes is that
Joseph wants a professional assistant (which Portus
isn’t). The fact that Paddy Allen is a friend of
Joe’s, and that Portus is not, has nothing to do with
the case. Portus is to be made President of the
Metropolitan Board of Water Supply. The president
of the Board who is to be superseded is a very cap-
able man, named W. J. Millner. He is Allen s
senior, and when he was promoted, to his present
position, Allen was moved up to the chief engineer-
ship at Newcastle, vacated by Millner. Now Millner
is to be given an Irishman’s rise back to Newcastle,
while his junior is helped over his head by the aid
of the wings of Joseph Davis. The cheekiest thing
about it is that Millner, who has nothing to do
with the Works satraps, but holds his billet from
the Executive, first heard of the changes when he
opened his newspaper one morning. I suppose he
wants to know who has put the ring through the
nose of the Executive. If he doesn’t, I am acquainted
with quite a large collection of people who do.
The sleeping sickness that was Weary’s
and now is Watt’s has lately attacked the
Vic. Assembly, and sundry bills will soon be
taken and hanged by the neck until they are
dead. Very recently there were 34 orders of
the day on the business paper, and measures
like the Public Service Bill, Workers’ Com-
pensation Bill, Teachers Bill, and Appren-
ticeship Bill had then been loafing about for
days and were in danger of arrest for loiter-
ing. In addition to those, the \\ att lailia-
ment has onlv just begun to burden its in-
tellect with the Greater Melbourne scheme,
the inglorious Budget, and the newly-hatched
electrification proposal. The last arrange-
ment or plot, wherein the imported expert
Merz might annex a fee ranging anywhere
from £30.000 to £120,000, is bound to cause
a lot of talk. Premier Watt has already
worn his tongue to a point in giving the sub-
ject a mere preliminary mention.
Apparently the Cabinet of Willie Watt, of
Victoria, is an extra-individualistic concern,
and each member does as he thinks fit. Five
months ago, according to Watt, the Cabinet
decided to instruct the Railway Commis-
sioners that, in importing railway material,
they should give substantial preference to
British as against foreign firms, and the
Railways Minister should have given writ-
ten instructions to that effect. Railways
Mcßride admits that he has given no in-
structions, and sg.ys “it is a subject for the
Cabinet.” The Commissioners profess en-
tire ignorance o£ the matter, though it is
inconceivable that they were not aware of
the Parliamentary discussion and the subse-
quent Cabinet decision. So, because nobody
thought it worth while to say anything on
the subject, the cheap British firms have
been ousted by the still • cheaper foreigner.
Had it been a question of Australian goods
against those of sweated labor from overseas,
the forgetfulness of everybody would have
been taken as a matter of course.
Some men are easily comforted. The
other day N.S.W. Treasurer Cann thought
he had hold of the coat-tails of some French
Cohenschild with ±3,UUU,OUU m
his pocket. Then the clawing
started in the Balkans and
thereabouts, and Cann wired
a hurried inquiry to London.
“The war won’t make any dif-
ference,” xYgent-General Cogh-
lan answered promptly. All
the same, a few days later the
Cohenschild dropped suddenly
out of sight, and Coghlan was
found imploring his old fpiend
J. Bull for £1,500,000 to go on
with. Thereupon Cann ; com-
forted himself with the remark
that the £3,000,000 would have
been all right but for the war,
altogether ignoring the bite in
Coglilan’s reply that the war
made no difference. And most
likely it didn’t.
THE TALKING SCHOOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a meeting held at Melbourne recently, Mr.
O m moved: “That it is desirable to form a
al Speakers’ Association.” Mr. Watt seconded.
Carried. The chairman said that the idea was to
train a young speakers’ brigade. They would start
with 30.
There is grief and pain where the fat men grow,
For the Tory speakers are old and slow,
And the younger men, if they own some brains,
Are sick of the wail about “Labor’s chains” ;
So the rear-guard action is somewhat weak
For lack of a young voice trained to speak.
But Watt and Deakin have formed a school
To sharpen the wits of the gilded fool,
And the young man eloquent soon may rise
As the bulwark of Fat and his enterprise,
While the air is filled with the tutored breath
Of rhetoric talking its cause to death.
The ground may be poor that they want to till,
And progress is hard to maim or kill,
And you can’t orate with much vim and swing
When you fight for a Trust or a Shipping Ring.
It’s a quaint old notion, this school of chat,
To teach young Podgy to praise old Fat.
Ah; the underprops of the Tory cause
Fail one by one, and with scarce a pause
The lights go out and the faint hopes fly,
Till the Fattest knows that the end is nigh ;
And it seems to me that, when all is said,
Thfe' Alf-talk school is about born dead.
VICTORIA.
FRANK RADCLIFFE.


■ HA New Grade of j
: ChSape® Petrol
■ ,
•••*f has fceen addedto ourfjial; of
•1 I ;i;| %%,*.* \ 111
■High Glade Petroleum Spirits.
■ ill Ml IfJ i
Xou ha||||!!|ree gladeiof
1} Ip Pratt's Spirits to choole from :
4 “Pratt** Yellow Label *|§ j
A Superfine odorless, light spirit || J
■ . .“ Pratt’s Red ; : .|i
A high grade highty: deodorised benzine ©tiff
HI! great power.
JO
A cheaper Spirit for business Cars or Motor j
Waggons. Powerful and economical 1 Kd.-
per gallon cheaper. .:;,, j
If your. Garage does not stock, order, direct
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty, Ltd.
i
«9»
¥
■■■■
The "Lucky Owner”
—of a Lincoln Stuart Tailored Suit is the
Man who wins the Congratulations
(though they may be unspoken) of those
who know how rare is really good Tailor-
ing—and who can appreciate the value
to a Man of True Clothing Perfection.
You can be a
“Lincoln-Stuart Tailored Man”
—You can be the Best-Dressed Man in your partic-
ular world —no matter in what distant portion of
the Commonwealth you are situated. Our Mail
Order Service gives to every Man in this Big Con-
tinent of ours ALL the Tailoring Benefits that
are usually regarded as being the special Perquisite
of the City Man.
PATTERNS POST FREE
From 10,000 “ Certified to Satisfy ” all-wool Suit-
ings (Australian and British made) together with
a copy of our Mail-Order Catalog, Self-Measure-
ment Forms, Tapes etc.—Remember, there is no
Barrier of Cost—whatever figure is yours from
50s to 105 s
At that figure WE GUARANTEE SATISFAC-
TION —if we fail, we refund your money in full.
Could we offer more ? Write to-day.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd
Flinders Street, Melbourne,
“ Mail-Order Tailors and Outfitters ”
DON’T FORGET YOOR ABSENT FRIENDS
Novv is the Time to Order our Special Lines suitable for Sending Abroad. Our
View Books are Absolutely the Best ever Published in Australasia.
Panoramic Sydney” contains only full-page panoramas. 24 Lovely Views. Each illustration
20 x 7 inches. Some of the views are 42 x 6 inches. Thousands of copies already sold. Price
1/6, post free 1/9. (In buying, see that your copy bears our imprint.)
Sydney Illustrated.” Panoramic Picture 9ft. in length, enclosed in stiff board cover, with
key to picture. A unique publication. Price 1/-, post free 1/3
“Sydney Descriptive and Illustrative .” 36 Views and Panorama of the Best Scenes in
and around Sydney, enclosed in gold embossed cover. All up-to-date views. A charming publi-
cation. Price 1/., post free 1/2.
100 Views of Sydney and Country Scenes in N.S.W . Cloth gilt. Assorted bindings.
Makes a lovely present. Price 3/6, post free 4/-
250 Choice Views. Illustrative of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and
Tasmania, with panoramas. A splendid collection of pictures. Cloth gilt cover. Price 6/-,
post free 6/8.
In addition we publish Separate View Books (enclosed in gold embossed covers) of each of the
States. Each book contains 36 views and panorama. Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Perth, Tasmania. Price 1/- each, post free 1/2.
BOOKLETS.
“Gum Tree Gossip.” 12 illustrations, accompanied by suitable verses, Australian Birds and
Animals. Price 6d. per copy, post free 7d.
“Picturesque N. S. Wales.” 12 views, printed in colors, of our Beauty Spots—with
Xmas Greetings. Price 6d., post free 7d.
“Australian Poets.” 12 illustrations in color, accompanied by verses selected from the Aus-
tralian poets. A charming publication. Price 6d., post free 7d.
In addition to the foregoing we stock Australian Postcards, Autograph
Stationery, Xmas Cards, and Novelties.
We have just brought out from England a Beautiful Collection of Assorted
Xmas and New Year Cards. Record Value.
We import direct. No middleman’s profit to pay.
Direct from the Manufacturer to the Consumer.
“The Bookstall.” Packet, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, assorted, Xmas and New Year.
6d. Postage extra, Id.
“Sparkling Gems.” Box, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, assorted, Xmas and New Year
and Envelopes. 1/- Postage extra, 4d.
“Christmas Bells.” Box, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, assorted, Xmas and New Year
and Envelopes. 1/- Postage extra, 4d.
“To Greet You.” Box, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, New Year only, and Envelopes.
1/- Postage extra, 4d.
“Roses.”- —Box, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, New Year only, and Envelopes. 1/6.
Postage extra, 4d.
“Golden Thoughts.” Box, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, assorted, Xmas and New Year,
and Envelopes. 1/6. Postage extra, 4d.
“Xmas Joys.” Box, containing 12 Chbice Folding Cards, assorted, Xmas and New Year, and
Envelopes. 1/6. Postage extra, 4d.
“The Remembrance.” Box, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, assorted, Xmas and New
Year, and Envelopes. 1/6. Postage extra, 4d.
“Ivy Leaves.” Box, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, assorted, Xmas and New Year, and
Envelopes. 2/- Postage extra, 4d.
“Greetings.” Box, containing 12 Choice Folding Cards, assorted, Xmas and New Year, and
Envelopes. 2/6. Postage extra, 4d.
CALL AND INSPECT OUR STOCK.
POST ORDERS to be addressed, N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
IM.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
Branches ; 406 George Street.
179 Pitt Street.
861 Ceorgre Street.
51 Pitt Street.
389 Pitt Street (near Liverpool Street).
291 King Street, Newtown.
Railway Stations and Ferry Jetties.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
List of Subjects Available for Sale or Exchange
and to Subscribers to the Circulating Library.
The list given is not complete. There are many other subjects, and the list
is being added to automatically by from 20 to 30 every month.
ALL PATHE HOME CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS ARE NON-INFLAMMABLE.
HISTORICAL.
Coronation of Napoleon I.
SCIENTIFIC.
Mediterranean Jelly Fish
Life and metamorphosis of the Dragon Fly.
HUNTING.
Hupting the Giraffe.
Boar Hunt.
Bear Hunt.
Walrus Hunt.
Whale Fishing.
Elephant Hunting for Ivory.
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
Japanese Types.
A Japanese Marriage.
Coppelia.
Italian Dances.
Head-dress of Historical Periods.
A Marriage in Brittany.
TRAVEL.
Niagara Falls.
The Ganges.
Through the Old Egyptian Temples
Carnival at Nice.
A Crocodile Farm.
The Great lee Sea.
Sea Effects at Monte Carlo.
Venice.
Rapids of the River Magdapis.
BIBLICAL.
Moses Saved from the Waters.
The Prodigal Son.
FAIRY.
Fairy Spring.
Pierrot’s Nightmare.
Lightning Changes.
Magic Flowers.
The Golden Beetle.
Trip Round a Star.
Arabian Wizard.
COMIC.
Rest Impossible.
Modern Sculpture.
His First Cigar.
The Plank.
A Cure for Baldness.
The Conjurer.
Jim Out Hunting.
Tom Thumb, Flirt.
An Unskilful Skater.
A Victim of Hanging.
Max, Equilibrist.
The Haunted Hotel.
The Dancing Pig.
VARIETY.
Cat Studies.
Jiu-Jitsu.
Grecian Dance.
Japanese Equilibrists.
Owners of Machines who have not had information respecting Pathos Circu-
lating Library of Moving Picture Films, and Pathe’s Cinematograph Exchange,
should write for booklet giving full particulars.
Those desiring information respecting Pathg’s Home Cinematograph should
write at once for Booklet. This machine makes its own light, and can be used
anywhere, in town or country, without any risk whatever. The light costs nothing
and the films are absolutely non-inflammable.
PATHE FRERES,
27 alliance buildings,
48 queen st., Melbourne.
TASMANIA: S. SPURLING & SON, 93 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
QUEENSLAND; BIRCH & CARROLL, Rothwell Chambers, Brisbane.
W.A.: THE OPTICAL & PHOTO SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and POST AT ONCE TO AN Y OF THE ADDRESSES ABOVE.
PATIJE FRERES, 1/8 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free catalogue of the Pathehome Cinematograph.
Name
Address
Dept. C 27.


£
KUPP
LACER
THE LITTLE AMBER BOTTLE.
A FAMILIAR OBJECT IN THOUSANDS
OF HOMES.
The Amber Bottle in which Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are packed is probably
better known as a familiar object about the
home than any other bottle of a like kind.
It is not there as an ornament, but for prac-
*WSE’S
DIRECTIONS
hktbtfon ntiring.
INDIAN ROOT
'PILLS
tical, every-day use.
In the best-regulated
families the little ills
of life will creep in.
Some member of the
family circle may oc-
casionally suffer from
biliousness or indi-
gestion, and one or
the other will from
time to time exhibit
the well-known symp-
toms of constipation.
From these little
troubles more serious
complaints arise, and
should, therefore, not
be neglected. The
slight headache, bad
breath and discol-
ored tongue, are the
index to a disordered stomach, and the neces-
sity of keeping a safe, sure, and reliable
remedy in the house is apparent. By follow-
ing such a course the more expensive method
of calling in a doctor will be quite unneces-
sary. Be your own doctor, prescribe Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and always keep
the little bottle in the house, so that when
sickness invades your home you will have a
sure and reliable remedv to banish it from
your threshold.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
SJAW
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Cover nor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“K.” : The three first favorites at the start
of last Melbourne Cup carried 9st. 121 b. (Trafalgar),
Bst. 91b. (Parisian), and 9st. 71b. (Comedy King).
This year the highest weights remaining in the handi-
cap are Aurofodina (9st. 21b.) and. Cadonia (9st.),
who ran in last Cup, carrying Bst. 51b. and Bst. 91b.
respectively. They at any rate are not likely to be
strong public fancies at the start; but the third-
highest weight—Lady Medallist (Bst. 111 b.) —is bound
to be well backed if she wins the Melbourne
Poseidon, the only winner thus far of the
two Cups, carried as a three-year-old 7st. 71b. in the
Caulfield, and 7st. Gib. in the Melbourne. Uncle
Sam, as a four-year-old, had 7st. 61b. on top the
other Saturday, and will carry exactly the same
weight for the Melbourne Cup, if nothing happens
him meanwhile. So he doesn’t appeal to backers of
coincidences, as he would have done if he had
humped a pound more than 7st. 61b. at Caulfield.
However, Uncle Sam’s 7st. 61b. is one of the two
most winning weights on the record. Poseidon,
Merriwee and Acrasia each carried 7st. 61b. New-
haven, Glenloth and The Assyrian were each on the
7st. 131 b. mark. On the other hand, two winners in
succession—Dunlop and Mentor—carried Bst. 31b.,
which is Duke Foote’s job.
* * * *
The result of the Moonee Valley Cup race
last Saturday brought another English-bred candidate
right into the Melbourne Cup betting. Moreover, it
gave an indirect advt. to the claims of Uncle Sam.
Almissa, who won the 10 event at the
Valley, from Ladies’ Man and Beverage, had been
regarded as a worthless importation until he ran
seconti to Uncle Sam in the Toorak Handicap, where
the chestnut was giving him 181 b. On the strength
of this unexpected display of improvement, Almissa
was fancied a little for the Caulfield Cup. He was
the unlucky one of the crowd, for he lost his rider.
At Moonee Valley his rider remained in the saddle
and the natty little gee came with a ouite brilliant
run at the finish. Almissa’s penalty brings him to
7st. only for Melbourne Cup. but he will meet Uncle
Sam on 121 b. worse terms than in the Toorak Han-
dicap, all the same. Also, he will meet Ladies’ Man
on 81b. worse terms in the Melbourne Cup.
However, his manner of winning, from the back of
the field, suggested that he will outlast the Sydney
horse on the longer journey.
The running of Mountain Princess in the Moonee
Valley Cup should be a warning to punters against
paying much heed to newspaper headlines re gallops on
the track. Mountain Princess was boomed by the touts
on her alleged fast exercise gallops, _ but the mare,
who has probably staled since the winter, ran abso-
lutely last for the first half-mile. All the same, she
is a good mare, and, if she is eased in her work, she
may win a race on some not distant day, when the
ground is soft.
This year’s Cup meeting at Flemington
opens under circumstances which are distinctly un-
usual, not to say extraordinary. In the first place,
nobody is waiting to fancy the Derby winner for the
next Tuesday’s event, although there have been years
when the chamnion three-year-old scored the double.
This time the Blue Ribbon looks likely to fall to one;
that wasn’t even entered for the Cup, and, on the
other hand, the probability of Cider or Harpist beat-
ing the Victorian opposition in a canter, doesn’t sug-
gest that either of the Sydney colts may start at a
short price for the Cup. The writer expects Burra-
wang to win the Derby from Wolawa, Cider, Rathlea
and Harpist, not on his form, which is anything but
brilliant, but because his long, striding way of beat-
ing a poor field in the Caulfield Guineas had a master-
ful appearance. Neither Burrawang nor Wolawa is a
Cup candidate. Cider, however he may run, would
not look equal to scoring the double with 7st. 71b. up;
but if Harp's! runs a very great race in the Derby
without earning a penalty by actually winning, his
6st. 121 b. will bo a recommendation in the Cun.
The writer likes Harpist best of the three-year-olds
for the Cup, but doesn’t fancy he will beat his well-
treated elders.
This year the leniently-handicapped older horses
carry the bulk of the good judges’ corn and the
public’s confidence. In last Bulletin a selection was
promised from five —Duke Foote (Bst. 31b.), Artesian
(Bst.), Uncle Sam (7st. 71b.), Hallowmas (7st. 31b.)
and Lady Medallist (Bst. 111 b.). Others with vis-
ible pretensions to a chance are Eye Glass (said to
be much improved), Almissa, Eudorus. Ladies’ Man,
Piastre, Flavian, and Bobadea. The last two
stand for mystery. Bobadea was backed heavily
bv his owner months ago, but has since done nothing
to justify the plunge. Eudorus, the aged flier
from England, seemed to find the Caulfield Cup
course too far for him. Flavian, the runner-up in
both Cups last vear, has 111 b. more to carry this
year, although he didn’t get near the winner in either
Cup 12 months ago. Nothing lived with Lady
Medallist at Caulfield, or with The Parisian at Flem-
ington. Then why fancy Flavian, who has shown no
brilliancy this season, thus far? Piastre is a more
serious proposition, for he was Duke Foote’s nearest
rival in the Metropolitan last month, and is suspected
of bring a stayer. The trouble in making out a case
for Piastre is that Ladies’ Man stuck to him all the
way at Randwick, was beaten only a length by him
at the finish, and will meet him on a trifle better
terms next Tuesday, if he runs. Piastre’s claim is
not so obtrusively evident as that of any of this
paper’s chosen five, but Almissa looks a likely sur-
prise if he be a genuine stayer.
Artesian came from the West with a more recent
reputation as a Perth Cup w.nner than his old op-
ponent, Jolly Beggar. He is a pretty good stayer, for
sure. His defeat of Royal Scotch (at practically
even weights) in the Coongy Handicap, at Caulfield,
with Sandbath lengths behind the pair, was a fine
performance. Given a wet day and a muddy course,
the writer would as soon back Artesian as Duke
Foote, whose stamina is not yet proved beyond ques-
tion. But one has to make fair-weather prophecies
nine days before the race. Hallowmas, if Smith can
ride him in preference to Aurofodina, must be reason-
ably fancied for a place. Nobody knows how good
the English horse, so greatly improved of late, may
become by Tuesday next. He won over 14 furlongs
three weeks ago, and even with his 101 b. penalty he
is “thrown into” the handicap, like Almissa. Prob-
ably Hallowmas and Almissa will start for the
Hotham Handicap on Derby Day, and show their
form up to date. Lady Medallist, all going well
with her, is prettv certain, in this scribe’s opinion,
to be among the first five for the Cup. As between
Uncle Sam and Duke Foote —neither of whom has
gone further than 12 furlongs to victory, and both of
whom may fail on the pinch for all that anybody
can swear to —it appears to be an inter-State ques-
tion. The wise men from Sydney mostly snort at
the idea of Uncle Sam or any other Cun candidate
being in the same class as the Metropolitan and
w.f.a. winner. Victorians believe in Uncle Sam’s
ability to come at the business end of a journey, as
he did in the Toorak Handicap mile and the Caulfield
Cup mile and a half. He receives 111 b. from Duke
Foote in the two miles race, and if the two should
meet in the Melbourne Stakes, the vexed question of
“class” ought to be settled definitely. With Lady
Medallist and Beverage to put the acid on either or
both of them next Saturday, the Cup pretensions of
one or other may be snuffed out. Meanwhile, this
paper fancies
Uncle Sam,
on the ground that he won Caulfield Cup brilliantly,
and will not have to carry an ounce more weight at
Flemington. Second and third placed horses in pre-
vious Caulfield Cups have done the trick in the two-
miles race, because they didn’t incur a penalty.
Uncle Sam has incurred a little more penalty than
he carried the other week, yet it leaves him with
exactly the same weight. Compared with his prede-
cessors, he has an exceptionally big chance.
Godfrey Watson, the V.R.C. starter, was
charged at Melbourne City Court, last week, with
the crime of biffing a policeman who had repri-
manded him for biffing a mere ordinary citizen.
Seemingly it was more in sorrow than in indignation
that the unjustly assaulted John called Godfrey to
answer for his sin—which, by the way, cost the
sinner £5 only. A policeman can forgive such indis-
cretions in one who has the proud distinction of rid-
ing his cob down the Flemington course to start
the Melbourne Cup field. John didn’t make out a
bad case against Godfrey, so it is up to the latter
to find out what his capturer has backed for the
Cup and see that it gets well away from the barrier.
The changing of the jockey for Cadonia’s
Melbourne Cup effort produced a chorus of “Whaf-
fors?” and the owner was accused of not having
given McDonald a fair deal. As a matter of fact,
the owner of Cadonia has a very high opinion of
McDonald, but does not think he is strong enough
to lift such a lazy horse over the long two-mile run.
J. E. Pike will, therefore, ride the loafer for all
engagements, and McDonald will have his pick of
other mounts belonging to the same people. Also,
with characteristic generosity, the owner has pledged
himself, should Cadonia win, to pay McDonald as
well as Pike a winning rider’s fee. Why an owner
should be abused for doing his best at the cost of
an extra £5OO to give the backers and himself the
best possible run for the bacon is inexplicable.
THE PERI AT THE GAIE OF
PARADISE.
In view of recent scandals in America, all Jack
Johnson’s Australian engagements have been can-
celled. —News item.
Bruiser Johnson seems tn be in the soup.
He has a bodyguard of the worst toughs and slug-
gers in Chicago, and the danger of his being lynched
seems to have temporarily blown over. But the Yan-
kees are such an hysterical crowd, that one never
knows when the Chicago mob may fly off the handle.
Meantime, the people who are stirring up the trouble
make no secret of the fact that they intend to do
their darndest to save Johnson the trouble of earn-
ing his own living for quite a long while; and, in
any case, to make it impossible- for him to do it in
the United State.s. The ball was opened by the can-
celling of the license of his gildejl Cafe Champion—•
the place with the cuspidors of solid silver and 32
portraits of Johnson in gilded frames scattered round
the dining-rooms. Then the various boxing clubs,
without waiting to hear whether Johnson was guilty
or not, announced that his name was struck off the
lists ; and promoter Carey issued a sort of proclama-
tion of dethronement by announcing, that as far as
he was concerned, the heavy-weight championship of
the world was vacant, and he offered a belt of cham-
pionship for competition among whites only. John-
son seems to have run the whole gamut of sensations.
F rst he was furious at being arrested: then he was
thoroughly scared, and whined that he could not
help it if white women fell in love with him and
pursued him : finally, having organised a bodyguard
of blackguards, he is reported to have got his tail
up again, and boasted that he could capture the
affections and person of any white woman his fasci-:
nating gilded mouth might happen to water for.
Probably the scared wretch never said anything of
the sort ; but if he did, or if the American people
believe he did, the boastful remark is likely to cost
him mighty dear. His own brother is said to have
turned him down, and his white chauffeur is re-
ported to have supplied the police with evidence of
value ; and between them they have managed to sug-
gest that Johnson was one of the gentlemen for
whom the “white slave” traffic was carried on, and
to have been connected or mixed up with, or a
client of, some organisation which turned its un-
savory dollars by procuring white women for wealthy
niggers and Chinese of affluence. .
* * * *
“Mai Reve” attends a Stadium seance:—
A feature of life in Sydney, these days, is the
splendid exuberance of the local sporting writer’s
imagination. The effect of an evening at the Stadium
is to throw him into a high mental fever. He is
transformed from an ordinary, ink-stained journalist
into something resembling the improvisatore of old
Italy. Consider, for example, the following typical
extract from a daily paper account of last Saturday’s
Midwood-Balzac affray:—
“There were times when the men fought toe to
toe without budging an inch, with the crowd, -num-
bering several thousands, on its feet in the delirium
of the moment. When one man would receive a
blow he would come back like a wild cat mad with
wounds. .. .Suddenly, as at a given word, they both
cut loose. The onlookers rose to their feet and
cheered frantically, while the fighters battled as if
for life.... The contest seemed to be the Frenchman’s.
But to the astonishment of everybody Midwood came
from his seconds to fight like a man possessed. His
opponent answered ! They punched at close quarters,
apparently not caring what hard knocks came their
way. When they went once more to seek the atten-
tion of their seconds, the excitement was intense.
The tension relaxed in the fifth round, but there were
stirring situations galore. The most desperate was
when Balzac literally flew at his adversary,” etc. etc.
It is enough to cause the plain, drab burgher, who
goes to these shows in a sober state, to suspect him-
self of astigmatism, or worse.
The writer saw the whole of the disturbance.
Calmly, but very firmly, does he deny that the
crowd, numbering thousands, was ever on its feet in
the delirium of the moment. No one rose and cheered
frantically. For one thing, there was nothing to
cheer about; for another, any emotional nuisance
who rises to his feet at the Stadium, and so obstructs
the view of those behind, is passed out by one of
Mclntosh’s genteely cotton-gloved henchmen —and
rightly so. The most remarkable characteristic of
Saturday night’s fight was the number of times the
combatants missed each other. Balzac was not seri-
ously hit at all. Midwood was only nailed three
times. Once he carelessly placed his right ear in the
vast orbit of one of Balzac’s semaphore-like swings,
and well-nigh had his head knocked off. He spent
nine astounded seconds on the floor, while the French-
man stood off and felt the member that had done the
damage, to learn if it was broken. The other two
blows, or whatever one might call them, were de-
livered with Balzac’s head. Meritorious work, doubt-
less. under the rules of a goat compound, but, re-
garded as boxing, quite negligible. Balzac never
“flew” at any stage of the contest: he is of the
plugging order of pug, and no more capable of
flight than a Town Hall. Midwood never came from
his seconds like a man possessed of anything beyond
excessive respect for the hardness of Balzac’s skull.
Neither stood toe to toe and fought, or cut loose,
or imitated wild cats, or anything but extremely
futile fighters. For eight rounds they hurled ill-
aimed punches at each other, and, on discovering that
the blows had gone astray, clinched and wrestled.
Then Balzac used bis head and the referee disqualified
him.
A novelty was introduced, at the finish, in the
form of a fusillade of sobs and a cataract of tears,
not only from the beaten gladiator, but from all his
seconds, towel-wavers, bottle-holders and so on. In
the interests of persons who suffer from wet feet, it
would be a humane move to have the Gallic corner
of the ring water-proofed or drained. By the way,
the Telegraph was guilty of the following:—
“It is doubtful if a more interesting personality
than Ercole de Balsac, ever stepped into the Austra-
lian ring. He is a grandson of Honore de Balsac, the
great novelist. He consequently belongs to a noble
French family, just as his grandfather gave up law
for literature, much to the scorn of his relatives, so
Ercole de Balsac gave up law for the boxing ring.”
Balzac wasn’t a member of a noble French family.
His people weren’t even bourgeois. Their proper
name was Balssa, and they were day-laborers
in the Dept, of the Tarn. The novelist didn’t adopt
the ‘“de” till his fame was established, and the deed
furnished Paris with a nine-days’ jest. The grandson
yarn reminds the writer of a taxi-cab driver he once
met, whose name was Latimer, and who claimed
accordingly to be a lineal descendant of the celi-
bate-martyr of that ilk. Balzac only married on his
death-bed, so to speak, and he left no descendants.
The lnok of the French boxer is dead out
on both sides of the world. Paul Til was defeated
in his first battle, and failed to get the decision in
his second, when, in the opinion of many, he had
earned it ; Bernstein was glad to quit; and now
Balzac has been blown out. All this in Australia.
In Paris, George Carpentier met William Papke on
Wednesday evening last week, and after 17 rounds of
more or less desperate fighting passed in the sponge,
and Papke got the verdict. Papke was 4oz. over-
weight, and they cost him £5O apiece in forfeit
money. How much the fight was for the cable-
grammer forgot to mention.
* * * *
The wise action of South Australia’s cricket
selectors in giving young blood a show was justified
by the 104 of Moyes and the 102 of -Gooden in the
match against Westralia. It was the initial appear-
ance of both of them in inter-State cricket, and the
performances put up suggest brilliant careers in the
quest of the Sheffield Shield. D. R. Gehrs also smote
mightily for 119 ; but that is nothing new on the
part of Gehrs. #
Though a fine, cool afternoon gave every
opportunity, few of Melbourne’s batsmen “did^ them-
selves proud” on Saturday. ’Wood, with 170 for
its first innings, polished off the premier Northcotes
for 63 (Coburn six for 17, Pitcher two for nine) ;
then it totted up 39 for one wicket and “closed,
leaving ’Cote two hours in which to make 147 and
win, or get out and lose three points. The brick-
makers very nearly lost outright, young Ryder collar-
ing eight for 64 ; but time ran out before he could
annex the other two. So ’Cote lost .its second match
on the first innings—a bad start for the season. ’Roy,
with the thick end of the waddv in its fist, “de-
clared” with 172 for four wickets against Essen-
don’s 52, and sent the latter in again in the hope
of a straight-out win, which duly arrived with nine
wickets to spare. East, with 131 for five, raised the
total to 235 for six, and “declared,” giving Carlton
Buckley’s chance of quadrupling its previous tally of
65. Carlton didn’t try ; it merely kept its end up,
and suffered a first innings’ walloping. South put on
another hundred for its last three wickets—272 alto-
gether. Then it ran North through in fine style for
115, fast bowler Facy getting five wickets for 29 and
veteran Giller three for 44. ’Varsity lost three wic-
kets and a lot of precious time in raising its 253 to
281 for six wickets; then it “closed,” and endeav-
ored to run Richmond in and out twice before six
o’clock. Hartkopf, 99 in the first innings, made a
valiant try for the straight-out win, but once again
time was on the side of the losers. Hartkopf, afore-
said took eight for 57 in Richmond’s first innings
(total, 127). Altogether, the bowlers have had much
the better of the deal this season, and if the selectors
will only put these youngsters in the inter-State
teams and drop the stodgy has-beens, the Cabbage
Garden may achieve a few feats later on. *
The third round of Sidney first-grade
cricket started on Saturday, but was cut short by
a storm-burst. Rain swept along in sheets; hail-
stones pelted about: and thunder and lightning took
a hand in the frolic. A tram-car was struck at
Dover-road, and a railway guard was hurled 15ft. by
an electric explosion at the Central Railway. It was
an occasion when the swiftest runner among the
cricketers fared best, for in that skedaddle for shelter
the last men got wet. Still, some very pretty scor-
ing was done. For the first time this season Univer-
sity was at home; and with two premiership pen-
nants flying on the local stands, Glebe no doubt felt
dispirited when it called in. The Students won the
toss (so far they have not lost it once this season),
and, proceeding' to paste the Glebe bowling cruelly,
they had smacked up 267 for the loss of four wickets
when Pluvius started to pelt in raindrops, large
enough, any of them, to drench a man. Balmain,
puffed up with pride at having defeated the premier
club, went out to Petersham and fell upon the locals.
In this case pride did not go before a cropper ; Peter-
sham was smashed up for a mediocre 115, and Balmain
had smacked 27 without losing a wicket when the
batsmen were washed off the field. Gordon called on
Redfern, and slogged 202 for the loss of seven wic-
kets, when the players swam to safety. Central
Cumberland, otherwise Parramatta, went down where
once a Chinese garden bloomed, and met Paddington.
There used to be a two-up school and a fan-tan resort
in the vicinity, so it was not surprising that the
local club won the toss and knocked 185 off the
Cumberland bowling for the loss of four wickets be-
fore the heavens opened and the fountains of the
great deep burst. At Sydney Cricket Ground, Waver-
lev’s bowlers dismissed Sydney for 167, and then
made for shelter. North Sydney journeyed to St. Luke’s,
where Burwood awaited them, and "when last heard
of had smashed seven Burwood wickets for 188 runs.
Not a single century lit up the gloom of the stormy
afternoon, and the spectacle of Cody, of Paddington,
swimming for his life with his bat for 95 shone like
a good cigar in a room of clay nose-warmers. The
next best was the 98 Pratten, of Burwood, slogged
off the North Sydney bowling. Barbour, of Univer-
sity, hacked 71 opposite his name, and Tozer of the
same team carried his bat for the same score.
McLean, of Gordon, made his mark by also carrying
his bat for 60. After these the scores tail off rapidly.
The bowler of the afternoon was Wall, of Balmain,
who slew four Petersham batsmen for 18 runs. Shea,
of Waver ley, got two Sydney wickets for 19 runs,
and so did Davis of the same club. Arnott, of Bal-
main, got three Petersham sticks for 49, and Folkard,
same club, two for 32. If University keeps on as
it has started. Glebe is in a tight place, aVid Pad-
dington’s prospects against Parramatta look fairly
bright. Here endeth the first day!
Charlie Samuels, the aboriginal ped. who
died at Barambah (Q.) last week, was easily the
greatest runner Australia ever produced. A rouse-
about at Dalby discovered the hurriedness of Samuel,
and forthwith launched him on the professional
track. Those were the palmy days of the fleet of
foot, and Samuels was the fleetest of all. He is credited
with having fled over 134 yards in 124 see
yards under “evens” —at Botany in 1888. He made
money by the bushel—for other people—and when he
ceased to wear wings on his lieels the men he made
money for dropped him, and he drifted back to an
aboriginal settlement to end, his days.
• * * *
N.S.W. champion athlete, Temple J.
Wood, showed his soles to some purpose at the East
Sydney sports meeting on Saturday last, when he fled
over 1320 yards in 3min. 19 l-sth sec., thereby
knocking 4 l-10th sec. off R. G. Waddy’s record.
During the season Temple Wood won all the State
championships he felt inclined to rake in, and failed
only when he went for the Australasian cross-country
championship.
Said that Australian amateur cyclist E.
W. Schneider, now in England preparing for an at-
tack on the world’s hour unpaced record, will shortly
join the professionals. The record Schneider is after
belongs to Oscar Egg (what a name!), and stands at
26 miles 466 yards. Another competitor is the crack
English rider, F. H. Grubb (ditto!). Grubb will
make his attempt at Heme Hill track, London ; but
Schneider proposes to cross Over to the United States
and make his little flutter on the famous Buffalo
track.
E. S. Perrett, who finished first in the
Dunlop Gold Cup race, from Camperdown to Mel-
bourne, and was subsequently disqualified for accept-
ing outside pace, is not taking it lying down. First
he appealed to the Victorian Road Race committee,
but the committee blew him out; now he is taking
out an injunction to prevent the Traders’ Road Race
committee distributing the prizes. By the time this
reaches the public the case will be just about reached,
and should prove interesting.
Died at Sydney, last week. Jack Deeble,
a mentor of Australian professional sculling in its
golden age. It was Deeble who dug Bill Beach out
of his seclusion on the N. S. Wales South Coast, and
afterwards joined him in a triumphal .progress
through England. The departed sporting giant was
a prominent supporter of professionalism, and stuck
to it with solid cash. He was one of the few who
left it with clean hands.
* * * *
Some of these “junior” cricketers retain
their _ youth marvellously. “Goldie” Watsford, who
captains West Hawthorn, in the V.J.C.A. competition,
played for South Aus. away back in ’B3, and made
two in the famous match against Victoria, in March
of that year, when George Palmer and Harry Boyle
ran through the side for 23—Palmer five for 16,
Boyle four for six. Watsford’s A ool ' little brace was
nevertheless second-highest score, the evergreen Noel,
who himself retired only the other year, making 18.


for Women
Hi
/
::
gsl
-
The name "Marshall”on every pair of shoes you
wear shows plainly the innateness of feminine
beauty to select footwear, elegant style and grace-
ful solidity.
No shoe was ever made better—few shoes as
good—their honesty has won for them favor in
all lands.
A guarantee with every pair.
Write for New Style Book
MARSHALL SHOE CO. LTD.
Richmond, Vic.
j
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 10th October, 1912.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT.
WARRAH ESTATE
(Near Murrurundi)
MURRURUNDI LAND DISTRICT.
22 FARMS ARE AVAILABLE FOrTeTTLEMENT PURCHASE APPLICATION.
Full particulars, lithographs, application forms, may be obtained at the Information
Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney, or The Crown Land Agent, Murrurundi.
A commission of £lO per farm will be allowed to any private Agent for each suc-
cessful applicant obtained for a vacant farm.
5e.5.
ARTHUR J. HARE, Under-Secretary.
i
© < (O) J (r«
9 A GDI
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE.
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN fi? CO.. P'ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St„ Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
THE FIRST OPEN-AIR
ROOF GARDEN
in the Commonwealth of Australia has now been opened by
MR. G. MATOOREKOS,
Proprietor of the well=known Cafe, 68 and 70 Swanston Street, and Queen’s
Walk, near Collins Street, Melbourne,
For Afternoon Tea, Dinner and Supper.
G. MATOOREKOS, Proprietor.
BE STRONG AND STURDY.
m
Healtli exercises will make you strong: and sturdy, because they
benefit the whole system.
They build up the muscles by correct movements, which en-
sure a vigorous circulation of the blood. And as you know, your
blood is the stream of life —it nourishes and sustains all your
bodily organs.
My postal Course of Health Exercises complies with these, and
all requirements of modern Physical Culture. They’re of such a
nature that you’ll take delight and pleasure in performing them.
Each exercise is a valuable unit of a thorough and compre-
hensive series that cannot fail to give you more energy, better
health, increase your strength, and make you walk, sit, stand
and run in a natural manner. In short, they ensure a continu-
ance of robust health.
Here is a typical report from one of my students :-i-
-“I am progressing nicely. The muscles of my arms,
back, shoulders and legs are starting to stick out very
prominently, and I feel far better in health than I ever
felt in all my life, and this means a lot, seeing that I do
not know what a doctor’s attention is.”
„ J. E., Inglewood, Queensland.
Better health and increased strength are your reward for 15
minutes’ daily exercise of my Postal Course of Health Culture.
That is much for little, isn’t it? It is good ground for your
seeking more information about my methods. Full details as
to fees, etc., are given in my interesting folder, “Physical In-
struction by Post.” There's a copy waiting for you. Will you
kindly write for it?
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
99 Belmont Buildings, Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
yiy
You get more Fuel Miles
out of
SHELL’
than out of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR THUMPER & DODCE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsand Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards. Wicket-keeping Gaunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
it
THE BEST STORIES written in
LONE HAND each month.
Australia appear
Price Sixpence.
iyt
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
If you are a sufferer from Piles, or if you are subject to them occa-
sionally, then you should try Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills, the greatest
of all remedies for internal and external Piles.
Read this letter: —
“I was a sufferer from inward bleeding Piles for six years, ano
during that time had tried many so-called cures, without deriving
any benefit from them. Your Pile Pills were recommended to me.
After using three boxes I am satisfied that they have cured me com-
pletely. I shall always be pleased to recommend them.
“J. W. CLISSOLD, Woy Woy.”
Murphy’s Pile Pills are non-aperient, can be taken with the utmost
safety, give instant relief, and effect a. speedy and permanent cure. They
are sold by all leading chemists and storekeepers. Price, 3s. per box, post
free. Order direct if not obtainable locally. Sole Proprietors: ANDREW
MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
00 (double
Right Made Shoes for Men
The first essential to a satisfactory pair of Shoes is
that they should be COMFORTABLE. Combined
with this, they must be of good appearance, made
in a first-class manner, and of the very best materi-
als. This is the combination of merits which have
made the Rigney Shoes so popular and satisfactory.
The boot illustrated is an American Model, made
from choice Yici Kid.
iryu
Price 2316.
In Velour Calf, 23/6 and 25/-
Also in Shoes, 19/6, 21/- and 22/6.
L Postage 9d. extra.
Write to-day for our Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


WelHmgtoitt Parade,
EAST MELBOURNE
Overlooking
Gardens and
Melbourne
Cricket
Ground.
Most
Sumptuous
Residential
Flats.
if
II
■
Within Five
Minutes o f
the Centre of
the City.
Formerly
Residence of
the late Sir
W.J. Clarke
Full Particulars as to Rentals, Terms, etc,, from the Agents—
BAILLIEU PATTERSON & ALLARD PTY. LTD.,
“ COLLINS HOUSE,” 360-366 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Or from the Manager, MR. C. H. GAMLIN (formerly of the P. & O. Co.), at THE MANSIONS.
Signed Journalism in its Relation to the
Maintenance of the Peace.
The question of signed political articles is
once more in the Parliamentary air, and
last week the S. M. Herald broke loose
with a wild jeremiad on the subject. As a
result of being required to supply the names
of the writers of its leaders and so on, it
foresaw “a shackled press” and “the sign-
manual of class privilege and oppression,”
likewise “a return upon the ages when
license and tyranny masqueraded as free-
dom.” The massacre of Drogheda and other
matters, more shuddersome even than the
Sosh Tiger, the burst marriage bonds, and
the desecrated Australian home (leading
Menaces of half-a-dozen years ago) were
dragged somehow into the discussion. Also,
the following:—
Not thus has the Times attained a forty-thou-
sandth issue, and not thus have the unnumbered
newspapers of the world achieved their authority as
custodians of the public welfare. They [the Labor-
ites] wish to attach to the essential work of com-
ment on public affairs conditions which will hamper
their discussion, and the enlightenment of the people
which has always been the issue of such discussion.
They would shape the press to their own views of its
function.
The Times, a non-party journal, notable for
the heavy temperateness of its language
and a sheet which only started on the broad
road that leads to discredit, if not ruin,
when it printed, however innocently, a
flaming lie, was about the worst example
the Herald could have selected to buttress
its case. We have no daily papers of the
Times stamp in Australia. As a natural
outcome of our imbecile Party Government
system our journals are, every one of them,
violent partisans one way or the other. The
Liberal sheet considers that its mission in
life is to get a Labor Government, if such
exists, out of office in the quickest possible
time, regardless of the fact that it may
stand for some urgent National measure —
Defence, for example—which it alone can
consistently undertake. And the Labor
paper takes a similar view of any conceiv-
able Liberal Administration. For anyone
who stands in the path of such enterprises
no abuse is too violent, no misrepresenta-
tion too glaring. The Herald itself sud-
plied (16/10/’l2) in an article headed “Mr.
Henry Willis and Mr. Wade” a priceless
lesson in regard to the perniciousness of
anonymous journalism. The facts which
led up to the article were (1) that C. G.
Wade decided to take a holiday; (2) that
the Herald sent a reporter to Speaker
Willis (the same Willis who, during the
past 12 months, has been assaulted, howled
at, libelled, called a madman and compared
to Judas Iscariot and other loathly his-
torical personages by the Wade party) with
a request that he would supply his views on
the matter; and (3) that the Herald got
what it asked for. The remarks of AVillis
were notably mild, all things considered.
He observed that “Mr. AVade was acting
wisely in taking a rest.” and referred to the
strain of Parliamentary life. And he
hinted that the departing invalid might not
come back, after his holiday, as leader of
the Opposition. Platitudes both, as every-
one with the remotest knowledge of the
feeling of the N. S. Wales Assembly well
knows. Yet, the Herald was able to in-
duce one of its staff to write of Willis s
conduct in uttering them, in language cal-
culated to fracture the peace in 700 differ-
ent directions. “Hypocritical and offensive
vulgarity,” “a most embittered and venom-
ous personal attack,” “a method of attack
which can only be described as loathsome,”
“conduct so unusual among gentlemen that
they hardly have a name for it,” “infatu-
ated complacency,” “sheer and shameless
bad taste,” “Bottom translated,” “wanton
misrepresentation”—these and a multitude
of other fishwifely and Billingsgate phrases
were spilled on the head of the man whose
whole offence lay in putting the interests
of his State before those of his Party, and
in afterwards checking the efforts of his
former colleagues to paralyse Government
and render Parliament a laughing-stock.
No person of any account could be hired to
write such Billingsgate if he were required,
as a condition of the contract, to sign his
name to the unworthy stuff. Willis ap-
pears to be a placid, law-abiding character.
But it is conceivable that in the heat of
party feeling quite another sort of citizen
might be assailed —the sort that, on ex-
treme provocation, would see red and seek
out the staff of the Herald with a revolver,
and spread death and gore and desolation
and general untidiness through the Hupter-
street establishment. The hardship, so far
as honest journalism is concerned, that is
imposed by the obligation to sign all poli-
tical articles is not considerable enough to
warrant the risking of the life or limb of so
much as one dirty, unpunctual, furtive and
novel-reading office boy. As a matter of
common sense and public welfare, signed
journalism and party political comment
should walk hand in hand. The abolition
of anonymity is the best antidote that has
been thought of, hitherto, to the bane of
Party Government and all the evils that go
therewith.
Simplified Spelling.
The Office Anarchist writes: —
Spelling is a fetich, futile and foolish. The truly
great do not worry about it. Bacon, when he
wanted to sign anything with his well-known nom-
de-plume, spelt “Shakspeare" any old way, accord-
ing to the orthographical capacity of the goose-
quill with which he wrote it. Cromwell spelt
according to his inspiration, and John Churchill
according to his ignorance. The poet of the Sierras,
Joaquin Miller, considered the prudery of the
correct speller the mark of a feeble mind, and left
all such matters to the casual compositor—a charac-
teristic which he shares with Clancy of the Over-
flow. Obviously, spelling is a weary and weepful
business, for the world contains a book entitled
“Spelling without Tears” —note the rarity of the
lachrymose in this connection. “Correct” spelling
was invented bv printers, with a view to the en-
hancement of their calling, according to a similar
diplomacy which impels legal statesmen to frame
Acts of Parliament with a total omission of punctua-
tion, in order to create a professional indisnensa-
bility. “Correct” spelling is absolutely unjustifiable
and unintelligible, for the less the assembled letters
suggest the true sound of a word, the greater the
probability of orthographical accuracy. Man’s
measured span of life, on the conditional purchase
system, is three score and 10 years, though some ojd
liars live to claim a century ; and the whole of this
period, save a short time devoted to teething, is
occupied in learning that “pophthaphthough” does
not spell “potato,” though similar combinations of
letters might lead one easily to suspect that it did;
Correct (spelling is like that kind of greatness which
is thrust upon one; but unlike the kind of greatness
which some achieve. It is harder than original sin,
though original spelling is easy enough. Victorian
Director of Education, Frank Tate, considers that
too much time is wasted by State school children in
this useless quest for letters, that fail to indicate
the words they sound like. He wants to omit the
useless “u” in “honour,” “favour,” and all their
derivatives; to spell such words as “centre,”
“metre,” etc., “center,” “meter,” etc. ; to use “ize”
for “ise” in words like “modernize” ; and ,to spell
“programme,” “plough,” “gaol,” “connection,”
“catalogue,” as “program,” “plow, “jail,” “con-
nexion,” “catalog.” Why not? Of course, a lot
of ignoramuses rushed into print and dehounced the
suggested reforms. The objectors are, of course,
either British by birth or by descent, and the British
are the most crassly stupid fools in Christendom, or
anywhere else. The Briton has no historical sense.
The British youngsters of this generation will grow
to maturity,' believing that the Archangel Michael
rang Adam up on the telephone (“Central: Garden of
Eden —one, please”), and told him to get out; that
the footsteps of the angel were heard treading the
fields of Asphodel per medium of a megaphone ; that
the winged cherubim who formed the Government
House eviction party looked for mankind’s fabled
first parents with a searchlight; and that Eve, hav-
ing packed her travelling trousseau and her latest
spring hats from Paris, bowled out of Paradise in
the smartest of touring motors, Adam seated by her
side, and the Serpent acting as chauffeur. So now,
the fat-headed Briton who objects to simplified spell-
ing, babbles about the orthography of Shaksp'eare
and Milton being good enough for him, and similar
illogical twaddle, based mainly on sheer ignorance,
blustering assumption and bulldQg prejudice. If he
really wants good, cPd English spelling, why does he
not go back to Chaucer or Piers Plowman? Eng-
lish never was spelt, anyhow; it was just jumbled
together by illiterate printers and uneducated type-
setters. The old editions of Shakspeare. Bacon.
Milton and the rest, are full of quaint shots
in the dark as far as spelling is concerned,
and resemble modern editions of the same authors
about as nearly as written script resembles the
printed page. It is to be wished with sincere de-
votion that the Victorian Director of Education may
win in his new crusade, and that he will not there-
upon rest contehted. We want to save educational
time to our. children by establishing phonetic spell-
ing and the metrical system of weights and measures
and monetary denominations.
■ ®
England’s Married Woman’s Property’ Act
says that, although a man has no control
whatever over his wife’s private income and
property, yet he must pay taxes and rates
thereon. There is also a Woman’s Tax-Re-
sisting League, in connection with the suf-
fragette movement, which holds that if
women can’t vote they won’t pay rates and
taxes. Of course, it doesn’t follow that
more than one or two of the members are
ever .likely to be called upon to pay taxes.
However, there happens to be one, a Mrs.
Wilks. She refused to pay tax on her pri-
vate income, and passed the collector on to
her husband. He said he wouldn’t pay the
tax on his wife’s income because he had
nothing to do with it. So the bailiff was
requested to collect as many chairs, pianos,
saucepans and tables as he could conveni-
ently carry to help pay the tax. But
Wilks (male) said the furniture belonged
to his wife; and Wilks (female) said her
husband was responsible for the tax, and she
was blowed if they were going to sell her
furniture to pay her tax that her husband
was responsible for. Wherefore Wilks
(male) was put in gaol till such time as he
pays. If he is ever fortunate enough to
drown his wife and get off, Wilks (male)
will think at least five times before he mar-
ries another member of the Woman’s Tax-
Resisting League.
'
“F. Ckoson” : One wonders at times
whether the stupid Foreign-trade Tories of
Australia and their rabbit-brained followers
know anything of the history of their own
land, brief though it is. It is very well for
Jokook, B. Smith and others to sneer at
Australian manufacturing enterprise and
berate Protection, but there are still living
many persons who remember the awful state
of things in Freetrade Melbourne, small
though it then was, when the alluvial gold-
fields began to be worked out. The city
was crowded with starving families, and men
vainly offered to work for mere “tucker.”
The slump hit the imnorters, too; the auc-
tion rooms were packed with newly-landed
goods sold for a song, while night and day,
at the council’s tip, where Melbourne Uni-
versity now stands, the fires flared, con-
suming stale imported provisions for which
the demand had ceased. It was then that
the people of Geelong and the Age started
the crusade that brought Protection, and
gave the province the recuperative powers
that carried it through the . even worse
slump of the long drought following on the
collapse of the land boom. It may amuse
the leaders of the Australian Women’s
National League to sneer at Protection, but
how little of the article has Australia or
even Victoria ever en.ioyed! Very little;
though that little has done a heap of good.
These Stinking Fish purveyors deride Pro-
tection ! They don’t know what i cal Pro-
tection is.
“Pick” : When the scramble for selection
as the site of Australia’s capital was on,
many places were put forth as the beauty
spot of the only State which was worthy to
hold the Federal city. One of them was
Lake George, situated at the western foot
of the Gourock Range. The lake was then
a presentable sheet of moisture, 22 miles
long and 14 miles wide. On it plied for hire
a small steamboat. From its depths fisher-
men made regular hauls of Murray cod, and
much duck murder was done on its surface.
But Lake George is adjacent to the present
deplorable selection for the site of the con-
tinent’s capital, and suffers the same ever-
recurring periods of drought. Twelve months
ago it was a salt-encrusted plain of glisten-
ing mud, “ponking” noisily with the fester-
ing remains of dead codfish and rotting lake-
weed, and in the summer the illusive mirage
that occasionally appeared over its bed led
many a wayfarer to erroneously describe the
beauties of a lake where lake there was
none. The rains of the recent season, un-
usually wet for this sadly arid region, again
spread nine miles of water over the muddy
plain, but with the advance of summer the
waters are receding at the rate of from four
to six feet a day, and soon the mirage will
be all that is left of Old Damp George once
more. It appears to me that there must
have been, generally, more of mirage than
reality in the choice of Australia’s capital.


m ■
-
' •>
X.
r
i ■ •
m
IK
■
... ■" V
njsMi
i
■
r
V
Bill S IBil
■
fi i ■
WKm
v
' / , -
/ /
I
/
h
l
X
X
tHI
n
,
'' X .
: lJj
■ ;'•
; '.X : XX.- : |
r;i -v ■ |
■>-- ~*r
I
■
m
'
rx
W
■:
M
■
J*- X
2#
X
a
■MM
A Trip That Will Live
Forever in Your Memory.
Other scenes may attract, but the sublime grandeur of the
Valley of the Grose, the majestic Katoomba and Leura Falls, and
the quiet beauty of the Federal Pass will remain in your memory
as long as you live.
Katoomba—a few hours’ run from the City—is the centre of
the Mountain Sights—the inspiration of beautiful mountain
scenery, and crisp, invigorating air, proving a lure to the seeker
after health and rest.
The “CARRIKGTOK,” Katoomba’s finest hotel, is unsurpassed
for comfort and convenience. The service is all that the courteous
attentions of perfectly-trained attendants can make it; a cuisine
equal to the finest hostelries in the land.
. The “CARRINGTON” possesses its own Lighting Plant and
Water Supply, and is sumptuously furnished throughout. A
modern Hydropathic Department is a feature of the “Carrington.”
This is in charge of experts, who are prepared to treat Ladies and
Gentlemen in accordance witli medical instructions.
TARIFF SCALE.
Summer, from November to April—£3/10/- per week, or 12/6 per
day. Winter, from May to October—£3/3/- per week, or 10/-
per day.
VISIT JENOLAN CAVES
by Motor from Katoomba.
A daily service of “Itala” Cars is maintained between
Katoomba and Jenolan Caves. “Itala” Cars are very easy riding
and reliable, and add much to the enjoyment of the trip. Return
fare, £2.
Full particulars from
The City Office of THE “CARRINGTON,”
18 Imperial Arcade, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Thousands of
doctors praise
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
The strength-making powers of
Scott’s Emulsion have gained
for it the highest possible
praise from doctors, nurses
and patients. Experience has
proved
for weakness,
poof QPJietTte,
chest complaints,
for ill-health arising from
general debility—there is no
emulsion nearly so good as
SCOTT’S EMULSION. And
so pure, so palatable is Scott’s
Emulsion that
for men, women
and children
it is equally beneficial - a source of new
strength to all. But be sure you get
SCOTT’S Emulsion. Other kinds may
result in disgust and disappointment.
Therefore, ask only for SCOTT’S
Emulsion and see the trade mark.
kyu
Are you sure YOU
know this trade
mark? Note it now.
See it on the pack-
age you buy—it is
the sign of SCOTT
purity and genuine-
ness.
Of all Chemists and
Medicine Dealers.
HOW “ANTINEURASTHIN”
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
It is, in the first place, essentially a food —not a
drug stimulant.
It is a food that feeds the whole of the nervous
system with those elements the lack of which in the
structural tissues constitutes the neurasthenic con-
dition.
It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully absorbed, thus creating quickly a renewed
mental and physical vigor. This is not mere stimu-
lation, but is really the sensation produced by the
aetual assimilation and storage of those refined ele-
ments necessary to nerve comfort and vigor. This
is not —as in the case of tonics and stimulants —a
mere transient whipping up, but an actual addition
to the nerve structure and nerve strength of the in-
dividual. A free TRIAL
together with pamphlet dealing with Nervous Com-
plaints, and containing analysis of Antineurasthin,
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage, by the Wholesale Agent, H. A. GODDARD,
No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane;
or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street East, Auckland.
SERIAL No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by IT. A. GODDARD,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.
fm
w
Hh
m
QIVEN AWAY.
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black TippeJ
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller's Fer.tlier Siiop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.] [6
kyu
Ever used Ayer’s Hair Vig-
or? Makes the hair soft,
smooth, rich, and greatly
promotes growth. Show for-
mula to your doctor. Does
not color.
The Queen of Table Whalers
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
HMT.!
2MU-
“ABERDEEN”
Do you fully realise the importance
of asking for “Tents,” and all canvas
floods that bear the name “ABER-
DEEN”? This word signifies and
guarantees all that you desire to get. It
has. stood the test of time, and is now
recognised as Australia’s best.
Prices' surprisingly reasonable.
Ask your Storekeeper for “ABER-
DEEN” Tents, Flys, Tarpaulins, Water
Bags, etc., or send direct to
Smith, Copeland 8 Co. Ltd..
204=6 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
AGENCIES:
VICTORIA—J. Bartram & Son, King Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—H. I. H. Ross, Edward Street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA—C. D. Whiting & Co., Adelaide.
TASMANIA—Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, Hobart.
W. AUS.—A. Balharry, Perth.
Australian Car.
A SPECIALLY - DESIGNED model of the famous
15*9 h.p. Arrol-Johnstons —the cars that formed the
ONLY teams to survive in the Grand Prix of 1911 and 1912.
AGENTS: SYDNEY, Eyes & Crowle, Ltd., 225 Clarence Street; MEL-
BOURNE, Essendon Motor Garage, 535 Mount Alexander Road;
ADELAIDE, Murray Ar.ngcr Ltd., 65 Franklin Street ; BRISBANE, Howard
Cycle & Motor Co., 376 Queens Street; PERTH, Perth Motor House, 890 Hay
Street; HOBART, H. C. Heathorn & Co., 31 Campbell Street.
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis,
i U.S.A.
Combination Harness and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing Outfits (power
or foot). Fasily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without
“ CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Sole Australasian Agents,
<
CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY, N.S,W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
[2
CASTRATION
'EASY
m
>A(«
%
Our Emasculator combines best amacican
Ideas with Relsa&fia English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions. Colls,
Bulls, etc
Sharpe's Perfect Emasculator
Crushes* before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible
RAPOD> SAFE SVBERCBFUL
Has just the proper power, and being made of best
Sheffield Steel will give perfect satisfaction for
many years EASY TO (JSC
SHARPE&SHARPE
18 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
ANYWHERE
Satisfaction or Money Back
Write for Knife and Vet List
Veterinary Advice Free
m
i
rymmmm' x
“As Solid as the
Empire itself.”
The SILENT EMPIRE
BIOGRAPH.
BRITISH
MADE.
Silent
Flickerless
Rock Steady
Fireproof
AH Steel Sprockets
Maltese Cross (in oil)
Improved Gate
Enlarged Lamphouse.
Why not Become a Successful Showman ?
We have Complete Outfits, including
gas plant, ready for exhibition from
£45
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE.—FREE.
J e r d a n’s
Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA—
ALEXANDER GUNN & SONS,
236 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
j No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
\ taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ulsterman: Get down to facts: (1)
Ulster returns 33 members, and 16 of them are
Home Rulers. Even Belfast returns one Home
Ruler. The Tory member for Derry was only 105
votes ahead of the Home Rule candidate in a poll
of 4725. And there were quite a number of Ulster
constituencies where, at last election, it wasn’t con-
sidered worth while putting up an anti-Home Rule
candidate. (2) Several of the Home Rule leaders
have been Protestants. Parnell, for one. (3) Your
I theory that it is the “Romish priest” who prevents
Irish industries prospering looks improbable. Bel-
gium is the most intensely Catholic country in
Europe, yet in proportion to its population it is
supposed to lead Europe in manufactures, and is a
1 good second in commerce; (4) If Ireland is Roman
Catholic who is to blame? It used to be the one
Christian country in Europe which refused to
acknowledge either Pope or Patriarch. It preserved
the last traces in Europe of the Church of the
Apostles. And it was given to Catholic England by
a Catholic Pope, in order that the English Catholic
might extirpate heresy. Now, his grievance against
Ireland is that he was too successful. (5) The
causes of the decay of Irish industries are plain
enough. They mostly date from the Reformation time in
England and include: (o) Prohibition of Irish ships
sailing round the Cape of Good Hope or Cape Horn ;
(5) Prohibition of Irish trade with any place except
England; (e) Duties up to 300 per cent, on Irish
goods in England, while English goods entered Ire-
land free; ( d ) Laws to the effect that all Irish coin
should be debased so that an Irish shilling should
be worth only 9d. ; (c) Declaration that all trade in
Ireland should be a monopoly of Englishmen; (/)
Closing of the Irish woollen mills because they “un-
; duly competed” with those of England ; (g) Levy-
! ing of an excise duty of £1500 per acre per
I annum on land used fop the growth of tobacco in
Ireland on the ground that it interfered with the
English tobacco trade with America (this happened
) during last century) ; ( h ) The closing-up, in
Elizabeth’s time, of Irish schools and universities,
and the prohibition of the Irish costume, language
and literature ; (i) The cancelling, also in her time,
of Irish land titles, which amounted to the whole-
sale confiscation of the island; (j) The passing of
an Act, by the Irish Parliament —which, as
Catholics could neither . sit nor vote, consisted of
Anglicans from Dublin or thereabouts, bigots from
Belfast, and nominees and scum from England—of
an Act which declared that any magistrate who ex-
ceeded the law should not be held responsible, but
should be regarded as having acted through his zeal
in the king’s service. Under this law the meanest
Protestant J.P. could hang, flog or mutilate any-
body with imnunity, and this statute drove even
Ulster to rebellion in ’98. Most of these horrors be-
gan with the report of a commissioner in Elizabeth’s
time that it was a shame that most of the wealth
of her Majesty’s realm should be in the hands of a
people who didn’t even speak the English tongue.
Go back to school, Ulsterman!'.... Dispenser: You
want to know “how a pennyless man could coin
money” by starting five (5) weekly papers, the titles
of which you enumerate. Well, the best thing you
can do is to write an immensely successful drama,
and persuade somebody to produce it, and collect
the profits, and then start the papers with the
money. Next best thing is to find a big nugget and
start the papers with the money. Surry Hills (Syd-
ney) would be a good place to search, for no big
nuggets have ever been found there, so all the big
nuggets that were there are still there. A third
device is to bushrange a bank, and establish the
papers with the money. Don’t give your own name
when you bushrange the bank. Call yourself Smith.
....Scrivener: You recall the case of the man who,
being weary of married life, brought a suit for
divorce against himself with his wife as co-respond-
ent. He was the same person who advertised that
he wouldn’t be responsible for his own debts. . . .
Mallet: Re the strange black cat which has de-
scended on you from parts unknown, and “is
affected with an illness, and every second night
wakes up and vomits in your bedroom” ; but which
your wife will not allow you to slay for fear of
spoiling your luck. AVe have no really satisfactory
advice to offer. You appear to have arrived at an
impasse or dead-end. Logic is unavailing in the
case of a superstitious female, or you might put it
to her that Fortune has little worse to offer than a
cat which vomits in one’s bedroom every other night.
You might consult the authorities in such matters
as to how your luck would be affected if you gave
the cat to a friend, or raffled it for a charitable
object, or kept it chained in the back yard. In
the present state of the law it is, of course, impos-
sible to give away or raffle your wife. .. . J.M.: If
you want to make us seethe with rage, all you re-
quire to do is to send a note intimating that you
have posted a story, drawing, cluster of gags or what
not “under separate cover.” In the event of your
desiring to go a step further, and cause us to abso-
lutely. gibber with exasperation, follow the above up
with a second letter enclosing stamp for the return
of the unspecified and mostly unsigned and un-
addressed contribution. Such tips as these are help-
ful to the budding journalist. .. .Amikus: One verse.
Mike: —
Then Huzza Huzza one long loud cheer
Huzza Huzza for a land so deer
loud let your voices ring
singing God save the king
God save our gracious king
and sunny Australia.
It is a neat example of what was known to the
cultured dilettanti of old Persia as the literary
horror. .. .A.S.: “AVashin’ up” moved us to tears.
All the same, it was rejected.,.. .Noto: About the
most imbecile Baby Bonus jape we have, come across
for the past two hours. .. .Shakesburn: No use for
“The Burgular.”. .. .Frank F. H.: You are sen-
tenced to seven days for the drawings, and six
months and a flogging with a feather duster for
the gags. .. . Deeby: You appear to be suffering from
malignant vegetarianism. At any rate, your treatise,
or whatever it is, on the tapeworm is only fit for a
medical journal. AVe have no desire to make our
I readers fly in horror from their wholesome meat. . . .
j Thos. G.: You have given it no title, so we will
christen it: —-
THE POSTPONED TRAGEDY.
“Don’t murder me to-night, Dad !”
Said a Child to its Parient so wild.
. Its Parient then burst into sobs
And said, “No, no my Child!”
He put aside his cruel gun
And the carving knife so bright
Then he said, “I cannot do it now.
I won’t murder you to-night.”
. . . .P.C. (Vic.): No, you don’t!. .. . A.P. (M.L.) :
Your views seem to be all right, though we wouldn’t
swear to it, your handwriting being of the strag-
gling order. The ink, too, appears to be decom-
posed. The one sure thing about the contribution is
that it has the dull, bald look of an ancient parrot.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Frank Badrian: Don’t know whether the drawing
is worse than the gag, or the gag worse than the
drawing, or both a dead heat.... G.B.: Please note
that we could have got you into gaol for trying to
sell us a stolen idea. Don’t you know that the steal-
ing of pictures is just as much a crime as the steal-
ing of j’ewellery or horses ? One of these days we will
prosecute a lot of common swindlers like you... Con
Schneider: You make us tired. If you go on much
further with your wild career you may make your-
self dead Bro: It isn’t any use to us, but next
time you send a drawing please mention your age.
If you are a very young flapper and just beginning
an art career, then all you want is training. If
you are a married lady with a bank account and a
family and just ending an art career the position is
hardlv the same.... John P.D.: Heavy jest....
J.M.P.: There is no older joke out of Sodom and
Gomorrah.... Cygnet: Both the ladies look like per-
sons with a past. It isn’t good enough, but it is
very good, considering vour youth, age and lack of
training AV. Nottle: Don’t care much for the
pictures, and both the gags are as old as Dagon’s
stomach.


Public Opinion and
Beale High-grade Pianos.
The great majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are constantly receiving letters from our
customers praising the Beale High-Grade Pianos. Our instruments are in use in every part of Australia; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New
Caledonia, Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the Continent of Europe; and everywhere they give the same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. FRED L. GOODMAN, Mascotte, Hardy
Street, Ashfield: —
“Splendid, and the tone is perfect. Pro-
fessional musicians have highly commended
it. You are quite at liberty to refer any in-
tending purchaser, desirous of independent
testimony, to me.”
Mr. WALTER BAXTER, Sen., Albert Street,
Wickham: —
“Entire satisfaction. Keeping up its splen-
did reputation.”
Mr. RAYMOND WALKER, Coolalie:—
“Very pleased with piano in every way.
Neighbors admire very much.”
Mrs. T. A. HAYNES, Alandale, Cockamid-
gera:—-
“Very much pleased with piano. Entire
satisfaction in every way.”
Mr. F. WELLS, Wattamolla, Berry:—
“Piano gives every satisfaction. Neighbors
and friends all speak of it in the highest
terms.”
Mr. F. A. McGINLEY, Sale Street, Orange:—
“May mention that we are thoroughly
pleased with the instrument. Beautiful rich
tone.”
The PRINCIPAL, Cook’s Hill Girls’ Superior
Public School, Newcastle: —
“The two Upright Grand Pianos supplied
to the school four years ago have been in con-
stant use. They have given entire satisfac-
tion, and are well adapted for school pur-
poses. The tone is sweet and mellow, and the
pitch is fully maintained, necessitating little
attention in the way of tuning.”
Mrs. GRACE E. BROOKS, Yetman, via In-
verell:—
“Very pleased with the piano. Splendid in-
strument, with a lovely tone.”
Mr. FRANK BELFORD, Hon. Sec. Comboyne
Union Hall Trustees, Comboyne:—
“Pleased to say piano purchased from you
for the hall is giving every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mr. N. GOODFELLOW, Mount View, Mus-
grave Road, Red Hill:—
“Very pleased with the piano. Tone is ex-
cellent, and remains in tune wonderfully
well.”
Mrs. M. M. MARKS, Clifton Station, Mor-
ven:—
“Piano is excellent, and has stood this
climate exceptionally well. Has only needed
tuning once since I got it.”
Mr. J. PIDGEON, Ivlienton, Crow’s Nest line,
via Toowoomba
“Should like to say that I am very pleased
with the piano. Tone is really beautiful, and
seems to improve with use.”
Mrs. M. CARTER, Fernberg Road, Rasalie: —
“Satisfied with the piano in every way.”
Dr. L. M. McKILLOP, Blackall (Q.)
“It is undoubtedly a magnificent instru-
ment, and your firm is to be congratulated
upon being able to turn out such splendid
work.”
Mr. W. H. SIMPSON, Huelva, Gilliatt:—
“Although this is a very trying climate for
pianos, my Beale is as good as the day it
arrived.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. 11. BAYNE, Carnavon Street, Auburn:
“A superb instrument with a magnificent
tone. Friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Ruther-
glen *
“The piano has given me entire satisfac-
tion.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamil-
ton: —
“Will never cease recommending your
pianos, as I think so highly of them. Mine
has given nothing but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Iverang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
, Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Co-
burg :
“Must say that everyone who has been to
my place has nothing but praise for the
piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Hough-
ton
“Piano, which I have had for three years,
has been in constant use, and tone is gs good
as when I got it. Pianists often remark on
its great purity of tone.”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:
“Must express my satisfaction with your
beautiful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mr. JOHN 0. WHITEMORE, Dunoon, Victor
Harbor: —
“Much pleased with the instrument in
every way, and gratified with the opinions of
several friends who are professional musi-
cians.” .
Mrs. ROSE A. HUNTER, Fairview, Eu-
drfnda:—
“May say that I am more than pleased
with the piano.”
Mr. WILLIAM J. HOCKING, Kingston:—
“Everyone agrees that it is a splendid in-
strument.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECK, Katanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased
with the Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS, York :
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling
Street, Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia: —
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. W. H. BROWN, Kalgoorlie:—
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much
better than I expected.”
TASMANIA 8 NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. C. J. I-lINE, 28 Hillside Crescent, Laun-
ceston :
“Instrument is all that could be desired.”
Mrs. J. ANDERSON, 19 Burnett Street,
Hobart: —
“Can highly recommend to anyone re-
quiring a first-class piano.”
Mrs. J. HARVEY, Hamilton:—
“Excellent piano. Many have expressed
their delight at hearing an instrument with
so mellow a tone.”
Mr. A. O. WOODS, Liverpool Street, Hobart:
“Tone is even better than when we first got
it. Can recommend strongly.”
Mr. EDMUND ANSCOMBE, 134 Princess
. Street, Dunedin, New Zealand: —
“All who have tried it have expressed
themselves as being delighted with its beau-
tiful tone and appearance.”
We have literally thousands more
such testimonials, from almost every
part of the world. The immense suc-
cess attained by the Beale Pianos is
due solely to their high-grade quality.
Prom the very first we have given our
utmost endeavor to turn out only thor-
oughly reliable, soundly constructed
pianos, embodying the very best musi-
cal qualities. We have created a won-
derful factory organisation, and we
pay the best brains and the best skill,
so as to ensure a perfect result. We
realise that an Australian-made piano
is subjected to much closer scrutiny
in Australia than any imported piano,
and therefore we make—we are
compelled to make —our pianos much
better than those of our competitors.
At the same time, by making pianos
in Australia, we are in the position to
make them much better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Any competent
cabinetmaker will tell you that timber
seasoned in the cold, damp climate of
Europe and America cannot be ex-
pected to withstand Australian ex-
tremes of dry heat as well as timber
which is seasoned in this climate. This
is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why
so many foreign pianos develop cracked
sounding-boards, split tuning-systems
and faulty casework soon after arrival
in this country. But no man can say
he ever saw a Beale piano with a
cracked sounding-board. We abso-
lutely guarantee that the sounding-
boards of Beale Pianos will never
crack in any climate, because our spe-
cial system of construction renders
cracking an impossibility, at the same
time that it greatly enhances the tonal
qualities of the instrument. Beale
Pianos contain the only practical steel
tuning-system in the world—-so there
can be no question of splitting of the
wrest-plank. And then our patented
system of cross-plied woodwork en-
sures permanence for the outside case
of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High-Grade Piano.
We have always On hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation whatever. You suit yourself entirely as
whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be pleased to send post free.
BEALE
CO. LTD
MAKERS OF
BEA EE HIGH-GRADE PI A NOS
“The Utmost Care irv the Smallest Details.**
CARL VADER PIANOS.
Prices: £.4-9, 55, 60, 65. 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


YOU GET BEAUTY, VARIETY, AND QUALITY
A. SAUNDERS
£B/10/-
loot Gold, set Diamonds and Tour-
malines,
Never before were our Jewellery Designs quite so lovely, so rare and exclusive
as NOW. We ask YOU to send for our free Catolog. It contains over Two
Thousand illustrations of Delightful Ideas. THE BOOK IS FREE.
£4/10/-
9ct Gold-chas-
ed Curb BRA-
-LET, Safety
chain attached.
25/.
Solid Gold EAR-
-11 I N G S .set
Pearls and Aqua-
marines.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bles, or Sap-
phires.
17/e
loct Gold,
set pure
white
Pearls.
k
£4/10/.
9ct Gold, Heavy “Trace” MUFF-
CHAIN, £4/10/, £5/10/.
123/6-
Set Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Pearls
and Red or Blue Stones or Tur-
quoise.
12/6
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
£2.
Ladies’ Gold Open Face
Keyless WATCH, Fancy
Dial, perfectly timed and
adjusted; guaranteed 2
years’ free repairs.
IS£T£> ISickel Open Face Keyless
TIMEKEEPER, full-jewelled, with
adjusted Balance, Non-magnetic
Spring, Dust and Water proof Cases,
rate, reliable, 20/; guaranteed one
free repairs.
Lever
patent
Time
aceu-
year’s
20/.
20/.
10/6
9ct Gold
CHARM, set
Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones.
£3-
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamond.
jk
£7/15/.
£7/15/.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and
Tourmalines or Rubies.
15ct Gold WED-
DING RING,
15/; 18ct Gold,
12/6
9ct Gold SEAL PEN-
DANT, Amethyst or
Topaz.
£lO-
18ct Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Rubies.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
£22
lO
, set Diamonds
Tourmalines.
Gold
15ct
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
21/.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Green
Tourmalines or Rubies.
37/6
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
35/-'
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, Safety Chain
attached.
8
m
£4/4/-
Ladies’ Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet WATCH,
Full-jewelled, 3-plate, Compensation Balance, strong,
Keyless Works.
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6; 14ct.
Gold Filled, 15/, 20/, 25/; 9ct. Gold, 55/, 60/, 70/.
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/;
9ct. Gold, 60/, 65/, VO/, 80/, 90/, £5.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds, Pink Tourma-
lines, and Peridot.
9ct Gold
CHARM, richly
embossed.
£lO
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamonds.
£lO
18ct Gold, set
pure double-
cut Diamonds.
2z/6-
15ct Gold,
set pure
')ct Gold CROSS,
nicely chased.
9ct Gold Fancy-
Basket Pattern
BRACELET,
strong Safety
chain attached.
Oct Gold LINKS; 15ct
Gold LINKS, 40/.
9ct Gold Bird and Spray BROOCH,
Pearl set Bird.
£5/10/-
15ct Gold, set 11 Diamonds, 1 Pink,
and 1 Green Tourmaline.
18ct Gold, set
6 pure double-
cut Diamonds,
£4/10/-
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Ruby.
20/
9ct Gold BROOCH, set
Pearls and Amethysts.
10A
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, hand chased, 10/;
Gold Filled, 22/6 •
27/6
15ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Dia-
mond and 2 rubies or Sapphires.
32/6
9et Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Turquoise.
50/.
V
50/.
Gent.’s Patent 10 years’ guaranteed gold-
cased Hunting Keyless Waltham WATCH,
full-jewelled Compensation Balance, ac-
curate, reliable,
50/-
Guaranteed 3 years’ free repairs.
SYDNEY’S
LEADING
J EV/ELLER
□
□
fi
n
IKI
BQT, 809, 811,813, 615. Bf 7, GEORGE ST f Opposite Railway Station) SVDNEV N.S.W.
SILVE
MITM
O
T.
«
©
a
ER
CLO


HAPPY
HOMES
Many homes have been made happier by the
Edison Phonograph.
It is the greatest of all entertainers. In
fact, it is all entertainers combined in
one. Famous singers, instrumentalists,
comedians, bands and monologue artists
are all available to the owner of an Edison
Phonograph. It is ready When you are
ready, and will stop when you want it to
stop. It cheers the churlish, enlivens the
dull, amuses the most unresponsive, and
makes happier those who are already happy.
Ediso-n Phonographs and Records are sold
everywhere in Australasia. Write to us
direct for latest lists, and address of the
nearest dealer.
THE EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
t
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by alf Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Vddresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agnita for Australia.
ITHE WONDERFUL WIZARD’S CARDS
yt
A Full Pack oi S 3
best quality round-corner
squeezers, which, besides
playing any card game,
can be used to perform
a dozen surprising
tricks. No sleight
oi hand, no palming;
the cards do the
tricks. You can sepa-
rate reds from blacks
blindfolded, cut pack at
any selected card, call
card after card and draw
llhem a* called, and manv othei amazing (eats fully e*-|
(plained in Book of Directions. Price 3/6, carriage paid.
iThe Union Co., 299 Elizabeth Stn-i, Melbourne. |
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words andmanners
that win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will
supply the art. It considers the whole subject from
the time you meet until you two are one. Valuable
chapters about dress, personal appearance and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions r f
curious love letters & FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits
in prose and poetry that you can find daily use for.
2/6 posted will bring the book, and incidentally, hap-
piness with the one you love. AN GLO- AMERICAN
PUB. CO., Waterloo Ch’mb’s, Geo-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
u yt
Six' Lauder Brunton’a
Snake Bite Lancet and Cure
A Simple and Practical Reriiedjr
NEVER FAILS WHEN PROMPTLY USED'
Only One Shilling
Carry it in your vest pocket ready for instant use
and you need fear no snake, however deadly. Sir
Lander Brunton, the famous Royal Physician,
vouches for the genuineness of this treatment, that
has saved hundreds Of lives every year
in India from cobra and karait venom. The com*
plete outfit is only 2 x / 2 inches long and about as
thick as a pencil. Full printed directions with
each Lancet. Send Postal Note for to
The Union Co. v 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Elects
OCKET,
ùrt
u
Bert "BULLS-EYE” ELECTRIC POCKET LAMP
with latest iapmed cell. PRICE 5/-, post free anywhere. Press the
button and a Brilliant light is immediately obtained. Fits hand and pocket.
Extra cells. 1/9; post free. Send postal note (mentioning this paper) to:
STAR NOVELTY C0.,229 Collins St.,Melbourne
mm
yJ/rM/S&A
y.+ty.'-:
ppp
■
fi
/
mvr
mmm
s
WM
m
m
< t
■m
iiSSi
IN THE COUNTRY HOME—
“His Master’s Voice”
GRAMOPHONE
bridges the great gap which lies between
music-lovers and their ideals.
It brings the world’s best music TO you —beautiful operatic arias,
classic orchestral symphonies, stirring band music, and the most
entertaining and enjoyable vocal masterpieces.
In the home at night it will help you to forget the worries that
are yours by day.
The shortage of the wool clip—the smallness of the wheat yield
and other troubles will vanish under the subtle influence of the
entertainment which this wonderful instrument provides.
“His Master’s Voice” Gramophone is a treasury of musical enter-
tainment —it is a musician that NEVER tires!
Hear this superior instrument, and “His Master’s Voice” Records,
at the nearest accredited dealers.
Catalogues and lists of records free from
THE GRAMOPHONE GO. LTD.,
103 Pitt Street, Sydney*
MR. MKAWBER ON FOUNTAIN PENS.
(Loquitur)
"On the one hand, we have leakiness, blottiness, scratchiness.
Result— Misery ! On the other, cleanliness, swiftness, lightness.
Result—Happiness by using the Onoto.”
[The above was drawn by a famous artist after using the Onoto, the safety
fountain pen that fills itself in a flash. He paid 12/- for the pen, and charged
us six guineas for the sketch. Readers will be glad to know that the Onoto is
made in England by British labour. ]
Booklet about it free from the makers, Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
168 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian representative, Norman
Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
The Onoto can be obtained from all leading stationers and stores at 12/-
and upwards for larger sizes.
THE 10NE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in brackets are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
Narrative of the Visit to India of their
Majesties King George V. and Queen
Mary, and of the Coronation Durtar
held at Delhi, 12th December, 1911.
By the Hon. John Fortescue. With 32
Illustrations. Bvo. 10/6 net. (12/0).
•.'This work constitutes the official record of the
visit and Durbar.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA. By BALD-
WIN SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A.,
F.R.S., and F. J. GILLEN, Special
Magistrate and Sub-Protector of
Aborigines for South Australia. With
Colored and other Illustrations and
Maps. In 2 Vols. Bvo. 21s. net.
(25.)
The Athenaeum.— -“Written in a fine, fresh
style, redolent of colonial heartiness, and well
designed to portray a life in the open, amid
simple conditions and wide spaces.... The book
teems with illustrations which, without any
slight to the letterpress, may be said to afford
an even better idea of these people, whose chief
mode of self-expression is the dance.”
AN AUSTRALIAN NATIVE’S
STANDPOINT. Addresses by
WILL. J. SOWDEN. Editor of the
Registeb, Adelaide, Ex-Chief Presi-
dent for Five Years of the Australian
Natives’ Association, etc. Extra
crown Bvo. ss. net. (65.)
PRINCIPLES OF AUSTRALIAN
AGRICULTURE. By W. CATTON
GRASBY, F.L.S., Lecturer on Agri-
culture and Fruit Growing, Perth
Technical School. Fully Illustrated.
Crown Bvo. 4s. 6d.
The West Australian. —“ Likely to make ap-
peal to a very wide circle of readers. .. .Its
statements of fact are characterised by a simple
directness and clarity that cannot be too highly
commended in a text-book of the kind.”
A TRAMP’S SKETCHES, By
STEPHEN GRAHAM, Author of
“Undiscovered Russia.” With Fron-
tispiece. Extra crown Bvo. ss. net.
(65.)
A description in poetical prose of the author’s
tramp across Russia, and thence with the
pilgrims to Jerusalem.
COLONIAL LIBRARY.
PAPER COVERS - - 2/6 each.
CLOTH BOARDS - - 3/6 each.
NEW VOLUMES.
599 MARRIAGE. By H. G. WELLS,
Author of “Tono-Bungay,” etc.
Country Life. —“As a novel it is a fine
piece of work; as an analysis of present-day
social conditions it is a masterpiece. It is the
novel of the Season.”
614 MR S. LANCELOT. By
MAURICE HEWLETT, Author of
“The Forest Lovers,” etc.
Standard. —“ Mr. Hewlett has probably never
drawn three portraits more incisively and bril-
liantly complete than the portraits of the Duke,
Mrs. Lancelot, and Lancelot.”
616 THE CROCK OF GOLD. By
JAMES STEPHENS, Author of “The
Charwoman’s Daughter.”
* * A story of the open air, of deep forests,
of rock-strewn pastures, and mountain tops;
and, though the human element is not absent, it
deals chiefly with the fairy-folk of old Ireland,
with the god Pan, and the great Angus Og.
617 THE GRIP OF LIFE. Bv AG-
NES and EGERTON CASTLE,
Authors of “Rose of the World,” etc.
615 THE REEF. By EDITH WHAR-
TON, Author of “The House of
Mirth,” etc.
The subject of Mrs. Wharton’s new novel is
a sentimental drama between four Americans
lining in France.
618 ONE WOMAN’S LIFE. By
ROBERT HERRICK, Author of
Together,” “The Healer,” etc.
619 THE MAGIC WORLD: A Book
for the Young. By E. NESBIT.
Author of “The Magic City,” etc.
With Illustrations.
610 VAN CLEVE. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “Nathan Burke,”
etc.
A Complete Catalogue of McMillan's
Colonial Library will be sent on appli-
cation.
MACMILLAN 8 CO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


CobberMouth Organs
ca
m* cs eh rra ta ra is ca ggg
No. 1. — The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case 3/“
No. 2. — The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 27-
No. 3. —The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/G
No. 4. — Thp Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box .1/-
Sold by all Stores.
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A. JJ. Beal, East St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, Raunceston ;
G. W. Ryan, 43 Bmtrke St., Melbourne;
Optical & Photo Supplies Co.,
Hay St., Perth.
HAVE you a bad leg
with Wounds that discharge or otherwise,
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that.when you press your linger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison which
defies all the remedies you have tried. Per-
haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored, or there
may be wounds; the disease, if allowed to
continue, will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hos-
pitals, and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not, for I can cure you. I do not say per-
haps, but I will. Because others have failed
is no reason I should. Send to the Drug
Stores for a box of
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS
which has never failed to cure, the worst
cases of Bad Legs, Ulcerated Joints, Poisoned
Hands, Injured Knees, Bites, Carbuncles,
etc. ! Prepared by ALBERT, Albert House,
73 Earringdon Street, London, England.
*
AKABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for
Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, 1/- and 2/6.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410).
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY'S, : ALL CHEMISTS, \V.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
The First Successful
SELF-FILLING
FOUNTAIN PEN.
Always the Leader—without a Peer.
lAAl
The “A. A.” Self-filling Foun-
tain Pen, for which there is no
substitute.
Its self-filling feature is exclu-
sive. Filled by simply twisting
the button, holding the pen in
the ink, and, by a revei'se twist,
the pen is filled.
Every pen guaranteed against
leakage and structurally perfect.
Fitted with 14et. gold pens, any
style or s ze, plain black, chased
or mottled holders or mounted in
sterling l silver fipgree, gold filled
and mother of pearl.
The “A. A.” Clip, our latest
achievement, excels by far any foun-
tain pen clip yet produced. Made
in one piece of German Silver,
Sterling Silver, Gold Filled and
Solid 14ct. Gold. It holds per-
fectly firm and can’ be attached
almost instantly.
Tf you eannot secure “The
Modern ” Automatic Self-
Filling- Fountain Pen with
the 1, A.A.” Clip at your store,
write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS g CO.
PTY., LTD.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne,
Sole Aeents and suppliers to the
trade for Australasia and New
Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO.
ytjut
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
mfj
Each Capsule hears the name HD®“
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemists.
Stewart Dawson High-Grade Watches
For 41 years we have been supplying the public with High-grade Watches, and the superiority of our
goods has inspired that public confidence which has built our great business. We guarantee the
satisfactory performance of all our watches, provided they are fairly used, and are always placed in
our hands for cleaning and attention, or we will refund your money in full, if dissatisfied after a
month’s trial. We pay the postage on all goods. Write for Illustrated Watch Catalogue.
Latest Improved English Lever Watch; Solid Silver Case.
A thoroughly reliable Watch, with f-plate movement, exposed
winding wheels, 7 jewels, Brequet hair spring, safety pinion,
non-magnetic.
In 2oz. English Hall Marked Solid Silver, Engine-turned
Case. Price £2/10/-
,u.
%
I
Highly-finished S. D. & Co. Demi-Hunting
Keyless English Lever Watch. Having one
of our latest f-plate Lever movements, we can
honestly 'recommend it for town wear.
In Gold-filled Cases, and guaranteed to
wear for 10 years. Price £3
For 20 years. Price £4/10/-
Plain Solid Silver Case. Price .... 55/-
Lady’s Gold “Waltham” Keyless
Lever Watch. Made to our order
by the Waltham Company. The
movements are f-plate, fully
jewelled, compensation balance,
Briquet hair spring, with perfect
keyless winding. Fitted in hand-
somely engraved cases, various de-
signs.
In lOct. Gold. Price, £7/10/-
In 14ct. Gold. 'Price, £9/10/-
In 18ct. Gold. Price, £lO/10/-
These watches are thoroughly
timed and tested before leaving the
factory.
Lady’s High-grade Keyless Gold English
Lever AVatch, made by Rotberhams, London.
The movement is f-plate, fully jewelled, com-
pensation balance, with Brequet hair spring
fitted.
In Dust-proof plain 18ct. Gold Case.
Brice, £l6
In 9ct. Gold Case. Price .. £ll/10/-
Perfect Timekeepers.
Lady’s X 4ct. Gold Keyless Hunt-
ing-cased Watch, suitable for
young ladies. Reliable jewelled
movement—exquisitely • engraved,'
solid 14ct. Gold Oases —strong key-
less work, and altogether is a
sound and serviceable watch.
, Price, £4/10/-
In Solid Silver Case.
Price, 37/6
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
(Australia) LIMITED,
Strand Corner, 412 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
Highly-finished S. D. & Co. English Lever Watch, in Gold-
filled Cases. This is a f-plate English Lever movement, with
1 Ruby Jewels, compensation balance, Brequet hair spring,
highly-polished, exposed, steel winding wheels and ..safety
pinion, fitted in an English-made Gold-filled' case, which we
.guarantee to wear for 20 years.
In Hunting Engine-turned Case. Price £4
Open Face 757-
In 10 year Gold-filled Case, open face. Price 47/6
In 10 year Gold-filled Case, Hunting. Price .... 50/-
Highly-finished S. D. & Co. Latest Improved
English Lever Watch. Dust-proof Case. Be-
injr a |-plate, compensation balance, Brequet
hair spring, non-magnetie, with highly-polished
exposed winding wheels and safety pinion,
makes it a reliable timekeeper.
Open Face, with Solid Silver Engine-turned
Case. Price 37/6
In Plain Oxidised Steel Case. Price, 307-
In Plain Hunting Case. Price .... 357-
“Locust”: We Australians are a poor,
unemotional, undemonstrative, undramatic
crowd compared with some nations like the
Italians and the natives of the United
States. Our law trials are perfectly stodgy
and unsensational; and no cinematograph
man would waste liis time taking a picture
in one of our law courts. Asa contrast,
look at the proceedings at the close of the
trial in Los Angeles (Cal.) of Attorney
Darrow, of Chicago, on a charge of
bribing a juryman in the Macnamara
murder trial. He was acquitted. Then
the melodrama began. First, spon-
taneous applause in the court; (2; a prem-
ature rush of Harrow’s friends, stopped by
the court bailiffs; (3) another round of
applause when the Judge discharged the
jury; (4) Darrow rushed to thank the jury,
and two of them “threw their arms round
him and embraced him, patted his back, and
declared it was the happiest day of their
lives”; (5) Darrow’s wife got in some fine
dramatic work. Then (6), and last, the
Judge—are you noticing?—the Judge who
tried him, rushed up and joined in the
chorus with the words: “Hundreds of
thousands of hallelujahs will go up from
as many throats when they hear of this!”
This was carefully prepared, as shown by
the detail “from as many throats” (the
Judge may be back at the Bar one of these
days, as he is only elected for a term, so
he has to advertise while he can). Now, in
Australia our highly developed sense of
humor puts us out of all this sort of stuff.
Proceedings like the above on our side
wouldn’t get far before everyone would be
laughing instead of singing hallelujahs with
as many throats. And they wonder why
Australians go to London and New York
for their melodramas!
“When is a man drunk?” was gravely
discussed in a Melbourne court the other
day. “After a public banquet,” said one
expert.
Burglars and housebreakers seem to have
had their very best time in Victoria three
years ago. During 1909 only 25 of Them
were convicted, as against 75 and 60 in the
two years following. But the worsenbss of
the police record in 1909 doesn’t alter the
fact that it is shockingly bad to-day. In
two decades the number of persons con-
victed of various offences has dropped from
3035 to 978, and the most appalling drops
are in burglary, housebreaking, assaults,
robbery, larceny and stealing from the per-
son. In 1891 there were 80 convictions for
robbery, and in 1911 the number had dimin-
ished to 11, which suggests that arrests for
this popular offence will presently cease to
be in Victoria. As for the argument, that
the reduction in the prison population
means a corresponding decrease in crimin-
ality, it can be dismissed with scorn. Pro-
bably as many crimes were reported to the
police last year as in 1891, when the popu-
lation pf Victoria was considerably smaller,
but the proportion of captures by the police
has diminished. The 68 per cent, difference
is only partly accounted for by the First
Offenders Act, which keeps a number of
harmless persons out of the gaol where they
formerly would have been converted into
first-class criminals. Policemen in Victoria
these times, and especially in Melbourne, ate-
not thief catchers. They want inclination,
or brains, to do things. Attention is drawn
only to their incapacity when sensational
crimes happen. It must be that they get
less information than of yore, or else they
keep most of it to themselves. Bodies have
not ceased to be found dead under suspicious
circumstances, yet the number of convic-
tions on the murder charge has dwindled
from 34 to four in 20 years. In 1909 only
one person was gaoled for murder, and, see-
ing that the intake of burglars also was ridi-
culously small, it seems that the Force was
exceptionally drowsy in that particular year.
Korea, the country that didn’t think it
worth while to learn to shoot that it might
keep a show of independence, is an excellent
place not to live in these days. The Jap,
who has no designs on Australia —please
note that a very few years ago he had none
on Korea—has been trying to extort confes-
sions from 125 persons alleged to have
plotted, with the assistance of certain Amer-
ican missionaries, to blow up, puncture or
otherwise injure the Governor-General. The
New York Herald’s Seoul correspondent
has been giving an outline of the Jap’s pro-
cedure in the torture chamber. One prisoner
was tormented for more than a month by
the most devilish methods. Others were
beaten into insensibility and trussed-up in
such a way that with returning conscious-
ness every bruised and broken muscle might
endure the greatest possible strain. One
ruin from the chamber of inquisition, who
had been interrogated about having in his
possession certain pistols, gave the follow-
ing account of his “confession” :
When questioned, I first answered, “No!” which is
the .truth. Immediately I was tortured again and ques-
tioned, and unable any longer to bear the torture
I said I had one hundred. The examiner said, “You
scoundrel; that is too many.” I said, “Well, it
was 15,” but that did not suit him. “Don’t you
know that is not enough? Now, wasn’t it 27?” I
answered with all haste, “Yes, 27,” That is the
reason I admitted having pistols, though it was
untrue.
The incidents recorded didn’t occur in Par-
ramatta, nor yet at Rockhampton, nor even
in the Northern Territory, but they are
worth noting by persons who have conscien-
tious scruples against defending their coun-
try, and who say that in time of need, the
Lord will provide, or words to that effect.
“Die Mihi” complains :
How is it there are so few native-born Australians
in the Federal or State Cabinets? Out of 13 Federal
Ministers only three were born in ' Australia. In the
Vic. State Ministry only five out of 12 are Aus-
tralian-born. What is the reason? Has the Austra-
lian no talent for politics or for leading men ? Is he
too honest, or too rigid in his ethical ideas? Can’t
he get into Parliament, or is he too busy to try?
Out of 65 members of the Victorian State Assembly
only 21 are native-born. And most of the other 41
members are elderly. Ten are, over 70, and five have
passed 80. It can’t be altogether good to have so
few young men and so few sons of the soil in Par-
liament. Old age usually stands for conservatism,
and this country cannot do with more than a mere
leaven of the stand-still-and-hold-fast philosophy in
its public affairs. As an Australian, my idea is that
the electors, other things being equal, should favor
the young candidate, because our country needs vigor
and energy more than good advice. Also, it badly
needs fighters.


W
mmm
m
&■■
m
1
1
mmmmm
The Vest PocKet
KODAK
Makes Pictures Like This.
The small inset picture (size Jf6in. x is the actual size of the
photograph taken by the Vest Pocket Kodak —while the bigger one
shows the possibilities of enlargement. You can judge its quality, even
with the disadvantage of the coarse half-tone screen, the block being
made for use in a daily paper.
The Vest Pocket Kodak is a miniature Kodak—so small and dainty that
it will slip easily into the waistcoat pocket; so simple that the merest
novice can make capital little pictures with it at the first attempt; so
efficient that the most critical and experienced
amateur will find pleasure in its use.
The Vest Pocket Kodak is fitted with a care-
fully selected Lens, Kodak Ball-bearing Shutter,
Brilliant Reversible Finder, and an Auto-time
Scale. Loads in daylight with Kodak Film for
eight exposures. Takes pictures x
Price, 35/- Films, eight exposures, 1/3 each.
Descriptive booklet free.
j
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
370 George Street, Sydney. “The BlocK,” 284 Collins
Street, Melbourne. 37 Randle Street, Adelaide. 78-80
Queen Street, Brisbane. Rutbven Street, Toowoomba.
Flinders Street, Townsville. 364 Argent Street, Brohen
Hill. Wellington and AucKland, N.Z.
This self-stropping Safety Razor
is an investment —it shaves clean,
lasts a lifetime, and saves con-
stant expense for new blades.
Th<
Tuto&irop
K SAFETY 1
RAZOR
takes 12 seconds to strop and is as easy to clean.
There is nothing to take apart, you cannot strop
it wrongly, and it will give you the same smooth
velvet shave every morning of the year.
• Standard Set. .
In handsome ' velvet-lined
leather-covered case, as illus-
trated. Contains quadruple
silver-plated self-stroppirg
razor, one dozen blades, and
first quality horsehide strop, complete.
Price in Australia, 22/e
Price in New Zealand, 25-
Of all High-class Dealers
. throxighcut the World.
Illustrated Descri% t/itn Free.
Sole De[ ot for Australasia :
Partridge, Abercrcmby, Ltd.,
York Chambers,
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. Bex ICC 3.
gj
r*
w
W
Jm
mm muML mjimmim m mMumiunmi
fin
m
m
it
m
HI
ill
K
I
m
4
2
7!
iff!®!
11l
MM M
Ju
Self-Loading Shotgun I
12 GAUGE, MODEL 1911
The Winchester Self-Loading Shotgun has all the good
points of other r.eccil-operated shotguns and also many
distinctive and exc’usive features which sportsmen have
been quick to appreciate and endorse. Among them are
Nickel steel construction throughout; a receiver made
with the Winchester patented “Bump of Strength”
which gives the gun surpassing strength and safety; di-
vided iecoil, which minimizes the “kick” to the Lst de-
gree; and a reloading system which requires no read-
justment for different loads. The Winchester Self-Loader
will shoot any standard load from a “Blank” to the
heaviest with certainty and safety, without tinkering the
action. Also it is a two-part take-down without any
loose parts. These are only a few of the many good
points about this gun. To fully appreciate its sup: riority,
you should see it. Call at your dealers and look at one.
IT WORKS WRIT WITH ALL LOADS '


HORSESHOE
SALMON
You have no idea of the number of wholesome,
appetising dishes that can be made from Horseshoe
Salmon. Each dish is most deliciously tempting,
and, moreover, can be prepared in a moment.
Stipulate “ Horseshoe ” on your grocery order.
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
APPLICATIONS are invited from Artists
for permanent positions in India,
with good prospects. Applicants should
have a thorough knowledge of all the de-
partments of COMMERCIAL DRAWING,
both for press advertisements and for high-
class illustrations. Full particulars of ex-
perience, with specimens of work, should be
mailed to the General Manager. ALLIANCE
ADVERTISING ASSOCIATION, LTD.,
12 Dalhousie Square, Calcutta, India.
Missing Friends.
PATRICK McDONOUGH, son of John
McDonough, late Cranbourne, com-
municate with Curator of Estates of de-
ceased persons, Melbourne. He will hear
something to his advantage.
A
S
siiil
m
(fan
W
m
1
The
Present Problem
Solved
You can make selection in your own
home in comfort from our
XMAS
TOY & GIFT BOOK
Let us send you a copy—Free —To-day
Fill in this Coupon:
Name
Address
FINNEY’S
THE DRAPERS OF QUEENSLAND.
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
It was indeed delightful to hear Digby
Denham condemning the “private extrava-
gances” of people, the other day. Accord-
ing to D.D., Queenslanders “spend as much
in amusements in one night now as they did
in a week 10 years ago.” And if this be so,
where a.nd what is the fons et origo of all
this lavishness? Does it not arise from the
insane boom policy largely bred and begot-
ten by the mad loan expenditure of politi-
cians like Denham, Barnes, McGowen, Hol-
man and others of that kidney?
When J. W. Stephen, then Attorney-Gen-
eral of Victoria, ana afterwards a Supreme
Court Judge, brought in the “Godless Edu-
cation Act,” Archbishop Goold sent to Eng-
land for the Christian Brothers, who are
secular and religious teachers, but not
ordained priests. That was in 1868. The
first three were Brothers Tracey, Lynch
and Bodkin. Brother Tracey, who died in
Queensland a few days ago, was a Tipperary
man, and ready to tell Stephen or any other
person to “come. on.” Having spent 61 years
of his life teaching boys and building schools,
he was recalled to Ireland Jn 1900. “I Sup-
pose,” said a visitor, “you will spend the
rest of your days in Dublin?” “Oh, no,”
he said, gently, “I’ll go back to Australia
and find a grave there.” He came back, not
long since, and found the grave he wanted.
“Fusilier” after inspection :
I encountered Brisbane’s juvenile army on the
march, and received a shock. They were the first
batch of cadets to be drafted into the first line of
defence, and had just returned from an eight days’
course of continuous training at Lytton. They re-
minded me irresistibly of English cartoonist Reed’s
“Prehistoric Route March,” which appeared in Lon-
don Punch some 15 years ago. They seemed afraid
of their rifles, and handled them as if they weighed
t° ns - The guns were at the slope, but no two were
V, the same slope, and the effect was dreadfully un-
tidy. and slack. In divers other ways the - young
soldiers were as slovenly as could be, with not a
trace of the trained man’s smartness. One does not
expect from partially-trained lads the smartness of
regular troops; but these were bad even for a militia
standard. All of them carried their water-bottles
with a generous length of strap, instead of having
them resting snugly on the hip, where the weight
would not be felt. From the way they marched I
reckon eight to 10 miles a day would be their limit.
Whilst being entirely against the “pipeclay soldier,”
I know that in handling men, unless small details
like those, pointed out are attended to, you cannot
make efficient soldiers. A man needs to be taught
smartness in his dress and more smartness in hand-
-18 r] ' fle - .The rifle exercises are not, as the
civilian may think, for mere display, but to make
the embryo soldier handle his shooting-iron with
automatic Quickness and precision. A good game
shot works his gun like clockwork, and a good man
shot needs to be just as quick and sure, for he works
under much harder conditions. This vital point
seems to have been lost sight of in the training of
the young Australian troops. The officers do their
best, but there are not enough of them. The other
day I saw no company pass with more than one
omcer, and with raw material one section is quite
enough. If each officer is allotted three men’s work,
as at present, the inevitable result is slackness. The
sflortage of officers will continue to trouble the De-
partment until it is prepared to pay them to give
their whole time and attention to their work.
According to the Queensland Government
Analyst, Brisbane pays £5OOO per annum
for water served up in the guise of milk—
which surely is a pretty hard thing to say
of the army of inspectors and. the rest of the
paraphernalia of Bananaland’s gorgeous
Health Department!
According to the Brisbane Telegraph,
the Queensland Government has had in the
last four years about £1,200,000 in actual
surpluses, while the ostensible ones shown
in the Budget only totalled about £14,000.
The Telegraph is very indignant, not at
the scandalous faking of finances thus im-
plied, but at the dragging of over a million
in surpluses out of the poor taxpayer’s
pocket.
A Bill before the Assembly proposes to
give an area up to 100,000 acres to anybody
that will clear and keep it clear of prickly
pear. Considering that, according to a
Lands Department report, the State has 15
million acres of pear country which would
cost £20,000,000 to clear, it certainly is
time something sudden was done. Premier
Morgan made one experiment; he spent £l3
an acre in clearing pear on Jondaryan—and
then found that the land was worth about
£6 10s.
The Darling Downs have visions of soon
getting dirt-cheap coal to boil the billy.
Alongside the Oakey-Cooyar line, one E. H.
Reeve was pushing a well deeper, when he
tapped some of the combustible at 40ft., and
a Government expert hinted that he might
dig further and do no harm. He dug and
uncovered a 3ft. 9in. seam at 80ft. Of
course, a sample was shot out for inspection
and is described as “especially fine coal.”
But,, then, did any coal ever look anything
else in the first flush of discovery ?
ART.
FRIENDLY CRITIC: “Um —not bad; not bad at all By Jove , though , old man , I'd like
you to see some of those pictures my wife knits!”
“Stingaree”: Bowen has a female beach-
comber, a Mrs. Pitcairn, who has lived for
the past 40 years on the shores of Port Deni-
son. Before she came to Australia Mrs.
Pitcairn was a nurse, under the late Florence
Nightingale, in the Crimean War, and
throughout the scrimmage she kept a diary
which is one of her L w treasures nowa-
days.
The Brisbane Courier was quite indig-
nant, the other day, to think that the South
Australian Treasurer should be “putting a
strain on the resources of a small popula-
tion” by paying a surplus of £275,150
towards the reduction of the Public Debt.
The raising of this surplus the Courier
stigmatised as a “grave failure to comfort-
ably balance the public accounts.” Of
course, it never occurs to the Courier that
having to pay a huge interest bill every
year may also be a big strain on the re-
sources of a small population. The Courier
Government is “guilty of no grave failure to
balance public accounts.”
No more will the reveilU arouse Lieu-
tenant Rigby, of the Bananaland branch of
Australia’s citizen armv. During his 50
years he saw fighting twice —in Egypt and
in the Boers’ country. There being no scrap-
ping presently to be done, Rigby took to
showing young Australia what to do when
it has to be done. One of his assets was
Voice. When Kitchener wandered about
Bananaland he dropped across Rigby drill-
ing a corps, and instantly noted a resem-
blance between that remarkable commotion
and the full trumpet-blast of half a dozen
elephants.
Mahomet’s Still.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kanaka converts Queensland has had in abundance,
Dut no Indian or Afghan Mahometan in this land has
yet embraced Christianity.— Church Chronicle.
The Koran of my father’s race
Hath truth enough for me;
His Eblis shall my Evil Place
Through all the ages be ;
For black-eyed houris as of old
The Mussulman would thrill—
Your doll-faced cherubs find me cold;
Mahomet has me still.
Not Christian gold nor Christian bride
Can tear me from my creed;
In Islam’s faith do I abide
In very truth and deed ;
In knack of veering chop and change
I have but little skill;
Howe’er the fleshly fancies range,
Mahomet has me still.
Your mission man may buy with rice
The cringing Bengalee;
Your South Sea heathen takes a price
And bends a supple knee ;
The thick-lipped black from Guinea’s
coast
Ye bid him eat his fill;
He lifts the hymn and joins your host —
Mahomet has me still.
I hekr your pallid parson preach,
I catch your Sunday psalm,
And dream the while of shining beach
And Coromandel palm;
Away, ye unbelieving horde.
Go lap your swinish swill—
I eat my bread at Islam’s board ;
Mahomet has me still!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 26, 1912.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Murder will out. The Women’s Club met
in one of our most up-to-date tea palaces on
Thursday, and pledged itself to harry and
exterminate the whole mosquito family and
its allies. The oath was washed down with
coffee and battened with sandwiches. Mrs.
Frank Little was hostess for the occasion.
At an early date, health officer Dr. Elkington
will give the exterminators some inside infor-
mation concerning the wicked ways of the
enemy, particularly in regard to its Gabbett-
like habits. '
Pretty little Clare Fitzgerald changed her
name for that of Shand, on Thursday, her
accomplice being a nephew of our newest
judge. A simple white satin gown and a
veil of Limerick lace —priceless, of course,
and first worn by grandma—adorned the
bride; and sisters Agatha and Paula gave
first aid at the knot-tying operation. Agatha
is a budding artist, and a very pretty child.
A portrait of her painted by Miss Lahey,
occupied a corner in last week’s Art Show.
James Cowlishaw and his gentle lady cele-
brated their golden wedding on Tuesday.
Last year the bridegroom’s sister (who is
Mrs. Woolnough, wife of the editor of Bris-
bane Telegraph) also killed the adiposed
calf, in honor of her 50th anniversary. Mrs.
James Cowlishaw’s purse is one of Charity’s
best friends hereabouts, particularly when
children are to be benefited. Her labors for
the Children’s Hospital will not soon be for-
gotten. This institution sent along two gold
spoons on Tuesday, just to let the lady know
that it had a memory.
Mr. and Mrs. Carroll, and their son, are off
next week. The Sonoma will bear them away
from Sydney, and for the next two years they
will search the globe to see if there is any
better country than they are leaving behind.
Nurse Hay Phillips, a daughter of the
Sandgate Phillips clan, left for your parts
this morning. An architect brother, bent on
a closer acquaintance with new dodges in
building and construction, accompanied her.
Other Queenslanders on travel bent are the
John Hunter Browns. The head of the
family departs for London to-morrow, to
manage Thomas Brown and Sons’ office in
that village, and Mrs. and the family will
follow early next year.
President Wilson and his wife shook a
number of rain-damped hands at their house
on Kangaroo Point last Friday. Most of the
hands were the property of architects and
their frilled halves, and the damp rain was
the property of the Devil, who has no use for
it at headquarters. Music and the innocent
recreation of pallor games whiled away the
hours till supper, which was eaten with bare
teeth on the verandah.
The Braille Association took as large a
number as possible of the children from the
Blind, Deaf and Dumb Institute on Friday
afternoon, and fed them in the Botanic Gar-
dens. Some unknown pal sent along enough
of that useful, but scarce, commodity, ready
money, to hire a motor-boat and add a few
extras to the menu. If he (or she) observed
the ensuing joy, he or she, or both, should
feel several inches taller in soul stature.
“Robbery Under Arms,” with Roy Red-
grave as the buccaneer or bandit, or some-
thing, is nightly filling His Majesty’s. The
audience is mainly composed of office boys,
and the air is filled with hoarse whispers ’to
the hero to “look behind yer,” and angry
demands that the other chap shall “sit down
in front.” Next week “The Girl from Way-
back” will breathe gumleaves across the foot-
lights. Phillip Lytton is travelling the lady.
Two Brisbane musicians are breaking the
news to Europe that there is more than
boomerang throwing to be learned in Aus-
tralia. Elaine Feez, who is at present in
Paris, was a pianiste of whom any hamlet
might be proud when she sailed away to add
fresh vegetables to her leafy diadem; and
young Arthur Benjamin, from all accounts,
will take some beating at his own particular
line of putting a piano through its paces.
The Prinz Waldemar, which arrived here
to-day, brought a tragedy of its own into
port. The purser was found shot, shortly
after the German boat got into the river, and
there’s no doubt that he committed suicide.
Another sad sea affair was the disappearance
of Mr. C. Weatherill from one of the coastal
steamers this week. Mr. Weatherill had
been second-best man at a wedding in Rock-
hampton, and was returning to Townsville.
He suffered badly from sea-sickness, and is
supposed to have fallen overboard during an
attack of dizziness. Mr. Harry Weatherill.
the well-known rowing man, is a brother of
the unfortunate traveller. Both brothers are
very popular. There have been two or three
similar disappearances from coastal steamers
during the past 12 months, and the travelling
public reckons that the time is ripe for a
few inquiries.
Cooktown, some months ago, was riven
with excitement o’er a banana-eating con-
test. St. George (S.Q.) proudly emulous,
came along the other day with a ladies’ cake-
eating competition. The winner polished
off 23 cakes and four (4—IV) cups of
tea while the next best got away with 19
wedges of pastry and three half-pints of the
cup that bloats but not inebriates. Sympa-
thy, tinctured with faint scorn, was extended
to a rash novice who over-tea’d, thereby
waterlogging her compartments and fatally
diminishing her cake-*carrying capacity. St.
George is simmering with dissatisfaction
over the affair. It avers that it has not
done itself justice, since its best talent failed
to come to the front. A non-competitor is
reported to be equal to 30 cakes and a tank
of tea any day.
It is still raining, and all is mud.
Yours in sodden shoes,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
In view of his small achievements, there
will be talk up North presently of re-chris-
tening the Premier Pigmy Denham.
Maryborough election displayed perfect
miracles of ignorance. At one polling booth
where only 10 votes had to be recorded, the
presiding genius rendered six informal.
When a man who has to issue only 10
ballots in eight hours makes 60 per cent,
of them null and void, it is surely time some-
body kicked somebody else violently.
“Syntax”: In the eyes of Queensland
Governments, apparently, the crime of mur-
der is much less villainous when the victims
are little children in outlying country places.
Joseph Frisby, who murdered a little girl
because (as he confessed) he had a grudge
against her father, had his sentence com-
muted recently to imprisonment for life. It
appears that Frisby was once an inmate of
a lunatic asylum. If the Cabinet were
moved not to hang the criminal by this fact,
surely penal servitude for life is no fitting
treatment for an alleged madman. If, on
the other hand, Frisby be accounted sane,
then so long as capital punishment is the
law there can be no justification for com-
muting sentences in such atrocious cases as
this. The Denham crowd are not advocates
of the abolition of capital punishment, and
have already done some hanging, so their
action re Frisby is quite inexplicable. In
1904 the Morgan Government acted simi-
larly in the Macdonald case (Longreach).
The victim in that instance was also a little
girl; so the present scribe feels justified in
repeating that in the eyes of Bananaland
Governments, murder is not half so bad
when the victims are little children in
remote country places.


rf
LIGHT
THA T'S
SAFE .
Atmoslite Air-Gas
can’t explode, is non-
poisonous and odor-
less, yet soft, white,
brilliant, and surpris-
ingly cheap.
The best system is
Brandt’s Atmoslite
Automatic machine. It
is intensely simple,
reliable and durable.
10 to 200 lights.
Easily installed. Write
for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St.. Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, S YD X E Y.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
THE WONDER SPECTACLE OF THE CENTURY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.’S,
Stupendous Production of William Young’s adaptation
for the Stage of General Lew Wallace’s Impressive
Religious Romance,
EE N HU H.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
HKK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY?
Direction, ,T. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
RE-OPENING, RE-DECORATED, RE-ADORNED, on
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in
THE QUAKER GIRL.
FOR A BRIEF REVIVAL.
REMARKABLE NEW FEATURE DANCE
By FRED LESLIE and IVY SCHILLING.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
D AEACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessees: TALBOT LTD.
EVENINGS AT 8. MATINEE— WEDNESDAY.
AN UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
Randolph Bedford’s Impressive Play,
THE UJNS E E N EYE.
Interpreted by a Powerful Oast, including
The Great Emotional Actress,
MADGE McINTOSH.
PRICES : 4/- (Reserved), 2/6 & 1/- Plans at Paling’s.
National ampii i theatre, sydnis *.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO. •
BARTZ TRIO, Greatest Acrobats on the Continent.
AUBREY MALLALIEU, the Renowned English Sketch
Artist, supported by Miss Leal Douglas and their London
West End Conipanv.
PHILLIPS & MERRITT, Singing, Talking Duo.
WARD & VEItE, Musical Comedy Duo.
ATHOS & READ, in their Sensational Skating Act.
THE VANTELLS, Horizontal Triple Bar Act.
ADEL P H I THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management. George Marlow Ltd
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE GIRL WHO TOOK THE WRONG TURNING.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
The Fascinating, Thrilling and Unique American
Mining Drama,
AT CRIPPLE CREEK.
FOR 12 NIGHTS ONLY.
Prices : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/- Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
-piIE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
QLACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NELLA WEBB, the Incomparable American Diseuse.
F. MoZZETTO, one of the World’s Finest Jugglers.
WELCH & CARBASSE, Burlesque Artists.
MARIE QUINTRELL, one of Australia’s Sopranos.
ALBERTO MARINI, Tenor.
JOHN McGOWEN, Baritone.
LOUIE ORAVVSHAW, Comedienne.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —45., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s & Theatre.
OP KR A II OUS E. MELI!O U R N E.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
THE THREE SISTERS MACARTE, presenting their
Spectacular Scena, “ The Land of the Lotus.”
FRED BLUETT, Australia’s Premier Vocal Comedian.
THE THREE KELTONS, Musical Specialty Artists.
THE MAX FRANKLIN TROUPE, Wonderful
European Acrobats.
THOMAS BENTLEY, Dickensonian Sketch Artist.
WILL WHITBURN, the Quaint Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. HjWF"*PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
JHBATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 2.
First Production of
GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD
Presented by a Brilliant Band of Comedians.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
Tie KING’S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 2.
Reappearance of
W. ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in
THE SPAN OE LI E E
(By arrangement with Bland Holt).
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
WIRTH BROS.’ GREATEST SHOW ~ON
EARTH.
NEW CIRCUS CO.,
WILD WEST, WILD AUSTRALIA
and
MENAGERIE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
in the
PLAZA TORO, WIRTHS’ PARK,
Matinees—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
BOX PLAN AT GLEN’S.
PRINCESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
in
The Biggest and Best of all Drury Lane Melodramas,
THE SINS OF SOCIETY.
Prices 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURN I
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 2
FOR THU FIRST TIME HERE.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
NIGHTBIRDS.
Adapted by Gladys Unger from Strauss’s
' “ Die Fledermaus.”
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE, NOVEMBER 2.
PRINCESS COURT, ROCKHAMPTON, NIGHTLY.
Direction amalgamated pictures
ltd.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace,
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock,
3d., 6d. and 1/-
EVENING PRICES : 2/-, 1/6,1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Athenaeum hall, Melbourne.
Direction : J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
FAREWELL SEASON
M ARGARET COOPER,
and
HER COMPLETE COMPANY.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES : 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-
Ol V M V I A. , O L Y M P I A.
Jj Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
«/EST'S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the BEST WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Cbapel St., Prahran. Vie.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with tlu
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
What
You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have something to
say worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”—William Ewart Gladstone.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All farther information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
554 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Rail
Bearing 1 Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and hv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON'
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, ChicagTOj U.S.A.
"KICI-IARDSON
CHICAGO
PROSPECTUS OF -
The Kempsey Cedar & Hardwood
Timber Company, Limited
To be Incorporated under the Companies Acts of N.S.W.
Capital: £50,000, in 50,000 Shares of £i each
Divided into 10,000 Fully Paid-up Shares to be issued to the Vendors in Full
Payment for the Concession.
25,000 Contributing Shares, which are now offered to the Public, as follows:
5/- PER SHARE ON APPLICATION; 5/- PER SHARE ON ALLOTMENT.
And the balance in Instalments net exceeding 2/6 per Share, at intervals of not
less than one month. It is estimated that 15/- per share will be ample for all
the requirements of the Company.
15,000 shares to be held in reserve for future issue if required.
THIS Company is being' formed for the purpose of acquiring from the Stockyard Creek Timber
Syndicate Exclusive Timber Right No. 4, Land Board District of Ivempsey, Parish of Vernon,
County of Dudley, and State of New South Wales, consisting of 10,000 acres held under the Forestry
Act, 1909, upon which area exists what is believed to be the most valuable forest of Cedar still remaining
in Australia, the sole rights in respect of which under the Forestry Act will be transferred to this
Company. Also, to erect a mill for preparing the Cedar and Soft and Hard Woods for market, to make
roads, build wharf, and provide other necessary equipment.
This Concession also comprises the right to cut other Timbers of exceptional value, viz: —Stave
Wood, Ironbark, Tallowwood, Red Mahogany, Box, Blackbutt, Blue and Grey Gum, and Yellow Cedar, etc.
In consequence df the scarcity of Cedar in the markets of the Commonwealth —the forests of this
State have been almost entirely denuded of this timber—-the present Concession is. of very great value.
'The necessary expenditure in making roads and providing means of access being beyond the resources, of
The ordinary timber miller, the Concession has been made over to a Syndicate, so that the moneys
in opening up roads and tramways would ensure reasonable certainty bt a substantial profit.
Besides the Cedar on the Concession, there are also scattered Cedar Trees in the adjoining district,
which cannot now be satisfactorily utilised, but arrangements are contemplated with the timber getters
in the district to cut this timber, which can then be marketed by the Company, owing to superior traction,
and the erection of a thoroughly up-to-date Milling Plant, and at a substantial profit.
As there are large forests of Hardwood adjacent to the Mill (which it is proposed to erect near
Kempsey), timber from which can be obtained at a low cost of haulage, many thousands of acres of
Ironbark, Tallowwood, Blue and Grey Gum, Box, Stave Wood, Blackbutt, Red M'.iogany, Red Wood
and Yellow Cedar are available, and logs can be delivered by contract at the Mill. It is therefore proposed
to work out this timber in conjunction with the Cedar from the Concession, as satisfactory terms are
possible with owners or occupants of private lands and leases for cutting and delivery. By these means
an immense area of forest will afford many years’ profitable work, and adds considerably to the value of
the Concession.
There is a large demand for Hardwood Timber at Ilempsey, Green Hills, Eurokay Smithtov. n, Glad-
stone, Seven Oaks and Jerseyville, and all along the Macleav River, and throughout the district. Sawn
timber can therefore be sold (delivery at the mill) at a large profit, whilst the surplus can be sent on to
Sydney and to the other States, and- also show a good return.
It will therefore be seen, that, although Cedar is the chief consideration, the local and Sydney busi-
ness in Hardwoods will be a valuable adjunct.
Detailed estimates of expenditure for erection of tramway, formation of road into Concession, and
means of transit to the mill, have been prepared. From thence Droghers will convey timber to Kempsey
for shipment by Steamer, or arrangements will be made for TimbW Crafts to take shipments direct from
the Company’s wharf at mill down the Macleay River, to the Heads, and thence to Sydney. No difficulties
will be encountered, as the Bar presents no obstructions to vessels of light draught, and Coastal Steamers
are never delayed beyond waiting at times for high tides —therefore the serious stoppages that hampei o„her
ports of shipment will not be experienced in the transit of the Company’s timber.
The North Coast Railway, now in the course of construction, will pass within a few miles of the
■Concession, and besides affording further opportunities for transit, will increase the demand for local
•consumption. „ „. , , _ ,
The Concession has been transferred to Messrs. J. F. Capper and H. Chisholm, as Trustees, and all
•documents in connection therewith, estimate for the erection of the mill and other expenditure, estimated
cost of production and statement of estimated profits, together with the report of Mr. A. Edwards, the well-
known Sawmiller, of Narara. District Plan and all particulars are open for inspection at the Office of the
Secretaries, all costs of which are borne by the Vendors.
It will be noted that the Vendors are so well satisfied with future prospects
’that they do not ask for any cash payment.
Provisional Directors :
HARRY CHISHOLM, Esq. (Messrs. H. Chisholm and Co.), 60 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W. A. GORDON, Esq. (Messrs. Gordon and Coldbam), 10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. P. CARPER, Esq., Surveyor, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Solicitor:
E. E. FOSBERY, Esq., 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bankers:
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
Secretaries pro tern. :
Messrs. GORDON and COLDHAM, 10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Auditors :
Messrs. A. F. LORD and CO., F.C.P.A., Incorporated Accountants, Sydney.
Preliminary expenses in connection with flotation and registration of the Company, the Transfer to
the Company, and the Timber Right with Stamp Duty and Fees will be borne by the Company.
The Company will pay a brokerage of sixpence (6d.) per share in respect to all Shares allotted, which
may have been introduced by any member of any recognised Stock Exchange throughout the Common-
wealth.
The Company may proceed to registration and commence business when 15,000 Shares have been
applied for, and should registration not Ibe proceeded with the application money will be returned in full.
A draft Contract has been prepared for the sale to the Company of Exclusive Timber Right No. 4
above-mentioned, in consideration of 10,000 fully paid-up shares in the Company, such draft Contract being
expressed to be made between the various members of the Stockyard Creek Timber Syndicate (and their
Trustees, Messrs. J. F. Capper and Harry Chisholm) and the Company. This draft Contract has been
approved of by Messrs. Capper and Chisholm as Trustees for the Syndicate, and is intended to be executed
and carried out when the Company is incorporated. The original draft may be seen at the Office of the
Secretaries, Messrs. Gordon and Coldham, 10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
It is believed that there are no Contracts in existence the names of the parties to and the dates of
which should be specified in this Prospectus in pursuance of Section 06 of the Companies Act, 1899, but
should there be any such Contracts, all applicants for shares in the Company shall be deemed to have had
notice thereof, and shall be held to have waived compliance with the said Section 66 as regards any such
Contract or Contracts.
Prospectuses and Forms of Application can be obtained from the Secretaries of the Company, and its
Bankers, as well as at the Stock Exchanges of Sydney, Melbourne «,nd Adelaide.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Provisional Directors,
The Kempsey Cedar and Hardwood Timber Company, Ltd.,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.B. IK.
Sirs, — -, i
I hereby apply for. ; .1, i. ;v. Shares in the above Company, and
Application
erclose Cheque for £ .. being and Money thereon.
Allotment
I agree to accept the said Shares, or any smaller number that may be allotted to me, and to be bound
by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and I request you to register me as the
holder of'the said Shares.
And I agree with the Company as Trustee for the Directors and other persons liable, to waive any claim
I may have against them for non-compliance in the said Prospectus with Section 66 of the Companies Act,
1899, which requires the names of the parties to and dates of all Contracts to be specified in the Prospectus.
Dated this .......i day of.
.1912
Name fin fry.).
Address
Occupation .
Signature .' <>
N.B. —Exchange to be added to Inter-State and Country Cheques.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. * Twin Screw.
SALOON' ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB h £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mm,nouns'i! Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide A- Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS A CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAM A ..Triple-Screw..
ORVIETO ..Twin Screw ..
OSTBULKY „ „
OTRANTO
OTWAY .. „
ORSOVA
ORONTES . „ „ ..
OMR AH
OPHIR
13,000 Itegd. Tons.
12,130 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. C-ihines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, Jfcc.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers & Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances oh City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LI IVII TED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and lleserves .. 370 000
H F.AD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. 1\ CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares ~ .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up ' 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great liri-
lain and Ireland, and other idaces.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Hanking business.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir AVilliam P. Manning, Kt„ Chair-
man; Georg R J. Si.y, Esq., LL.D.; Clias. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South AA’ales A Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian
Np\y Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world!
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 18153.
linkers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Sllltppribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Om)ital Paid Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 118,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.GG9 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Afl new business since 18!)S specially protected.
Pjrkctors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning
Efifl. ; Hon. G. AY. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—AA". X. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOAVED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum : 2
years and over, at the rate of '4-1 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE. 1
Branohes—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East. '
Shipping:
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For I’assage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney :
OSIERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI .& CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
IHOS. BftOWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
New Zealand Insurance Cpd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH; 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
, Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
All Steamers fitted with AVireless.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£110 (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).'
Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable with Holt’s
Blue Funnel Line.
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and O. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD'TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. Ac., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
s.s. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACIvAY everv Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
For ADELAIDE, ALBANY and FREMANTLE, s.s.
RIVERINA, from Melbourne on WEDNES-
DAY, NOVEMBER 20.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
1 1 from
HOWARD SMIXH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-cladi
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to three months, and
costing £5 to £25.
ytj
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established. 1 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
• 4S5 Sfi3gS
DIUECTOItS:
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
The lion.'Sir Normans] MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., I’res.ident.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Bichard liiunie, Esq. . .
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington
o* ox T uner, usq. ; ttheplieard Hdgeclitt Haftdlev, J]sq/ .
e r G ° r n e tI , St V S^ n °y, London Office—29 Thrcadneedle St., E.C.
'X■ ‘ '. 1 6 q l - 1 a Vf’i l a , 6 Australian Status, New Zealand,/Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
°£ la p!n„^” ee 'f an , d 4 ?’\ .® out l 1 Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
* IJI ™ a P ua r’ London- 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World,
n n m,t T a ?+ eS r ? ia , de r J :o ’ Draf tf. drawn on, Foreign places DIRKOT. Foreign Bills'negotiated
WORID * J ’ Letters o£ Credlt and Circular Notes • issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£1,718,893 15 0*
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS :
George J. Cohen, Esq . . .. Chairman,
lion. 11. R. Rater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onsi.o\v Thompson, Esq.
Norman Siiei.i.ky, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Capi::, Esqj.
General Manager: T. A. Dibrs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspect®®:.
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDKEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pi.niiey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane,.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; lion. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manage: : F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the wo>rW.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up , ~£538,&®>7
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 159,®54
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,50)®
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. • —r
Gen. Man.. Edwd, D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. IT. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE..
Accumulated Furuls, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to “Policyholders exceed 1 £5,600,000..
Policies Uncqnditipjnal, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible..,
Premiums moderate' and without restriction as to* •
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairmrin.
The lion. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.T.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident i
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Service
To Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
By the Up-to-date Steamships
“ KAN OWN A” ... 7000 tons
(Fitted with (Wireless.)
“KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
“ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
“ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
“WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
And other well-known Steamers, fitted with all
conveniences for the comfort of passengers.
Tickets interchangeable with other Inter-State
Companies.
Also First-Class Return Tickets to Melbourne, Ade-
laide and Brisbane available for return journey by
Kail under certain conditions.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers.
Further information on application to—
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
j Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
-SbMMO NWEALTII & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
lIOBABT AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
■m'BHEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
1 Apply, for Illustrated Handbook, giving
i Passage Rates and Time-tables.
RUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
i| COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
vGEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED). ■
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to atul from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PJRTK
And GULF POUTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
T.S.S. Warilda (7713 tons),
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, November
23, carrying Ist and
2nd Saloon and Steer-
age Passengers. Also
December 21.
BUISBANE
-MACK AY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, Nov. 2
S.S. Wollowra, Nov. 9.
S.S. Grantala, Nov. 16.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can bn
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN R.M. LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE PACIFIC TOURS
returning from San Francisco via
Rarotonga, Papeete and Wellington.
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST and second class.
SAILINGS:
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE.
12,000 Tons. B. G. HAYWARD, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
SYDNEY, about NOVEMBER 6.
MELBOURNE, about NOVEMBER 10.
ADELAIDE, about NOVEMBER 14.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins aiid spacious
•decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric 'light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. ..£4O to £45. £l6/16/-to £lB/18/-
(4-bertli.) (2-berth.)
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE, leaving Sydney about DEC. 12.
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE, leaving Sj;dney about DEC. 22.
ALL FITTED WITH WIRELESS.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—-
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and 'Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Melbourne
and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
11. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
GLORIOUS TOURS to the
SOUTH SEA
... and .. .
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
y
T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, NOVEM. 5.
T.S.S. ATI A, 3500 tons, DECEM. 3.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington)’, R.M.S. TAHITI, November 2. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.
5.6. AORANGI, arriving Sydney, December 10.
'There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA.
RAIATEA and TAHITI. Talune, November 19.
(Maheno, from Sydney, November 13, connects.)
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation tP the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
FIRE. ACCIDENT. WORKMEN’S COM-
PENSATION. PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
IF YOU LIKE DETECTIVE STORIES
yon should not miss reading “The
Drawn Blind,” appearing in The Lone
Hand each month.


TEN DAYS TO LONDON
FROM SAN FRANCISCO.
Sydney to San Francisco in 19 Days.
Via Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu. Saves 3000
miles ocean travel. Includes i South Sea Islands,
Yosemite Valley, Rocky Mountains,.. Grand . Canyon,
Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS.
ROUND WORLD TICKETS issued to return by
all Suez and Cape Lines. Round Pacific Tickets,
Covering China, Japan, America, and Islands, at
Low Rates. For Rates of Passage and Freight apply
OCEANIC STEAM SHIP CO.,
14 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel., 2282 City.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “Pearl of the Pacific.”
R.M.S. TAHITI,
the largest and finest appointed vessel trad-
ing between Australia and San Francisco,
SAILS 2nd NOVEMBER.
Specially built for tropical weather, with
Deck Cabins —Cabins de luxe —Spacious
Promenade Decks.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS :
NOV. 30. DEC. 28. JAN. 25.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraph}'.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
jgh
pal A WELL CHOSEN GIFT is
Waterniaris
(Ideal)
Fountain Pen
Cement friendships already formed, and do
a good turn to those you delight to honour,
by offering, as your glad token of esteem,
the World-renowned Waterman’s Ideal.
In 4 Styles —Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6
and upwards; Safety and Pump-Filling,
1 5/- and upwards.
, Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London. F.npland.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED
BY SUBSCRIPTION,
Albert £. Church’s Monumental Work on
Australian Unification
'The Policy of the Young Australia National Party).
The Work will contain copies of
“Proposed New Constitution for Australia.”
“Swiss Constitution.”
“South African Constitution.”
“American Constitution.”
“Canadian Constitution.”
And the great English Acts: —
“Magna Charta,” “Bill, of Rights,”
“Act of Settlement,” and ‘‘Habeas Corpus”
(Very difficult to obtain elsewhere).
Printed in good Type on First-class paper. Bvo. p.p.'
-H)oe First Edition of lOOOJCopies only.
PRICE 2/6 NET. POST FREE, 3/3.
.Copies proposed “Australian Constitution,” 6d, each.
Send Remittances Direct.
To ALBERT E. CHURCH,
c/o THE AUSTRALIAN PAPER COMPANY,
93 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
• LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
•a*
per 100
Imperials -.45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
| Leyucas, , - I^/6
Remit ' amount with
order, and I will deliver
.C'f g arjc,*? all i charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re-
tukned in fuel if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
ID ustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
cation. Only address
34 QUEEN ST.. MELBOURNE
it *« eA *-r*
*<js ,
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three Per Cent, per annum allowed on all Deposits up to £3OO.
Agencies now open at local Post Offices
throughout practically the whole of Victoria,
Queensland and Northern Territory.
Melbourne, 25th October, 1912.
MELBOURNE AGENCY : 317 COLLINS STREET,
DENISON MILLER , Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEbSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
LANG’S GLOBE HOTEL
m
ISM
(BILL LANG and BROTHERS).
Good Accommodation for Visitors,
Ail the Best Brands of LIQUORS and
CIGARS Kept in Stock*
Corner
of
Swanston 8 Little Bourke Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
The Smooth-Shaving “ PLUM ” Razor
IS THE ONE FOR YOU !
We Guarantee every ‘‘Plum’’
We Sell for Two Years.
Its ringing, silver steel blade carries a beautifully fme edge
for a long period—no dragging or face soreness and redness
with the Plum.
We keep every Plum sold in perfect order, free of charge, for
two years. Test - this splendid razor.
Price 10/0, Post Free.
The C. & ,A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free;
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop,. 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CR Alfi Ri
V/IV/Vl VI <2*
G 54 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
ONE OF THE
Secrets of a Happy Home
is a
CHEERFUL LIGHT.
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Limited,
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
No home can possibly be happy where the LIGHTING ANT) HEATING System is faulty.
While the Head of the Household is displeased, every person therein is miserable.
Among the difficulties that contribute to the servant trouble are BAD LIGHTING AND
HEATING.
Instal Quirk’s Air Gas System
THE LICHT OF AUSTRALIA.
The Cheapest of a/I Lights on the Market.
* 'CHEAPER even than COAL GAS, and a much superior light.
A GREAT .BOON TO THE HOUSEWIFE ON LAUNDRY DAY. No extra heating by big fires.
A GREAT CONSIDERATION IN HOT CLIMATES, l>esides being labor saving.
The FINEST HEATING AGENCY known for COOKING.
A Magnificent, Steady Light for the BILLIARD ROOM AND LIBRARY.
A SYSTEM THAT SHOULD BE IN EVERY COUNTRY HOMESTEAD and Shearing Shed, in
the Men’s Quarters, and everywhere. ONE PLANT WILL SUFFICE FOR ALL.
QUIRK’S AIR GAS LIGHT
besides being SUPERIOR, is the CHEAPEST LIGHT KNOWN, is NON-EXPLOSIVE, NON-
POISONOUS, NON-ASPHYXIATING, and perfectly INODOROUS.
But you must have the QUIRK MACHINE*, in order to be assured of a perfect result in all :
climates. So keep firmly in mind the name of
QUIRK’S.
The Company supplies-its own experts 'to instal all and Guarantees Efficiency.' Esti-
lp.ates and all Particulars may be obtained on application.'to ' . •’ *
quirk’s Lighting & engineering limited,
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for the Plaissetty Flexible Mantle, the ost durable and cheapest of all.
'
? .
.
11
111M 1
■ ; 188
IIH ■
:Si a ■ mss
§ll a
tS'*;
7; ,‘ i ;
Ui
■■■
■
MM
I iNUH
:
:7^;:
,
rrr
The “RINGER”^
DOMINION
AGGORDEON
For the Dance, the
Picnic, and the Camp,
the “Ringer” Model
IS THE ONE
The brass trumpets of the “Ringer”'
are a feature found in no other, and
they help to give it that wonderful tone
that has made it such a favorite
The “Ringer’’as illustrated 23/-
■ ~ with Steel Reeds 28/-
~ larger model 29/-
, f larger model Steel Reeds
in wood case with lock 45/-
Ask for our illustrated catalogue of Dom-
inion Accordeons, and name of nearest
agent.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
DRUITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Summer
Suits.
We are showing -
a very tasteful
rangfe of Suitings
for this Summer,
and in cases
where customers
cannot call in,
will post samples
on application*
Safe**'
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
Tailors and Costumers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite “ Evening News.’,’)
UNCLAIMED MOMEY& PROPERTY.
rtOUftAL’S REiflSl’fcß tb NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, &c., &p., price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougai A Co.
Claims investigated ande!arried through
00UCAL & C0.,151. STRAND, LONDON, ENGLAND.
( Rsfribh'sher) over SO Yfnrs-)
Box 1281, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Notice is hereby given that the Thirty-ninth Ordinary General Meeting of the Members of The
Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited will be held at the Head Office of the Company, 126 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, the Twenty-ninth day of October, 1912, at Noon
BUSINESS.
1. To receive the Report of the Directors for the Half-year ended 30th September, 1912.
2. To elect Two Directors in the place of James Moloney, Esq., and F. G. Clarke. Esq., who re-
tire in accordance with the Articles of Association, but are eligible for re-election, and offer
themselves accordingly.
3. To appoint Two Auditors, and to fix their remuneration. The present auditors, Messrs. John
Charles Duigan and John Bishop, are eligible and offer themselves dor re-election.
4. To transact any other business of which due notice may have been given.
Dated this 4th day of October, 1912.
Bv Order of the Board. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
The Transfer Books will be closed from October 21 to October 29, 1912, both days inclusive.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Thirty-ninth Report, with a Balance-sheet and
Statement of Profit and Loss for the Half-year ended 30th September, 1912, duly audited.
After providing for Expenses of Management, interest Accrued on Deposits,'Rebate on Bills Current,
Tax on Note Circulation, and making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts, the net profit amounted
to . . . . . . . . . . ~ . . . . . . _ £2B 932 3 1
Brought forward from 31st March, 1912 .. .. .. .. .. 3’, 709 11 6
< ;S£SZ,t>4l 14 o
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz.:—
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares.. £10,641 10 9
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares.. 4,733 5 6
To Reserve Fund (making it £190,000) .. . . .. 10,000 0 0
To Officers’ Provident Fund .. .. . . .. .. .. 1,000 0 0
Balance carried forward . . . . .. . . . . . . 6,266 18 3
llie Dividend will be payable at the Head. Office on and after the 30th October, and at the
Branches on receipt of advice.
The Thirty-ninth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of the
Company, 126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, ihe 29th dav of October, 1912, at noon.
Melbourne, 15th October, 1912. ,By Order of the Board. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
BALANCE. SHEET of
Tire Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited,
For the Half-year ending September 30, 1912.
!>«■• (INCLUDING LONDON OFFICE TO AUGUST 31, 1912.) Cr.
To Capital Paid-up, viz:—
31,184 Prefer-
ence Shares
paid in cash
to £9 15s.
per Share ..£304,044 0 0
77,278 Ordin-
ary Shares
paid in cash
to £1 15s.
per Share . . 135,236 10 0
£651,922 4 6
23,696 0 0
353,106 11 6
33,629 10 11
£506,659 17 11
3,287,652 15 1
£4,856,666 19 11
To Contingent Liabilities, as per
contra . . 181,945 10 3
By coin, bullion
Australian
notes, and cash
at bankers.. £800,029 14 2
By British Con-
sols, £70,668
15s. 2d. at
£74 per cent. 52,294 17 7
By Victoria Go-
vernment
Stock and
Debentures
Metropolitan
Board of Works
and Municipal
Debentures . . 146,741 14 0
By Bills and
Remittances in
transitu and
in London . . 395,871 3 6
„ Notes and
Bills of other
Banks . . 2,238 0 0
~ Balances due
from other
Banks .. 23,218 1 1
~ Stamps .. 1,265 10 2
-£1,422,259 0 6
By Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank Premises . . . . 199,191 18 10
Other Real Estate . . . . 8,811 10 0
By Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for bad or doubtful debts .. 3,226,404 10 7
£4,856,666 19 11
By Liabilities of Customers and
others in respect of Contingent
Liabilities, as per contra . . 181,945 10 3
PROFIT ANQ LOSS ACCOUNT
To Current Expenses (including
Salaries, Rents, Repairs, Sta-
tionery, Note Tax, etc.) .. £40,050' 9 4
To Transfer to Reserve Fund .. 10,000 0 0
To balance 22,641 14 6
£72,692 3 10
By Balance brought forward .. £3,709 11 5
By Gross Profits for the Half-year,
after allowing for Interest Ac-
crued on Deposits, Rebate on
Bills Current, and making pro-
vision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts 68,982 12 6
£72,692 3 10
REiSEkVE fund account,
To Balance £190,000 0 0
) ' ■
£190,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward
By:'Transfer from Profit and Loss
it 180,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
£190,000 0 0
THE FEDERAL BUILDING SOCIETY.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the Year Ending 30th September, 1912.
To be presented to the Shareholders at a Meeting to be held in the National Trustees Building, 121-25
Queen Street, Melbourne, at Eleven O’Clock on WEDNESDAY, 30th OCTOBER, 1912.
The Directors present herewith their Eighth Annual Report and Statement of Accounts, duly audited.
The net profit for the year is .. .. .. .. .. .. £9,539 17 7
Balance from last year .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,826 11 7
Making a total of £11,366 9 2
which the Directors propose to apportion as follows: —
Interim Dividend at. 7 per cent, per annum (to 31st March, 1912), paid
30th April last . . . . . . £3,372 5 9
To pay a Dividend for the Half-year ending 30th September, 1912, at 7
per cent, per annum .. ~ . . .. . . . . .. 3,372 5 9
To Reserve Fund (making it £36,000) .. .. .. .. .. 3,000 0 0
Carrying forward .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,621 17 8
3LiX,OUU » Z
Messrs. Joseph Major Pratt and Thomas Arkle, who retire from the Board, in accordance with the
rules, have been duly nominated for re-election.
The retiring Auditors, Messrs. C. H. Tuckett and W. N. Robertson, have also been nominated for
re- election.
Melbourne, 11th October, 1912.
J. M. PRATT, Chairman.
A. SCOTT, Secretary.
BALANCE-SHEET for the YE ART ENDING 30th SEPTEMBER, 1912.
Dr. LIABILITIES.
To capital
To Reserve Fund (used in society’s
business)
To prepayments
To deposits and accrued interest . .
To balance .. ..£11,366 9 2
Less interim divi-
dend paid April
30, 1912 .. 3,372 5 9
£96,351 0 0
33,000 0 0
400 5 2
79,083 1 4
7,994 3 5
£216,828 9 11
ASSETS.
By loans on mort-
gage and balances
owing by purchas-
ers of properties
upon terms ..£204,652 19 11
By arrears.. .. 1,155 16 4
■ 1£205,808 16 3
By properties in possession (at valu-
ation as taken over from the old
society) 8,926 14 8
By fees and insurance premiums . . 21 1 4
By bank credit .. . . . . 2,071 17 8
£216,828 9 11
PROFIT AND LOSS,
£3,372 5 9
To interim dividend paid April 30,
1912
To management, including salaries,
£19,497 13 6
By balance at Sept. 30,
1911 £6.198 17 4
Less dividend paid
Oct. 27, 1911, £3372
ss. 9d. ; less trans-
ferred t o Reserve,
£lOOO .. .. 4,372 5 9
■ £1,826 11 7
By interest 17,519 10 9
By rents 80 17 9
By fines and commission .. .. 70 13 5
£19,497 13 6
A. SCOTT, Secretary.
C. H. TUCKETT, F.C.P.A.,
AVM. N. ROBERTSON, F.0.P.A.,
Auditors.
The Transfer-books will be closed from the 17 th to 30 th October, both jiates
The Dividend will be Payable immediately after the annual meeting’. r
inclusive.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS.
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
Report of tHe Directors of
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
The Balance-Sheet of the Bank as on 30th September last and the Profit and Loss Account for the
Halt-year winch then terminated are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The net profit, after deduction of all expenses, including £6013/15/10 for Note, Income and Land
.1 axes,
Amounted to
Add balance brought forward from previous Half-year . .
concerned
Leaving available
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows: —-
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account
Reduction of Bank premises
Grant to • Officers’ Provident Fund
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares
Special transfer to Reserve Fund account, being the amount of Recoveries, as per
contra (making the Reserve Fund £405,000) ..
Carry forward
At the time of our last report Hr. J. G. Addison, our esteemed Chief Manager, was suffering from ill-
health, which, to our extreme regret, terminated in his lamented decease on 13th May. Mr. E. H. Wreford,
formerly Assistant Chief Manager, has been appointed to the vacant office.
During the Half-year the Branch at Port Fairy and the Agency at Prairie, in Victoria, were closed.
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Bank, Collins-street, Melbourne,
on Wednesday, 6th November, at noon.
By order of the Board of Directors.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Head Office, Melbourne, 24th October, 1912.
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
Balance=Sheet of the National Bank of Australasia Limited
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1912.
(Including London Office to 31st August, 1912, and West Australian Branch to 16th September, 1912.)
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital-
-30,578 prefer-
ence shares,
paid in money
to £lO per
share, £305,780,,
238,488 ordin-
ary shares, paid i
up to £5 per
share, £1,192,-
440.. ..£1,498,220 0 0
To Reserve Fund
Account . . 350,000 0 0
To Profit and
Loss Account.. 121,359 10 3
£1,909,579 10 3
To notes in cir-
culation. . .. £52,491 10 0
To bills in cir-
culation. . .. 568,142 14 10
To Government
deposits—
Not ..bearing in-
terest, £158,734
15s. 9d. ; bear-
ing interest,
£894>359 18s.
2d. 1. . . . 1,053,094 13 11
To Other Deposits—-
Not bearing in-
terest,-£3,568,- -
510 9s. lOd. ;
bearing inter- -
est, £5,900,193
ss. Bd. . . 9,468,703 15 6
To interest ac-.
crued and re-
bate on cur-
rent bills . . 104,846 0 9
To balances due
to other banks 235,009 2 1
— 11,482,287 17 1
£13,451,867 7 4
ASSETS.
Cr.
By coin, bullion,
Australian
notes, and cash
at bankers . . £2,354,479 16 3
By Government
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
£3,736,927 17 7
By real estate, consisting of bank
premises 399,485 16 3
Bv other real estate . . .. 42,015 1 9
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts .. 9,273,438 11 9
Liability, in the form of a guar-
antee of certain shire and muni-
cipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being
duly provided for by sinking
funds, in terms of the Act
authorising their issue, and on
purchase of Victorian Govern-
ment debentures, £112,869 ; and
liabilities of customers and
others on letters of credit and
drafts, £175,411, as per contra,
£288,250.
To contingent liability, as per
contra, £288,280.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 169
branches and 42 agencies. . . . £91,188 15 1
To note, income, and land taxes .. 6,013 15 10
Balance.. .. .. .. .. 121,359 10 3
£218,562 1 2
By balance brought forward.. .. £10,616 17 7
By gross profits, including recoveries,
less rebate on bills current, in-
terest paid and accrued on de-
posits, repairs to premises, and
rent -- . 207,945 3 7
£218,562 1 2
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance .. .. .. ..£350,000 0 0
£350,000 0 0
By balance last half-year .. ..£285,000 0 0
By transfer from profit and loss .. 65,000 0 0
£350,000 0 0
NOTE.—The customary Auditors’ Report, and the Certificate of the Directors and Chief Manager to
comply with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1910, appear on the Official Report.
Protect Your Feet by wearing Patent Asbestos Socks.
MA
Before Using.
No More Pains in the Feet. The Comfort Experienced
i? Asbestos Socks is Absolutely Marvellous.
Hot, Perspiring, Inflamed and Tender Feet. Corns,
Bunions and Bad Feet Prevented and Absolutely Cured
| by wearing Patent Asbestos Socks, (soles).
I An Army Surgeon discovered that soldiers after marching suffered more from
soreness of the feet than from actual physical fatigue. After long study he
found that this was due to the irritation set up by the smooth leather insoles of
their boots. The Asbestos Socks, made from impregnated asbestos with a
slightly rough grained surface prevents the foot slipping inside, and walking is
thus less tiring. Asbestos being a non-conductor the feet are kept
from the variations caused bv hot or cold weather, a genuine joy
and blessing to the tenderfooted. In fact the Comfort experienced
in wearing these socks is absolutely marvellous. Try a
pair at once. Satisfaction Guaranteed or money refunded.
They will renew the feet of anyone who has to stand long or do much
walking, such as shop assistants, policemen, nui>ses, sailors,
soldiers, postmen, cyclists, athletes etc. Made in two qualities,:.l/-
2/-per pair, postage 2d pair extra. Six pairs either quality sent for price of
„ P airs - State size and name this paper.
universal Supply Co. 460 George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
After Using.
j
)o You Long for a Full Moustache?
That Bare Upper
Lip Betokens
Boyhood!
Craig & Aitken
Change straight from a boy to man’s estate by growing a smart
moustache. CAPILLARINE is the never failing moustache grower. It has
a 25 years’ reputation. Use it according to the simple directions—the
result will surprise you. Send for a jar to-day.
Price 10/G Jar, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER (worn at night) shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, S/6 each, Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.


LET
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap
take its part in your everyday
toilet—to keep the skin in good
condition, to remove all traces
of perspiration and to protect
against infection.
Your local Chemist or Stores
sells it ia 3 tablet boxes.
Mekers :
y. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Fng.
"GOLCRYST
A
J > IS
USEFUL
J
liy purifying; the blood, GOT,CRYST
invigorates the whole system and keei>s
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GORCRYST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., fid. and 1/-. Free sample
sent by proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTS W.A., Neale, Con-
stable and Co., Perth ; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,”
Adelaide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney. [2
ASTHMA CURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous Conghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMATTLT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bit oil Chemists.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
remain Private -when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your.letter, and the
copy is made as you -write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying"
The letter is posted and the hook
putaway. 400 Octavo (Bin. bys )
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
in N.S.C./200, Post Free for 3/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S C./400, Post Free, for 6) .
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. Si- Post
Free; or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetic Pens, 3d. doz., 2/- gross. Zanetic Writing Paper, size
5,1/- pl:t., 10 xB, 2/- Sample of the Zanetic Ink paper -which
produces this result, Free, if stamped envelope sent to . _
S- B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road, LEICESTER, England.
fghj
A
fghj
gj
'ZANETIC
1 COPYING
THE Australian Magazine—THE LOXJS
'HAND. The National Monthly, Priee. 6(1.
Sri
M
m
22
?emmgton.
REPEATER
We are just as proud of the
REMINGTON .22 Repeaters as
we are of the REMINGTON Big
Game high-power Rifles —for just
as good reasons. There is no
other make of the .22 class built
to as high a standard.
The features that place the
REMINGTON .22 in a class
by itself are the real big
REMINGTON features —
Hammerless and Solid
Breech. You clean the
barrel from the breech.
There is perhaps a greater
difference between the
REMINGTON and other .22
Repeaters than is to be
found between rifles of any
other class.
A real rifle—the REM-
INGTON .22 Repeater
—shoots without ad-
justment. .22 short,
.22 long, or .22 long
Rifle Cartridges.
REMINGTON
ARMS--UNION
METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO.
11. MOL DEN,
Australasian
Representative,
P.O. Box 459,
Melbourne;
1349, Sydney.
[3
Australian
ESTABI.IStn'.F IS4II.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiole .
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or
C ity or Suburban Prooerties. or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pas *«^ a ' 5 *o® fheAuV-
of Government Debentures. Insert bedlStock “VestCURRENT RATES OF INTEREST,
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWts • - Wp nf rph „ vill< .
Our new Morarure Heed contains a condition allowing an v fine'
up to-20 per cent, of the ioan aurinsr any year, without notice or pa n»™,tv.r>hsirm’an • The
DiBBCTORS-The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Sen;a tor the Hon- J. • \vinchcolvlbe,'M.H'.C. ; Adrian
Hon. Ja tries Burns, M.L.0.; The Hon. RJ. Black MHO. , The Hon J. win > A> FSS-
Knox. Esq., K.C. Geneu-al Manager and Actuary . Richard Tee • ' apperly, Secret,arv.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
•a
a
KING
GEORGE IV
Scotch
w
m
A
Whisky
The “top notch” is reached
in this rare old Stimulant,
reminiscent of the good
old days its title re-
calls. Try a “Nip”
of it.
the Distillers Company Ltd Edinburgh.
SYDNEY— Place. MELBOURNE—S 2, William Street.
1
ACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
72. feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps firmly
together with the adhesive cement which we supply
free. We supply the nails and tin caps free also.
With each roll goes a ten-year Surety Bond Guar-
antee. Back of the guarantee stands the Royal
Exchange Assurance of London.
Sample free on request.
Congo Damp Course is a waterproof,
antiseptic felt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expense is trifling.
Australian Agents
IVIeIUUUIIie , JJiaua.no ix ■ ’ ... e
& Co., Ltd., Rockhampton; Elder Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Adelaide; Millars’ Ivarri & Jarrah Co., Ltd.,
Perth ;
William Hart * Sons, Launceston; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
rty
Is -the most pertect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON. CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
THE Best Stories written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything .Aus-
tralian. That’s. Thk Lone Hand. “A
marvellous six-penn’orth !”
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles,as sight magni-
fiers,; and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drum's are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them, lney
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them -the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. \\ hat a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber _ they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on-the side .of. the head- will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds. ,
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, ive give an illustration ot
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fifs the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a. r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
; cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a ... i:.u b could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. AVe have letters to" show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You i..av wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear' them (we
have special sizes for children from six to- twelve).
Evert a child can insert and remove them’Without "the
least danger.
; The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
•visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also -an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs.-, but—-the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not a'sk for a trial pair. AVe do -not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and ~the Outfit, will he sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can. / * ; .
'V
(V
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY 00., .
103 Arlington Chambers,
• 229 Collins Street, Melbourne. »
Please sCid me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, fpr which I enclose One Pound.
Name \ . j. •
Address .Ox. ?,
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. It
•'Tik Note or Sovereign is sent, von must register
WHEN ORDERING
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
Brand*
THE REASON IS
SIMPLE.
THERE'S NO OTHER
JUST AS GOOD.
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
1 . We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, .ONDON, E.C. '
.• ' LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
. QUEEN’S BRIDGE, VIC.:
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ;
Benches in all partB.of the world. V \


No Rest, Night or Day. Almost Driven
Crazy. Suffered Nearly 2 Years.
Used Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Instant Relief and Complete Cure.
"It is with extreme pleasure that I send
you the following account of my recent
trouble and complete cure by using Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. In doing so I trust
it may meet the eye of some other poor
unfortunate suffering from the same or some
similar complaint.
"Abo«t two and a half years ago I was
attacked with an itching which gradually
grew in violence until it became almost
unbearable. Very often I have had to leave
church and other places, so that I might
relieve the intensity of the itching in a good
scratch, sometimes almost drawing blood.
My scalp had a great number of small spots,
and in and around about the ears, round
the eyes, forehead, cheekbones, and all round
the jaws were so itchy, that at times I was
almost driven crazy. Often could be plainly
seen under the skin of the face a sort of
purplish rash in patches. I thought at times
it would break out into open sores. The
itching often kept me awake at night for
hours; in fact, I had no rest either night
or day, always itching, always scratching,
always jniserable. I tried several chemists
but no lasting relief came.
"At last (after suffering nearly two years)
about seven months ago I saw an account
of Cuticura Soap and Ointment and I de-
termined to give them a trial. I washed the
affected 1 parts with Cuticura Soap and then
I applied Cuticura Ointment and found
instant relief. There has been no recurrence
of the itching in the slightest degree for over
four months. I also took Cuticura Pills. I
cannot find words to sufficiently express my
gratitude. I still use Cuticura Soap as I
find it a good toilet soan and always use
it in Rh'aving, as I find it very soothing.”
(Signed) Robert S. Dodd, 35 Francis St.,
Glebe, Sydney, N. S. W., May 30, 1911.
Although Cuticura Soan and Ointment are
sold throughout the world, a liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-page booklet
on affections of the skin and scale, will be
sent, post-free, on anplication to R. Towns
& Co.. Dent. SK. Svdnev N. S. W.
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercurv, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6cl
jfg
Carters
Mttle
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired — Out of
Sorts —Have No Appetite.
CARTER'S LITTLE LIYEB PILLS
will put you right in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
I
I
HOWTO
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
1 reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
sav that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity, of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privatelv selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. ’ I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of mv true hair grower. X do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world —I am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower
John Craven Burleigh, Dept, f, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
A CHRISTMAS GIFT
in the form of a
"SWAM SAFETY"
FOUNTPEN
never fails to be highly appreciated by
any and all.
It eliminates all writing
troubles such as blotting,
leaking, scratching. It
looks well and works
even better. It out=
lasts all other gifts—
that’s why it is such
a popular gift.
#
Va
Sold by
all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free from Makers.
MABIE, TODD g CO., London,
or J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham
Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/li, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
'tfhterod'T*
Checks Fever-
ishness, aid
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
•he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm in
D/ARRHCEA and simp/e DYSENTERY.
During our Stocktaking Sale
jh
THESE SPECIAL PRICES ARE OFFERED TO CLEAR
D.8.8.L. GUN, top lever, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual price, £4/10/-. Sale
price, £2/17/6. Complete with Cleaning
Apparatus. TRIAL.
5.8.8. L. GUN, top lever, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual price, 37/6 Sale
price, 25/-. Complete with Cleaning Appar-
atus. TRIAL.
SPECIAL D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with Greener
patent cross-bolt, left barrel full choke, right
modified, walnut stock, pistol grip. Usual
price, £5/10/- Sale price, £3/17/6.
Complete with Cleaning Apparatus. TRIAL.
SPECIAL PICEON HAMMERLESS GUN, fitted
with Greener patent cross-bolt, top lever, left
barrel, full choke, right modified, walnut stock
and pistol grip. Usual price, £lO/10/-
Sale price, £6/17/6. Complete with Clean-
ing Apparatus. TRIAL.
MAUSER PRINCIPLE RIFLE, to kill at 30Q
yards, to take the .22 long and the .22 short
cartridges. Usual price, 20/- Reduced
Any of the above guns delivered, CARRIAGE
PAID, to any address in the Commonwealth.
Send for one of our Illustrated Catalogues.
SMALL ARMS CO.,
Importers &
Cunmakers,
242-244 Bourke Street, Melbourne
\
\5
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
tjj For use during illness and con-
valescence.
t| For weakly and overgrowing
children.
4J As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
mm
fgj
Food
soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
BENGER'S POOD LTD., Otter Works, MANCHESTER,
ENGLAND.
Ben ref’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc. everywhere.
BIOSV
The Inky Way.
London Times made a big splash on September 10.
In celebration of its 40,000t1i number it orougnt out
a colossal supplement narrating the history ot print-
ing in general, and its own history m particulai.
There are some little-known curiosities in the his-
tory of the printing of newspapers. The tallest ana
broadest newspaper ever printed was the Illumin-
ated Ouadrutle Constellation, published in JNew
York in 1859. It is a centennial journal, so that we
will have to wait 47 years before we can read its
second issue. Copies of it are to be seen at the
British Museum (London), and the principal American
libraries. This journal was 9ft. high and 6ft. wide
There were eight pages, with 13 columns to the
page. The paper on which it was printed was ex-
ceptionally strong and durable, each ream weighing
over 3cwt. After a lapse of more than half a cen-
tury this monster Yankee journal looks as fresh
and bright as if it had only been issued yesterday.
Is there a copy of this “biggest thing in journalism
anywhere in Australia ?
* * *
British journalists have been holding their annual
conference at Brighton. They discussed the value or
otherwise of a University education to a journalist.
It is generally otherwise —a heavy handicap, loads
of learned lumber in his head,” as the poet said
One speaker declared that a University education was
a direct professional gam to a journalist, givi g
him “wideness of outlook, intelligent understanding
and a sympathetic interest in all sorts of subjects.
Sir Bartram Windle, President ot Cork University
College, Ireland, joined in the debate. He is
starting a class for the teaching of journalism in
his college. During his 30 years experience as a
teacher, nothing struck him so forcibly as the stupid
and inefficient manner m which boys and girls were
taught composition. And yet, strange to say, Irish
men and women are the best press people in London
and elsewhere. * * *
A Westralian writes: Sam Whittato, who recently
blew his light out with a gun in Westraha, scored
heavily as a descriptive writer at the time ot tn
great mining disaster at Creswick (Vic.) many long,
tough vears ago. He joined the Argus as a junior j
from Hobart Mercury, and attracted attention by
thp freshness and vigor of his style. When the me
at the bottom level of one of the big alluvial mines
broke through into some old workings, a tremendous
inrush of water took place, and over 30 miners were
drowned without the slightest" chance of escape.
Young Whittaker, who had been sent up as special,
wrote^graphic works of mystery and imagination, and
thrilled all Australia by his pictures of darkness,
slush utter hopelessness and despair. Many thou
sands’ of pounds were subscribed, and the widows and
orphans were all provided for. The enthusiasm with
which the relief fund was piled up was largely due
to Whittaker's articles. The silver boom was suc-
ceeded by a wild gamble in city properties pre-
cursor of the bogus banks and rotten building socie-
ties the Munro crowd, and other parasitical growths
on ’the trunk of the boodle tree. Sam joined iu=
brothers, who were builders and contractors, and for
a time he looked down on the speck called earth from
the giddy heights of opulence When the crash
came, and nothing was worth tuppence in the £
Sam looked around for another press billet, but the
Melbourne papers were feeling the financial strain
keenly, and were shortening sail. Just then Jimmy
Thompson started the Evening Standard, an<yVhit-
taker was offered, and accepted, the leadership ot
the reporting staff at £4OO per annum. George
McCulloch Reid was editor, but did little save write
stodgy articles altogether out of place m a paper
largely devoted to sport, the courts, theatres and
other frailties. The real editor was Jack Roberts,
formerly of the Age and Sydney Hansard, and
associated with him was Saunders, a first-class all-
round journalist. When the amalgamation with the
Herald took place, Whittaker went across to the
West, where his brothers had started a, flourishing
business as timber merchants and saw millers. Milk
was scarce in those days, and Sam fancied there was
a fortune in dairy farming. He went in for a herd
of cattle, but they were not a success, the milkers
not having been accustomed to sand and thorns as
articles of food. Then he got appointed. Crown
Lands inspector in the South-western District, and
became some sort of a farmer himself. His wife
died last December, and he never got over the loss
He went for a trip to Melbourne and met many old
pals, and returned to the AYest apparently quite
cheerful, but a moody, despondent fit overtook him. ,
The rest was summed up by a coroner s jury, which
said: “Nothing to show the state of his mind when
a self-inflicted bullet wound caused his death.
“Penman”: The London Times, just to hand, cele-
brates No. 40,000, as was mentioned by cable. Gives
a long screed, and screech, of course. Yet one can
read betwen the lines that it is an apology for loss
of prestige. When the French Revolution broke out.
Mackintosh said: “Necker is too %““ a ° c f
detail. He cannot ride the storm. The limes ac
cumulates vast detail to show the terrible work of
producing it. There are about 13 editors. ine
huge paper overflows, perforce, into huge supple-
Nevertheless, I believe that the great AValter
the Second wrought through difficulties as great as
the present, when he made the Times the leading
•ournal. Bennett the First toiled through equally
vast to make the New York Herald the leading
; ournal T and Syme through as much to make the Age
what it is. These three men, Walter, Bennett ana
Svme are my three stars of Orion s Belt, in daily
journalism. Something is going to be. aheadl in Lon-
don, despite all the parade of impossibilities by the
Times of to-day. Figaro once led in Paris, but i
think Le Matin has a nose in front nowadays.
There is a public instinct ready in every city to leap
uS 6 for 3 the P genius to create the lending morning
oaper Never an evening one. The two greatest
coming fields are and Hankow.
“Penman”: One Behrin. of New York Supreme
Court has just claimed the world s shorthand cham
nionship with 281 words a minute. There were 20
competitors, but only one hailed from England. Have
I not heard of Read doing as much with Pitman.
Cannot I produce a 281-er in Australia? Interesting
to know Behrin’s system. Whether Pitman is or
is not the quickest is interminably fought out. Pit-
man is the most logical and systematic, indeed the
“ tw is so. Gurney and al 1 the others are more
arbitrary. Various enemies of Pitman declare that
lie cannot equal others in absolute verbatim ,reP°rt-
ing such as is needed in examinations of. import-
ance. Besides, every Pitmamte develops originality.
I never encountered one who could read another s
shorthand with absolute facility. On the other hand, the
Gurneyites read off each other exactly like print.
Now, with my pen in rest, I await the onslaught of
the fanatical Pitmanites. ,
* *
“Nemo”: The Commonwealth Government has a so-
called Literary Fund; and the man in the street and
the cove down the lane think it is lucky for bloques
that work with the pen to be looked after by the
good Government. But, think of it? The chaps to
whom members of Parliament owe most for scratch-
ing with pen and pencil get nothing out of the fund
if ill-luck overtakes them —nothing at all* A man
must write and publish a book of some sort before
the benevolent Administration will give him a stiver
if he were starving. Anybody who knows how the
gallery work is done in “the House is aware that
in many cases the reporter writes the honorable
member’s speech for him when he does attempt to
"all? The newspaper fellows get hold of what the
member for Noodleborough or Chumpville wants to
say or would like to remark, and write a nice little
philippic for him. And when oration is
read by the people at Gobblehambury, they gape at
one another and remark in whispers of awe : Struth,
Splutters can talk when he likes! But the good-
natured reporter for the Old Age or the Blindman
when, in some way, he gets on his beam-ends and
wants someone to give him a couple of sovereigns a
week, or less, finds that the man who. has the money
for the literary people will give him none of it.
“Have vou wrote a buk? someone will ask him.
“No not yet!” “Oh, well, you can’t get anything
till vou’ve written a buk ! Make up some pomes an’
publish them in a buk an’ you’ll get an allowance!
But no Barabbas in the shape of a publisher can be
found; and the man who has worked for 30 years
for the asses who govern his country must just
starve Meanwhile the hon. members raise their own
screws’ buy or build halls —not houses —to live in,
travel’abroad, and do all sorts of things in a gor-
geous way.


7 i
I 1 s
IT
I
See here for a Tube
no trumpery tube, but a
RED RUBBER TUBE
made of the finest Rubber grown.
This tube is higher in price than the
ordinary tube, yet the Michehn price
is wonderfully low.
The solution of the paradox is :
DURA
FLEXI
RELIA
BILITY
ECHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained from all the leading Garages.
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, l/li and 2/9 per box.
The flany Points of SUPERIORITY
Eckersky’s “REGAL” Aerated
tt=6!
Water Machine
over ALL OTHERS create a demand
for it by all sensible
HOTELKEEPERS.
Catalogties from
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE,
The Only Manufacturers of GOOD
Soda Water Machines and Fountains.
Queensland Agents:
ELLIOT DONALDSON & DOUGLASS, Brisbane.
1
I
* " til* ,4«. rll.
BEWARE
OF
DROPPERS
weakened by holes or cut-out slots ;
THEY SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
WEDGE-CLIPS AND LOOPS MAY BE USED ON THE SAME DROPPER.
CHEAPEST DROPPER ON THE MARKET.
• If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to —
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD,,
Leicester & Queensberry Streets, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
i over the roughest
paper with the ease
I of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


“THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN 12-gauge, top lever 30in. steel barrels
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b .£lll SI.
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt £2/51
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State. '
Harrington § Richardson’s
5.6.8. L. Gun,
12-gange, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun. Auto-Ejector, 24/-.' Non-Ejector, 21/-
yjfgjfg
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
■4/8 Inter-State.
I
The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Sienien’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38Jin.. weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
stock, case
35/-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Mead Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches : City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST and CHEAPEST HOUSE
for all kinds of
CUN REPAIR WORK.
©
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about 631 b. to 71b., _ _
of 16-gauge 6|lb. to 61*11). DELIVERED, g///?
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at /4/- extra.
We are the Sole Agents in JS'.S. W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
I
©
9
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
etc. Post Free
Anywhere.
The “Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar looks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7Jlb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s
jfgjfg
0^!
Are you building
a new Home ?
or having the old one re-painted ? It pays
to use the best pamt because it goes farthest,
looks best and wears longest. The small extra
cost is not worth considering because it is labour
that costs the money, not materials—good paint
costs no more to put on than poor paint.
There is a special paint for every purpose-
each the best of its kind, British made by a
House with 152 years*
reputation—in
On sale throughout the Com/nonueaffft •
For name of/ocat agent send a postcard tot
Lewis Berger & Sons (Australia) Ltd^
IS. YOUNG STREET. SYDNEY.
jfgjfgj
BOOMERANG ACGORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
;
Improved Bellows andras^nens
ss*=
uodpjqpoJl fiurjaiiiooq Mm
mm
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend —
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest Workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (11 lb.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent <■ stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT (Si SON, 137-9 King' Street, Sydney
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
OFFICE ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT, INCLUDING SECRETARIAL WORK.
Bv LAWRENCE R. DICKSEE, M.Com., F.0.A., and H. E. BLAIN 306 pp. English price, 5/- net.
PITMAN’S DICTIONARY OF COMMERCIAL CORRESPONDENCE.
In English, French, German, Spanish, and Italian. Second Revised and Cheaper Edition. 502 pp.
English price, 5/“ net.
OF ALL PRINCIPAL SYDNEY BOOKSELLERS.
London: SLR. IS \AC PITMAN &. SONS, LTD., 1 Amen Corner, EC [5
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OB NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravings, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Meerik
England, tid. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How To Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is'6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/0.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions wjtii Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s FrbemasonryJls 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d, How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets,- Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d,
m
m
a
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. E. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. - 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANA 7 address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -38®
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., With full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
.That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is.
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d 1 posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkpta.mkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. §jte~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
; 4
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere ior the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT L!Y RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Sosos, Is 3d Dost. Hit. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 3CO latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
i-outid, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


WLIfIUiNbS
ft!
§
>
1
PS*
Mrs. A.
Clucas,
cured by
Bile Beans
& A BUSY PROSTRATING
t ATTACKS COMPLETELY CURED.
\
WAS a great sufferer from pros-
trating bilious attacks,” says Mrs.
A. Clucas, of 45 Stephen Street,
Camperdown, Sydney. “The feelings
of utter distress were terrible. Indeed,
1 was quite incapable of performing my
household tasks, and I was forced to
neglect them on more than one occasion.
“The painful headaches in my temples
and at the back of the head and down
my neck would be very trying. My
temples used to throb and throb, and 1
would hold my head with the tortures of
the violent pulsation.
“ Pains in the chest and between the
shoulders also gave me great pain, and
were the result of indigestion. When 1
would take a meal an uncomfortable
feeling of fulness would follow, which
would not be due to the quantity of food
taken, but to the fact that what I had eaten would not diet.
“ 1 took many so-called remedies in my search for a medicine
that would bring me relief, but my efforts were in vain, and I con-
tinued to suffer. A friend persuaded me to try Bile Beans, and hearing
from others also what a splendid medicine for liver and functional disorders
Bile Beans are, I decided to take the advice, so purchased a box. Even the
first dose brought great relief: the headaches eased, and my temples
throbbed less violently. Alter taking Bile Beans regularly for a few days, the bilious attacks
gradually left me, until they subsided altogether, and the fearful pains of the indigestion also
vanished. Bile Beans seemed to root the complaints that had made my life practically a misery
completely out of my system, and I now keep them always in the house as a family medicine,
and speak well of them always.”
The Standard Family Medicine
BILE BEANS arc a true
and reliable family
medicine, and valu-
able for oI d and
young of both sexes.
A supply should al-
ways be kept in every
medicine chest and
a dose taken on the
•first signs of a head-
ache or any stomach
trouble. An occasion-
al dose of Bile Beans
will help you to keep
healthy and strong.
Sold at 1/land 2/9 by
all Stores & Chemists.
He
eans
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day#
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding' day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the sKin generally-ybu
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years,
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion%
On Night Duty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Victorian State Treasurer’s announcement of
the Government intentions in regard to police I ’ay
wiis received with anything but satisfaction by the
members of the force stationed at ltussell-street.
The pay of the constables and sergeants, the Treasurer
stated, will be raised by 6d. per day from January
1 next.- — Melbourne Auk.
honest Hop pursues his way;
I And, give the ruau his due,
’Tis wonderful for such small pay
How much he will pursue.
The white stars burn about his head;
The drunks, in slumber sweet,
With alcohol and lobsters fed,
Hie crumpled at his feet.
Deserted banks, and pubs and shops,
All stuffed with money, frown
Upon the grim, deluded Hops
That guard the shadowed town.
The staring clocks look straight ahead
And signal with their hands
Above the prostrate streets and dead
Where only Doolan stands.
The dreamy gurgle of the drunk
Floats on the cool night air;
Some doorway is his feathered bunk
That envious kings might share.
He holds five shilling’s-worth of beer,
And all the peace men know;
And Doolan keeps his dream-track clear
While prowlers come and go.
The scent of dew-wet earth ascends;
The hour is damp and cold;
And Doolan, as he vawns and bends,
Feels he is growing old.
The long, sad thoughts policemen think
Like long processions wend;
He longs like thunder for a drink
And for his watch to end.
He feels like one who stands at gaze
Beside Time’s shoreless sea,
Waiting witli handcuffs in a daze
To catch Eternity.
And all the time the white clocks make
Signs with their creeping hands;
Tall Doolan is but half awake
As on his feet he stands.
He feels “completely at a loss”
And also “in the dark.”
(In ev’ry rag he comes across
He finds some such remark.)
He wonders why he never went
And broke the land with ploughs;
Or found some money and content
In herds of lowing cows.
The bright stars twinkle like new coins ;
They seem to him quite near.
(Another sixpence to him joins
When dawns the glad New Year!)
No comet rush of silver pours
Into his helmet deep;
But like a star from Heaven’s floors
He sees one sixpence leap!
It falls to him athwart the sky—-
It springs the gulf of Night!
He heaves a vast and awful sigh
And wonders if it’s right.
Out of the twinkling waste of stars
One lonely speck is his
To spend on girls, and motor-onrs,
And quarts of gold-topped fizz!
The chill of dawn flows down his spine ;
Crape-clouds festoon the sky ;
He feels the wide-eyed stealthy line
Of ebb-tide souls go by.
He starts and wakes. The sky is grey,
And grey and cold the street.
Then once riiore he pursues his way,
Dreaming wild dreams of extra pay,
To warm his splendid feet.
N.S.W.
CONSTABLE WINKING.
The Tickertack.
A MODERN FAIRY TALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALNASCHAR SMITH lay on his bod,
with' pipe in month, watching
through half-closed lids the wreaths
of smote slowly ascending into the atmos-
phere. They assumed, as he,, gazed upon
them, all kinds of fantastic and mysteriously
significant shapes. For Alnaschar Smith
was a poet, with the poet’s gift of seeing
strange meanings and symbols hidden to
other eyes, in the commonest of things. In
one of these delicate spirals he beheld, in
imagination, the sound of a trumpet made
visible, apd smiled, knowing that it was the
sound of the Trumpet of Fame which was
to carry the news of his high achievements
to the far ends of the earth. In another he
saw a yellow mist of gold like the shower
that fell on Daniie. This he recognised as
the Wealth that was to follow upon his
F,ame. He closed his eyes and commenced,,
to plan out lazily the ways in which he
would spend this wealth. In the first plaCe,
he would pay his debts, for he was a young
man of scrupulous liouesty, though (just
then) in. embarrassed circumstances, and
living chiefly, if not wholly, on credit.
Secondly, he would give a great banquet to
his friends who had stood by him when lie
was neither rich'nor famous. And each of
these friends should carry home with him
from the banquet a cheque for a sum of
money which would enable him to laugh at
bailiffs for a year or more. Afterwards, he
would take a few of the choicest of these
friends on a trip round the world with him
to see all the celebrated places and things
and people they had merely read of until
then. Lastly, lie would get built for him-
self, after his own design, a charming house
on Sydney Harbor, or in Devonshire, or
Southern France, or perhaps like Stevenson,
the novelist, on one of the fairest of the
South Sea Islands. There he would live the
life of an affluent lotus eater, varied by oc-
casional spasms of activity ; when at a single
sitting he would write novels, plays and
poems, which would electrify the world of
readers, and make other authors atrabilious
Wl HeOpened his eyes well pleased with his
projects, and watched another curl of smoke
ascend to the ceiling. 1 his one took a
different and more delightful shape the
shape of a beautiful maiden with lung yel-
low hair and smiling red lips, and a tend
light, of love beaming in her blue eyes, and
white arms outspread to welcome him. Ihe
vision was ?o entrancing that lie allowed his
pipe to go out while gazing at it. And then
in a moment his reverie was broken in upon
suddenly and harshly by the sound ot a
monotonous and irritating voice. .
“Time flies; youth dies,’ said the Voice.
“D u Time!” exclaimed Alnaschar,
sitting upright on liis bed and glaiing
savagely at a small clock of curiously carved
ebony, whereon was represented in quaintly
grotesque fashion the famous allegory of the
Pursuit of Pleasure. . _
This clock had a history of its own. It
had been left as a legacy to its present
owner by an eccentric old gentleman whom
he had rescued from footpads one evening a
year or two earlier. The old gentleman had
died since then, aud in this manner remem-
bered Alnaschar in his will. The clock was
certainly a handsome and possibly valuable
piece of furniture —as far as its case went
Alnaschar had never seen anything similar
before —but there was about it something
strange and uncanny which he could not
understand. Before it had come into his
possession he had been utterly reckless re-
garding the passing of time, and would
waste a week with as much indifference as
he would squander an hour. He was reck-
less still, but in the way of a sinner whose
conscience is awake and stabs whenever he
commits a fresh sin. The ebony clock had
become Alnaschar’s conscience, and the voice
which seemed to proceed from it broke in
upon his finest day-dream with its exasper-
ating doggerel refrain of “Time flies, Youth
dies.”
There were occasions when he almost re-
gretted that lie had not left the old gentle-
man to the footpads.
He rose from his bed and sat down at his
table which was littered with manuscripts,
some half-finished, some half-begun, and
others which were merely rough memoranda.
Amongst them were fragmentary passages
which were to be embodied in the Great Aus-
tralian Epic he was going to write some
day ; notes for the Great Australian Novel
and the outline of the plot for the Great
Australian Drama, both of which he was
also going to write on some future occasion.
In addition to these were odds and ends of
rhyme, ballads broken off in the middle, and
a 'heterogeneous heap of incomplete essays,
articles and short stories.
In fact, Alnaschar Smith, though he lived
by his pen, did so in hand to mouth fashion,
and greatly preferred to sit in the sun in
summer, or over the fire in winter, smoking
his pipe and dreaming of the great things he
was going to do, than to settle down reso-
lutely, and do, or attempt to do, any one of
them.
As he sat at his table listlessly turning
over his manuscripts his head began to nod.
Presently he saw emerging from the clock a
strange little being about a span high, and
dressed in red from head to foot.
“Who are you ?” Alnaschar inquired in a
tone of astonishment.
“I am a Tickertack,” replied the little
being with an air of pride.
“Delighted to make your acquaintance,”
remarked Alnaschar with ironicak courtesy.
“But, pardon my ignorance, what is a
Tickertack?”
- “A Tickertack is one of the servants of
the Great Time Spirit,” answered the small
creature, drawing himself up to his full
height, which brought his head on a level
with the cork of the rum-flask that stood in
the centre of the table next to the ink-bottle.
“Oh, indeed! Then, I suppose, you are
the little gentleman who makes my life
miserable by perpetually dinning into my
ears that wretched platitude about Time fly-
ing and Youth dying! Am I right?”
“Perfectly,” replied the Tickertack sweetly,
wagging his head from side to side like a
pendulum.
“Then I’ll soon settle you,” said Alnas-
char grimly.
He stretched out his hand to seize the
manikin, but the manikin had vanished,
and the voice from the clock repeated its
refrain: “Time flies, Youth dies!” with an
added sarcasm in its tone, which was the last
straw upon the back of Alnaschar’s endur-
ance.
He sprang upon his seat, walked quickly
to the mantelpiece and opened the door of
the clock. There was nothing visible inside
but the pendulum swinging peacefully to
and fro.
“The little wretch is hidden away among
the works, no doubt.” muttered Alnaschar;
“but wherever he is he shall not torment me
any more.”
He took the clock down from the mantel-
wrapped it up carefully in a news-
paper, tucked the parcel under his arm, put
on his hat and walked out.
Ten minutes later he came out of the door
of a shop (the sign of which was Three
Brass Balls) without the parcel.
“Vive la bagatelle!" he exclaimed, spin-
ning the sovereign in the air, “at last I’m
master of my own time- I’ve got rid of my
incubus. This day and the coin shall be
spent with the boys.”
Four years afterwards a gentleman with
a preoccupied air, and who seemed to be in
a desperate hurry, entered the shop over the
door, of which hung the sign of the Three
Brass Balls, and said to the man behind the
counter: —
“I’ve come to take that clock out;. The
interest has been sent you regularly, but
I’ve never been able to find time to call for
the article, and I wouldn’t like to trust its
carriage in any hands but my own. Be
quick, please; I haven’t any time to spare
now.”
“Quite right, sir—time’s valuable,” said
the pawnbroker, whose habit it was to lie
awake at nights and listen to the interest
mounting up at the rate of 00 per cent.
“Time’s money,” remarked the other
curtly. “Wind the clock up please.”
The pawnbroker did as requested. The
customer walked quickly out carrying the
clock under his arm.
The Tickertack was awake again after his
four long years’ trance, and resumed his
(Continued on next page.)


OH! That Back!
Ache! Ache! Ache ! Takes all the life, all the energy
out of you. Makes you miserable. There is danger in it, too.
Neglect the warning of a bad back, you neglect an appeal from
the kidneys. When the back is bad, when it’s lame or weak,
when it aches, when its tired, the kidneys are sick, demand
attention. Doan s Backache Kidney Pills relieve quickly the
aches and pains and weakness of a bad back. Doans Backache
Kidney Pills cure all kidney ills, cure urinary troubles, too fre-
quent urinary discharges, retention of the urine, and all dangerous
.. . . e kidnej s and bladder. If you fail to help the
kidneys in time, Diabetes, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease are sure
to follow. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are endorsed by
friends and neighbors, by people you know.
A SYDNEY WOMAN’S CURE.
Mrs. E Furness, No. 1 McLaughlin Terrace, Church Street, Camperdown, Sydney says-
hor years I was a martyr to severe backache and other distressing symptoms of kidney
trouble. he pain rn my hack was awful, especially if I had to do any stooping, or move
about quickly. It seemed to centre just above the kidneys, and never left me day or nhdit
My secretions were much affected, being thick and cloudy, and I always felt tired and had" no
energy for anything 1 tried all sorts of medicines, but it was not until 1 had |)een using
Loan s Backache Kidney Pills for a day or so that I got any relief from my suffering Them
pills were recommended to me, and proved to he the very thing I wanted. Before I had finished
one bottle I tell much better, and by the time I had used four bottles of the pills the pain in
my back had gone and 1 was quite well again. Over six months have elapsed since mv cure
was effected, and 1 have been free of every symptom of kidney trouble ever since. I now
' eel a different woman, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
i
IN
ve
ss
'U
Tells
A
SJffOO
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and Stores, 2!9
per bottle (six bottles, 1513),
or from Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ildtics with renewed energy.
Time flics,
youth djes.
fie chanted his little rhyme with vigor
sii(l enthusiasm. But as he did so he b e "
ejime ftwdfe of a strange filing. The heart
nf fhP IMP who was carrying the clock in
which he dvyelt was beating at the rate of
almost two strokes a second.
After some minutes passed in a train and
a short journey which the man accomplished
on foot, they entered the front gate of a
pretty suburban cottage, and, passing
through a trim garden, were admitted into
the cottage by a neat housemaid. The Tick-
ertack did not actually make these observa-
tions at the time, but he pieced them to-
gether from information obtained later on.
The brown paper parcel was carefully
opened, and then the Tiekertack heard a
feminine voice exclaim in pleased tones :
“Oh, Alnasehar, what a love of a clock!”
And then he heard the man reply, speak-
ing rapidly:—
'“Yes, my dear —handsome clock. I used
to hate it. Only clock I ever had that kept
pii' properly up to time-”
The Tiekertack, listening to those words
of praise, felt his little chest expand till it
nearly burst his red doublet. He hgd his re-
ward at last. The man on whose mind he
had taken spell pains to impress the value of
Time, who had scoffed at him and scorned
him, and had finally condemned him to four
years imprisonment in a squalid pawnshop,
amongst old clothes, old boots, box-irons,
umbrellas, and similar vulgar companions,
had recognised his worth in the end. It was
a great moral triumph for the Tiekertack,
and, in the glow of it. he forgave the map
for all past indignities, and solemnly re-
solved to do his duty by him more conscien-
tiously than before. The fiuth is tliat the
Tiekertack was a good-hearted little sprite,
and had conceived a lasting affection for the
inan,
But when the clock had been properly ex-
amined and praised, it was placed on the
mantelpiece of a room which, gazing through
his glass door, the Tiekertack knew ftt opce
to be a writing-room. If was, li°Weyer, yery
different in appearance from the room he
bad known previously—the room with a
table ip the centre coyered with p lifter or
manuscript, and a bed in the corner upon
Which, for hours at a stretch, ip the broad
daylight, Alnasehar Smith used fo lie smok-
ing and dreaming dreams. There were po in-
dications of dreaming, and few of smoking,
in this writing-room. The papers upon the
i osewood escritoire were neatly arranged,
the inkstand was of cut glass, instead of
being a broken egg-cup. There were no
pipes, no spilt tobacco, no mm flasks scat-
tered about- In a corner of the room stood
a tall bookcase with glass doors. The Tiek-
ertack noticed these things with a thrill of
measure. He felt at home. lie was at
b ngth in a situation worthy of himself and
the clock which lie inhabited.
But the man who sat at the table writing
as it for dear life—was lie the Alnasehar
■Smith he used to know? The Alnasehar of
the old days had thick brown wavy hair and
a mish like the morning, whereas this man
had a sallow, careworn face and a large
hald spot on the top of his head. Further-
more, he did not stop in the midst of his
Writing to light his pipe and lie down for
a while to smoke am] think ip jthe mapper
of the old Alnascliar. On the contlPl'.y, h@
seldom lifted his eyes from his work, except
to glance furtively pow and then at the
clock, Nevertheless, the Tickertack knew
him to be the same man, albeit miraculously
transformed.
Curiously enough the last and fairest of
Alnasehar’s smoke visions was the first to
be realised. lie married her because he
loved her and thought her beautiful. She
married him because sbe considered him
clever, and she loved him. This shade of
difference in their regard for each other
rather increased the affection of the husband
as time went on. He had, spurred by her
admiration of his genius, worked hard and
constantly while he was courting ffep, ant}
the habit had so grown upon him —or that
was what he had saiff to himself—that he
could not leave it off after they were mar-
ried. The real fact was that his realised
vision had somewhat expensive tastes. She
liked to dress well, live in a nice cottage iq
a nice suburb, give a little party occasion-
ally, and go to see or bear everything that
was worth bearing or seeing. The gratifica-
tion of these tastes cost money which had
to be earned by Alnascliar with his pen. He
accepted the situation and worked hard,
turning out vast quantities of manuscript
every week, for he had the gifts of facility
and versatility in generous measure. Hjq
perseverance had its reward. Editors came
to recognise after a time that they had dis-
covered a writer who was both clever and
trustworthy—one who could be relied upon
to supply a certain article, written up to a
certain standard, and ready at a certqiq
specified time. And so }t came to pass that
he was never without work- The friends of
his old Bohemian days shook their heads
when his name was mentioned and prophe-
sied darkly that one day he would break
down without warning. Old Anthony How-
ler, the father of the Bohemians, called him
a literary hodman, and said that he would
end either as a publisher’s hack of an in-
mate of an Idiot Asylum. ' Old Anthony
himself had, lor over 60 years, kept his owq
literary ideals undegraded through writing
only when he felt in the humor of when he
was driven fo work by dire necessity, and he
despised all writers wh° did otherwise.
The other smoke vis}ori seen by Alnascliar
in the past seemed also ip P fair way to be-
come realised. Fame lie had acquired
already in a small way which would, he
firmly believed, become Fame ip a great way
before many more years had gone over his
head- Wealth, too, would come —had come
to a modest extent, for his wife, though in-
clined to display, was not without the
feminine gift of prudence, and never failed
to bank a goodly proportion of her husband’s
earnings as she received them,
And yet there were times when in his
heart Alnascliar regretted the old devil-may-
care days of ascetic poverty alternated with
reckless prodigality, when he worked at his
own sweet will and idled when he pleased.
In those days his first thought when he had
achieved a small success and had drawn pay-
ment for was to out and share his joy
with his friends, like the woman in the
Scriptures who, having found a groat, called
iu her friends @.nd made merry oyer her dis-
coyefy. An{l they would hold higli converse,
fig and those friends of his, on art and
literature and music and the drama, and
sing songs and jest and smoke and argue
and talk about everything in the world save
money. It was, perhaps, all a waste of
time, but it was a very pleasant way of
wasting time nevertheless. And yet although
Alnaschar had a tender place in his heart
for those old days and old friends he knew
lie could never live the former over again
even if he would, and would not renew his
ancient relations with the latter even if he
could. His bygone dream of taking a choice
number of them for a trip round the world
was a folly to smile at—not without a sepse
of shame at lost illusions. And his great
ideas—the Fpic, the Novel, the Pratna,
which were to have made ah era ih litera-
ture? They were also laid aside, as being
undertakings which would pot pay till he
had made a greater name for hlpiself-and
that meant that they would never be writ-
ten, for Alnaschar Smith had aUeftdv gone
too far upon the Sordid Wav to ever re-
enter the region wherein the Thetnn eoo-w,
soar. * 8 w{le? em the Ihetpp Glgles
rnf . , _ .
of his iwn'mbio! - v yy b |led W 1 tl l the fruit
““ ° w , u devices in these days. His duty
his little rhyme, “Time flies,
dik'wS, n b awner ,of the
>ck Which, he inhabited was awake and
nnkia , ®tU the Tickertack re-
flfilled hiS intervals lor rest like all other
beings. In the night, for instance, It was
Us custom to sit astride the pendulum and
pe l'oc |ie d to sleep by its steady swinging to
and fro. |t came as a grievous surprise to
JUm when he found that in his new situation
pe could only U 0 tills tor five or six hours at
tne utmost, and had most dffvs in the week
to keep pegging away at his work for the
remamder of the 24. At this time the
Owner of the Clock used, to practically live
ip his Wfiting-room, leaving It only at meal
times, and sometimes forgetting eyen his
megls. When his eyelids grew so heavy that
lie could keep them open no longer he would
lav down his pen and snatch a few hours
*ep on the sofa which h„ had caused to be
brought into his writing-room for the pur-
pose. This was the only rest taken by him-
self oi the Tickertack.
r or over 12 months this state of things
continued. 1 lie Owner of the Clock was
burning the candle at both ends and in the
middle, all at once, He had become the
e>lave of His Reputation, and was gro-
tesquely fearful that if he did not keep his
name continually to the fore the public
would torget him. This fear was accorn-
panied by another and a greater. He was
haunted by a continual dreed that his vein
of originality-—which, like Mereutio’s wound,
was neither deeper than a well nor wider
than a church door—would be worked out
before lie. could make for himself a position
trom which he could dictate his own terms
to publishers and editors.
The Tickertack noticed with sorrow un-
speakable that the Owner of the Clock bail
taken. to drinking again. Now he drank out
of a little phial, with the result that his eyes
became brighter than the stars, and that'he
returned to his work with fiercer avidit.f
than ever. Also, on each succeeding day his
eyes were brighter and his face paler than
they were on the day previous,
Now the Tickertack was a sprite with the
kindliest-of disnositions (when he knew his
company), but his brain was by no means
as large as his heart. Yet, although he was
well aware of this fact, he deliberately gath-
ered together his courage to commit a tei-
nble crime. He was going to prove a traitor
to his master, the Great Time Spirit, and dj
for the sake of a mortal whom he demised
almost as much as he loved. He had Uu
more idea of composing rhyme, let alone
poetry, than a common gnome living down
in the mines, hut be battered his poor little
head pgftipst the sides of the clock till he
battered opt of it the following quadruplet:
Work’s not all,
Time’s a thrall,
t'.iV C
r , U . ’ t- , • lnH
, Il l wa! UT l ‘ poetry ’ !Uul a direct violation
.vow of obedience to
,V reat T *i*? e Swu '\ t ’ be ? ldeS • being . *
troublesome, thing to chant in unison with
the swinging of the pendulum, but the>Tiek-
et'taek, having once made up his mind, was
oot the sort of sprite to calculate conse-
qpepces or be dismayed by difficulties. The
only question that troubled him was how
should he convey to the Owner of the Clock
the change in the Clock’s Philosophy- He
had never dared to make himself visible to
Alnaschar since that memorable night years
ago, when he had scoffed at him for his lazi-
ness, and been punished for doing so in a
way which he had forgiven, but could never
forget. But he had grown to love this man,
and saw that he was working himself to
death. The Tickertack would much rather
have seen him killing Time than killing
himself. So it happened that one night,
when Alnasehar’s head fell heavily on the
table at which he was writing, the Ticker-
tack stole softly out of the clock and sang
in his ear: —
Work’s not all,
Time’s a thrall,
L f f s a -i est ~~
g u *. 4-i le Owne7 of the Clock made no
J3ut , u « nei i, °I 10CK ™ aae “°
K“*k weMbaef to the clock well Jis”
- we ?u + t 0 tne clocK satls
faed ’ tb,nking that the man # was asleep,
The morning came and the Tickertack
held himself in gay readiness to sing his new
song. But the Owner of the Clock was no
longer in the room. Presently the Ticker-
tack heard voices.
“He was stone dead when we found him,'’
said one Voice.
“Overwork, acting on a weak heart,” said
the other Voice.
“Mine—mine the fault,” moaned the
Tickertack. “I drove him to it and repented
too late.”
One of the speakers opened the door of
the clock.*
“Stopped,” he exclaimed; “and yet he
used to boast it always kept time ”
“Time’s not everything in this life,”' said
the other shortly,
But if they had had the eyes to see they-
would have noticed a little figure hanging by
its neck on a line with the wire of the pen-
dulum.
It was the figure of the
V.J. DALET.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINGHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
-aj
■
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from to
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q.
New Zealand Agents— Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
Simplest and M<
Reliable.
$
Sole Agents,
For
Steam, Air and Water.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
If you require a Simple, Economical, Eeliable and Moderately-Priced
Car, it will repay you to investigate the Metz 22-h.p., Friction Drive,
4-Cylinder, Water-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Sole Agents— Write for Catalogue . cfta# ■ ■ O Nett.
BROWN & HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
miii?
:
Ki
ffR -1
tIHB-aj' { ';gr
i
n
Write for full particulars to
EC ONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN,
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor —Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The “Goodall” Machinery
The “Ail Good” Machinery
There’s satisfaction in dealing with a firm that safeguards your interests like
we do.
We’ll please you so much on your first deal that permanent patronage is sure
to result. That s what we want.
Now, what are your requirements? We can supply:—
CIRCULAR SAWS
BAND SAWS
LOG BAND MILLS
SPINDLE MOULDERS
TENONERS
DOVE TAILERS
SANDERS
HIGH SPEED LATHES
DRILLING MACHINES
HACK SAW MACHINES
SHAPING MACHINES
PUNCHING MACHINES
SHEARING MACHINES
BLOWERS
MORSE TWIST DRILLS
MILLING CUTTERS
GEAR CUTTERS
REAMERS
SLOTTING CUTTERS
TAPS AND DIES
ou’ll like our Why fiot with them this week?
t. M. GOODALL &, CO. LTD:
Universal Machinery Merchants,
3.5 KENT STR FFT SYDNEY.
£ooH Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
TaKc
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Bcccha»’s pills.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price Hlh (56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
“The World-Wide Whiskey.”
Burke’s
★ ★ ★
IRISH
A WhisKey of unique value,
mellow, light and digestive.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
(Paid-up Capital, £1,100,000.
Established 1849), .'are by
far the largest Shippers of
Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
w
Ms?
* a
&
KENT
DOVER
C?!V $5?
BUTE
81
am
S YD
RICHMOND
YORK
The
COMPLETE
Rexophone
Catalogue
Fully describes these and other Models
Ask for a Copy. We post it FREE
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
DEPT. B, DRUITT STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Are Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running Costs.
The “UNION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
RELIABLE and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
PRICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


s
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
machT ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partition
Electric Storage Batteries
for All Purposes.
Traction, Town, House and Train Lighting Cells.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY, LONGEST LIFE.
Supplied to the Governments of Queensland, New South Wales,
New Zealand and Westralia.
107 BATTEEIES INSTALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
Manufactured by the D.P. Battery Co., Limited, Bakewell,
England.
Sole Australian Agent—
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. „
TRADfc.
[DICK’S PATENT
belting.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
ALAT/\
Id
MARK
The STRONCEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Beit GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferiar
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
■SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
r-:
— m
mam
m
wm
v
I:
I ft
«
r
1
m
m
m
w
r
m
»
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newall’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removable
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
Covering, etc.
With 1" Covering, the saving of heat
effected over Unlagged Pipe is from
to 85% Write for Catalogues.
Y WVTYY '
1 Mf I |
tl ■ WW Ily,
:
82 Pitt St., Sydney.
Prell’s Building's, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
|?VERETT
1
DGCUMBE
Ammeters
REMIER
H W - *
Accumulators
LECTRIC
Car Switch
LEVATORS.
Push Button
x ; L& r A < -)
WAHBDRTON,
FRANKI, LTD.,
307-11 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
380 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
as.
J
' J U
■' -4
mm : 'i
'
A. *
I ~ ■
mmtm
- ...
. a:
■?- I
IMPROVED DESIGNS
Garage Air Compressors.
Simple in construction, accessible and requiring practically no operating attention,
these small CQfVIPRESSOJRS are Specially Designed for Installation in Motor
Garages, small Pneumatic Tool Plants, Starting Gas Engines, etc .
All running parts are large and have suitable adjustments for wear •
Air Cylinders are thoroughly water-jacketed.
Dust-proof— Self-oiling—Noiseless.
SINGLE and DUPLEX TYPES IN STOCK. Write for Prices.
TD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MINERS AND CONTRACTORS."Vi
REDUCE YOUR COSTS
BY USING
CALDWELL’S PATENT SPADES and SHOVELS.
Perfect Solid Steel Blades made in One Piece without welding. Clear from obstructions of any kind with double the life of other makes.
IWSTRONG, HANDY, LIGHT. Stocked in All Sizes and Shapes.
N.GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
