

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— UtYYMn O VVniQfVI
R. <3r. WATKINS SC, CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— _ ,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _______
The DISCRIMINATING WORKING MAN
who would have a truly helpful loan to tide him over his present financial embarrassment, is assured of the lowest interest in
Australia and the easiest of the easy terms when he seeks our aid. Our reputation for straightforward, above-board tran-
sactions to large and small borrowers is known everywhere. We lend from £5 upon Furniture (without removal), Jewellery,
Deeds of Land, Interests under Wills, etc., promptly.
DE
& I. Co. Limited
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street 74, Sydney
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street,
194 George Street West,
155 George Street West,
Sydney
Sydney
, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne 50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
u
kU
Williams's,™! Whisky
EE OBA 3Ft-I*.
(jadleij s Orient fiotel.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING *>-
GUARANTRF,!)
</. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
—
back
it
Take
have
Imust
100
m
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
u
HANSEN'S
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to *
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
With PALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
• M 9
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
——— ——— —
Sl§
WHITE MALTHOID.
Asbestos Coated (Pabco).
The house that is roofed with WHITE MALTHOID is cooler
and healthier to live in than any other. The fashionable
Bungalow, if roofed with ordinary roofings, is decidedly hot and
more often than not unbearable, but if WHITE MALTHOID
be used the temperature in the very hottest day is scarcely
noticeable.
Amongst the tropical portions of California WHITE MAL-
THOID is used to a greater extent than all other materials.
Why have your house hot when WHITE MALTHOID w'ill keep
it delightfully cool?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT 00., CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S V. O.
m
DAVEY PAXMAN
STEAM ENGINES
Portable, Stationary & Traction.
Are the last word In steam engine
construction.
The many improved features are the
result of years of experience and
effort.
It’s to your best interests to investi-
gate. Write now for Catalogue -
Portable types held.
Mat-Virtue SH
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY (near King. Street).
;
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies
in what it deports rather than in what it imports into the system*
STARKEYS LTD.,
Phillip St., Sydney, ana
Agents,
Redfern
V01.33.-No. 1711.]
[Thursday, November 28, 1912.
Registered at the Genera] Post-Office, Sydney; N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


HUDSON’S "EUMENTHOL JUJUBES”
NEW BOOKS
Bemhardi’s Germany and the Next War, 12/6 (4d.).
Hopkin’s The Sheraton Period, Ss. (2d.).
Rudd’s Practical Cabinetmaking, 6/6 (3d.).
Meredith, G.: Letters of George Meredith, 2 vols.,
25/- (Bd.).
Chambers’s Byyjranhical Dictionary, 7/6 (4d.).
Hutchinson’s New Book of Golf, 7/6 (4d.).
Low, D. A.: Practical Geometry, 9/- (3d.).
Roget’s Thesaurus of English Words
ROBERTSON'S,
BOOKSELLERS, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Kent’s Passing of the Manchus, 18/- (6d.).
Cantel’s Adv. Reinforced Concrete Const., 16/- (Bd.).
Proctor: Leather Chemists’ Pocketbook, 6/- (3d.).'
Johnson: Tramps Round the Mountains of the Moon
6/- (3d.).
Boucaut: The Arab Horse, 6/- (4d.).
Motor-boat Annual, 3rd ed„ 2/- (2d.).
Rose: Personality of Napoleon, 6/- (4d.).
and Phrases, new edition, 3/- (3d.).
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC and
PROPHYLACTIC.
SUITABLE FOR OLD and YOUNO.
The Medical Pkess and Circular
says: “These Jujubes should be of
special service to Lecturers, Public
Singers and Speakers, and, indeed,
to all who are called upon to use
their voices frequently for prolonged
periods.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
, or from the Manufacturers,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\\tf>
• >
HU
SON
Price 1/0.
CHEMICAL CO., Limited,
Post Free on Receipt of Stamps.
Strindberg’s Marriage
Tht (Red (Page
The Marriage of H. G. Wells was tlu-
union of two ordinary people ; but here is a
ease of the union of a man of genius with a
degenerate woman, a human document of
the utmost psychological interest, but deal-
ing ’with such abnormal types that its chief
appeal should be only to medical specialists.
\ et The Confession of a Tool, by August
Strindberg (Swift) is an arresting work of
art.
“This is a terrible book,” the author re-
marks, “and I regret that I ever wrote it.
“1 low did I 6ome to write it?
“I hail to wash my corpse before it was
laid in its coffin. .». .The novel has been
written. I can die in peace.”
“It was the outspoken account of his
first marriage.” he elsewhere remarks,
“written in self-defence and as a last testa-
ment, for he intended to take his rife as
soon as the bbok was finished. For five
years the sealed manuscript, which was not
meant for publication, was in the safe keep-
ing of a relative. Only in the spring of
1893 (the book was written in 1888), under
the pressure of circumstances and after pub-
lic opiuion and the press had attacked him
in the most unjust manner, did he sell the
book to a publisher.”
The Confession of a Fool was published,
in a mutilated edition, in German; but it
has never been published in Swedish, his
own language, because not only was it too
personal in character, but it also revealed
a still bleeding wound. “Doubtless,” his
translator says, “a man for whom life holds
no longer any charm would give us a genu-
inely truthful account of his inner life
The great importance of The Confession of
g Fool lies in the fact that it depicts the
struggle of a highly intellectual man to free
himself from the slavery of sexuality, and
from a woman who is a typical representa-
tive of her sex.” But if the Baroness is
typical of her sex, her sex ought to be
smudged out. The translator is on surer
ground when he says—
One sees Strindberg brooding over his own
soul to fathom its depths, lie plumbs its
hidden profoundnesses, he takes to pieces the
inner wheels of its mechanism, so as to know
for himself and to show us how he is made
and what is the cause of the instinct which
drives him to confess and to create. He
opens wide his heart and lets us see that
he carries in his breast his heaven and also
his horrible hell.
In this story of the first marriage of a
man who married three times, the crises
are in his inner life and the logical outcome
of the mating of two such incompatible
beings. When he met his future wife she
was the wife of a baron. Strindberg was a
poor, unknown librarian, a bourgeoise; and
to him the Baron and his wife represented
the aristocracy. Only at the end of the
book does a whisper come to him that prior
to her marriage- Marie had been a loose
woman, and of the lower classes. But in
manner she was all that a Baroness should
be. Strindberg’s snobbish admiration of her
turns insensibly into love; but he makes
the most valiant efforts to conceal his
passion, actually tries to escape her fascina-
tion by fleeing in a steamer—and compels the
captain to put him ashore in the pilot’s boat
before the ship cleared Swedish waters.
Then he adopts toward her an attitude of
indifference and contempt; but the honest
struggle is all in vain; he confesses his
innocent love to her, and she lets him read
her confession in her eyes. Then, innocent
of actual adultery, he does the manly thing,
and confesses his infatuation to the Baron.
The curious thing is that Strindberg likes
the Baron, and the Baron feels the need of
his society. A divorce is arranged on the
public ground that her position as the wife
of a Baron debars her from going on the
stage, for which this Finnish woman had a
mistaken liking.
There was surely warning enough before
his marriage to her, for any man but Strind-
berg, the utter slave to her mere physical
fascinations, that only disaster could come
from such a mating. Even before her mar-
riage to him, he felt “a mad desire to escape
from this prison where I was watched by an
enemy, kept spell-bound by a witch.”
“But the anxiety for her future oppressed
me like a nightmare; I felt responsible for
her, who was a stranger to me, for her un-
born children, for the support of her mother,
the whole family, for centuries to come. I
should make it my business to procure for
her successes on the stage; I should bear
all her sorrows, her disappointments, her
failures, so that one day she could throw
me in the dust like a squeezed-out lemon—
me, my whole life, my brain, the marrow of
my spine, my life-blood; all in exchange for
the love which I gave her, and which she
accepted and called ‘sacrificing herself to me.’
Delusion of love! hypnotism of passion!”
And then some aspect of her physical
charms overpower him, and he lies in the
dust before her, a shorn Samson.
“The influence of that little female brain,
so different from the brain of a man, dis-
turbed and disordered the mechanism of my
thoughts She had become my living
poem; she had taken the place of my van-
ished talent. Her personality was grafted
on mine and was dominating it. I existed
only through her; I, the mother-root, led an
underground life, nourishing this tree which
was growing sunwards and promising won-
derful blossoms. I delighted in its marvel-
lous beauty, never dreaming that the day
would come when the olTshoot would separate
from the exhausted trunk, to bloom anc
dazzle independently, proud of the borrowec
splendor.”
His marriage with the divorced baroness
is frankly incredible. ..but for the fact that
it happened. In the interval between her
divorce and her re-marriage this woman
had degenerated shockingly. The clear eyes
of the man saw all the warning evidences,
but passion blinded him; and Marie claimed
his honor, for she was expecting a child.
“I marched into that prison which all fear,
but which, perhaps, we had less cause to
dread than others, since we had foreseen all
dangers, removed all stumbling blocks
And yet”....
Jl
And marriage was, for a' time, happi-
ness. But the child died, and there arrived
two intruders, a blear-eyed little monster of
a King Charles spaniel, whom Marie wor-
shipped, and a horrible old maid. And the
baron calls again. And Marie gives plain
proof of her appalling degeneracy. Strind-
berg is threatened with insanity; frightful
quarrels and dreadful reconciliations make
the grim rhythm of their lives; but ever the
thought of the future of his children pre-
vents Strindberg divorcing his degraded
mate. And h,e was too weak a man to
“stoush” her, though at last he summons up
his courage to strike her. “Why”’ he asks,
as he sees her humble and contrite, “why
had I not known this before? If I had
struck her 10 years ago, I should now have
been the happiest of husbands. Remember
this, my brothers, if ever you are deceived
by a woman !”
There you have Strindberg’s bitter philo-
sophy. One doubts whether it is worth any-
thing to anybody but Strindberg. The rest
of the book is frankly horrible. At the end
the author “appeals to the reader for a ver-
dict after a careful study of my confession.
Perhaps he will find in it elements of the
physiology of love, some light on the patho-
logy of the soul, or even a strange fragment
of the philosophy of crime.”
This jury is agreed on that verdict, but
adds a rider to the effect that the book is
not for'any but mature readers.
A Hero to His Valet
Francois, Maupassant's admirable valet,
saw a hero in his master. His Recollections
of Guy de Maupassant (Lane, per Sydney
Book Club) show us the man of genius val-
etted by a servant of genius. When Mau-
passant exclaims of the sea, “How beautiful
it is! What a splendid tint!” Francois ad-
mirably adds, “I, too, thought it splendid!”
And he naively tells us at the beginning
of his connection with the author that “Mau-
passant is a very clever man, and has
already published: several books.”
Most interesting are the details that the
valet gives of Maupassant’s intense cultiva-
tion of his powers of observation.
“You understand, Francois, to see and
distinguish, the eye must be educated ; there-
fore, when you look, you must notice every-
thing ; never be content with want of pre-
cision ; you must give time for the eye to
define and to follow out those things which
are but faintly visible. It is only by slow
and patient practice that you can make your
eyes do all the work they are capable of.”
Again and again does Francois note the
pains that his master took to observe accur-
ately, to store in his mind some passing im-
pression with not one detail missing. And
Maupassant once made the confession that,
“Wherever I am, anything I see, as long
as it is interesting, becomes for me an object
of study.... though I sometimes struggle
hard not to think And yet I do not allow
myself to be entirely absorbed, as Flaubert
was. Nothing but his work existed for him;
his prose and his person formed one block.
He never would have disturbed himself to
go to his publisher to get the money that
was owed him.... A writer must only
describe wliat he has felt.... One must not
only understand it, one must either love or
hate it.”
Francois describes a lunch Maupassant
gave to Zola :—•
Just like two cats watching each other,
the two great novelists would throw a glance
at each other, then look into their plates, as
if really the contents thereof were of im-
mense importance. .. .The conversation was
very ordinary, literature was hardly men-'
tioned. They talked in snatches by fits and
starts.
After praising Zola’s work, Maupassant
told Francois: “As for himself, personally,”
with bitterness and repulsion, “I don’t like
him at all!”
It is a delightful picture that Francois ’
draws of the intimacies of his master’s life'.
We see him interested in all the details of
his country house, getting smoother paper, so
as not to disturb the kitten on his desk by
the scratching of his pen, taking great voy-
ages on his yacht, conversing with delight
with his clever and charming mother, play-
ing school-boy tricks on his friends, inter-
ested in, and pestered by, too many women
—but Francois, with his valet-soul, is usually
discreet, though he cannot too often express
his indignation at the vampire- woman on
whom he puts the blame of Maupassant’s
final mental breakdown.
Maupassant had a head so round that he
never could wear a ready-made hat. He
gravely gave this curious explanation to his
valet:—
“The old doctor who was present at our
birth, immediately took us between his knees,
and vigorously massaged our heads, finishing
by the gesture of the potter rounding his pot
by a stroke of the thumb. He then said to
mother: ‘You see, Madame, I have made him
a head round as an apple, which, be sure,
will later on give him a most active brain,
and intelligence of first-class order.’ He
did the same with my poor brother, but
whether the six years between us had weak-
ened the doctor’s hands, or whether he was
not in such good form, he never succeeded in
giving that small head the shape he
wished. ... Sometimes I ask myself if really
it is on account of the doctor’s massage that
I can now accomplish with such ease so
much more than the average quantity of
work.”
The book is a curiosity of biography,
pleasant and piquant.
— ■■■». — )
The author of How McDaugall Topped
the Score and Mrs. McSweeney , the late
Thos. E. Spencer, shows to advantage in his
last book, Bindawalla, an Australian novel,
which has the distinction—if distinction it
be—of being the largest book ever issued by
the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.- as Bindawalla
runs only to 83,000 words, it is evident that
the Australian locally published novel is on
the average considerably shorter than the
English novel. Bindawalla is the usual
Australian bush story, capably written on
the descriptive level, with little attempt at
psychology. The types are of the stock
patterns laid down by generations of novel-
ists, the ingredients the invariable incidents
—the squatter’s son that loved the selec-
tor’s daughter, who from her poverty—the
one obstacle to her marfiage—rose to be
another Melba} and had the grovelling feli-
city of singing before the Queen, the
shearers’ strike, the burning of the wool-
shed, the rascally storekeeper who swindled
the squatter’s son out of his inheritance, the
forged will, and, ultimately, the villain un-
masked, and wedding bells. All prosaically
done—all, from the point of view of art,
of no value. Yet the thing is honest; and
there are touches of observation. Thus of
the heroine’s entrance: “At this mo-
ment the singer appeared above the crest
of the ridge. Leslie at first caught a mere
glimpse, but that was enough to show him
that she was riding on a man’s saddle, and
in man fashion. He had barely time to note
this much when she disappeared behind a
rock. It Was, not a large rock. As the
horse’s tail disappeared on one side its head
emerged from the other; but when the girl
again came into view she was riding in the
most approved feminine style, and the skirts
of her dress- —for she wore no habit —were
neatly arranged around her ankles.”
No criticism is possible, unless a howl of
delight be criticism, of Norman Lindsay's
Book, published by the N.S.W. Bookstall
Co., for its invariable shilling. Assuredly
no other artist exists who could combine so
much technical artistry with so much sheer
humor in one book as Norman Lindsay. The
cover alone will make the book’s appeal
irresistible; and such full-page drawings as
“The Rival Models,” “The Modern Mar-
iner,” “My Ancestors,” reveal the artist in
every astonishing aspect of his versatility ;
while his types of “The Spoils of Travel”
and his “Billy Bluegum” and rooster fan-
tasies, illustrating his own humorous verses,
will be avidly received by the public he has
created. Nearly 70 drawings by this ’ one
artist, and humorous stories by Edward
Dyson, Montague Grover, “Kodak,” G. J.
Dennis, Granville Sedley and Norman Lind-
say form appetising hors-d’oeuvres to this
feast of artistic humor.
There is no reason why Will J. Sowden,
editor of the Adelaide Register, should not
have published in book form a number of the
speeches he has made, with the accurate title
of An Australian Native’s Standpoint (Mac-
millan). There is also no reason why. any-
body in Australia should read them, for
though they are all “good Australian,” they
are too familiar and commonplace for our
interest. Doubtless, however, the book is
destined to educate the other continents.
But the mere reprint of speeches, some ’ of
them out of date, is not the most readable or
most informative method of showing his
patriotism.
Libraries and Edycation (George Robert-
ertson, Melb.) comprises a series of essays
by E. Morris Miller, of the Public Library,
Melb., dealing with libraries in relation to
education, school libraries and school read-
ing. wu-itten in reference to Australian con-
ditions.
The Dark Tower, by Alan D. Mickle
(Walter Scott, per Thos. G. 0. Lothian.
Melb.), contains a multitude of tabloid
essays, most of which do not exceed one
page of print, on characters in fiction and
on certain people of importance. Sanely
written and stimulating to the lover of
books.
Verses by Louis Esson
Back tkr Little Lon
Kenie e l' ' usband eighteen months
In ’er cottage, Rente sadly struggled on—
Left P Mtp’yf lU lamentin ’’ w ’ eu sl »e went
Lik "ittte S ’ t L o n‘!“ P .** *«
Baclc ter Little Lon, where the flarin' bar
joint and fish-shop, and the buskers
Ymn’ ter the pushes, dodgin’ D. and .John
among her cobbers, back ter Little
Bil1 ’ 6r lumper - found h er there one
Hooked ’er inter supper for er friendly
Bm W bri-ht UCk ’ gol ' blilße ' Renie looked so
With ei paint an’ powder, feathers in ’er
at.
Down at Port ’e took er ’ouse—Bid wV
never mean— /
Booked 'er in er solemn church as ’is law-
ful wife;
Sprung er weddin’ blow-out—proud ’e w’z
o Ren ,
Yet she ankered after summut rortier
lire.
Tired o’ ’ousehold duties, seldom w’z -she
found
Scrubbin’ floors an’ washin’-up—them
w z fain fergets ;
Pale she looked an’ troubled, tho’ she lazed
eround,
Siftin’ on tlier doorstep, puffin’ cigarettes.
Time w’z ’angin’ ’eavy, w’en she tired o’
-Bill.
Nuthin’ seemed ter ’appen then —jov, nor
even pain :
Once I seen ’er cryin’ o’er tlier winder-sill,
Wow yer sees ’er, over there, laughin’
down the lane.
Somethin’ seemed to call ’er —’t’w’z ther iov
o’ life — J '
And them ribald alleys lured ’er on and
on.
’S’truth,, she couldn’t ’elp it, tho’ she w’z
is wife,
Now she’s on with Dido, back in Little
Lon.
Rack ter Little Lon, where the blazin’ bar,
Lights an’ fights, an’ fish-shops, and her
cobbers are.
Yappin ' ter ther pushes, dodgin’ D. and
John,
Renie’s dyin’ ’appy now, back in Little Lon.
Change.
Everything fades and passes
Like dew from the summer grasses.
Thebes and Memphis of old
The ,dust of the ages hold.
Pale scholars now adore
The Cretan Minotaur.
And wild goats penetrate
.Mykene’s Lion-Gate.
The statesman plots and plans,
The tinker mends pots and pans.
Pots adust be mended again, -
Empires dissolve like rain.
Achilles’ noble craze
"Sets Troy town in a blaze.
The thunderoUs herd’s glory
Will make a children’s story.
And sack of sacred citv
The young men’s drinking ditty.
Nor Art remains, in sooth,
To check Time’s venomed tooth.
Of air sweet songs are made,
The loveliest frescoes fade.
The sculptor carves in snow,
Even great Angelo.
Father of Death and Life
Is Change, and child of Strife.
Life flows like a swift stream,
A cloud, a smoke, a dream.
Our hopes and fears, they pass
Like shadows on the grass.
We learn the legend’s pith,
Man. too. is but a myth.
(Prom “Red Gums and Other Verses,”
ty Louis Esson.)
Slight, but typically Australian, are the
verses in Red Gums and Other Verses , by
Louis Esson( Frazer and Jenkinson, Melb.).
Most of them have, of course, appeared in
The Bulletin. Ess on has nothing very
new or very individual to say, but he says
it very neatly. His verses have thought in
them; humor, too, but no emotion. Here
is not a singer singing because he must, but
a writer writing because lie knows how to
-write.' His larrikin poems, supplementing
his striking one-act dramas of Melbourne
mean streets, sound his one characteristic
note. The rest is pleasant phrasing by a
capable pen. This little book will do Esson’s
reputation no good and no harm. It is
almost unnecessary to ads that Esson has,
in Australia, already a reputation.


V
Anthony Horderns’ for the Summer Fashions
m feiilll
m
\ \vKv
mk'-Nm
w~ \\.^ q
a :
151
281
» / 2001 -jjjar
Vpr/&*f6 /e/e W /n p eadv . to .f^ r Pohcs
381
No. 151. Kobe Costume, Of plain Linene, has new front side fastening, finished
collar and cuffs of White Embroidery and self buttons. Colors: Biscuit, Sky, Brown,
Amethyst of White 16/6
No. 881. One-piece Kobe Costume, of Washable Cotton Crepe, White ground
with Saxe, Brown or Black Stripes, yoke and deep band at foot of plain Crepe to
match stripe, finished White Net Lace Insertion 27/6
No. 2001. Useful One-piece Costume, Of plain Linene, nicely cut and relieved
Black pipings and self buttons; in Sky, Grey, Navy or White 9/11
No. 281. — Smart Washing Robe Costume, of. plain Cotton Crepe, trimmed
Lace Yoke, and contrasting White revers and cuffs with colored stripe to tone.
Brown, Dark Grey, Dove Grey, Navy and White 14/9
These four Costumes stocked in S.W., W., and Outsize^
ikr
:io
9n Wi <3
L. v xO
O v
i •
481
436
No. 436. Coat and Skirt Costume, of good quality Colored Linen; Coat is
25in. length, finished with cuffs, collars and large revers of White Linen ; Panel Skirt
has piped bands at side gores. Colors: Old Hose, Navy, Biscuit, Brown and Black.
S.W., W., and Outsizes 15/6
No. 405. Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, of White Linen; Coat has shaped
panel back, with collars, revers and cuffs faced in colored contrast and pipings,
finished large White Linen buttons; perfectly cut plain Skirt. In S.W., W„ and
Outsizes 29 /6
No. 503.—Blouse and Skirt Costume, of good quality Cambric, light ground
with Fawn, Saxe, Rose, Helio and Navy Stripe; Blouse has pointed yoke at back,
dressed self collar, bow, and front pleats, piped contrasting shades to tone. S.W.,
W., and Outsizes 8/11
No. 481. — Useful Robe Costume, of White Cotton Crepe, with Saxe, Brown or
Black Stripes, finished collar and cuffs of White' Guipure, buttons and pipings to
match stripes. S.W., W., and Outsizes 17/6
Top Quality
at Bottom
Price
is the Golden
Rule at the
New Palace
Emporium,
the Home of
Anthony
Horderns’
Famous
Low Prices,
acknowledged
to he the
Lowest in the
Land.
Our Illustrated
Price Lists place
the immense
resources of the
NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM at the
command of
Everyone in Aus-
tralia. Write for
copies of any-
thing you want,
post free on
request, and reap
the full benefit of
our Unique
System of SPOT
CASH TRADING.
Send for our
Xmas Price Lists
of Groceries and
Xmas Cheer,
Popular Presents,
Books, also Guide
to Piccaninnies’
Paradise; they
will solve the
present problem.
’ ef Gncfflc
OUS&S
i
*
13306
635
842
1109
634
!
r--z
Si
ss ' \v
No. 842. White Muslin Blouse, finely tucked and embroidered front, finished
Malines insertion 5/11
No. 635. — Dainty Magyar Blouse, of White Cotton Voile, square neck, inlet
Valenciennes insertion 10/6
No. 13306. — White Muslin Ma g'yar Blouse, embroidered front, fasten at
back r 8/n
No. 1109. — White Muslin Magyar Blouse, pretty embroidered yoke, finished
Valenciennes insertion and tucks 6/6;
No. 634. — Dainty White Cotton Voile Magyar Blouse, Guipure yoke,
f-sleeves edged with Guipure Lace 12/6
No. 11383.—White Muslin Magyar Blouse, trimmed embroidered Muslin
and Valenciennes insertion 8/11
No. 567. — Tussore Silk Shirt Blouse, fasten at front, finished Guipure
collar 10/6
-
S
if
352
2032
50re (o s tumes /p am ous
> (w/^nt6on y Horcferrxs'’ -
8301
No. 352. — Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, of fine Silk and Wool Poplin,
Tussore shade only; Coat has deep Sailor Collar, Revers and Cuffs turned back,
with folds of self and finished fine Cream Guipure and self buttons. Plain, well-cut
Skirt 37/6
No. 2032. One-piece Robe Costume, of Natural Tussore Silk, finished colored
Satin Pipings and sets of small Enamel Buttons to match. All sizes 17/6
No. 18. Effective Robe Costume, Of Natural Tussore Silk, finished colored
pipings and Buttons to match. All sizes 25/6
No. 8301. — Smart Robe Costume, Of “San Toy” Resilda; has yoke of Tinsel
Net, contrast pipings and Silk Embroidery to match, in Navy, Silver Grey and
Biscuit 39/6
Also, similar design in plain Tussore Silk, No. 1020. All sizes 38/6
dgmous Jowj&n/ces
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Important to Smokers.
Virginia
CIGARETTES
The unsurpassed enjoyment afforded by “Winfred”
cigarettes is a subject that is never debated ; they are the
final answer to the question, “ which are the best cigar-
ettes ? ” They raised the standard of cigarette
quality, a standard not
reached to this day by any
other brand.
r t&
V \
M
o
c>
&
20
l /-
Cigarette * are obtainable of all Leading
"tobacconists, Club*, Hotels, Stores, etc,
throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers of Winfred Cigarettes ■'
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.,
Britain's Greatest High-class
Cigarette Factory,
LONDON
En£.
io
6d.
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
cw
rr
Dpi
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and tilling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary ; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the °us >
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptiona y
cheap as regards lighting costs, the nser being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems ol petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready tor tights,
fans, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaftcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
N.S.W. Agents—
W. G. WATSON &CO. LIMITED,
171 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
■ ■ ■
Points Worth Knowing
A Tinned Tack or the “business end” of a pin do not come under
But, when you want an Engine is a different subject
Whaf pricks 1 a man most is the fact that he has purchased an article
which is a failure. . , „
By calling direct upon us, you can avoid anything in the nature oi
trouble, as
Steam Engines
Marshall’s
WORLD
FAMED
f=*
I
ts
Arc Positively the VERY BEST MADE.
HP-ONLY ONE QUALITY.
LIGHT & HEAVY TRACTIONS.
PORTABLES, all sizes.
Horizontal & Vertical Stationary.
BOILERS, Vertical and Colonial.
OIL TRACTORS for Dry Districts.
Write for Particulars
Cash or Easy Terms.
COINING MONEY!
Positively the Quickest Money-maker on Earth is
THE “BIG CHIEF” OIL ENGINE
Starts instantaneously—Stops when re-
quired. No expense whatever when
engine is idle. What a contrast to or-
dinary “Farm horse” power. Don’t
forget, horses want feeding “all the
time.” Fitted with Wizard Magneto,
Extended Crank Shaft, Double Fly-
wheels. All latest up-to-date improve-
ments. Terms so easy that everyone
requiring power may become the owner
of a First-Class Engine in a few months.
Discount for Cash. Write for Cata-
logues. Best value in the world.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
THE COUNTER ATTRACTION.
[Fojt The Bulletin.]
The member of the W'.O.T.U. (Melb.), whose duty
it has been to visit public houses, and endeavor to
dissuade drinkers from the drink, is retiring ‘ r ° rn
the position. She earnestly recommends that the
next member taking up the task be young and pretty
—“if possible, as attractive as a barmaid.’
She comes into the city pub,
A creature radiantly fine.
The greedy lunchers at their grub,
The thirsty drinkers at their wine,
All turn where she, among the smoke
By cigarette and fat cigar made,
Stands like an empress to provoke
The wonder of the common bloke.
A lady she,
More good to see,
And more alluring than a barmaid.
Her hair is bright as beaten gold,
Her eyes are blue as summer’s sea;
Her figure has the Juno mould
And Aphrodite’s symmetry;
Her cheeks hold such delicious pink
As fringes Bolger’s new carnation.
She’s come to win us from the sink
Of wickedness, from cards and drink;
To draw away
Each silly jay
From barmaids, billiards and darnation.
The Hebe beckoning to beer
Has quite an easy task, they say,
Since bald and blighted mortals here
Have all a tendency that way;
But Martha from the C.T.IJ.
Needs shine more fair than such a daughter
To fires eternal Adam’s crew
The barmaids lure. How sweet to view,
How ravishing,
That dear young thing
Must be who lures mankind to water.
EDDYSON.
VICTORIA.
Sydney Harbor in its upper reaches is already
crossed by three bridges, all low level and revolving,
and consequently inconveniencing a big volume of
road traffic. The language used by the traffic when
suddenly confronted by a yawning chasm where a
bridge should be is awful, especially when it is dis-
covered that the cause is a wretched puffing 2-goat-
power lighter. Six months ago the Harbor liust
notified owners that the bridges would not open tor
lighters after Jan. 1 next, thus giving plenty ot
time for alteration to masts, etc. Private Enterprise
reckoned, however, that the notice was a blurt, and
did nothing. But P.E. suddenly awoke to find that
the Harbor Trust was in earnest. An indignation
meeting was thereupon hurriedly called to induce the
Trust to alter the regulation. Someone moved that
ex-Gaud-Mayor Allen Taylor take the chair; but
when it was discovered that Taylor was not present,
but was busy attending to his job of chopping down
his own lighters’ masts, the meeting fizzled out.
When last heard of Private- Enterprise was rounding
up shipwrights in great haste to make the necessary
alterations in every lighter on the premises.
“Hamer”: “Bong” is the trade name among bar-
bers for wire-whislcers. When a person with a chinful
of tangled scrub enters the saloon, you’ll see the oper-
ators begin to scheme to dodge him ; they speed up
or hang back in order to avoid the unbarbered en-
tanglements. Rows in shaving saloons are more often
due to particular “chairs’-’ being let in for an unfair
proportion of “bongs” than to any other cause.
“B. J.”' : Howard Smith’s Edina, the slow but un-
sinkable old tub which has been running between
Geelong and Melbourne for the last 32 years, has
been replaced by the Mourilyan. The Edina was
built at Glasgow in 1854, and is alleged to have car-
ried troops to the Crimea picnic. According to all
the rules of the game, the old ark should many a
time have fallen into the hands of D. Jones; but
whether it was another ship or a gale that struck
the warrior, the other party always had the worse of
the argument.
♦ * * *
“Hermes”: In these days of exorbitant rent and
consequent high-priced board and lodging, I often
wonder where the poor casual workers live. Drifting
round every large city is a small army of men who
get only a few hours of the worst-paid work in a
week. Derelicts, weaklings, wasters of all kinds and
genuine unfortunates who were once better off, all of
them earn quite insufficient to pay for regular board
or lodging in even the cheapest of quarters. 1 have
never felt any warm spot in my heart for the Salv’
army, but last week I stumbled on one of the institu-
tions wherein it is doing genuine work. At the bot-
tom of Liverpool-street, Sydney, is a tall brick building
which was once a warehouse or something of the sort.
It now belongs to the Army, and every night it ac-
commodates 300 men at prices ranging from 4d. to 9d.
per night—or 2s 4d. to 4s. 6d. per week. For 4s 6d.
per week a man gets a cubicle to himself, with
electric light over his bed. For 6d. and 4d. per night
he has to be content with a bed in a dormitory. But
they are good beds, of iron, with a wire mattress
strung on the frame —as springy and comfortable as
one could get anywhere. Each man has his own
towel, and the place is excellently well ventilated.
Moreover it has what few lodging houses have—
ample means of escape in case of fire. Ihe fact that
this place is rushed nightly and has been all through
the era of prosperity is a nasty commentary on mod-
ern civilisation. The Army has now bought another
five-storey building at the back, and will fit it up in
a similar manner, after which it will supply 698
cheap beds to the homeless poor of Sydney. It also
contemplates a hot-water service whereby it will be
able to do something towards making clean those
whom it fails to make godly.
“W” : Purveyors of vegetables and fruit in Ade-
laide have entered into something like a conspiracy
to keep up prices. Recently a gardener emptied out
a load of cauliflowers because the hawkers would not
buy them lest they should have to reduce their prices.
He had an idea of hawking them himself ; but they
promptly threatened to boycott him if he attempted
to sell direct to the public. There is too much of
this wilful destruction of food with the direct object
of keeping up prices, and if there isn t any law that
will hit the malefactors there ought to be.
* * *
“Wyn de Wiff” : Within the last few days a num-
ber of Ballina (N.S.W.) residents have received
copies of the “store report” of a Japanese Arm of
merchants, dated October 12, mailed direct from
Kobe. This store report consists, in part, ot a cir-
cular which starts this way:
“Since we had the pleasure of issusing our Cata-
logue, we are gratified to find that it has been wel-
corned by our Customers, not only in Japan but m
many foreign countries, and that our mail order
business has been greatly enhanced by the patronage
extended to us by our distant Customers, who have
entrusted us with their esteemed orders, for which
we beg to tender them our sincere thanks.
“The postage from Australia to Japan is—letters,
21d. ; postcards, lid.”
The report includes a price-list. The whole lot is
in English, and is evidently an Australian edition of
a price-list intended for foreign circulation It is
advertising a retail business on a mammoth scale,
and seems to me to be part of a large-sized, well
organised attempt to seize a big slab of the world s
commerce. Will Minister Tudor be good Australian
enough to see that the tariff wall is high enough to
prevent the goods following the report?
* * *
“Wandilla”: It’s cheap— that’s why lots of people
Wowse.


«e
wo
‘‘M&'iniiiiSSXt&Spittk'
Wonthaggl,
Victoria.
LUDBROOK’S STORB
WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
Jh
V£' - ' ■/ k „? . 1 V ff
■V 1 ’ s ' '
“ Ml ■- V* BreffSaaß® ■
■ •_
“ Yamala,”
Frankston, Vic.
SIR JOHN MADDEN
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
“Yamala,” Frankston,
Dear Sirs, — January 3, 1911.
I send you herewith my cheque for the Aerogen Machine which you supplied to me, as
per your account enclosed.
The light is perfect, and the installation the simplest possible and most convenient.
We find that anyone can manage it with care and complete safety, and it has brought a very
definite joy to my house here in the complete banishment of the kerosene lamps. Our
servants are content, and the cost seems likely to be much lessened.
With many thanks, Very truly yours, (Sgd.) JOHN MADDEN.
28 Hunter Street, Sydney,
November 28, 1911.
Dear Sirs, —
I am writing to let you know how pleased I am with the Aerogen Gas Machine which
you installed at my home, “Clydesdale,” about three months ago. Everything has been
most satisfactory, the machine proving very simple to work, and also very economical.
The light is excellent, both for ordinary use in the house, and for the billiard table. I
will be only too glad to personally recommend it to anyone.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) GEORGE G. KISS.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON : W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA: A. Barrau.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA: Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
r 'Ringing for More! y
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success.
Valuable alike
for
the
Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
A r*oi rct> inHiorpctirm sinH flatlflp.nC£.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
THE LONE HAND
"D. 8 S.”
600 Volt.
‘Grip Contact” Circuit Breakers
m
The Automatic Switches made by Dorman & Smith embody many important patented features,
and the most important of these is the CONTACT GRIPPING DEVICE.
The contact arm and blades are of substantial construction, and they move over the contact faces
in such a manner that the faces keep themselves clean by friction, when the switch is opened or
closed.
When the switch arm is moving, or when the trigger is released, the pressure on the contact faces,
which is produced by a spring, is just enough to ensure a good contact, but is light enough and has
sufficient range to ensure the switch opening with absolute certainty under all circumstances.
When the switch arm is closed and the trigger is engaged, the contact arm and contact blade are
“gripped” together on to the contact block by means of a lever-gripping device, ensuring an efficient
electrical contact, and cool working at full load.
It is when the circuit is to he opened that the most important function of this construction is
made use of The operation of the trigger either by hand or by the automatic control simultaneously
releases the grip on the contact blocks. The contact faces are then only lightly pressed together, and
it is quite impossible for the contacts to stick even if rough or burnt, or for the circuit breaker to fail
to immediately open.
The advantages of this method of construction are:—
(a) The contact faces are kept clean by friction when opening and closing the switch.
(h) The gripping device ensures cool working when the switch is closed.
(c) The releasing of the “grip,” when the trigger is operated, ensures the switch opening with
certainty under all circumstances.
This series of Circuit Breakers is arranged with a secondary switch, which is closed after the
primary switch, when the latter is independent of the operator’s hand, and is free to open immediately.
The advantage of using the Dorman & Smith SECONDARY SWITCH is that the primary switch
may be used to close a relay circuit for the reverse current, or no voltage control, before the main
circuit is made.
All these automatic switches are arranged to give a DONG BREAK, and the final arc takes place
between SUBSTANTIAL CARBON BLOCKS. In the larger sizes intermediate renewable copper
sparking contacts are also employed.
These switches are not made with a magnetic blow-out. the magnetic blow-out may be
of advantage at some voltages, the long break of the D. & S. circuit breakers is much safer than
the instantaneous rupture of a magnetic blow 7 -out, with the attendant risk of breakdown of the
insulation of the windings of generators or motors working at 500 volts.
All the switches are closed, and the contacts gripped, BY THE MOVEMENT OF ONE HANDLE
ONLY, and all the switches are arranged so that the tripping gear can at any time be CONVENI-
ENTLY ACTUATED BY HAND.
SOLE AGENTS—
30 to 3000
Amperes.
163 Clarence Street,
-•^SYDNEY
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,


WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8 ; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, lOd. ;
Brough’s Secret of Stage
Make-Up, 1/4 ; Sixteen
Amusing Farces, 1/1 ;
Thirteen One-Act Farces,
1/1; Twenty Humorous
Dialogues, 1/1 ; Home
Amusements, 1/1; “How
Old Mose Counted the
Eggs” and 116 Other
Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic
Recitations, 1/1 ; “How
Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dialect Re-
citations, 1/1 ; 1401 Con-
undrums and Riddles,
1/1 ; Art of Ventrilo-
quism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clairvoy-
ance, 1/1; Amateur Con-
Diminishing
Cards.
O r dinary
Playing
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altogether.
Complete,
with full in-
struct i on s;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3j-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
and ANY BOOK YOU WANT.'-*!
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Mention The Bulletin. juring Book, 7d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made !
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 14
For -22 Short R.F., -22 Long R.F., and -22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2flb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Ho-’d more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
Mlh
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [4
STONEHENGE
suggests vast strength
and solidity, qualities
which have been evinced,
in a remarkable degree
in the Tyres manu-
factured by The Avon
India Rubber Co., Ltd.,
and which explain the
origin of the Avon
trade mark.
AVON TYRE
The British tyres that rule the road and give sound service longest.
Other
Specialities
of this Firm
include :
AVON INDIA RUBBER CO., LTD.,
: MELKSHAM, ENGLAND. =
Branches at London, Bristol, Birmingham.
Cable Codes: “ A.B.C. sth Edition ” and “Western Union.*'
Manchester and Glasgow.
Stockist:
H. C. PANNIFAX, Melbourne.
m
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETiut. «, CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
Their great factory at Melksham, near
Stonehenge, in Wiltshire, England, is
unexcelled throughout the world for
modernity and perfection of equipment,
and every tyre produced is an embodi-
ment of the finest skill and experience
applied to the highest grades of material
AVON
Trade Mark.
Mechanical Rubber
for Railways.
Avon Buffer and Draw-
bar Springs, Brake
Materials, Body
Fittings, Valves, Hose
etc., specially adapted
for use in the tropics.
Contractors to the
principal State Rail-
ways.
Cycle and Motor
Cycle Tyres.
With special rubber
treads in several
grades, made specially
to withstand the effects
of hot oiimates.
JAY
F//V
Irinka®
For Motor Cycle Covers.
Clinched-on. A special
combination of Rubber
and Steel Studs placed
alternately round the
tread. Hexagon
rubber-studded, round
rubber - studded and
fluted patterns. Thick
tough treads and extra
strong casings.
Solid Tyres for Motors, &c.
Avon Band Tyres for
passenger ’busses and
other heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on sections
from ai-in. to 5-in.,
suitable for the lighter
type of motor vehicles
up to 2-ton vans. Solid
tyres for Carriages,
Cabs, Rickshas, &c.
Golf Balls.
Made up on a special
centre which forms the
nucleus for the winding
of Para tape. This
arrangement produces
a ball which flies very
true and is especially
suitable for expert
players.
Avon Ball, 2/- each.
Nova Ball, 1/3 each.
t&mlngtQio
'TRADE MARK
Remington?UMC 22 Calibre
Cartridges are accurate and
uniform. The best shooters
the world over use them.
19
20
21
20
21
21
20
13
21
23
13
The World’s Record
At 75 Feet, Standing.
This target shows the highest record ever made in a 100-Shot 22 Calibre
Match. The match took place in March 1911, at the Zcttlcr Gallery,
blow York, the winner being Arthur Hubalek with a score of 2404
out of a possible 2500. Mr. Hubalek used Remington-UMC Lcsmok.
Cartridges. This stands as the highest record ever made and is a
score which probably will stand for many years betbre it is broken.
REMINGTON-UMC BLACK, “LESMOK” AND SMOKELESS
POWDER CARTRIDGES FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
EVERYWHERE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Works : Birmingham, England
Seven
Prize Medals^
Make it a habit—use
regularly.
Perfect sanitation being so necessary for health, disinfection
is imperative. Make a practice of using IZAL every day—
just a little, diluted with water—pouring it down drains,
sinks and w.c.’s, and sprinkling it in dustbins or other
harbours of filth. Get IZAL, because it positively kills disease
germs, stops infection and instantly removes bad smells
IZAL—the guaranteed disinfectant of unrivalled
Strength —is the pioneer modern high power germicide.
One Gallon of
IZAL makes
400 gallons of
efficient disin-
fecting fluid.
LU
n
m
,rr z-flu
V»T
Chamat*** 0
Officially adopted throughout
the British Empire.
Mixes equally well with
salt, brackish or fresh
water.
Write for Free Booklet—
“ Practical Disinfection.”,
Agents :
T. K. STEANES,
37-43 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
'-^TRADEMARK
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE mn
GUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.


RUNKENNESS Cured.
RICH HAIR
LONG HAIR
Would you like this kind?
Rich, heavy hair? Beautiful, lux-
uriant hair ? That is perfectly nat-
ural, and we are here to help you. I
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard— secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a tew days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
It
IMPROVE YOUR FICUREf
nr
Every Thin Woman Can be Fully Developed
Every Fat Person Can be Reduced to Normal
Ayer's
Hair Vigor
FAT PEOPLE. Excess fat
injures your health, impedes
your movements, and makes
you the butt of your unfeel-
ing normal - weight friends.
People who have been fat,
and are now reduced to nor-
mal, think other fat people
ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat
injure your health and en-
danger your existence, it ab-
solutely destroys your figure
and makes you a ludicrous
sight. Why do you stay fat?
“FATCU RE” positively re-
moves excess fat, and will re-
store your spoiled figure to
decent and pleasing propor-
tions, and is always a sure
and lasting cure for obesity
and corpulency. A few doses
improves your breathing won-
derfully, and the course of
treatment will permanently cure you.
Is the only successful and, at the same time,
harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been dis-
covered. Its efficacy has been undeniably de-
monstrated in thousands of successfully treated
cases. It is totally and absolutely non-poison-
ous, and can in no wise work any injury to the
general health; though it often reduces excess
weieht bv as much as a pound a day.
THIN WOMEN.
If you are flat-
chested, thin, run
down and scraggly—
even if you never
had a nicely-rounded
bosom, Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-food will build
you up and develop
your figure. Does
your mirror mock you? Flesh-food will remove
the faults in your figure by rounding out and de-
veloping the deficient places. Put up in Tablet
form, it is easy to use and pleasant to take, and,
if desired, may be taken secretly. Taken under
our directions, it will work wonders for your ap-
pearance. Results guaranteed in every case ac-
cepted.
In many cases bust measurements have been
increased by over ten inches, and the weight
over five pounds weekly. Other cases have
shown an increase in weight of even a pound a
day. The average bust increase desired is about
six inches, and is readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development
to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable
figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to
attenuated women. Thousands endorse it.
is a great aid to .nature in pro-
ducing just the kind of hair you
desire. Do not be afraid to use
it. No danger of its coloring
your hair. Your doctor can
wisely advise you.
Remember, the hair is only a
part of the whole body. To have
the richest and most beautiful
hair possible, your general health
must be of the best. Then, re-
member again that Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla is a great alterative and a
strong tonic.
i Prepared Dy DR. J. C. AYER 6s CO.,
I liowell. Mass., U- S. A.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “ FATCURE” or “FLESH-FOOD
Send 2d. stamp, and say which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
“OBESITY” to fat people and “BUST” to thin ones. Be sure to say which sample you want.
No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. Confidential. Write or call to-day.
THE WATWORTH FALLIERE ASSN., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney. [A 1309
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
m
NTS
PAT
v>Jvy'.s>
Ask
your painter
which of Ber-
ger's P amts he
recommends for your
purpose. There is a
special paint for each surface
—Coach and Motor Car Colours and Varnishes,
Paints, Enamels, Distempers, and Stains—
each one the best (or its purpose, and Br,.«h made^
“nutation.
Established 18771
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
The*Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
cures
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history'—the book is free or write
S> GREEN. 210, Lambeth. Road, London, Eng.
a
On Safe tfroogkout
the CommonueaftA
for name of focaC agent
send a post card To -
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Lewis Berger A Sons (Australia) Ltd,
la. YOUNG STREET. SYDNEY
r»MOL£SAL£ OMt«t
GBDj
Pipes
Pipes
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
STOP
SMOKING!
No. 914.
TO BE BOUGHT FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
INSIST ON
GETTING
(GBlS)
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring misses? Do yon
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good." It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
.—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
■ Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “l was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for 1!, days l
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereajk St., Sydney.
OUR
PIPES
DEFY ALL
IMITATORS
THERE ARE
TWO THINGS
THEY CAN’T
PRODUCE
(1) OUR QUALITY
(2) OUR SHAPE.
WE CAN PROVE ALL WE ADVERTISE.
"GOLCRYST
IP
IS
USEFUL
Big Stocktaking Sale.
GREAT REDUCTION IN PRICES.
D.B-B.L. Gun, top lever, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock, 12-gauge. Usual price, £3/17/6.
SALE PRICE, £2/17/6. COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
Special D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, fitted with
Greener patent crossbolt, top lever, automatic
patent safety treble grip. Usual price, £9.
REDUCED TO £7. COMPLETE WITH
CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
5.8.8. L. Gun, with top lever, choke bore, nicely
figured walnut stock, pistol grip. Usual price,
£2. SALE PRICE, 25/- COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIALw
Special D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun, with bar and rebound-
ing lock snap action, left barrel full choke, right
modified, nicely figured walnut stock, hammers
below line of sight, fitted with Greener patent
erossbolt. Usual price, £6. SALE PRICE,
£4/4/- COMPLETE WITH CLEANING AP-
PARATUS. TRTAL.
Mauser Principle Rifles, to kill at 200 yards, to take
22 long and 22 short cartridges. Usual price,
£l/1/-. SALE PRICE, 15/-
All orders for Guns or Rifles delivered CARRIAGE
PAID to any address in the Commonwealth.
SEND FOR OUR SPECIAL PRICE LIST.
Small Arms Co.,
IMPORTERS,
242-244 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONK
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. «ld.
By purifying the blood, GOLCRYST
invigorates the whole system and keeps
one healthy, clearheaded and happy.
GOLCRYST consists of Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice
and Ginger. Is there a better medicine?
Packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. Tree sample
sent by proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &
Co., Melbourne.
WHOLESALE AGENTSW.A., Neale, Con-
stable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,
Adelaide ; Q,., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane;
N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug
Co., Sydney. I 2
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
11l
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH: McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
THE Australian Magazine—-THE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6tl.
wOiSpRJE
IFor The Bulletin.]
Summer Song.
Over the sweet alfalfa grass
The butterflies fall like a golden shower,
Brushing with tender wings as they pass
The eager lips of each waiting flower.
Rain of gold on a summer morn,
Flutter of delicate painted wings,
Speeding along as the day is born
To the field where the purple flower swings.
In the lazy hush of the summer noon-tide
They float like a gentle, shimmering mist,
Ere in the silver of gracious moon-tide
They hide away from the lips they have
kissed.
Out in the sweet alfalfa field
There is the butterflies’ scented home,
And the drooping flowers to their passion
yield
Wherever the radiant lovers roam.
K.K.
Lad.
N.S.W.
Dearly beloved, the day is dead!
And that its sunshine cheered me not,
And that its gold was turned to red....
1 have forgot.
Dearly beloved, night is calling!
And that the sun was tierce and hot,
And that my heart for home was
calling....
I have forgot.
Oh, lad, my heart seeks rest to-night.
All you have done, all you have not,
Now with the fading of the light
I have. .. .forgot.
Patricia Murchison.
The Glamor of the Game.
VICTOKIA.
[n laughing days of Youth we drank our
Wine,
And smiled at -them who spake of growing
old.
Our days and nights were shot with silver
shine,
Our cups were all of ruby-mantled gold.
The sun, a careless comrade, lit the wold
Till ev’ry tree-top danced in living flame;
The stars, in princely pageant, o’er us
rolled—
But where is now the Glamor of the Game?
In Beauty’s eyes we read the ancient sign,
That always lures the genial hearts and
bold ;
We knelt at Love’s high altar as a shrine
And scorned the venal crew that bought
and sold;
We jeered at them whose joys were daily
doled,
Who daily fattened on a brother’s shame;
We felt the joys no tongue hath ever told :
But where is now the Glamor of the Game?
We dreamt of diamonds reft from sunless
mine;
We made the jest; the roundelay we
trolled;
We sent our fleets o’er fabled seas divine,
And gazed on deeps where coral blooms
unfold;
We thought our world in finer form to
mould;
We sang our song and called its echo fame;
We felt the stars were ours to have and
hold—
But where is now the Glamor of the Game?
ENVOI.
How could we dream Time’s fingers icy-
cold
Our pulsing blood would surely freeze and
tame ?
How could we guess our knell was daily
knolled ?
Ah! where is now the Glamor of the
Game?
P. Born.
A Philosophy of Progress.
QUEENSLAND.
The simpler lives of men and women in the years
to come, the cleansing of cities, and the progress of
sanitation and municipal science must inevitably rob
the artist of much which has hitherto inspired his
brush or pencil. —English magazine.
The lights and shades that sweetly fall
On pleasant Sydney town,
The dusks that hold my heart in thrall
When eve is soft and brown.
My soul has grown too sad and wise
To try to clearly analyse.
I like my dishes hot and plain,
Wear comfortable shoes,
And dress in garments, in the main,
Which suit my simple views
Of life, which need not make pretence
Of any special opulence.
Loud chariots whirring down the world
The voice of nature drown,
I care not where their scents are curled
Unless they run me down;
A penny tram sufficeth me
To bear me homeward to my tea.
But autobiographical
Remarks like these are stale.
The grapes grow sour beyond the wall,
And distant stars are pale.
But I must say it though it hurt,
The picturesque is mostly dirt.
The splendid things are mostly lies;
The holy, flat and dull.
The very finest pair of eyes
Are in a plain bone skull.
And things that cost a lot of cash
Are, in the sum of being, trash.
And so my ripe philosophy
Can only run to this:
That it is somewhat good to be
A partner in a kiss,
While friendship o’er a brimming glass
Proves all philosophy an ass.
N.S.W.
Pat O’Maort.


,
'
■u
■I
- .
1?
■
‘ H
V. 1000
■I
■<V,
- J
mm
V. 1003 !
H
ill
11
, M
MOOS
c>-«
9
X,■
■ t
T. V*'
I
f *
iMHMBIBiI
m
■ Mo r J'
mm
< /;■,
%' h i
J 004
9 I
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POPRRI
For Pipe Smokers—POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Blend of Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers—POT POURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH— SO for 4/6, postage 4d. extra; 100 for 9/=, postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA— IOO for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/-, postage 1/6 extra.
Send for my Illustrated Catalogue, post free.
A A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
K
a
mi)imiiiii|irt"'‘ | M|Hi£n
V
SBOB /
Ask the Property Owner
for his opinion of Wunderlich Metal Ceilings and Wall
Linings.
He will be able to tell you of their high investment
value —to explain that a house with Wunderlich
Ceilings built for rent commands better returns than
that in which older forms of interior treatment have been
adhered to; that when such a property is sold he
gets his money back in full; that quicker and larger
loans are negotiable; and that with Wunderlich Metal
in a house all income-reducing expenses are at an end.
Wunderlich
Ceiling's
make Attractive Rooms, and last without repairs whilst the building stands.
hey are fireproof, damp-proof, dustproof, and vermin-proof; economical to
buy, to freight and to fix.
Have them specified in the Contract.
Wunderlich Metal Manufactures include Shop Fronts, Metal Roofing,
Dormers and Mansard Windows, Ridges and Finials, Statuary, etc.,
Metal Verandahs and Awnings, Exterior Linings, etc.
CATALOGUES POST FREE.
Wunderlich Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Launceston and New Zealand.
Exclusive Models
Vlooo.—White Satin Crinoline, over flexible
shape, lined with contrasting shade. Grace-
ful plumes in white 70/-
Vlool.—White Tagel Shape, Breton flop style,
trimmed long white plumes, or tinted plumes
to tone with gown 95/-
Vloo2.—Smart Black Tagel Hat, stylishly
trimmed ostrich mounts £5/5/-
Vloo3.—Soft White Chip Straw Model, lined
pale green shot silk. Brim of hat is prettily
trimmed with a lace edging. White ostrich
plumes around crown 63/-
Vloo4.—New Napoleon Shape, in soft black
Tagel, trimmed superb Lancer plume £3/5/-
Marcus Clark sC°z
Central Square,
Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY
••COMMER” LORRY-3 Ton Capacity.
44
COMMER”
Motor Lorries
INCREASE YOUR BUSINESS RADIUS.
Any good motor-lorry—such as the “Commer”—by its speed and capacity -
must definitely increase your effective business radius. The splendid
features identified with the “Commer” Motor-lorry are specially adapted to.
Australian needs and conditions. They withstand the severe tests of years of'
hard usage, and remain staunch and reliable servants under all conditions.
Capacity: 1 Ton to 7 Tons.
SPECIFICATION: Engine, four cylinders, cast in pairs; Bosch high-
tension magneto; gear-driven, also coil and accumulator; chain-drive, with
chain cases; automatic lubrication; efficient radiator; three, four and five
speeds forward and one reverse; direct drive on top gears always in mesh
with dog clutch drive; foot-brake on driver between gear-box and differential,
operated by pedal on foot-board; side hand brakes operated on drum of rear-
wheels; internal expanding, positively taken on and off (on larger models a
special spring buffer drive is fitted between differential and gear-box, the
latter being of the ‘Tool-proof” type); complete set of tools; ball-bearings
throughout.
ANY TYPE OF BODY FITTED.
Investigate the “Commer” fully—it will repay inspection. We will
arrange any trial or demonstration on request. Full particulars posted free-.
DALGETY (St CO. Ltd.
Motor Garage:
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


TII'URSDA V. NOVEMBER 28, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Pmcu <ii>.
Voi.. 33. No. 1711.
THE AUSTRALIAN COACH.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA (to Deakin): “Look here, Alfred, I’m tired of this! When DO you think vve are likely
to get anywhere while this insanity lasts ? ”


Xo Aft'ents:
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1912
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations by “Hop,” Alf Vincent,
Norman Lindsay and all the leading represen-
tative artists, will be the finest Black and
White Work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the National humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the
annual reflection of the life and thoughts of our
country, and therefore useful as well as inter-
esting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates,
but, in consequence of the heavy outlay on th's
Special Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
in order of priority.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign Addresses, 9d. \
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia lor the White Man.”
1 Tinted and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosinau, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCUIJJMiti.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. . . . . 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Edif or will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence ” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved-,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black ant! White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest . and adapted for
DIiIECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction —-i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS,
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Apiuca.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; and others.
Canada. —-Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11. C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., I/.'ll Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. IK. Jewett, Utah, LJ.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth anil D Streets. San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A. : IK. E. Lenehan, 585
— 29th Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey, World’s
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco; Queen City
News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.
Egypt- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llonli Konu. —Brewer and Co., Pudder Street. Hong
Hong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, IKes£ Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at 416 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6§in. x lljin., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):-—-Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, ltloz. hd.: United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, ltioz. Id. Only one nexvspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz. to
10oz., Hid.; JOos. to JSitz.. 3d.; elsewhere, 40z., Id,,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1912.
THE TORYISM WHICH IS SUICIDE.
One of the curiosities of politics is the per-
sistence with which ultra-Toryism, all over
the world, battles against its own best in-
terests The most heartily detested man of
the moment among the wealthy classes of
the United Kingdom is Lloyd George.
There are many who would cheerfully watch
him being fried, and millions who would be
delirious with joy at his retirement from
public life. The head and front of his offend-
ing is the Insurance Act and other social
legislation for which he has been responsible.
Yet the ameliorative legislation of the Lloyd
Georges of this world is the surest, if not
the only, prophylactic against revolution.
In France, something over a century ago,
the monarchy fell, and wealthy folks lost
their estates, heads and other assets, chiefly
because there was no Lloyd George about
the premises. The most prominent feature
of the political landscape in those black
days was that typical old Tory who, on hear-
ing that t'’H neonlo were starving. ™ T uarkH
cheerily, "Let them eat grass.” This sort
of jaunty counsel' exasperates a famished
populace, and, when it has been handed to
them a few times, they are extremely liable
to rise up and break something. Instead
of cruel jeers, the Lloyd Geokgk type of
politician offers the anxious and hungry
worker sympathy and a little —a very little-
in the way of additional comfort. Almost
invariably the concession is the irreducible
minimum in its line —something so small
that the. rich man is only hit by it as with
a financial feather. Yet his lugubrious and
scandalised howls fill the land for months,
and in his short-sighted folly he would have
the blood of the man who, in effectuating the
change, has acted, in reality, as his saviour.
Australia is afflicted with herds of tragic
asses of this description. Scratch any Legis-
lative Council and you will find a score of
affluent old idiots who are capable—if their
own words are to be credited —of any wild
folly, from abolishing the Early Closing-
Acts, Arbitration and Conciliation legisla-
tion, Old Age Pensions and so on, to re-
introducing the custom of hanging people
for theft. Fortunately for the security of
their lives and property, they are protected
against themselves. And though they never
seem to understand it, and would probably
expire in agony rather than admit it. their
staunchest bulwarks against expropriation
and other unpleasantnesses are the men
whom they revile hardest.
* * * *
In Australia, extreme Toryism, in its
desire to score a party point against its sup-
posed enemy Labor, is playing a particularly
dangerous game. For some years Liberal
politicians and Liberal newspapers of the
more bitter sort have been giving the most
valuable assistance in their power to the
I.W.W. revolutionaries. When W. M.
Hughes denounces strikes, and talks an
audience of angry wharf-laborers into a
reasonable. frame of . mind, his efforts are
greeted with acid witticisms concerning a
one-time Democrat whose methods have al-
tered with his changed fortunes. The sug-
gestion is made that, in the brave days
when he was neither a Minister nor - a
property-owner, Hughes would have been
“a consistent Socialist,” and stirred the mob
to rebellion and bloodshed. Many workers
are foolish enough to take this nonsense
seriously, and to turn from Hughes and
his colleagues in impatience. But they
never, by any chance, turn to Liberalism.
The only effect is to incline them to the
party of anarchy. . A flagrant instance of
such demented tactics is to be seen in opera-
tion in N. S. Wales at the present time. The
morning papers are accusing Minister Beeby
of being no more democratic than C. G.
Wade as regards his industrial legislation
and the administration thereof. It is re-
presented that Beeby’s Arbitration Act is
as subversive to the liberty of the working
man as his predecessor’s Coercion Act was,
and that the Labor Minister is as willing
to gaol people, in an off-hand manner, as any
Conservative. All this ignores the vast differ-
ences between the Labor Act and the Liberal
one. The Coercion Act provided, amongst
other things, that any sergeant of police
might burst into the house of a citizen who
was so much as suspected of discussing strike
matters, and seize all the papers of an in-
criminating sort that were there. It also
provided that anyone who participated in a
strike should be tried by a Judge, without a
jury, and be liable to imprisonment for two
years. Beeby’s threat, last week, to “en-
force the penal clauses of the Arbitration
Act,” was distorted by the local press into
an assurance that he intended breaking out
on Wade lines. Nothing, of course, could
have been further from the truth. The
penalties under his 'Act are merely money
ones—fines, that is to say, recoverable from
the union funds, or, in the event of the
striker or strike-fomenter being a non-
unionist, from him personally. The possi-
bility of gaol only arises in some such event
as disobedience to an injunction ; and even
then the offender has the right to be tried
before a jury. But the vast majority of
working men, more especially of the sort to
whom the I.W.W. people look for recruits,
are not in a position to appreciate at their
proper value the fallacies that are dinned
into their ears. They grow impatient with
the idea that industrial troubles can ever be
settled on a legal basis. They give up
hoping that Parliament will ever redress
their- manifold grievances. Yet, as said
already, they do not dream of turning in
their anger and despair to Liberalism, or
Conservatism, or Reaction, or whatever the
anti-progress party may be calling itself for
the moment. Their natural tendency is to
rush into the arms of the Syndicalist party,
which is rapidly forming all over the Com-
monwealth.
* * * #
It might be a healthy thing for Toryism
if it stood off and soberly considered the
aims and objects of this new faction which
it is helping to aggrandise at the expense of
the Laborites. In the first place, the
I.W.W. stands solidly against Defence of
any sort whatever. It is the pleasing
theory of these people that the only enemy
the manual worker has is the capitalist. To
them it is all one if the employer is an Aus-
tralian, an Englishman or a Chinese. They
do not recognise any virtue or merit in
patriotism. Should a hostile Jap army in-
vade these shores the I. v/.W. has fre-
quently stated that it will not object. In
fact, it will probably be at the wharf to
give the enemy a friendly welcome, and
direct him to the biggest bank. Being vio-
lently prejudiced against national defence,
these people are naturally opposed to im-
migration. The -■’arns told by this section
in British “Labor” papers, such as Rey-
nolds, do more than anything to head off
the type of overseas working man that the
Commonwealth most needs. They are not
innocuously reasonable Socialist reformers
who aspire merely to nationalise an injurious
monopoly here and there, but ramping revo-
lutionaries of the sort that G. 11. Reid ac-
cused the WATSOFf-ites of being six years
ago. They would gladly grab anything from
the Mint to a fruit-barrow, and divide the
proceeds among the populace in the name
of the Millennium or 1.W.W.-ism or some-
thing else equally splendid-sounding and
muddled and vague. Incidentally, they
would see the Empire in Sheol before rais-
ing a finger to protect it, and they profess
no more regard or affection for Geokge V.
and the members of his family than for so
many Ainu.
* » * *
That the section of the community which
consists mainly of loyalists and Imperial-
ists and persons with a stake in the country
should find itself in the same political gal-
ley, more or less, with tfie section which is
pledged to pull up every stake in the Com-
monwealth, and disperse Private Property
to the four winds of Heaven, and utterly
overturn the established order of things, is
another instance of the weird way in which
our imbecile Party Government system
works out. Every Tory with sufficient in-
telligence to think for himself, independently
of the stock gags of his class, knows quite
well that there is no real menace to Capital
in the Labor party’s propaganda. On the
contrary. The Australian Labor statesman
must, no doubt, concede more than the cor-
responding reformer in Europe, for the
simple reason that the people he is catering
for are better educated, and consequently
demand more than their European .proto-
types do. In Britain the safety-valve is a
trifling circumstance; here it is necessarily
an imposing affair, with an orifice like the
mouth of a cannon. But in both cases the
principle is the same. In both cases the
poor are getting no more than they have a
right to ask ; and in both eases the rich are
getting good value by way of insurance on
the security of their possessions out of the
increased taxes they are called upon to
pay. But it is against the rules of the
Party game for a loyal Liberal to admit any
of these things. The harmless politicians of
the Federal and State Labor parties, most
of whose measures are framed with the ob-
ject of legislatively righting certain obvious
wrongs, with the least possible damage to
vested or any other interests, must fie lim-
ned on the one hand as mad-headed and
reckless thieves, and on the other as miser-
able weaklings who have gone back on their
convictions and become the hirelings of the
wealthy. And as one result of this lying a
shocked stream of workers is steadily flow-
ing from the moderate or l abor Party into
the extremist or Red Rag Party.
THE NON-PROGRESSIVE SKY-
SCRAPER.
The sky-scraper is not a new invention, and
the policy of crowding into one spot the
largest possible number of people has no-
thing of novelty about it. An old person
called Nimkod got to work on a sky-scraper
in remote prehistoric times, and the results
of his stupid enterprise have lived in tradi-
tion through the long ages which have wiped
from the scroll of memory the very names of
great nations. Babylon, under Nebuchad-
nezzar, went in for a whole-hearted conges-
tion policy which dwarfed by comparison
the efforts of other States. Immigration
was conducted at the spear-point, and whole
nations were dragged across the desert to
swell the vast throng that filled the city to
overflowing. It did not matter to the old
king who at times varied his diet by grazing
like a cow on the palace lawn, that he left
huge areas of productive country depopu-
lated. The great thing was to ram, squeeze
or otherwise push as many people as pos-
sible into the narrow space by the Eu-
phrates, and he did it with astounding suc-
cess. Babylon had at that time 2000 years
or more of splendid history behind it.
Within 50 years of the beginning of its big
congestion policy it was burst, finished, and
its name had become the Oriental .equiva-
lent of mud. There were plenty of sky-
scrapers in the city of Nebuchadnezzar,
where buildings went up to 450 ft. in height
and the municipal council put no restric-
tions on the builders, but they came down
very rapidly and remained very flat. In
fact, the combination of sky-scrapers and
congestion had such an effect on the place
that the first enemy who came along walked
in without taking the trouble to kill any-
body on his way.
* * * *
The people now clamoring for sky-scrapers
in Sydney, instead of being in the van of
progress, or the advance of thought, or any
of the bigh-sounding things which make a
swelling noise on public platforms, are in
reality trying to. put back the clock and re-
introduce a state of affairs which was thrown
aside with failure marked all over it 24 cen-
turies ago. Of course, to be 24 centuries
behind the ’bus is not a great matter.
There are some people, such as the States’
Spiters, who miss it by 50 or a hundred cen-
turies ; but, in a general way, it may be said
that the person who is 96 generations be-
hind time is likely to be late for breakfast,
though, owing to the slackness of such in-
stitutions, he may still be in time for his
own funeral. The idea that congestion
means advance must, therefore, be turned
down ; and as there is no conceivable reason
for the building of sky-scrapers other than
the hope that in this way a higher congestion
may be achieved, the whole notion of erect-
ing buildings to abnormal heights may fairly
be regarded as a form of insanity analogous
to the recrudescence of witchcraft or a be-
lief that the world is flat.
* * * *
The bitter cry of modern civilisation is
for more air, more room, more convenience
in moving from place to place, aud less
danger in following the ordinary daily hunt
for bread and butter. The sky-scraper
flouts that cry. It certainly does provide
air for those who occupy its own high office
flats, but it takes air away from everybody
else; and, if it offers 1 space for the conduct
of business, it adds to the sense of restric-
tion and confinement which grates on the
nerves of the city dweller pent up in cages
of brick and steel. Further, it helps to
swell the crowded traffic of the streets by
pouring from its single door the whole
massed population of its many flats, and it
adds enormously to the ever-increasing
dangers of city life. An outbreak of fire in
a sky-scraper, the derangement of its sys-
tem of lifts and a score of other possibilities,
are fearsome things to dream about, and
should be sufficient in themselves to make the
public write a large veto across the sugges-
tion to erect these monstrosities unless some
Overwhelming reason can be found in their
justification.
* * *> *
The main reason given for the demand for
sky-scraPers in Sydney is the enormous
value of land. So great a price must be
paid for the ground on which a building
stands that only by carrying the structure
to immense heights can a return in rent be
obtained which represents fair interest on
the outlay. This premise may be all right,
but the deduction from it is radically un-
sound. The fact (hat land has reached a
price which is beyond its legitimate use-
value is clear proof that such price is ficti-
tious. Instead of attempting to pay the
figure demanded and make good by erecting
an unreasonably high building, the proper
course should be to inquire why the land
sells readily for more than it is 'worth, and
having discovered that, to take steps to
bring it down to its legitimate value. The
inquiry will not involve much research or
study. There can be no doubt that it is the
present congestion of Sydney, and the public
belief that such congestion must continue
and increase, which causes the abnormal rise
in value of the best sites. Were people
assured that the city would stay as it is to-
day and increase no further, the value of
land would go steadily back until its exact
use-value was reached. No one wants to
pay more for a thing than it is worth at
the time he buys it. unless he is well as-
sured that it is soon going to be worth a
great deal more. The proposal to build
sky-scrapers is an attempt to forestall a
future when congestion shall have reached
its maximum, and is, in fact, a denial of the
possibility of that very decentralisation
policy to which the party in power in N. S.
Wales is pledged.
* * * *
Instead of narrowing all things to one
centre and trying to make a more deplor-
able congestion by filling the upner air with
bricks and steel, N. S. Wales lias a right to
demand the freedom and expansion which is
i. n l> ne with the best modern thought. That
freedom is to be secured, not by harking
back to the methods of Nebuchadnezzar
and other ancient and disreputable failures,
and attempting sky-seraning devices, but by
the creation of new cities where they are re-
quired as outlets for trade.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Obvious Defect in the Constitution,
and One of its Uesnlts.
Every now and then the anti-Referendum
papers weigh in with an admission that
takes a deal of explaining a\yay. The S. M.
Herald supplied a striking example of this
tendency last week, as follows: —
If Ministers wished to remedy an obvious defect in
the Constitution, they could have done so by giving
. . . . the Federal Parliament power to make a uni-
form company law, as nine people out of 10 thought
they could do under the original Constitution.
It is here recognised (1) that, owing to “an
obvious defect ’ in the Constitution (i.e.,
the Trade and Commerce clause), the
Federal Parliament has no power to make
a uniform company law; and (2) that nine
people out of 10 thought that Parliament
had power to do this under the original Con-
stitution. Not even the most rabidly biassed
of party sheets will deny that a uniform
company law is badly needed in Australia.
It is a particularly vital requirement in
N. S. Wales. This State has one of the
most archaic Company Acts on earth—vir-
tually the obsolete British Act of 1867. As
things are, investors are liable to be fleeced
most villainously. A swindling promoter is
at liberty to float his office, or his dog, or
his overdraft, or his colossal cheek into a
company and dispose of it for £10; another
may get rid of the useless* thing for £lOOO,
'another for £lO,OOO. About the only pro-
tection the public has is its own acumen,
and that is a quality which 90 per cent, of
it wholly lacks. Previous to 1906 the same
muddled and anarchic state of affairs reigned
in the United Kingdom. London swarmed
with affluent commercial brigands who had
made their fortunes under the segis of the
Law. Six years ago an elaborate code of
provisions to circumvent these thieves was
framed and legalised by Parliament. It
was insisted that the essence of a pros-
pectus must be rigid veracity; also that
everything which affected the contracts, and
so on, entered into by a Company must be
disclosed; likewise all matters, . great or
small, indicating good or bad faith on the
part of the vendors. In brief, company
frauds were rendered as difficult, from one
end of the Kingdom to the other, as the
ingenuity of experts could make them. Ad-
mittedly Australia needs, similar legislation,
and admittedly, also, it is the Federal Par-
liament only which can provide it. The in-
dividual States can, no doubt, pass laws
governing their own companies : but, unless
the six States pass identically the same Bill
unaltered through their 12 Houses, trouble
is bound to ensue. Dozens of banking, in-
surance. trading and other companies oper-
ate in two or more States, and variations
in the law will continually perplex and
harass them. Yet, unless the electors agree
to the Constitutional Amendment which is
embodied in the Trade and Commerce
Amending Bill now before the Australian
Parliament, there can be no uniform com-
pany law for the Commonwealth. That
much the High Court has laid down in the
most explicit terms. But the Herald., and
pa.pers like it, object tfiat if the existing


Trade and Commerce clause is altered, the
Federal Parliament may do what no Parlia-
ment in the world has ever done (though
most of them have always possessed the
power which the Federal House is seeking),
namely, to nationalise inoffensive industries
broadcast, and interfere generally in every
sort of trading and financial concern. It is
significant that this sort of absurd Menace
or Myth is the ultra-Conservatives’ only
definitely-expressed reason for objecting to a
Constitutional change which is essential be-
fore Australia can secure a measure that
must remove many of the glaring commer-
cial abuses that exist now, and make it
possible for Parliament to cope with others
as they arise.
A Dirge of the Morning After.
[For The Bulletin.]
Voice of the People ( wailing dismally ) :
“Who can deliver us, Lord of our destiny !
Out of the depths comes our passionate
cry,
Wrung from the soul of us. Aid for the
whole of us!
Tell us, we pray, that our succor is nigh.
“Where is the super-man? Where the de-
liverer ?
Where is the Captain to win us relief —
Surcease from sorrowing, respite from bor-
rowing?
Oh, for a philtre to deaden our grief!”
Anxious Voice from Right Wing :
“Patience, O populace! Wait for a little
while!
Labor shall succor you —cleave to your
Jim !
James and the rest of them, sure, are the
best of them —
Jimmy, the affable, trust ye to him!
“Lo, from the Chosen lures he the capital.
Bright golden capital! Glorious loans !
Millions and mill-i-ons ! Soon ’twill be hill-
i-ons!
Patience awhile till he floats ’em.” (Loud
groans.)
Voice of the People ( irritably ) :
“Jim? Oh, be d —d to him. Doors are all
slammed to him —-
Cohen’s and Isaacs’s and old Ikey Mo’s.
We would live decently! Up the spout re-
cently
He has shoved ev’rything barring our
clothes.
(Again dolefully ) :
“Who can deliver us? Is there no saviour?
Is there no Chief with a Will and a Plan?
Not in a city-full? Oh, it is pitiful!
The hour it is striking—but where is the
man?”
Voice from Left Wing ( eagerly) :
“Cheer up, my countrymen! Here is your
Gregory!
Long he’s been shut from the councils of
State.
lie’ll banish care for you ; he’ll do and dare
for you.
Wade is the captain to fashion your fate.
“Long was he languishing, sunk in ob-
scurity ;
Now his wise counsel the populace seeks.
He is the man for you; he’ll plot and plan
for you.
Rest on his Liberal bosom.” (Wild
shrieks.)
Voice of the People (petulantly) :
“Out on your Gregory! Visions of beggary
Haunt us whenever we hear of his name.
Labor or Liberal, Jimmy or Gregory,
Wade or McGowen, they’re both much
the same.
(With increasing anguish) :
u Who can deliver us? Who is to win for us
Money at four per cent., five per cent.,
ten?
In what futurity, out of obscurity,
Shall there arise this great leader of
men?”
Greasy Voice from the Flies :
“Sufferin’ Solomon ! Vot ish dis howl
aboudt?
Hark to yer Uncle, he’ll tole yer vot’s
right:
No more at four per shent. —no, nor at
more per shent—
Can you get capital! Monish is tight.
“Listen, goot beobles, your beano is finished
mit;
Und obligations you neffer can shirk.
Monish vos tight, my tears; dot vos all
right, my tears.
Loans vas maturin’. You’ll haf to get
vorlc.”
Voice of the People (howling) :
“Work? O preposterous! What are we
coming to?
Is there no .super-man armed with a
scheme —
Scheme to win capital? Is there no chap
at all
Willing to plan for us? Work! Do we
dream?
(Desperately)-.
u Who can deliver us? Who can win ease
for us?
Rescue us out of this ocean of debt?
We’ve come to wreck in it; up to the neck
in it —
Won’t someone help us get out of the
wet?”
(With gloomy reiteration) :
“ Who can deliver us? Who can deliver us?
Are none to pity such desperate elves?
Here or in other State? Oh, the poor Mother
State!”....
Chorus from the Gallery (in disgust) :
“A to, turn it up, an’ deliver yerselres!”
victoria.
Den.
The Obsolete Parliamentary Machine.
The machinery of Parliament is about, as
complicated as the works of a theological
divine who lived in the days before the Devil
took to vaudeville. Thousands of represen-
tative bodies have simplified their procedure
in such a way as to save their time and con-
duct their business with the greatest ease
and despatch: but the law-making chambers
have no regard for time or business method,
and the more important affairs of State must
be conducted in a manner that is part jest,
part insanity, and part crime. To waste the
public time is to snatch money from the
pockets of the workers to spend upon nothing
at all, and such waste is just about as crim-
inal as plain robbery from the person. The
waste is largely accounted for by dull, dion
in" inanities and endless repetitions ot forms,
together with needless arguments and discus-
sions about matters which have no faintest
showing of value or interest for the citizens
who foot the bill. The doings ot Henry
Willis in an Assembly run on
those lines will make history. With-
out heat or hesitation he has _ thrown
out from the Chamber again and
again the rowdies and noisy persons who
have so long disgraced its sittings. His
authority is something which no man can
with impunity deny. Before his quiet eye
and gentle voice Wade looked helpless as a
piece of ill-tempered soap; Wood impotent
as a handful of electrified nails under the
fall of a slow but weighty steam-hammer;
Fitzpatrick futile as a Chinese cracker on
which a waterspout has descended. The
Ministrv of the day was taught to approach
him with reverent awe and whispering hum-
bleness, and when he chose he could put a
chock of precedent into the _ wheels of the
legislative machine, and bring the whole
thing to a standstill. Willis stands out as
a remarkable phenomenon. The hour called
for him, and the man came in answer to the
call. He found a bear-garden, and
he made —well, something like a howl-
ing desert. That he was needed and
that the events of the past year
were possible ✓in the N.S.W. Assembly is
about the most complete indictment of Par-
liamentary method that could be found. The
trifling absurdities with which the people s
representatives are forced to engage them-
selves from night to night, the ridiculous and
antiquated forms, the childish delays, _ the
petty opportunities for shuffle and intrigue
call for something very drastic in the way
of change. There is no good reason why the
State Assembly should not conduct its busi-
ness in the simple and direct manner in
which the Board of a big commercial concern
is able to discuss and dispatch its affairs.
Thorough discussion there should be, but at
least one-half of the time of Parliament could
be saved if all obsolete usages were abol-
ished. In the workshops of the world
machinery soon becomes out-of-date and _ is
thrown on the scrapheap ; but the legislative
engine has been running since the davs of the
Plantagenets, and half its cranks and pinions
are merely so much extra weight of metal for
the limited power to drag round. The whole
sorry business shrieks for a new, simple and
fast-running machine which will reel out
manufactured goods in the shape of workable
and well-devised laws.
The Grab at Melbourne’s Power Supply.
Private Enterprise is making a big snatch
at the supply of power for Melbourne’s elec-
tric railways. Merz’s report recommended
that power should' be drawn from a State-
owned station at Yarraville in times of extra
heavy traffic, while the main supply should
come from private companies at Altona and
Morwell. The Altona Co. doesn’t count, but
the Morwell show, which has already got
some concessions from the Railway. Com-
missioners, has members of Parliament
among its shareholders, and is evidently the
storm-centre of the iniouity. Premier Watt
moved that the electrification of the rail-
ways be gone on with, but was promptly
met with an Opposition addendum affirm-
ing that the supply of power should
be in the hands of the State. This proposi-
tion was defeated on a purely party vote;
but so many of Watt’s own crowd showed
their dislike to this particular P.E. that the
whole matter was shelved, pending the re-
port of a select committee. Meantime Watt
has given his assurance that no power con-
tracts shall be let without the consent of
Parliament. So far so good ; but the business
will still have to be watched very carefully.
Here are the two big facts: (1) the Gov-
ernment is naturally anxious to give Pri-
vate Enterprise a hand, in return for the
hand it gets from P.E.; and (2) in giving
that hand it always has Merz’s report and
recommendations to fall back upon, Merz’s
report is the sheet-anchor of any Government
which wants to give P.E. a good time for
many a year to come. Now, Merz may be
all right in his plans and estimates, and
brown coal may be more advantageous than
black for power: purposes; but there are en-
gineers in Melbourne who advocate, water
power either from the Yarra or a big dam
at Trawool as cheaper and more satisfac-
tory. Others, again, who believe in coal,
declare that what is wanted is one State-
owned station. There is thus enough, diver-
sity of opinion to make it worth while set-
tin« other expert evidence beside that of
Merz. As things stand, Watt and Weary
seem rather anxious to swallow Merz and
his P.E. holus-bolus: and P.E. in its. turn is
ready to swallow any old thing which will
digest into dividends.
University Reform.
“Fitzwilliam’s” retort: —
I’ll take all the chiding Fitzjohn can give me—
of the sort that is contained in his reproof of
B. 21/11/’l2. I pass over his list of objections. They
may be his, but they are not mine, nor anybody
else’s that I have yet heard of. But I will remark,
in passing, that the system of paying professors of
the Sydney Uni. by a percentage of fees, to which
he apparently refers in “objection” No. 3, went out
with the great auk. I believe that Professor
Anderson Stuart, who was appointed nearly 30
years ago, is the last survivor of the system, but,
so far as I am aware, all the other professors receive
a screw like ordinary folk. The rest of Fitzjohn’s
alleged objections are a little puerile, if he will for-
give my apparent discourtesy.
Without going so far as to class Fitzjohn among
the tradition-bound troglodytes to whom he refers, I
will say that he is one of those old-fashioned
thinkers who confuse change with progress. I
thought this superstition had gone out with Darwin,
but apparently it survives. Modern reformers are
disposed to look for the defects in a system before
they advocate change.
As I said in my previous communication, I believe
that the Senate is susceptible of improvement; but
mv contention is that it has done such excellent
work with the means at its command that the onus
of proving the desirability of a change in its con-
stitution lies upon those attacking it. I am glad
that fitzjohn admits that the University has
turned out some brilliant scholars: and from his
own figures I can prove that their numbers show up
rather well. He compares the total population of
the State for last year with the number of matricu-
lants for that year, whereas it is obvious that the
two sets of figures bear no necessary relation to each
other. A more correct comparison would be the
increase of State population for anv given period
with that of the University for the same period.
As a matter of fact, the number of undergraduates
lias trebled itself in the last 13 years, an increase of
200 per cent., whilst the population of the State
has increased by about 40 per cent. Nor is it fair
to compare the number of matriculants in any one
year with the total number of persons between the
ages of 17 and 24. The correct comparison is
between the total number of undergraduates for
that year and the number of persons of those ages.
The proportion then becomes 1400 in 270,000, not
211 in 270,000. This may or may not be a fair
proportion, but at least it compares favorably with
any country except America. In that country the
endowments of the Universities are better propor-
tioned to the wealth of the community than in
this. It comes to a question of funds. The Senate
has used the means at its command as well as the
community that supplies them deserves. I stand
auite ready to be convinced that a differently con-
stituted body could do better.
As regards the remission of fees, if my memory
serves me right, I stated my opinion that this is an
excellent idea. In this, again, Fitzjohn appar-
ently agrees with me. But he has failed to convince
me that, even if the way to the professions were
made absolutely free, any considerable number of
the population would lay their ears back, and rush
it. I am sorry for this, for, in common with most
thinkers who believe that the world is susceptible of
improvement, I should like to see the ; professional
spirit more widely spread. I believe in the “New
Henublic.” which appears to me to depend entirely
upon such a spirit.
I have heard of those alleged American students
who “earn enough money during vacation to keep
them during term,” as I have heard of other things
American. All I can say is that if in America, or
aovwbere else, a man can, by waiting or boot-
blacking, earn sufficient in three months to keep him
for 12, he is a fool to worry about a learned pro-
fession. Also, if Fitzjohn will guarantee his state-
ment, I am prepared to chuck my profession, and
sail for America to-morrow, to go wood-cutting.
An undergraduate who tried it in this country might
earn from 445. to 48s. per week during 13 weeks
(if he were lucky enough to obtain immediate em-
ployment', and an adult’s wage). A rapid mental
calculation will show that he would have from £l5
to £lB to keep him for the other 39 weeks. I don t
know what his life would be if he were discovered
in one of the employments mentioned. But be
would have no need to worry about that—it wouldn’t
last long enough. By the way, it is not quite
fair to suggest that undergraduates, or any other
body of young Australians, would resent one of their
fellows’ method of making bis living. I have been
a member of the University for 14 years, and in all
that time I never heard a man’s social position
commented upon or inquired into. But I did know
one evening student who was a tramguard in his
spare time, and another who made money as a
wharf-laborer. One of them was exceedingly popu-
lar. the other w»' not; but in neither case did their
social position enter into the question.
I was perfectly well aware that the Senators men-
tioned bv Fitz.tohn were also members of Parlia-
ment, but I quite fail to see how my obiection is
touched. I am secretlv of opinion that Parliament
would be a better place if every Senator were also
a member, but that by no means involves the proposi-
tion that Parliament should be at liberty to s°lect
any two of its members to serve on the Senate. This
is a fallacy of the same kind as that involved jn the
confusion of change and progress, to which I
alluded above, and which a very elementary training
in logic would enable Fitzjohn to avoid. I do not
desire to reflect upon the mental capacity, manners
or customs of members of Parliament —they are
purely a matter of taste—but I submit that, eligi-
bility to a University Senate should depend upon
more than taste.
♦
On the Folly of Making Public Those
Things Which Were Better Left
Unsaid. -
It says a lot for the virility of the Labor
movement that it should continue to forge
ahead despite the dreadful disabilities under
which it struggles. Its press support is
hardly worth talking about; on the other
hand, its adversaries command a vast col-
lection of journals which, by reason of the
news that they have to offer, penetrate to
homes of every way of political thinking.
But of all the handicaps which afflict the
worker’s cause, perhaps the heaviest is the
Trades Hall. The Trades Hall is to the
politically-minded working man a sort of
club. It is here that he meets people who
hold social and industrial views more or
less like his own. As in every other big
gathering of human beings, there are mod-
erates and extremists ; law-abiders and folks
whom the law in many of its aspects makes
extremely tired ; silent, brooding persons and
loud-voiced sensation-mongers; cautious,
astute citizens and uproarious asses. Allow-
ing for a few obvious but essentially trivial
differences, the moral and intellectual pro-
totypes of those who frequent (say) the
Melbourne Trades Hall are to be found in
the Melbourne Club. The club scores by
reason of the fact that the conversational
and other idiocies of its members are n wer
made public. The press cannot penetrate
there. Who that has heard a true-blue Tory
blithering to a sympathetic audience will dis-
pute that if things were otherwise humanity
would be more than staggered? Official Lib-
eralism, in N. S. Wales, with an eye to the
coming elections, is making every post a
winning one in connection with the resump-
tion of Federal Government House. The
deed is not condemned for the miserable ex-
hibition of State Frightism which it was.
That would not suit Liberalism’s book, since
it goes fairly strong on State Frightism
itself. Instead, the eviction business is held
up to execration as an “act of disloyalty to
the King’s representative.” And the argu-
ment is shored up by quotations from the
remarks of some half-demented member of
the I.W.W. who frankly holds the view that
all kings should be dynamited and their re-
presentatives likewise. Yet Labor has never
held a monopoly in the matter of hostility to
the King’s representative. The last Gover-
nor-General, partly owing to his approving
attitude towards Australian naval defence,
partly to his outspokenness in regard to the
evils of child-slavery on dairy farms, the bad
taste of abusing his Ministers in his presence
and so on, earned the hearty dislike of thou-
sands of Tories all over the Commonwealth.
They spoke of him in public trams and bars
with no more reverence or affection than is
usually accorded to the humblest tripe-
hound. They spread lying scandals about
him broadcast, and did not worrv in the
least over the fact that in besmirching him
they were belittling the sovereign whom he
symbolised here. The language used in re-
gard to him in the clubs was absolutely sul-
phurous. Yet no Tory ever, in consequence,
earned the public rebuke of being “a dis-
loyalist” and a heaver of insults at his
king. Had Laborites behaved in a Trades
Hall as their opponents behaved in the clubs,
Australia would have rung with the infamy
of their doings, and enough ammunition
would have been forthcoming to last Empire
Leaguers and the like for years. Every time
a Hyde Park or Yarra' Bank orator arises
in Sydney or Melbourne Trades Hall, and
yells for someone’s gore, or demands a revo-
lution on the spot, or denounces all indus-
trial legislation as imbecile, and clamors for
a ceneral strike, or argues that self-defence
is "all wrong, and that the workers should
agree to hand Australia over to the first hos-
tile comer, the Liberal proselytiser points to
the newspaper report of these horrors, and
argues that here is the Socialistic tiger
with the muzzle off in very deed. But when
“Liberal” Yarra-Bankers talk approvingly
in clubs and such-like resorts of handing the
country over to the Japs, as a preferable
alternative to having it governed by white
Laborites, or when they applaud the dis-
loyal conduct of Ulster Orangemen in pre-
paring to resist the king’s troops, or with
grotesque ignorance misrepresent the mean-
ing of their adversaries’ measures, the coun-
try is not scandalised, for it never really
knows. It is a dreadful calamity to be
forced to, as it were, yell one’s worst fool-
ishness through a megaphone for all the
world to hear. The Tory doesn’t do that:
it is the Laborite’s trouble that he habitually
does.
—— ♦
The White Man and the Tropics.
Up in the Malay Group, on the island of
Kissa, about 16 miles north of Timor, reside
the descendants of eight Dutch soldiers who
were left in a garrison fort away back in
1665 and forgotten by the Dutch East India
Co. Professor Macmillan Brown, of
Maoriland, reviewed them recently during
one of his periodical journeyings through the
islands of the north, and put his observations
thus: —
After 250 years the descendants of these soldiers
have retained their virility and their fertility. Only
within the last 50 years have they intermarried with
the natives of neighboring islands, and that inter-
marriage has introduced the only weaknesses they
have—slight chest affections and so forth- They have
no mental maladies. The present generation is only
the fifth from the original Dutchmen; who founded
the community. On the other hand, I found that
most Chinese families in the Archipelago were in
their seventh or eighth generation after 150 years.
They were not by any means so long-lived as the
descendants of the Dutchmen. The existence of this
community proves that European races can live and
multiply in the tropics. The one condition that has
kept them so virile and so fertile is that they have
had to work hard for a living. Their island is the
most barren I have ever seen. They fish, and make
boats for the inhabitants of other islands. The
timber for these boats has to be brought from Wetta.
a hundred miles away. They raise cocoanuts and
plant yams and taros, but the soil of their island
is poor, and it lies in the dry belt and gets little rain.
Tt is hard work under these circumstances to keen
themselves alive, and that I consider is what has kept
them true to their race.
Any Australian advocate of black labor in
the Northern Territory, or supporter of the
fraved gag that the white man cannot live
and work in tropical country, is invited to
contradict Macmillan Brown— and take
what will come to him.
♦
The Adelaide Tramways Employees’ Associa-
tion has made a bad mistake in backing two
of its officers in actions against the Tram-
ways Trust for unlawful dismissal. Both
actions failed utterly. One of the complain-
ants was watchman at a Trust depdt, where
tar was stored. It was his duty to see that
nobodv smoked on the premises; but he had
himself been found smoking, wherefore he
was discharged. This apparently amounted
to “unlawful dismissal” within the union’s
meaning of the term. The trouble nowadays
is to get a union to admit that any of its
members are ever deserving of the sack, and
the sooner the stupid idea is thrown over-
board the better for the unions, for the poli-
tical Labor party, and, more than all, for
the country. Australia is yelling at the top
of its voice for honest work and plenty of
it, with plenty of pay as its reward ; and any
organisation. Fat or Lean, which gets into
the habit of standing as Defender of dis-
honest work, or slack work, or no work, is
driving nails into the nation’s coffin.
Potatoes fell in Sydney last week amid
general acclamation, after a sort of financial
reign of horror. The fruit of the earth had
climbed (with a little assistance from
Sussex-street) to the dizzy altitude of £22
per ton. Then the overtaxed suburbs Re-
volted, and when Dad asked if he couldn’t
have another spud, Mum grimly dumped
some cabbage on his plate and passed him the
bread. Sussex-street evidently felt some-
thing go, for the Daily Telegraph’s pro-
duce reporter wrote feelinglv as follows: —
POTATOES PALL AT LAST.
The housewives’ protest has influenced the potato
position in Sussex-street rather earlier than we ex-
pected. Sellers on “the street” yesterday realised
the futility of asking £22 a ton, and even more, for
tubers of mediocre quality from a long-suffering
public. A solid drop in values was recorded, and be-
fore the week is out prices should be much nearer
normal.
He couldn’t have been more jubilant if
potatoes had been a Turkish citadel and the
Bulgarians had taken it at the point of the
bayonet. It is curious that a paper which
hates to see the potato go up like a kite for
a few brief days should have no particular
objection to trusts that establish themselves
with the intention of hoisting the price of
meat, coal and a hundred other necessaries
for good. It looks, in fact, as if the D.T. has
a grudge against the potato, or is only able
to think clearly about the potato. Or it
may be the potato man is the only other per-
son besides the Canberra fishing correspon-
dent who is allowed to let his pen go.
♦
How much more paring down must the Com-
monwealth Defence system be called upon to
endure? Among the recommendations of
the military conference, which recently sal
in Melbourne, is one that the first school of
instruction be reduced from six weeks to 14
days, and another that, until there are in-
creased range facilities, a considerable modi-
fication in the present musketry course is
necessary. An ordinary citizen, who be-
lieves in the defence of his country, and who
has been trusting the Federal Ministry to
make provision for safeguarding his home,
may reasonably get up, at this point, and
jump on his hat. Our kid army is a poor
enough business at best, and seems to have
precious little chance of getting to the front
when it is wanted, but that it should have
even less training than was at first stipu-
lated, and be handicapped from learning how
to shoot by the Government’s failure to pro-
vide ranges, is more than Door business. It
indicates that those in authority have no
more foresight or real sense or responsibility
in the matter than if the wars of nations
were Stadium boxing contests, or the hor-
rors of invasion a game played in frock coats
to the accompaniment of iced champagne.
Some people are going to be frightfully hurt
one of these days because other people are
such amazing fools..


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
At the Mid-day Lunch Hour
After you’ve eaten, go to one of our Theatres, sit down, and
watch the Pictures.
Moving Pictures Aid Digestion.
That is, the rest in a comfortable chair, the relaxation to mind
and body, permit the digestive organs to do their best.
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE ADSTRALIA
. ..and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
Crystal Palace, Lyric, Colonial,
Empress Theatres SYDNEY.
Melba and Brltann.a Theatres
MELBOURNE.
THE ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
AUSTRALIAN.
: It is as curious as it is true that, with the
N. S. Wales Society of Artists and some
imported French pugs showing in Sydney at
the same time, the local section of the Aus-
tralian public should grab the opportunity
to parade, contemptuously in the one case,
and blatantly in the other, its disdain of the
home-grown goods. On Saturday, at the
society’s gallery in Queen Victoria Markets,
a mere handful of people out of the throng-
ing thousands in tile streets, pubs, picture-
shows, saddling-paddocks, sports grounds,
Dago restaurants, petticoat palaces, etc.,
attended to examine and sympathise with the
year’s efforts of a school of young Aus-
tralians to bring the fine arts of the nation
to a reputable position. Further, with the
exception of invitation day, the same dis-
heartening neglect lias obtained since the
show wa« opened yesterday week, and it
will continue till closing day. Similarly, on
Saturday night, at the Mclnstoush Stadium,
7000 or 8000 Australians howled and hooted
at, and saw no good in the artistic biff of
one Read, whose main drawback apparently
was his Australian birth ; but the practically
unanimous shouts of joy and gladness that
yere extended to a French pug named Til
when he bashed and defeated the local
article were sufficient to awaken Eternity’s
watch below. A great and unsavory Stink-
ing Fish is still wasting Australia’s air.
This year’s Spring exhibition of the Soci-
ety of Artists goes one better than that of
1911, and 1911 produced the best work to tha t
date. It is true that the brusli-talent of such
popular artists as Douglas Fry (gone where
“no one shall work for money and no one
shall work for fame”), Sid Long, Ruby
Winckler, Alice Muskett and, most of all,
J. J. Hilder, is missing this year, neverthe-
less a wider spread excellence is observed.
A more careful weeding-out has produced a
better average quality. Which is not to say
that a lot of improvement in the quality is
impossible.
The most striking conception .n the show
is Norman Lindsay’s black and white, “The
Crucified Venus” —a piece of work which
froze criticism on the palpitating pencils of
the orthodox critics. High on the Cross of
Wowserism is the white, drooping body of
the Woman of Love with the black, iron-
faced priest driving the nails through her
hands, fanaticism in the very swing of the
hammer. On the ladder with him is the
tame curate —the kind that bites its finger-
nails. His back only can be seen, but his
features leap at once to the imagination.
Holding the ladder in place is the Glory-be-
to-God fool of the Salvation Army, while
surrounding the central figures of the tragic-
parody are sour-souled Puritans, whiskered
Wowsers, and other social wolves and spirit-
ual cannibals. In the art of characterisation,
Lindsay is here at his best, and the interpre-
tation will be long remembered. The trus-
tees of the National Gallery bought only one
of N.L.’s exhibits —a notable piece of pen-
linesmanshipentitled “The Embarkation.” He
gave it away for 10 guineas. The artist is
best in the black and white section, although
an unusual number of oils (for him) have
this show attracted more attention. His
most ambitious effort with the colors is “Vil-
lon at the Tavern of the Pomme de Pin”—
a tavern which would be known in these
dull days, when the joyous pagan in ns has
to be hidden under a mountain of pretence
which defies penetration, as “a strong joint.”
But the work is sound, and stamps the
artist. Unfortunately, a couple of adjacent
nude studies are likely to arouse little en-
thusiasm. especially amongst those who pur-
sue Lindsay’s work with the sandbag of pre-
judice. One of the models, it must be ad-
mitted, could more appropriately have been
hung on a hook in a butcher’s studio.
The “big oil” of the exhibition is “Port
of St. Ives.” by Australian-born Ilriyley
Lever. A fine appreciation of dulls in a
careful composition, it was hung at
, the Royal Academy and two other of
.T. Bull’s galleries. The trustees of the N. S.
Wales Gallery agreed to pav £250 for the
picture. Perhaps this will teach stay-at
home artists to ask more than “a few quid”
for their good works. Beside “Port of St.
Ives” is a Julian Ashton claim for £lOO.
Judgment is hereby entered for deft, public.
It isn’t quite clear what the promise was,
but judging by the expression or scowl on the
lady’s face, he didn’t keep it. Perhaps that
is what Ashton meant. In that case, it
would have been better to have labelled it
“Done Brown,” or “Pipped,” or something
like that. More likeable canvases of his
contain samples of Tasmanian scenery.
Florence Rodway gets much glad hand
from visitors. This year her work is up to
the high standard she has attained lately.
Of the dozen samples of her work, “The
Roumanian Blouse” and the lady it encom-
passes can rely on the writer’s goodwill and
personal influence at all times. A portrait
of Countess de Cisneros is not convincing:
anyhow, it isn’t the same female bush-
whacker that used to lamb down Samson at
His Majesty’s.
Ambrose Paterson, who boomed last year
with an inspired handling of “Collins Street”
(Melb.), made the mistake this year of pur-
suing success with a second helping of
exactly similar effort and very dissimilar re-
sult. No painter can do that with impunity
any more than a ballet girl could make a
success of having one leg shorter than the
other.
Lionel Lindsay shows another set of ex-
amples of his etching abilities. The Old
Sydney series is interestingly continued, and
the Aged Inhabitant is herewith invited to
blow in with a few historical and geranium-
colored episodes that roused The Whaler’s
Arms, The Sailor’s Return, The Ocean
Wave, and other pubs that went the pace
in the days of long ago. In his oil paint-
ings, the artist shows a gentler brush than
hitherto, and his sun-kissed quarters of the
port officer at Noumea and a view at low
water in the same locality are happily re-
produced.
Thea Proctor displays a couple of charm-
ingly-colored fans (one of which was bought:
by the trustees of the National Gallery) and
half a dozen pencil sketches. 11. Griffiths
lias a variety of work, good and not so good.
His main canvas, labelled “Rose,” and tick-
eted £lOO, is a bloodless business. E.
Gruner forwards choice sections of our etc.
harbor. Howard Ashton has nothing so good
as he has exhibited before —that finely de-
picted slice of Australian coast, “Looking
South,” in 1900. for instance. Bernice Ed-
well gets a mention for one or two minia-
tures—exact quality of mention not yet
decided —and the rich color brewings of
Isobel McWhannel are welcomed as old flav-
orings in the art pot.
The versatile Mildred Lovett is represented
by a sculptured child’s head, metal motives
for motor mascots, half a dozen dainty
water-colors and some delicately painted
China. The sculpture (a child’s head)
rightly goes to the National Gallery. Bla-
mire Young gets in some fine water-color
work, particularly in the use of browns, in
a “Misty Morning” and “Western Skies”—
two of a kind. W. Hardy Wilson doesn’t
arrive where he wants to in his work, but
he’s on his way. D. IT. Souter hands out a
characteristic piece of Australia from
“O’Reilly’s Selection.” A view of St.
James’s Church, in King-street, Sydney,
helps along the charge that Governor Mac-
quarie, who built the establishment, had
artistic ideas.
Artists abroad represented at the Show
are G. W. Lambert, A. H. Fuilwood, Arthur
Streeton, Tom Roberts. Fred Leist, and one
or two others. The Lambert exhibit is a
fine head of a middle-aged housekeeper, lent
(the canvas not the housekeeper) for the
occasion by Hugo R. Meyer. Outside that
there is nothing from any of them calcu-
lated to create a stampede to the vicinity.
Tom Roberts’s “Harrow on the Hill” was
evidently discovered by some cold-blooded
ruffian in the cave where it was hidden,
and forwarded with malice and spiteful an-
ticipation. Fred Leist sent out the mildest-
looking treasure-seeker seen hereabouts
since the Tote Commission went out of busi-
ness.
Owing to the desperately bad lighting of
the Gallery a number of artists, such as
Hal Thorpe, Edward M. Smith, George Bell
and one or two more who have berths in a
dark corner, suffer in comparison with others
who have less claim on the attention of
visitors. If nothing else can be done. The
Bulletin suggests that patrons of the
Show should be provided with bull’s-eye
lanterns as they approach this recess.
“K.” : What an asset Percy Scott, the gun-
nery expert, is to the British navy ! On the
evidence -of the recent Thunderer-Orion tests
with 13.5 shooting irons, he has with his new
“director” trebled the effectiveness of British
battleships’ fire. One cable message says
“the shells simply rained on the target.” And
it would only need a very brief rain of 13 5
shells to sicken the staunchest first-line ship
afloat. A genius like Scott who can treble
the whole navy’s iron clinch must he worth
the value of at least two fleets. On his latest
achievements alone, the British Government
should insure his life for about £10,000,000,
and as much more as the companies would
take. Mere kingly figureheads, with capable
understudies ready to support the Crown, are
nowadays insured for immense sums. Why
not insure the national genius and possible
saviour of the king’s possessions?
“Public Servant” interviews Mrs. Rumor :
Recent babblings in the N. S. Wales political pot are
rumored to be cooking the carefully-laid plans of the
Holman family. Mrs. Holman is already in London,
inquiring into the lot of the British woman toiler ;
Mrs. Holman’s sister is doing something vague in
London, in return for #5 a week from this benevo-
lent State ; and Holman himself was considering a trip
to London, ostensibly to expostulate with Uncle
Moses about the stringeficy in the Loan Department.
But if the Holmans didn’t have an eye on Agent-
General Tim Coghlan’s job, then some persons who
ought to know have been misinformed. Beeby’s
threatened withdrawal from the party, and the gun-
cotton proclivities of Sneaker Willis, however, have
put the proposed advance on the Big Smoke in an
unfavorable light. McGowen is all right at telling
chestnuts at public functions, and vaporing about
the dear old Motherland, but he is no good to haul
the party through the tribulations Unit are crowding
upon it. If the party is to be fairly landed, Attorney-
U°nerpl Holman is looked to by the party to Ho tb"
job. Hence its reluctance to let him depart. A
possible solution is fhat he will be allowed fo join
the ladies, on condition that he returns in time for
next sess'on, or thereabouts.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Hen Hur.”
Hur Majesty’s “The (Quaker Girl.”
Criterion “Meg, the Castaway.”
Adelphi ... “VVnat Women will doforLove.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric .. Continuous Pictures.
Colonial Continuous Pictures.
Empress Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Eden Gardens, Manly.. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her .Majesty’s “Nightbirds.”
Princess's “The King’s Romance.”
King’s “ The Christian.”
Royal “ Get-liicli-Quick Wallingford.’
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West's Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda .... The Dandies.
♦
Though “The Quaker Girl” has now been
running steadily at Her Majesty’s for over
three weeks, she has not turned a hair.
And owing to Blanche Browne, perfect con-
dition, Ivy Schilling, picturesque scenery,
Fred Leslie and other things, she looks like
continuing for a week or two more. No
finer feat of endurance was put up in the
Marathon-racing days of old Greece.
“What Women Will Do for Love” Stakes,
run at the Adelphi; four furlongs ; winner
to receive three cheers and four bouquets;
last horse numerous boo-lioos and a carrot;
about six starters :—-
John Strong’s Virtue, aged (George Cross) 1
Colonel Strangeway’s Vice, over age (H.
Linden) .. . . . . . . . . last
With their collective eye on past perform-
ances, the books offered 2 to 1 on Virtue and
50 to 1 against Vice. The field got away to
a good start, and Vice showed uu first. At
the first furlong lie had established a good
lead by smuggling Virtue’s wife, besides tak-
ing him down for £30,000 and relieving
two other starters of £lO,OOO on the pretext
of having found a marvellous coal-mine.
Betting dropped to 10 to 1 against Virtue,
even money Vice. At the end of the second
furlong, although Vice still held his lead,
Nellie Fergusson’s Kitty Sharpe, who was
jealous because Vice had chucked her, was
drawing up, and, by eavesdropping while he
was threatening the stolen wife, almost
got on terms with the outsider. But
with two furlongs to go, Vice got
away again, and by dumping the other
man’s wife into gaol on a false charge of
attempted murder, and by blowing up a
coal-mine where Virtue was. he looked a
cert., though towards the end of the furlong
the also-rans had closed up slightly. Betting
10 to 1 on Vice, 50 to 1 against Virtue. At
the last furlong Vice had such a good lead
that money changed hands at 15 to 1 on:
75 to 1 against Virtue went begging. Once
into the straight the whole field made the
pace. Virtue wasn’t blown to pieces in the
mine disaster, and his wife had come out of
gaol before her time, arid- two or three others
seemed to have the leader set. The books
“NIGHT BIRDS ,”
AT HER
MAJESTY'S ,
MELBOURNE.
VV. S. PERCY
AS THE
BLA CK-E YED
WARDER.
got cold shivers, and betting dropped to
evens Virtue. 10 to 1 against Vice. With
200 yards to go, Kitty Sharpe made a dash
and several threats, and caught Vice. Ethel
Buckley’s Martha Angelina arid F. Cross-
ley’s It. Robinson closed up, and Vice was
jambed against the rails. Then Cross laid
the whip on Virtue, and, with a special
effort and a policeman, overhauled Vice, and
got home first. Vice was a dead last. The
discredited animal was subsequently dis-
qualified for life. Great rejoicing. Bookies
walked home.
The new melodrama doesn’t leave the
time-worn ruts which most of the Adelphi
productions follow, although, of course, there
are several new situations and scenes. Good
work was done by C. R. Stanford as Lumpy
Slagg, a coal-miner (sometimes), and Nellie
Fergusson as Kitty Sharpe, a discarded
friend of Col. Strangeway’s. George Cross
as John Strong, and Nellie Rramley as
Lilian ditto, did creditably; and Ethel Buck-
ley, in one of the lighter parts, qualified for
a fifteen-penny bouquet.
“Meg. the Castaway,” a waif-play, will
replace “The Gambler’s Sweetheart” at Syd-
ney Criterion next Saturday, Maggie Moore
of course, playing the waif.
The managerial advertisement is now
threatening a docile public with the last
nights of “Ben Hur,” the grand educational
holydrama of Sydney Royal. Ben’s semi-
sacred chariot, his galley and his girls will
be withdrawn about the time when the other
schools are breaking up and suspending the
education of the young, in order to allow
time for the absorption and digestion of the
Christmas dinner.
“GET-RICH-
QUICK WAL-
LINGFORD,” AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
EDWIN LESTER
AS
G. IV. BATTLES.
The three Keltons, who woke the over-
worked echoes of Sydney Tivoli last week-
end, are an energetic musical trio. The
young daughter of the family is a xylophone
specialist, who ripples pleasantly on the long
metal instrument, and makes it babble and
gurgle coolly, like a fountain in a shady
courtyard. The same girl supplies some
uproar, though, when she plays a bass drum
with her foot, and a side drum with her
hands, and fills up a one-second wait by fir-
ing off a revolver. Magician De Hie re re-
mains the big drawing card of the hill,
though the hair-raising acrobatic work of the
Max Franklins is tremendously popular
amongst the bald, and those who enjoy elec-
tric shudders across the scalp. Nelia Webb
owns the house as long as she likes to stay;
and Will Whitburn and Tom Dawson supply
the extra-dry humor that is the champagne
of vaudeville. One or two turns are notice-
ably suffering from the last nights trouble,
and are liable to be carried off at any mo-
ment.
“The Massacre,” at the Crystal Palace, the
film over which the J. D. Williams Co. made
the most noise this week,, is of the usual Dead
Indian type, and it departs not one flick
from the ordinary course of such yarns. Still,
it has more length, more thrill and more
blood than the average, and, as a film, is
technically excellent. “The Masked Sister-
hood,” at the Colonial, is a more out-of-the-
way reel. It treats of the ways of a vague
association which holds meetings, whereat
members wear large black candle-extin-
guishers, and seem to do nothing else in
particular. They don’t even break windows
or throw worms at Prime Ministers. “Wil-
liams’ Weekly,” at the C.P., showed a very
good, thro.at-swelling series of the “March
of the Eighteen Thousand” in Melbourne,
and some rather good pictures of the late
Justice O’Connor’s funeral.
The National Amphitheatre continues to
wear the athletic Rinchs at the head of its
bill. It is hard to overstate the strength and
beauty of the lady member of the family,
but the frantic efforts at wit and humor
which characterise the male liinch have a
depressing effect on the turn. _ Anything
more tiresome than Mr. Rinch’s waggish
assaults on his wretched hirelings it would
be hard to imagine. The strenuous Violet
Black and her uproarious associates have
abandoned their railway station sketch, or
riot, and are successfully at work on “Telka,
the Half-breed,” a potted blood-play. Other
features are Mr. C. and Armstrong and
Verne. . ;
With Reg Roberts in the place where
Cannot used to be, and Chas. Albert shifted
into the shoes of the medical person who
takes the Prince’s temperature, “Night-
birds” continues to chirp at Her Majesty’s.
Especially on Saturdays. It is essentially
a Saturday night opera. It breathes the
week-end sentiment, and creates a yearning
for the infinite • —of a sort. Percy, as the
model prison warder, is still looking with a
damaged eye upon the lively lady visitors
when they are red; and the magoie plumage
of Florence Young remains a particular
triumph of the art that rules the world.


Judging by the debate on the N.S.W. Eg
timat.es, the Opposition thinks one Depart
ment ought to be rechristened the Perks.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
Insure
with the
*
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged,
' Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT. EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
A QUEENSLAND EDITOR’S LETTER.
The editor of the Cunnamulla Watchman, Mr. J.
R. Tindale, writes us as follows: “I have been living
in the S.W. district of Queensland for the last 13
years, and for nine and a half years was editor of the
ThargQmindah Hkrald. During that time I have
been subject to attacks of Diarrhoea, and have been
in the habit of taking Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy, which has always given great re-
lief and quickly cured me.”*
; bio-showmen !
HFRE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
- it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue.’ Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
T
Wallingford pursues his tumultuous
career at the Royal. The instigator of the
Universal Carpet Tack Co. is widely ap-
plauded at all points, but perhaps he reaches
the zenith of his popularity when he sits
back in his chair and appoints himselt
president of the D —d Scoundrels’ Associa-
tion. Whereupon the silvery laughter of the
galleriennes suggests that every woman is at
heart a spieler. A subsequent reference to
the fact that he is blessed with twins is
hardly less successful. One night last week
Blackie Daw retired from the performance
and left an understudy to carry on the job,
but next evening he resumed his arduous
duties. The greatest service that Blackie
renders to the U.C.T. Co. (Ltd.) is in hurl-
ing the Battlesburg cabman through an open
doorway into the loving arms of Walling-
ford, who accepts him as Live Wire.
“The Christian” failed to draw a crowded
congregation to Melbourne King’s on Satur-
day night. The present version is the one
that was perpetrated at the same theatre
two years ago, and while it differs from the
original in many respects, the brand of
Caine is over it all. “The Christian” is, of
course, sheer theatricalism from beginning
to end ; yet in this version a couple of the
best scenes, theatrically-speaking —the one
in the monastery, and the other
wherein Nurse Quayle used to hurl insulting
language at the hospital governors —are
omitted ; also, the strenuous episode of Glory,
with her Titian hair a-hanging down her
back, asking John to kiss her, has been put
in the middle of the last act, and thus robbed
of a “curtain.” In most respects, the pre-
sent Andersonian company is inferior to the
one that last handled the distressful drama.
As the gay young dog Drake, Max Clifton,
displays the solemnity of an elderly verger
out of a job, and Frank Mills’s Lord Storm
(who looks rather like Andrew Fisher)
assumes the freezing dignitv of a blanc-
mange at a mayoral banquet. As Lord Rob-
ert Ure, Beckett wears the cynical laugh of
a blameful life with a certain _ airy grace,
which is conspicuously lacking in his part-
ner in alcohol, Betty—played, with lacerat-
ing gaiety, by Miss Fanny Erris. The Storm
of Cyril Mackay rages to no great extent,
and, as Glory, Miss Eugenie Duggan’s
strangely flippant emotionalism is exoloited
to the full. Miss Olive Wilton is a fairly sat-
isfactory Polly Love; Charles Brown shouts
the gallery speeches of Father Enderby in a
manner that could not fail to win vociferous
approbation; and Temnle Harrison dresses
as Archdeacon Wealthy, and allows the
gaiters to proclaim the man. Unless Mel-
bourne unexpectedly warms to “The Chris-
tian,” Caine will be razed to-morrow (Fri-
day) night, and on Saturday the Russell-
street tabernacle will house “The Power and
the Glory.”
*** * *
At the Princess’s; these are the last nights
of “The Girl Without a Home” and the
villain who pursues her. The next item on
the Marlow programme is “The King’s
Romance,” which is said to be sentimental,
regimental and truly human. His Majesty’s
love affair starts on Saturday.
* * sis *
At Melbourne Town Hall last Saturday
afternoon the Victorian Festival Choir gave
tongue to Dvorak’s version of the gruesome
old song story of “The Spectre’s Bride,”
wherein the spook lover comes in a brotherly
spirit to take his girl to abide with him in
a boarding-house for dead people. The dam-
sel, however, prays herself out of the awful
trouble she had previously prayed herself
into. The music is sweeter than the yarn,
and the Choir and Professional Orchestra,
admirably conducted by Felix Gade, gave a
forcible rendering of the. grim cantata. In
the solo parts the baritone (Fred Collier)
came easily first. His voice is good, and he
sang the narrative numbers expressively.
Miss Eileen O’Brien’s soprano was not
always' easy with the music or ever quite
strong enough, but she put in her best work
at the finish, whereas the tenor sang faultily
from first to last, and was perhaps Worried
by musings over his sartorial indiscretions.
He had come in a dress suit and gleaming
shirt front to an afternoon concert. The
V.F.C. and V.P.O. are arranging a series of
six concerts for next year, orchestral and
choral alternately. A guinea subscription
will buy one reserved seat for each of the
six, and half a guinea will do likewise for
three of them.
*** * *
Among a multitude of song-and-talk
artists at the Opera House (whence the
acrobats and jugglers of yore have mostly
departed), Taylor and Arnold are the least
conventional, whilst the Lyntons, whose
“sketch” dialogue is only a weak excuse for
their singing, compare favorably with the
more boosted items. Taylor and Arnold,
assisted by the piano whereon one of them
plays ragtime accompaniments to their dit-
ties, and the dainty girl whom the other one
places atop of the piano, are tuneful and'
light-hearted exponents of coonyiddisher
eccentricity. There is a haunting oddity
about their manner of earning a living,, and
a distinct flavor that improves on acquaint-
ance. If Taylor or Arnold will kindly cease
to mention onions in connection with the
breath of the heavenly damsel, and both of
them will nay due homage to her prettiness,
the turn should be all the better. In the
case of the Lyntons aforesaid, the male part-
ner plays up to the nice little lady for all
she is worth. Borneo Gardiner, who
whistles, and Alberto Marini, a typical little
Italian tenor with a pleasing voice and un-
romantic style, are other newcomers. Also.
Miss Claire Romaine. just arrived, shares
the centre of the bill with Miss Florence
Baines, now at the end of her innings. Claire
Romaine is clothed but not disguised in a
boy’s knickerbocker suit, and she sings what
are called “catchy chorus songs” intelli-
gently. The alleged brilliancy of the plump
lady’s male impersonation is not dazzling,
nor are her songs very humorously vulgar.
Being risky, they may catch a chorus, which
is a complaint easily acquired.
Branscombe’s Dandies are drawing the
multitude to their comfortable quarters oft
St. Kilda Esplanade. The show has plenty
of stage-room, and the audience sits happy
under that inverted bowl we call the sky
because a canvas roof lies in waiting for
emergencies. The occasional unfurling or
the roof counts as an act of managerial
courtesy which is invariably received with
cheers. Critically considered, the Dandies
are soothing, rather than exciting. The con-
certed numbers are quaint; Miss Henderson
has a telling way with her; the principal
funny man betrays a sense of humor; nobody
suggests hasty flight; and Miss Dorothy
Manning’s light soprano voice is sweet and
smooth.
** * *
There were moments of patriotic agita-
tion at Melbourne Olympia on Saturday,
when Spencer screened the recent “March of
the Eighteen Thousand.” The sight of Aus-
tralia’s Hopes striding along with all the
pride of the battle-scarred stirred even the
usually apathetic to the basements of their
boots,‘and the picture finally faded into the
surrounding darkness with a rush of ap-
plause that shook the place. “The Charge
of the Eight Brigade” similarly churned up
the emotions of the multitude, though the
theme was carelessly treated, and showed
that in the arming of the supers someone
had blundered. Turning to the fiction de-
partment. this paper felt that the best item
on the list was “The Woman Hater,” the
obvious tale of a man who falls a prey to a
lovely blonde through over-estimating his
resistance to female fascination.
* :1c
An uncomfortably long production of “The
Pilgrim’s Progress,” at Melbourne Majestic
on Saturday, nearly turned that house of
amusement into a d.en of sleep ; but a bark
of disapproval aroused the rest of the con-
gregation. Some other films were a com-
pensation—notably “Getting Rid of Trouble”
and “Polidor Makes Himself Known,” which
sent even the demonstrative portion of the
crowd away in an amiable frame of mind.
“WHAT WOMEN WILL DO FOR LOVE,''
AT THE SYDNEY ADELTHI.
At half-time the villain (Herlert I Auden) and
J. P. O' Neill falsely accuse the heroine of
attev'ipted murder. 7'he villain lives through
the play , much to geheral disappointment.
AT POVERTY POINT.
THE SHAKSPEARE MEMORIAE.
TFob The Bulletin.]
“Shakspeare Me-mor-i-al!” sneers Jim —
The scheme does not appeal to him—
He’s got a sort of notion dim
That Shakspeare was a fraud.
“ ’E never wrote them plays of his!
A bloke named Bacon done the biz!
’ls is the name as ought ter fizz —
An’, bli’me, it’s ignored!
“A show-box they’re a-goin’ ter raise—
A Shakspeare show-box where them plays
Of that old swindler (spare me days!)
We’ll permynently see.
I want ter git that ideer killed ;
The lists ’d be much quicker filled,
My oath! if they instead ’<l build
A Bacon factoree!”
EARDLEY TURNER.
x.s.w.
From 'an Adelaide commentator :
“The Playboy of the Western World,” much dis-
cussed of late, has been given a rendering in Aus-
tralia by the Literary Theatre of Adelaide. (The
royalty was too heavy to allow the usual two even-
ings.) Synge has built a good comedy round a bad
central idea. Christy comes to a far West-of-Ireland
pub, Where he is unknown, and announces that he
has killed his father. The whole neighborhood, in-
stead of being horrified, thinks him a daredevil hero,
and welcomes him as friend, barman, or husband.
Why Synge should thus libel his fellow-countrymen
is a mystery, and it has made certain Irishmen in
Adelaide, as elsewhere, rather savage. Granting this
idea (and without it,there would be no play at all),
the treatment is charming, and an Irishman fresh
from Galway assures this writer that (barring the
libel), the local color is correct. Galway, one gath-
ers/ calls on the Deity and assorted saints on the
smallest provocation, and never uses the words “yes”
or “no.” “Have you killed your dad?” Negative: “I
have not.” Affirmative: “By the help of Almighty
God, I have.” Christy is only a lying, shiftless
youth, who, much badgered, had floored his parent
with a hoe, and the old man comes after and beats
him for it. Christy has to use the hoe again, and
this time the fickle neighbors are horrified ; but
there is another resurrection, and things become
farcical. George Moore has called this “the most
significant play for 200 years,” which verdict is
plain rubbish. " Still, it is a thing not to miss. Roy
Walsh and Jean Robertson were delightful as the
youth and the girl, and the support was more than
adequate, some of the best players making-up care-
fully for tiny parts. The soft western brogue was
weli sustained, and most of the ladies conscientiously
saw the thing through barelegged. And it was a
cold night, too.
** * *
La Freya’s posing at Adelaide Tivoli goes
to show the need for copyright in variety
turns. A show just given at another house
was much the same thing, in mounting,
lighting, and- even some of the subjects.
The turn is highly popular. So is that of
“My Fancy,” back from foreign parts,
dancing as lightly and looking as young as
ever. Welch and Carbasse, however, are
only moderately funny in their playlet. The
Olracs dwarf all others at the King’s. Allen
Doone has moved on from the Royal to
Broken Hill, after a big farewell, in which
he lamented that-some bad adviser unnamed
had put him off visiting Adelaide till now.
“Every .night seems Irish night here,” said
he. Enter to the Royal “The Girl Who
Knew at Bit,” With William Anderson him-
self suf)erinten()ing her appearance. Won-
dergraph has a beauty competition running,
with 17 ladies in each heat. West’s, Em-
pire and Central are getting as near to the
war as they can, and the little Pav. goes
gaily along all day: but a return of winter
has made the various outdoor shows look
thoughtful.
“W” : Apropos of the statement (B. 7/11/’l2) that
“Struck Oil” was being revived in Sydney for the
479,328 th time. An advertisement in the Adelaide
Advertiser, early in Sep., 1875, at the end of the
first Williamson season there, intimated that it was
“the 333rd performance, and positively the last
appearance in Australia of Mr. J. C. Williamson and
Miss Maggie Moore.” By the way, “Struck Oil”
was the first play to run for more than a week in
Adelaide.
“Propstick”: It is not correct that Barry Sullivan
ran Faust in Melbourne for 24 weeks. I think it was
24 nights. [The man wrote “six” weeks, and wrote
it so badly that it was transmogrified into 24.]
Probably his longest run was with the “Lalla
Rookh” pantomime, in which Young and Stewart
alternated Ithorsanbad, and the splendid double har-
lequinade was furnished by the Edouins and Leo-
polds. There was not anything like such a good one
till Bland Holt clowned, with Joe Tolano as panty.
The longest Melbourne run up to the ’Bo’s was “Tam-
bour Major’s” 100 nights, with Pattie Laverne, Nellie
Stewart, Harwood, Wallace, Mervin and Brennir.
Next longest before the ’9o’s was “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin” —over 80 nights at the old wooden Princess’s.
“W.J.H.”: Marie LShr has returned to the London
stage, looking none the worse for being married.
She appeared at Wyndham’s Theatre, in “Doormats,”
by 11. H. Davies. The dialogue is smart and snappy,
but the piece is thin in other respects. The text
is that humanity may be divided into two main
classes—boots and doormats. It isn’t true. There
are plenty of neople who are a bit of both. Marie
Lohr was'not well suited as the catty wife of a young
artist. Nina Boucicault is also in the cast, playing
a delightful old Aunt Josephine. And it seems only
the other night that I saw her playing bright, dancing
young colleens with daddy Dion in Melb. Theatre
Royal. Time does fly !
“Hamer”: The wages of risking death
for cinematograph purposes are £3 ss.
per week. So much came out in the
action of a “picture” actor for breach of
contract. He had been engaged for 12
months at a screw of 655., and one of
the things he had to do was to walk over
a rope stretched across a chasm. He
reckoned the thing too dangerous, and re-
fused, wherefore his contract was can-
celled. The Court considered that the
actor who refused to risk his neck for
655. per week didn’t know when he was
well off, and dismissed his action. Writer
knows of another picture actor who re-
fused an attractive offer a few weeks ago.
The engagement was with a new picture
firm with several plots ready for filming.
On inquiry he discovered that he would
have to, inter alia, (1) precipitate him-
self from a railway bridge into the water ;
(2) take part in a motor-car smash ; (3)
drive a buggy into a river, where it was
to be upset; (4) jump from a moving
train; (5) make a parachute descent from
a balloon : (6) leap from a supposedly
burning building into a blanket; and (7)
ride on the footboard of a train. Seventy
shillings a week was offered for that job,
but the picture-actor considered there was
too much excitement in it for the money.
“Busk”: “Milestones” is rather dry tack to read;
yet it has triumphantly proved its acting quality,
drawing blood at every line. From this one will
muse on the difference between reading and acting.
Those of Pinero’s comedies which read the best
failed on the stage. The first-night audience was on
the point of condemning such masterpieces as Gold-
smith’s “She Stoops to Conquer” and Sheridan’s
“Rivals.” On the other hand, passages of Shak-
speare, which read like nonsense, invariably hit an
audience hard. Where is the fun in Polonius’s say-
ing, “Very like a whale”? Yet nothing on the comic
stage is safer for a big laugh. The greatest marvel
of all is that Bernard Shaw’s interminable dialogues
prove eminently actable with the birdlime. The
authors of “Milestones,” one of whom is “Kismet”
Knoblauch (German for garlic), avoid Pinero’s
recent fault of making the dialogue too snappy. He
got this whipcord from Sardou, with whom it was
telling. Pinero’s characters nowadays are hardlv
allowed to finish their sentences. But “Milestones”
runs with suavity, and I am tempted to call the
dialogue masterly.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Let me nail down a bad
mistake before it travels far. In an article on “The
Earh' Australian Stage,” the S. M. Herald says
that George Howe, the first Australian printer, was
one of the actors in a performance given at the
Sydney Theatre in 1796. As a matter of fact,
George Howe was not the first Australian printer;
nor was the printer Howe an actor, amateur or pro-
fessional. Moreover, he did not arrive in Sydney
until the year 1800.
“C. Ockney”: Mention made in a “Poverty Point”
par (B. 7/11/’l2) of a thunderstorm effect intro-
duced by Pinero into his one-act play written for
Charles Frohman’s triple bill, recalls the fact that
the hairless playwright has always had a penchant
for stage storms. In his first acted play—“ Daisy’s
Escape,” a curtain-raiser done at the Lyceum under
Henry Irving’s management—a snowstorm played
the star part. A thunderstorm may almost be said
to have lead in “Dandy Dick.” And there was a
snowstorm in the quite recent “Preserving Mr. Pan-
mure.”
“Stargazer”: I find American plays and American
actors painfully deficient in pathos, yet displaying
an unwholesome fondness for it. When an American
play or player descends to tenderness, he betrays the
mechanical artificiality of Dickens. He is cleverly
sentimental, but never convincingly so. In “Get-
Rich-Quick Wallingford” this trait is very conspicu-
ous. The two misleading Americans jolt into a sad
or tender humor, and nobody imagines for a moment
that they can possibly mean it. this is true in real
life also. Did you ever hear an American talk ten-
derly and respectfully about Woman (and the
American is distressingly fond of .verbal excursions
in mush) Without feeling that he was stepping aside
from the realities of life, and indulging himself in a
dish of mock turtle thickened with treacle?
(Continued on page 30.)
Thai; gay and festive youth, Percy Hun-
ter, Director of Immigration to N. S. Wales,
or Plenipotentiary-in-General for the State,
or something equally fascinating and gold-
topped, was anxiously inquired for in the
Assembly the other day. The Government
disgorged the following information: —
(1) Mr. Percy Hunter is in London “conducting a
special campaign” for parlormaids and scullery-girls.
(2) He is being paid his usual salary, plus 255.
a day.
(3) He found it necessary to engage a lady to
assist in recruiting Maryanne.
(4) So he engaged Miss Una Kidgell, who is tem-
porarily in London. (Her sister, Mrs. Holman, also
happened to be in London at the same time, Out, ot'
course, the Holmans made no difference to Percy.)
(5) Miss Kidgell is being paid £5 a week.
There’s one thing about this Labor and Re-
form Government of N. S. Wales: it is game
to the verge of insanity.
S. M. Hebald (22/11/’l2) made a start-
ling admission in connection with the pro-
posed alterations in the Constitution. An-
swering Attorney-General Hughes’s query as
to why prices of commodities shouldn’t be
regulated, the S.M.H. blurted out con-
temptuously, “The only way prices can be
effectively regulated is by the nationalisation
of industries.” If that is really the only
way, then it is the way the community is
bound to go helter-skelter very shortly. For
nothing is more certain than that the people,
groaning under the weight of increased
prices, will insist that they shall be regu-
lated somehow.
“Lex” appears for the defence: —
Re “The Majesty of the Law and the Mercy of
Holman” (B. 14/11/’l2). So far as Holman was
concerned, it was not in his power to save the child,
Alice Wilkins, from gaol; arid so far as Alice was
concerned, there is not the slightest doubt that she
deseived something pretty strenuous in the way of
punishment. As to Holman, it must be remembered
that the magistrate not only imposed a fine, but
ordered costs. The fine the Attorney-General might
have remitted had he seen fit, but the costs he had
no power whatever to' interfere with. Nothing that
any Minister could do freed the child’s parents of the
liability to pay costs, and if they went unpaid she
was as certain to go to prison as though the fine
were unpaid. Therefore, as the fine was undoubtedly
richly deserved, there didn’t seem much point, in
the circumstances, in remitting it.
Alfred Deakin formally announced his re-
turn to the cave dwellers last week, when he
stated that he would vote against the whole
six Referenda Bills, “because they turn their
back on true Federalism and make for Unifi-
cation.” No matter what the Bills make
for, the people have a right to vote on them
and decide whether they will have the pro-
posed changes or not. The only thing to be
first decided is whether there is any sub-
stantial demand for the changes ; and even
Deakin cannot deny that there is—the last
Referenda proved that much. As to Unifi-
cation, Deakin evidently doesn’t see that if
Federation stands for glorification of the
Trust, and oppression of the nation by rings
and combines, the triumph of Unification is
only a matter of time; wherefore in this
matter Affable, by giving the Trust a chance,
is an enemy of Federation, instead of the
friend he thinks he is.
The Federal Parliament has decided that
seamen shall be entitled to use the ship’s
library equally with first-class passengers.
It will be easy enough, though, to make
things so uncomfortable for the sailor that
he will never push his way aft and lay a
tarry thumb on one sacred page of the books
hitherto reserved for passengers. Still, the
right to do it, if he should feel so disposed,
may make him feel better in the long, cold
watches of the night. It is something like
John Smith’s right to stand for Parliament
—a right which he can’t exercise without
being called seven sorts of blackleg and a
number of varieties of traitor. But he
knows he has the right, and the knowledge
helps him to endure a lot of things that he
would otherwise want to smash with an axe.
The Mount Balfour (Tas.) people, to
whom the Tory Government, assisted by one
or two short-sighted Labor members, gave a
r>o-year charter to exploit the north-west
corner of the Island by a railway, are now
applying to Parliament for a 50,000-acre
timber concession. The excuse for the rail-
way concession was that there was no way
of conveying the anticipated millions of ton's
of copper from Mount Balfour to the sea-
board. Nothing was said about such a ple-
beian product as timber. Indeed, the pro-
moters plumed themselves on their modesty
in not asking Parliament for anything but
the right to build the railway. But, as
usual, having once got in, here they are
again! First it was copper, now it is tim-
ber. next year it will probably be plain
mud. The eccentric Whitsitt, M.H.A., who
is a great financier, having put in part of a
well-spent youth clerking in a small bank,
is sponsor for the latest syndicate Bill.
“Ratlin the Reefer”: A novel trade dis-
pute has erupted in Sydney. The Ship
Painters and Dockers’ Union is working,
under an award of the Arbitration Courts
but the men recently declared the wage rate-
to be insufficient, and demanded an increase-
The employers refused to budge from the-
award, whereat the men talked strike. Their-
officials, from a lively fear of finding them-
selves in gaol, tried to dissuade them, but a
general burst-up seemed imminent until a
bright individual discovered a beautiful
way-out. The award provides for a daily
wage with increased rates for overtime;
but it does not insist on men work-
ing overtime. The beautiful scheme
was not to work overtime. The idea
was adopted. and is causing Sheol-
also Chaos. Ship docking is a business in
which overtime musk be worked. Vessels
arrive at all hours and timetables have to.
be kept. If the trouble continues much
longer, Sydney as a docking port will be
put on a few black lists. The men say they
are not striking, but are merely exercising
“passive resistance.” I don’t know whether
that is a correct interpretation; but I’m
dead certain .that it is not what they’d de-
fine it if the employers were working a simi-
lar point to side-step an award that didn’t
altogether satisfy them.


COOL ZEPHYR PYJAMAS.
I
Kugelmann's
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free v ample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Ivugelmanrvs Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
4,
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Light and cool, comfortable, these Zephyr Pyjamas are the ideal
summer selection. The value offered here is excellent —indeed
you would have to search far to find its equal. One reason
why we can offer these Pyjamas at 9s. 6d., a really low price
for such good value, is that we make the garments in our own
workrooms from specially imported materials.
Price 9/6 per Suit—3 Suits for 27(6
They may be had in White Grounds with Green, Blue,
Heliotrope and Black Stripes—strong wearing Zephyr—well
finished. In sizes 34in. to 44in. chest measure.
Price 9/0 P er -Suit, or 3 Suits for
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE.
27/6
DAVID JONES, LTD.
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
♦
A RIPPLE FROM BREAKFAST CREEK.
[For The Bulletin.]
Mr. J. W. Walker, of Breakfast Creek, the holder
of the first prize ticket in the Eight-hour Art Union,
has informed the secretary of the committee that he
and his brother intend to present the diamond tiara,
which is valued at £750, to their sister, who is
keeping house for them. —News item.
It may be a mirror of Summer’s sky,
Or the usual scar in a plain bone-dry—
The long, jagged wound of a Winter flood
With down in the centre a strip of mud ;
But of Breakfast Creek I shall always dream
As a tree-fringed, stone-lined,
Chattering,
Clattering
Mountain stream.
She may be quite old, or she may be young,
The pride of the people she lives among ;
With my eyes half-closed I can see her there,
Singing away while she does her share,
And the two big “boys” for their day’s work start
From the home made bright by
Motherly,
Brotherly
Sister’s art.
Does she keep the crown safely locked away?
Does she bring it out in a shame-faced way
On those wondrous days when a stranger calls
And looks all around at the print-decked walls—
The green Event in a flat Sahara?
Oh, I’d love to think
That she made him blink,
And “knocked him silly,”
And “struck him pink,”
And “turned him dillw,”
Then drove him to drink
By coming in iveciring her new tiara!
N.S.W.
FOE.
BETWEEN TWO OPINIONS.
“ Dear , dear! And in broad daylight , too!
I wonder whether it would be best to give
them a tract or lend them an umbrella."
“Barnabas de Burke” clears things up :
Ferdinando Dudley Lea Smith, who is a Lieut.-
Col., is not, as the cables lately implied, attacking
ex-G.-G. Dudley’s title to the earldom. All he is
after is the Barony of Dudley. This title was created
in 1302, when John de Sutton was summoned by
writ to a King’s Council. Thus he became the first
baron. The writ which called him to legislate per-
manently ennobled his blood and the blood of the
heirs of his body, male and female. In 1643 the
ninth baron died, and Frances, his grand-daughter,
succeeded to the title. She was then the wife of
Humble Ward, a rich banker of London. From him
Charles I. floated large loans while in a state of
financial panic, amt/ before his illustrious Majesty
quite lost his head, the King repaid his creditor
by dubbing him Lord Ward of Birmingham. This
title is now held by the present Earl of Dudley.
Edward Ward was the eldest son of the marriage of
Frances with Humble Ward. He, of course, suc-
ceeded to both the Ward and the Dudley baronies.
Smith claims descent from him, while the ex-Ex-
cellency traces his evolution from the third son.
The 14th baron Dudley died in 1757, unmarried
and uncuddled, and the barony fell in abeyance
among three sisters. Although the writ of baronv
“permanently ennobles the blood” of both male's
and females, if there be more than one female the
title just floats about, without an owner, till they
are all dead but one, or until a male can establish
a claim. The eldest of these three sisters was the
Hon. Anne Smith who, the claimant savs, was his great
great grandmother. The Earldom of Dudley did not
come into existence until 1860, and it is exquisitely
delightful_ to think that nobody is trying to get
it from his recent Excellency. The Smith man com-
mands the sixth Worcestershires. He served in the
S’African farm-burning expedition, and married, like
a true soldier, a canon’s daughter.
Melbourne detectives are up against a
baffling sort of tragedy. On a November
evening Robert McGregor had a “party” at
his house in P’ran, and the time passed in
eating, drinking and gramophoning. At
two o’clock next morning a knock was heard
at the front door, and McGregor went to
see who was there. Whoever it was stood on
the footpath and fired five shots from a re-
volver at him, two of which were so well
aimed that the victim was buried on the
Sunday. And that summarises everything
that is known definitely about the why and
how. McGregor’s real name was McGrindle,
and he had a young wife and two very small
children. The pair had separated a few
months ago, allegedly to economise; but the
grass widower foregathered with a damsel
of 19 or 20, and dwelt with her in a house, with
sundry other young couples. Probably re-
cognising that he had made a mess of things,
the dying man declined to say anything of
the episode beyond the assertion, given with
an inscrutable smile, that he “didn’t know
who shot him,” and every one of the other
17 persons who were at the party is in a
similar state of ignorance or plain “Dunno.”
And all that the Law can do at the moment
is to hunt up a man who faded away from
the gay and festive scene early, and ask him
why he did it.
As the Antarctic vessel Aurora will not
proceed to Mawsonville until about the end
of December, it is putting in time cruising
about Macquarie Island, the microscopical
penguin-roost which Maoriland claimed until
Tasmania unearthed an old letter or chart,
or something, in Downing-street naming the
speck as one of the possessions of Van
Diemen’s Land. Biologist Flynn, of the
Tas. University, climbed aboard the ship as
it crawled out of the Derwent the other day,
and will (weather permitting) put in a few
weeks hauling strange and slimy things out
of the great southern deep. He will return
(also w T .p.) in time to eat his Christmas
dinner at Hobart.
“Genung” on two varieties of war-
chariot :
Re the value of the bike in time of war. My first
school was in the Mallee. In fact, it was two schools,
at which I taught on alternate days. They were
eight miles apart. I had never ridden horseback,
but I knew all about the hike. My steel-and-rubber-
steed was all right in summer. The only trouble I
had was in pushing her through miles of fine dust.
But I always managed to do the eight miles in under
two hours. When winter came it was a different
yam. The first wet
day I dislocated six
fingers on my right
hand, through a side-
slip on the greased
track. After that I’d
have to lift the brute
on to my shoulder,
with about half a ton
of gluey mud between
the forks. Then I’d
have to climb up on a
post-and-rail, and walk
Blondin for a mile at
a stretch. The road
was just a spread of
affectionate mud, six
inches deep at least,
sometimes six f‘e et.
After I’d arrived at
school three times at
11 o’clock, and found
all my pupils departed
under the impression
that i t was the
Queen’s Birthday, I
guessed the time was
ripe for a change. I
sent my bike home
and hired a big, ex-
ploughhorse with a
back like a sofa ; and all went merry as could be. The
bike is exceedingly useful for flitting round places
with metalled roads, but for the earth tracks of the
Back Ways it’s simply—-I’ll stop. The children are
listening.
The horse cabman has had his day—and
his night, too. But, like all first-class
brigands, he is dying hard. Our fathers
paid tribute to him and groaned ; but they
were compelled to use his gloomy tumbrel,
for the travelling gas-engine was not yet.
Time and petrol have, however, emancipated
the travelling public, so that it is now
possible to ride in a machine which has a
mechanical device or liar for calculating the
charges; wherefore no modern man need
put himself in the way of argument or insult
by immuring himself in a sort of bathing
machine driven by a licensed pirate, who
intends to hold him to ransom. The nat-
ural consequence is that the grand old job
or robbery called horse-cabbing is not
in a flourishing state. The general pub-
lic cannot be dragged out • of the
hated taxis; but the Federal Labor
member is a more vulnerable bird,
and at him the Cabmen’s Union lately shot
a charge of ingratitude for getting himself
gassed home at night, instead of using the
archaic horse-cabs that helped the cause at
bygone election time. When the once up-
pish cabman starts to ' talk feebly about
gratitude, he is at the end of his resources,
and it is time for him to fold up his horse
and steal silently away to a boiling-down
studio.
Adelaide has beaten its own good record
for weird fatalities. What are the odds
against a lighthousekeeper, comfortably
asleep, being charged into by a wandering
vessel, and burled, with his lighthouse, into
an angry sea? Yet that is what happened
to two good men, Fransom and McGowan,
at two o’clock on a recent Sunday morning,
The ship Dimsdale, arriving from South
America, went up St. Vincent’s Gulf without
a pilot—the captain knowing the port—-
and somehow blundered on to the Wonga
light, at the mouth of the Port River, and
GENUINE.
li Must be an old master!"
11 Why?"
“Because no modern umbrella would stand that."
carried away the whole thing. The lantern
weighed 20 tons, and the two keepers never
had a chance. The only outside witness, a
lookout on shore, saw the collision
through his night-glasses, and was so knocked
over by the shock that he was unable to
attend the inquest. The whole thing is a
puzzle. The ship’s officers swear they are
all total abstainers, and that is the only
explanation that has been offered so far.
Members of a gilded sporting coterie in
Sydney are urging Premier McGowen and
his Labah Cabinet to import red deer from
Scotland, and turn them loose on the Mon-
aro highlands. This is a natural sequence
of the State’s action in stocking the Monaro
rivers with trout, and the advantages to
accrue are being detailed in an awed whis-
per. They are to this effect: —
Wealthy tourists will come in mobs to shoot the
deer.
They (the w.t.’s) will scatter cash in all directions,
and give tips to—er—railway pawtahs, waiters,
housemaids, guides and—er —all that beastly sort of
thing, you know.
There will be such a boom in ammunition that
Lithgow will be able to quit making cartridges for
the small-boy army, and sell them, instead, to the
aforesaid wealthy tourists.
The money obtained from gun licenses will be a
godsend to a Government so loan-jifn-iammed that
Cohen refuses to serve it. i
Scottish immigrants will be able to earn money
as guides, instead of mooching up and down George-
street, looking for the parish work-house. , '
The trade in Alpine hats, tin-openers and cork-
screws will be paralysing.
The Bulletin isn’t overwhelmed with joy
at the prospect, but where its admira-
tion leaps is at the growing popularity of
Socialism in the most exclusive circles. The
time is coming when, motor-cars, cham-
pagne, chorus-girls, deer-parks. Agout-
streams, shooting-reserves and a few other
trifles being provided for wealthy tourists
and their friends by the State, Socialism
will be claimed as a class monopoly.
* * * *
ANGELS’ FLIGHT.
[For The Bulletin.]
The Davlesford (Vic.) Hospital Committee com-
plains dismally of the ungrateful conduct of patients
who run away with their nurses. Six of the staff
have married within a few weeks.'
The man is down and almost done.
What chance has he with grinning fate ?
The nurse’s work is well begun
While he is weak and canpot run.
When better is his fleshly state
To run, alas, it is too late.
Don’t blame the stricken, bed-bound man ;
The fault is wholly with the other.
In silent wards, with drug or knife,
They save the pallid patient’s life,
Then send him packing with a wife.
In short, the hapless, stricken brother
Leaves one complaint to take another.
SILAS SNELL.
VICTORIA.
“II.”: Speaker Willis’s methods are
having their effect on scores of chairmen,
and meetings that once draggled all over
the landscape are being whipped up intc
neat, orderly, business-like parcels. The
other evening I met a society which used to
wander round the compass, and then go
home without getting where it wanted to.
The old habit started along with the “busi-
ness.” Someone arose and moved that the
meeting express its sympathy with Mr.
Dash in the loss of his mother; and some-
body else thought that Mr. Blank should be
commiserated on the
loss of his sister.
The chairman : “I have
a motion of condo-
lence with Mr. Dash
in the loss of his
mother, and with Mr.
Blank in the loss of
his sister. Now, before
I put the motion, are
there any others?”
The shocked meeting
was silent. “Well,”
pursued the chairman,
“if there are no others
I will put the motion.
All of that opinion say
‘A y e.’ To the con-
trary, ‘No.’ I declare
the ‘Ayes’ have it.”
The meeting half-rose
for an instant, and
then reseated itself,
when it reflected that
there really wasn’t
anything to “protest”
about, after which it
had to listen to its
chairman expressing
to Dash and Blank
the pleasure it af-
forded him to convey
to them the resolution
they had heard car-
ried. The meeting got
down to its real busi-
ness then —and stuck to it.
* * * *
The monkey—the imntoral, gibbering brute
so intimately associated with Rome and
Music —was the subject of neighborly liti-
gation in Melbourne the other day. A lady
who had been bitten several times by a de-
mented pole-climber sought, by the grace of
a Supreme Court judgment, to obtain 10
guineas damages and the useless life of the
gibberer. The female owner, or first friend,
of the ape. after being cautioned by his
Honor that a monkey had not, like the re-
spectable dog, the privilege of one free bite,
shuffled in wretchedness when, pressed for a
definite assurance that she would have the
immoral animal killed quite dead. Appar-
ently, its lunatic grimaces and latest scratch-
ings were indispensable to the happiness of
the household, for she elected to pay the
damages claimed and the costs of the action
rather than give her promise that its shame-
ful existence should be ended. As the Judge
pointed out, the unclean beast is liable to
ruin her financially, unless it is sent across
the Styx, or wherever the waste products of
Creation are consigned. There are plenty
of people who, if bitten by our remote and
disgraceful ancestor, will be satisfied with
nothing less than £lO,OOO and the life of the
owner.
THE TERRIBLE INFANT AGAIN.
Smali Boy : “A lady to see you, sir.''
Artist-: “ Well—who is she?"
Small Boy: “/ don’t know, sir ; hut I think
she's a moral."


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
die proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Speedy and
thorough
cleansing
Mrs. M. Crawford, of Leichhardt,
Sydney, writes : —
“ I find it pays me to use
‘ Sunlight 5 because of the
speed and thoroughness with
which it does its work. It
gives a fresh and new appear-
ance to prints and cashmeres,
which no other Soap I have
eyer tried can do.”
COOD
UnlighT
LAUNDRY SOAP
Beautiful Finger Nails.
Would you like to have your nails possess-
that pink, shiny, shelly appearance that is.
so attractive ?
If so, use
De Leon’s
Nail Polishing Powder.
A dainty toilet specially obtainable in 1/6
boxes from Washington H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co., all Chemists, am«l
the proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt & Co. ,
Melbourne.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT S CO , Melbourne
for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
Compressed Fibre Suit Cases
The holiday-maker
has a real need for
such a case as illus-
trated here.
Com pact—light—
spacious—and excep-
tionally strong, they
appeal to all who
desire to simplify
the transport of lug-
gage. Compressed
fibre, with iron
frame, nickel bound.
Leather-capped cor-
ners, strong handle*
and two solid Nickel
Lever Sliding Locks.
Depth, 8 inches.
-/eg
•SiK)[ saqoui 9S
24
30/-
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
TT
16 18 20 22
18/6 21/- 22/6 25/-
Jiarger sizes carry sufficient for two or three weeks’ holiday.
New Catalogue of Men’s Wear posted on request.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
“Melb”: The lately-published histories of
Hawthorn, by Colles, and Kew, by Barn-
ard, are good, though not so good as Cooper’s
Prahran. (By the way, Cooper is now
writing a history of St. Ivilda.) Hawthorn,
Ivew, Toorak, South Yarra and Prahran
were all included in the run taken up by
Gardiner who lived near the junction of
Gardiner’s Creek and the Yarra. He cleared
,Zirj. m ? , ; ln #,y J ’ thin L- 0 " t ‘iv s , pro ;
digiously rich holding. Afterwards the land
was mysteriously comprised in. Elgar’s
special survey. Elgar also evaporated with-
out doing any good. A third lot then ar-
and Hepburn "were the
diner’s squattage of much account, and
went away, Hawdon to Dandenong. Gar-
diner ultimately settled at Mooroolbark.
According to some. Hawthorn was first
spelt Hawthorne—after Lieutenant Ilaw-
thorne, of H.M.S. Phantom. But I think
it more probable that J. F. Palmer named
it because the copious bushes on his estate
by the Yarra were like English hawthorn,
It was this Palmer who established the
punt leading over to Richmond—replaced
in 1851 by a wooden bridae and in 1861 bv
the present iron one. y
* * * *
“ J.L.F.”: St. James’s Church in West
Melbourne was the Cathedral of the Angli-
cans ot Victoria till the big building opposite
Young and Jackson’s pub was erected. St.
James’s old stone church arrived in William-
StrGPt in 1 twn vpa n ffor Phillin
had got a senaratG nersonflSv Th/v ho d
presented himself to the Archbishop, and
showed his baptismal certificate. It was
dated April, 1838—a year and a half before
the first stone of St. James’s was laid. The
writer of this par. was present in the old
tabernacle when Bishop Moorhouse, after-
wards of Manchester, was installed. A few
years later, he was in St. Francis’s R.C.
Church, when he heard the name of Moor-
house received with great applause. “That
brilliant man, Dr. Moorhouse,” were the
words that brought the cheers; and there
was a lot behind the noise. You couldn’t
have made Moorhouse a Wowser if you had
tried. St. Francis’s Church (the old R.C.
Cathedral) runs St. James’s very close for
age. It was built by Father Geoghegan,
wlio afterwards was made Bishop of
Adelaide.
HIS BRAND.
At a meeting of ministers yesterday, respecting the
forthcoming Ohapman-Alexander mission in Sydney,
there was much concern as to the manner in which
“sinners” were to be given preference to “Christians,’ 7
It was pointed out that on the occasion of the pre-
vious piission all the available space in the Town
Hall was occupied by the latter.
Parson (at the door) : “Excuse me ! Are you
a Christian or a sinner ? ”
811.1.0 : “ Whctt the dyer take me
for? Em a Christian, o' course . ”
“Nil”: Here's to “Hassan (B. i/11/12)
and his notion about populating the N.T. by
sending up our criminals as an advance-
guard or clearing gang ■ Here in Adelaide
we have nearly as many hobos, bunko-steer-
ers, burglars, blackguards, beasts, and bound-
ers as you have in the Eastern States. They
are mostly roaming at large, though many
are boarded and lodged in gaols kept up by
the poor devil who is comparatively honest.
All that “Hassan” says is correct and by no
means visionary. “A burglar in the Terri-
tory is worth two babies in the city.
(Proverbs by “Nil.”)-. Also, why not have
a “Black Brigade” in the compulsory forces?
In fact, two! A junior and a senior. Let
the small boys who use such adjectives as
“ ” and “ ” and “ ” and
and throw road metal at their area officers,
and teach my 15-year-old son all the filth ot
the slums, be in the junior 8.8., and put
the “Verandah Push” and the “Flying
Angels,” etc., info the senior ditto. Let
them drill all the time until they can show
that they are fit to mix with moderately re-
spectable members of the community. As it
is, the latter have to do all the work, and
may be excused for wondering why.
* * * *
It is one of the mysterious circumstances
of life that the man or woman who loudly
protests against anybody being “pauperised”
is nearly always first in the rush for the
benefaction, or dole, or whatever it may be
called. Thus the catmittee of Melbourne
Women’s Hospital lately refused to sign
a patient’s claim for the maternity allow-
ance, unless she consented to let them draw
the money and keep £3 for confinement ex-
penses. Of course that charming scheme
fell through with a loud splash, the Commis-
sioner having quietly remarked that there
were other ways of proving a birth than by
the doctors’ or nurses’ signed statements.
The Anglican portion of South Aus. is
planning to divide itself into two bishoprics.
No other mainland State has fewer than
three bishops, and N.S.W. has six. A re-
markable feature of this S.A. case, though,
is that the bishop is not likely to be im-
ported from England. Bishop Wilson, the
cricketer, who has seen long service in the
Islands, is already a suburban-Adelaide
vicar, and public opinion looks no further
for the new man. And the money is not to
be begged for in England, either. At a big
meeting in Adelaide Town Hall, all the
speakers insisted that the £ll,OOO immedi-
ately necessary could and must be raised
locally within six months.
The price of vegetables just
now moves the Sydney house-
wife sto weep bitterly into the
sink and ask Providence why
she wasn’t born into the tiara
class instead of the pot-and-
pan division. The staunch Yellow
Australian says triumphantly
that the shortage of greenstuff is
the direct result of the loathly
policy of preventing the ram-
shackle Mongolian vegetable-pro-
fessor from importing cabbage
undergraduates to study and
carry on the learned lob. The
angry White Australian who
has reared- five tomatoes and a
lettuce in liis spare time pas-
sionately denies that his coun-
trymen are unfit to hoe beans,
and proudly quotes his own,
amateur achievements in sup-
port of his argument. But, un-
fortunately, the White Aus-
tralian agriculturist avoids the-
profitable job of catering for
the kitchen door, preferring to
go out to Back o’ Sunset and
grow wheat, which Mr. John-
son’s trains may or mav not be
able to carry to the one live-
port on the N.S.W. coastline..
White men' everywhere in Aus-
tralia willingly perform much
humbler and less pleasant jobs:
than vegetable tending; but
those jobs have the advantage
of never having been distinct-
ively Chow jobs. The pigtail is
a dreadful blight.
“The Heretic”: Two members of Mel-
bourne’s Board of Health are protesting
loudly against the appointment of a Salv-
army representative to the Coburg Cemetery
Trust, their grievance being grounded on the
fact that the other trustees of the cemetery
object to the red-coated stranger because “the
‘Army’ has no status as a religious body.” 1
Apart from the question whether the late
Booth’s noisy organisation has a religious
status, this protest raises the anyizing plea
that all places for the burial of dead bodies:
must necessarily be controlled by religious
bodies. Why? Cannot an honest Melbourne
unbeliever remain untouched by the cant of
orthodox religion after he is dead? Surely
a cemetery conducted by Sinners for Sinners
would fill a want?
UNPRESSED.
'•'■Notice Miss De Eastuns skirt at the party
last night ?”
“Yes, terribly baggy at the knees, wasn't it? "
THE UNPARALLELED CADET.
[Fou The Bulletin.]
Mr. Fisher, at a Cadet Parade, in Melbourne, said:
“The boys are the equal of any troops in the
world.”
He told me that wherever great guns shoot,
And jagged bayonet-steel grows bloody red,
It might be I had peers, but not a coot
Could beat me by a head.
It may be, as he says, that I am fit
To take the. field, and sweat, and fight and de.
Well, if he’s ready with the grub and kit,
I can but take and try.
I’m but a boy—a boy that’s bucking up,
And learning slowly that ’twas votes and quids
That made the manhood pass along the cup
Of glory to us kids.
I’ve got to serve. All right! But wait a mo’.
I want no fulsome Fisher fudge, nor yet
No bright, bold manhood cracking up the show
From which it did a get.
.7. JINGLE.
N.S.W.
OF COURSE.
First Soubrette : “Get anythin* for your
birthday ? ”
The Other : “Nothing to speak of.”
First Soubrette: “How lovely! Silk , of
course .”
Young George Veitcb, who
persuaded a damsel to join
him in a lysol suicide at,
Waverley (Sydney), the
other day, stated in his dy-
ing deposition that he and
the girl left her home to go
to church, but went for a
walk instead. Finally they
went into a park and knelt
down and prayed. This
teaches us that the watchful
Wowsers who groan when
they see a young couple
kneeling on the grass in a
park after nightfall are pos-
sibly forming wrong conclu-
sions.
* *
The representatives of 23
charitable institutions met
in Melbourne last week and
considered the idle husband.
The fellow who slips away
and forgets to write or send
any money was denounced;
but the most lurid adjectives
were saved up for the des-
picable insect who stays at
home with his family, and.
excepting for a casual day’s
work, does nothing to sup-
port them. A Legislative
Councillor told the meeting
that in 1911 Victoria sup-
ported 1264 children, owing
to the worthlessness of their
fathers. Then there were 57
wife-deserters who had left
124 children to be supported
by whosoever felt inclined to
do it, and 34 blackguards
who had got into gaol so
that someone else might
labor to keep their families.
After much talk, the'meet-
ing decided to solve the whole
problem by calling on .T.
Weary and telling him that
these men must be made to
work or shot into gaol. It
cost the State £12,000 to keep other
people’s children last year, and Vic-
toria was tired of it; so the vagrancy
laws must be made more stringent.
It was a cheerful meeting of well-meaning
tabbies. Unfortunately they knew little of
the size of the problem they were settling off-
handedly. The best way to make a man in-
capable of work is to put him persistently
into gaols as they, are now mismanaged. The
States all practically keep their prisoners
out of competition with the outside workers ;
wherefore to gaol a man is to condemn
him to idleness, which, if continued long
enough, will make him absolutely' worthless.
No really healthy man will loaf while he has
hungry children; wherefore What he needs is
scientific building up on a labor farm. The
plan of punishing men for refusing to work
usefully by nutting them in gaols where there
is no useful work for them to do is plain
idiocy.
There is no ocean racing nowadays. But
there are “speed tests,” and if two fast boats
happen to hit on the same trip to make
“tests,” it is looked upon as a curious and
rather happy coincidence. There is great
jubilation on the ship that foams into port
first, and maybe a little money changes
hands. But. understand, there is no rac-
ing ! The Adelaide Co.’s Warilda fled into
Sydney Harbor the other Monday morning,
having cut out the 575 miles from Melbourne
in 35 hours 50 minutes—a trifle less than the
36 hours odd put up by the same co.’s Gran-
tala. About 37 minutes after the Warilda
came the speedy A.U.S.N. boat Levuka.
which (quite accidentally, of course) had slid
out of the Yarra about five minutes ahead of
the winner—that is to say, the first into
port. By mere chance, they had struck on
the same trip and day to have a little speed-
trial. If anything had gone wrong with
either of them on the way up, and an inquiry
had been ordered, any blunt reference to
“racing” would, of course, have been received
with righteous indignation.
George Lambert has gone one better than
all antipodean competitors with the sale of
“The Man with the Mask” to a titled Rus-
sian for 1000 guineas. This is the altitude
record so far as Australian painters are con-
cerned. The picture is a sort of allegory
representing bold, bad man putting his best
face foremost, in the presence of beautiful
woman. Rather a trite idea, but said to be
magnificently treated. The two nudes are
audaciously handled, the drawing is master-
ful, and the picture, as compared with the
high-priced work of some of Lambert s
British contemporaries, is not dear from the
point of view of a wealthy Russian noble or
an American potato king.


THE WEEK IN MELBOURNE.
mei.boubnk
an AMAZING CASK.
BLIND MAN’S~ SIGHT RESTORED.
One of the male patients at the
Austin Hospital, Heidelberg, who was
admitted to the institution on Octo-
ber 4. 1887, afflicted with blindness*
deafness, and partial paralysis, and
who remained in that condition up
to 10 days ago, has completely re-
covered his sight.
The Rev. P. C. Spurr dealt with the
religious problem of Westralia.
One great rival of their churches was
the luxuriousness of the western cli-
mate. and the pull of the Swan River,
which, like the beautiful harbor of Syd-
ney, was a counter attraction on the
Sabbath Day, and kept many people out
of their meetings.
— * AKS | '
~stere »$ tjo yJ
fro»r> I>l|t)dnesy
;M<SS
is W *
i<4e»> °lf /J. I
&, oire&,+~ "S. /
hunger stViK& /
Of- British S w ft ra, §7
\e.4tes, /
'\owY-w)*s H'SjJ’*'
|\ ((A)»le) I •
v/ov/seK:— is jAK'fVom * m*n WI7O idles
Ill’s'time. on'Hie be&.chon ttje
A US^l' ^' - " This »S Heaven enough for me. *
iTk-
y ' "-s ~' sr^s
v/M I |]|\ tWer SlriKc^s: — \
11 Tore. .
ONE DOWN
T'other
coke, up
H UCH6.S HAS
JoKeooK:— Up-
At the Camberwell Court, John
Adams, 75, was charged with having
tpwellery to the value of £B,
property of Alfred McCracken. Adams/
said that he had been forced to commit
the crime by poverty. He was an old.
1 man and was suffering from indigestion
and other complaints. He admitted
previous convictions. Adams was sen-
tenced to 12 months’ imprisonment on
X Set charge, and a similar sentence
U was Imposed on a second charge of hav-
| ing housebreaking implements in his
| possession.
111 K
1 1 Ft
ffop°S«d
le’tiliotj
/ [iffle &oy 0
mm yo»r n*jesty jk
|>MIW view
ire -foV yowtr Eyic+e.<i
Viceroy. \
wdifjejtiori
G rc
gillie
oWice. af e*|>etrse
oy Vs «5«2m
I Sv>a^oir'ioeT *'*>»!'
/ itjlfrs w,orn ’ l, s»V
/ Jo"W*>,? . , RjM
■ pacHe** {S§m
|y>v S'f'UmtnoicK it, vforKiejo^
we|, W" *>w Cokv>s .^Sgl
. S poo+leV SOe»)«lb»*>'
/ o*'Ht>lc .*'


"U'lMMilllHfN'm
5555?
bSS
k,
MMq
\mm\y
mummiuiuiw
The Household Disinfectant-
Carbolacene
It
SPARKLETS
Cleanses and disinfects
in one act.
For Washing Horses and all Ani-
mals. Destroys Vermin.
A wonderful healer of euts and
sores and skin eruptions.
In the bath and for washipg the
hair.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging earpets, ete. Removes
dirt, prevents disease.
In the siek room. Instantly des-
troys all germs.
USED BY ALL HOSPITALS
HOT WEATHER WISDOM.
If you arc ever thirsty in the hot weather—
if a cool, sparkling drink appeals to. you—re-
member that with a Sparklet Syphon you can
make delicious aerated water IN"
'■STAMM-Yi from your ordinary
water supply. Your home will
be happier all the Summer if
“Sparklets” are kept ready at
hand.
C. SYPHON. 6/6. C. Bulbs, 2/3 doz.
*B. SYPHON. 4 1- B. Bulbs, 1/6 doz.
If not obtainable at your Chemist or Storekeeper, send for trial
pint bottle—l/3 Post Free to any address.
SYDNEY S BRISBANE S MELBOURNE :
Arthur Muston a Sons. Moylan & Chancellor. Mitchell a Bellair
A Soda-Fountain on a ‘lea-fray
RIVER WRECKS.
[For The Bulletin.]
The barge Florence Annie, in tow of the Ex-
celsior, ran into a snag on the Darling. She was
carrying 800 bales of wool, and sank in 15 minutes.
—News item
Uncharted rocks, and sunken snags,
And shifting sands that throng
Where Captain Brown’s Titanic drags
The laden hulks along.
But, after all, what earthly use
Can come of marking plain
Such dangers, when each flood lets loose
As many more again!
Could Captain Verne, who points great ships
Across majestic seas,
And makes his run-to-schedule trips,
Do better deeds than these?
Could he, with all his golden braid
And books of ocean lore,
Steam down the Darling unafraid,
And never bump the shore?
When deep the robe of darkness falls
fl o wrap the route in gloom;
When those twin eye-deceiving walls
Before the bowsprit loom;
At such a time would Captain Verne,
With all his lace and frills,
Avert a wreck—or let the dern
Bourke brokers pay the bills!
For know ye this: the river’s full
Of old seafarers’ bones,
Of barges laden low with wool
Consigned to —-Davy Jones !
Of lurking deaths no eye can see,
Nor all men’s wisdom guess;
Of angles sharper than a V,
And bends just like an S.
Yes, I have sailed through Sheol’s gates,
And seen where Burke and Wills
Pumped into Myall and his mates
Progression’s bitter pills.
And when I read of river wrecks,
And cargoes going down,
Full well I know the things that vex
The soul of Captain Brown.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.
“Nulla” : Old Robert McParritch had re-
turned to his flocks and herds after a visit to the
land where the whisky’s good, if nbthing else is.
“And what thought ye o’ the Pass o’ Glencoe?”
speered a neighbor. “The Pass o’ Glencoe!” ex-
claimed McParritch. “Man, Ah’ll tell ye. In ma
opeenion, the Pass o’ Glencoe wouldna feed a rabbit
to the acre.”
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : Under the influence of whites
our black brothers ..in the Lake Condah (Vic.) dis-
trict have lost their old hunting arts and crafts.
In former years I have watched them spear eels with
great dexterity in the reed beds. Now they get
hundreds in a much simpler manner. When the local
creeks flood over the clear, grassy banks, they back
up calm water, chains wide, to the depth of a foot
or so. Then armies of eels, old, young, large, small,
male and otherwise, come out into these shallow
waters by night to feed. Binghi thereupon procures
a lantern, a flour bag and a curved piece of hoop-
iron about 4ft. long. Armed with these he wades
through the shallows. Whether the eels are attracted
by the light, or are so numerous as to be unable
to escape, I know not. Anyhow, the abo. soon gets
more than he can hump, by simply wielding his hoop-
iron through the night air and bashing it into every
slimy streak within striking distance. The dark
shapes show up well against the light-green bottom,
and the water is not deep enough to lessen the force
of the blow. A new chum white “pfellar” won’t get
too heavy a bag for a start, for the average person
doesn’t take kindly to cold eels slithering round his
legs in the dark, and they are apt to affect his aim
more even than sodawater. Binghi has a tradition
that the eel shoals never start to wriggle up the
flooded flats until the blackwood trees flower, and so
he never attempts to wave his fisherman’s hoop-iron
until the yellow blooms bud forth.
* * * *
“J. B. Cow” : I give Kell Gilbert three
cheers, for that he did advocate (B. 24/10/’l2)
humaner and more sensible conduct in the matter
of breaking-in cavalry remounts, and horses in
general? The modern economical horse-master
treats green animals with the utmost gentle-
ness ; but evidently the Federal authorities
know nothing about this, and continue to employ
persons who, masquerading as expert breakers, turn
out “savages” by the score. In Victoria Barracks,
the other day, soldiers were flung broadcast off their
allegedly broken mounts; and if such things are to
be obviated, the first essential is that the remount
department should really know how to handle
horses. But while we are on the subject, why can’t
the Commonwealth Government do the thing pro-
perly, and not only break-in its remounts, but breed
them as well? The Port Darwin line should open
up plenty of suitable country for the purpose; and
if the scheme were run on a proper basis, it would
not only pay its way, but make a profit as well. It
would also serve to keep a lot of our valuable mares
in the country; while, from a military standpoint,
its importance would be beyond reckoning.
“Alan Belcher”: Anent the word “Corio”
(B. 31/10/’l2). If J. F. Hogan informed London
Notes and Queries that it was the original name
of the northern part of the city of Geelong, he was
hardly correct. As a matter of fact, the original
name was Carairo, then Caraio, and eventually, for
economy’s sake (there are lots of Scotch people in
Geelong) the name was contracted to Gorio. In the
Port Phillip Gazette, of March 23, 1839, there is a
sub-leader on Geelong, which refers, inter alia, to
the “Port of Caraio.”
. * * *
“Eddyson” : When a man speaks well of
his mother-in-law two possibilities occur to me; his
wife’s mother is an angel on the earth, or a veri-
table demon. In the House of Representatives the
other night quite a number of members spoke re-
spectfully, even affectionately, of mothers-in-law;
and Dr. Maloney went so far as to say the popular
prejudice against the missus’s maternal progenitor is
due to music-hall jokes. Of course the case of
Wimble, of Panlid, is merely individual, but it is
true in substance, and is advanced to support my
view that mothers-in-law are sometimes defective.
Mrs. Crowle was deficient in tact, and had small
consideration for others, so she went to live with
Mary on John’s property when Mary married John.
She had been in the habit of spanking Mary up till
quite recently; and Mary and John being one, she
thought herself justified in now spanking John.
Twelve months after marriage Wimble was the
woebegone wretch I had ever met. He was con-
verted from all his besetting sins; he loathed beer,
and always got to the windward of a burning cigar-
ette for fear of carrying home incriminating evi-
dence in his clothes. Then Mrs. Crowle married
again, and became Mrs. Rodgers. Wimble had done
all in his power to make Rodgers haste to the wed-
ding, in the mad hope that his mother-in-law would
be once-removed. But Mrs. Rodgers brought Rod-
gers home to live with Wimble, and Rodgers’s two
children came with them. A little later Wimble re-
ceived a slight concussion of the brain, the result of
a blow from a yard broom. His mother-in-law said
at the same time that it was like his impudence to
have children. Weren’t there children enough about
the place, as it was? The next event was the arri-
val of Rodgers’s grown-up daughter from Melbourne.
She took the front room. Rodgers was a short-
tempered man, and Wimble had hoped that he would
beat Mrs. Rodgers. But he didn’t —he beat Wimble.
Wimble objected, and his mother-in-law told him he
knew what he could do —if he didn’t like the place
he could clear out. Wimble cleared out; driven
desperate, he eloped with Rodgers’s grown-up
daughter, and went into the West. Two years later
Mrs. Wimble died. Then Wimble married Rodgers’s
grown-up daughter, and they lived happily in three
States for a number of years. Eventually they
settled near Allandale (Vic.), and John was fairly
prosperous and very content, till one bright March
morning, when a gaunt red woman carrying a brolly
like a collapsed circus tent arrived on the front
mat. It was Mrs. Rodgers, now a widow again;
she had come home to live with her son-in-law, on
her late husband’s side. They say Wimble’s subse-
quent flight down the Ajax shaft was purely an
acoident. I don’t know.
“Tarpot”: For the past two months I
have occupied the same seat on a hospital verandah,
and as my only occupation is killing flies and watch-
ing ants remove the corpses, I have observed a few
habits of the ants that my fellow-naturalist, Mark
NOT IN A HURRY.
Immigrant : “ Can you give me—ah—employ-
ment, Mister?”
Cockie : “ I'm hill-handed jist now.”
Immigrant : ‘ l Oh, Tm in no hurry — l'll wail
till you put the log down.”
Landscape Artist; I say, did you happen lo see a dog about here? I've lost one.”
Inhabitant : “ Wot sorter dorg ?”
L.A. : “ What sort! Oh, an awfully well-colored dog—a raw sienna color, you know , with
a touch of orange in the high-lights, and burnt umber in the shadows.”'
bark to the roots in the ground. Some months after
the accident I chopped the tree down (it was as
tough as an old politician’s hide), took it into the
yard close handy, and sawed it into foot lengths.
Later on I tried to split the junks, but had a better
chance of splitting the axe. As a last resource I
shoved some of it in the fire, but it would not burn.
When I left the place recently, pieces of the tree
were still in existence. White ants were ravenous,
but turned that fodder down. I don’t think light-
ning has similar effects on a dead tree. Plenty are
struck in the N.T., during the wet season, and I’m
going to experiment to, if possible, get confirmation
of the latter idea.
“McNorth” : The ladies and gentlemen who
supply thirsty Thursday Island with liquid refresh-
ment need to be something of ethnologists. South
Sea Islanders, Papuans, aboriginals and their half-
caste progeny are barred from firewater; whereas
Malays, Manilamen, etc., can drink themselves blind
if they like. As T.I. contains representatives of
every nation in the world, with 17 i over, Bung’s
difficulty is obvious. Some time ago one of him
was hauled up to answer a charge of supplying liquor
to a person not entitled, etc. Bung admitted serving
the colored pusson, but reckoned that he (the
C.P.) was half Jap and half Malay, and therefore
entitled, etc. The Law argued that the pusson was
a Chinese-aboriginal cross, and therefore not to be
allowed even so much moisture as would fill one
humble pint pot. The cause of the uproar himself
claimed to be the son of a colored gen’leman of J.
Johnson’s country, and a Jap female. As the bench
reckoned he ought to know as much about his an-
cestry as anybody else, the case against Bung was
dismissed. But the luck is not always with the
refreshment seller, and anybody who thinks of taking
on the job of thirst-quencher in T.I. should go in
for a special study of the comparative villainy of
the races of men, or develop a sense of smell which
will enable him to detect the subtlest essence of
Binghi, even when overlaid by the odors Of Asia,
America and Tophet.
“Yarrum”: I observe that Adrian, ex-
P.M., has been lecturing about child slavery, and
has informed the Lismore (N.S.W.) North Coast
people that there is no such thing in the cow-patches
thereabouts. Now, how does Adrian know? He-
never kept a cow-cocky school. I did. A few years;
ago I had one oh the North Coast. The inspector
(then, but not now, a believer in Cow) came along
to the seminary about 11.30 a.m., just after recess
time. After a bit he said: “This child slavery talk,
I think, is bunkum! Do you ever see any of it
here?” I took him out into the shade of the old'
weathershed, and showed him three children (two-
girls and a boy, ranging in age from eight to 13)
sound asleep on their backs. “Shall I wake themi
and take them into school?” I asked. “No, don’t,
for heaven’s sake!” said he. Those children worked'
such long hours in the slave pen they called home
that Nature dropped them exhausted when they
reached school. After that I let them sleep every
day.
Twain, overlooked. De-
ceased fly will be lying
for half an hour or so
before an ant heaves in
sight three floor-boards
away. Ant gets up on
his hind legs to take ob-
servations, locates the
remains, and makes a
bee-line for them. Ar-
riving at the first crack
in the floor, he wanders
up and down looking for
a suitable crossing;
crosses, and discovers
that he has lost the
place. Then, instead of
taking observations from
where he is, he carefully
noses his way along his
own footsteps back to
the starting point. Takes
a fresh observation there
and repeats the per-
formance, sometimes four
or five times. Eventually
he arrives at his intend-
ed destination by good
luck. Apparently h e
then wirelesses the news
of his find to Antville,
for in less than a minute
reinforcements arrive. In
order not to get in each
other’s way, each ant
takes hold of the pro-
visions at a different
point, and at the word,
each pulls for all he is
worth. No result. Ten
minutes’ hard work finds
things as they were in
the beginning, so the
ants scientifically divide
the victim into 11 parts
—two wings, six legs,
head, thorax and abdo-
men —and the repast is
carried home in sections,
one ant to each. The
rest of the brigade remains to mop the blood off the
decks.
“E.R.G.”: Someone has questioned the
effect of lightning on timber intended for use as fuel.
Some three years ago a green woolly-butt hereabouts
(Port Darwin) was one afternoon struck by light-
ning, and although not ripped up was killed, the
electric fluid striking the top and passing along the


AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches, and other blemishes. Price, lOld.
and Is. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Are you losing weight? Muscles weak and flabby?
Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract builds up broken-
down tissues and produces sound, healthy flesh —
increases 'your weight.*
Hunyadt.
Janos '
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler,
on arising, before breakfast t fori
FOGGITT, JOKES
Sham pate
!• a rteltehtful preparation of
jenulno Ham of hugheet Quality.
ppctmng landwichet.
With bread
I butter for lunch or tea it II very
-you should order a tin front
NABOB BOOT PASTE,,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS Jt WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney, [i
CONSTIPATION
ME OWN FAIR COW.
[For The Bulletin.]
N.S.W.
Where is me own Fair Cow?
Across the ’ills I ride —
Though I ain’t swore no vow.
(Me wife! Oh, she’s inside!
She stays ’ome year be year—
I don’t know why or ’ow.)
’Er clankin’ bell I ’ear!
Me own, me own Fair Cow !
She is me own Fair Cow!
1 don’t want no gerzelle!
The old ’orse pulls th’ plough
An’ does it pretty well.
But ’ear th’ milk in th’ can
Failin’ like sov’rins ! Now
Wouldn’t that get a man?....
Me own, me own Fair Cow!
INCURABLE DAIRY FARMER.
“Sapphire”: “Yarrum” (B. 7/11/T2)
libels a decent female when he says the curlew
leaves her eggs for the sun to hatch. She doesn’t
build a nest, but she does hatch her eggs out, or at
any rate, gives the sun a hand with his job. The
wonderful protective covering of the eggs is such
that if the eye wanders off them they take a lot of
finding again. Perhaps “Yarrum” looked away at a
passing Jap invasion or Beef Trust or something,
and when he looked back again couldn’t see the
eggs, and concluded that the sun had hatched them
out, and that the wind had blown the shells away.
An extract from the German Crown
Prince’s “Hunting Day Book,” wherein the Royal
sportsman tells of his dare-devil feats in India,
Ceylon and elsewhere:—
We saw the colossal brute (an elephant) leaning
on one side, grey and massive, with his head turned
towards us, fast asleep.... I aimed at the point
above the trunk, and I must admit that I fingered
the trigger with considerable timidity. MJhat hap-
pened then I cannot possibly describe. The report
of the shot was mixed up with a kind of earth-and-
sea-quake, and a fearsome trumpeting from the
suddenly-awakened old gentleman. He fairly sprang
into the air. I could see the place where I had hit
him quite well —-just a little too high. The brute
stood there amazed and furious. Then the wounded
giant crashed away.
Why the organisers of the expedition didn’t arrange
for the somnolent animal to be dynamited is some-
thing of a mystery.
* * * *
“Hee Kee” : If the weights haven’t been
declared in connection with the Australian Place
Names argument, I desire to enter the following in
etymological defiance of “H. Horsecollar” and others:
Moorooelloojuggoo, Katchallanoondah, Dotharalawoo-
ralpooka, Chabjuwardoo, Bruboodjoo. All of these
places are in the vicinity of Point Cloates (W.A.),
some 300 miles north of Perth. The pronunciation
of Dotharalawooralpooka is being forwarded by boat,
but is not intended for publication. Judging from
the sound of it, it appears to be a cross between a
fatal disease and a Liberal reference to Speaker
Willi®
A COMPOSER OF SHORT STORIES.
“J. B. Cow” : Demme alone till I have a
word with “Speargrass” (B. Sl/10/’ll), who says
that the Australian bush- and plains-men are “not
giving the immigrant a show.” Well, now, if a
little harmless humor is preventing the Petticoat-lane
bushwhacker from getting a show, what becomes of
his much-boomed British bulidorg pluck and ten-
acity? As for the reference to the convicts who were
a characteristic of early Australia, I reckon a large
proportion—the hundreds who were transported for
such alleged offences as will make so-called British
justice odorous with a great odor until the key of the
Bottomless Pit is oiled for the Last Job —a very fair
proportion, anyhow, comprised a more intelligent
type than the weeds from the big factory towns we
are getting now. I just wish tp remark, further, that
there isn’t any good getting heated over this matter.
If the immigrant can’t understand a jest I’m sorry
for him. I thought there was at least one thing he
would be sure to understand.
“Snell”: They are hustling a new electric
tram line past our corner in St. Kilda (Melbourne),
tearing up the macadam with steam ploughs, and
rushing the job in a manner that should induce
capital to reconsider its decision and remain a few
days longer. The other afternoon a perky young
man was leaning on things, watching the gang. Pre-
sently he began to make noises. “Come along,
hurry up there, you blokes,” he said. “Get a move
on!” O-ne perspiring workman held a pick in mid-
air long enough to inquire: “Whathellsitgotterdo-
withyou?” “Do with me?” snorted the onlooker.
“Why, dammit, I’m, waitin’ for the tram, l”
HERS ?
Buli.eroo Bob (pointing to tattoo mark) : “ You brand ’em that pkeliet ? ”
“Pete” : Apropos of “N. or M.’s” remarks
anent Maori lands (B. 24/10/’l2), there were land-
sharks in Maoriland even in the pre-pakeha days.
Up Kaikohe (North Auckland) way, lands that
should, by rights, belong to the
Ngapuhis are now the property of
the Rarawa tribe. It came about
in this wise. The Rarawas, being
owners of the West Coast country,
which was inferior land, began to
cast envious glances at the Kaikohe
lands, upon which their neighbors,
the Ngapuhi, contentedly squatted.
Then to the Rarawa mind there oc-
curred the undoubted fact that their
tribe was the stronger of the two.
But let there be no battle! No!
The lands must be acquired in a
lawful manner. And this was the
method. From time to time they
would make a huge kite about 10ft
across. The tribal tohunga would
bless it, and the mana of the tribe
would be upon it. Then, when the
westerly wind blew in from the
sea, a dozen or so doughty warriors
would go forth and fly the kite.
When it was high up in the air the
string would be cut, and the kite
would sail away to descend upon
the Ngapuhi lands. Then the Rara-
was in a body (armed in ease of
argument) would hie them over to
Kaikohe, and demand the land
whereon the kite rested. The Nga-
puhi, protest as they would, knew
they had only two courses —one, to
give up the land; the other, to
have it taken from them with great
slaughter. So they chose the first,
and retired cursing. More recently
the same thing was done in the
Mercury Bay district* and the
Native Land Court was called upon to decide the
case. Strangely enough, the sympathies of the Court
were entirely with the fliers of the kite.
“Wanderlust”: The horse season is re-
sponsible for a lot in Australia. Was in a railway
refreshment-room the other day, having a snack and
watching a hungry man crouched over his plate—
knife, fork, arms and legs moving in perfect unison.
“Gorstruth,” says, my neighbor, “who’s- the bloke
Tod Sloaning his chop?”
* * ¥■ *
“Spot”: The boss got him off one of the
boats, and after he had been on the run a few days,
Chummy was told to take a. small mob of rams to
the Coffin Rock paddock. “And don’t let ’em box,”
said the boss. “Have dinner in the corner of the
Windmill paddock, and be very careful not to let
them box.” Chummy. got ..the ..rams in the corner all
right, and started on his tucker. Presently two rams
backed off to fight. Bang! they came together, and
Chummy rushed between them. Bang! they came
again, and the immigrant got the two barrels. When
he recovered he scrambled on to his horse and steamed
for the homestead. “Sir,” he gasped when he
reached the boss, “I can’t stop ’em. They’re boxing
all over the place, sir!”
For some considerable time past automatic elec-
trical time recording mechanism set in motion and
stopped by the car crossing the starting and finish-
ing line respectively has been utilised at Brook-
lands (England) with great success in motor speed
contests. At Nice experiments with horse races in-
clude a finishing tape the breaking of which releases
the shutter of a camera, thus photographically record-
ing the finish. On and after 1/12/’l2 Phillips
Ormonde & Co.’s address will be 17 Queen Street,
Melbourne. *
“T.D.”: How is this for the long-distance
water-carting record of Australia? In 1905, a Public
Works party, in charge of J. V. Tolerton, was con-
structing a stock route to Eucla, on the Bight, par-
allel with the Transcontinental railway survey. To
obtain water the party bored 400 ft., and from August
to November carted the fluid (which was fairly pal-
atable when broken down with Scotch dew) varying
distances up to 92 miles. And that in an atmosphere
which on one occasion was frying the scenery-at 123°
in the shade. Two waggons, each drawn by 15
camels, were the means of transport, and each team
carried 1000 gallons per trip.
“K.C.”: This is from the same paper
(Melbourne' Age) that tells the strange stories about
the gentle habits of the Deakook bird: —
A young man while riding through the timber
country' at Wi llung (Vic.) during a recent storm, had
a remarkable escape from death in peculiar circum-
stances. A large tree directly in front of him was
struck by lightning and split in halves. The horse
he was riding, becoming terrified, started to plunge,
and jumped through the gap between the halves of
the tree. At that moment the halves came together
with a snap like a rabbit trap, and crushed off a
length of the horse’s tail, which can still be seen
protruding from the tree. The young man received a
severe shaking, but otherwise came through the
ordeal safely.
Nothing need be added except that anybody who
doubts this story or narrative is at perfect liberty to
go and check the hairs.
BEYOND THE NINETY MILE.
[For The Bulletin.]
He was only a weed of a dandy,:
I had known in the old school days;
While I stiffened my thews in the Malice
He had dawdled with books and plays.
But I met him once more, in the City,
All ablaze in a fashion-plate style.
And we went to the Bar, at Mario,
Beyond the Ninety Mile.
As we fished from a skiff for the schnapper,
’Neath the shade of the great Conran Rock,
He was full of the girls he had conquered—
Of the girls of the Melbourne Block;
Of the Tamil girls of Colombo,
And the brown-eyed maids of the Nile.
And I harked by the Bar at Mario,
Beyond the Ninety Mile.
But the Bar is a treacherous liar
That sports with the wind and tide,
And a madman is he who sits dreaming,
In a skiff, by the rocks outside.
It was .! who was mad. While we maundered,
Forgetting the danger the while,
We were snared by the Bar at Mario,
Beyond the Ninety Mile.
Crash! Our skiff went to wrack in the breakers,
And we clung to a scrap of a plank
That would give but to one a frail chance
To be tossed on the Hummock’s bank.
Then he cried (’twas a lie! and I knew it),
“I can swim! Hang on!" Then a-smile!
And he sank by the Bar at Mario.
Beyond the Ninety Mile.
He was only a weed of a dandy,
Whom a week’s bush toil would kill,
Who had sold his soul to the women,
Who would fret if his coat sat ill.
But he gave up his life when I faltered,
' Now he sleeps on the Hummock’s Isle,
Like a Christ, by the Bar at Mario,
Beyond the Ninety Mile.
NATHAN F. SPIELVOGEL.
VICTORIA.
A FIXTURE.
[For The Bulletin.]
Fate took me once to Crackaboo.
’Twixt Hardly Did and Never Will,
The deadest place I ever knew,
Where all things stood extremely still,
Where thistles were too tired to grow,
And winds too weary far to blow.
I met Bob Bowleg, leaning hard
Upon a post, all weather stained
Where once a fence around a yard
Had stood, this single post remained,
And Bob had leaned in rain and sun
While twenty crumbled one by one.
“Why don’t you go,” I asked the man,
“Where there is life and gaiety?”
He slowly turned, my face to scan.
“I cannot go, ’cause why?” said he.
“Up in the cimtry on yer right
I own a first-rate burial site.”
EDDYSON.
VICTORIA.
“Mimosa” : The best white ant evadicator
I know, especially if they are attacking the garden
trees or plants, is arsenic. Get a piece of soft pine
about 4x2x2 inches ; down the centre bore a -Jin.
hole; fill the hole with the poison ; plug tightly with
a bit of wood, and bury a foot deep in your
garden adjacent to the bivouac of the ants. They
prefer pine to cabbage, and the undertaker can call
daily after the wood has been buried a couple of
weeks.
“W.T.W.” : Don’t know any simpler .way
co catch tucker than that adopted by the Westralian
blacks. They move quietly to a big rabbit warren
and look for fresh tracks leading outward. If the
indications are right, the binghis proceed to block
up all the holes, not at the mouth, but as far in as an
arm will reach. Then the party spreads out and
beats the adjacent scrub, yelling like a herd of fried
devils. The bunnies promptly bolt for home, and
being unable to pass the barrier in the hall, cower.
there until black brother hauls them out.
* * * *
“Reimu” : In order to introduce the neces-
sary uniformity and accuracy into Abometric arrange-
ments, I beg to suggest the following decimal scale:—
10 fools make one hog.
10 hogs make one cow.
10 cows make one devil.
10 devils make one herd, mob, or congregation of
devils.
Note.—Aboliars wanting to call a brother-contribu-
tor more than 10 devils are required to pay graduated
Tophet-tax on the surplus.
* * * *
“Pick”: Talking of resident sharks. In
the Wagonga River (N.S.W. South Coast), a 15ft.
Westralian tiger shark, known to the fishing frater-
nity of that inlet as “Billy Moffatt,” for years Cul-
tivated a selection on D. Jones’s property, near
Ringland’s Point, and frequently warned off picnic
and fishing parties from his homestead area. It was
a prolific drag-net ground, but many a yarding of
fish this marine boundary-rider cut out by tearing
through the net meshes. The Wagonga fisher-folk
had an addendum to their daily prayer petitioning
that the beast might be blanked, dashed, or aster-
isked, simultaneously or one at a time. Finally, he
was captured by three amateur hunters —one a blind
man —who had the half-hour of their lives towing
him ashore.
DOCTOR'S ORDERS.
Salesman: “ Shirt, sir! Yetk, sir! Stiff
bosom or nigligd ! ”
Customer: il ok, ndgligi for me! The doctor
says I mustn’t touch anything starchy.”
“The Tramp”: Hear some quaint slang
amongst Australian shearers occasionally. One of
the fraternity confided to me on the board the other
evening that he “had peeled 88, and was dragging
the chain behind Nugget Smith,” hut had “bet him a
bottle of sheep dip” that he’d, “wheel him next
day.” This being translated, means that my friend
had shorn 88 sheep, which was the lowest tally.
The next most meagre barbering was that of the
.aforesaid Nugget, and my friend had wagered him
a bottle of whisky he would disrobe more jumbucks
than Nugget on the following day.


UNPLEASANT, BUT
PREMIER: “Hadn’t we better chuck ’im overboard, mate?”
ASSOCIATE PREMIER: “On no account, Jim; we’d turn turtle then for certain. He’s the only ballast we have!


How
above
shakes
doses,
where.*
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
often we hear persons with colds make the
remark; but Dr Sheldon’s New Discovery
them off promptly and effectively in a few
Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
Splitting headache, no interest, no meal and
family coming home. Take Stearns’ Headache Cure.
Immediate relief, brain clear, everything pleasant.*
BOILERMAKER ATTACKED.
While working in the Government service as
boilermaker writes Mr. J. W. Watkins, Pelichet
Bay, Dunedin (N.Z.), “I developed a liver
bodv Wa N°H- n gripP6d With severe P a »« across the
body. Nothing gave me any relief until a chemist
a Invercargill strongly recommended Chamberlain’s
labiets. The first bottle gave me great relief, and I
now enjoy good health.”*
WHEN
YOU GET
CLEMENTS
TONIC
YOU GET HEALTH TOO.
Nurse Catherine Korting, of
Hrunswick, Victoria, writes :
/' ourteen years ago as a nurse
/ first used Clements Tonic, and I
have prescribed it times out of
number. I have seen people bless
the day they heard of it.”
ALL CHEMISTS S STORES SELL IT.
GAELI C
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY,
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
durability.
PERSONAL
#ITEMJ
AN AWKWARD EPISODE IN PARADISE.
[For The Bulletin.]
In some such terms as the following, Lady South-
ampton felt herself inspired to address the Queen one
day. Do you not think, Ma’am, one of the satis-
factions of the future state will be not only our re-
union with those whom we have loved on earth, but
our opportunities of seeing face to face so many of
the noble figures of the past—of other lands and
times? Bible times, for instance. Abraham will
be there, Ma am. Isaac, too, and Jacob. Think of
what they will be like. And the sweet singer of
Israel. He, too. Yes, Ma’am. King David we shall
% e . e - ~ And. after a moment’s silence, with perfect
dignity and decision, the great Queen made answer:
/ will not meet David." — Argus book notice.
The heavenly mansion of the British Queen
Is filled with all the things she loved in life;
Anti-macassared couches grace the scene,
Samplers and bright-hued oleographs are rife
Texts, hymn-books, tracts and flat Jemima boots
Are everywhere, and beards aglow with grease,
And Highlanders observing “Losh!” and “Hoots!”’
All, all, in fact, is loveliness and peace.
The Royal tenant sits absorbing tea,
Toast, muffins, likewise crumpets, scones and jam
Shrimps, prawns and other products of the sea
And sandwiches of lettuce, egg and ham.
The front door bell is hardly ever still;
Callers drop in, and eat, and drink, and foam
At Labor’s latest doings, with a will.
In brief, it is Victoria’s Day At Home.
The mighty line of motors, landaus, cabs
And broughams in the porphyry street outside
Starts suddenly, as though by stabs.
A hundred angel-coachmen’s eyes grow wide
W hat time an ancient chariot looms in sight
(Regardless of the laws ’gainst frantic haste)
And vomits forth a night-gowned Israelite
H ith whiskers, and a cord around his waist.
With all the nerve of the Extremely Bad
The old-time bigamist, Uriah’s foe
(For he, of course, it is), proceeds with glad
And eager steps towards the portal. Lo '
He rings the bell and fishes out a card.
A footman bends before the Man of Sin,
And lying, footmanlike, both well and hard’,
Says: “Sorry, sir, the missus isn’t in.”
What profits it that I should here dilate
Upon the anguish of the stricken Yid!
Why harp on the intolerable fate
Of the Celestial Sovereign who Did?
One priceless lesson this rebuke to vice
Imparts in manner dignified and fine.
It is as follows: E’en in Paradise
The Good and Great still draw a social line.
x.s.w.
10-2-4.
, The senior pensioner under the N.S W
Civ!! Service Act of 18S4 is William Crane!
who left off being an S.M. over 27 years ago.
t hough n ow 85 years of age, he is still going
■-(rung on £oio per annum.
EDITOR WARD, OF SYDNEY “DAILY
TELEGRAPH,
,^ r ,^ r p e T em , i . nen t me n ,wli° read with the
late Ch'ef Justice Frederick Darley when at
Sw? ar E \? llcher ’ K -°- is th e sole sur-
RE' O’Connor heiS Were Jack Want and
Svdntv a M NeUtr n Bay (Sydney) last week
*/“ n^ y Moore Green, architect, aged 67
Mr. Green was a Sydney native, and so was
his father. He was grandson of Jonathan
Green, a master cooper and nailer of O’Con-
nell-street in the ’3o’s and before, and a
“'.“Phew and godson of Mr. W. H. Moore,
ot lhe Golden Corner” (now Waters’),
who was acting-Attorney-General in 1526.
±his Mr. Moore was one of two attorneys
sent out free by the British Government, the
of their class—one as Crown Solicitor,
the other as Clerk of the Peace.
The Sydney Bar lost an old identity on
Saturday morning in Walton Loekyer Mere-
wether, who died at Double Bay, aged 64
years. He was son of sergeant-at-law Mere-
wether, and was educated at Eton and
Oxford. After being called to the Bar, he
came to Sydney and took up work on the
N.W. circuit. In 18S2 he was apnointed
Grown Prosecutor, and for a number of
years was a conscientious worker in that
job. His wife was a daughter of a one-time
popular solicitor and Minister of the Crown,
Joseph Leary. There are two children, a son
and daughter—the former a cotton-planter
in Egypt.
Died, at Richmond (Vic.), on November
id, lhomas William Sherrin, aged 55, a
pioneer maker of athletic goods in Australia.
Apprenticed to saddlery and devoted to
sport, he early attempted the making of a
cucket ball, and, after many futile efforts
succeeded with the aid of a patent clamp of his
own design. He then started a small sports
business in Collingwood. Boxing gloves,
footballs, punching balls, etc., followed, and
within 10 years the name “Sherrin” became
favorably known to snorting men throughout
Australia. One of the founders of the Col-
hngwood football and cricket clubs, the
little ballmaker” was a member of cornmit-
tili last season, when ill-health drove him
out.
THE ABUSE OF THE WHITE FLAG.
The Australian Atkins (a good unionist) ;
“Data lot of scabs, them Japs!'' 1
W. G. Sprigg quaintest of antiques, has
resigned his billet of auditor to the Mel-
bourne City Council. He had held it for
45 years, in all sorts of weather. The
oldest councillors feel that something has
gone, out of their lives: Mr. Sprigg had been
them m toucll witll tlleir distant
William Owen, one time senior Puisne
Judge °t N. S. Wales, died last week, aged
(b. He was one of those capable, upright
and weH-reguiated folks who proceed
P i aC^ dly .. .^ e doing the right thing
all the time. Prizeman of Trinity College,
.Dublin, successful junior at the N. S. Wales
Par, successful Q.C., and eminently success-
ful Equity Judge, he scored all along life’s
line. He was appointed a Common Law
Judge m 1896, and had a knighthood in-
flicted on him 10 years later. He was the
Commissioner who dealt with the N. S
Wales Lands scandals, and by the time he
had finished his inquiry and presented his
report, they were the most completely un-
clothed collection of scandals on record
He was in England, or thereabouts, when
James Martin died, and the Government
cabled him an offer of the vacant Chief
Justiceship, but he had left before the
message reached London.
“Bloggs” sends his affidavit with this:—
Some peculiarities of the Rev. Dr. Keenan, chap-
lain of the N. S. Wales Freemasons, and one of the
most affluent and picturesque figures in the com-
munity, were that he was neither a doctor nor a
*I e . ab andoned the Church of Rome and
left the theological college where he was studying be-
fore becoming so much as a deacon. In later years
he made advances with a view to being recon-
ciled to the church m which he was born. However
he wanted to name his own terms, and they didn’t
suit the authorities. He directed that he should be
buried in the R.G. portion of the Windsor cemetery
and m accordance with the rites of the ancient
faith; also, he left £lOO to the Passionists, to be
tbe"™? maSS6 j l or his , souL The Passionists took
P‘ e f !V OU %. * nd h fve doubtless started the masses,
but the Windsor clerics wouldn’t look at the burial
P* 10 " He Ilev , er %ured in politics, yet lie
spent some years and a quantity of good red gold
SF* *“ ge L int ? th ? N - S- Wales Legislative C?un
cii. When the hopelessness of the attempt became
T, of hl ? ?. d J iser / suggested that he should
adopt the style and title of an M.L.C., and let it go
at that. And for a time Keenan seems to have
seriously considered the proposal. He was a kindly
and charitable soul, and one of the best-looking men
of his age m the city. 8
THE FOND MOTHER.
na JJL ■*? a ™ az inS' that the leader of a great historic
party m the House of Commons should attempt to
.lustny such hooligan tactics as were adopted by his
followers when they prevented the members of the
Government from carrying on the business of the
AII|Y Telegraph, on someone else’s brawl-
Press : Well, / never! Thank Haven,
there's none can say as ’ow my litt.e aear
am t been brought up properly I 1
Professor Berry and L. W. G. Buchner,
the Victorian Government Research Scholar,
oQ V ?r hieasured the cubic brain-capacity of
do Melbourne criminals hanged for murder.
A collation of the results showed Deeming
to be in the second-lowest place. Ned Ivellv
is sixth on the list.
The shooting of Span-
ish Premier Canalejas
has recalled the four-
year-old execution of
Francisco Ferrer, which
Canalejas’s death is sup-
posed to avenge. Mel-
bourne Argus was nearly
correct in saying that
herrer was at one time
engaged on the hills of
Bendigo. The truth is
that his brother had a
big farm there, and
taught the residents that
there was more money in
tomatoes than in gold.
Since that time hundreds
of them have made for-
tunes out of tomatoes.
*___ ~ t _ The anarchist’s daugh-
£Z S J\ Ved -r£ their uncle ’ and Francisco
himself paid them one visit.
Schafer, a S. Aus. Methodist parson, with
nearly as much fight in him as a bull-ant,
has “taken on” Premier Peake now. That
opportunist put on a halo the other day, and
accused the local Labor people of being
Materialists and Sabbath-breakers. Schafer
11 p S ?n e and th e up-turned eyes
°wi? P l emi ® r v and , then asked their owner
whether _he didn t think himself a hypocrite
for playing cards for money as soon as he
ney? a to tuke a railway j’our-
McMillan, who made a seat for Willie
Kelly in the Reps, and retired to nurse the
ancient McArthur business, which had met
with a very nasty accident while McMillan
d ”ving, is coming back to politics. The
way ’ being so tired
ot Wade. The tremendously important little
man under the big hat has had plenty of
ups-and-downs First, he was McLinen.
I hen he was, figuratively. McMillions. Then
he boomed, and was Mcßillions. After that,
k W^ a Ar^rn^ ar^^ n^# Now he is somewhere
about McTuppence.
Re the P isher Cabinet’s decision to commis-
sion artists to supply portraits of eminent
Federalists. Two deserving names, at least
have been omitted from the list, to date,’
namely John Dunmore Lang and Charles
Gavan Duffy. Lang drew up a scheme of
a hat j IoS ?l y resem bled the one
ultimately adopted. Duffy, in the first Vic-
tonan Parliament (1856), moved and carried
a motion for a select committee to inquire
into the desirability of federating. He was
chairman of the committee, and furnished it
with a comprehensive and lucid pro-Union
report. Also, by the way, there are some
journalists who did more for Federation
than a whole fowlhouse full of politicians
For example, there is Henry Gullett who'
editing the S. M. Herald atfte time (C r-
now being away on one of his last long holi-
toThl’T p »L up A a , r T lne fi ? hl iu oppSdtS.
on thlt office ““ " ’ had a bl « l’" 11
GERALD STRICELAND,
State Governor of lE. A.,
shortly to replace Chelmsford
in N.S. IV.
From the Oldest
j Inhabitant: —
j Apropos the inter-
esting J. P. Fawk-
ne r “footnote o f
history” (B .
21/11/T2), the ab-
original Durrinart is
no doubt identical
with Derrimutt,
whom Fawkner often
mentioned in his
writings. I have
among my papers
an ancient photo-
graph, copied from
the original in the
possession of Mr.
Fred Hailes, of Mel-
bourne, son of Mr
G. B. Hailes, one of
Fawkner’s executors,
of the dead Derri-
mutt as he lay i n
the morgue at the
Benevolent Asylum.
The memo, on the
back of the card is
in Fawkner’s hand-
writing: “The last
of the chiefs of the
Boonoorong tribe.
Derrimutt; died
26th April, 1864.
II e preserved the
lives of the whole
of the first colonists,
when about to be massacred by the country tribes •
300 were assembled together at Melbourne," 1835
John P. Fawkner.”
Mr. R. W. W. Sitwell, who for 14 days in
1557 was Solicitor-General in the first Min-
istry under responsible government in Vic-
toria, has just died in England, aged 89
years. He was a Derby man, educated at
Oxford and called to the Bar in 1849. He
came to Victoria in 1853, but returned to
England after 10 years or so.
Mary Gilmore, whp writes graceful verse
and attends to the woman’s section of Syd-
ney Worker, has had to put the pen aside for
some months on the demand of eyes that
must be rested. Her place at the Worker
table has been taken by Mrs. Pitt (Marie
E. J.) who also writes verse, and has been
driving a strenuous pen for years—during
much of the. time to support a long-sick hus-
band, who died a few months back.
“B. de Burke” on some English gentle-
men :
“The Office Duke” (B. 14/11/’l2) treats the Ferrars
family, which seems doomed to connection with Aus-
tralia, with scant courtesy. The third earl, whom
he mentions as having been hanged at Tyburn in
1760 was a really picturesque gentleman. He made
a hobby of shooting at his relatives and his servants,
but the firearms of his day were defective. Be-
sides, he wasn’t always sober. Captain Shirley, his
brother, was staying with him once, and the two
quarrelled. The earl ordered a servant to load a
brace of pistols, so that he might shoot both the cap-
tain and his wife. The servant declined, and Loril
Ferrars snapped a pistol at the man. It missed fire,
lhe earl was rude enough to murder his steward,
Johnson, because he suspected him of a conspiracy
with the trustees
of Lady Ferrar.
Me lady had ob-
tained an Act o f
Separation from
Parliament, and
under its terms
drew certain rents
from the estate.
Johnson went to
interview the earl
t o show him the
accounts, and was
promptly shot be-
cause he would not
confess to the con-
spiracy. The earl
was hanged in the
presence of an en-
ormous crowd.
Special of
admission for the
equivalent o f t h e
dress-circle were
issued by the great
Chamberlain, Lord
Ancaster. He died
in the aroma o t'
sanctity and a yel-
low silk jacket.
The Ferrar family
were again in
trouble in 1842,
when the earl was
sued for breach of
promise by a girl
named Mary Smith.
She alleged that he
promised, while he
was only Lord
Tamwo r t h, to
marry her when he
succeeded to the
title. A great num-
ber of affectionate
letters, purporting
to be from the earl
to the girl were
read in court; but
it was easily shown
that they were for-
Series. Miss
Smith’s counsel
then withdrew
from the case, and
a non-suit was en-
tered. In fact, the
family, after the
unwise outburst of
the third earl,
seems to have con-
cluded that it’s
good ; and, all things considered, °Ferrars b pickerin- e
!?° “ a very decent Australian and an inky way
if nl i *l as ? * much ca . use to blush for his forebears
of the last few generations. - xorepears


c
Mb
%
ri
m
, f.z 2*../.vAv%ri£vV
.. MHK
9m
mm
mm
M&
ifti
*
•*r.
m
v
>
4
/-
_\
A
4)
1
4 s u
.. V
r\
A
■+
i
y \ '
/\/\
AA x x
/W\
IBM
/ /
I /
w
\
N
The Whisk
tf


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTEBS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The Western Australian Bank :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1905.. £21,283 17£ p.c. = £10,938 £10,295 £337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20 „ ~ 12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906 . 20,556 20 p.c. = 12,500 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 ~ ~ 15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,758 20 ~ ~ 15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 ~ ~ 15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums on 2500 new shares 31,560 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,568 20 p.c. = 17,006 6,562 449,440
Premiums on new shares .. 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c. = 17,500 3,957 464,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 ~ ~ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 ~ ~ 17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new' shares .. 27,024 509,460
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.c.= 19,189 8,756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.c. = 20,000 7,206 538,398
Mar., 1911.. 29,066 •20 „ „ 20,000 9,066 547,464
Premiums on new shares .. 71,420 619,284
Sept., 1911.. 28,110 20 p.c. = 23,939 4,171 623,455.
Premiums on new shares .. 18,180 641,634
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.e.= 25,000 10,349 651,982
Sept., 1912.. 36,488 20 ~ ~ 25,000 11,488 663,475
Very few of the shareholders, though, get 20 p.c.
When the big gold discoveries were made in the
West this bank, though then 50 years old, was very
small pumpkins. Twenty years ago its paid capital
was only £70,000, and its reserves barely £lOO,OOO.
Then, however, things began to move, and the bank
moved with them. At that time, and for a long
while previously, the dividend was 17j p.c. There
was need for so much more capital, and there were
so many other banks competing for the new business
Westralia had to do, that it was obviously quite im-
possible to pay 174 p.c. on the new capital if it
was issued at par. The directors, therefore, got into
the habit of issuing the new shares at a premium ;
and the practice has been continued right along till
now, when the capital stands at £250,000. The
last lot of £lO-paid shares were taken by share-
holders at £2B, and a few left over, representing
fractions, were bought by the public at about £32.
At £2B the 20 p.c. div. is equal to about £7 2s. 6d.
p.c. And even that is a good return, taking all the
circumstances into account. Assume that the re-
serves as well as the capital are intact—in other
words, that the assets are worth just what they are
alleged to be worth in the balance-sheet. Then, there
being 25,000 shares, the shareholders’ funds repre-
sent over £36 per share. The question, of course,
is whether the assets are worth 20s. in the £ of
their book-value. There is positively no way of
telling from the outside whether they are or not.
And even from the inside it is possible' to make wild
miscalculations. But things look all right. Capital
and reserves combined show a profit of £8 Is. lOd.
p.c., and that is quite good enough to suggest that
there isn’t much inflation of the assets. Also, the
policy of the directors in issuing new capital onlv
at a stiff premium, and putting the premium by to
strengthen the reserves, buttresses the idea that Pru-
dence has a seat on the Board. The chances are that
there would be a horrible mess some day if it hadn’t;
for Westralia’s gold production is slumping, and
agricultural prosperity isn’t arriving with equal
speed. Still, though the decadence of goldfields
towns means a sheaf of wilted assets, there is this
to be remembered : the boom produced by money
dug out of a foreign Cohen’s pocket has far worse
after-effects than the one produced by gold dug out
of the local earth. Cohen has to be paid back, with
interest: the earth hasn’t.
The next comparison shows that in a general way
this purely Westralian bank has had much the same
12 months’ history as most Australian banks:—•
Liabilities.
Sept., 11. Sept., 12.
Notes in circulation .. £43,095 £16,987 Dec. £26 108
Bills, etc. .. .. 119.725 246,207 Inc. 126,482
Free deposits .. ..1,425.926 1,373,795 Dec. 52,131
Deposits at interest ..1,527,95 ) 1,284,157 Dec. 243302
Assets.
Liquid assets .. ..1,300,891 1,032,136 Dec. 268,755
Advances .. .. 2,637,908 2,748,481 Inc. 110,573
Premises .. .. 80,000 79,000 Dec. 1,000
Deposits have been called for and overdrafts have
been climbing higher; so the coin, etc., has been
drawn upon pretty severely. There is now only 33
p.c. of the liabilities in liquid assets—an unusuallv
small proportion for this bank, which, because of
its very large holding of free deposits (current ac-
counts), ought to hold a good deal more than most
banks. It is very doubtful, indeed, whether it
hasn’t reached the very limit of prudent lending, on
its present resources. But while its cash position is
not now markedly strong, its creditors are in the
happy condition of being able to find out that, on
figures, they are protected better than almost any
other lot of bank shareholders in Australia, because
there is less than £3 10s. of the public’s money in
the business for every £1 belonging to the share-
holders. Or put it this way: The bank owes
£2,921,146. Its liquid assets total £1 032,136
Thus, there is £1,889,010 of debt, with £2,827,481
of non-liquid assets to pay it with. Westralia would
have to get a terrific wallop to knock off that
margin.
The Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd
(Sydney) : ’
. Added to Re-
fcept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1900 ..£14,064 8 p.c. = £4275 £9,789 £27 224
1901 .. 15,291 8„ „ 4285 11,006 38’230
1902 .. 11,629 8 „ „ 4295 7,334 45,564
Loss.
1903 .. 4,369 Nil 41 195
Profits.
1904 .. 11,057 8 p.c. = 4300 6,757 47,952
1905 ... 8,527 8 „ „ 4300 4,227 52,179
1906 .. 13,212 8 ~ ~ 4300 8,912 61,091
N.Q. Accident Co.’s reserves .. 976 62,067
1907 .. 20,260. 8 p.c.= 6000 14,260 76,327
1908 .. 13,033 8 „ „ 6000 7,033 83,360
1909 .. 15,646 8 „,, 6000 9,646 93,006
1910 .. 23,212 10 „ ~ 7500 15,712 108,718
1911 1 83,959 10 ” ” 7500 26,459 135,177
•) Transferred to capital, £25,000 110,177
Reserve for unearned premiums disclosed, £40,000 150,177
1912 156,827 10 p.c. = 10,000 46,827 197,004
•‘ 1 Transferred to capital, £25,000 172,004
In 1910 the accounts showed an item of £40,391,
which included outstanding claims and some sort of
a contingency fund. Up to that time there had
been no re-insurance reserve—that is, no fund repre-
senting the unearned portion of the premiums re-
ceived. In 1911 the co., having had a rattling good
year, decided to do what it should have done before,
and establish that reserve. The contingency fund
of unknown size was used as a nucleus, and an
amount (also of unknown size) was added out of
the profits for 1911 to bring the total to £40,000
The amount added out of the 1911 profits should, of
course, be shown as profits ; but that can’t be done.
Hence, really there has been less of a jump in the
profits between last year and this year than the
foregoing table shows.
The growth of this co.’s figures has been almost
amazing; and, though the concern is a mere young-
ster, it climbed last year in the first place in the
matter of premiums received by Australian offices.
Maonland offices are, of course, not included. This
shows a few things:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Kate. Kate.
1895.. £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70 - 7 p.c. 32T p.e.
1900.. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58'5 ~ 27’2 ~
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58'2 ~ 351 „
1907.. 104,153 53,052 34,987 50'9 ~ 33‘6 ~
1908.. 114,117 62,109 42,905 54’4 „ 37’6 ~
1909.. 116,156 61,768 44,384 53’2 „ 382 ~
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48’5 ~ 38'5 „
1911.. 153,604 65,092 58,768 42'3 ~ 38‘2 ~
191 2.. 201,832 88,292 64,810 137 „ 327 „
Progressive management has had a lot to do with
it—a management which hasn’t been afraid to stand
on its own housetop and declare that this is an Aus-
tralian office, and, other things being equal, has first
claim on Australians for that reason. And it has
been able to show that other things have, generally
speaking, been more than equal. Consider, for in-
stance, that the visible profits of the past six years
have amounted to £162,937, while the amount paid
out in dividends has been only £43,000 —£43,000
paid out for the benefit of the shareholders ;£ 119,937
left in the business for the protection of policy-
holders. That sort of thing would come naturally
enough after a disaster of some kind when reserves
had been depleted ; but there had been nothing like
that in this case. It has simply been a determina-
tion to make the reserves worthy of the rapidly
growing business; and undoubtedly the self-denying-
policy is going to pay. It is paying; for, though
there are people who still scatter their insurance busi-
ness blindly, they are a gradually disappearing race
of curiosities.
The co. down to 1905 had a paid capital of
£53,750. It had been a few pounds less a few years
earlier. Then the North Queensland Accident Insur-
ance Co.’s business, which had always been done in
the same office by the same people, was incorporated,
and the capital went to £75,000 in 150,000 shares
of 10s. each. Last year shares were paid up to 13s.
4d. out of accumulated profits, and this year another
3s. 4d. is added. The business has grown so fast
that, in spite of the fact that so much of the profit has
been left in the till, the funds are still not very strong
in proportion to risks. Capital and reserves combined
are £297,004; premium income (the only" measure
of risks) was £201,832. Funds are, therefore, 148
p.c. of premiums—not a poor showing, though there
are better. But so far as it isn’t very good, it is
due entirely to the swift increase of business. For
instance, supposing the premium income last year
and the year before had been increased by only
£lO,OOO p.a., a very respectable figure, then the pre-
sent funds would have been equal to 206 p.c. of the
income. Also, the funds, if for the reason men-
tioned not exceptionally great, are exceptionally
good. You can judge of the quality of the assets
pretty well by the one fact that office furniture (in-
cluding stationery, etc,) at head office and branches
has been written down to nothing.
The United Insurance Co. (fire and
marine), of Sydney:—
Written To Re- Re-
»ept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £7,302 5 p.c,= £3,411 £3,891 £88,161
1900.. 10,267 10 ~ ~ 6,823 3,444 91,605
1901.. 13,809 10 ~ „ 6,823 £B5OO 90,031
1902.. 23,102 10 „ 6,823 16,279 106,310
1903.. 21,686 12* ~ ~ 8,528 212 12,946 119,256
1904.. 21,376 12* ~ ~ 8,528 365 12,483 131,739
1905.. 21,603 12* „ ~ 9,673 4712 7,218 138,957
1906.. 20,032 12* ~ ~ 10,675 9,357 148,314
1907.. 16,855 12* ~ ~ 10,675 - 6,180 154,494
1908.. 13,531 12* „ ~ 10,675 2,856 157,350
1909.. 11,353 12* „ „ 10,675 113 565 157,915
1910.. 15,250 12* ~ ~ 10,675 4,575 162,490
1911.. 24,650 12*,, ~ 10,675 13,975 176,465
1912.. 24,020 12*,, ~ 10,675 13,345 189,810
But that last line isn’t what interests shareholders
most in these accounts. There is to be a little
capitalisation of reserves. Of 50,000 shares of £lO,
each paid to £2 10s., 34,161 are issued. It is now
proposed to issue another 5839, making 40,000 alto-
gether. Each holder of 100 shares will thus be en-
titled to apply for 17. He will pay £2 10s. apiece
for them, which will bring the paid capital up to
£lOO,OOO. Thereupon (this will happen immedia-
tely after January 31 next, the date of the allot-
ment) the directors will declare a bonus and at the
same tithe make a call of 10s., which will bring all
shares up to £3 paid. Apart from the 10s., the
issue of the new shares at par represents a com-
fortable bonus, as presumably the old 12* p.c. div.
will be paid on the lot. In that connection it may
be worth noting, though, that 2* p.c. is always
called bonus—which may mean that the directors
hold themselves at liberty to drop it at any time
without feeling that they have been misleading any-
body. The putting up of the extra £15,000 or so
of cash will be all to the advantage of the co.’s
policyholders. The more capital that is paid up and
the more profits that are left in, the better the
guarantee that the till won’t he empty when the
client calls with the proof of a loss in his pocket
Still, the policyholder hasn’t hitherto had any cause
to complain on that score. Shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves) are equal to 190 p.c. of last
year s premiums; and there are very few foreign
offices which can show figures like that. The aver-
age of the leading British offices is only 162 p.e.
Last year’s loss rate in the fire branch was bad, no
doubt; but, counting marine and , accident business
in, the total was somewhere near the average i—
,P re " Ex- Lo--s Expense
maims. Los-es. penses. Race. Rate.
1895.. £58,499 £32.855 £19,580 56‘2 p.c 33-5 p c
1900.. 70,779 38.589 25,290 54-5 „ 3.57 '
1905.. 88,609 42,250 35,832 477,, 40’4”
1907.. 95,620 46,350 * 39,822 48‘5 ~ 41‘6 ”
1908.. 98,493 51,012 41,942 51-8 ~ 42\5 ”
1909.. 100,713 52,746 44,535 52'3 „ 44-2 ”
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49‘2 „ 44-0
1911.. 117,483 47,800 53,214 407 ~ 45-3 ”
1912.. 143,309 69,057 59,174 48'2 „ 4T3 ,’,
That shows a fine jump in premium income, due no
doubt (1) to the growth of the accident business,
the result of recent employer’s liability legislation,
and (2) to a growing disinclination to pauperise
Australia by sending business and the pro-
fits of business out of the country. Per-
haps also this co. has wakened up a bit. Of its
strength there can’t be a serious question ; if some-
thing catastrophic struck Australia, and this co. was
hit by claims exceeding all those it has paid during
the past 3* years put together, it could meet them
out of its liquid assets, without touching its free-
and its very modest mortgages
St Joseph’s Investment and Building
Society (Sydney) :
Depre-
ciation
Profit Divi- Writ- Nomi-
Ilusiness on dend ten nai Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. (5 p.c.) Off. serves.
1900 .. £2985 £3OOO £264
1901 . . 2473 2500 237
1902 . . 3544 3500 281
1903 .. 3341 3500 122
1904 .. 3496 . .3500 118
1905 .. 3601 "3500 219
1906 .. 3575 3500 294
Assets written up, £28,588, which amount
was transferred to capital.
1907 .. 3978 4000 272
1908 .. 4438 £6654 £2809 8,555
1909 . . 5071 1420 2858 12,188
1910 .. 5015 367 2858 14,712
1911 . . 6485 1220 2858 19,559
Reserves transferred to capital. . £9529 10,030
1912 .. 6885 1056 3335 14.636
Those last few lines look good. When a Board can
put its hand on its waistcoat and swear that it has
paid away only 42 p.c. of its profits, it introduces
itself very well, anyhow. And when the dividend is
only 5 p.c., the directors must have the share-
holders well in hand. Certainly there are some
special circumstances. When for years you have
had the idea that you made a colossal ass of your-
self, and when you have in consequence submitted
to the shearing of £7 off every £lO of your capital,
you naturally feel pretty good when presently £3
and then £1 of the lost money is restored—so good
that you don’t feel justified in bruising the directors
even if they do pay only a 5 p.c. div. And this is
what has happened with the St. Joseph’s. In the
days of the old boom it borrowed merrily and* lent
merrily ; and when the slump came, and depreciated
assets were thrown on its hands, it not only had to
write down its shares from £lO to £3 to square
the losses, but it had to go without divs. itself,
and it was even driven to ask the creditors for a
little mercy. Presently, however, the curses of Pro-
tection and various samples of social legislation be-
gan to get in their deadly work, and the property
market revived. Some of the old securities were
sold, others were re-valued. The society felt good
enough presently to push out for new business, and
with the Hey dons and the Mcßrides and the Donelans
and the Mullinses on the Board and the name of
one of the saints over the doorway, the new business
came. Hitherto this paper has had to complain that
the assets were lumped so that one couldn't tell how
much the new business stood for, and what sediment
of the old was left. The management turns over a
new leaf now. Here is the position:—
Assets.
Old mortgages £18,472
New ditto 30,218
Foreclosures . . . . . . . . 72,811
Liquid assets, office premises, sundries 23’327
Total £144,828
On the other side, the co. owes £60,154. Properties
in possession are still too considerable to be com-
fortable ; but, for the present, anyhow, they appear
to be bringing in good interest, seeing that the
earnings on the assets all round are a shade over 7
p.c. Still there’s too much money in decaying
bricks and crumbling mortar.
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dune-
din, M.L.): —
WrPten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £4,582 6 p.c. =£4352 £5O £20,459
Premiums on new shares 85 20,544
1902.. 8,666 7 p.c. = 5842 £3BOO 19 568
1903.. 7,272 7 „ ~ 5842 1500 10,498
1904.. 667 3£ „ ~ 2921 17,244
1905.. 3,312 3J „ ~ 2921 328 63 17,307
1906.. 2,483 2J- „ ~ 2086 552 17,152
1907.. 5,093 4 ~ „ 3338 1695 60 17,212
1908.. 7,073 5 ~ „ 4173 2746 154 17,366
1909.. 7,230 5$ „ „ 4590 2500 140 17,506
1910.. 9,845 6 ~ ~ 5007 4500 338 17,844
1911.. 8,466 6 „ ~ 5007 3000 459 18.303
1912.. 11,827 7 ~ ~ 5842 5500 485 18,788
Profits have taken a jump; but they got part of
their spring from a sale of land, which put the co.
£lOO5 to the good. The amount written off is
generally substantial; but this time it is bulkier
than usual, owing to a special provision of £l5OO
for new machinery and £lOOO for new building.
These amounts are properly written off if the new
assets are to replace old ones about to be discarded.
This, question of depreciation is the unknown quan-
tify in the problem of successful investment in
“industrials.” The published accounts say—“ Plant,
£59,037.” Now, how can you or the next man
know whether that asset has depreciated £lOOO or
£5OOO in the year? Some new process may indeed
have been adopted by rivals which render it almost
imperative that £lO,OOO worth (book-value) of
machinery shall be scrapped. The canny investor,
of course, gets to know the directors if he can’t be-
come a director himself; but very often they don’t
know whether they are writing enough off of profits,
though they know sometimes that they are writing
off too little. The only thing to do is to take
notice of the general record of an industrial concern,
and then in nearly every case require a high interest-
return in order to cover the risk of presently finding
out that a lot of your capital is scrap-iron.’ In this
case one or two comparisons may be made —perhaps
profitably. Ten years ago plant stood at £57,054.
The working account showed a profit in. that 12
months of £19,580. This year plant ktands at
£59,037, and the profit on working account is
£22,634. The business, though there is no indica-
tion of any big movement, appears to have grown
gradually; and an average of about £2200 a year
appears to have been spent on new plant. This
means that out of the net revenue about £2200 a
year has been spent on new plant to replace old;
and the fact that the business has apparently moved
on continuously suggests that that £2200 has been
rather more than sufficient to keep the plant, as a
whole, up to its old standard. Ten years ago the
co. owed £17,529. and owned £58,043 in liquid
assets, book debts and stock ; to-day it owes £14,119
and owns £54,307, apart from three or four thou-
sand due on land sold. After paying for the new
plant and distributing the dividend (which has been
as low as 24 p.c.) the co. hasn’t, therefore, got much
for arder.
* * *
The City of Brisbane Building So-
ciety :
Dividends and Carried fo
kept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
1899 .. £6O 5 p.c. =£36 £]g
1900 ..123 5„ „ 108 15 . 3
Reserves
1901 .. 188 5 ~ ~ 167 21 18
1902 .. 206 5 ~ ~ 199 7 95
1903 .. 275 5 ~ ~ 255 20 45
1904 260 5 „ )( 241 19 94
1905 .. 240 5 ~ ~ 242 62
1906 .. 242 5 ~ ~ 239 3 65
1907 .. 290 5 ~ ~ 261 29 94
1908 .. 314 5 ~ ~ 296 is no
1909 .. 360 5 ~ ~ 332 28 140
1910 .. 42? 5 ~ „ 404 23 163
1911 .. 476 5 ~ ~ 459 17 180
1912 .. 530 5 ~ ~ 510 20 200
Advances have crept up to £11,439; and that repre-
sents the society s one asset. £2OO isn’t very much
of a reserve to cover the risk of depreciation in mort-
gages of that size. On the other hand, two things
have to be remembered—(l) the loans are on build-
ing-society terms, and are, therefore, always being
reduced ; (2) the society isn’t risking the loss of any-
body else s capital—except for a few pounds of an
overdraft it works entirely on its own money As
hitherto, expenses are very moderate. In fact, every-
thing is very moderate, including, apparently, the
interest charges.
*** * *
J. F 1 elding and Co., Ltd., boxinakers,
printers ami carton makers (Sydney), who began in
1910 with a goodwill or paper asset of £5OOO
shown hereunder as a deficit:—
Towards
Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Deficit.
1010 •• ,~ . ~ £5OOO
1911 / Premiums on new shares £32)
\ £2750 10 p.c. = £1577 1173 | 3/95
Premiums on new shares 38 3757
1912 .. 3418 10 p.c. = 1801 1617 214 0
Of the past year’s profit £4OO has been transferred
to a machinery depreciation reserve; and perhaps it
would be just as well to strike the amount off the
profit at once. When this little co.' was formed
Thomas Davis and Co. gave the business its benedic-
tion, certifying that the assets were £7867 more
than the liabilities. The vendor took £867 in cash
and 12,000 £1 shares, which meant that he took
5000 shares for the intangible, invisible goodwill of
the business. The co. has started well; and, since
they send home even sausages and ice-cream in a
can I hoard box nowadays, its prospects should be
good. Originally 8000 shares were offered to the
public, but, though money was plentiful in those
days and industrials” were popular, the public toot
only about 5000. A few that have been put off
since have brought the total to 6068. The capital
/ wasn ’t enough, so, besides trade debts
( £2201), the co. owes £4455, secured on mort-
gage of new factory premises which stand as an
asset worth £8856. The other assets are stock,
plant and book debts. The frothy goodwill item
needs to be cleared off the premises and replaced by
undivided profit. When that is done the accounts
will look very satisfactory, though, of course, prac-
tically everything (profit included) depends upon
the valuing of the stock, etc.
Tasmania’s Hydro-Electric (Complex
Ores) Co. hasn’t got the necessary coin to complete
its works, and has sacked all casual hands. It is
alleged that some clever folks have manipulated mat-
ters in the money market so successfully that the co.
finds it impossible to pay the exorbitant interest de-
manded. That’s one yarn. Another yarn is that the
co. was bound to get into difficulties because of the
enormous amount of dead capital (about a quarter-
million) in the show. Both rnav be right. The
expenditure to date has been £i70,000, of which
some £50,000 is earmarked in London to pay for
machinery. The Government is offered the assets of
the co. at cost price; but Premier Solomon, having
been brought up in the school that teaches that no
State can possibly succeed where P. Enterprise has
failed, looks askance at the proposal. A strong-
minority, including most of the Labor members,
reckons the State should immediately seize the op-
portunity of buying the show ; others opine that the
State will get it cheaper by waiting a while. The
danger lies in the fact that private capitalists may
jump in. A new co., unhandicapped by the quarter-
million paper capital represented bv promoters’
shares, would be on a good thing; for the Great
Lake and its effluent Shannon unquestionably consti-
tute one of the finest hydro-electric propositions in
the world. It is understood that the present co.,
having been squeezed unkindly by the British money-
lenders already, is averse to- risking complete ab-
sorption by Cohen, and is consequently desirous of
saving the pieces by arranging a partnership with,
or a straight-out sale to, the Island Government. In
any case, the promoters seem to have bitten off
enough to nearly choke ; and the Hobart Gas Co..
among others, is joyfully waving its chimney-pot 1
the atmosphere.
‘Ricardo” : Cabena, a member of the Mel-
bourne City Council, now in London, writes forcibly
on the question of electric trams for his own city,
and declares that the motor-’bus will super-
sede the tram. The London Omnibus Co.,
now all electric, with £2,500,000 capital,
cai ries more passengers than the electric tram
system which cost £12,500,000. London County
Council has ordered 400 motor-’buses to connect with
the tram service. The Omnibus Co. has 2200 electric
buses, adds 32 per week, and in spite of a lot of
rolling stock which has been scrapped, pays a 25
per cent, dividend. A motor-’bus costs about half
as much as a tram, and there is no expense for
roadway, power-house .or wires. Nominally a tram
will carry three times as many people, but it doesn’t
do it. London County Council tram receipts for the
week ending August 24 were £38,000, while the
buses took £52,000. In the last six months the
decrease m takings on all English tramways has ex-
ceeded £lOO,OOO, and this despite the ' fact that
some provincial systems showed an increase of
£150,000, which was swallowed up in the general
deficit. Cabena reckons that Melbourne had better
make a close study of the ’bus business before it
goes in for costly trams.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) bad up to tlm end of
October produced 51 tons 3cwt. 2qr. 191 b. of fine
gold (avoirdupois)..
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10, one of the once-
big Barrier silver-lead-zinc propositions:—
Loss. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Sept., 03 £1,777 Nil Sept., ’OB £22.080 £5,000
Profit. Mar., ’O9 39,284 10,000
Mar., ’O4 12,680 N'l Sept., ’O9 28,844 20,000
Sept., 04 11,090 Nil Mar., ’lO 3,422 20,000
Mar., ’O5 20,438 Nil Sept., ’lO 15,243 15,000
Sept., ’O5 114.340 £15,000 Mar., ’ll 28,991 10,000
Mar., ’O6 46,804 60,000 Sept., ’ll 11,479 10,000
Sept., ’O6 49.625 30,000 Loss.
Mar., ’O7 61,945 55,000 Mar., ’l2 8,851 10,000
Sept., ’O7 65,786 50,000 Profit.
Mar., ’OB 12,256 30,000 Sept., ’l2 36,049 10,000
That big improvement has been mainly due to the
hurried change that came over the metal markets
a few months ago. Here are the average prices for
some terms:—
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
„ J s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
Sept., 1902 .. 2 0J II 5 9 18 13 5
Sept., 1905 . . 2 3J 13 8 0 24 7 6
Sept., 1908 2 04 13 2 5 19 12 10
Sept., 1911 . . 2 0i 13 11 6 25 8 0
Mar., 1912 . . 2 2 15 12 3 26 10 0
Sept., 1912 .. 2 6.} 18 5 3 25 17 2
As . lead spurted past £20,, and then began to fall
quickly, the directors deeded to put by jc20.000 of
the half-year’s profit in case it should' be reclaimed
presently. With most of these metal contracts the
final settlement is made on the quotations six months
after delivery, and lots of bad things may happen to
a booming metal market in six months. “ The profit
of £36,049 must therefore be regarded as tentative
oniy. And of that £36,049 the sale of old tailings
brought in £7215 in excess of the amount already
taken credit for, and sundries £823. This leaves
£28,011 as the half-year’s profit from cuirent work-
ing, after deducting a poor little £2715 for depre-
ciation. A fair amount to write off for wear and
tear in ordinary circumstances would be about £6500.
this would make the half-year’s fair net profit,
apart from old tailings, about £24,000. The ore
treated was 47,954 _ tons; so it can be said that
Block 10, during this period of very high prices has
been making 10s. per ton. It is a 'sick record.
And the sickest part of it is that there don’t
appear to be very much brighter things ahead. Six
months ago the new manager estimated that there
were 283,500 tons of ore in reserve. Since then a
d ; scovery has been made on the Sulphide Corpora-
tion s boundary, and nrospecting from that mine at
a depth equal to 1245 ft. in Block 10. the latter co.
has proved a 19ft. body averaging 4.10 z. silver, 16.3
p.c. lead and 8.7 p.c. zinc in the crosscut. ’ The
average quality of the stuff treated during the year
was 11.950 z. silver, 12.6 p.c. lead and 14.53 p.c.
zmc. The B. H. South makes a very fine profit from
ore averaging 6.50 z. silver, 14.3 p.c. lead and 13.6
p.c. zinc ; so, if it were of a good milling character
and capable of being cheaply mined, the new body
in Block 10 would be well worth having. The
manager says “it appears quite possible that the de-
velopment may be of great importance in considering
the future of Block 10”; but he doesn’t add a
word about the character of the ore. And that is the
weak point. Last half-year Block 10 extracted only
42 p.c. of the silver and 68i p.c. of the lead, while
the South got out 57i p.c. of the silver and 70 p.c.
of the lead at less cost.
The future, notwithstanding the development that
may be of great importance, is mostly uncertain •
where it isn’t uncertain it is gloomy. In the old
workings, the ore doesn’t amount to more than
250,000 tons, and much of it is difficult to get at
Also it can’t be got at quickly, and that piles up
the standing charges. The most reliable asset is the
surplus of liquid assets; it is £81,020 now, as
against £143,084 18 months ago. The shareholders
have meantime had only £30.000. That is to sav
they have had . considerably less than the alleged’
current net profits ; and yet the surplus of liquid
assets has been reduced by £62,000. Most of that
money has gone into new plant, which was one of


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 &. 6 Spring St., Sydney.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
MIC.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY ,S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 56,181 0 8
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0 0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th September, 1912 .. ..£9,672,366 8 0
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, Attorneys
under Power, Agents, etc.
CHARGES LOW. ABSOLUTE SECURITY.
EXPERT MANAGEMENT.
Trust Funds to Lend on Approved Securities
• at from 5 per cent.
Write or call for Booklet. A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at j t
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St„ Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane; JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney;
McGLEWA CO., Adelaide; M ALLOCH BROS., Perth
Yanco scandals ? No, Circuit Breakers! We just
wanted to say that it is poor economy to be satisfied
with anything less than the very best to protect your
circuit. Get a “D. & S.” from Haes and Eggers Ltd.,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney. See p. 3.*
* * * *
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion refining, etc. This firm haye now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 356 George Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* [2
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grim wade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane. Melbourne.*
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
. * * *■
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Cot.uson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
« * * »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 meslj; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain ; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces: Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals: etc.*
* * *■
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Informatio'n tree.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
the operations reported necessary in order to keep
the giant-that-was on its feet. No doubt there will
be others. They may succeed; but whether they do
or not, they will beusure to lot of money.
“F. J. 1.”: I have had to wade through
Watt’s’ Victorian Budget papers, a mass of detached
tables of figures, intricate in the extreme, and often
contradictory. The production is a jumble of dis-
connected statistics, nearly impossible of under-
standing by an expert. Yet the ordinary M.L.A. is
supposed to grasp Victoria’s financial position from
an olla podrida of complex accounts. Why cannot
the Treasury officials, who compile State balance-
sheets, ask a practising accountant to draft a skele-
ton balance-sheet, one of receipts and expenditure
and one of profit and loss for State trading depart-
ments? It should be easy to draw up on one sheet
of foolscap a statement showing all the receipts tor
the year on one side and all the disbursements on
the other. That is to say, all revenue, whether from
taxes or loans, should appear on one side of the ac-
count, and all expenditure, whether from the con-
solidated fund or from loans, on the other. What is
here written applies to every one of the six State
Budgets. And another urgent reform in balance-
sheets should be made by the Commonwealth Par-
liament passing a short Act of three clauses to com-
pel the banks to issue a monthly, not a quarterly,
statement of their position. The present quarterly
averages of the 13 Monday’s balances is quite mis-
leading. The banks themselves have never known
how much gold is held in Australia. A bank may
be flush of gold at the beginning of a quarter and
absolutely short of it at the end. If every bank
furnished a return on the last day of the month, as
the Bank of England does every Thursday, the pub-
lic, as well as the bankers, would know the exact
position. And, knowing the exact condition of his
fellow-hankers’ coffers, a banker could better regu-
late his own till-money and his advances and de-
posits. There should never be a financial stringency
in this country, because the weather and the gold
reserves are our barometers.
The Grafton (N.S.W.) district just at
present is feeling better than it has for many a year,
its leading (if not only) mine, the Grafton, at Can-
gai, appears to have renewed its grip on life, and
is now handing out dividends. The Pulganbar quick-
silver show, next door to the Glamorgan, is getting
ready with a plant to treat its high-priced com-
modity—what there is of it —and expects to make
more than a do of things. At Solferino and Lions-
ville, the scenes of ancient gold discoveries, fresh
finds are being reported. They have inspired almost
a stir. But the trouble with the Grafton district is
that, so far, with the exception of Cangai, the ex-
citement has never seemed to last long, as witness
the silent testimony of numerous small workings all
over the place. They have been chiefly for gold,
copper, mercury and antimony. Only recently was
announced the death of the Mount Brown, near Coff’s
Harbor. For a little while an exceptionally promis-
ing colt, it early succumbed to the prevailing malady.
The Glamorgan Copper Option Syndicate
has been formed, with a capital of 1000 shares of
li 10 each. The property is situated at Gordon -
broolt, about 12 miles from Oopma-nhurst, the navi-
gable head of the Clarence River (N.S.W.). As
with many another show in the Grafton district, the
so-called development consists of a few shallow shafts
to water level, or less, sunk in small scattered lodes
that are patchy, with occasional dabs of richness.
More thorough development is intended, with a view
to larger capitalisation later- —if the wafer-level is
survived.
Mount Ross diamond and tin mine, Cope-
ton (N.S.W.), is opening up a wide lead of bouldery
wash at a depth of 165 ft. Ventilation is good, as
there are two shafts, and drainage gives very _ little
trouble, because one shaft is down several feet in the
granite below the washdirt. The latter is in places
6ft. deep, with a layer of dolerite on top of the
wash. This dolerite is called a top-wash, because in
places it contains one carat of diamonds (3 1-5
grains) to the load. The first washing will be put
through at the end of this month. As to the tin
contents, some time ago they were estimated at
351 b. per load ; but it is difficult to value this boul-
dery stuff. Assorted parcels of diamonds have been
recently sold in Inverell at from 13s. 6d. to 17s. per
carat. ' The Alfredamia claim, at Slaggy Creek, is
turning out a number of small diamonds that realise
these prices. #
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) is altering its con-
centrating plant, and introducing the mineral separa-
t:on process on a large scale. Pending the completion of
these alterations the output of metals is on a re-
duced scale. Last month gave 541 tons copper,
2801 oz. gold and 10,7560 z. silver. For 10 months
the return has been 59674 tons copper, 35,9500 z.
gold and 196,5470 z. silver. The average pans out
6oz. gold and 320 z. silver per ton of copper. That
district is now easily the most important gold, as
well as copper, producing centre in N.S.W. Besides
Great Cobar, there is Mount Boppy, whose returns
filter through from England. The latest to hand is
2112oz.‘gold for a month. And the Occidental, with
a plant adapted to its ore, should also strike better
form again.
* * * *
Sanguine expectations have been .raised in
Canbelego and Cpbar (N.S.W.), by the discovery
in Mount Boppy Block 5.1 (owned hv a small syndi-
cate) of copper ore at a depth of 200 ft. About all
that is known at present is that the ore is heavilv
charged with iron and sulphur, and, judging by
assays, from the crosscut,, carries payable values.
The find is under a big blow of ironstone, extending
some distance across the lease.
* * * »
“Bar One” : Re par. on Great Boulder (B.
31/10/T2). This co.’s sound position may have been
helped by good management, but it also had good
healthy values to shove it along the road to divi-
dends, champagne and press notices. Anyhow, that
same management hasn’t got anything to skite about
when it talks costs. Boulder’s actual working cost
(excluding development and plant) is the highest of
the big mines on the fields, as the following averages
for the last six months will show: Great Boulder,
20s. 9d. ; Golden Horseshoe, 20s. 6d.; lialgurli, 20s.
6d. ; Ivanhoe, 19s. 4d. ; Associated, 19s. Id. ; Per-
severance, 18s. 2d. ; South Kalgurli, 17s. lOd. ; Lake
View and Star, 17s. 7d. ; Oroya Links, 16s. 4d. Kal-
gurli’s 20s. 6d. cannot be regarded as a true average,
as this mine has just started contract stoping, and
costs for the last two months are down to 19s. 9d.,
and look like staying there. There is really only one
mine (the ’Shoe) whose costs approach Boulder’s,
and neither Horseshoe nor any other mine has the
advantage of three main hauling shafts like G. 8.,
two of them down as far as the lode goes, and the
other (Hamilton) as tar as the lode has heeltapped
in that particular section. This saves mijie
big item in working costs. And, again, even
sufficiently prospected below the 20 0 °ft-> °J. n
below the 1500 ft.? No doubt it is
but not transversely, except by bores. Lodes bav
been missed by drills before to-day r , , *
crosscuts later on. It would be interesting <
a plain, unbiassed report on the mine by' the direc
tors. Judging from the number of shares held by
it would not be very optimistic. The co. is in
1,750,000 shares, and the qualification for a director
is a holding of 2500 shares. In June las * Q f °^ r ft _w
tors were on the register for barely 13 ’ 0 . 0 , 0 J “ t
enough to keep them on the Board. Have they go
out because they think the sky looks a bit overca t.
Principal Westralian results for October :
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £•
Great Boulder . . 18,420 49,630 27,201 68/10
Ivanhoe .. .. 20,265 39,045 16,015 38/6
Kalgurli . . .. 11,120 21,686 9,118 38/10
Yuanmi . . . . 10,500 18,586 6,904 35/o
Boulder Persever- _ „., K
ance . . . - 21,607 26,399 5,534 24/5
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,814 21,738 4,684 31/6
Lake View and Star 18,402 21,894 3.801
Oroya Links . . 11,650 12,817 2,310 22/-
Associated .. 10,820 14,073 2,024 26/-
Golden Horseshoe 28,592 34,157 1,011 23/10
South Kalgurli . . 9,694 11,362 1.600 Wit
Great Fingall .. 6,166 10,037 2,040 32/6
Mararoa . . . . 2,740 4,985 1,985 o
Golden Ridge .. 2,981 5,201 1./00 34/10
Sand Queen .. 1,430 3,829 1,500 53/6
Associated Northern _ _ „„„ „ „
(Ora Banda) . . 5,000 4,702 1,338 18/9
Ingliston Extended 900 2,530 732 56/3
Black Range . . 2,941 6,932 2,406
Menzies’ Consolidated 2,076 3,932 381 37/10
Lake View Consols 9,270* 1,709 470 3/8
Associated Northern 1,813 f 8,291 91/6
Commodore . . 1,020 1,630 465 31/11
Ida H. . . . . 1,250 2,923 415 46/9
Golden Butterfly 1,400 1,373 350 19/7
Lady Miller .. 1,980 2,018 81 20/5
Marvel Loch .. 1,250 1,683 23 27/-
Fenian .. .. 2,785 8,043 • 57/9
Loss.
Hainault . . . . 5,532 6,134 209 22/2
Morning Star .. 862 1,800 229 41/9
Mountain Queen 4,077 3,850 757 18/10
Burbank’s Main Lode 1,803 4,396 935 48/9
*old tailings. (Mostly tributors’ ore.
After allowing for everything, Golden
Ridge (W.A.) made a net profit of £8042 for
the half-year ended September 30. The unappropri-
ated balance from the previous six months increased
the surplus to £10,339 ; and after deducting £9734
for dividends and duty, there remained £605 to
carry forward. The cash assets on September 30
were: Bank deposit, £5166; bullion reserve, £4OOO ;
plant renewal reserve, £1670 ; current account,
£1063 ; total, £11,899. The manager again de-
clines to give a definite estimate of reserves, but
opines that the present output can be maintained
during the ensuing six months. He adds that the
past half-year’s work has not disclosed anything of
material value. The tonnages and recoverable values
of residues on hand are given as under: Sands, 2000
tons at 95., slimes 3000 tons at 135., concentrates
100 tons at 78s.
North Kalgurli (W.A.) lias decided to be
up and doing. For some years past its Kalgoorlie
leases have been in the hands of tribute parties, who
have recovered £130,000 and paid £20,000 royalty.
Notice has now been given that tributors will have
to quit when present agreements expire. This is
looked upon locally as an indication that the co.
is going to get work.
Hainault (W.A.) reports a return of
£78,825 for the year ended May 31, compared with
£84,237 for the previous 12 months. After deduct-
ing £12,708 for development and £5060 for plant
and machinery, the accounts show a debit of £2901,
which is chipped off the balance of £8971 carried
forward last year. Ore reserves remain as they were,
viz., 100,000 tons assaying 28s. Treatment troubles
have cropped up, the shoots on the eastern side of
the property (from which the bulk of mill supplies
is now drawn) being less tractable than those on the
western side, from which the co. derived most of its
wealth in the past. Costs have risen from 18s. Id.
to 19s. 3d. in consequence; but the recent installa-
tion of an additional roaster is expected to remedy
this. Since the close of the financial year develop-
ments at 375 ft. and 850 ft. have shown a big im-
provement.
Kalgurli (W.A.) recovered £251.630 for
the year ended July 31, which is about £48,000 less
than for the previous year. Working costs averaged
20s. 6d., compared with 19s. 10ld. As in the case
of all other Kalgoorlie mines, expenditure for the
ensuing year may be affected by an increase in
wages; but in the absence of material additions
under this head, it is anticipated that the mining
costs at this property will show some reduction,
whilst treatment costs should remain about the same.
For reasons already given on this page, no positive
estimate of reserves and values is attempted.
* * * *
Mountain Queen (W.A.) has got its
slimes plant going, and the directors’ expectations
of a monthly profit of £2OOO now have a chance of
proving what they are worth. In regard to the
Transvaal, which was recently purchased by this
co., arrangements have been made to borrow £20,000
from the Lake View and Oroya Exploration, Ltd., to
provide plant and equipment.
Altogether the amount authorised in
the West this year for the erection of State bat-
teries, water supplies, mine development, boring and
other assistance, totals £115,000. A State mill has
just been promised to Bamboo Creek and a tin dress-
ing plant at Wodgina, and advances are being made
against copper produced by prospectors at Roeboume.
All three centres are within the bounds of the far
distant Pilbarra field.
* * * *
Manager Nicolson estimates Ivanhoe’s re-
serves at June 30 at 1,064,676 tons, containing
£2,276,138, which is 31,275 tons and £29,925 less
than the consulting engineers, 8., M. and Co., reckon
there is in sight. Both estimates show a substantial
reduction in tonnages and values compared with
those for the previous half-year. Three-fourths of
the reserves are still in the east lode.
* * * *
With the Melbourne market reaping a
full crop of blues. Jim Mackay has whipped out a
dainty report on the new Langi Logan, Ararat. His
balance-sheet shows that deep-lead work isn’t a fat
thing. Also, it discloses what a grab was made by
the floaters. These took £lO,OOO in shares and
£5OOO in cash for untried land, the result being
that the co. is loaded with 100,000 shares, whereas
60,000 ought to have been the limit. To date,
£12,000 has gone in plant and buildings, and
£21,000 in boring, shaft sinking, reef driving, cross-
cutting under the lead and pumping. This outgoing
seems a lot, but it is only a preliminary canter.
The real test will come when manager Toole decides
to wire into the lead. The bit of luck he has had
so far is in the small quantity of water tapped. His
pumps can lift 3,500,000 gallons daily, but with 11
bores up he is only getting 750,000 gallons. Some
people said that he couldn’t be in the cnannel; but,
anyhow, the water in an old shaft of 30 years back
has gone down 10ft. The other string to Langi s
bow is the 3000 ft. of the Oathcart gutter it gets
from the border of the Central Co.’s lease. Below
the junction with the Oathcart tributary, the Langi
has over 3000 ft. of the big gutter to develop. Toole
lets go over the mine in a way to cheer those who
think the deep-lead work isn’t played out in Aus-
tralia. His bores into the wash have been good, and
the wash is nice-looking. So he writes that the New
Langi is a most valuable property, and a mine which
should pay well when drained.
* * * *
Carlisle is another Bendigo veteran that
looks like playing a Bulgar scoop. It has been push-
ing away with development work at the reasonable
depth of about 1200 ft. on the run of spurs from
which the Cornish United was able to extract a lot
of profits. The idea was to pick up the slides be-
tween which the gold made in the Cornish, the per-
sistence of these phenomena on the pitch of the
shoot being what adds certainty to Bendigo mining.
One slide was got at 1140 ft., and gold has come in
just where it was wanted on the eastern back. Real
mining will now be begun by driving levels north
and south. Should the c-o. show decent dirt at this
point, there is a clear 1800 ft. to work on. Any de-
velopment must raise up long-neglected Unity, which
is also having a shot at the same formation. Ben-
digo has become so unpopular through its new Prince
of Wales and United Hustler puffs, that a bit of
permanence in one of the old-timers was needed to
keep call-payers loyal to the field.
Mount Elliott (Q.) lias a dazzling record.
Since smelting commenced with the present plant
(September, 1910), 105,010 tons of ore have returned
13,391 tons of blister copper. This metal has been
remarkably pure, averaging in some instances 99
p.e fine. At the moment the output is greatly re-
duced by a heavy settlement of ground in the upper
levels. Fortunately the smelter has been kept sup-
plied with larger quantities of ore from the Hampden
Consols, drawn from the 80ft., 160 ft. and 250 ft.
levels. Dividends for some time to come depend
very considerably on the deeper levels at Mount
Elliott and the Hampden Consols, for these are the
only two mines connected by rail with the smelter.
So far the grade of stuff smelted has been unusually
high ; it has required only eight tons of ore to pro-
vide a ton of copper. But speculators had better keep
their eyes glued on the fact that it is one thing to
scoop out rich ore from shallow levels and quite a
different matter to exploit the deeps below the zone
of enrichment.
Mount Mulligan railway is un for consid-
eration in Queensland. With the makings of a col-
liery only 30 miles from its line, it is exasper-
ating for Chillagoe to be short of coke. They use
15,000 tons a year, costing £45,000. If Mount
Mulligan coal were available, coke would be ob-
tained at a cost of perhaps 30s. per ton. Much of
the coal won’t coke, but the directors have made
enough tests to satisfy them that a lot of it will,
and that the product" will be as good as they are
getting from the south.
Many Peaks (Q.), which supplies Mount
Morgan with pyritic flux at a royalty of 2s. 6d. per
ton, has had a development in the north winze,
which is being sunk in good ore towards the 570 ft.
level. The bore-holes —and the mine has been plen-
tifully bored —entirely missed this good make. The
rovalty paid by Mount Morgan for the quarter end-
ing March 31 was £3327, and very little of that
was eaten by expenses. Shares are seldom on the
market, and it is questionable whether the recent
develonment will increase their popularity, for Mount
Morgan will receive most, if not all, of the benefit.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, is
crushing stone averaging less than £6 per ton. The
two latest returns are 361 tons for £2059, and 558
tons for £3354. The completion of the new main
underlay shaft, from No. 2 level to No. 4, and its
junction with the rise from No. 5, may be expected
at any time now. While this work of equipping the
mine with a new hauling shaft to the 2600 ft. level
has been in hand, the driving of No. 5 has been sus-
pended, though the end was a beauty spot, the reef
for a cut or two averaging 6ft. wide. After the rise
is through and work is resumed in No. 5 level, the
ventilation will be greatly improved, and the crush-
ings should be increased. As to the future, no one
can speak with any certainty, for on this field zones
of mineralised stone frequently extend horizontally,
with white stone above and below. The zone of
mineral stone extending from Mills’ United to the
Mexican and N. B. Freehold is an instance. The
poor top levels of the Mexican are above the pay
shoot, and the bottom level of the Freehold is also
showing white.
***■■*
The New Queen Cross, Charters Towers
(Q.), is developing its Moonstone lease on a lucky
vein, and scrip has been traded in at a few pence
after a long spell of utter neglect. The reef cut in
the straight shaft, at 58ft. from the surface, has
been followed by sinking on the underlay, and the
present depth is slightly below No. 2 south-west
level driven by its neighbor, the Papuan V. and
Victoria Co. The reef in the sink is 15in. thick, and
the few tons that have been raised have been greatly
admired. The New Cross retains its big mob of
200,000 shares. The old co. paid £664,300, but
since 1906 its luck has been wretched, and prospect-
ing on the Moonstone has been undertaken as a last
resource.
* * * *
Mount Cuthbert (Q.) is equipping itself
with a powerful plant to continue sinking on the
quartz lode below the 350 ft. level. Some shrill,
though rather vague, statements were made at the
co.’s meeting. For instance, the Kalkadoon, half a
mile from Mount Cuthbert, was referred to as a
mine that will occupy, in relation to Cuthbert, a
position similar to that of the Duchess with regard
to Hampden. It is to be hoped it may do so, for
Cuthbert can do with a sweetener. Unlike the
Duchess, however, the Kalkadoon is not very rich,
and the little high-grade ore raised from above the
70ft. didn’t cause any excitement. As to the Leich-
hardt group, no doubt distance from the rail-head
has delayed development; still there are many proved
souibs in that locality, and it is to be hoped War-
wick Castle, Surprise and Mighty Atom, owned by
Mount Cuthbert, are not among the duffers. On
surface indications they certainly don’t appear to be
duffers.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) announces
a December div. of 2s. ( £16,000). There are
200,000 shares, but only 160,000 have been issued.
The high return shown on the market price ( £2
25.) is attractive, but the risk is considerable, for the
Wallaroo mines have mostly low-grade ore in the
deeps below 2000 ft., and boring at the very sick
Moonta has not resulted in any important discovery.
Dividends for this year (Is. 6d., 25., 25., 25.) mop
up £60,000, and it must have been tolerably easy
to earn the £5OOO per month, seeing that amount is
equal to only £lO per ton Of the copper produced.
* * * *
The mines at Woodlark Island, Papua,
have been guilty of a few sensational returns of late,
the most notable being 1090 oz. gold from 120 tons
of ore. This- was the August return of the Wood-
lark King. It is rumored that Mount Morgan wishes
to have a finger in the pie. Engineer Newman, until
recently connected with the Mount, has been in-
specting. It is known that he holds a high opinion
of the district and its possibilities, provided that
capital can be introduced in sufficiently bulky
dimensions, and not by dribs and drabs as at present.
Geological indications are said to be strongly sug-
gestive of Wailii. Acquaintance with this latter pro-
perty was obtained when Mount Morgan officials were
called in to tell Waihi shareholders the full extent
of their unhappy truth.
* * * *
Adelaide Register publishes its usual
careful forecast of the S.A. wheat harvest. Ihe
verdict is pretty good to a dashed sight better than
was expected about July. Cutting out the extreme
north, the guess is an average of nine bushels, or a
trifle less tnan last year. Total, 20 mill.on bushels,
of which Isi millions will be available for export.
A mere drop in the world’s bucket, but a useful
£3,000,000 coming in to the Wheat State.
C.W.: Can’t undertake to advise that
way. You’ll And a notice of the eo. in B. 19/9/’l2.
A Sydney co. has got hold of a concession
in Timor (Dutch East Indies), and hopes that it will
soon spout petroleum. Eight or 10 men have been
sent north with machinery to probe the thing; and
word came down last week that with the help of a
Dutch gunboat and other Government appliances, the
plant had been safely landed.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*^
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction, should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
In all smithing work high-class iron can be mor>
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. Id., making a total cost of 4s. 10a. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. .4 saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. by 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * *
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year which was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE can be laid down with un-
skilled labor, and requires no caulking. It is, there-
fore, easily the most economical pipe so far as labor
is concerned, and saves money also in transport as
well as in initial cost. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain (N.S.W.), and
Footscray (Vic.).*


Under
Royal
Warranf
A3?JO9£)
<3urH
KHQI
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPACNt
•laifesHdAte*
Reims
World
BRAND
Renowned
STUHR
Stuhr’s Delicacies.
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine,
in tins And glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent :
W. LOVEQROVE, LONDON, E.C.
BUCHANAN’S
Blacß GH White
•
A GRAND SPIRIT
“Black & White ” is indeed a “grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
Brisbane’s Palace Gardens. Governor Mac-
gregor, who is an M.D., and a D.Sc., and an
b .R.G.S., and various other things, and con-
sequently does a bit himself in science, pre-
sides. Mary skips back to Sydney for a
farewell lecture on November 28, and leaves
tor India by the Mongolia two days later.
Bhe will stay near Madras with astronomer
Evershed and his wife. She’s a sister of busy
little Mrs. Todd of this town. As Miss
Mary Orr she went from England with a
Party of tourists to Vadso in Norway, where
she met her future husband during a total
eclipse of the sun in 1896. Owing to the sky
being cloudy, the eclipse was not up to sche-
dule in Vadso, but a romantic twilight floated
round the astronomical courtship. Mary
1 roctor saw the same event in an unclouded
sky. Her camp-stool was perched on Kunnen
I romontory, which laps blue water about 40
miles south of the Lofoden Isles.
A son of Dr. Jenkins of this city was
married the other day to Miss Constance
formerly of Queanbeyan, near the
trickle of the Molonglo River. The groom
is a grandson of the late Dr. (Nepean
lowers) Jenkins, who raised fat cattle on
the broad acres of the once-famous Douglas
I ark estate.
The marriage of little Fanny Powers, some
t me next month, is a sharp reminder that
-Lime stamps forward with seven-leagued
boots. It seems only last week, or there-
aoouts, that she was doing precocious turns
in the Tivoli. Her pleasant little pipe of
song never grew up, however, into the shrill,
parrot-hke squawk which is the usual end
voice that sings too young. Fanny
had the advantage of being mothered bv the
capable Mrs. Rickards, and she is quite
af ter 13 or 14 years behind the
footlights. This is a kind of minor miracle
in these days of grown-up children, who
teach their grandmothers how to boil eves A
complimentary show to Fanny has been
mentioned in vaudeville circles.
The Weihen-Macadam marriage the other
afternoon recalls the name of the late Sir
Theodore Martin, who left his Art Collec-
tion to the British nation, and his gold or
most of it—to nephew James Martin
Macadam, of this town. The bride is n
daughter of this James Macadam who
used to be manager of the Atlas Insurance
office here. He is now what the junior re-
porter would call “a retired gentleman.”
The bridal veil was the film of Limerick
lace so prevalent this year. The gown in-
flicted sharp pangs of envy on one engaged
maiden present. She gnashed her trifle at
the weddmg feast, and informed a friend
that Elsie Barbara’s shimmer of silk and
gossamer drapery, laid out with pearl trim-
mmg, admitted no hope of a cheap imitation.
The groom was Dr. Albert Weihen, whose
parental nest was in Essendon, Victoria.
Chief Inspector Dawson, of the Public In-
struction Department, is billed for departure
on a holiday next March. It is understood
that he will take his carefully-preserved
Scotch accent with him.
Mr. Tourist-Bureau Paterson, of this city
proposes to sit back and take a rest after
f u years in Government harness. He will
leave many to mourn his loss, for he always
handed the searcher for information the best
wares he had in hand.
This comes from “Crab-apple,” but I
wouldn t tell you the postmark on the en-
velope for worlds:—
ou r Club secretary sent in her resignation, and it
was decided to follow the Australian custom of
giving her a send-off.” Up till then the members
had given her 20s. a week, and lots of misery in the
way of cold looks and snubs—to “keep her in her
place. Perhaps the “send-off” custom is a dis-
pensation of Providence for equalising things Any-
way, each member subscribed towards the presenta-
tion, and we were all asked to come to the office to
inspect the goods on an evening when the secretary was
out. Then the trouble began. Some of the members
were grieved that they had not been consulted in thf
purchase, regarding it as “a great slight on the'
earliest members of the club.” Then a nasty crea-
ture said that “while age has its privileges a youne’
member would be more likely to make a suitable
choice for. a girl.” After that members began to
use Christian names and say bitter things about the
passage of time, past scandals, etc., until a new
member suggested that all should prove themselves
sports and settle the vexed question bv a jiu-jitsu
tournament on the tennis court. She meant well by
trying to create a diversion, but a whole freezing
chamber of looks struck her, to say nothing of
scathing comment on vulgarity ; so she was moved to
fade silently away to ponder on her unworthiness. The
gift, it was finally decided, should be left On the office
table with suitable inscription and address, and a
brooding calm is restored, though Sophy, Julia and
Ada have changed their table places. Queer things
we women are. Isn’t a club supposed to promote
sisterly feeling? Yet I write like this.
Mr. Evelyn Wrench (I wonder if he’s
named after the Evelyn who kept a diary?)
is an Englishman who has come here to
organise the Overseas Club. He caused the
Sydney end of that many-legged concern to
writhe with disappointment the other day.
Dropping quietly off the Osterley at Ade-
laide, he trained to Melbourne, and thence
hurried off to Maoriland to begin operations
there. A hundred or so of the Sydney mem-
bers prepared to waltz down to the Osterley
gangway when it hit the local wharf, and
sent a wireless to the vanished Wrench to
say so. At the last moment, the demonstra-
tion had to attack the telephone and shake
it up in hurried words of warning to intend-
ing demonstrators. The craft that is to take
Evelyn Wrench round our harbor, where he
can view the. lurid hoarding and the place
where the bridge ought to be, will get up
steam tor that purpose in a few weeks.
Mrs Weston, author of “Partners,” who
is on the staff of the Adelaide Conserva-
torium, is going to spend the long summer
vacation trotting about this side of Austra-
lia. -the teaching craft, with anything from
six to ten weeks’ holiday in the sultry sea-
son can lean back and sip its salaried leis-
ure from rose tinted glasses.
In Sydney the air resounds with breaking-
up rehearsals. The Girls’ C. of E. Gram-
™ar .Is putting its grey matter into
the Irachinse” of Sophocles, and will de-
claim it in the presence of the chief Angli-
can Legs of Sydney, the Chelmsford lady,
and other solid social guns. Miss Badham,
the principal, who absorbed Greek at the
knee of her learned parent, the late Pro-
fessor Badham, of Sydney Uni., when
other little girls were sucking toffee, will
let the company off lightly with an English
translation.
From “Rosna.” in London
Youthful painter Penleigh Boyd went to Paris,
and was married to Miss Edith Anderson on October
16. Phillips Fox gave the bride away, while various
lords of the Art world looked on unprotestingly.
A day or two earlier the Foxes gave a revel in Miss
Anderson’s honor at their flat in the gay city, and
various Australians meandered thereto, including the
Rupert Bunnys.
Bess Norris, R.M.S. (it doesn’t mean Royal Mail
Steamer), has had a studio built at Chelsea, where
she will henceforth paint the lily. Latest lily
adorned by her clever brush was painted to the order
of Lord Aldenham, who is only one of the clever
Australian’s patrons among the peerage and the dis-
apeerage.
Nicholson’s send two new compositions
by Mrs. Beresford Brodie. “The Courtelyon
Waltz” has a cheerful hop in its rhythm.
“Pensieri Triste,” described as a waltz
serenade, will give the flapper who plays it
a liberal helping of sad thoughts, if she isn’t
mindful of her left hand, at page 4, and
after. Just here, the bass rushes up to meet
the treble with a swish like a pocket edition
of Port Phillip “Rip” on a breezy day. The
composer has the waltz habit, and turns out
three-step music with a satisfactory swing.
Other people have their troubles, too. Sil-
ver-lined Broken Hill is so prosperous and
in such a don’t-care-if-I-work-or-not humor
that it has a strike almost every other day.
Recently it has been having a slaughter-
men’s strike; wherefore this wail from a
Broken Hill exile: “This is now an admir-
able place for a vegetarian-barring that it
is hardly possible to get vegetables.” For
once Sydney can sympathise with the back-
blocks, though even Sydney doesn’t yet know
what it is to pay quite sd. a lb. for potatoes.
Colonel Blennerhassett, G.M.G., a recent
arrival from London, belongs to a brainy,
globe-trotting family, if he’s a relative of the
present baronet of that uncommon name.
Blennerhassett, C.M.G., is on the retired
list, and is looking at our scenery from the
peaceful plank of a pension. Some years
ago a Miss Blennerhassett, who had a
graphic pen, and some training as a nurse,
went out to Mashonaland. It was in the
days when most of the up-country South
African houses were roofed with kerosene
tin, and a string of beads was the native
costume. Her book, “In Mashonaland,”
dealing with the methods of a bishop, and
other matters, made a few explosions in
foreign-missionary circles. Of Umtali and
its pioneer baker she tells a story vouched
for as true, but furiously repudiated in
those parts—by the baker. He was alleged
to have a thirst which occasionally left the
infant settlement without bread. The
climax was the discovery of the sinner tucked
into his oven, fast asleep. The fire had not
been lit. presumably because the worthy
man had put the dough to bed in his own
bunk. Umtali never thoroughly enjoyed its
daily crust till another baker kneaded the
flour.
Elephant Alice, a steady wage-earner in
our old Zoo at Moore Park, is said to have
a fixed aversion to punts, gangways, and
other incidents of travel. Probably she’ll
kick like a suffragette when the time comes
to move her across the Harbor to the new
Zoo at Athol Bight. Mr. Le Soeuf, who
directs the health and recreations of lions,,
tigers, etc.., at the dusty Moore Park
menagerie, is alleged to be looking forward
to the moving of Mrs. Alice as one of the
ticklish tasks of the cave-warming across the
water. Judging by a guarded foreword in
Parliament the other day, “that improve-
ments will be proceeded with as money is
available,” the North Shore bridge may be
built before the lady elephant claims an old-
age pension of fodder in the Zoo that is to
be. Still, they have made a start there, by
burning off the undergrowth and forcing the
snakes to seek other homes —to the great
alarm of some of the Eves of the neighbor-
hood.
Melba talked to the London press, with
many exclamation marks, about a tenor she
had “discovered” in the wait' before a gala
opera-night in Sydney last year. Sid Mac-
donald owns the voice which soared from
the gallery, while the Skylark was overlook-
ing stage-furniture, etc., in the realm below.
Yours as usual,
Vandobian.
Sydney, November 25, 1912.
My Dear Arini.—
Lieut. Rawson, R.N., who married the
moderately-rich heiress Dorothy Mitchell, of
these parts, has settled down in England as
a mixed” farmer. His mixture consists of
Pj!& s > poultry ’ and the domestic virtues.
When the Rawson pair rush up to London
for a spell of theatres and shops, they are
observed by their friends to bill and coo with
old-fashioned ardor. This rubs the edge off
the popular belief that impecunious young
men in the British Navy are after Cash
(feminine), and nothing but Cash.
Another naval frill, who used to be well
known on the Australian station, has taken
to the land in Hants (Bull’s Island). He
finally pulls off his sea-boots in March next,
and retires on a pension. Lieut. George
bteer, lt.N., formerly of the ancient Ringar-
ooma, is the man. He married a pretty
Auckland girl, Agnes Donald, a few years
ago. The latest addition to their family
cares is a cow.
Daily-paper biographers mention that,
after serving as Chief Judge in Equity for
some years, the just-dead William Owen
went over to the Common Law side. There
was some more or less secret history about
that, of course. The Bar was seething in
spots over the appearance of barrister-sons
before their judicial fathers. It wasn’t
always alleged that the fathers favored their
sons, but it was alleged that the public
thought they might incline that way, and
briefs were bestowed with that in mind The
case of the Owens was the one oftenest on
the lips of counsel who thought they might
do better if they had a father on the bench •
and a Parliamentary bill was drafted prac-
tically to bar the son from the parent’s
court. To end the trouble so far as he was
<?i? nC /^ rned ’ f a fher Owen was transferred to
the Common Law side, and son Langer went
on winning cases in Equity.
The Society of Artists show opened with-
out any vice-regal tumult in the middle of
rJ veek L , • Baronet Tom Lees,
* and .his sister, industriously pursued
local Art with the aid of a catalogue. The
lom Hugheses strolled round. Thea Proc-
tor, rather tall and thin, in a white frock,
had a long and flourishing-looking feather
stuck in her pictorial hat. The Fairfaxes
did their duty in spruce array. Major
Lenehan anchored in front of a sample of
Aorman Lindsay’s irrepressible genius. It
happened to be a digression into shipbuild-
ing—a model of Cook’s craft, The Endea-
vour. On an adjacent wall Lionel Lindsay
jr some more of his impressions
Sydney. The Pritchard Bassetts
stuck to their catalogue, and followed Art
to a dead finish in a room which flung a
red curtain in the face of the inquirer. The
heat trickled gently down the brows of the
crowd when it congested in front of Havlev
Lever s “Port of St. Ives.” This is 200
guineas worth of fishing smacks, served up
m virile oil. The National Gallery has
handed in the coin. Artist Griiner sold
his sea-and-sand idylls very well, and
gummed red tags on three pictures before
the opening day fell down into night.
Hardy Wilson’s delicate fantasies in pas-
-? 1 T^ lts „ 1^, 1 V de a charming “Symphony
in Blue. This wears the round, red dab
that spells “Sold.” The subject is the old
bridge across the Hawkesbury, near Wind-
.'VnlA g of th ? s now elderly township
tnlo a f> acent river in 1804, Assistant
burgeon James Thomson said: “On the
Hawkesbury-road there are several farms of
Irp y h,?nf d v, and and brid S es (wooden)
are built where necessary, from an impost
of one shilling per gallon on spirits and six-
E) e fi? er gal l° n on 1 ,y ine this fund also
built the county gaol.
NT s surgeon in the days when
tiiwi i r U L ItS first , taxes was Probably a
kind of light general, who turned his hand
to anything, from sawing bones to oversee-
F g ., stor A es and taxes His modern prototype
is the Australian policeman, whose crowded
S; y «l!fn Pll f ed fl- U ? With £ raffi ? regulations, cen-
sorship of flickergraphs, electoral rolls, and
disorderly tram-tickets on the public high-
ways. In his spare moments he puts his
2^ tton g VeS / m ™ asked hoy-burglars
who fail over the furniture and rouse the
neighborhood, just as an assistant surgeon
used to chop off an arm when he wasn’t
a f °® cial , report of the approximate
number of weevils per ration biscuit
r J l , ildred Bovett, who is Julian Ashton's
right-hand girl, trips off to the Apple Island
twenty guineas richer than she might have
been. The trustees of the National Art
Gallery wrote a cheque for that amount
£ 0 r -f he r l Head 0f a Child”—a faithful por-
trait of the youngster who sat for it, so full
A f ® A a £ the lose the scooped-
busts°° k ° f deatk so Prevalent in memorial
Mrs. Julius Caro is having her nice aD-
pearance painted by Florence Rodway
leteran George Rignold, who still comes
£ a Wee \ has been sitting in
front of the same easel, and the result is
receiving kind regards at the Artists’ show
* AA* Julian Ashton is vigorously stalk-
ing the scenery round the South Coast with
a sketching class. Thirroul is the centre of
operations or was, a week ago. The class
can attack the sea, the surfing maiden, and
the municipal neck-to-knee costume when it
looks towards the sunrise. It can turn its
back on mixed bathing, and dot down its
impressions of mountain scenery without
shifting its easel. The South Coast is also
tamous for its coal, cabbage-tree palms, cow-
bails and strikes.
Science and Art, with a dash of Society,
has been invited to inspect Mr. A. B. Hec-
tor s experiment in “color music.” This
occurs on November 27 in Paling’s concert-
room. Hector has varied the routine of
commercial life for years by wrestling in
his leisure hours with the same problem
that has kept the nose of Prof. Wallace
Rimington to the grindstone in England.
At a dress rehearsal of the fascinating col-
ored chords, electric bulbs were draped in
little paniers of different tinted crinkled
paper. The whole arrangement of lights
connected with a reed organ by electric wires
looks like a hastily-rigged sail on a Chinese
junk. Instead of one sail, the various little
paper petticoats make up the imitation
canvas. A candelabra affair,
about 12tt. above the platform, is the climax.
I suppose, the waves of sound dash against
tins, and then flash faint colored signals
under the draped lights below. That’s as
near as the unscientific eye can get to the
Cause. When the hand at the organ strikes
a harmonious chord, the waves of color re-
spond in the tints that harmonise, as in the
ist faint blush of dawn, when rose and
pearl and amethyst keep tryst with the early
milkman. Colors, that shriek at each other
ash signals of distress when a discord hits
the keys. Doesn’t it sound like the Black
Art served up with a pinch of sulphur?
Postmaster-General Fraser, who hurried
over from Victoria last week, confided that
he was killing three birds with one railway
rfhL § e 0 C a“ e i her ? t 0 attend tbe Pacific
Cable Board s luncheon, to represent the
at the fanetal of the late
Justice O Connor and to breathe hope
"w, ear f ° f desperate persons who
attack the telephone with blue and red lan-
guage. Hope deferred will make the tele-
phone user s_ language bluer and more fierv
hnvi 6 P™ mised automatic ’phone doesn’t
hurry this way soon. Everyone has a dif-
ferent l not ? an of what the thing ought to be.
Possibly it will cut the word “engaged”
down to a minimum, help the recording
angei to tell the truth about the number of
«ql lS n a ? d i £ and v ll compiaints intact to
yp Central, or whatever the official growl-
ery number may be.
The Shakspeare ter-centenary meeting last
week cold-shouldered the proposed statue!
Ihe executive committee, which had been
huggmg this suggestion, may, therefore, turn
its race towards a repertoire theatre. This
project was favored by the last gathering,
with something to help the infant mind as
a supplement. Shakspeare in tabloid form
for junior classes in the State schools ap-
Phii*™ f° a he - Pedagogues present. Governor
Chelmsford, in the chair, was against Will’s
dge Backhouse dropped an ancient
chestnut about Adam into the meeting. Mark
£n ai rV eVIVed -. th - 1S hoary -i° ke ’ but an Ameri-
can tells me it is covered with ivy, and is
regarded in the U.S. as one of the genuine
relics of the Mayflower. Prof. MacCallum
l (f lSe fe ob % * s English literature, went off
in flashes of learned discourse re the foot-
P^ nt ® of Shakspeare on the rock of time
theatre “ 18 W ° rd for a
n , La( W Chelmsford opened a Presbyterian
Church bazaar at Rushcutter’s Bay on
Fr d ay ._ i t b e g an in fine weather, and con
t sam P les trimmed with lightning
and on Saturday. The tents
were fully floral in their decoration, and
the fashiomiMe garb of some of the lightly-
dad ladies present ought to make John
Knox uneasy for the future of the Kirk.
«™?n\ wWch ased tO - be the backbone
of the small bazaar, is passing out under the
thunder of clerical wrath. All kinds of novel-
ties, worth nothing but the tricky name that
recommends them, are chased by ingenious
woman as a first-aid to cash, in place of the
mak I m ?, raffle - Pretty Etbel Watts
turned a brisk penny at a Presbyterian
bazaar last week, by selling small boxes in-
dexed to contain “A sure cure for love.”
filappers and their friends, who rushed this
patent medicine, looked as if a whiff from
the Antarctic had hit them when thev
sampled the contents —a tiny sprig of
thyme. &
The Admiralty lady takes her soft smile
and her summer millinery to Hobart in a
few weeks.
Mrs. Bridges, wife of the local General of
that name, came back from England the
other week. She expects to meet the domes-
tic problem at Dryberra, where it rages with
unabated fury from January to December.
Stargazer Marv Proctor stepped off the
Brisbane express for five minutes or so last
week, then hurried off to Toowoomba, where
they were waiting to hear about “other
worlds than ours.” “Queensland,” said the
pocket astronomer, “treated me royally
Sometimes I met a pessimist who warned me
# 0 to tbis or that town. I went, and
the hall overflowed with support, and—yes
if you put it that way—cash.” ’
The long limb of coincidence brings Miss
Roberts, of Brisbane, into line with Mary
I roctor as an hon. aide-de-business for the
lecture that occurs to-night (Monday) in
that hub of the North. She’s a granddaugh-
ter of a Cambridge chum of the late Richard
A. Proctor, and has helped to work up glit-
tering results for the starry discourse in


•***%£&
JS-S?
*
~s
~mm<
m
r c, C~i~ £*■
II
Cobra,
99
4~~
~l££i
«»SS“
':■' >-•-
-T-i'WiS :./::• s.r
- - •" ; . 1
&z
»tay~
KS&as;;."
-•^"X'Zys
lohe. Boot Polish
“COBRA” now is
Well and strong.
Back him while
The odds are long.
On the track he
Makes a name ;
Also “COBRA”
Shares his fame.
He can ride like
Toddy Sloan
Beats the others,
On his own.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Takes a hand at
Training too.


Deciding' the Xmas Gift.
FARMER’S
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
is brimful of delightful interest to all gift givers.
In its 128 pages are pictured gifts for ladies, gentlemen, fancy or
practical, plain or handsome. Children’s toys, too, play an important
part, many amusing and instructive examples being featured.
In short, this catalogue contains all information gift givers require
Write for it immediately, and you will then be able to select from a
particularly varied assortment. Our Catalogue practically places our
stocks at your doors. '
POST FREE TO COUNTRY PATRONS.
Farmer’s Pay Carriage on Fancy Goods to any part of Australia.
On China, Glass, I oys, etc., we pay carriage to the extent
of 5 per cent, (or 1/- in the £) of the amount of purchase.
FARMER’S SYDNEY.
DUNLOP
GARDEN HOSE
Lasts for Years and
does not kink or burst
OBTAINABLE ALL STOREKEEPERS.
ACCEPT.ONLY “DUNLOP” BRANDS.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. All States and N.Z.
fen <
✓2A
*■ N rr
GB
/s
1
USE
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
It pays—their strength and quality
ensures a big mileage, and every
SZitisfsiCtion Obtainable all Garages, but
you get “DUNLOPS."
a
Obtainable
all
Boot
store 3
Specify
"Dunlop
Brand''
DUNLOP
RUBBER
Ensure
Easy A
Comfortable
Walking.
i Dunlop Rubber Co.-all States &NZ
DUNLOP
GOLFBAUS
ALWAYS GIVE 3ATI3FACTION/
GOLFISTS'say that the
“ Dunlop ” plays longer
and better than any other
ball procurable.
2'6\
EACH I
Obtainable from all
PROFESSIONALS and
SPORTS DEPOTS at..„
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE UST.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. |
Melbourne, Sydney.
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
Weillng-ton, Christchurch
DUNLOP
MINING bo*~
ENGINEERING Goods
Stand alone for
Quality and Price.
EVERY CLASS OF RUBBER GOODS
STOCKED OR MADE TO ORDER.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne. Sydney.,
Perth. Brisbane, Wellington, Christchurch^
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 25 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Saturday saw the official opening of the
season for half a dozen of the .yacht clubs.
The sociable Brighton Club invited the sex
to come and look at the first spreading of
the white wings; but very few turned up,
the _ weather being atrociously bad. And
feminine feathers have already had as much
rain as they can stand. The wind blew
viciously from two quarters and lashed the
bay to fury. The yachts, which seem to be
thoroughly feminine things, hugged the land
and butted defiantly through the seas that
dealt them resounding slaps on the —the —
what do they call the sharp end of the boat
that goes first?
The Victorian Festival Choir, which used
to watch poor Freddie Beard with breathless
attention, and subside at the wave of his
fingers, is again heard in the land. On
Saturday afternoon, with the skilled aid of
the Professional Orchestra, it indulged in a
crowded Town Hall concert. The Denmans
willingly accorded their patronage, but were
unavoidably absent in person, there being a
golden key to turn in the cause of charity,
and a motor-meet to attend in the interest of
petrol. Lady Fuller was present at the
music-making, under a full spread of
feathers. She was accompanied by the
Madden lady and Waxellency John, who
blissfully closed his eyes during the sooth-
ing selections. (I hear that sleeping in time
to music is excellent for the moustache.)
Other listeners were the Pinschofs, Dr.
Eccles and his daughter, handsome medico
Hamilton Russell, and the Reid girls. Con-
ductor Felix Cade, who has taken up the
baton dropped by Beard, is a soulful-looking
young man, with the long hair and dreamy
expression that are the recognised trade-
marks of musical genius.
At the bidding of president Mrs. Mon-
tague Cohen, a few hundred females endeav-
ored to squeeze themselves into the Austral
Salon for an afternoon tea-taking flavored
with politics, the East Melbourne branch of
the Women’s Fashionable League being re-
sponsible for the uneatable part of the show.
After song, story and chatter, Dr. Carty
Salmon took the floor and denounced (I
think that’s the right word) the Labor
party, as a preliminary to patting the sex
on the back, and remarking that Parliament
needed her, and that she would shine in poli-
tics —as though any woman wants to shine.
I can see the Hon. Member for Hairpin
furiously powdering her nose at the very
suggestion. Mrs. I. H. Moss, decorated with
the forbidden osprey, arose later and said
that the right way to show their gratitude
for all Carty’s compliments was to convert
him into a nice Liberal senator at the very
first opportunity. This splendid sentiment
was heartily seconded. The audience, wear-
ing mostly a non-committal or dazed expres-
sion, then took tea and buns, and talked
of really important matters like hats and
Julius Knight.
The bill for the wife’s ruined Cup dresses
has not worried the country racegoer par-
ticularly, for the rain that spoilt the chiffons
fell like many blessings on the wheatfields
and grazing paddocks. A large flock of city
women,. who have. bill-stung husbands mak-
ing their lives miserable, are wishing they
had married men to whom rain at the right
moment means more than one Piastre.
Sydneysiders who came for the Cup com-
plain that they were badly catered for as
regards theatrical shows. They found no-
thing that was fresh to them, all available
shows having been done to the last shilling
in the Ma State capital. Givers of theatre
parties regarded it as a tragedy.
The march of the cadets through Mel-
bourne has had a good effect on the mothers
of nice boys. Hitherto a certain type of
doting mamma has been inclined to wail
over Horace or Reginald as “conscripts.”
But the parade has put an end to all that
nonsense, and the praise bestowed on the
lads by all sorts of notabilities has made
mamma preen herself in the public eye as
the mother of one or more braves.
Talking of the cadet parade the other Sat-
urday, the Indian turban of Major Griffiths
was a trifle out of the picture. I had an
idea that Indian dress was only supposed to
be worn when officers were on duty with
their colored subordinates. Previous Indian
soldier men on exchange duty have cer-
tainly left their Asiatic haberdashery behind
them. Anyway, the turban looked ridiculous
in a plain khaki atmosphere, on an essenti-
ally White Australian occasion.
Among the Cup trippers who returned to
their headquarters last week, were the Joe
Studholmes, who were the guests of the Fred
Paynes. The George Rhodes trio also waved
good-bye as the Maoriland steamer drew
out. The tall, fair daughter was a gracious
sight at some of the Very Best frivols of the
season.
With vice-royalty graciously spectating,
the Repertory Theatre will produce Bernard
Shaw’s “Man and Superman” on Friday and
Saturday, December 6 and 7. Galsworthy’s
“The Pigeon” follows on December 10, with
“The Dark Lady of the Sonnets” as after-
piece. The various Governors and their
people are under engagement to fill the
padded chairs each evening in the Athen-
aeum Hall. But, even if they don’t turn
up, the show will go on.
Julius Knight walked through this city
last week, on his way to Sydney. He took
afternoon tea in a blue coat with a decided
waist and a sort of pleated outstanding skirt.
He made a splendid “entry,” and literally
turned every head, all pretence of feeding
being entirely suspended for lmin. 27fsec.
Beatrice Holloway, of the “Get-Rich-
Quick-Wallingford” co., who has taken over
the role of the stenographer from the sick
Miss Cohan, talks in the correct American
manner. When she drawls, “I came to see
Mister Wall-ing-ford, not your mommer!”
she twangs as though she were born to it.
She has also learned to wear her “shirt
waists” with the cute flat back distinctive
of the smart American girl. Eva Bennett,
as Dorothy Welles, imitates Mrs. Hamlet
B. Irving, or perhaps it is the unknown
upon whom Mrs. Irving modelled her un-
attractive style. At any rate, the pretty
Bennett girl forgets the affectation now
and then, and is wholly charming.
Helped by the Catholic Ladies’ College,
Miss Eileen O’Keefe gave a piano recital
last Thursday. The pianist, a dainty spec-
tacle in white silk, began with a sonata. She
played 20 bars well, then threw up her
hands and rushed from the platform in a
panic. The nuns tactfully soothed her and
gently pushed her back, flushed and misty-
eyed, to the instrument, where she resumed
and battled to the same point—and then
there was another breakaway. Tenor Kirby
stepped into the breach, and trolled some
beautiful extracts from Puccini. Then the
nervous young pianist came out for a third
try, and played brilliantly in several styles,
as well as accompanying violinist Alberto
Zelman. Mrs. Brennan decorated the front
row in a white satin gown. Mrs. McAdam
was another enthusiastic applauder. Some
Frank Madden girls provided a row of
dimples. Miss Lockington added a gorgeous
yellow and gold dress to the reserved seats •
and some more of the Very Best helped to
give the schoolroom an atmosphere of com-
paratively boundless wealth and suburban
splendor.
A wedge of English wedding cake arrived
last week from Mr. and Mrs. Alfred J.
Berridge, of Widdenham-road, Holloway
) • The new Mrs. is Hilda Mulligan,
ot Sydney, whose dramatic soprano voice
has been scoring torrents of applause in the
far north land. Her latest engagement was
as pnma donna with a Carl Rosa company.
At a recent concert appearance in Lon-
don, she included a queen or two amongst
her audience. However, you must not think
any the worse of her for that; rovalty is the
sort of trouble that can only be kept off by
threats. There has been music in Hilda’s
family for generations. Wallace, the creator
ot Mantana,” was her great-grand uncle,
or something equally remote.
Ola Jane Humphrey, who was lately re-
ported to be still unseparated from the
cullud gentleman she t -ok for better or much
worse, now talks of opening an Anglo-
lankee theatre in Paris. If the theatre
yarn is true, it suggests either that Princess
O. Jane is not overburdened with the crown
jewels, or that she has not been able to cure
herself of the limelight habit. Perhaps if
is a little of both.
Mylie Egan, the Bendigo soprano, has an
angel smile that should help her on her
musical way through life. A concert, given
last week under the patronage of the Gaud
Mayoral Ilennessys, brought in a tidy sum
for the fund that is to support Mylie during
her course of foreign study.
Nell Finnis, grown very plump, and wear-
mg a, brief tight skirt and an engaging
smile, is bouncing round this city. She is
on her way to South Africa and matrimony.
Captain Goodall Madden, the only son in
the well-daughtered family of the be'knighted
h rank Madden, is engaged to Mary Melba
Clarke, daughter of Mrs. McKellar Clarke
of Sydney. And Frank Tait, the chubby
youngest brother of the J. and N. firm, is
contemplating a dive into matrimony with
Ins Barnard, a nice, brown-eyed girl, niece
and adopted daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Peter
Lynch, of Carlton.
More sorrow for marriageable maidens
hereabouts. A Sydney heiress has just cap-
fyW,, one the Drake’s few remaining
eligibles. According to present advices, the
mairiage will transpire when the large, grey
mass of metal returns from Maoriland just
before Christmas.
Miss Ruby Rees, a daughter of that clever
lawyer, the late David Rees, has become the
wife of solicitor Harvey Templeton. The
pair were quietly wedded in the drawing-
room at Harlech, Mrs. Rees handing over
the silk-clad bride to the legal bridegroom,
lhe lady of. the white veil is a black-eyed
University girl, with many scholastic honors
to her credit. Younger sister Bertha, who
played the. part of bridesmaid in the expen-
sive simplicity of white muslin, is also let-
tered with Science degrees, and instructs
large, fierce men until they feel small and
meek, and are ready to fling themselves at
her feet.
Mrs. Robert Harper, always busy in well-
doing, seems to be developing her hobby for
musical gatherings. The Women’s Choir
will invade Myoora on Saturday next, and
lift up its voice in the old-fashioned ele-
gance of the Harper home. A selection of
the Very Nicest People will supply the beau-
tifully modulated applause.
Mrs. A. M. Macleod, of Talisker station—
a society outpost on Merino Downs, Western
District —lately gave a debutante dance for
her budding daughter. The occasion was
made historic by the presence of the Laid-
laws, Gardiners, Winter-Cookes and Offi-
cers—people whose names have been stamned
into the soil of the Western District by the
hoofs of coin-making animals.
The present trade-mark of the first-line
hostess is the plate of bacon and eggs which
is presented to guests about an hour after
the quail and chicken supper. The fashion
was started in Melbourne by the Hon. Percy
Mellusson (“Champagne Charlie”), a guest
of the Dudleys. He gave a vast ball to
advertise the wine firm whose ambassador he
was, and the morning meal followed. There
are points about this innovation. The late
reveller, having absorbed his early break-
fast, is then able to make the homeward
journey in comfort and tumble into bed to
await the drone of the luncheon gong, Social
life, when you come to examine it, consists
mainly of meals and intervals of waiting
for them.
Some of the Very Best People moaned
bitterly when they discovered that Mrs. Dyce
Murphy’s dance had been merrily hopped
what time they had spent a dull evening
and departed morosely, candle in hand, to
sleep the sleep of the disappointed. There
was a mistaken belief that the party had
been called off on account of the hostess
being immured in her room. Certainly the
lady herself was invalided; but she reso-
lutely refused to postpone the revel on
account of her own illness. So a number of
people yawned their heads off at home, and
were very wild next morning when they
found they had indulged themselves need-
lessly in healthy sleep.
Providing the long-threatened European
upheaval has not broken out by the day of
sailing, Mrs. Hussey Chomley will next-
month climb aboard an outward-bound mail-
boat. The lady (who, by the way,
is a cousin of Sydney’s B. R. Wise.
K.C.) has developed into a confirmed
gadder, and travels so often between
Australia and England that she may be said
to just bounce her boxes at the terminal
port, ere casting them aboard once more.
When over the horizon, she shelters for weeks
at a time with the Tranby-Croft Wilsons, of
baccarat fame. A Baird sister, also an habi-
tual traveller, will be her companion on the
voyage.
When the George Chirnside matron re-
moved her best bonnet and revealed the fact
that her delicately golden locks had greyed
completely during her five years’ absence,
her friends nearly fainted with surprise. The
whitewashed feet of the flying years work
these transformations quicklv.
The buxom Henry Butler widow is plan-
ning yet another foreign trip for the other
side of Christmas. She will take son Jack
as chaperone.
President J. M. Davies, of the Legislative
Council, and his wife have sent out cards
for a party, on December 2, in State Par-
liament House. The heavyweight function
is being held later than usual; so perhaps
the Exhibition draughts that usually dis-
tribute influenza will merely be harmless and
welcome zephyrs caressing the brow and
back hair of the sedate guest.
The annual corroboree that Mrs. Green
and daughter Florrie give to their pupils at
the Town Hall is described on the invitation
cards this time as a Juvenile Floral Fancy
Dress Ball and Entertainment. Monday,
December 2-—the Green displays are always
fixed for a Monday—is the date, and the
first young legs will be shaken at 7 o’clock,
as usual. The G.-G’s., the Maddens, the
Mayoralties, etc., have promised to be there,
and a rush for balcony seqts is assured. Four
charities are interested in the profits of this
prettiest of Town Hall shows.
Mrs. Church, wife of a Westralian squat-
ter, is at present in Melbourne thoroughly
enjoying the shops and the company of her
kind. When resident on her far-back sta-
tion she never sees a white woman outside
her own household. Recently the lonesome
one imported a niece to bear her company.
The niece is a Londoner, and used to seeing
people in bulk; yet she finds the backblock
life fascinating.
Bernard’s gave a special private view of
etchings last Friday, by way of opening an
exhibition that is to last a fortnight. Some
original French pictures in color are de-
lightful. Victor Cobb, a Victorian, has a
corner all to himself. His work would ap-
peal to a home-sick Victorian. There are
scenes round the shipping part of the Yarra,
showing bridges and masts against the sky ;
bits of country road, including a stiff slope
on the Black Spur, with giant gums on
guard ; and tranquil scraps from the Botani-
cal Gardens.
A lot of people grieved when the news got
round last week that Dr. Tremearne had
died at Mandeville Hall, after a long ill-
ness. The stout little man had the knack
of doing kind things and making friends.
Keith Ollivier, one of the visiting tennis
champions, comes from Maoriland, and be-
longs to a keen sporting family. His father
is well known in the Maoriland cricketing
world. Ollivier, jun., being a comely youth,
competes with Lowe, the tall Englishman,
for the lady-killing championship. Gossip
says of the willowy Lowe that his waltzing
is even more divine than his tennising.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Semaphore anchorage appears to be accursed
of- Fate. The Norma recently came to grief there for
no obvious reason, incidentally involving two other
ships in the trouble; and now the Port lighthouse
has disappeared, and drowned its two keepers, and
rendered the signal-man useless from “shock.” The
good ship Dimsdale collided with the lighthouse, and
the Dimsdale won easily on a knock-out. By the
way, a few days previously an expert report had
cited the expensive light as unnecessary. Seldom
does Providence endorse a recommendation of the
sort so speedily.
The Gordon MacFarlanes are back from England,
and so are the Leslie Taylors. Mrs. George Brookman
is planning another trip to England early in the
New Year. Mrs. Gordon Ayers is thinking of begin-
ning her return voyage, but it will be a lengthy
business, with a rest by the way in India. Miss
Pudney, who was in Adelaide a year or so ago, is
making the trip with her.
Captain John Bruce is re-visiting Adelaide after
an absence of 32 years. The captain and his father
steered boats, with wool and passengers aboard,
between 1 ort Adelaide and London in the wayback
days when the trip took about three months. He
, , ls daughter with him, and they are the guests
ot Mr. 1. W. Bullock at Prospect. Mrs. Bruce war
a * of the late George French Angas.
Mr. I. S. Reed, one of our most esteemed nona-
genarians, was knocked down by a careless vehicle
in Ivmg William-street a few weeks ago. He was
broken, but not fatally, by any means. In fact, he
is now back at the Royal Geographical Society’s
rooms with his arm in a sling. His fractured collar-
bone is reported to be setting nicely.
While on the subject of Reeds, I may mention
that G.L., who is secretary to the police department,
celebrated his jubilee as a public servant t’other
day. He first joined the mounted troops at the age
of 17, when the late Major Warburton was Commis-
sioner.
J. J. Breaker, another “Buffalo” pioneer, died on
Thursday. He was eight years old when he landed
and helped his father to rig up a blanket tent on the
Sturt. He is also alleged to have helped to make
the first set of harness ever seen in S. Australia.
It was for Governor Hindmarsh’s mules. By the
way, Mr. Breaker disputed that the present wor-
shipped gumtree is the authentic tree. He insisted
that the proclamation was read about 80 yards nearer
the shore.
Mayoress Pearce, of Glenelg, invited most of the
suburb to tea with; her at Claremont on Saturday.
But the day was vile. This has been the case for
several Saturdays past, and all hands, from race-
goers to promoters of Methody bazaars, are com-
plaining. As ,to the women! How would you feel,
my dear, if you couldn’t make up your mind whether
to wear chiffon or blanketing? There is an uneasv
suspicion locally that the Seventh Day Adventists
have got the Clerk of the Weather squared to pre-
vent Sabbath-breaking.
Yours affectionately,
Johanna.


tag
gg|
’zmat
mm
H
m
Jo I IM
m
' i j
r. *■,
vV... ■
*'■*% Nj ssi^ n
*«■:
:$ vK:o * o*
’ W /
m
- ’Vfl%
V ■'*-
te lssasSP
* , < 'Vj**?* 4s
f.
c
. . ‘ s% ' :
"ft- »v.*
Sr mi
o£N >
""
'
Sw.-sis:
MNs
Y
QKV j
iff
* <*> v
WJSSftSt nro
FPfpjjpi
'. ; 9-jwiWMi. '**.
\ 'i , w
m§
-.
• iv
« ! >g
; .
f •■
■
,
EM
>
'■
r
■
of‘ §&%£
' m
\
V*
##%' !i
I
s- m
m
i M &
h
fy-d
§0
' -
s;s*-PS
mi
mm
.
is
m
; ?
St
J Sis
*O-'
J
\ w
\ l*
3
* V
f i
*
* vs
P
I
* :
»
sit i
m . ■ i
i
SI3
• •
111
%
‘j*
a;^
■bHiX
i;.•- -V-'
am
W-W
DRY
Schweppes Lemon Squash
PREPARED , EXCLUSIVELY FROM FRESH LEMONS.
Schweppes’ Lemon Squash contains nearly 50 per cent, more juice than any other Squash on the Market.


ASK . FOR
♦ * ♦
FRANZ JOSEF
LAGER BEER.
HA C KERB RA U
DARK EAGER.
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the r>ain and stiffness, and you will
forget all about it. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. ' Obtain-
able everywhere.*
SAVE STOCK and MONEY
by castra t i n g ■
with the im-
proved instru-
ment—
DENVER’S
EMASCULATOR.
Its pri n c i pi e
absolutely pre-
KICKED ON THE KNEE.
When preparing his horses to carry people to the
Bulls races, Mr. Duncan H. Stevens, of South Street,
Feilding (N.Z.), was kicked on the knee "by one of
his animals, and could not stand for hours. He
states: “I immediately applied Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm, with wonderful results, for the next day I was
quite recovered. Am confident that I would have
been unfitted for work only for this wonderful lini-
ment. lam only too pleased to make this statement,
for I know that those who work round horses are
only too pleased to hear of such a valuable liniment
as Chamberlain’s Pain Balm."*
Write for
it to-day.
vents loss of
stock through hemorrhage.
45/
PERFECT FOR HORSES, BULLS or RAMS.
Improved Mouth Gags, Cutters,
Drenching Bits, Rasps, Ball Guns, etc.
Write for Price List.
DENYER BROS.,
281 Csorgre Street (opp.
llunter St.), SYDNEY.
ON THE FILE.
[For The Bulletin.]
All references to the defence matters of the Com-
monwealth are systematically filed. I thought I knew
a little about our navy, but the amount of intimate
information which I heard in Japan about our naval
preparations was an eye-opener.— Major Crouch.
They’ve a chart of Barron Valley, of our harbors
they’ve a tally,
And a map of North Australia where the railways
do not go;
They’ve the depth of ev’ry river, and ’twould almost
make you shiver
Could you see the coast-line tracings that they stock
in Tokio ;
For the stuff’s already on the file,
The papers and statistics in a pile ;
And when the moment comes with the beating of the
drums,
It’s all there ‘Waiting on the File!
Ev’ry rock about the Leeuwin, every reef that threat-
ens ruin
To the stranger who is heedless doth the little
heathen know;
And the tiny Torres islands and the rugged Northern
highlands—
All are noted down, in detail, where the archives
stand a-row.
It’s all there waiting on the file,
The length and breadth of every torrid isle;
The lands that we inhabit, and the lands we give the
rabbit —
It’s all there Waiting on the File!
They’ve the size of ev’ry city and the number (more’s
the pity)
Of our new mosquito navy and its tiny personnel;
While the nature of our forces, with the tale of guns
and horses,
Is in no wise kept a secret, so the smiling Nippers
tell.
It’s all there waiting on the file,
Collected 1 y the brown and versatile ;
And the day that Fortune beckons, so the Asian slyly
reckons,
Our Fate’s there Waiting on the File !
And we stand an idle nation, seeing not the least
occasion
That the manhood of the country should get ready
with the gun ;
Though a warning grim and ample shrieks aloud the
late example
Of the Turk (who loafed as we do) —and he's
nearly down and done.
The foeman had him on the file,
His highways and his byways every mile;
His want of due provision and his faulty ammuni-
tion—-
’Twas all there waiting on the file ;
And, away in Tokio, there’s a cunning little foe,
Who’s got us Waiting on the File!
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
Commonwealth Attorney-General Hughes,
introducing the Referenda Bills, declared
that there was not one of the six proposals
which one or more of the members of the
Opposition had not subscribed to, and that
every one of the powers asked for is held by
the Canadian and South African Federal
Parliaments and the Australian State Par-
liaments. In spite of which, Deakin announced
his opposition, inferentially holding that as
legislators he and his colleagues in the Com-
monwealth Parliament are quite inferior
animals compared with either a State
M.L.A. or a Canadian or Boer Federal
member.
Thirty minutes in N. S. Wales Assembly:
Mr. Bruntnell (5.22 p.m.) : You, sir (the Speaker),
are stifling the truth.
The Speaker: I direct the Sergeant-at-Arms to
remove the hon. member for being grossly disorderly.
Mr. Cohen (5.28) :
The Speaker: The hon. member is grossly out of
order. He has kept up a continuous interruption of
the business of the House. Sergeant, remove the
hon. member.
Mr. Levy (5.50) : Members have been subjected
to insults and humiliations night after night and
day after day. The House will be covering itself
with disgrace if it passes the motion.
The Speaker: Order. The hon. member is grossly
out of order. Sergeant, remove the hon. member.
Mr. Fallack (5.53) : During the time you, sir
(the Speaker), have occupied your present position,
to my mind, you hive irritated hon. members.
The Speaker: Order. The hon. member is grossly
out of order. Under Standing Order 392 I call on
the Sergeant to remove the hon. member.
Then Moxham was pushed into the back
paddock; but when Holman was told to
subside, the Government sat down and began
to think whether its Speaker had quite as
much tact as the job called for.
The N.S.W. Tory-larrikin party in the
Assembly was a disappointed lot last week
when the inevitable disagreement between
the Government and Speaker Willis fizzled
out. Up to the last there was an idea that
Willis would resign and, in the subsequent
battle round the Chair, the Government
would be defeated. When it was clear that
nothing of the kind was to happen, Wood,
who is leading the Opposition until Snarls
Gregory Wade returns from Japan, or until
that aged political chestnut, William McMil-
lan, takes over the leadership, complained
bitterly that the Government had not played
the game in accordance with expectations—-
Wood’s expectations. Said he :
I am satisfied his (the Premier’s) position must
be disappointing to that section of the public which
expected that representative government and Parlia-
ment generally were to be put in their proper posi-
tions.
Representative government, of course,
meaning Wade, Wood, Twaddell, Dreary
Lee, etc., and Parliament generally mean-
ing Col. Onslow, etc. The disappointed
section of the public that expected these to
be put in their improper place is mentioned
in the Bible in conjunction with a camel
and the eye of a needle.
The N.S.W. Socialist Party, which has
hitherto made a very poor showing in oppo-
sition to the Labor party, is anticipating a
glorious time at the next State elections,
and expects to actually capture a seat or scl
As many disaffected Laborites have crossed
over, the Socialist anticipations may not be
so hopelessly out as they have been in the
past.
A HERO ON THE FISCAL SEAS.
Despite the recent remarks of certain unemployed
union workers concerning inadequate Protection,
Labor Minister Tudor still remains unwilling to em-
bark on a revision of the tariff.
Men in Trouble: "Help! Help!.... A
boat! ! ”
Man at Wheel (s.s. Commonwealth): "Sorry,
mates —you can't expect me to risk me own
life ! ”
“H.” : The most likely cause of
a split in the State Labor party is
not the perfidy of members with
regard to the Labor platform, but
the plethora of candidates for
selection, and the fact that pretty
nearly every branch of the P.L.L.
is a hot-bed of intrigue. Crimes
that have nothing to do with poli-
tics are urged against sitting mem-
bers. One is denounced because
he is a Wowser, another because
he isn’t. One should be turned
down because he is a Wesleyan,
another because he is a Cala-
tliumpian. Bunkum, who wants
the selection, has the support of
the Narks Union, and whispers
that the sitting member is no good
because of his attitude on the post-
leaners’ strike. Boose, who is sure
of the vote of Bung, denounces him
because he is suspected of a lean-
ing towards State control of liquor.
Blither mentions that a member
for the district should have a pri-
vate record that is above suspicion,
and leaves it at that and a wink.
Yet Bunkum, Boose and Blither
haven’t as much principle among
them as would fit out a second-
class two-up joint. What wonder
that the member who has tried to
do his best for his cause and dis-
trict thinks about breaking things?
It is alleged that 228,000 men have signed
the Ulster Covenant. The number is pretty
big, representing about half the male Pro-
testant population of the northern province.
Unfortunately, it somehow recalls that in
1848 the Chartists attempted to present a
petition alleged to be signed by 6,000,000
Englishmen—including six separate and dis-
tinct Dukes of Wellington.
PARTY CHESS.
Business was again held up during a long period of personal piques, stonewalling and counter-tactics
on the part of both sides in the Federal Parliament. —News item.
Australia: “ Well, Pm jiggered! Here am 1 paying good money to travel along certain
lines in a stipulated direction, while you ”
The Engine’s Crew: “ Don't go pop, Mister. How can we know who's to do the driving
unless we play these games out ? ”
William McMillan, the “heaven-born
financier” whom Parkes dug out of the
McArthur warehouse long ago and made
Treasurer, is returning to State politics. This
apparently means that McMillan’s ancient
firm has got out of the most unpleasant pot
of soup it fell into six or seven years ago.
According to the political faith of McMillan,
his business should be more busted than ever,
seeing that it has been staggering under Pro-
tection and the curse of two Labor Govern-
ments ; but McArthur’s isn’t the only one
that has belied all McMillan’s prophecies
and put itself on its feet when it ought, ac-
cording to the rules, to be lying six feet
underground in its coffin.
Miss Vida Goldstein has discovered nine
Chinese reasons why she should be returned
to the Federal Parliament next time she
flings her hat into the arena. Female suffrage
has already resulted in the election of nine
women in the Canton Legislature, she says;
and on the strength of this alleged victory
for the Sex, the W.P.A. has passed a resolu-
tion of hope that “laggard England will soon
catch up with progressive China in intelli-
gence and justice.” Still, the news from
China has a fly in its ointment for the
W.P.A.: the husbands of the married-lady
members have decided to blot themselves out
of recognition whilst their wives are legislat-
ing, wherefore each of the distinguished nine
, is known as “Miss”- —the brand of the female
who hasn’t captured a husband, which is
even a more woeful thing in China than it
is in Caucasian parts.
The Cost of Living Commission in Maori-
land found ample evidence of combines and
monopolies in that country. The report set
out that —-
Maoriland is in special danger of being exploited
by combinations fixing selling prices, imposing pen-
alties on traders and boycotting independent traders.
Afloat: —
That a monopoly exists in the carriage by sea of
coal from the West Coast ports is undoubted... .It is
a fair deduction to draw that competition, being
successfully stifled in the carriage of coal, there is
constant danger that the public will be charged a
higher rate of freight than the service is legitimately
worth. Even if the excess were only small, say Is.
a ton, this would mean an annual contribution of at
least £40,000 that the users of coal would pay into
the coffers of the shipping monopoly.
And ashore: —
The Sugar Co. has accorded preferential buying
conditions to the Merchants’ Association, and to
favored firms who buy through them. .. .Could outside
traders buy on the same terms as these favored in-
dividuals, the price of sugar would probably be
materially reduced to the public The match in-
dustry is a monopoly, a combine and a trust.
The Commission recommended an extension
of the Commercial Trusts Act. On the
other hand, Attorney-General Hughes re-
commends Australia to arm itself with
power to take over harmful combinations;
and in doing so Hughes is talking by the
book of the United States, which is packed
from cover to cover with Trust Repression
Acts that fail to repress anything worth
tuppence.
HER INFALLIBLE METHOD.
That they should now venture to ask for a re-
versed vote on proposals so emphatically turned
down last year, and after repeated defeats ontherwise,
shows either a marvellous belief in themselves, or as
wonderful a contempt for the people of the Com-
monwealth.-—S. M. Herald, scornfully, on Labor’s
new referendum.
The Old Lady (half amused, half angry):
'‘''The hidea uv them darih ’ f think they
can manage this hanimal better ’« I have!
Prepost rous ! ”
John Downer, the tough old Federalist
and ex-Senator of S. Aus., let loose on the'
gods of the Federal Liberal party last week.
He denounced his old Protectionist colleague
Deakin as an opportunist and time-server,
constant to no person or principle; and he
publicly thanked God that, with all his sins,
he was not like the gentleman whom he and
the just dead O’Connor helped to draft the
Federal Constitution. As for Cook —well,
John Downer had never spoken to the
“man,” and never would if he could help it.


|| m New'Grade SfJ
Cheaper Petrol
; : ;lj Has:; been added to our -..list;: of.
High Grade Petroleum
!;||ou have three gradesfof
p Pratt’s Sprite to cfciodsb froin:; ;
••“Prates Yellow Label ”f- | ;
A.Superfine odorless, light spirit* .v
“ Pratt*# Red Label
A high grade highly deodorised benzine o||||
HI g#lii|wer. 11-l'i ii
■ “ PrattV^^faxibuiUl
A cheaper Spirit for business Cars or Motor.::
Waggons. Powerfpl|thd economical 1 Hd* /•.
cheaper.; If | •.-!
If yourffGarage does not-stock, order direct
Oil |6o. Pty* Ltd.
Books on Motor Boats.
If you need a good book on any special Technical Subject,
write us at once stating your purpose, and we will
gladly tell you the name and price of the latest
available book.
Open Friday Evening till 10 p.m.
HOW TO BUILD A 32-FOOT CRUISING LAUNCH.
By Norman Skene 5/. 3d.
MOTOR BOATS, a thoroughly scientific discussion of
their design, construction, and operation. By
Durand. 80 illustrations 7/0 3d.
MOTOR BOATS: CONSTRUCTION & OPERATION.
It provides a compendious guide to the design,
construction, installation and operation of Marine
Motors, and to the design and construction of
Motor Boats. By Thos. H. Russell, M.E., 1912.. 5/. 3d.
GAS ENGINES AND LAUNCHES, their principles,
types and management. By F. li. Grain. A com-
plete and practical manual 6/6 2d.
ALBUM OF DESIGNS FOR BOATS, LAUNCHES
AND YACHTS. By Fred. Martin. Including 18-
page Supplement of Modern Yacht Designs 5/- 2d.
MOTORBOAT HANDBOOK (American). Vol. 11. .. 5/- 2d.
» „ „ Vol. 111... 5/- 2d.
Vol. 1V... 5/- 2d.
NINE MOTOR BOATS, and How to Build Them. A
Book of complete Building Plans and Instruction.. 5/. 2d.
BOAT-BUILDING AND BOATING. By Beard. For
men and boys who want to make something with
which they may navigate the waters of ponds, lakes
or streams 3/6 3d.
WEATHER SIGNS, AND HOW TO READ THEM,
for use at sea 2/6 2d.
CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS. By Sommerfeldt. .. . 1/6 2d.
YACHTING AND CRUISING, FOR AMATEURS.
By Frank Cowper g/_ 3(J #
PRACTICAL BOAT SAILING, for Amateurs. Bv
G. C. Davies 5/6 36.
MODEL YACHTS AND BOATS, their designing,
making and sailing. By Grosvenor 4/6 3d.
KNOTS, TIES, AND SPICES. By Tom Burgess 1/. 2d!
MOTOR BOATS, simply explained 1/3 2d.
MARINE OIL ENGINE HANDBOOK 1/3 2d!
A TEXT-BOOK OF MARINE MOTORS. By Capt.
du Boulay. 12/6, reduced to". 8/6 4d.
SAILING, FOR AMATEURS. By Heather 1/3 2d!
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPARTMENT,
476 George Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS).
Tropical Suits
Are an absolute necessity for
Coolness and Comfort during
the Sweltering days of the
Australian Summer—The Style
shewn—in thoroughly shrunk
White Duck or Drill—can be
worn without underwear be-
yond a light singlet—Smartly
Cut—Strongly Finished—With
Detachable Buttons
■
PI
tL
X.
0
These may be had in the Style here shewn (buttoning up to neck), or with ordinary
Step Collar. Coats have detachable Buttons. All materials are thoroughly shrunken,
and are of guaranteed quality.
White Duck or Drill Evening Suits 27/6
3 Garment—Vest Cut Low—Coat with Plain or “Patrol” Back.
Flannel Two-Garment Suits (Plain or Striped Greys) 25 /-
Tussorette Three-Garment Suits .. 30 /-
Tussore Silk Two-Garment Suits .. 42 /-
Assam Silk Three-Garment .. 63 /-
Hand Tailored all through—Beautifully Cut and Finely Finished
Lincoln Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Mail-Order
Outfitters.
THE IDEAL
XMAS GIFT!!
i
13
c?
No. 1 Handle. No. 3 Delivery Spool. No. 8 Gate (the Lamphouse is on the Gate)
No. 12 Receiving Spool. Nos. 13 and 15 Lamphouse. No. 14 Lens. No. 16 Magneto.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
The Pathehome Cinematograph is the ideal Christmas Gift. It pleases
amuses and benefits the whole family—and the friends of the family. It is
simple and easily worked ; it makes its own light, so can be used anywhere
m town or country, and the films are non-inflammable. They will not burn.
Send the Coupon below to us, or to the Agent in your State, and you
will receive descriptive booklet, post free.
PA THE FRERES,
27 Alliance Buildings, 48 Queen St., Melbourne.
Please send me particulars of Pathe’s Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address
WEST AUSTRALIA!
OPTICAL & PHOTO SUPPLIES CO
672 Hay St, Perth.
TASMANIA:
S. SPURLINC & SON,
93 Brisbane St., Launoeston.
Pathe Freres,
27 Alliance Buildings,
48 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
BIRCH & CARROLL,
Rothwell Chambers, Brisbane.
i |
f Ne matter how far you are from us —
No matter what your Summer-wear require-
ments may be—just write us, and your satis-
faction is certain.
Khaki Drill Sac and Trousers, 14/6
Holland Sac and Trousers 14/6
Holland Sac Coats 5/-


THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICTNE.
Throughout Australasia Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills are a household remedy, and
the antidote for all general ailments. In
thousands of homes the little amber bottle
is the sole medicine
chest, for whatever the
complaint, the bowels
must be kept free, and
the process by which the
blood is purified must be
stimulated to throw off
the poisons in the blood,
which is the cause of all
disease, and many a seri-
ous illness may be pre-
vented by the timely use
of these pills, checking
the disease in its prim-
ary stage. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, being
vegetable, do not weaken,
sicken or gripe, and may
be taken with perfect
safety by the most deli-
cate woman or the young-
est child. The old and feeble will also find
them a most suitable remedy for aiding and
strengthening their weakened constitutions.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a per-
fect blood purifier, and a safe and reliable
remedy for biliousness, constipation, indiges-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and
blotches, and for female ailments.
Nearly one million bottles sold annually
in Australasia.*
* The Queen
of
M°
llii' 1
ori s
Table Waters,i
'fiSZ a
*mE’s
DIRECTIONS
ADULTS, TWO TO lOUR PIUS
CHI LOREN, A HALT TO A
WHOLE PILL DISSOLVED
WSWCSTENEO WATER.
Ufa it/on rehruif.
INDIAN ROOT
’PILLS
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
E. RESCH’S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor- General.
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
i^NOWKJ
It’s a long lane that lias no turning, and
even the Turk is liable to win a battle if he keeps
going long enough; so it is small wonder that at
last the sun of fortune has smiled on the French boxers
within our gates. On Wednesday night, last week,
E. Zanders, the Yankee fighting printer, met Ercole
de Balzac at Sydney Stadium —to his sorrow. Balzac
was cautious. He declined to go mad till Zanders
had held his own for about nine rounds. Then some-
body whistled the “Marseillaise” —and Balzac
charged. The dash of the Old Guard was nothing to
it. Zanders was rolled up, bashed and banged, but
retorted with a nasty upper-cut and a heavy jolt.
In the 11th Balzac timed and aimed his blows ex-
cellently, and every one told. Early in the 12th
Balzac knocked Zanders down and fell upon him.
Zanders took nine seconds and got up. He would
have saved himself a lot of suffering had he stayed
down, for the Frenchman set to work to slash him
to ribbons. Seeing the case was hopeless, Referee
Scott stopped the fight and gave Balzac the verdict,
whereupon the gallant Gaul put his arm round his
opponent and helped him to his chair.
* * * *
Jack Read met Paul Til at Sydney Sta-
dium again on Saturday night, and found himself face
to face with the usual fate of the man who neglects
to get himself properly fit. Presumably he some-
what under-estimated his slightly lighter adversary,
because a few weeks previously he had scored a win
over the Gaul in that same ring. On the first occa-
sion, it is evident now, the Frenchman was not
properly wound up: he had the goods aboard, but
couldn’t unload. On this occasion he simply poured
forth aggression, and was just as quick in defence
as in attack. He was in perfect condition, lithe as a
cat, and very elusive. His control over his own
fighting machine was very excellent, and oyer and
over again he avoided serious battery by so receding
the part of his anatomy that was slugged that the
blow lost half its sting and all its force. His foot-
work was good, and the way he delivered his attack,
got away and came back to the defensive, was very
pleasing. On this occasion he relied chiefly on the
right for offence, and disconcerted Read by poking
a left straight out in front of him as he drew in.
Read promptly smote it aside, and quick as lightning
over came Til’s right, with the result that early in
the disturbance Read was badly cut about. In the
18th, when Read was seeking to retrieve his shat-
tered fortunes by a sudden knock-out, he nearly
caught one himself, as the Gaul cut loose in an
amazing manner, and at the sound of the gong Read
was very battered and very exhausted. The fight
went the full 20 rounds, and although the Australian
was beaten he was in no way disgraced. The crowd
that watched the fight did not give the Australian
any credit for the way he fought back all the time,
and, in the face of superior skill and condition,
strove to snatch a victory by a knock-out; vet Read
won himself more glory bv his stubborn defence in
his defeat than he ever did in victory. He proved
he can fight a losing battle.
“Isaac Gumboil, J.P..” attends the Read-
Til lashing: “I patronised the Stadium on Saturday
night, and, in accordance with my well-known demo-
cratic tendencies, obscured myself in the two-shilling
section. The well-ordered tiers of seats, the smartly
arehitectured ‘ring,’ the gay-colored; drapes and
glittering arc lights were all somewhat at variance
vith my preconception of such haunts of vulgar
Vrutality. In fact, whilst dreamily absorbing the
really excellent band selections, I almost imagined
m'vself back at the grand opening of our Royal Muni-
cipal Quoit Club. Among those present I ob-
served several ladies, one of whom, a bright vision in
ri-color ribbons and ostrich plumes, floated butterfly-
like in close proximity to the ring. A small, bottle-
shouldered young man, with two wisps of limp hair
on his upper lin, sauntered down the central aisle,
escorted by a magnificent dark-eved person of the
'eminine species. Whether he loved her. or she led
aim into the place, is a problem that has worried
me ever since. All this, of course, in the dress-
circle, so to speak. My florin neighbors were not
ks objectionable f as one might have exnected, and
were also interesting in their own way. Truly, ‘Snaggy’
Quinn, the rabbit-o on my right, was in a subdued
state of what he called shicker, addressed me as
•mate,’ and besought me with much feeling of
accept five to one on ‘the bov’ —whoever he might
be. Into my ear he thus pleaded at one and three-
quarter minute intervals the whole evening. On mv
left was a respectful, right-thinking voung immi-
grant,, who very properly addresed me as ‘Mister,’
and held sound views on The Eviction, and also on
the person Willis —although he had arrived here only
three weeks ago. Such is the great value of an
earnest study of the Herald. He also stated im-
pressively, on numerous occasions, that all he desired
was to see the b°st man win, as he believed in British
bur play, he did. ‘But, gran’pa, it is the 12th
round!’ I heard a high-nijiched voice behind me say;
d,nd, looking round. I discovered-‘a hright-eved, alert
human insect of about 12,. accompanied by a dear
venerable gentleman, in white whiskers and a .check
cap. As the last gong sounded the rabbit-0 young
man relapsed into slum,her, mumbling something
about five to one on the blanky-boy ; and I regretted
I had not brought my usual wad of notes with me.”
*- * * *
The particular portion of 1/>e gutter in
which Jack Johnson is now located is somewhat
obscure. As ever ,/h odv expected, the charge of hav-
ing abducted Lucille Came-ou broke down hopelessly.
Against anybody hut a nigger it would have been
blown right out at the first court. The girl gave
evidence that she was with; Johnson of her own free
will, and as she had . passed the. age at which every
free and independent girl-eitivfin of the great "and
glorious U.S.A. is legally/free <to go to the Devil, if
she wishes, there' was ,riot much more to be said.
Tbev have a popular but grossly . illegal way of
dealing with such cases in the Southern States, but
Johnson had sense/enough not to indulge in his
amors in the danger belt. At time of writing he
is fighting a charge of smuggling a diamond neck-
lace, and there are a few —not more than half a
dozen —charges of having contravened the Acts for
the. suppression of the White Slave Traffic. And he
is gravely suspected of having spent, or lost most of
his money. It is safe to say he is a' very worried
nigger indeed.
* * * *
When the accounts of the Dunlop Military
Desnatch Relsv Race from Adelaide to Sydney
reached the United States, the Yankees got inter-
ested, and ,set to work to arrange an ocean to ocean
motor-bike relay race. The War Office people at San
Diego ( California) handed over a (Rspatch in a
leather wallet for transmission to N’Yark. The 4000-
odd miles was divided into 40 sections, of 100 miles
Or thereabouts each, and three motor-bikers were
loose on each section. Th n State and municipal
authorities issued special permits to the riders to
whiz through town and hamlet without incurring
the vengeance of the Law. The cable did not give
any information as to what speed was achieved or
maintained as an average ; but there should be some
interesting particulars by the next mail, when it
will be possible, to compare the Yankee performances
with those of our own men last April.
The Barnet Glass Cycle Road Race from
Bendigo to Melbourne, on the 16th, marked the end
of the big road-racing events for the T 2 season. It
achieved a bigger success than usual, no less than
120 riders facing the raging head wind, and rain-
soaked, muddy, heavy road, to battle for the £2OO
worth of prizes. The weather was cool, which was a
boon, as the ride against the heavy wind and heavier
mud was hot, sweaty work. P. M. Savage (32min.
start) won the £25 cheque of the promoting firm
for first home; but it was a mighty close thing, as
the second man, H. Bacon (29min. start), was only
a wheel behind. The third was P. Tierney. Of
course, in these events popular interest centres on
the man who makes the fastest time, and on this
occasion it was that sterling rider, Don Kirkham
(scratch), who grabbed the 10 "guineas, having fled
through the 90 miles of slush in shr. smin. 43sec.,
as against the winner’s shr. 20min. 16sec. Dunlop
tyres had a day out, carrying the first four men and
the fastest time. A feature of the race was the ex-
cellent supervision exercised, the whole course being
patrolled by motor-bikers to see that none of the
riders accepted outside pace.
Australian cyclists A. Grenda, E. Pye, P.
Hehir and G. Walker, now in the U.S.A., have en-
gaged to ride in the N’York Six Days’ Indoor Race,
to rage from December 9to 14. Kramer, the cham-
pion. has been signed on to show his beautiful legs
on Parisian tracks during the winter months. He
will be back in the States about the beginning of
April to catch the American season.
* * * *
Bruce Brown, tlie crack Amurkan motor
speed-driver, is dead. He was training for the
Yankee Grand Prix on the Milwaukee track when a
tyre burst, his car overturned, and the funeral fol-
lowed.
The American Grand Prix and Vanderbilt
Oup races were held this vear on the Milwaukee
track, an eight miles’ circuit with some shocking
corners. These were flanked with, breastworks of
baled hay, which proved very effective, as the
machines crashing into them spilt their drivers and
riders on a non-resisting surface. The Vanderbilt
Cup fell to Ralph de Palma, on a Mercedes car, in
which he traversed the 299| miles in 4hr. 20min.
31sec. —43sec. ahead of the second car. De Palma
was prime favorite for the Grand Prix also; but,
having overtaken and passed the leader, he fell into
the hay and left the place clear for O. Bragg, who,
in a Fiat, got over the 409.9 miles in shr. 59min.
22-Jsec.
* * * *
It was a weary band of motorists that
concluded the reliability trial on Saturday; and
only one came back in the evening to see how he
had fared. He had won second place. The heat had
been bad, but the roads were worse —heart-breaking
and machine-wrecking. The winner was Knight
Eaton, who secured full points in reliability, second
in the hill climb, and third in the petrol-consumption
test. . The second place fell to J. Maillard, who
secured full points in reliability and the hill climb,
but. had the bad luck to be fifth in petrol consump-
tion, and thus fell from his high estate. Still, he
was only two points behind the victor. The hill
climb, as usual, was won by Leslie Pye, of Parra-
matta, in his wonderful Vauxhall.
Shire councils throughout N.S.W. are in
a state, of white-hot indignation over the proposal
of the Government to establish a Roads Board to
control and maintain the main highways of the 1 -
State, and re-discover such of them as are lost.
Gallons of ink are being spilled to prove that the
proposed Board is not necessary, and that the shires,
if properly spurred on, will do their duty. But the
outstanding fact is that since the shires took over
control the main thoroughfares have gone to the
dogs, and are going steadily further. The State
subsidies have been either used to keep down local
taxation, or spent on the local roads that lead from
the farm of the well-known and highly-respected
resident to the nearest railway station. But the main
roads are not the main arteries of local traffic, so
they were studiously neglected, till a threat to
withhold the subsidy moved the defaulting coun-
cil to put the oldest, employee on to potter about
making a show of repairing with the worst possible
material. This game of humbug was played till the
people who used the main roads reared ; and finally,
when Ministers essayed to make speedy trips over
the infernal ways in State motor-cars, 'the fat was
in the fire. A strictly non-political Roads Board
is an absolute necessity.
One of the girl-assistants at a Melbourne
dranorium drew Duke Foote in a big sweep for the
Melbourne Cup. She was offered £2500 for her
chance, so the story goes; but being a good sport
Hike Diana of Dpbson’s). she decided to go the
whole hog. Between the time of getting her ticket
and the day of the race the fair draperette had to
retire from business and nurse her hopes and fears.
After missing the 'bus she returned to the shop,
toned up probably by the thrill of, a lifetime. Hex-
disappointment was not so bad'as that of a young
man from the country, for she did win the price of
a starter in the 10s. sweep. The young man from
the country came to Melbourne on the morning of the
race with his five-bob sweep ticket in his pocket;
and the first thing he saw was a result-sheet which
gave Piastre opposite the number of his ticket. After
the race he was the happiest bloke under Heaven.
He shouted for any men he happened to know and
a lot more whom he didn’t know. But a cold eye
noticed that his ticket was for No. 2 sweep, whereas
the number of it represented Piastre in sweep No. 1.
The jubilant young 1 man had drawn a blank, and was
50 drinks out of pocket.
The start of the fifth round of Svdney
First Grade Cricket was hampered by High Heaven,
which let loose a blizzard of hail and a sheet of
water to prepare the way for a bowler’s triumph.
Play was late beginning, and when it did start was
allowed to run but a brief while,' when another down-
pour washed the men from the fields, and only four
wickets fell in three matches. In some of the other-
matches, though, they fell like ninepins. The top
score of the afternoon was the 68 put up by H. Davis
for Waverley against Gordon ; the next best was the
52 slogged by G. L. Savle for Paddington against
Balmain :■ while . Tozer t of University, carried his
willow for 48 aga-'nst North Svdney. Paddington
was the club that did things; after putting 219 to
its own credit, it smashed up four Balmain wickets
for 13. Petersham smacked 141, and then set to
work to demolish Redfern. Redfern declined to be
demolished, and, when light gave out. had walloped
up 123 for seven wickets. Gordon dismissed Waver-
ley for 147, and then went to the dogs itself, ac-
cumulating only 89 for eight w-'ekets. University,
which went out to coruscate against North Svdnev,
lost two wickets for 84 ; Middle Harbor made 51 for
one wicket against Central Cumberland, and Burwood
biffed 42 for the loss of a single stick against Svd-
nev. It was a- dreary business, relieved only by the
fall in the price of potatoes.
The Westralian cricket team shook the
N.S.W. dust off its feet with at least one sad recol-
lection. Financially the tour was an empty affair,
but the wanderers did not mind that till one of
them glanced at the balance-sheet and discovered
that the umpires drew £2 each per day for stand-
ing round in drill coats. Just plain extortion, they
said. And so it is!
Sydney Sun has unearthed some uncom-
plimentary remarks about a few of the returned Aus-
tralian XI. It alleges that some of them were given
to horse-play, excessive drinking and loud language
and spitting ; and the Board is urged to take them
in hand and spank them soundly.
Saturday’s cricket in Melbourne concluded
the fourth round of the Pennant Competition, and
the clubs began to sort themselves out, so to
speak. At present, ’Roy, ’Varsity, ’Wood and East
are undefeated, though each has played a drawn
game, while ’Roy boasts an extra point through a
straight out win over Essendon, which, by the way,
adorns the tail end of the list. Saturday’s games
were practically lost and won on the sodden wickets
the previous Saturday. South then “declared” at
116 for nine wickets, but failed to put ’Varsity
through, the Students knocking uo 290 and winning
on the first innings. ’Wood similarly “closed” with
132 for six wickets, and got nine of ’Don’s stumps
for 27, which tally was raised to 58 before the last
man went. ’Wood again smacked up 98 for four
wickets, and started ’Don through again for a
straight-out win. But hereabouts ’'Don began to ob-
ject, and declined to be put through in the time, so
’Wood had to be content with a first innings win.
East, closing with 254 for four wickets, ran things
too closely; North, responding with a brisk effort,
accumulated 254 also, and made a drawn game. ’Roy
had already beaten St. Hilda by 185 runs to 30 on
the first attempt, but sent it in again to get the
much-desired extra point. The Saints, however,
played hard and prayed strongly, and managed to
stall off that disaster. The star player of the season
is young Jack Ryder. He has two club centuries
and two inter-State hundreds (against W.A.) to his
credit, and has captured 17 wickets for 75 runs—
average 4.41. As there is no sign of swelled head
about him, it is more than possible he may develop
into a Noble or a Giffen. Or he may not. Who
knows !
* * * *
Amazing how much uncertainty still ex-
ists as to the effect of rain upon a wicket. Even
experienced veterans fall into grievous error when a
downpour soaks their beloved “billiard tables.” In
the big match at Sydney last Saturday, when last
year s premier team (University) met North Sydnev.
the present competition leader, falls of rain and ice
at noon and 4 p.m. delayed the start till 4.35. At
4.30, North’s skipper, A. J. Hopkins, an ex-Austra-
lian XI man, won the toss, and, though he had tested
the wicket long and hard during the wait, and knew
it to be freshly wet and therefore easy, he sent Uni.
in, just as though the soaked turf had become sun-
caked and tricky, or could become so during the
199 minutes left for play. Moreover, a soft wicket
’s no use to the googlies of Hordern, for the spin
works only from hard ground. So the collapse of
North failed to eventuate, and Uni. hit up 84 for
two wickets. On a dry turf next Saturday Hordern
may do damage, but with less than four 'hours left
for actual play it will take some rapid work to avert
a draw.
* * * *
Syd. Gregory and nine other Australian
cricketers emerged, via the U.S.A., from the dark-
ness and watery wastes of Fogland last Saturday,
and Svd., having been skipper on his eighth trip,
was privileged to talk to the reporters. With his
confident assertion that Australia would have won
the final, rubber-deciding Test with England had he
only scored the toss, it is possible to agree—with the
usual reservation that nothing is certain in cricket,
wherein it differs from dominoes. Said Gregory,
as regards the toss: “I won the toss only seven times.
I called heads every t ; me, and I never spun the coin
once.” No wonder he always lost! In a cold
country, during a wet season, a coin falls tail upper-
most much more often than head. Besides, no Kangaroo
should adopt a call that implies “tail down.” Fur-
thermore, it is always advisable to let the other
fellow do a little calling... The odds are against the
caller. Gregory was surprised at the numbers of
people who turned out in wet and frightfully cold
weather to see the Australians play. They are
used to it, and 80,000 have been known to blow
along in excursion trains to see a Soccer final. Roy
Winnett and J. W. McLaren were the most severelv
handicapped new players on the wet wicket. Minnett
because he is a forcing forward batsman, and
McLaren because he is a fast bowler.
* * * *
Play in the Melbourne tennis tournament
last week left room for some difference of opinion re
the battle for the Davis Cup, which begins to-day
(Thursday). Three of the British Isles teams shaped
rather better than their previous practice form had
promised; so it goes without saying that if they
were then still capable of improvement, they may
pull : through in the final tests. On the other hand,
theri is the probability that the low temperature
and .deadened turf helped the visitors. Typical Aus-
tralian summer weather conditions, if they get them,
will come as a new experience to the men who have
been playing a rather slippery game with a some-
what muddied ball. The surprise of last Friday’s re-
sults was Lowe’s decisive defeat of Rice, the Sydney
crack, who had knocked Dixon out of the singles on
the previous day. The slowness of the ground was
all against Rice; nevertheless, the fact that the
weakest of the four visitors could give him points
in placing the ball from the back of the court was
a bit of a staggerer to the crowd. Next day Lowe
was easily beaten by his Irish colleague, J. C. Parke,
in! the final for the singles, Norman Brookes and
Heath having diplomatically withdrawn from the
fray on the Thursday. On Saturday afternoon, J.
C. Parke and Beamish met Brookes and Dunlop in the
doubles final, and the “British Isles” stock slumped,
Brookes and Dunlop winning by 6 —-2, 6—4, 6—4.
A noticeable weakness of the visitors is in their
second serve, which is the one that has to be played,
as a rule. Everybody’s wicked first serve is. a fault
more often than not, but in the art of making the
second delivery fairly fast as well as dead sure, our
men are ahead of the enemy. And whereas the hard
driving, cutting and smash strokes of the Davis Cup
challengers ■ are as good as the holders’ best, or a
trifle better on the average, they have not shown,
thus far, the alertness and resourcefulness of our
champions. Neither Parke nor Beamish strikes one
as being quite as surpriseful as (say) Jones. All
the same, they are a strong combination, likely to
worry Brookes and Dunlop to the bitter end in their
go for the Cup. As for the individual championship,
the supremacy of Brookes doesn’t look to be threat-
ened. His seeming power to make the other fellow
play into his hand is as marked as ever it was. One
of the visitors may . prove to be his master in tem-
perament and tactics, but no man who predicts the
downfall of Brookes will bet even money on it.
Meanwhile there is a doubt as to whether the British
Islers will run Parke or Dixon against the hypnotic
champion. Captain Dixon, although Rice beat him
last Thursday, will probably be the selected one if
he shapes well in his final gallops. He is rather on
the heavy side, but he times his strokes well, picks
the ball nearly off the ground, and has a tricky,,
choppy, low volley that is disconcerting. Also, he is
stolid, and likely to keep his head in a strenuous
duel. Parke is brighter and freer in his play, but
some of his second serves are remarkably feeble.
There was fun in Port Jackson on Satur-
day afternoon. The Yacht Squadron could hardly
crawl through the stillness to the starting line for
the Fairfax Cup. So slowly did they drift that
Thelma and Sayonara were four minutes late cross-
ing. Every stitcli that could be crowded on was
crowded on, and Sayonara and Thelma fought a great
duel. Then suddenly the light went out. The faint
breeze died away to an absolute calm ; after that, all
in a moment a southerly squall came howling over
the water and blinded and confused everything with
clouds of spray and sheets of steely rain. The level
harbor turned suddenly to hills and valleys of water,
and the over-canvased yachts were hurled sky-high
or dashed down into ravines. Yuelba was flung high
above the club steamer, and all but struck it as it
dashed down into a foaming abyss. When the puff
had passed people looked round to see a dismantled
squadron ; but the yachts were all intact, with sticks
still standing. Then the race resumed. Sayonara
had no chance and retired, but the others struggled
on, and, when the handicaps were deducted, it was
found Culwulla 111. had won by a small margin from
Petrel, with Thelma third. “Mr. James,” who
presented the utensil, followed the race in his
steam yacht Isis.
A week before the race no one would have
dreamed of tipping anything else for the Sydney
Flying Squadron’s 18ft. Championship but Australian,
with Christian Webb at the tiller. But that terrific
squall upset a lot of calculations, and veteran Chris-
tian was lucky to get his boat through with the area
of sail he carried. He did it, though how close a
thing it was will be gathered from the fact that only
2min. 7sec. separated the first and the fifth boats.
The way Eunice and Pastime, second and third
respectively, came along in the hands of their new
skippers was startling.
A race for the sculling championship of
the world has now been definitely arranged between
Australian champion Harry Pearce and Barry, the
holder of the title. The tussle is set down for July
next year; the wager is fixed at £5OO a-side, and
Barry allows £lOO expenses. Pearce knows that
£lOO is insufficient for the expenses: but being a
sportsman he has determined to somehow raise the
balance himself. The trouble is that on £lOO he cannot
take a trainer with him, and it will be a thousand
pities if he has to forego that help. A good oppor-
tunity for some wealthy and patriotic Australian
sportsman—gentlemen requested not to all speak at
once. Pearce intends to leave Sydney about March,
so as to have three full months to get acclimatised.
The local scullers who were so hot after Pearce’s
scalp when they heard he was going to England to
row Barry, have now withdrawn their challenges
and gained something in public respect by doing so.
* * * ‘ *
Aviator Hart, of Parramatta, is now ap-
parently quite recovered from his frightful smash at
Richmond, and anxious to be soaring once more.
Naturally his family, especially his mother, are bit-
terly opposed to his going aloft again ; but it seems
that soaring is like a taste for opium, plump girls
and absinthe —once acquired, never wholly lost.
* * * *
The Sydney branch of the Life Saving
Society went big guns last season, distributing the
record number of 1612 awards—72o for proficiency,
which speaks well for the Cornstalk youth—and
thereby did good work in inducing a small army of
young men to qualify to save life when the oppor-
tunity offers.
* * * *
Sydney swimmer A. W. Barry equalled
the 100 yards Australian record on Saturday. In
the “exhibition” smack at the record of 56 4-ssec.
of Billy Longworth, Barry put up 57 3-ssec. Later
in the afternoon he did it in 57sec. If Barry main-
tains this form he is likely to cause trouble and
sorrow in the homes of those who have hitherto ap-
propriated all the limelight.
“Don Q.”: Read with derision the state-
ment that Tattersall pays its agents in the various
States the money which, under the old order, went
in advertising. The agent receives nothing from
Tatt., but he dredges good sugar out of the public.
The principal Queensland agent, a Brisbane tobacco-
nist, is credited with making a clear £BOO per
annum out of ticket-selling for the various sweeps.
He keeps two clerks employed solely on that side
of his business. In Brisbane, the suffering public
has to cough up ss. lid. for a ss. 2d. ticket. I ask
m all Christian humility if this is not over the
odds?


EXERCISE ; and ENJOY THE SUMMER.
Hot weather has a depressing effect on your system. It makes
you languid—you complain o| the heat —“knock up” quickly—
and generally feel uncomfortable. All this unpleasantness is
due to your system not being able, without assistance, to conform
to the change of cold Winter to hot Summer
The BAKER POSTAL COURSE OF PHYSICAL CULTURE will
tone up your, system. It will quickly build you up so as to
banish the dread of the hot weather. Summer will appear mild,
which would otherwise have felt a sweltering one.
The proof of the excellence of my system tan be seen in the
following extract from a pupil’s letter: —
“Another great benefit I secured from your course was my
unusual activity during last summer. Although the tem-
perature averaged over a hundred in the shade for weeks on
end, I never remember it having so little effect on me.”
T. 5.8., Thursday Island.
You can benefit equally as well. There’s no secret or mystery
about my methods. They merely bring into effect well-established
physical principles. The various movements, are along the line
of least resistance. They ensure a sound constitution in a
sound body, a healthy and vigorous blood circulation. They will
make you a stronger and healthier man.
Surely you're not so unmindful of your own personal welfare
as to get fuller particulars and fees of my excellent POSTAL
COURSE OF PHYSICAL CULTURE. Write for my attractive
folder, “Physical Instruction by Post.” It’s worth having.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
L N
.
mm®
A lO
A QUALITY LINE
125 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney
00 (DOUBLt‘O')
Old Orkney Whisky
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Vlctor Trumper& Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsand Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg: Guards. Wicket-keeping Caunt-
lets. Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
You get more Fuel Miles
out of
SHELL
than out of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
cm: 8
\
m
m
o
o
so
Sufi
mC
m
(A 7?
THOUSANDS
Cured of PILES
Yes, to-day there are thousands of persons healthy and happy who a little
while back were sulfer.ng from the torturing agony of uiles.
They owe this change to the marvellous curative effects of Murphy’s
Pile Pills, which never fail to cure, because they go right to the cause
of the trouble in Nature’s own way, and give almost instant relief.
They are purely herbal in coipposition, harmless, non-aperient. They
cure by eliminating the poisons from the blood, and prove successful
in all cases of internal or external piles.
Murphy’s Pile Pills are for sale by all chemists and storekeepers. Price,
3/- per box, post free. If not obtainable locally, order direet from the
Sole Proprietors: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8.. 109 Regent
Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
THE LONE HAND
A. Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
When You’re in Town for Xmas
Don’t forget to call at one of our Shoe
stores and leave us your measurements for
future reference.
RIGNEY SHOES FOR MEN
are quality shoes, high-grade in every detail,
perfect in fit, smart in style, and durable
in wear.
The Shoe illustrated is a Black Velour Calf
Shoe, whole golosh perforations, very smart
style.
Price 2216
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for a Copy of our Catalogue of the
latest styles in Gent.’s High-Grade
Footwear.
"MY CIGARETTES"
The highest award
FOR CIGARETTES.
—The “ Grand Prix,”
Festival of Empire Exhibition,
London, has been added to the
long list of “ ABDULLA "
triumphs.
Ask your Tobacconist —he
will supply “ABDULLAS ” !
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


m
n
t
r
T
/J
For SPEED and SmCTION
BARNET GLASS
CYCLE TYKES
In Tyre Construction
The BARNET GLASS standard represents
absolute perfection in every part.
And ABSOLUTE PERFECTION is the lowest
standard with which BARNET GLASS will
be content.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
and All States.
Music for Everybody!
For the Picnic, the Dance, the Home.
PHONOGRAPHS
In the afternoon of life, there comes no greater solace than the
singing of the sweet old ballads of long ago, or the playing of a
martial tune which stirred our fathers in their youth.
The Edison Phonograph, with Edison Records, offers to those who
are oldest among us the best of all the entertainment of the past,
with all its sweetness of association and charm of recollection. As
the leaves of memory are stirred by the breath of melody, so remin-
iscent of the past, dear faces are gladly recalled, and happy days
pass and repass before the listener in a procession of hallowed
memories.
Make your parents a present of an Edison Phonograph and a dozen
Edison Records for Christmas. They will appreciate such a gift
above the consideration of its monetary worth.
Go to the nearest Edison dealer and hear the Phonograph to-day.
Write us direct if you do not know the address, and we will reply
telling you that of the nearest, and send latest lists of Phonographs
and Records.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Cobber Mouth Organs
hCO&Bf'/?
E 3 BTj t“2 E 3 E 3 E 3
rm rr« b r’g ca ta gs
No. 1. — The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case —3/“
No. 2. —The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case 2 /“
No. 3.— The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case 1/6
No. 4. — The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box 1/“
The Cobber Mouth Organs are renowned for
their melodious tone. Every care has been
given to the free production of sound. Thor-
oughly seasoned material is used in the manu-
facture, and we guarantee to replace if on
receipt anv one is in anv way defective.
REXOPHONES
The “Ringer”
Dominion Accordeon
The brass trumpets of the “Ringer” are a
feature found in no other, and they help to
give it that wonderful tone that has made it
such a favorite.
i>&nts/o/>r
2 SI-
25/-
With Steel Reeds, 28/-; larger model, 29/-
Larger model, steel reeds in wood case, with
lock, 45/-
These Aecordeons are beautifully and solidly
finished. They are exact in tuning, and have a
very fine quality of tone. Their durability is
ensured by only thoroughly seasoned material
being used in their manufacture. Every accor-
deon is carefully tested before it leaves
our works.
YORK
KENT
m
DOVER
CaMP
BUTE
SVD
Sold by
all
Stores.
Send for
Rexophone
Catalogue.
REXOPHONES. For the
reproduction of the human voice
or orchestral music the quality and
value of the Rexophone is now universally
acknowledged to be the best in Australia. Clear,
Mellow, Powerful, and with a freedom from the defects
so noticeable in the early instruments of this class. Rexo-
phones make ideal instruments for a home. Beautifully finished,
carefully constructed, and scientifically tested, Rexophones make lasting
friends, and become a never-failing source of pleasure. We stock records of
all the popular singers, instrumental solos and duets, Band Selections. Sacred Vocal
Selections, etc., and will furnish Catalogues of Records stocked on receipt of postcard.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
457 KENT STREET, Corner of Druitt Street, SYDNEY.
Marian Norman, who died at Melbourne the other
day, was one of the original Pollard Lilliputians.
She played the name part in “The Little Duke,”
the first opera produced at the old Melbourne Alex-
andra, now Her Majesty’s. Other members of the
eo. were Harry Roberts, Lucy Cobb and Vi. Varley.
At seven Marian appeared in panto, at the Opera
House, and later figured in opera, Baconian drama
and bellowdrammer. She was with Dan Barry when
Daniel was the Asche of the provinces. Afterwards
she appeared with Bilanderson and the old Meynell
and Gunn firm. Of late, Marian Norman has not
been seen on the stage; but Mrs. Bredmeyer (that
was the lady’s married name) has appeared on the
platform at many political meetings. She was one
of the most effective speakers on the side which fails
to number the shining lights of the Women’s Fashion-
able League among its adherents.
“Looking Backward”: The dramatic prologue,
being dead, yet squeaketh. The latest is Stephen
Phillips’s to celebrate the centenary of the Drury
Lane Theatre on October 10. It begins:—
This night re-rose, a hundred years ago,
Old Drury from her ashes with new glow.
That night was she baptised with Byron’s fire,
And leapt to resurrection at his lyre.
To-night what ghosts revisit Drury Lane!
What shades re-people this familiar fane?
Here follow the names of 36 of the visiting ghosts,
beginning with the Avon poacher and ending with
Sir ’Enry. It is a poor bit of work, far below
Phillips’s average, and just says the obvious thing
about the dead players. 11. B. Irving recited it at
the centenary.
“Hamer”: The Rev. F. B. Cowling has created a
stir in the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney by introducing
moving pictures into his church. The moving pic-
ture is an established custom with up-to-date par-
sons in Britain, and is almost orthodox amongst
the Yankees ; but in Australia the thing is new, and,
of course, is viewed with suspicion and concern by
the right-thinking. But the Rev. Cowling is an
original parson—he even represented the Woollahra
Laborites at the last Labor Conference. His methods
may savor much of Yankeeism. Yet he is alive,
which is a blessed thing considering how many par-
sons are merely waiting for the Resurrection.
“Harrison O.”: Bilanderson is to revive “Fedora,”
with Mrs. Bill (Eugenie Duggan) in the name part.
Sardou wrote the play for Mrs. Bernhardt, who
played it a couple of times in Melbourne, in 1891,
with the gentleman who called himself Duquesne as
Ipanoff. Next year it was put on at the Opera
House; Mrs. Bernard Beere starred and Herbert
Standing was Ipanoff. The play had a run of two
weeks, and was revived on the last night of the
season. ’Tilda Brune and Madge Mclntosh are the
most recent Fedoras we have had hereabouts.
“0.K.”: Wherein lies the Yankee smartness in
misapplying the word “some” ? Wallingford, the
“boob trimmer,” refers to the leading stenographer
of Battlesburg as “some gel,” because she perceives
the obvious; and although a brief experience of the
crook’s florid blandishments deadens her feeble in-
telligence and converts her into a boob, she evi-
dently remains “some gel” in his crooked estimation.
The advt. of the Wallingford show says, “This sure
is some play,” as though it were meant to be an
impressive Yankee declaration of merit. Of course
it is some sort of a play, even as the weak-minded
typewriter is some sort of a girl. But where’s the
smartness of the term ? I can’t discover it. It
takes some finding.
“Cockaigne”: An anonymous new book, “Leaves
from My Life,” interests me a good .deal. .It is
palpably by a woman, and internal evidence points
to a daughter of Frith, the artist. The charm to
me lies in the writer’s acquaintance with the inti-
mate family life of the Irvings, Jeffersons, Bouci-
eaults, Sotherns, Fechters and Bellews. Mr. and
Mrs. Irving were married from the house of Mr. and
Mrs. Wigan. The authoress was pained by their
separation, as she had a great liking for the little
boys, Harry and Lawry. Mrs. Irving only com-
plained of dreadful loneliness—lrving went to the
Garrick Club after the play. Jefferson was one of
the nicest men she, ever met. He went from
America to Sydney to'beguile sorrow for the loss of
his wife, and took his little son with him. Back
to London, he married again, and was comfortable
The Boucicaults had four children—Aubrey, Dion
G., Nina, and the daughter who afterwards became
Mrs. Clayton. They seemed happy, but here again
the authoress was pained! Indeed, few of her^be-
loved Thespians yielded a happy domestic chronicle.
“Dundreary” Sothern’s children were nice: Lyttori
(who came to Australia), Edward (now the chief
American star) and a daughter. Fechter’s family
seems to have broken up painfully. The authoress
echoes the enthusiasm of Dickens over Fechter.
After his Hamlet, she could not endure Irving’s!
And as for Irving’s Romeo—Horror 1 James Smith”of
Melbourne, was equally shocked by it. The .authoress
often visited the Bellew (Higgins) family. She
approved of the sons, Evelyn and Kyrle, but hated
Mrs. Bellew and the daughters, who went into con-
vents. Rev. J. C. M. Bellew’s Catholicism was
genuine, for it caused him to die in povertv. IPs
first wife had deserted him in India, and he divorced
her. Evelyn Bellew mysteriously disappeared.
“C. Ockney”: W. S. Penley, the chirrupy little
comedian, whose death took place a few days ago,
had not been seen on the London boards for some
years. Ilis performances of “The Private Secretary”
and “Charley’s Aunt” were, nevertheless, quite suffi-
cient to keep his memory green. They were two highly
artistic creations, excellent alike in conception and
execution, and they will live. Both plays were
written by actors, or, rather, actors siroplied the
skeletons. Charles Hawtre.y was: responsible (on the
play-bill) tor the “Secretary,” and Brandon Thomas
for the “Aunt.” But how much of their success was
owing to Penley !
“H. 0.”: I see that Isadore Duncan, the “classical”
dancer, has bought a beautiful castle in France.
Which prompts me to this hint: —
Fireside queen or social soarer
Whose “allowance” goes on dress,
While you’re growing daily poorer,
Take a hint from Isadora —
Save your coin by wearing less!
“C. Ockney”: I congratulate “The Chee-ild” on
his choice of a nom de Poverty Point. In his youth-
ful ignorance he asks whether “Alias Jimmy Valen-
tine” would be accepted in Europe or America as a
fair evening’s entertainment for six bob. Well, I
don’t know much about the prices in America where
that particular play was manufactured, but 1 rather
think they are a bit ahead of those in England, and
in England “Jimmy” was played (and for a good
long season) at 10s. 6d. —the ordinary price of stall
seats at the West End. Also, there was no curtain-
raiser, “bright” or otherwise. Indeed, when “The
Chee-ild” prattles of the “bright curtain-raiser they
get elsewhere,” I would like to ask the little one
where Elsewhere is? Hardly in London. There nowa-
days the piece of the evening is generally preceded by
“Mr. Somebody and a piano,” or a lady mimic. I
have heard a prominent Australian manager say when
“sounded” about a one-act piece, “Experience "teaches
us that in Australia two plays on the bill mean
one failure!” And I think in this ease that Ex-
perience docets.
“Motley”: News comes by mail of the death of
Bostock, the menagerie man. He sent Bostock and
Wombwell’s show round to India, China and Aus-
tralia a few years ago. It was auctioned in Mel-
bourne, to the gain of the Fitzgeralds and Wirths.
Bostock had worked in America for the last 20 years.
His father was a circus man, and his mother one of
the Wombwell family. They intended to make the
son a parson, but he preferred to be a lion tamer.
Nothing would stop the penchant. Of course he had
hundreds .of thrills. In 1889, he was showing at
Birmingham, England, when one of his lions escaped
into the sewer. Public consternation followed. With
the connivance of the authorities, Bostock lowered
another lion in a cage into the sewer at an obscure
point. This lion was fished out with great parade
and so the public mind was made easy. A tough job
Bostock had to get the first lion out. He entered
the sewer with three men and a boar-hound, and it
was the hound that did most of the salvage.


PACINO
CLOQ
•>W
« m i
u
:
& *
m
U
-.V
1
I
i
I
: ■ ;
H
I
i :
m
SsSsa*
■ ■
COP DAY AT
VICTORIA PARK.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 30,
will be Cup Day at Victoria Park. The
Lawns and Stands will be thronged with
a keen, pleasure-loving crowd of sporting
enthusiasts.
1000 Sovereigns Prize Money
distributed over Seven Races —£500 first prize
for the Victoria Park Cup.
Victoria Park is noted for its closely con-
tested races —each race being run in one
division — thus adding to the afternoon’s enjoy-
ment by ensuring a daylight return home.
Those who have not witnessed a meeting at
Victoria Park have a pleasure in store. Only
12 minutes from Central by Zetland tram. The
grounds present an exquisitely beautiful picture
flower beds, ablaze with many-hued blooms,
dot the lawns—the centre of the racing tracks
consists of a well-kept coursing sward.
First-class Luncheon provided in Refresh-
ment Room.
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band will render
selections on the lawn throughout the afternoon.
FIRST RACE 2 P.M.
COME EARLY, AND ENJOY A
DELIGHTFUL OUTING.
Programmes from
VICTORIA PARK RACING CLUB,
H. COBCROFT, Secretary,
21 Imperial Arcade,
Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
'"**ii'i>
£
mm
a#ssk
SHS?
&■
s
S&S
4
r /2
2s3s*3«*-k
aaa
■
Steffi
i
1
m
m£.
wmm
?AA
m
m
*%p
m
mv
msim&
m
Mm
m
*mt.
m
m
m
m*
m
sg©
m
«
i
m
m
B 8
Wms
sa*
1
as:
;<S$
’«a
H
m
«a
HI
SK
B
HR


COUGH gone
SCOTTS
EMULSION
CHEAPEST in the END. 1
The strength-restoring pow-
ers of Scott’s Emulsion are
proved not by months but
by 37 years stringent tests
and proved results.
All throat and chest
complaints
—all weaknesses due to poor
nutrition are banished by
this pure,palatable emulsion.
This is only one of
thousands of letters:
“After taking the contents of one
bottle of Scott’s Emulsion, my cough
is quite gone. My doctor recommended
Scott’s Emulsion and stated as his
opinion that it was the best prepara-
tion of its kind, by far the cheapest in
the end. It has been very fully borne
out in my own case. Mr. P. J. Hart,
Heidelberg Road, Alphington, Mel-
bourne, Victoria. 11.5.11.
Observe, the doctor said SCOTT’S
Emulsion, not an imitation or substi-
tute. Therefore, do not ask merely
for emulsion; ASK FOR SCOTT’S
Emulsion and see the Trade Mark.
j
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS ANO WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent m'ental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, 11. A. God-
dard, No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, .Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street, East Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South AVales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to ’contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
If the emutsion you buy does
not bear this trade mark, it
is not SCOTT’S. Therefore,
see the mark before you buy
—a guarantee of SCOTT
purity and genuineness.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, ported 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
Smith, Copeland 8 Co. Ltd.,
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co. , 8
Combination Harness and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing Outfits (power
or foot). Easily' operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without
“ CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.
Sole Australasian Agents,
9
fi
■
«
m
m
m
*The Money
Maker.”
S ’ | mk
111#
m
l
E 1
Just “That”
Much Better!
Yes, “ABERDEEN” Tar-
paulins are just “that” much
better to make them well worth
your asking for by NAME.
The making is carried out
under strict supervision, the
canvas and stitching are strong
and reliable. If you cannot get
“ABERDEEN” canvas goods
locally, be sure to write direct
to us.
204=6 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
AGENCIES:
VICTORIA—J. Bartram & Son, King Street, Melbourne,
QUEENSLAND—H. I. H. Ross, Edward Street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA—C. D. Whiting & Co., Adelaide.
TASMANIA—Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, Hobart.
W. AUS. —A. Baiharry, Perth.
CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
[2
“The World-wide Whiskey”
BURKE’S
★ IRISH
WHISKEY
Distinguished by its Delicacy of Flavour.
Lightness and Digestibility.
Exquisitely Mellow.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
1 DUBLIN.
Capital £1,100,000. Estd. 1849
SPECIALISTS
We Specialise in All Departments of our Business.
In Cinematographs we only offer THE BEST,
The Kelvin Engine and
The Empire Biograph
“The Combination that Ensures Success.’’
These Plants are Portable and their
praises are proclaimed by all users.
£45
We Can Supply Complete Outfits,
including Limelight Plant, at
Send for our FREE CATALOGUE and MAKE
MONEY WITH MOVING PICTURES.
WE CAN ADVISE YOU IN ALL BRANCHES
OF THE BUSINESS.
JERDAN’S,
Opticians, Electricians,
Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Victoria : 236 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Take Ayer's Sarsapa-
rilla. No alcohol, no
stimulant A strong nerve
tonic. A blood purifier.
An aid to digestion.
YOUNG SHAVERS
and OLD SHAVERS
Use "PLUM" RAZORS
The Plum Razor is immensely popular, because it presents
the ideal shaving blade. Keen, smooth and lasting, its deli-
cately tempered feather edge will wipe off the toughest
stubble without leaving any face soreness and redness. We
keep every Plum sold in perfect order for two years, free of
charge.
We Guarantee Every “Plum”
We Sell for Two Years.
A CORRESPONDENT writes : “There is
/V. always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
Price 10/6, Post Free.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handslome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemists.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
CRAIG & AITH.EN,
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Mac: Excellent sentiments. But the
wrapper of verse doesn’t match the sentiments....
K.F.N.: MS. posted back, 9/11/’l2 Mcllaggis:
Regret to say the sunset-turkey story failed to cross
the bar, after being given a second chance. By the
way, attach name and address to copy.... Immi-
grant : From Merrie England, no doubt: -
TO AVONIA, ON APPROACH OF DEATH.
No longer mourn for me when I am dead.
Then you shall hear the surly sullen hell
Give warning to the world that I am fled
From this vile world with vilest worms to dwell:
Nay, if you read this line, remember not
The hand that wrote it, for I love you so
That I in your sweet thought would be forgot
If thinking on me then should make you woe.
Or if (I say) you look upon this verse
When I perhaps compounded am with clay,
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse;
But let your love even with my life decay:
Lest the wise world look into your moan
And mock you with me after I am gone.
M.A.K.R.: Dainty, but out of our line. Should be
marketable elsewhere. .. .Concertina: Still wheezy...
General: AVe will put it to you squarely: Quote us
your lowest price for a signed promise never to
write, dictate, hint, or signal another line of prose
or verse during the term of your natural life, as wit-
ness your fist this day of 191 ?. .. . Tuan :
Both'turned down A.J.M.: Feeble work Yan-
natharra: Heroic efforts to be smart. It is very ex-
hausting to watch you at it. . .George Rex: Wouldn t
print that poem, even if you offered us the crown
jewels. .. .M.S.: Two thousand words about nothing
in particular H.G.H.: No use for Life’s Story in
14 chapters. .. .0.R.: Just pleasant campfire jingle.
.. . . A. 8.: If the three poems flew back to you, they
are the sort of things we forget rapidly. Can’t sup-
ply a criticism or suitable insult without reading
again, and life is too short to review the basket....
Mick C.: One will do for this column: —
TIME.
Wide o’er the world he wanders
Old Father Time’s his name,
He tarries not or ponders,
He plays no waiting game.
His face ain’t flushed with anger
Or his hands with a murder stain
And with the bushrangers of Australia
He galloped across the plain.
He carries a lovely little sun dial
(My word, his watch was never beat)
And he loves the peonle that work and toil,
The little children he loves to greet.
He travels both early and late
And he’s out both night and day
He has every crime wrote down on his Slate
(My word, he’s boss on the milky way).
.. . . A.U. (S.A.) : Poem may he a feast of reason,
but it looks suspiciously like a flow of fog. . . J.A.R.:
“Piastre,” “Melbourne Cup!” Why stir up old
recollections with a stick of verse? Let the dead-
broke past bury its dead birds.... Melody: Slain in
all friendliness. Lacking your name and address, the
MS. will be buried as a pauper in the w.p.b
Nelson F.: Only up to album standard.... E.AV.O’D.:
Advances to ' Settlers Branch, Savings Bank,
Moore-street, Sydney. . . .Nuki: Good par.... Splod-
ger: Interesting enough, if you’d found a neg to
hang it on F.M.N.: Can’t undertake to criticise
MSS. by letter or turn the mail into a whipping-
post.... AVang: For the second (and last) time, it
is no use forwarding contributions that have been
turned down at some previous date.... Concertina:
“Morning” is as mild as the whisky served at Good
Templars’ bean-feasts. . .Yarrum (and a few others):
Don’t crowd your lines so close together. Your
copy is not ready for print when you’ve done with
it... . Syd. Citizen: True, doubtless; hut you’re
guiltv of the unforgivable sin of putting it stodgily.
....Royden S. Gibb: No charge; we like doing it.
X.Q.P.: Afraid you never will. . . .Barwon: You start
off with a false assumption. They are. . . .Manin:
“Brother Spurr” very fair topical stuff ; but another
got in first.. ..The Vagrant: Come in!
The drunkard begged the night porter to give him
a drink.
I am still sober, he said, although you might not
.think ;
Just one more taste and I will go home ;
If not, until morning the streets I must roam.
No, no, my poor man, the boots through the keyhole
replied,
my job is worth nix if I let you inside,
the boss he give, strict orders
that no one hut boarders
Any liquor could devour
After the closing hour.
but the limb of the law had with quiet tread drew
near. .. ,
a voice from the gloom said I must take ■ you in
charge
as I can see-you are not fit to be at large,
to keep vour family from disgrace
I will lodge you in a place
where many a loafer
has the recovery to suffer.
Some remarks on the fascination and
mystery of barriers :
There’s a subtle something about a fence—more
especially a high, chinkless fence, with barbed wire
running threateningly along its top. The charm, or
whatever it is, consists of the simple fact that a fence
separates you from some place, and gives it
the superior air of inaccessibility. If it is the best
sort of fence, i.e., high and opaque, it gives the
enclosed ' space the additional charm of mystery.
The complaining world is much indebted to the
humble fellows who, with a view to gas pipes or
electric mains, fence, in bits of the public street and
footpaths, and thus create temporary little oases of
interest on barren wastes of common territory. It
is a privilege to walk round these sanctuaries, and
an honor to be permitted on rare occasions to gaze
free of charge at the officiating priest who crouches
inside with soldering iron and rasp. It does not
matter that he is usually absent from his shrine,
for the leaning traveller is then able to gaze at his
leisure and amuse himself by guessing what mystic
.iob the absent one means to do there when he returns
from his trip to the Holy Land. Sydney, the city
of mystery and improvements, is particularly rich
in fences and barriers. Most of them are decorated
at dusk with red and green lanterns of antique design
—a pretty rite performed by devoted worshippers who
steal out at dusk and brood awhile on the second
coming of the worker, ere retiring like shadows to
await the dawn and the extinction part of their ser-
vice. I have no oatience with the brutally practical
type of man who, on circumnavigating a barrier,
grunts angrily, “Wonder when they’re going to finish
this iob?” The finish of jobs means the fall of
barriers, and that in turn means the end of mystery.
Blow the jobs.
“Wallace”: Wrestler Hackenschmidt’s
theory (B. 31/10/’l2) connecting the free
use of sweets with great muscular activity
looked well when supported by the assertion
of an authority that 2oz. of pure sugar is
the finest known stimulant for tired muscles.
It looked better still when propped up by
the fact that the German soldier carries a
sugar ration in his haversack. And it
seemed quite unnecessary to say any more
on the subject when George Greed’s fond-
ness for sweets and his great physical ac-
tivity lumbered across the landscape.


BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS.
One of Australia’s most gifted singers, Madame Lena Conly, writes about the
BEALE High-grade PIANOS: —
Brisbane,
Messrs. BEALE & CO., LTD., 23rd September, 1912.
BRISBANE.
Gentlemen,
/ have to thank you for your consideration in placing one of
your upright Beale Concert Grand Pianos at my disposal during
my Brisbane Concert Season.
I must congratulate you on the splendid tonal and other
fine qualities of the instrument. / have always had the greatest
admiration for the Beale Pianos. They will always satisfy, and all
Australians should insist on having them.
It will give 'me great pleasure at any time to make use
of or recommend the Beale Pianos.
Believe me, yours faithfully,
LENA CONLY.
In addition to its superb musical qualities, the Beale is the most durable of all pianos. We prove our con-
fidence in the durability of our product by our guarantee of 25 years with every Beale Piano.
We have, received thousands of testimonials from users of our instruments in the most severe climates, such
as Western and Northern Queensland, Broken Hill, Fiji, etc.
A piano that can resist the most trying and changeable climates, and at the same time satisfy the demands
of the most accomplished artists, is worthy of your inspection.
The Beale High-Grade Pianos embody patent methods of construction that are not found in any other pianos.
But they also possess all the improvements found in the best makes of modern foreign pianos.
The invention of our patent steel tuning-system was the greatest advance made in piano manufacture since
the adoption of the iron frame. Besides this, we have our own special methods of constructing the sounding-board,
and building up the casework from cross plies of thoroughly seasoned timbers expressly selected for the purpose.
By our method of selling direct from factory to user we save you all the usual agents’ and middlemen’s
profits. And you have no Customs Duty nor other importing charges to pay.
In your own interest you should inspect the Beale High-Grade Pianos. There is absolutely no obligation
whatever upon your part. We shall heartily welcome your inspection, and, of course, you suit yourself as to whether
you purchase or not.
Be sure of this : the better musician you are the more you will be delighted with a Beale High-Grade Piano.
We sell for cash or upon easiest terms.
If you cannot call, write for catalogue and full particulars, which we will be pleased to send post free.
CO.
TD.,
MAKERS OF
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS
“ The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
CARL V A D E R PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65. 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115,150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
839 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY,Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, -Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


A CHEAT ARRAY OF XMAS GIFTS
' x'-'u • • - /• "* ' \
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, f Plate, full
jewelled, patent adjusted bal-
ance, 30/; Solid Gold, £3;
extra jewelled, £3/10/, £4/10/.
Guaranteed 2 to 3 years, free
repairs.
9ct. Gold, Set Pearls and Peridot,
Amethyst, or Turquoise, 25/-
9ct. Gold Fancy Bar, Bird, Bell,
and Chain BROOCH, ]_()/.
3^3
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, fine Opal
and pure Diamonds, 50/-
Gent’s Nickle Open Face Keyless Lever,
full jewelled, with Patent adjusted bal-
ance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and water proof Cases, 15/; Higher
grade, 20/-.
9ct. Gold, Set Pearls and Peridots, or
other Australian Stones, 20/ ; 15c t.
Gold, 35/.
Solid Gold Patent Expanding WATCH BRACELET,
full Jewelled, Lever Movement, £7/10/-; 15ct
Gold, extra quality, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5.
9ct Gold DOUBLE ALBERT, £2/15/, £3,
£4, £4/10/, £5. 15ct Gold, £6/5/, £6,
£7/10/, £B/10/, £lO.
£3/10/,
£6/10/,
SYDNEY’S
L EADI N C J EWELLER
□
H
n
L
n
j
<4
h>
807, 809. 611. 813. 615. 817. OEOPGE. ST. f Opposite Railway Station) SVPNEV N.S,_VY
AT
A. SAUNDERS
Just what to give this Xmas, just the most acceptable, practical Gifts for
everybody are depicted in Our Free Xmas Gift Booklet, with its 30 pages of
delightful present suggestions. Write for a Copy—we will post it by return.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, Sapphires,
or Olivines,
£6/10/--
Set. Gold, Set
Garnet, 17/6
9ct. Gold, Set
Pearls and Red or
Blue Stones,
9ct. Gold, Set Pearls and Peri-
dots, or other Australian Stones,
20/; 15ct. Gold, 35/.
9ct. Gold Seal
PENDANT, Blood-
stone or Sardonyx,
20 /•
9ct.
Gold LINKS,
20/-.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
JEWELLERY.
9ct. Gold, Set Diamonds, Ruby, or Sapphire,
£3/10/-
9ct Gold Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, strong
Safety Chain attached, £ 3/10/'-
9ct Gold, set Pearls
andColoured
Stones, 30/-.
Pearl, and Dia-
mond Centre,
WE
PAY
POST-
AGE.
Silver Gilt Enamel PENDANT, Set
Amethyst, 15 /•
18ct. Gold, Set
Diamonds, Oli-
vines, Rubies,
or Sap ph i re s
£5/10/-- -
9ct DOUBLE ALBERT, 55/-, 60/--
18ct. Gold Cluster,
set pure Diamonds,
£lO
18ct. Gold, set
5 pure double
cut Diamonds,
£5.
45
18ct. Gold, Set
Pure Double
Cut Diamonds,
£l2/10/--
9ct. Gold PEN-
DANT, Set Ame-
thyst or Garnet,
10/
14ct. gold
filled Muff
CHAIN, 25/;
9ct Gold, 40/,
50/, 60/, 70'/,
18ct. G old,
Set Diamonds,
Rubies, or Sap-
phires,
£3/5/-.
9ct. Gold
Band RING,
10/; 15ct -
Gold, 20/; 18ct.
Gold, 25/.
p Of “I
.9ct. Gold, Set Pearls
and Garnets, 15/-
9ct. Gold BROOCH, Set
Amethyst or Garnet,
7/6-
Set Gold LOCK-
ET, nicely
chased,
20/-
15ct
Gold,
Diamonds.
£4/15/-
set
i
Ladies’ Solid Silver Open
Face Keyless WATCH,
full jewelled, timed, ad-
justed, 20/; Black Open
Face, 7/0, 10/ ; Higher
Grade, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Peridot,
Turquoise, or Amethyst,
12/6
9ct Gold, Fancy Spray BROOCH, set
Pearls and Turquoise, or all Pearls,
20/-
9ct Gold BAR BROOCH,
10/6
Gent’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Lever
WATCH, full Jewelled, non-magnetie,
£2- Extra Jewelled, 50/. 10 years
Gold Cased Waltham
WATCH, 50 /-> 20 years guaranteed,
£4; 25 years guaranteed, £5.
Guaranteed 2 to 5 years free repairs.
9ct. Gold, Set Pearls and
other Australian Stones, 21/
37/6.
Peridots, or'
; 15ct. Gold,
Solid Gold .Patent Expanding WATCH BRACELET,
full Jewelled, Accurate, £4/47; Lever Movement,
Extra Quality, £5/10/-, £6/10/-.
9ct Gold DOUBLE ALBERT, £3, £3/5/, £3/10/, £4,
£4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/. 15ct Gold, £5/10/, £6,
£7/10/, £B/10/, £lO.
silvje:
MlTri
O
TJ
■
©
M
ER
CL
20/.
20/.
30/.
30/.
WE
PAY
POST-
AGE.
a 5/•
15/!
£2.
15/.
20/.
£2.
£3/15/-.
9ct. Gold,
set Pearls and
Corals.
£3/15/-.
Pearls and
Amethysts or
Aquamarines.


r\
r : x
VEST POCKET KODAK
Reduced from 35- to 30/-
■'' ■' v & .
Owing to improved manufacturing facilities, and consequently increased shipments, we
are now able to announce the reduction of the Vest Pocket Kodak from 35/ =to the English hist
Price of 30/=, and of the 8 exposure .spools of Kodak Film from 1/3. to 1/= each.
It is a Kodak that you ought to have —a small instrument so convenient as to fit a man s waistcoat pocket or
lady’s handbag, with no projections, no complications, and no need of previous experience to enable you to make
successful pictures at the first attempt.
It is fitted with carefully selected Meniscus Achromatic Lens, Kodak Ball-bearing
Shutter, with Irish Diaphragm and Auto-time Scale, and Reversible Brilliant hinder. Takes
pictures lfin. x 2|in., which may be enlarged to postcard size. Price, 30 = Order by mail
if you cannot procure from your dealer, adding 6d. extra for postage. Descriptive Booklet free.
n
KODAKS
for Christmas.
If you would make a present at Christmas that will be highly appre-
ciated, let that .present be a Kodak Camera.
Or if you are going away, let your companion be a Kodak ( ameia. It
will have no whims other than those'dictated by you; will always be
ready for use; is exceedingly simple in manipulation, and no dark
room is required at any time in the making of the pictures.
Regular Kodak Cameras are priced, from 21/-; Brownie Cameras from
5/- to 50/“ Catalogue free.
SYDNEY: 370 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE : 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA. : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N Z.: 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
KODAK
(Australasia)
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
Strops
Itself.
U
u
w. SAFETY-
Razor
Easy on your Pocket —
BECAUSE whatever the price
of a razor, you are at constant ex-
pense for new blades unless you
use an Auto Strop, the only self-
stropping Safety Razor made.
**PI
7
/ fj-\ \
Hi
1
mm*;
</‘ V
Easy on
your pocket
easy on
your face.
Easy on your Face —
BECAUSE you can strop the
blade to such keenness that the
touch of the razor when drawn
across your face feels like a delicate
caress.
B
vm
n
Vi
©
©
©
©
©
©
0
©
©
©
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
When you buy Winchester cartridges,
you get the result of over forty years ex-
perience in manufacturing ammunition
and the product of orie of the most com-
plete plants in the world. In other words,
instead of taking a gambler’s chance with
ammunition manufactured by Tom, Dick
or Harry, you are getting a perfected pro-
duct that is sure to give results. And the
cost is about the same. Winchester cart-
ridges are made for all kinds and calibers
of rifles, revolvers and pistols and sold
everywhere. They will bring out the
full possibilities of your firearms.
jlsjk: for the red w brand
Auto Strop Razor with
rust-proof blades and horse-
hide strop in leather case.
Price in Australia ... 22/6
price in New Zealand. 25/-
Sole Depot for Australasia:
Partridge —Abercromby, 1 -dd.,
Yo.rk Chambers,
Market Street,' Sydney.


STEWART DAWSON’S Offer
The Goods that Men Appreciate
at First Cost Prices.
The articles, illustrated hereunder, will appeal strongly by tfltirfisefulness,
designs and lasting service. They are the products of skilled and faithful
workmanship, and represent the summit of manufacturing excellence.
JVe pay full postage on all goods, and send our Illustrated Art
Catalogue, post free, on request.
Hl6l.—Solid Silver Match
Box, 7/6.
Other Designs at 8/6 10/6
12/6, 15/6, 18/6,
Sir?
Silver-plated
Tobacco Box, 8/6.
Round, Plain, 6/6.
The “Kwiknak” Collar Box. The
new Leather Collapsible Collar Box.
Best English Make, Real Pig Skin.
Pric \ 12/6
Tl
i m
:
JBlll. —The Treasure Safetv Razor will
always insure a quick apol delightful
Shave. Best 2/C.
mi
mi
m
F 6202. Pni'l-ot
Fruit Knives, solid
Silver Blades, vvitli
Moth or-o’-Pearl
Handles. Prices.
2/6, 3/6, 4/0,
5/6, 0/6, 7/6.
Stewart Dawson <& Co.
STRAND CORNER, (Aust.) Limited
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
Other Stewart Dawson Establishments:—Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
Wellington (N.Z.), Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Hatton Gar-
den, E.C., and Regent Street, London, W.
01053. —Nickel Shaving Com-
bination, set with movable
mirror, 27/6.
Others from 8/6 to 70/-
J9so4.—The dust-proof “Automatic”
Roll-up, S'lver-plated Shaving Strop,
best quality, 20/-
KLIP-KLIP.
Pocket Manicure, Kail Cutter, File and
Cleaner Combined. Best Quality Sil-
ver-plate on German Silver.
Price. 2/0.
Sterling Silver-mounted
Shaving Tidys. Prices,
6/6, 10 6, 12/6,
17/6, 25/-
G96l2.—Solid Silver and Cut
Glass Card Marker and Ash
Tray, 16/6.
Best Quality Tobacco Pouches, with
Silver Shields. 4/6, 5/6, 6/6,
7/6. 9ct. Gold Shields, Jl/6,
12/6, 13/6, 15 / '6. Kangaroo,
Deer or Ant lipe Skins.
IT92l9.—Solid Silver Cigarette
Box, to hold 50.
Price, £3/12/6
J 3280.—1) tto, Silver Mounted.
10/6.
02396. —The very latest
Si lver-mounted Walking
Stick, with Automatic
C gar or Cigarette Lighter
concealed inside. 30/-
PI
SWafiffiW
-; >v -
m
m
**
4
1 •
~ S* y sg
■it- ,- ■-■■ !r_ -•
**■' xftu/ 1
K
; ■■■■ ■'i«i
m
CD
■■■
fu
sr.
o
V
(
■SSL
o
afc
aß«W9a»»?,g^Bi!
KRUSE'S /
FLUID MAGNESIA*
•;s#§s
■A-
r
«K»
■■umi
~0)
/ -t!
-• -J l!J
---i
—jww £
j- 1 >— 0 i o
/131
r ~~ /• , I— V
™ a nf forTner,J ; of has joined the-
work] t'rmi/ who are bombarding the
trom the Balkans. Hg has firone tor flip-
With°a fad? R b , 'f® PC T’i ° f which he is news-editor.'
With a fair helping of luck, Fox ought to be proving
the i° b - The Australian pr^neve?
a Ttrins to n,d? a r‘h el f P ™L and WUerever there is.
or get H H J^, 11 v at J m, ’ ht ff,ve him information,
?Jni ‘\ wa ; y a , lter he llas finished with it, Fox
fc> mi]! e !t r demv r T Ve u t 0 pull {t ’ or the skil] !
milSv tnA y 'i Besides, he knows something about
military work. As a lieutenant in a Sydney artillery
regiment he produced oceans of colored language from,
his seniors in the field; but when it came to theoreti-
°?v pap , er ' he simply amazed them with the-
things he cither knew or seemed to know. In that,
respect, he was like N.S.W. Attorney-General Hol-
man when he went up for his final law exam, nine-
years ago. Holman had been living a strenuous life-
while he read he is the sort of good-natured per-
son who always manages to accumulate four engage-
ments for the same moment—and as he rushed off
to sit, he said; “Well, when I come to think of'
it, 1 know only about a dozen things in law. But If
know how to produce the whole lot, no matter what’
they ask me.” Fox, by the way, “read” for a,
while with B. R. Wise.
“Dick” O’Connor, the High Court Judge who died
the other day, earned his first bread and butter—
or, rather, butter to add to the parental bread —by
writing for the old Echo. His father wasn’t afflu-
ent; he was Clerk of Parliament. After -he had
graduated, O Connor kept himself going while he
studied law. Besides leader writing for the Echo
O Connor wrote much for the Freeman’s. The Fair-
faxes allowed the Echo to become fainter and fainter •
and finally die ; hut the often-threatened Freeman;
hangs on tenaciously, and ranks now as the second-
oldest paper in Sydney.
One of the luckiest (if it wasn’t a long-sighted)
shots made on the Inky Way in N. S. Wales of late
was scored by one Lincoln, who, dropping out of a
billet in the dry back-country, drifted to Sydney and .;
naturally sniffed the wet ocean at Manly.' Lincoln
reckoned that the reason the suburban newspaper
was almost always a drab commercial failure was
that the public had to pay for it ; wherefore it got
no circulation, and consequently no advt.s. He de-
cided to plant himself at the picnic place, get a
circulation by distributing his sheet gratis, and trust
to luck and advts. for his revenue. From all ap-
pearances both luck and advts. came his way i-n
large lumps. The worst feature is that, charging
nothing for the sheet, Lincoln doesn’t go to any
trouble to make it worth more.
* * * #
“Hamer”: Sydney Telegraph is a distracted organ
these days.- It is living in an unkind and out-of-
date community, which won’t allow a good citizen
to project a building 200 ft. into the air of Sydney. .
It owns a verv valuable block of land at the 'corner
of King and Castlereagh streets, and it wants to do
some tall building itself; but that, of course, has
nothing to do with the case. Nevertheless, it illus-
trates the tall buildings of New York, to show how
lovelv tall buildings are; and it has searched
almost eVery journal in the world for articles in
praise of cloud-ticklers. Once or twice or so a week:
it refers to the perfidy of the Herald, which used
to think well of tall buildings, hut changed its opinion
just about the time the Telegraph’s project was
announced. Hence the consistent Telegraph reader
is now in a position to give details of all the lughest
buildings in the world, their beauties and their ad-
vantages. And the consistent Telegraph reader is
getting sick of it. To be forced to swallow at least
one building from 20 to 40 storeys high every other-
day is calculated to give nearly anybody indigestion.,
Bathurst (N.S.W.) National Advocate had a hard*
struggle in a State where everybody is encouraged
to think that everything ought to he bought in.
Sydney. Founded to. barrack for Protection in a.-
district that will in time benefit enormously by that'
pol'cv. it' starved for years on a capital' of "under-
fi. 2500. but has pulled through on that amazingly-,
small amount. Last year it paid 5 per cent, to the
shareholders. This year it is doing the snme, though
it has made a profit of 11 per cent. : so the dividend
habit. looks as though it has set in.
The Inky Way.
After having had Melbourne for its own pie for
just on 20 years, the ’Erald thinks it sees some-
body coming with a knife and fork; and it suspects
the Sydney Sun people. The latter have a cable
service of their own—H. R. Denison, the tobacco
man, who is the Sun’s chairman, arranged with the
Times to have first bite at its columns —and they
naturally want the expense shared by somebody who
isn’t a competitor for the same public’s pennies. The
scheme was gone on with just when the Australian
moneyed man was buttoning up his pockets ; but, it
is said, some people who wouldn’t have to dip twice
to dredge up & 50,000 became interested in the
project; and that ended the financial end of the
trouble —for the moment, anyway.
FUI. LY - OUA 1.1 FIEF>.
Editor Prison Paper: “What do I know
about editin’ ? Why , ain't J the most ex-
perienced thief in ’ere ! ”
“Te Kau”: The Australasian Federation of Jour-
nalists is coming- out -of its dream stage. Recently
the Maoriland Association knocked at the boss’s door
and handed in a demand for more pay and less toil.
The reply of the boss of one of the biggest news-
papers in the Loanly Isles was short and sweet. The
staff was presented with two months’ notice to quit.
The Australian Journalists’ Association, when it re-
ceived the information, promptly notified, all. members
that “certain proprietors and managers of news-
papers have resented the proposal for concerted
action for the betterment of emplovment in the
Dominion,” and warned them to get in touch with
the Central Executive before accepting any offers
of employment in M.L. But the most joyous thing
in jokes would be if the staff that was 'given two
months’ notice by the boss took him at his word !


MLGETYS
motor acenacs
POWER.
Power—Reliability —Economy—-are the distinguishing features of the cars we handle.
The most searching tests have been applied to them, and we confident’y state that they
are equal to all demands of the severest daily use.
Handsome appointments and perfect finish distinguish them all. The fullest particulars sent of each and every car.
Any demonstration arranged, which places you under no obligation whatever.
Daimler 15:20:25:33 Austin 10 : 15 : is 24 F.N. 10.14 : 16 24
Cutting 30v Rover 12
“Halley” Motor Lorries
(To carry from 20cwt. to 6 Tons).
Delaunay-Belleville 19 : 27
Commer" Motor Lorries
(Capacity: 1 Ton to 7 Tons).
Agents for the “ AUTOVOX” MOTOR HORN,
the most efficient alarm at present fitted to Cars.
PRICE, complete, Horn and Air Pump, £9/9/-
OALGETY & COMPANY LTD.
Motor Garage:
130-8 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BourKe Street, Melbourne
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay>Belleville,
Napier, BuicK, Lacre Lorries, Halley Lorries.
George Street, Brisbane
Agents for Daimler, Austin, l)elaunay=Belle ville,
F.N., Cutting, Hailey Lorries, Lacre Lorries.
V,
X
V
b*
wmm
K\
X-Xi ' m
V 1 - X “
F
sisSsia
/
Mimms
.. . x v - *«\V»
* 4
..
£2
<2
■
<U
V.
... - "“X-
-£'J
V v
»%*
I /U
,
■,'■’■-*
:o. *
A
\
f/
m
m
•^sSmA.
\ X
h
.
tfcsar 1 i
■—
>-
»-dP v?#** •>., ■ v^w&ci
\
X xii
'
. 1
M H V* iy
S > • *X
gAIfMM'
' I
eli
’
x-x
r
mm
res
‘x *1 ¥;
.
e r*:,.
sisftist
yi ,X 1
->•.• ’*x
::1 ■jj-V •■
■>X ■ .
V


GIRL LAGER
' v '' : / • . ■ ' ■ si ■ ; :' v ' • \'V '• ■r l . -
You should be interested in good
Lager only. “Girl” Brand is
THE FINEST BEER IMPORTED
/;
'i
te?
S
m
lfr.ru
W
'll
The
Present Problem
Solved
You; can make selection in your own
home in comfort from our
XMAS
TOY & GIFT BOOK
Let us send you a copy —Free —To-day
Fill in this Coupon:
Name.
Address
FINNEY’S
THE DRAPERS OF QUEENSLAND.
BRISBANE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores' in Australasia. Ladies recommend,
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
Signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
Missing Friends.
D OBERT GRAYSON (otherwise Frederick Wilson
v or, Gregory), formerly of Manchester, England,.
and last heard of in Sydney about 10 years ago, or
.anyone knowing his whereabouts, communicate with
“Executor,” c/o Gordon and Gotch, Sydney. Some-
thing to his advantage.
ILLIAM GEORGE KENNY, late of
Darriville, and son of George Kenny,.
Solicitor, Dublin, last heard of in Walhalla,
write brother John, Leongatha, Victoria.
ELS WORTH, HARRY A.
LATE of Brisbane, and formerly of Bal-
larat. Left Brisbane 1910. Heard of
at Bourke (N.S.W.) December, 1911. Sup-
posed to be at Roma, or Charlesville districts
with bore contractor early 1912. Write at
once. MOST IMPORTANT. Or anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communi-
cate with FRED ELSWORTH, c/o Burton
and Co., Ltd., Auctioneers, Toowoomba
(Q.).
BROWN. —Information is required as to
GEORGE KENNY BROWN, who
formerly lived at the Crescent, Clontarf,
Dublin, Ireland, was afterwards in the Cape
Mounted Police, and later in Australia.
Reply to ARTHUR GEORGE JOYCE,
Solicitor, 12l Stephens Green W., Dublin,
Ireland.
TO SAMUEL HELTON, late of GUNNADORAH,
1 near ADAVALE.—AS SAMUEL HELTON de-
serted me and family of six children since the Ist
day of September, 1905, and not having heard of or
from him since that date, I wish to state that it is-
my intention to remarry, if I do not get reliable
information of his whereabouts within three months
of this date.
Dated* at Adavale this twentieth day of November,
1912 ’ MARY HELTON,
Wife of abovenamed Samuel Helton, Adavale.,
jj)PvN!\.NP\IAND JLjl
An Ethnological Item.
[For The Bulletin.]
One girl, who brought a message from her father
asking me to a picnic, was as beautiful as any Jady
in a European ballroom. —Professor Macmillan Brown
on the Pacific Islanders.
The King was sad, and in his belt
He tied an extra knot or two,
And groaned : “My daughter, if you knew
How really very ill I felt.
You’d wander out and hither bring
Some tasty tit-bit for the king!”
And, oh, the daughter’s hair was long
And golden as the paw-paw fruit;
It seemed her lips had pilfered loot
From red hibiscus buds ; a wrong
were to call her glowing eyes
Less turquoise than the tropic skies.
The lava-lava round her waist
Was wrought of crimson tapa cloth,
Totemed with many a silvern moth
That no more fitly could have graced
The loveliest lady of them all
In some Parisian festal hall.
At least sp thought Professor Brown—
Macmillan labelled, of that clan—
Who looked as but professors can,
Without desert of Wowser frown,
When sailing through Pacific seas,
To solve abstruse ethnologies.
The princess, too, thought much the same.
“This chubby scientific gent
Is suited just to Daddy’s bent,
He’d fill quite well the regal frame,”
She murmured to herself, “and cause
A hungry twitching in his jaws.’’
The way of maids has ever been
A riddle to the wisest man.
But when, behind a palmy fan,
She smiled to show the pearls between
Her coral lips, who could decline
Her invitation up to dine?
Professor Brown, since he returned
To tell the story, had no wish
To grace a regal picnic dish.
Discretion, doubtless, he had learned
Full many a time and oft before
From reading ethnologic lore.
For me, bad I been on the brig
Beside the very learned Brown,
You’d never see me back in town. 1
I’d else have been the choice “long pig"
A dusky monarch served up hot
From out the regal bouilli pot,
Or (this the likelier far) I’d own
A lovely palm-girt coral isle
That I would rule in latest style
With Her to share my bamboo throne,
Whose golden tresses hanging down
Delighted Prof. Macmillan Brown.
QUEENSLAND.
Kuscobin.
Last month, on leaving Brisbane, going
north, the Chinese crew of the ship Alden-
ham was mustered as usual by the Customs
officer; and, although the true complement
answered the roll call, he noted that two
of them had aged strangely since the ship’s
arrival. Notwithstanding the bosun’s vol-
uble protests that the change was due to
Enoggera water and the demoralising influ-
ence of picture shows, the Customs man
smelt a rat. Inquiries showed that the
strangers were old-time Brisbane Chows,
who, being desirous of burial in their native
land, had exchanged with two youthful
Pagans having no present use for a grave
in China. Subsequent police court pro-
ceedings cost the ship £2oo—the price of
two Hop Ons unlawfully let loose on the
Commonwealth.
The Australian Freedom League—the
quaint cranks who have the idea that, when
an enemy wants to enslave you, your best
plan is to hold up your wrists, so as not to
put him to any trouble in fettering you—'
had a great demonstration in Brisbane the
other evening. Brisbane rolled up in
throngs, until there were nearly 50 people
present. Most of the speakers, as usual,
said they didn’t object to Defence; what
they objected to was “the new and un-
British principle of compulsion.” The
stupids can’t see that all along they have
been compulsory contributors to the coun-
try’s Defence. They have had to pay their
taxes; and some of the taxes have gone
that way. They didn’t object to compulsion
when they could hire somebody else to do
the defending ; it’s only when they have to pre-
pare to do a bit of the defending themselves’
that they dig up the beautiful “British”'
principle of anti-compulsion. Yet, some-
how, the world has a habit of holding in con-
tempt the kid who won’t steal the apples
himself, but isn’t above meanly hiring an-
other kid to do it.
“Don Q.”: Queensland’s Cabinet is not a
happy family, and early alterations are
pretty certain. The story about town is that
Minister Appel is the square peg in a round
hole, or the round hole in a. square face, or
something like that. Also, the demands for
the recognition of H. D. Macrossan are not
making Premier Digby Denham’s temper
any brighter, and Minister O’Sullivan is,
stated to sleep with the whistle of the guillo-
tine in his ears. .
Denham, having pushed his Liquor P»jfl; a t
second time through the Assembly, now fjfujK
himself confronted by the Bung party
Council. Bung is not only potent: in, tjha
Queensland Fossils by virtue of direct retpe-
sentation, but also in the fact that two lead-
ing :dailies which barrack for Beer (Bring
being a mighty advertiser) have each their
own special Peer to emphasise their opinions
in the Gilded Chamber.
For the edification of the Macgregor, the
boys of Rockhampton danced the Highland
liing in kilts. llisjEx. then drily remarked
that he had in the bourse of his travels seen
a great many savages go through their
national dances, but it struck him, to speak
freely, that the.nearest approach to barbar-
ism he knew of “was perhaps the Highland
fling in costume.” After- this shall pro-
bably have some other sacrilegious Scot
affirming that the nearest approach to the
Papuan grassmat or the/South Sea lava-lafya
that he lias ever noted is the kilt itself, while-
the Gaelic tongue is a first cousin to the
language of the Hottentots. ' $
Another instance of the glorious consist-'
ency of the anti-Socialistic farmer was given
last week by a deputation that, waited on
Premier Denham, with a request that lie
would take over a recently-subdivided estate.
This land was offered to the Government
for resumption, but, according to 1 >o, Imm.
a gentle syndicate got in before ;he had time
to accept the offer, cut the land up and sold
it to sundry farmers on the usual “advan-
tageous” terms. Now the. farmers find that
the syndicate is not quite the philanthropic
institution its sale advts. led them to believe
—among other things they are paying 6 per
cent, on balances, whereas the Government
charges only 5 per cent. Denham didn't:
promise he would comply with the request,
though he made a few remarks about “lafjtd
jobbers” which will probably hurt the feel-
ings of some of his most ardent supporters.
IN THE GA Y OLD SUMMER TIME.
“/ hear your new minister preaches i)sry short sermons.''
“Rather / He simply points to the. thermometer and advises, the congregation to- think
(if the hereafter /’
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 28, 1912.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
The week has placidly floated by on a back-
wash of monotony. Governor Macgregor,
with the Foxton aide, went to Toowoomba
on Tuesday, and got a shakedown for the
night at that hospitable homestead, Talgai.
On Wednesday night, the Needhams, of Can-
ping Downs; provided a bunk for the vice-
fjegal sundowner. At odth places he took
a>. keen interest in harvesting operations ; but
he let it go at that.
Church fetes and similar mild outbreaks
have been occurring with a persistency worthy
of a better cause. The Macgregor launched
one to-day, and the Rutledge ladv did simi-
larly on Wednesday.
The Mayor and Mayoress of Brisbane dis-
tributed the placid and uncomplaining bun.
in the-Museum Gardens on Thursday after-
noon, and several hundred citizens were
there to rend it. For the operation, the
Raymond lady wore grey, which seems to be
her favorite tipple in tints, tier hat lay
over to the breeze under another of the
raking ostrich feathers of which she seems
to have an entire crop. Premieress Denham
was also in grey, Mrs. Barnes and Mrs.
Macartney were in white, and little
Mayoress Burke looked slim and graceful in
black. The bun was in its usual covering.
President J. A. Robertson and his prettv
wife were entertained by the members of the
Brisbane Club at an “At Home” on the
Koopa on Wednesday night. Why. with
a. i-tropical climate and a handy river, more
of this method of entertaining is not rushed
T cannot guess. The affair was a distinct
success. A band played on deck, bridge
tables were arranged in the saloon and the
supper was spelt with a capital S.
lhe one awkward circumstance was lack of
unanimity in the dressing of the guests
home wore evening clothes, some garden
party attire. Others, with a view to pos-
sible drowning, or in a praiseworthy spirit
of economy, had come in what seemed to be
their gardening togs. But everybody en-
joyed the party, which is something in these
days of harassed women folk and their pam-
pered male dependents.
All the Society bridge players and alleged
bridge players gathered at Mrs. Denham’s
dwelling last night, to play cards and swell
lhe funds of the Cr&che and Kindergarten
Judging by the number of guests the CrSche
may now open a banking account, and buy
itself expensive cradles. Mrs. Pagan and
her pretty little daughter, ex-Mayoress Did-
dams, and Mrs. D. S. Reid, were among the
workers.
Miss Mackintosh, Queensland’s champion
lady tennis player, and daughter of Donald
Mackintosh, M.L.A., was married in Pitts-
worth on Wednesday to solicitor Macfar-
lane, of those parts. The moon-itinerary
will include Melbourne during the Davis
Cup week.
This afternoon the members of the Auto-
mobile Club lent their cars to the good
cause of the children, each vehicle racing
to Manly with a consignment of kiddies from
the charitable institutions. The same kindly
persons had gathered up sufficient of the
needful to feed each guest to repletion, and
provide toys. Secretary Service and his
band of helpers worked like Trojans, and
over 250 little ones had a time that will be
written in red on the Book of Memory.
The only unpleasantness of the day was
when one of the cars unexpectedly parted
company with its hind wheels, and drunkenly
stood on its head. The driver, a woman
and her paralysed little daughter, and a
small and unconcerned youth were thrown
through the atmosphere for some distance
and butted the earth with great violence. The
net results to the butters, however, were
merely a few cuts ' and scratches, which
almost leads one to adopt an Arab-like belief
in Kismet. The driver, when recovered
from the wreckage, was wearing the glass
screen of the car after the fashion of a
necklace or a bullock yoke.
The gentle game of croquet absorbed the
attention of most of our Very Best on Mon-
day afternoon. In the intervals of play and
tea-sips, the women croquettes discussed the
personal appearance of their dearest friends
in the true spirit of charity, or as near as
women can get to it.
Miss Williams, a much-certificated lady,
has been appointed to the Girls’ Grammar
School here. Besides her English qualifica-
tions, which are numerous, she was a lec-
turer at the Melbourne University and erst-
while head mistress of Rockhampton Gram-
mar School. Despite her certificates in peda-
gogy, she is reported to be ouite tolerant of
mere human affairs.
Dr. Doyle is health-seeking in your city.
Mrs. Doyle, who is one of our handsomest
matrons, is travelling with him to see that
he gets the right brand.
It is rumored that one of our prettiest
and most daring Society girls has at last
accepted the diamond forerunner of matri-
mony from a sprig of English nobility.
Apart from the nobility business, he is a
widower of about six months’ experience.
Another engagement, in which the prospect-'
ive bridegroom is a very recently-bereaved
husband, is between an elderly banker and
a lady well known in the musical world.
Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher, of Urella station,
will leave next week on a trip to Colombo.
Yours affectionately,
Australia Jane.


mMM
wm
66
n
tufyd
1 JIIIJL/ 1 JWL
. ■
■
its
■
!
4 ' il
ft.
%
■
.
r
IP
r/»
as
3
w.
&
wmM
i
’A
/
Hi I
Ptsi
I
/
il
■tjw
Jldfl
I
S
.n.
m
%
-
2
s
V A
m
hs
W‘
W *gSXfflm
mm
wjm
V
A'
m
m
■
mm
U 1
.
/
w
A
IgagllP 5
&
I FI /Of iIS
mf
f m 0
MS
••' * ,
/if
1. IP
Bi
.
A
•4 AfpP
V A
IMP*
M
B' J
AS
■
IV #
r
m
ssiMSS
ii
‘
H
0
*
«


Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
Shipping.
Pm and O*
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, LIZ 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 11l
William Street.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Pi, ace, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of Dew Z ea l an d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other planes.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
TN€ »B€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
Third-class only. All steamers fitted with Wireless.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £45. £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£llo (First-class each way);
£B2 (Second-class Orient).
Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable with Holt s
Blue Funnel Line. .
Third-class Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with P. and 0. Branch Line.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY. LTD.. Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
s.s. COOMA,
S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, Wallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE I
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY >■
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping’ at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports. J
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
T.S.S. Warilda (7713 tons),
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, December
21, carrying: Ist and
2nd Saloon and Steer-
age Passengers- Also
January 18.
S.S. Marloo, Nov. 30.
S.s. Wollowra, Dec. 7.
S.S. Grantala, Dec. 14.
Shipping.
of Rorth Queensland
LI IVII TED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Si.v, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Y'arwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . 413,590 14 6-
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.GG9 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— Vi. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years ar.d over, at the rate of 4£ per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance Cua.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, J >inr Managers.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
EIRE. ACCIDENT. WORKMEN’S COM-
PENSATION. PUBLIC RISK. BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DTRRCTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Katek, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibus.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soctak.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tilf.y, W. 11. Piniiey.
London Office: IS Birciiin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; lion. H. S.
Littleton; X. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. r - r ~ ■■■■
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Bow, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents Rtid Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,060.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
ravelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “Pearl of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any point in
the UNITED STATES or CANADA.
ROUND THE WORLD TOURS,
First and Second Class.
ROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning
from Vancouver via Honolulu, Suva and
Auckland, or via the Orient.
STEAMERS SAIL—
TAHITI,
JAN. 25.
AORANGI,
DEC. 28,
MOANA,
NOV. 30.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
"Victoria.”
‘Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND LOUTS,
lIOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN R.M. LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS:
* Displacement, tons—Niagara, 20,000; Makura, 12,200 ;
Zealandia, Marama, 10,500.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. T. PRISKE, Commander.
Will be despatched from —
BRISBANE
SYDNEY ..
MELBOURNE ..
ADELAIDE
7th DECEMBER
14th DECEMBER
17th DECEMBER
24th DECEMBER
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. ..£4O to £45. £l6/16/-to £lB/18/-
(4-berth.) (2-berth.)
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE, leaving Sydney 3rd January.
T.S.S. SUFFOLK, leaving Sydney, 21st January.
ALL FITTED WITH WIRELESS.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT k CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITII, McEACIIARN & CO., Melbourne
and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & 00., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
TEN DAYS TO LONDON
FROM SAN FRANCISCO.
Sydney to San Francisco in 19 Days.
Via Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu. Saves 3000
miles ocean travel. Includes: South Sea Islands,
Yoseinite Valley, Rocky Mountains, Grand Canyon,
Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS.
ROUND WORLD TICKETS issued to return by
all Suez and Cape Lines. Round Pacific Tickets,
Covering China, Japan, America, and Islands, at
Low Rates. For Rates of Passage and Freight apply
OCEANIC STEAM SHIP CO.,
14 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel., 2282 City.
JUJ.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Service
To Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
By the Up-to-date Steamships
“ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
*■ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
“ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
(Fitted with Wireless.)
“ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
“ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
And other well=known Steamers, fitted with all
conveniences for the comfort of passengers.
Tickets interchangeable with other Inter-State
Companies.
Also First-Class Return Tickets to Melbourne, Ade-
laide and Brisbane available for return journey by
Rail under certain conditions.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers....
Further information on application to —
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, II BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted fre , 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 ueorge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to three months, and
costing £5 to £25.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1317.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
£8,085,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buclcland, Esq.
D1KE0T011S:
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. Mackellar, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq.; Shepheard Edpecliff Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office-George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
Victoria 37, Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.


mmm
fttVinlfH*
ISlsw!
ill
EORGE HOTEL,
Ait. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, VV.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR'S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by alf Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London, -
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
i
I
■sanoq 8f
n|
VB-
Each Capsule bears the name
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA, for
Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, 1/- and 2/(5.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7110).
Avoid the counterfeiter (same ease, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, VV.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
■
;
. *
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
cation. Only address
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
You cannot Cut Yourself with.
The Figaro Safety Razor
Finest Hollow-Ground Razor
with Attachable Safety Guard,
ueeds no Adjustment, Shave*
Close and Comfortably. Make*
Shaving a Pleasure. Just the
thing for a man in a hurry. You can share
with the greatest freedom in erery direction
wiiliout risk of cutunir [he skin. Only 6s. 6d., inoludmf
uosunre anywhere. Mon-V buck after a week’s trial if you say
so THE ONION CO 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
ATMOSLITE
AIR-GAS
LIGHT.
In Atmoslite, the
brilliant, economic,
safe and hygienic air-
gas is found lighting
comfort, safety and
economy for the home-
stead, farm, church,
etc.
The system is auto-
matic, self-contained,
easily installed, simple
and durable. Write
for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
AUSTRALIA'S LAItGEST
LAMPIiOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizab°tH st.. Melbourne. ,
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re-
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Commonwealth
SP 3
Advice Free by our
Veterinary Surgeon.
SHARPE & SHARPE,
A BOOK FOR
Sportsmen.
“TURF MEN and MEMORIES.”
A History of Racing:
for 25 Years.
CAREERS OF POPULAR -JOCKEYS, OWNERS AND TRAINERS.
INTERESTING STORIES AND ANECDOTES.
FIGHTS AGAINST LONG ODDS.
HOW WINNERS ARE MADE.
CONTAINS PLATES OF CUP WINNERS, ETC.
Price 6d. Now Ready. Just What is Wanted. 200 Pages. Price 6dm
Unlike anything hitherto published. All Lovers of Sport Should Read It.
6(1. Obtainable at all News Agencies and Bookstalls. 6d.
Or Posted from the Office of “The Herald” and “Weekly Times”
Limited, 162 Flinders Street, Melbourne, for 6}£d. in Stamps.
•Ml
r..\
C-)
40
40
»/
r %M*
f
THE
world’s
BEST i
Bank of Australia.
GENERAL BANKING DEPARTMENT.
BRANCHES WILL BE OPENED AT AN EARLY DATE IN Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane. Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, also Canberra
(Federal Capital) and in London, for the transaction of General Banking
business. SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT,
AGENCIES NOW OPEN AT LOCAL POST OFFICES throughout
Victoria, Queensland, and Northern Territory.
AGENCIES WILL BE OPENED IN ALL THE OTHER STATES OF
THE COMMONWEALTH, including PAPUA, in January, 1913.
Deposits received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three per cent, per annum on all deposits up to £3OO.
December, igi2. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
Fur Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Looal Director.
HORSE 8 CATTLE
DRENCHING BIT.
Sharpe’s, English Pattern.
Nickel-plated, with light detachable funnel having
lid to top and stop cock at base ; stout leather bridle,
cotton rope.
Improved mouthpiece ; as diagram.
POST FREE 18/6 Anywhere.
Other kinds at 7/3 & 16/= post free.
WRITE FOR VET AND KNIFE LIST.
Summer
18 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Suits.
We are showing
a very tasteful
range of Suitings
for this Summer,
and in cases
where customers
cannot call in,
will post samples
on application.
The keen farmer judges by results
The
Conclusion
If the price
is above the
average, the de-
sign, materials,
workmanship,
and construc-
tion, must be
incalculably
above the aver-
age; otherwise
this enormous
sale would be
impossible.
StU
Agtnts
tm
Here is a
Proposition
The Melotte
Separator is
placed on the
market at a cost
slightly above
that of the
average cream
separator.
The
Result
The Melotte
has the largest
sale in the
British Empire,
and an annually
increasing one.
1
• V
m
m
Mm
n
i
■ '■■l
Si
tifm
m
si
■'■'.V
\
DAVID BKAHAM 8 CO..
Tailors and Costumers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite “Evening News.”)
Box 1281, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
s= iiflsi. (* mmwsA'
M )s ; i @i
The
Secret
lies in the fact that
once installed,
the Melotte
produces an
increased yield
of the best
cream and butter
throughout a
lifetime of con-
stant use with
practically no
further outlay
for upkeep.
SEPARATOR SALES Co. L td
BRISTOL, ENGLAND.
New South Wale» : W. S. Friend & Co. Sydney.
Queensland : Clark & Fauset, Brisbane.
Victoria : T. Robinson & Co., Propy.,Ltd.,
Melbourne.
k Xmas Gifts?
A little thought will prove to you that
the “Onoto” is the ideal Xmas gift for
father and son mother and daughter,
friends near and far.
F''7 a fountain Pen is so useful—and when it is an “ Onoto," s,.'
? lasting and reliable that it cannot fail to awaken appreciation. v
It runs smoothly and evenly over the paper—never scratches or
splutters—never gives trouble—NEVEß LEAKS. Moreover you'
, can fill the “Onoto” Pen in fire seconds without mess. Just pump
from the inkwell—no filler is required. The “Onoto” will write 2U.U00 x,
words without refilling—-the nib is pure gold—"iridium pointed and cau*
not wear out.
Self-Filling- Safety Fountain Pen
Price 12/-, and in a variety of more elaborat®
styles for presentation purposes, at all stationers',
jewellers' and stores.
Booklet about it free from Tho 3. De La Rue <fc Co.,
v 206 Buuhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
IK Representative, ISoeman Baker, 50 York Street,
llPv _ Bydney.
CREAM
SEPARA-
[ “TOR


What
You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have something to
say worth hearing do iiot take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.” —William Ewart Gladstone
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
—— tp- of World-Wide Fame
reaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
554 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Pees can be ascertained on
aripti'T'mn at ■ or bv letter.
STRIKE ONIYON THE BOX
ass.
I&
*n
; *;v v'iJ^C/v
iliSiil
a
■
mm
#K<
S&'S
j«v
Bryant & May, Bell & Co.’s Safety Wax Vestas com-
bine the advantages of both ordinary wax and wood
matches, without their disadvantages. They readily
strike and ignite, giving a strong and lasting flame —
a match that you can only strike on the box. No
more bush fires now.
Grocers and Stores everywhere stock them.
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
Craig; &l Aitßen,
THE FOLLOWING ADVERTISEMENT WAS TENDERED TO THE MELBOURNE “AGE” AND
REFUSED INSERTION.
Misreoresentatioik Corrected.
READERS of the Age are invited to Compare carefully the following extracts from an Age leader'
November 16 with the subjoined extract from Hansard:—
THE “AGE. - ’
But now. and then temper rises, and there are acid
exchanges.... These always reveal character.... On
Thursday Mr. Kelly gave to Mr. Fisher one of his
customary pin-pricks. .. .Mr. Fisher, stung by the
little fellow’s jest, said, “AVhat an impertinent littfe
boy you are.” The quip evidently smarted, and Mr.
Kelly, not having any other retort handy, said: “The
Prime Minister was only a working- miner, and now
apes the culture of a Chesterfield.” It was but a
momentary flash of temper, but it was enough. It
revealed the essential snobbery that lies at the back
of a mind which considers the-calling of a miner the
nroner subject of personal reproach.
The Age, ever since I felt it to be my duty to call attention to it;
commentator upon, public affairs, has, to the best of my knowledge, i
accurately nor criticised me fairly. T therefore, adopt this means to
to accept as coming from me anything - it may put into my mouth,
the facts before being influenced by its criticisms.
Federal Parliament House, Melbourne.
5 character as a reporter of, and
lever once reported my utterances
ask its readers for the future not
and to acquaint themselves with
W. H. KELLY.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in ail of the larsrest and most successful links in America,
and by all the'Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how tc open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
J)o You Long for a Full Moustache?
CAPILLARINE
will auiekly help you to cover voi>r. upper lip.
it has a 25 Years’ remarkable record, and simply cannot fail. Just
follow the simple directions. Test it to-day! Price 10/6 Jar, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER ( worn at night) shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Be a Man and
Look a Man by
GrowingaManly
Moustache.
“HANSARD.”
Mi-. Kelly: Did the Prime Minister suggest to the
Chairman that we should reassemble at a quarter-
past 2 o'clock ?
Mr. Fisher: No.
Mr. Kelly: Did his Ministers?
Mr. Fisher: No.
Mr. Kelly: Why was not that information given
before ?
Mr. Fisher: What an impertinent little boy you
are.
Mr. Kelly: Good heavens! Here is a man win
glories, in his electoral advertisements, in being a
working miner, arrogating to himself all the graces
of a Chesterfield and a Beau BrummeL
Mr. Page: It is a terrible crime for him to have
been a working miner. That is one thing in which*
we glory.
Mr. Kelly: On the platform, yes. But here it is a
matter of Chesterfieldian behavior.
Mr. Chairman: I must ask honorable members
not, to interject.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
McLucas Gold Mines
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL £lO,OOO in 40,000 Shares of ss.
each, of which SOOO Shares are Fully Paid
Up and 32,000 Shares are Contributing, pay-
able 6d. per Share on Application, the bal-
ance of 4s. Od. rs payable by way of calls as
may be required, but not to exceed Two
Pence per Share per month.
McLUCAS GOLD MINES (locally
known as Blackfellow Reef) are situated at
the head of Pikes Creek. 25 miles N.W. from
Dalveen Railway Station, containing 20
acres leasehold. Crusliings have given as
high as Boz. per ton. with an average of
3oz. Bdwt. for 200 tons. This is
verified bv recent Assays giving Boz. Bdwt.
per ton. About 3000 tons mixed quartz have
been raised and stacked at the mine. A
Report and Survey, hv Mr. F. W. Thomson.
Mining Surveyor and Engineer, is attached
to the Prospectus obtainable from members
of Stock Exchanges, or E. Steele, Secretary
nro tem., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. The
Provisional Directors are: Messrs. D.
Sheahan, Sen., Stanthorpe ; and G. Critten-
den, R. Rosenstengel, J. Sunderland, 11. C.
Pointer and G. Feldmann, of Toowoomba.
Tenders.
MELBOURNE HARBOR TRUST.
""TENDERS are invited until 11 o’clock a.m. on
'* Tuesday, January 7, 1913, for WIDENING THE
EXISTING WHARVES (20ft. 1 at Victoria Dock,
along the North Wharf Road and Mountain Street.
The widening is to be along the roadside of the ex-
isting wharves,, and to be generally of similar con-
struction to that already completed at No. 1 Berth,
Victoria Dock. Tenders are to include the supply of
all labor and materials required, including timber,
and are to be submitted for: —
A. A length of 1500 ft., from the western end
of No. 2 shed at the eastern end of No. 6
shed.
B. A length of 1920 ft. from the eastern end of
No. 6 shed to the north-eastern end of No.
12 shed.
C. For the whole length, about 3420 ft.
They must be on the prescribed (blue) forms, with
schedules attached, and the specified instructions re
tendering must be strictly adhered to.
The lowest or any tender will not necessarily be
accepted.
Specifications and drawings may be seen at the
Office of the Commissioners.
A preliminary deposit of fifty pounds ( £5O) in
cash or banker’s cheque must be enclosed with the
tender, which shall be endorsed “Tender for
Wharf Widening,” and addressed to the Melbourne
Harbor Trust Commissioners.
Bv order.
R. RUDD, Secretaryv :
605 and 607 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
November 15. 1912.
NEW CLUB BUILDINGS,
Flinders Street, Melbourne,
For the
Commercial Travellers’
Association of Victoria.
TENDERS are invited for the following
WORKS :—-
1. Mechanical Ventilation and Heating.
2. Hot Water Radiators.
3. Vacuum Cleaning Plant.
4. Two Electric Passenger Elevators,
One Automatic Passenger Elevator,
Two Service Elevators, and Two
Goods Elevators.
Plans, specifications, and all particulars
may be obtained at the office of the archi-
tects,
11. W. and F. B. TOMPKINS, F.R.V.1.A.,
115 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 4th November, 1912.
Royal Military College of Australia.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Assistant Professor of Modern Languages.
Particulars regarding such position may be
obtained on application to the Secretary,
Department of Defence, Melbourne; the
Commandant, Royal Military College, Dun-
troon, Federal Territory; or the Military
Commandants, Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart.
Applications are returnable not later than
20th December, 1912, to the Commandant,
Royal Military College.
S. A. PETIIEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
Amusements.
TII KAT It E ROYAL, SYI)N E \ .
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
DRAMATIC SPECTACLE.
B E N H U R.
MUSICAL ENSEMBLE.
EXCITING EPISODES.
MAGNIFICENTLY PRESENTED INCIDENTS.
AUGMENTED ORCHESTRA AND FULL CHORUS.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction, J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE THEATRE GOOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50,
THE QUAKER GIRL.
Fourth Week of Crowded Houses.
Not a Revival, but a Suivival.
Play produced by Wybert Stamford.
PLANS AT PATJXO's
National amphitheatre, syonel
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
TOMMY ARMSTRONG & PRISCILLA VERNE, the
Popular Double, in Patter, Singing, and Dancing.
LES RINCH, the Wonderful Danes.
MR. C., in his Funny Stories and Tenor Vocalising.
VIOLET BLACK & GO., in TELKA, THE HALF-BREED.
MAUDE COURTNEY, in all New Items.
ROY RENE, Australia’s Only Yiddish Boy Comedian.
JOE HURLEY, the Mimetic Comedian.
I) EBP II I THEATRE. SYI>N E Y.
k Direction and Management, Gicono u Marlow, Ltd.
A BEWILDERING SUCCESS.
THE SENSATIONAL WOMAN’S PLAY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
The Great Coal Mine Sensation Drama, entitled
WHAT WOMEN WILL DO FOR LOVE.
A Stirring Play of Everyday Interest.
ENTIRELY NEW AND DAZZLING SCENIC EFFECTS.
Prices : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/- Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
JHE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
QLACIARIUM AJfID OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROEN S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
RICKARDS' TIVOLI THEATRE.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CRAWFORD & HOW AI IDE. TOM DAWSON.
THE THREE KELTONS, America’s Musical Trio.
WILL WHITBURN. THE RALLIS & WILSON TRIO.
NELLA WEBS, the Incomparable American Disease.
THE MAX FRANKLIN TROUPE, Acrobatic Artists.
DE BIERE, a Delightful Entertainment of all ihai is
Fascinating in Magic. VAUDE & VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s*Theatre.
OP Elt A HOUS E, MELIiOU It X E.
Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
THE THREE SISTERS MACARTE, presenting their
Spectacular Seena, “ The Land of the Lotus.”
MISS FLORENCE BAINES, the Lancashire Comedienne.
PAGE COMEDY CO. in “ A Curate’s Misadventure.”
CLAIRE ROMAINE, Male Impersonator.
ALBERTO MARINI, late Tenor Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
BORNEO GARDINER, Phenomenal Siffleur.
TAYLOR & ARNOLD, Rag-time Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
ItOYAL,
MELBOURNE.
8.
*J" II EAT RE
EVERY EVENING, AT
First Production of
GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD
Presented by a Brilliant Band of Comedians.
PRICES —Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stails, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
Reappearance of
W. ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in
An Entirely New Version of
THE CHDLSTIAN.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 30.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
in
The Thrilling Storv of a Prince and Peasant Girl,
THU KIJNG’iS ROMANCE.
Prices 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
FOR THE FIRST TIME HERE.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in
NIGHTBIRDS.
Adapted by Gladys Unger from Strauss’s
“Die Fledermaus.”
Plan at Allan’s.. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, (i/-
MELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE.
Direction : GREGAN McMAHON.
At the ATIIENA3UM HALL, COLLINS STREET,
FRIDAY & SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6*7,
Bernard Shaw’s MAN AND SUPERMAN.
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10 : Galsworthy’s THE PIGEON >
preceded by Shaw’s
THE DARK LADY OF THE SONNETS.
BOX PLAN NOW OPEN at the PIANOLA CO. and
BOOKLOVER’S LIBRARY, COLLINS STREET.
FAULKNER SMITH, Business Manager.
Ft. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
OREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
PRINCESS COURT, ROCKHAMPTON, NIGHTLY.
Direction amalgamated pictures
lth.
IV!
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace,
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Piinces Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock,
3d., 6d. and 1/-
EVENING PRICES : 2/-, 1/6,1/- and 6d, Plan at Allan’s.
OL Y M P I A. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SBEN CEB’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
A/E ST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
he best WEST’S PICTURES,™ best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
IGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
iie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
nv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
verv week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran. Vic.
EVERY 7 NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC! ORCHESTRA, fid. to °.s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caffi.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Trice. 6d.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO


LET
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap
take its part in your everyday
toilet—to keep the skin in good
condition, to remove all traces
of perspiration and to protect
against infection.
Your local Chemist or Stores
sells it in 3 tablet boxes.
Makers:
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
is§
THB
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99=101, York Street, SYDNEY.
And all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
Th sc. /•»
COPYING
r ZANETIC
Zanetic Pens, 3d. doz., 2/- gross. Zanetic Writing Paper, size
8x 5, l/-pkt., 10 x 8,2/- Sample of the Zanetic Ink paper which
produces this result, Free, if stamped envelope sent to :
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road, LEICESTER, England.
CL)
II
I
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiib Bulletin.] [5
U NCLAIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
DOUGAL’S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., &c., price
5/-, 480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
DOUCAL&CO., 151. STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND.
f JSstabHfihp.fi. ovpr 60 Years.)
ASTH MA CURE
GHIMAOITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIHMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold, by nil Chemists.
The Celebrated
r
Pianos
'A
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as you write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying’*
The letter js posted and the book
put away. 400 Octavo (8 in. by 5)
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
in N.S.C./200, Post Free for 3/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S.C./400, Post Free, for 6/-.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. 3/• Post
Free; or double capacity 4/3.
«< J>
One Koh-i-noor
outlasts six
ordinary pencils
and does better
work all the time
It’s a real pleasure to use a
“ Koh-i-noor” Pencil —such a
velvety touch it has, so durable
it is. Some people don’t trou-
ble about the make of Pencil
they buy, which is a mistake.
Is it not worth while specifying
“ Koh-i-noor ’’ and thus secure
a Pencil which writes smoothly
from beginning to end, does
not break, and outlasts six
ordinary Pencils ? Be wise—
get a “ Koh-i-noor ” next time
you buy a Pencil.
In 17 degrees and Copying.
Also “ Koh-i-noor ” Propelling
Pencils for the Pocket.
Of Stationers, &c„ everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
KOH-I-NOOR HOUSE, LONDON, ENGLAND.
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 T< *r 10 -
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Holds the World’s Record for Largest Bonuses.
All participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department previous to 31st December next will share
in the Cash Bonus for the current '-ear.
Cash Bonus divided for the year 1911. . . . . . £888,911
representing 38.9 % of the total premiums received during the year.
Total Cash Bonuses distributed . . . . . • £16,853,102
Paid to members or their beneficiaries . . . . £35,262.848
Insure at once and so participate in the profits of this purely Mutual Institution.
Full information obtainable at the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office, or from
any Agent of the Society. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
RICHARD TEECE. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Schuie, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place,
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to —
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Cr. LEICESTER & QUEENSBERRY STREETS, CARLTON, MELBOURNE,
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
ASK YOUR WIFE
Being charged with the duty of assuring the maximum of comfort, at the
least possible expense, she appreciates the advantages of a perfect lighting
system, which is absolutely safe and clean.
SHE KNOWS
that the installation of a gas service means the saving of an untold amount of
work and worry, and, more than anyone else, realises the benefits of having
a gas stove and bath-heater always ready to help her through the continuous
round of household duties.
The Immense Saving Effected by
QUIRK’S AIR GAS
is alone a very important factor, for it is far cheaper than any known lighting
agent, while —being non-explosive and non-poisonous—there is no need to be
constantly on one’s guard against accidents.
THE SIMPLICITY IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MACHINE
assures reliability, and obviates the necessity of any skilled attendance.
The Company send their own Experts to install the system, and no payment
is asked until the Customer gives his certificate as to satisfactory service.
A BOON TO HOTEL PROPRIETORS and those in charge of premises
conducted for the accommodation of the Public, which patronises
those who study its comfort.
Directors:
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
VAREXO
UNIVERSAL
DROPPERS
(Patented)
•re not weakened by holes or slots.
THEY WILL NOT SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
Sell on Commission only.
Now and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
'T y
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Limited,
117 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles, as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by talcing the strain off them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds, right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
fW
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
to cure you. Only a miracle, could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for' Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
orderTform.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovorei<m s sent, you must register it.
WHEN ORDERING
ALE-
Insist on
‘Bugle
Brand’
FOSTERS
AT THE BAR.
ANYWHERE.
EVERYWHERE.
Electrics
Be»t“BULLS-EYE” ELECTRIC POCKET LAMP
with latest improved cell PRICE 5/-, post free anywhere. Press the
bntton and a brilliant light is immediately obtained. Fits hand and pocket.
Extra cells. 1/9; post free. Send postal note (mentioning this paper) to:
STAR NOVELTYCO.,229 CollinsSt.,Melboume
HIMPOD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
pr
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, i f
you have lost
the heari ng-
nerve c o m-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
ISEO


Marvellous Discovery
By Great German Scientist.
NO MORE DANGEROUS MOSQUITO BITES.
After one application of “MOSQUITOLINE” no mosquito or other insect will trouble you. Protected
by this wonderful liquid, you can even sleep in the open without a net. Mosquitoes will shun you as
you would shun the plague. Quite agreeable to human beings, but obnoxious to all insects.
IVlade Sleep Impossible, Tried Cuti-
cura Ointment and in Incredibly
Short Time Cure Was Complete.
"About twelve months ago while residing
at Newry, Gippsland, I was very much
troubled with my feet. They were highly
inflamed and on raising the foot off the
ground it seemed as though someone were
searing the soles with a red-hot iron. There
was a constant itching which was very trying,
particularly at nights as it made sleep im-
possible. I tried all the largely advertised
remedies, such as ointments, soaps, etc.,
but all these acted only as so much water
might have done.
"I was advised to try Cuticura Ointment
which I did and am pleased to say that in
an incredible short space of time the inflam-
mation had disappeared and the cure was so
complete that I afterwards engaged in foot-
ball, an idea which in my former condition
was the height of absurdity. I have also
used the Cuticura Ointment for boils and
find that it. is highly satisfactory and best
of all, completely eliminates the usual dis.
figuring marks. I have also used Cuticura
Soap and would not think of washing with
the old adulterated, impure rubbish which is
wrongly called soap. I wish you would pub-
lish this letter so that other sufferers may
benefit by my experience,” (Signed) Gus
Forde Long, 282 Dorcas St. So. Melbourne,
Vic., Mar. 26, 1911.
Skin-sufferers! Do you realize that to go
through life tortured and disfigured by itch-
ing, burning, scaly and crusted eczemas, or
other skin and scalp humours is unnecessary?
For more than a generation, warm baths
with Cuticura Soap and gentle applications
of Cuticura Ointment have proved successful
in the most distressing cases, of
children and adults, when all else had failed.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold through-
out the world. A liberal sample of Cuticura
Ointment, with a 32-page book on the care
and treatment of skin and hair will be sent
free on application to R. Towns & Go., Dept.
3K. Sydney, N. S. W.
THE DISCOVERY.
The world owes much to the
researches of that well-known
scientist —Dr. Gunther, who
has for many years labored
in Central Africa and India
in order to discover a potent
compound that will combat
the deadly Mosquito. At last
these years of effort have been
crowned with success, and he
has produced a very pungent,
altho gh pleasant, liquid that
repels Mosquitoes and other
insects as though they had
been shot from a gun. This
liquid he has named “MOS-
QUITOLINE.” It is quite
harmless to human beings
and animals, but insects can-
not live near it.
FOE TO INSECTS.
MOSQUITOLINE not only re-
pels the attacks of mosqui-
toes, but gives absolute pro-
tection against stings and
bites of Wasps, Ants, Gnats,
Bugs, Fleas and Flies. After
one application you will be
completely immune from the
attention of these pests.
DR. PAUL GUNTHER.
DANCER OF BITES.
It is common knowledge that
mosquitoes carry such death-
dealing germs as Malaria,
Marsh Fever and Ague, and
every time they bite there is
the possibility of infection,
which may lead to serious
illness. MOSQUITOLINE will
protect you from the ravages
of disease, even though you
sleep without nets in the
worst malarial districts.
LIFE WORTH LIVING.
With the discovery of MOS-
QUITOLINE, life is now pos-
sible in all parts of the
world where mosquitoes pre-
viously held complete sway.
One can now sleep in the
open without stuffy nets or
curtains, and during the day
attend to work —even though
the region is swarming with
insect life. MOSQUITOLINE
is positively invaluable where
insects have been wont to
make life unbearable.
HOW TO OBTAIN A SUPPLY.
MOSQUITOLINE is sold in bottles at 3/6 each, three bottles, for 9/6, or six bottles for 18/-,
postage free, and can only be obtained from the Sole Agents it cannot foe ofotained else-
where*. Special rates will be quoted for Hospitals and Public Institutions. Send Postal Note for
supply required to ___
Frederick Bateman Company,
Desk 1 f 107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Va
A CHRISTMAS GIFT
in the form of a
"SWAM SAFETY”
FOUNTPEN
never fails to be highly appreciated by
any and all.
It eliminates all writing
troubles such as blotting,
leaking, scratching. It
looks well and works
even better. It out=
lasts all other gifts—
that’s why it is such
a popular gift.
r
v-er
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see tjie alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s oj.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred. Ardley (Registered In the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Sold by
all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free from Makers.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., London,
or J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham
Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
[i
Drink Wisely
fl
W Ul 111 IV VTI3CIJ
Lime-Truit Juice.
I don't care two straws for any but
MONTSERRAT Lime Juice.
It’s a fine healthy, cooling, and refresh-
ing drink, and keeps me fit in the hot
weather.
MONTSERRAT is sold by
all leading Storekeepers.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
'he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a pharm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
tiWrcar
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/14. 2/9 & 4 lb. Made in England.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Relief Permanent Cure.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
surely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress —cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
as*!!
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd, Otter Works, MANCHESTER.,
ENGLAND. >
EengeFs Food is sold in Tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
B9OA
Giddy extract from the proceedings of the
Baptist Union in Melbourne: —
One delegate said that “if a conscience clause was
desired in matters of defence, why not in matters of
dress? Men, at any rate, could not dress as they
liked. One gentleman in Sydney had walked the
streets attired only in a toga, and this he was soon
made to drop.”
“Loud laughter”—of course !
An “honorable understanding,” or some-
thing even more Trust-like, is to arrive
shortly in the fancy-goods trade of Britain.
There are about 20 important firms in the
line, and 12 of them, with a capital of a
million, are concerned in the combine move-
ment. The list of British Trusts is pretty
large already; but when it is twice as long
and three times as wide, Freetrade cranks
will still assert that only Protectionist
countries breed animals of this variety.
“Inkslinger” : After long and often painful
observation I classify the N.S.W. Assembly
this way: Most brilliant, Holman; eloquent,
Meagher; analytical, Wood; humorous, Alf
Edden ; bumptious, Dave Storey; garrulous,
Fitzpatrick ; silent, Brinsley Hall; wealthy,
Onslow; offensive, Henley; the biggest,
Stuart-Robertson; smallest, Paddy Mina-
han; oldest, Harry Levien; youngest, Simon
Hickey.
“D.” : Statists are busy pointing out that
in England a high drink rate is invariably
accompanied by a high marriage rate. The
more John Bull boozes the more he marries ;
and Bacchus, not Hymen, should be the god
of matches.
That marriages in Heaven are made
Is still preached at the Empire’s hub.
In truth, we’re very much afraid,
The real match-factory is the pub.
What hope for temperance in the land
Where, as is proved in statist’s ink,
Drink drives the men to marry, and
Then marriage drives the men to drink?
Occupations of the men who, by ballot,
have got the use of the first State-built
houses at Daceyville (N.S.W.) : Laborers
(3), driver, mechanic, tramdriver, _ commer-
cial traveller, stereotyper, enginedriver, car-
penter, trucker, wharf laborer, compositor,
cigarmaker, furnace-men (2), draper, black-
smith. And the following are waiting for
houses to be finished: Clerk, policeman,
storeman, watchman, bookbinder and sewer
miner. The managing Board is now asking
for £425,000 to finish the job ; and in four
years Sydney ought to see a garden suburb,
with 100 ft. avenues, tree-planted streets, no
railings in front of the houses, and pleasant
surroundings generally.
“G.” gives a testimonial: —
A word for Frank Tate, Director of Education of
Victoria, and one of the best-abused men in Aus-
tralia. No man can escape calumny who steps to a
high position over the bald heads of his seniors, or
who scotches the waster and loafer. For 13 years
Tate has been the butt of anonymous muck-chuckers
in the Age and Argus. Some years ago he said (it
was injudicious perhaps, but absolutely true) that
there were too many decent duffers in the service.
The “decent duffers” revenged themselves by abuse;
and now some brilliant brain has evolved the new
nickname, “Dick Tate.” Clever, isn’t it? But the
man has won for education much that is good, much
that is progressive. Let me note a few things: (1)
Secondary schools established all over Victoria; (2)
the University is open free to all teachers; (3) such
useful subjects as agriculture, sloyd, cookery have
been added to programme; (4) “payment by results”
has been abolished; (5) teachers laid aside by
disease now receive humane treatment; (6) promo-
tions come by merit, not by seniority.; (7) a free
track has been opened from State school to Univer-
sity. Further, Tate has not, like his predecessors, been
content to be a rubber-stamp for signing orders and
instructions. He has gone out among the schools
day after day, and met teachers face to face and
man to man, studied their disabilities and tried to
remedy their ills. This screed is drawn from one
who admires a man when he meets one, even if he
should be his boss, and is offered as a counter-blow
to the drivels of the decent duffers in the Daily
Dustbox.
“Locust” : The Austrians, who are about
the best-licked nation in the world, have been
butting in on the Balkan question, and ap-
pear to be going to try to keep the little
mountain States out of their gold mine—if
the taking of Constantinople and access to
the Adriatic and the Aegean constitute a
gold mine. A combination of a couple of
States like Servia and Bulgaria, flushed
with success through donkey-licking one of
the best fighting races ever known, could
simply romp into Vienna in about a month.
Frederick the Great territorially enriched
and made his family out of the spoils of
the beaten Austrians. Bonaparte chased
them out of Italy, then went after them to
Vienna, lived in their King’s palace, and
married their King’s daughter—married her
afterwards. Italy drove them out of the
Venetian provinces. And Prussia tried its
new military system on the Austrian dog in
the ’6o’s. Withal, they loolc good soldiers.
I was in Vienna during the Turko-Grecian
war in 1897; and 100,000 conscripts, fine,
strapping tall fellows, used to march past
our hotel window every morning, starting at
five o’clock. But they seem soft as a
nation, for evidence of which read Baroness
von Suttner’s “Lay Down Tour Arms,” a
peace-society document which, in novel form,
inculcates the blessed doctrine that, in order
to avoid the horrors of war, the only course
is to trust to the kindness of the person
over the border. Some idiots preach the
same insanity here.
A meander through Old Sydney:—
Casey’s Hotel, on the corner of George and Liver-
pool streets, has changed hands at £30,000. This
pans out at £BlO per foot on the George-street
frontage, or £ll 11s. 6d. per square foot on the
block (37ft. x 70ft.). About three-quarters of a
century ago Alexander Allerton established himself on
this site as an ironmonger, and continued, in name at
least, until 1874, when John A. Kean opened the
Liver Hotel there. Kean was followed by Jacob
Orth. Casey succeeded Orth in 1887. Daniel
Cooper’s property, in the same neighborhood, also
went at auction last week. It was a little bit of
Market-street, 41ft. by 58ft., which formed the east-
ern end of the allotment on which Cooper and Holt’s
Waterloo warehouse stood—a corner now occupied
by John Hunter’s boot shop. The tenants (Sargents,
Limited) bought the 41ft. for £15,000. The old
AVaterloo warehouse, just mentioned, stood back from
the alignment of both Market and George streets. On
the latter frontage the alignment was conserved by
posts and chains. The eastern part of the building
was in later years occupied by J. B. Holdsworth,
ironmonger; still later the Evening News occu-
pied the site. On moonlight nights a small tribe of
aborigines used to come into Sydney and camp under
a big fir, which still stands at the head of Roslyn-
street, Darlinghurst. If they stayed in overnight
they used to hang about the Waterloo warehouse in
the day. This tribe, very reduced in number, came
from Botany; its best friends were Tom Buckland, a
partner in the Cooper business, and John Williams,
the Crown Solicitor, who occupied a house on a
knoll near the fir tree. The house still stands. The
Riley estate, AVoolloomooloo, was not then cut up
into streets, and only a bush track led to the heights
of Darlinghurst.


THERE’S THE TYRE FOR YOU!
OR\
SC
Ssr
sec
m
V*.
p- ?<£
ori
o. L
bVc
cS
Pi«s
sr t
oG
,Vfc
Ct<
oC
03
oV
G 0
uC
Oo
C(
oG
o*»
C-G
goC
goC
Co oG
/>> o G
C/O
o<
Ob
O oG
OG
C/G
CGC
gG
GO
OG
0> oG
G G
GO
GG
GGf
OC
GC
ax
Vooc.
GG
gg
gc
be
bS
O CO
gg<
GO
be
GC
y\
O c
GG
GG
£
cc
'/s
GC
GO
coc
cc
cc
p<
c>nQ
cO 0
GO
to
C£
C /
cc
neC,
r*f*
O C
Os:
O 0(2
OCG
r*c\r.
r'S"
/•pp
The
“SEMELLE” NON-SKID
(1) is the safest Non-Skid you can fit to your car, and (2) is efficient as a Non-Skid until worn out.
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained from all the leading Garages.
(46)
r“ The Top Notch of Scotch/’
Ring
George IV” j
Scotch Whisky.
Ripe in years. Rare in quality.
The Distillers Company Ltd. Edinburgh*
t SYDNEY—AngeI Place.
MELBOURNE— S 2, William Street.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
You know that Bovril possesses
peculiar powers of building up the body.
Never accept a cheap substitute.
Insist on having
BOVR I L
By Appointment to
His Majesty the King.
**
Socks and
Stockings.
The AH-Australasian-Wool Hosiery with the
softness of silk. And unshrinkable, too!
If only you knew the soft silky fleeciness of you
would not be satisfied until you wore them. They are a
revelation in footwear. All-wool, rendered absolutely un-
shrinkable by the fipon,
process, which retains the natural
softness of the fleece. They never shrink —never become
too small to wear like ordinary hosiery does. Made to fit
snugly and dyed with fast sanitary dyes. cost no
more than the other kind, so why not have
Stockings. Socks, and Underwear for Men. Ladies, and Children
In all prices. made Jerseys for children are splendid
wear. Of Men’s Outfitters, mmmmr Drapers, and Stores If your dealer does
not stock he can omain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason" booklet and name of nearest agent io
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <g>
LECTURES ON BRITISH COMMERCE,
including- Finance, Insurance, Business, and Industry.
By the Rt. Hon. F. HUTH JACKSON G ARMITAOF,-
SMITH, M.A., D.Lit.. ROBERT BRUCE, C. 8., etc. Preface by the Hon. W. PEMBER REEVES
Demy Bvo, 295 p.p. English price, 7/6 net.
GOLD MINE ACCOUNTS AND COSTING.
Bvo, 93 pp. English price, 5/- net.
A Practical Manual for Officials, Accountants,
Bookkeepers, etc. By G. W. XAIX. Demy
Of all principal Sydney booksellers.
Londoni_Jlß_MAAC PITMAN &. SOfiS, Ltd., 1 Amen Corner, E.C. [2
'T'HE BEST STOBJES written in Australia appear in THE
1 LONE HAND each month. Pklce Sixpence.


The BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
SMOKE.
SUNOU
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette.
“GOLDEN KEY’’
/
&
V i
yj\ i\\v
Jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
Cigars de Luxe
(made in England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
ail Co n no i sseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths—
MILD and MEDIUM.
Packed in HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
They Surpass all others In QUALITY, FINISH,
DESIGN and WORKMANSHIP.
vz®
1
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Cut Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
The
Perfect
Pipe
.Tobacco.
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
9 NOQNOI
diISNOg 5 ?
siaaoug
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
22/6
POST
FREE.
Price O I
irO|
each
(Post Free).
Price
per 100,
Post Free.
In Plug or Gut.
Try Sample Lot
of 5 Cigars,
packed in Cedar
216
61-
per lb.
Post
Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Box
Post Free.
Save “ GOLDEN KEY ”
Bands for Prizes.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—City, Suburbs
and Newcastle
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, with the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction ; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. But there is one supremely effectual remedy,
but for which the world would have been a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopoeia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
for more than a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
C7>
Congo Roofing is a tough,
pliable water-proof felt. It
can be laid by unskilled la-
bor, and will give ten years
of faultless service.
That “ten years” is ab-
solutely guaranteed by a
free Surety Bond issued with
every roll by the Royal
Exchange Assurance of
London.
Further details on request.
Congo Damp Course is a
tough felt somewhat similar
to Congo Roofing, which is
immune from deterioration
by dampness or acids. It is
used for lining the exterior
foundations of buildings to
exclude dampness and ver-
min. It is made in various
widths and is easily applied.
It is the most economical
kind of underground water-
proofing.
Australian Agents: —Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney;
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid
Elder Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; Millars’ Karri & Jarrah
Hart & Sons, Launceston; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
Noyes Bros. (Melbourne),
& Co., Ltd., Rockhampton;
Co., Ltd., Perth; William
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
o>O
~©>o^v
BK^
©KXss,
eK^'
9
m
: If
ALBERT (Si SON, 137-9 King' Street, Sydney
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
Each “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend —
No. 105 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) .. fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is: fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of ihig'hly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
nSeetKamrs
Lfifrak;
Is the most perfect Preservative for the Skiu
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/e.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
m
m
UrBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.^I
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOYE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s' Cd.
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dp.. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
tiie Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted/ Women’s Secrets, is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, is posted. Tiie W aybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save iyour cash, iff - Established So Years.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr., Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciikvasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONeW
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
L,ound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.


STOMACH TROUBLE
A Carrier’s Suffering from Nausea, Belching, Heartburn,
Headache, etc.—The Penalty of Rough Living.
Mr. Janies Green, a carrier, of St. George,
via Dailey, Queensland, tells of his suffering
from terrible stomach trouble, and his
cure by the great standard remedy, Bile
Beans, for the benefit of fellow sufferers,
as follows:—“ Being a resident of the
bush,” says Mr. Green, “and following
the occupation of a carrier, I have often
been forced to camp under my waggon, and
live on hard fare such as corned beef, soda
bread, etc., and this, combined with the
scarcity of green vegetables, had the effect
of upsetting my stomach. In addition to
this, and to make matters worse, I was
particularly partial to strong tea, and
the inevitable result was bad digestion, which
greatly played up with my health. My sleep
became disturbed, and I was troubled with
nausea, heartburn, wind, belching, occasional
headaches, poor appetite, fulness after
meals, and constipation. Knowing Bile
Beans to be the standard remedy for all these
ailments, I procured a box, and they proved
an efficient remedy—toning up my stomach
and system, cleansing the bowels, and giving
me immediate relief. The wind, nausea, headache, and other nasty symp-
toms from which I suffered, have entirely left me, my freedom from which is
solely due to Bile Beans. Bile Beans are a handy, useful medicine for those
of my vocation to carry about, as they take up little room, and are easy to take.”
“AS A BLOOD PURIFIER THEY ARE SPLENDID.”
Mrs. Rose Miller, of 69 Goderich Street, East Perth, W.A., says: Head-
aches and severe bilious bouts upset me at intervals, and for some time 1 was
in a very run-down state. Although I tried various remedies, none of t'hoon
proved satisfactory for my case. I commenced taking Bile Beans, and this
medicine generally toned up my system, curing all biliousness and banishing
the headaches. Bile Beans are a splendid family medicine, and very necessary
in a household. As a blood purifier they are splendid, and for the many ailments
arising from impaired digestion are invaluable.'''
Bile Beans are un-
equalled for bilious-
ness, headache, indi-
gestion, constipation,
piles, debility, bad
blood, bad breath, loss
of appetite, and all
ailments that owe their
origin to defective liver
action. Obtainable
from all chemists and
stores at 1/1} and 2/9
per box (containing
three times the 1/1}).
cans
FOR
t
(
Pears’
Annual
XMAS
1912
The twenty-second issue of PEARS’ ANNUAL is the
expression, as always before, of the very highest modern
attainments in light literature and pictorial art.
Six eminent living writers, touching the imagination in
vivid and varied styles, contribute new stories in their
best manner.
Their names guarantee their work:
MRS. FLORA A. STEEL,
FERGUS HUME, and
ROBERT BARR.
SIR H. RIDER HAGGARD,
SIR A. QUILLER COUCH,
GEORGE R. SIMS,
Artists of similar distinction interpret the stories in a
series of delightful illustrations :
FRANK DADD, R.I. CHARLES PEARS,
R. CATON WOODYILLE, WILL OWEN and
CYRUS CUNEO, R.C.I.
Two humorous full pages in colours,
facsimile of the original drawing by W. Weeks.
=Three exquisite=
Presentation Plates
in large size for framing.
1. Happy as a King, 2. A Rustic Beauty,
W. COLLINS, R.A. W. AFFLECK.
3. limed, not wisely, but too well,
J. SHAW CROMPTON, R.I.
reproducing with fidelity the full range of colours of the
originals, and fit for the walls of the most refined homes.
The whole in a beautifully coloured and illustrated cover.
Sold by all Booksellers. Agents for Australasia : GORDON & GOTCH.
After Life.
[For The Bulletin.]
SOME night, perchance, in the future,
I shall stir in my grave, awake,
And, shaking the damp mould from me,
Arise for an old love’s sake.
I shall find her altered, I doubt not,
Her wonderful gold hair grey,
Her roses faded and fallen
And blown by the years away,
I shall come to her, greet her, clasp her,
In the light of a pale, cold moon,
And she shall know of my coming
In her vision-sweetened swoon.
I shall say, “I have called and called you,
O Love, through the months and years;
But the world with its many noises
Has shut my voice from your ears.”
I shall know that she hears me, heeds me,
As I stand by her couch the while;
And Dust-and-Ashes shall quicken
Like Flesh-and-Blood at her smile.
I shall say, “In a young, gone, gold year,
With laurel and roses above,
I made you mine by a love-kiss,
And mine by a pledge of love.
“Now, hither I come to claim you.
Speak, dear, is my coming good—
My voice as a lute in your hearing,
My name as a flame to your blood?”
Then she shall arise... and her passion,
That flamed, shall reflame as before;
And we, with our all-time loving,
Once parted, shall part no more.
For the pledge in the old year given,
With laurel and witnessing rose,
We shall breathe in the dark of the
cypress,
And the cool of the graveyard close.
Roderic Quinn.
On Going Down the Bay.
[For The Bulletin.]
N.s.w.
selves back to where Gran’ma--who has
been sitting perfectly still— smilingly awaits
them “Well,” she inquires, did you an
have'a good game?” Too exhausted to
reply, they drop on the sand around her and
moo their faces or stare with hopeless, blood-
shot eyes at the oily, breathless sea. A
sizzling hopr, like a grey lizard, drags by in
almost complete silence. The terrific heat
has at last broken the picnickers, who have
so bravely tried to frolic in the hot sand by
a sea of molten steel. Half-undressed and
wholly beaten, they lie about in postures ot
despair like a band of castaways who have
abandoned hope. .
Suddenly Emma’s young man rises to a
sitting position and points excitedly out to
sea. “ Look!” he says; “look at the breeze
cornin’ across th’ bay!” There are cries of
delight, and everyone gets up to see the dark
shadow sweeping rapidly shoreward across
the face of the waters. In another minute
the life-giving wind gently stirs the two live
ti-tree branches overhead, and lays its
cooling hand on their hot, enthusiastic fore-
heads. Emma’s young man becomes cheerful,
Gran’ma starts chattering, and Emma’s mar-
ried sister revives sufficiently to “lay the
tea things” —which means throwing them
down on the sand. Emma’s married sister’s
husband says they just got half an hour
before they’ll have to start for the boat, and
everybody urges everybody else to eat as
much as possible as they “won’t get any-
thing on the boat, and it’s a long time to
breakfast.” So everyone chews in grim
earnest while the sun goes down, and the
world begins to be bearable. The sunset is
a red blaze of glory, but they all sit with
their backs to it and eat food and the sand
of the beach until they have satisfied their
appetites and satisfied themselves (which
is more than satisfying any mere appetite).
After that Emma’s married sister finds that,
in spite of their efforts, they have a lot left
over, and commands everyone to finish
things. Everyone eats on to satisfy her;
and they keep on satisfying her until the
reddest and greediest infant gives a howl of
rage and disgustedly throws down half a
banana. He is promptly slapped for being
wasteful, and then the caravan starts to
pack up and put on its clothes. A smudge
of smoke far out at sea (Melbourne is a
place of vast distances) heralds the ap-
proach of the boat, and they move off with
many backward glances of regret at the
scene of their ordeal by sun fire. They are
thinking that it will be a whole year before
they will be able to come back and stew and
frizzle in the open, and, in consequence, their
hearts —like their victuals —are heavy with-
in them. As they struggle back to the
wharf in the cool of the evening the people
who have been gasping in armchairs in
darkened rooms during the blazing hours
come out on to the front verandahs and re-
peat that they “don’t know how people can
do it.” I don’t know how they do it either.
Kodak.
The Tributes.
[For The Bulletin.]
IN Melbourne, people ‘ go down the bay.”
“Going down the bay” is a solemn
proceeding involving much hardship
and the expenditure of most of your sav-
ings for the past year. It is, in reality,
more of a voyage than a trip, as most of
the time you are almost out of sight of land,
and the vessel ploughs along while red,
howling infants eat bananas, and their ad-
miring relatives drop the peel down your
neck or throw it on to your book. All the
Melbourne boats have bars on board, and
while Mother eats sandwiches on the top
deck and soothes the savage infant with
biscuit, Dad wanders downstairs where the
liquid refreshment is kept. As a matter of
fact, there is nothing else to do unless you
lean over the side and stare at the land and
try to recognise Williamstown —which is on
one side of the bay—as Port Melbourne —•
which is on the opposite side —and point at
Sandringham, and tell somebody it’s Gee-
long. There are always two or three groups
waving their arms at the shoreline, asking
each other questions, and exchanging igno-
rance for misinformation. The boats only
run in the summer months, so you can gene-
rally reckon on the sea being glassy and the
sun being at its hottest. When the three
hours voyage down is ended, and you land
at a sleepy seaside town, you find the streets
deserted. The sensible inhabitants are sit-
ting in the cool recesses of their shops, lodg-
ing houses and hotels, and when the apo-
plectic picnicker from town, laden with
baskets of food, staggers past on his way
to a patch of shade, they look after him and
his perspiring party, and tell each other
they wonder how people can do it. When
the picnickers have been zig-zagging through
the sand and ti-tree for about half an hour
they strike a tree with two live branches and
a dead limb. The two live branches have
just enough foliage on them to throw a
shadow the size of a match. Gran’ma’
being the oldest, is told to sit down “in the
shade and have a rest.” Gran’ma sits down,
but, as there isn’t any shade, she just bakes.
At intervals, she flaps her face with her
handkerchief and exclaims, “Oh! my good-
ness, isn’t it hot!” Everyone but the infant
—who can’t talk—says it is, and asks her if
she is sure she is quite comfortable. Gran’-
ma—who would scorn to tell any but neces-
sary lies —says she’s perfectly certain she’s
comfortable. Then all hands sit down in the
blistering hot sand and eat sandwiches and
sand, and bananas and sand, and sand and
cake. The second youngest child gets peev-
ish, and, after promising him a “good”
thrashing for half an hour, the distracted
mother, with her hat fallen over one eye,
finally operates on him. Then the sound
of an angry, white-faced woman slapping a
shrieking, red infant makes the white-hot
welkin ring, and the party feel, if possible,
hotter. (It doesn’t throw a gloom over
them. It doesn’t do anything so pleasant.
It only makes them feel as if the sun had
been stoked up a bit more, and all the world
were ready to burst into flame.) By this
time the scrap of shadow under which
Gran’ma was partly sitting has moved away
and the old lady is being rapidly fried to
death in the open. Before the position of
affairs is noticed, she is almost done, and
Emma’s boy—who has worn a thoughtful,
sulky expression all day, and ignored all
Emma’s efforts at playfulness —is sent away
in a hurry for brandy. When he arrives
back, Gran’ma has been moved to where the
shadow is and has “perked up” again, like
the brave old soul that she is. Gran’ma is only
a little scrap of a woman in a faded black
dress and a bonnet that looks like a hand-
ful of feathers, dragged from an escaping
fowl, but 60 years of life have given her,
besides her grey hairs, a disposition sweeter
than any angel’s. So Gran’ma revives, and
looks fresher than any of them. She urges
them not to mind her, and to go on “en-
joying” themselves. Everyone takes off a
few more clothes, and then Emma’s young
man —incited thereto by Gran’ma, who has
been prompted by Emma —starts a game of
“rounders.” All but Gran’ma and the two
youngest infants join in, and get their tem-
peratures up to a perfectly insane point.
They run and flounder about ankle-deep in
sand, until Emma says she feels tired. All
hands then stop playi™, and drag them-
BLENKINS and Blither and I were
riding in a cab. We were proceeding
at a leisurely pace, a fact which did
not disconcert, but rather suited us. For
we were discoursing on a large topic and
a more rapid method of cab locomotion
might have interrupted the flow of- our con-
versation. We were discussing our friend
Jim Tregaskis with much gusto and a super-
abundance of eloquent detail.
“Not a bad old fellow,” said Blenkins.
“Careless with his money; but of course he
could afford to be. Easy to make money in
a good pub. You remember the old Latin
saw at the Grammar School —Pecunia pe-
tenda turn virtus colenda: First acquire a
competency, then practise virtue.”
“That’s so,” said Blither. “Must confess
I’ve always liked old Jim. Sorry his wife
has taken to drink the way she has. Worst
of it is she’s spread the yarn abroad that it
was all Jim’s fault. Said he was making
eyes at another woman, and she wasn’t
going to stand it. Too touchy by half. Of
course Jim ought to ha’ known better, but
he was always a jolly, full-blooded sort o’
fellow*.”
“Wonder what he’s worth?” said the third
man in the cab. “Made 20,000 in the Ellen
Jackson years ago, and did well in some
Cloncurry copper deals. As to his being
careless about money, Blenkins, I never
knew him to throw much away except it
was a sprat to catch a mackerel. Is it a
fact he got hold of Bugaboo Downs?”
“Yes,” said Blenkins. “Took it up in
company with old Theodore Parker, a bluff,
honest, open sort of chap, who was never
suspected himself and never suspected any-
body else. Somehow Theodore got worked
out, and died not worth sixpence, but Tre-
gaskis stuck and flourished like a green bay
tree. Astonishing how many chaps, who
went into biz with Jim, got worked out and
died penniless. Real good business head on
him!”
“That’s so,” said Blither. “Too good
for most of his acquaintances. D’ye
remember the time he ran for Par-
liament against Tony Jimson? Tony
was buttoning for the suoport of the
temperance people, who were strong in the
Bung Bung constituency, and he Poked a
certainty for the seat. Took the coach for
Dingadee, and stayed at the hotel kept by
Jim’s cousin and partner, Bill Tregaskis.
Bill gets a sudden telegram on Monday
from Jim, and before Tuesday night, when
Tony was to address the electors, that noor
devil (who had been fond of the booze in
the past) was as tight as a lord, and the
news ran like wildfire through the consti-
tuency that Tony Jimson could be seen
lying dead drunk in the streets of Dingadee.
Settled his hash, and Jim waltzed in an
easy winner.”
Blither’s reminiscence stirred my memory,
and I told them the story of Jim’s trustee-
ship in the Mackwell estate, and offered to
show them the confidential letters he sent
me when I was helping to raise the money
to get him out of the mess.
We were arranging to meet and look over
the letters when the cab pulled up, and we
stepped out. The clergyman had already
commenced to drone out: “Man that is born
of woman hath but a short time to live,,”
and we uncovered our heads reverentially.
For it was the funeral of Jim Tregaskis, to
whose memory we had just paid such a
sheaf of charming tributes.
F. Born.


HIDDEN DANDERS.
"Gvery
Picture
Tells
T\ Story.
V
K
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET ON “ DISEASES
OF THE KIDNEYS AND BLADDER
URIC ACID is a deadly poison that
is produced in the human body,
and it is the duty of the kidneys to collect
this poison from the blood, and to pass it
safely out of the system, together with
all waste water. But it does not take
much to set the kidneys back, and when
they get behind they cannot right them-
selves without help. The uric acid clogs
the kidneys, causing that dull, heavy
aching in the back, and sharp twinges
when stooping or lifting. It attacks the
nerves with neuralgia and sciatica. It
brings headache, dizziness, languor and
disorders of the urine. Try a good
kidney medicine, if you have any of the
above symptoms. There is nothing else
so prompt and effective as Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and this remedy
has no effect on the other organs,
except to drive out the uric poison that
interrupts their action.
Backache & Kidney
Trouble.
Two Lasting Sydney Cures.
NINE YEARS CURED.
Mr. W. R. Francis, Plasterer, 113 Arundle Street,
Forest Lodge, Sydney, says: “I suffered with severe
backache, the pain was just over the kidneys. I was so
bad that when I had to stoop down it was almost impos-
sible to get my back straight again, and every movement
increased the pain, and I had to knock off work. A
friend advised me to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
saying they had cured him, and he was so earnest that 1
got some. 1 used two bottles, and can safely say that I
am cured. I advise all who suffer with backache to
get Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I feel no pain now,
and can stoop without any trouble.”
Nine years later Mrs. Francis says: “My husband has
been free of backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured him, nine years ago.”
THIRTEEN YEARS CURED.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., ex-railway guard, 749
Harris Street, Pyrmont, says: “Some time ago I
strained myself pushing some heavy trucks, and soon
noticed the effect in the small of my back. For three
solid months I was unable to work. I was laid up. I
had a very lame back, and a dull pain through the loins
and kidneys, and my secretions became unnatural and
irregular. I consulted a doctor, who recommended
Turkish baths, but, though I got a little ease, I could not
work. I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills and ob-
tained wonderful relief. I am so much better I can now
do heavy work. I am firmly convinced that Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are a true kidney reniedy, and I
never fail to recommend them among my friends.”
Thirteen years later, Mr. Carroll confirms the above : “I
have been quite free of backache and urinary trouble ever
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me thirteen
years ago.”
DOAN’S
PILLS
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2/9 per bottle
(six bottles, ijJj) ;
or from Foster-
MiClella?i Co., 76
Fitt Street, Sydney.
The Pills of Eternal Youth.
[For The Bulletin.]
7 HE sun had sunk in its crimson bunk
(which means it sank in the west) ;
The ants were bad, and the slceeters,
Gad! were a most prodigious pest,
What time old Young serenely flung this
story off his chest : —
“I never was one who passed the bun to them
there patent cures;
But, nevertheless, I must confess, Smith’s
wondrous pill endures.
While ever a track is dry Outback —while
ever a thirst’s a thin?
With a red-hot throat where jim-jams gloat,
Smith’s praises men- will sing.
“Now Smith was —well, no need to tell what
a chap named Smith can be!
He did not boil the midnight oil in the saw-
bones factoree;
No thing he knew of doctors’ brew ; nor a
cancer from a corn—
But of all the quacks on the Outer Tracks
he was the cutest born.
“Yes, of all the crew —an’ I’ve seen some few
—he was the wisest far ;
An’ because of this he lives in bliss, an’ rides
iu his motor-car.
An’ now what time we all get prime, between
a spree an’ a spree,
Bill Smith abides —I mean resides —in a
mansion by the sea.
“ ’Twas simple enough, the dodge an’ stuff,
that bent his back with wealth,
Though I must confess, to my distress, it
wasn’t the boon of health ;
But just the trick of actin’ slick to grab
Chance by the tail,
An’ to keep an eye on the grog supply—an’
another one on the gaol.
“Decked out in his best, Bill Smith came
west, with a load of largish pills,
An’ he told us straight they’d spiflicate all
our box an’ dice of ills.
Whenever a man like fury ran from reptiles
green an’ blue,
He swallowed a pill retailed by Bill (in
desperate cases, two).
“An’ the cures that used to be produced was
marvellous to see,
If one or two didn’t seem to do, he simply
swallered three!
An’ men who tried to be sanctified ere
Gabriel blew his horn,
Just took a dose from a hundred gross—an’
laughed the saints to scorn.
“An’ them whose ills demanded pills they
swore this sacred truth :
Each held within its thin brown skin the
germ of eternal youth.
It gave to life’s tumultuous strifes a different
sort of hue—
An’ the patients swore they seen no more
the snakes that were red an’ blue.
“From Barringun to the set of sun, an’ east
to the Watershed,
The name of Smith and the fame of Smith
raced countless leagues ahead.
For them who trudged where the Fates be-
grudged a man his meed of breath
Never crossed a door unless they bore
Smith’s antidote of death.
“The caravans steered by the ’Ghans out
from the Naked Hills,
Went sprawlin’ forth towards the north,
their hunches bowed with pills.
The coach that threw the red dust to the
portals of the Lord,
Never turned a wheel till it could feel a
full month’s course aboard.
“An’ you want to know how this was so?
It’s a sorter secret such
As I oughtn’t ter tell, but still- —ah, well, it
cannot matter much ;
For that cute trade Smith’s fortune made,
an’ his mansion you will see,
If you should chance to woo Romance per
ferry from the Quay.
“You see, them pills of Doctor Bill’s that
made men young again,
An’ in a trice brought Paradise, an’ spifli-
cated pain,
Were built at night from a composite by
Smith’s dispensin’ chum —
But (please don’t miss the point of this) :
each pill teas filled with rum!”
NEVER NEVER LAND.
R. J. Cassidy.
Catching- a Train.
[For The Bulletin.]
“ A NYONE want any more breakfast?”
Nell asks anxiously, “because
you’ll miss the train if you do.
The buggy’s coming round now.”
Wheels crunch on gravel and teeth on
chops as we rise simultaneously.
“What horses are in, Bob?”
“Only the one. Doll’s not too fit, and
Sally got away last night, so there’s only
Flytail. Dad’s driving. He’ll have to,! send
her along. She’s as slow as a slug. And
there’s only just an hour.”
Dad shouts impatiently from the trap.
We all tumble out of doors with our bag-
gage. Breakfast is wiped from all mouths
to kiss farewell. The chorus commences.
“Good-bye, Jack! Good-bye, Jim! So
long, old man ! Take care of yourself, Sis !
Have you got the nup? No time to lose!
All aboard ! Good-bye, ma, good-bye ! Mind
the gate, dad. Write soon, Em!”
Then dad touches Flytail, and a parting
cheer from the remnant of the household
coincides with a bark from every dog, and
Dad’s preliminary curse as he takes another
splinter off the gate-post.
We are in the lane. Dad is not my dad.
Not yet. I’m only a visitor. However, he
is Em’s dad, so it matters not for the pre-
sent. Em and I are in front with him, and
the three other girls, Em’s sisters, are in the
back of the buggy. We must catch the
train. It only runs three days a week, and
my billet would hardly keep two days after
the holiday is over. Neither, perhaps, would
Em’s. She types. The young ones don’t
care except for our sakes. They are only
going to school. The station is nearly
eight miles away, and there is exactly an
hour for old Flytail to drag the six of us to
it. An hour, that is, if our amalgamated
time is correct (our watches are all differ-
ent). And if Flytail turns sulky, or shies
into the bridge, or breaks the harness, or if
the train is early, we are 'doomed.
“Won’t she go any faster, Dad?” chips
in Alice. “She’s as slow as a hearse. We’ll
miss it as sure as eggs.”
Dad only says “Rot” to his daughter, but
gives Flytail a tasty flick that wakes her up
f °r a quarter of a minute. We turn on to
the metalled road where the wheels grate
and rattle. After five minutes Dad pulls off;
to the grass at the side, and leans.a thought-
ful ear towards the rear back wheel.
“I told that lazy devil Jack to grease that
wheel last night. What do you think of it,
Ivit ?”
Kitty immediately assumes a seasick posi-
tion over the side, and looks long and listens
dubiously, then glances at Em and myself.
“I hope not,” she says, and, girl-like,
laughs.
' Does it often run hot?” I ask, trying to
speak offhand.
“Not often, but it has been forgotten so
long now. I am afraid it is squeaking a
bit.”
I try to smile, and say: “There’s plenty
of water about, anyway.”
“Yes,” replies Kit. “Flytail likes Water,
too. One Sunday I had the priest from Mur-
ramunga in the light buggy, driving him to
Mass at Wandigong, and Flytail ran into
ha t a,n acre of water at the turn near
Riley s, and wouldn’t move an inch, so poor
Father Doyle had to get out into the water
and lead her out. And I couldn’t do any-
thing but sit and laugh. He caught an
awful cold, too. lie had to say Mass in his
wet boots. Old Paddy Lowrey’s dog had
stolen his slippers out of the vestry.”
I furtively hope that Flytail reserves this
treatment for clerics. I don’t like, though,
the way she glances round from time to
time towards my side of the buggy. And
she is so slow despite the old man’s en-
deavors.
fj a lf the ti m e has gone, and less- than
half the distance. One of the girls says
‘Sh —and clutches her neighbor’s knee to
ensure attention. “I can hear it,” she
gasps. “Get up, you loafing brute,” cries
Dad suddenly and passionately, “or I’ll flog
the hide off of you. Dad is in earnest
sometimes. He whacks Flytail, and whacks
again till she breaks into a gallop. Then
Dad tugs vehemently, and Flytail drops
into a walk. I gaze in awe at the sudden
ardor of Dad, who showers maledictions on
the beast, and jerks it into a most agitated
trot.
My watch shows a quarter of an hour left
when we strike a gunny bag dropped on the
road ahead. Flytail is satisfied. She lunges
wildly for the water at the side, but Dad is
ready and nulls her back on the road, and
then tries to coax her forward. No go. She
nrnn« nnA uk o , , „„ ' T
and Dad (loudlvV curse 6 the day she
was foaled and her dam ancestors and
progenv for aeneratlnnV ’ ancestors and
T , • i a
n , n \? ae of you useless girls, and
the blanky thing off.
Dad is forgetting his manners, but Kit
speeds towards the bag, picks it up, and,
at' ter a fleeting glance, casts it under the
fence. “One of Jack Dunn’s,” she says, as
sbe .springs in. “I’ll give it to him at the
station.”
Jack Dunn is instantly added to my pri-
vate and Dad’s public reproaches. There is
a wonderful quickness of thought about Dad.
He lets * lytail gallop a bit now, and my
STrJSSf&Ssa S*£&S C S2?%S
rr T il di i? ou "i r row tot » i “ rehi^, «-
an undoubted whistle W * hear
Zat i7i , „
a^„ uc * Creek,
~, . • ~
My* 3 arithmetic Mis 7° “spond to an at-
temJt at Llculation Hope K energy are
the only factors left. Mine is the hope, Dad
i s looking after the energy. Em is trying
to smile. The other girls are laughing,
They are young and enjoy a catastrophe.
Kit breaks out: “Hurry up, father; here she
comes. We’ll miss it sure as eggs.”
Em turns pale. Dad goes red. He stands
up, takes the cracker in his hand and with
the handle lays into the now galloping lump
of horseflesh.
I hold on, and hear one girl’s hoarse
whisper,
“Kit, say a rosary. Here’s a book you
left on Sunday.”
The girls get on their knees as far as the
luggage will allow, and a chant arises, Dad
interjecting profane responses,
Dad is standing up belting his hardest.
Flytail is heaving her hindquarters till the
breeching threatens to collapse. The trap
sways from side to side, and the train is
coming. The chant sings in my ears as I
grip my bag, determined to die in posses-
sion of all my worldly effects,
“Damn you, get up.”
Dad is enraged, his beard is split by the
wind, his hat is jammed on tight, and there
is blood in his eye. The girls are wanting to
laugh and cry as they pray fervently in the
back of the trap, while Dad swears hideously
o ut of the front. The train dashes through
the gates ; Dad excels himself, and the girls
abandon appeals to Providence in favor of
a united shriek to the stationmaster. We
round the turn as a whistle spurts from the
waiting locomotive, gallop up the approach,
and fall out of the trap with faint impres-
sions of seeing a dozen grinning farm hands
leaning around, and ahout 30 grinning heads
stuck out of windows. There is a frantic
rush with bags, and coats, and umbrellas,
and dress-baskets, and a ham, and a pair of
galahs, and a dozen pounds of butter, and a
box of eggs, and a tin of honey, and some
flower roots, and six ’possum skins, and a re-
triever puppy. The engine jerks us all into
a heap on one seat, and we see Dad racing
alongside breathless. “I told you you’d
catch it. I never missed one yet. Good-
bye. Remember me to your ma.”
E. P. Gibson.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MODS; PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
-*
am
~aa
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINOHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
New Digestions for Old
—strength for debility—cheerfulness for despondency—health for ill-
health such are the good results following a course of Beecham’s
Pills. If you are suffering from indigestion or any of the complaints to
which it gives rise you will find the World's Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least,
has been the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the psist three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation are some of the many disorders from which. you may find relief
After Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1J (56 pills) & 2 9 (168 pills),
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from to
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q.
wew Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD
N. S. WAI
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
...AT...,
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McYVJLLIAM, Manager
The Experience of Half a Century
IS EMBODIED IN
Englebert’s Lubricating Oils
Sole Agents—
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
1• v: ■' s,
■
* t
Saw Millers, Joiners & Cabinet Makers.
You can now buy your
WOODWORKING MACHINERY
Direct from the
MANUFACTURERS.
KIRCHNER & CO.
Own Offices and Showrooms,
32 Market Street,
PHONE: CITY 7091.
SYDNEY
'
:
22
4? 1
I%'
as
m,
PATENT BAND SAW
1 he
Waverley
is British Built.
J2/I4 h.p.,
4-cyl. Bosch
Magneto,
Zenith Carburetter,
9ft. Wheel Base.
£330 Nett.
The Doctor’s Ideal Car.
Write lor Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycle,
Twin-cyl., 7 hup., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
Metz 22
4-cyl., 22 h.p.,
Friction Drive,
Water-Cooled,
The Finest Runabout in
the World. The
Famous Hill Climber.
£175 nett.
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
ON THE HOP!
jz/fCe^MajL
Sole Agents;
375 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Sang Accompaniments.. Oance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
toy the use of Beil Metal Reeds, which are hand.fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
the; organ toned Melba
3 Sets .Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
rz
THE DANCE KING
Sets Bell Metai Reeds. Price 30/-, Post Fr«a
THE PICNIC MOOEI
g Sats Bell Metal Reeds, Price tse. Post Free- |
4
.
§
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/*
m
m
ECONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with
ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor—Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street* Melbourne,
Aotf slio «t BENDICO GEELONG & ADELAIDE
Write for full particulars to
3*o Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Two Machines for Raising
SAW MILL EFFICIENCY
If you are not making enough profit you ought to determine
why. Mostly it’s inefficient or obsolete plant that’s the reason.
If your manufacturing expenses are too high, get acquainted
with what a “Waterous” band mill will do to give you increased
production at the same rate of “overhead” expense now ruling.
A Planer by S. A. Woods is a wonderful production unit, too.
This machine can cut up to 300 feet a day—with one man
feeding. There’s hot a lost moment to pay for.
Write and let our Mill-efficiency expert send you further infor-
mation. He’s had 30 years studying the problem of produc-
tion.
Te/ephones—City 427 and Centra/ 1441.
T. M. GOODALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 RENT STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Are Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running: Costs.
The “UNION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
RELIABLE and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
PRICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
178 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


DICKS PATENT
ARCHITECTS specify
MACK PARTITIONS
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write.for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
“IZAL” DISINFECTANT
The only Disinfectant free from Carbolic and Cresylic Acids. I lie
most powerful germicide known. The only Disinfectant that is
miscible in Salt, Brackish, Hard or Soft Waters, and any Organic
Fluid. One part of “TZAL” to 400 parts of water makes a perfect
Disinfectant, and destroys all germs and insect lile.
Wholesale depot :
T. K. Steanes, 37=43 Pitt St., Sydney.
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
A Tonic
of
:
Medicinal
Value.
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newall’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
>Vf- .
S®»
»>:■
■■--■ym
■»
S
r“ .Tl
*
ft
5®
[With V Covering, the saving of heat
effected over Unlagged Pipe is from
80 to 85% Write for Catalogues.
LARGE STOCKS carried of Removable
Coverings, Bends, Flange Boxes, Plastic
Covering, etc.
82 Pitt St., Sydney.
Prell’s Buildings, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
_
■ 1
■ I
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Cordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
WARBURTON,
KI.
—r
'
SOLE: AGENTS:
PREMIER ACCUMULATOR CO.
MEDWAY’S SAFETY LIFT CO.
UNION CABLE CO.
N. F. RAMSAY
BERRY SKINNER, LTD.
EVERETT, EDQCUMBE, LTD.
NATIONAL TELEWRITER CO
HAGGIE BROS.
PERFECTA CONDUIT CO., LTD.
SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LTD.
VERITY’S, LTD.
ENGINEERING INSTRUMENTS, LTD.
Self-Oiling Pillow Block.
307-11 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 BOURSE STREET, MELBOURNE.
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD.
WHIPP & BOURNE
DANIEL ADAMSON & CO.
“ KNEW ” FILTERS
Power Transmission Appliances.
DODGE
Pulleys, Shaft Hangers, Pillow Blocks,
Self-Oiling' Bearings, Couplings,
Collars, etc.,
MONARCH VACUUM CLEANERS
PREMIER VACUUM CLEANERS
BLACKMAN SONS.
W.
Adjustable brop Hanger.
will be found in service in all the best equipped and most efficient plants where the value of dependable equipment is appreciated.
„ . „ r .. r.
Their pleasing design, proper weight distribution and finish appeal at once to the mechanical eye.
Send for full Descriptive Price Lists to
Engineers and Machinery Merchants
60 Clarence St., Sydney
'A
Ltd.
SOLE
AGENTS
CHERSEN ROCK DRILLS
SOLE AGENTS*
Best British Materials
and Workmanship
throughout, conse-
quently Low Cost of
Upkeep.
Are the Fastest of all
Rock Drills.
The Simplest in
Construction.
The Lowest in Air-con-
sumption per ft. Drilled.
3
3"
4
16 Equitable Buildings, George St.,Sydnej
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
N. GUTHRIDCE LTD.,
Mining Machinery
Merchants,
