

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW *"H SEGONI).HAND PLANTS ALWAYS A - ..
EXPLOS
BUSINESS MEN WHO TRAVEL
will find that our Head Office and Branches will readily assist them when they need
financial aid promptly and without tedious delay, on business-like. conditions. Our
low rates of interest and very helpful terms appeal to discriminate business men.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. &. I. CO. Limited
Office: 74 Street 74» Sydney,
Opposite National
Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, NiS.W,
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
General Manager.
3-
l—
IJ.
A
fe!
t*
£
DRY
UOBAK.T.
Radley’s Qriei
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
GtJARAHTEKD
</. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
«!!!
I|!!}! «!(! Ill’
mm
mSSmm
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
FineApplc Brand
MAMS ©
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
ĥj
iljL
uunket
h
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
with PALMER CORD TYRES
Appointments, Time and Temper are always kept. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
BECK’S LAGER
BEER
’ v'V "
If ’J
*
Sililllli
• 't i
3* Sgi
* WMm&tr*-
: W&sss^Am*
PABCO ROOFING.
A Roofing that is alike cool in summer
and warm in winter; one that is abso=
lutely waterproof and entirely free from
the troubles of ordinary roofs.
Write us for further information,
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, OH ALUS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
I). S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
hopper waggons.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE 1 CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
CLYDE WORKS
A
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
ĥ
ħ
Sheep Shearing Machinery should be chosen for its reputa-
tion, as well as for its simplicity, durability and economy.
The well-founded reputation of Moffat-Virtue Machinery
among pastoralists and shearers should be considered when
buying your Sheep Shearing Machinery.
Write for Catalogue. Also, all Engines, Pumps, Irrigation
and Water Supply'Plants.
Mat-Virtue
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 BENT STREET
(Opp. Lands Office), SYDNEY.
voS NOOTlarf
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral STARKEY & CO., LTD.,
fll t* «■" «4- A/7 —D<*Anr>t«f tn.a "
The Bulletin
V01.33.—N0. 1696.]
[Thursday, August 15, 1912.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


TEN
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
SPECIAL
INQUIRIES
ATTENTION GIVEN TO
re AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
(new or old).
Clarke, M.: For the Term of His Natural Life, 2/6
and 3/6.
Gordon, A. L. : Poems, 2/6 and 3/6.
Boldrewood, R.: Robbery Under Arms, 6d. and 3/6.
Davis, A. H.: On Our Selection, 1/- and 3/6.
Paterson, A. B.: Man from Snowy River, 5/-
Lawson, H.: While the Billy Boils, 2/- and 3/6.
Daly, V.: At Dawn and Dusk, 5/-
Kendall, H.: Poems, 5/-
Gunn, Mrs. A.: We of the Never Never, 3/6.
Lawson, II.: In thi Days When the W r orld Was
Wide, 51-
Add 3d. per volume for postage.
Where two prices are quoted, the lower is for paper-covered editions.
SPECIAL OFFER: Best Editions, £2 2s. • Cheapest Editions, £1 12s. 6d.
FORWARDED TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE COMM
GEORGE ROBERTSON Sc CO. PROP., LTD., Booksellers, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
h
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s
Eumenthol Tooth Powder should be
used lor the Preservation of the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and
Antiseptic virtues that have made Eumen-
thol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically,
owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the
’ Teeth so wonderfully, and wards off decav
as no other preparation for the Teeth
can or will do.
Sold by all Chemists in tins,, price 1/G,
forwarded post free on receipt of stamps.
HU DSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD.,
1| 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
■HOW TO USE THE POWDER.
CSC
■4s
THE TEN MOST POPULAR AUSTRALIAN
BOOKS.
The Red Page
1. For the Term of His Natural Fife,
Marcus Clarke.
2. Poems A. Lindsay Gordon.
3. Robbery Under Arms..“ Rolf Boldrewood.”
4. The Man from Snowy River A. B. Paterson.
5. On Our Selection “Steele Rudd.”
6. While the Billy Boils .... Henry Lawsoh.
7. Poems Henry Kendall.
8. At Dawn and Busk Victor Daley.
9. We of the Never Never. .Mrs. iEneas Gunn.
10. In the Days when the World Was Wide,
Henry Lawson.
There were 44 valid ballot papers sub-
mitted. In order to provide for the possi-
bility of ties in position on the winning list,
the voting was made preferential by the
system of allotting 10 votes to the first book
mentioned on each list, 9 to the next, and
so on down to the last book, whose voting
value was 1. By both methods of counting
the above 10 books were elected by this
referendum to a place in the permanent Aus-
tralian shelf. The preferential voting
showed striking variations in comparison
with the number of times certain books
were mentioned. Thus Gordon’s Poems,
though mentioned 34 times, was placed
lower on the lists, and therefbre lower in
the affections of those who voted for it,
than Robbery Under Arms, which was in-
cluded in only 29 ballot papers. It received
194 preferential votes to 181 received by
Gordon. The analysis of the voting follows.
The first list shows the number of times
each book was mentioned in the 44 papers;
the second list shows the total preferential
votes recorded by the system already ex-
plained.
His Natural Life .. 42 328
Gordon’s Poems . . 34 181
Robbery Under Arms .. 29 194
Snowy River . . .. 21 104
Gn Our Selection .. 21 97
While the Billy Boils .. 18 110
Kendall’s Poems .. 18 104
At Dawn and Dusk .. 18 102
We of the Never-Never 16 94
When the World Was Wide 13 79
Two competitors named 9 out of the win-
ning 10. Frank Ryding, 21 Cooraminta-
street, Brunswick, Melbourne, missed the
tenth book on the list, and substituted
Geoffry Hamlyn, by Henry Kingsley, which
came 11th —a remarkably close guess.
Simon Hickey, c/o Parliament House, Syd-
ney, missed We of the Never-Never, and
substituted Knibbs’ Commonwealth Year
Book, “if it is a book,” but if not, he placed
Rusden’s History of Australia in the tenth
place. The guinea prize is therefore divided
between these two. *
The selection, having regard to the fact
that it has been made on a popular basis, is
a good one, by which it is meant that these
10 books would appeal to the majority of
Australian readers, and, from a critical
view-point, sum up the essentially Austra-
lian aspect of our literature. By such a
selection Australian literature could submit
to be judged by overseas critics. It is true
that these 10 represent landmarks past
which the newer writers and the newer
Australian spirit have already progressed;
but as a foundation for a home library
these books may be regarded as indispen-
sable. It is noteworthy, too, that only fic-
tion and poetry have found a place in this
list —5 volumes of verse, 2 novels, 2 volumes
of short" stories and 1 descriptive narrative.
Immediately after this 10, the votes show
a sudden shrinkage. The 20th book re-
ceived only 4 votes in the 44 papers sub-
mitted.
The next 10 were
, Votes.
(11) Geoffrey Hamlyn. Henry Kingsley 12
(12) Poetical Works. Brunton Stephens 11
(13) History of Australia.
Arthur W. Jose .10
(14) Seven Little Australians
Ethel Turner 8
(15) The Golden Treasury of Aus-
tralian Verse Bertram Stevens 7
(16) Across Australia Spencer and
Gillen (just published) 7
(17) My Brilliant Career
Miles Franklin 6
(18) Fair Girls and Gray Horses
Will H. Ogilvie 5
(191 David Syme Ambrose Pratt 5
(20) Jonah Louis Stone 4
Three times mentioned were: —
Cook’s Voyages, The Commonwealth Year
Book, Tales of the Convict System (“Price
Waning”), Phil May in Australia, History
of N.S.W. (R. Flanagan), Satyrs and
Sunlight (Hugh McCrae), The Dread-
nought of the Darling (C. E. W. Bean),
Our Island Continent (Taylor), Such is
Life (Tom Collins), A Southern Garland,
Billy Pagan (Randolph Bedford), Joe Wil-
son and his Mates (H. Lawson).
It will be noticed that Lawson is twice
represented on the winning list. He lost
one vote, too, by a ballot paper that simply
mentioned his “Poems.” His Children of
the Bush got 2 votes, and Send Round the
Hat and On the Track and Over the Slip
Rails 1 each. Thus 37 votes were cast for
him as author, which were authors, and not
books, required, would place him second on
the list. Brunton Stephens had two other
of his books mentioned. “Steele Rudd’s”
name included Our New Selection, Sandy’s
Selection and On an Australian Farm.
Daley’s Wine and Roses was preferred by
one competitor to his better-known work.
Boldrewood’s” Miner’s Right and' Ethel
.turner’s Little Larrikin were similarly pre-
ferred. It is noteworthy that Nat Gould
got just one vote.
A sporting contributor, evidently a
member, of the recent Totalisator Commis-
sioner, writes:—
To thir young cove who sweats on the
Bully’s Krimsing paje. Dear Billo: See
as how yer bettin er quid to blobbo on the
bloke who can pick the ten best Australian
Books Here y’are, is my little tip which is
a bit better than O.lv.’s for the last dozen
Newmarkets. (1) Sol Green (2) Joe
lhompson (3) Jack Wren (4) Barney
4i\ ar Sol Bartlett (6) Norman Mendes
(J) Patrick Noses (8) Poses Matrick (9)
Patres Mosriek (10) Moses Patrick.
Righto Cocko, send along the quid as soon
as y like. Blow up two bob ef it with ther
Directors and wallop erlong ther remains to
yers truly. Spoff Abett, Tat ta.
P.S. Dock er box of jujubes out ef ther
quid fer Vandorian with the other two bob.
Irish Folk Plays
The Irish dramatic revival is responsible
for two volumes of Irish Folk-History
Plays, by Lady Gregory (Putnam, per Syd-
ney Book Club). In the first volume, con-
taining three tragedies founded on old Irish
legends, only two, “Grania” and “Kincora,”
are interesting or dramatic. Of “Grania”
the author reports that when she told Yeats
that she had in this three-act play only three
characters, he said incredulously: “They
must have a great deal to talk about.” “And
so they have, for the talk of lovers is inex-
haustible, being of themselves and one an-
other.” It must be put down to the author’s
credit that the reader is not conscious that
the tragedy has been built put of such slender
materials —the talk is too good. You know
the sort of talk; it is found at its best in the
plays of Synge, but Lady Gregory provides
samples such as these :
Grania : They will be forgetting us alto-
gether.
Diarmuid : No, but they will put us into
songs, till the world will wonder at the luck
of those two lovers that carried love entire
and unbroken out beyond the rim of sight.
Grania : That may be. And some night at
supper the men will turn their heads hearing
that song, and will say : “Is Diarmuid living
yet?” or “Grania must be withered now and
a great trouble to those that are about her.”
And they will turn to the women that are
smiling beside them, and that have delicate
hands and little blushes in their cheeks, and
that are, maybe, but my own age all the
same, but have kept their young looks, being
merry and well cared. And Grania and Diar-
muid will be no more than a memory and a
name....
Hear Grania over the dead body of Diarmuid,
bitterly :
It is little I will give heed from this out
to words or to coaxings, and I have no love
to .give to any man for ever. But Diarmuid.
that belittled me, will not see me beating my
hands beside his grave, showing off to the
cranes in the willows, and twisting a mourn-
ful cry.
And Finn, at the end of it all :
I thought to leave you and to go from
you, and I cannot do it. For we three have
been these seven years as if alone in the
world; and it was the cruelty and the malice
of love made its sport with us, when we
thought it was our own way we were taking,
driving us here and there, knocking you in
between us, like the ball between two goals,
and the hurlers being out of sight and be-
yond the boundaries of the world. And all
the three of us have been as if worsted in
that play. And now there are "but the two
of us left, and whether we love or hate one
another, it is certain I can never feel love or
hatred for any other woman from this out,
or you yourself for any other man. And so
as to yourself and myself, Grania, we must
battle it out to the end.
S
It is this passive acquiescence in fate,
surely tenuous stuff for drama, that Lady
Gregory has to build her folk-tragedies from.
Her characters are but dreaming marion-
ettes foredoomed to disaster. Yet the drama
is beautiful in the telling, thanks to the
atmosphere of the Irish language. But
“Kincora” has in it another theme —the in-
herent quarrelsomeness of the Irish, and this
trait lifts this play into action. Brian, too.
is imbued with the never-dying patriotism
of the Irish. His servant, Brennain, exults
over a United Ireland:—
Brian would make Ireland the leader of
the universe! The men of arts from every
part coming to learn their own trade; com-
ing in shoals they would be, like mackerel
on the spring tide! Every smith of a forge
shaping golden bracelets! Every scholar in
a school speaking the seven languages ! Every
village of cabins a city with towers and
walls! Towers, am I saying? No, but
rounded steeples would penetrate the thun-
der in the clouds.... It is Brian will put
his orders on the ocean, on the narrow seas
and the wide! Every strange sail will moult
and wither, getting a sight of his lime-white
sail. He will put his rents on the kings of
the world, they will pay him a heavy rent!
....Rents they will send; and tributes they
will send! Sea-horses having blue eyes,
barrels broke and bursting with the weight
of rendered gold! Elephants’ teeth, hairy
men and peacocks, the same as to Solomon
of the Jews.
Ths quarelling of kings, too, is the
theme of “Dervogilla.” As the song-maker
boasts: —
And if, it is the quarrelling of kings you
want, I will tell you of a quarrelling that
brought such trouble into Ireland, that if a
grain of it could be blown through a pipe
in amongst the angels of Heaven, it would
brifig a dark mist over their faces. I tell
you that if half of all the tears, shed through
that quarrelling, could be sent through a
pipe into Hell, the flames would be put out,
and the hearth of it black-flooded -wi/th
otters!
The second volume contains three tragic-
comedies, of which the first, “The Cana-
vans,” is merely boisterous low comedy, in-
teresting only as indicating how the Irish
of Elizabeth’s time regarded that queen.
“The White Cockade” is more of a play. It
treats of the time just after the Battle of
the Boyne, when James 11. is a fugitive,
hoping to escape to France. The party
arrives at an inn, which is already in the
hands of William’s men; and Sarsfield,
James’s General, in order to save his master,
assumes the part of the king. Sarsfield
makes such a fine figure of a king, with
James cowering in his suite, that his ekn
quence and bearing win over his captors.
His pretence is not discovered till a poor,
dispossessed lady, who is promised the res-
toration of her rights, kneels to kiss Sars-
field’s royal hand. She starts up, crying:
“You have befooled me! That is not the
king’s hand; that is no Stuart hand; that
is a lucky hand —a strong, lucky hand I”
And she finds “the smooth, white, unlucky
Stuart hand” in the person all had taken
for a priest. The fugitives escape to the
pier at Duncannon, and James deserts to
the French ship, leaving brave Sarsfield to
shift for himself. Says one of the charac-
ters :
It’s best for you to fight from this out
for your own hand and for Ireland. Why
would you go spending yourself for the like
of that of a king?
Sarsfield: Why, why? Who can say?
What is holding me? Habit, custom. What
is it the priests say?—the cloud of wit-
nesses. Maybe the call of some old, angry
father of mine, that fought 2000 years ago
for a bad master!
The White Cockade is a delightful comedy,
full of movement and clever characterisation.
Of all these plays it should be the one to
win applause on the stage. “The Deliverer”
is a quaint adaptation of the folk play to
history. It is a sketch of life under the
Pharaohs, in which the captive Hebrews,
toiling under the Egyptian whip, curse and
complain in good Irish idiom. And when
their deliverer, “The King’s Nurseling/’ ap-
pears, they worship this young Moses, and
end in throwing him to the sacred eats —a
dreadful doom. Whether this is a racial
characteristic of the ancient Hebrews or of
a more modern race may be discreetly left
to Lady Gregory. But there is humor in
this folk play, and one suspects that Moses
is meant for Parnell.
- r ♦—,-■■■ - . .■ ■ -
For the scientific reader, with a digestion
for gritty facts, Bedrock, a new quarterly
revieAv of scientific thought (Constable, per
Locldey Library, 2s. 6d.), is recommended.
The first issue contains "Social and Sexual
Evolution,” “Interaction between Passing
Ships,” "Recent Researches in Alcoholism,”
and other bedrock essays.
The Athenaeum (London) keeps on tap a
sneer for Australia. Specimens, from one
issue: “At, best these studies do not rise
above the level of decent journalism, and as
such do not demand the permanence of a
reprint” ( Bush Days, by Amy E. Mack) ;
“Lady Doughty comes to us from Australia,
with proselytising zeal for redeeming our
‘downheartedness’ by the exercise of cheap
and sentimental platitude. She moves geni-
ally from subject to subject, from truism
to truism, from levity to insipidity.” (The
Cheerful Way, by Lady Doughty) ; “Colon-
ial poets seem to fall naturally into the man-
ner of Kipling, or the lesser writers of the
middle of last century.... We feel that Mr.
White must seek his public in lands less ex-
acting and critical than ours.” (Homeland
and (Jutland Song and Story, and ’Prentice
Days, and Other Poems, by H. J. White,
Adelaide.) Justification perhaps in its
criticism of the writers, but no need for the
sneer at a continent.
Cheap editions of American povels, en-
tirely printed in Australia, and sold for six-
pence, are forthcoming from the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co. They compare favorably
with the cheap novel printed overseas. The
books to hand are The Man from Brodney’s
and Truxton King, both by George Barr
McCutcheon.
Verses by Edmund Fisher
Bulletin readers will welcome the col-
lection of light verses made by Edmund
Fisher, and put together under the title,
The Kiss of Dolly Day (Cole, Melb.; is.,
illustrated). In his sub-title he suggests
these “cynical rimes” for recitation —thus
diabolically offering aid to the most danger-
oils species of mankind extant. But if there
must be reciters, a law should forthwith be
passed confining their foamings to this little
book of verse. Fisher has ever a dainty
touch; his verses are neatly turned; his
humor is delicate and merciful; and his
philosophy, gerfial and suave, gives sub-
stance to the lightest of his rimes. The
Kiss of Dolly Day was, indeed, worth writ-
ing about:—
She would shut her eyes and shivCr
When my cheek encountered hers;
To the hugs I used to give her
She replied with gentle, purrs,
Like the purring of a leopard
Feasting fondly on her prey —
Nectar, spiced and cayenne-peppered,
Was the Mss of Dolly Day.
It is mostly about kisses that Edmund
Fisher writes—kisses and the Girl; but there
is no silly vaporing.
But as I knew we had to part,
The scruples in my honest heart
I never failed to smother.
Such loves are holy. In the past
Each seemed more holy than the last —
Then why not try Another?
Of love, he asks, what is it? —or, rather,
what’s the good?
He spoke of love, he told a tale
Of (as ’tis called) devotion.
She did not smile, or frown, or rail,
Or show the least emotion;
Quite silent for awhile she stood,
And then she said, “Oh, what’s the Good?”
And, after all: —
A truce to foolish chatter
Touching shafts from Cupid’s quiver —
Love is just a little matter
That depends upon the liver.
And who is there who has not heard of
“The Billiard Marker’s Yarn’.’?
THE ONE CHARSI WANTING.
I did not know how sweet she was until she
shook her head,
Observing that her heart was still “To
Let” ;
I wept for my defeat, because—as doubtless
you have read —
Man hankers after things he cannot get.
I had not guessed how stceet she was,
How nice enough to eat she was,
Until she answered “No,” the young
coquette.
Anon I won a willing maid; she blushed a
healthy red,
Her palpitating heart was all my own.
But oh! to clutch the “killing” jade—the
one who shook her head,
Whose kiss my baffled lips have never
known.
The wooing and the willing maid,
The cooing and the billing maid,
How quite uninteresting she has grown!
My promised bride is beautiful (the other
wench was plain,
Nor half so bright and clever as Nanette),
Her sentiments are dutiful, she gives no
creature pain—
Now, Laura played the devil when upset.
My promised bride so beautifM,
Intelligent and dutiful,
Will never be tlie girl I couldn’t get.
If Laura came and bothered me to take her
after all,
I don’t suppose she’d find me very glad,
The hugs with which she smothered me
would soon begin to pall —
Her figure’s boldest outlines being pad.
Ah! if she came and bothered me,
And femininely smothered me —
She doesn’t; that’s what makes a fellow
mad.
A LAST BEQUEST.
Oh! let me lie when I am dead
Where ne’er a wattle green
Can wave its branches overhead,
Nor any grass he seen;
Oh! put me not where children play,
I know how they behave,
And want no boy to sneak away
The flowers from my grave.
Not in a quiet verdant nook
I’d pitch my final camp,
And listen to a babbling brook
Which kept my coffin damp.
Let poets prate of stars above —• ,
I could not slumber sohnd
If spoony pairs came making love
Upon my little mound.
No marble slab do I require,
Nor palings that will rust;
Just bake my body in the fire
Till naught remains but dust.
An urn’s the nicest “lonely bed’’
(I’ve one cremated niece),
Oh! let me rest when I am dead
Upon the mantelpiece.
From “The Kiss of Dolly Day.”


w aae
Anthony Horderns’ for Fitted Bag's
No. 1898X—Ladles’ Fitted Dressing Cases, Black-backed
Brushes, 11/6, 13/6, 15/-, 20/- to 40/- each.
pm
m
m
No. 1895X-Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Cases,
Ebony-backed Brushes, 21/-, 27/6,32/6 to 50/- each.
4IWBTT
No. 1896X—Ladies’ Fitting Dressing Rolls, White Xylonit
Brushes, 13/6, 17/6, 21/., 25/-, 30/- each.
mm
No. 1887X—Ladies’ Fitted Dressing Cases, solid leather. Brushes
with White Xylonite Backs, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/- to 80/- each.
No. 1898X— Ladies’ Fitted Dressing Cases,
Black-backed Brushes, 11/6, 13/6, 15/-, 20/- to
40/- each.
No. 351 X—The Grosvenor Leather
Brush Case, containing one each Hair,
Cloth and Hat Brush, also Comb and
Mirror, 22/6, 25/-
-n
No. 1897X—Gent.’s Pitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-backed
Brushes, 3 sizes, 1 8/6, 25/-, 32/6 each.
No. 18430—Pair Gent.’s Silver-backed hair Brushes and Comb, in Solid
Leather Case, Stiff Bristles, Plain Concave Backs, 30/-, 38/6.
No. 1888X— Ladies’ Pitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-backed Brushes,
21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-,' 40/-, to 60/- each.
m
No. 1889X —Ladies’ Pitted Dressing Cases, White Xylonite-backed
Brushes, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/= to 40/= each.
MS S
a ■
No. 1893X—Ladies’ Fitted Dressing Cases, White Xylonite
Brushes, 22/6, 27/6, 30/= to 60/= each.
No. 1891X—Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-backed Brushes, 21/-,
25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/- to 80/- each.
mi
i
No. 1894X—Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-backed Brushes, 13/6,
17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/- each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wHicH excels all otHers
in improving the beauty of the sliin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This Has been tbe
acknowledged and Honoured
position Held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of tHose special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
ar *d impart natural colour to tHe
sKin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in sucH a pre*
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
V f V * 9V VVVVv
n
JL
mm
WINCARNIS
is obtainable
of all
WINE MERCHANTS,
LICENSED CHEMISTS
and GROCERS.
Depot—
Fassett & Johnson,
5 & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
Coleman & Co. Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works,
Norwich, England.
Gives New Life to the Invalid
An outstanding feature in “Wincarnis” is its
extraordinary power in re-creating lost vitality
and giving new life and renewed health to
those who, after a long illness, are left in
a pitiable state of wrecked health and
shattered nerves.
Renewed Strength to the Weak
Every wineglassfui of “Wincarnis” equips
the system with a definite amount of renewed
health and strength that overcomes weak-
ness and exhaustion, and speedily gives to
the whole body a delicious feeling of physical
fitness that is lasting.
Increased Vigorto Brain Workers
When the delicate mechanism of the brain
becomes disorganised by overwork, worry,
or by the ever-increasing demands of
modern business conditions, “Wincarnis”
has an immediate effect in stimulating
the activity of the brain and promoting
additional keenness and increased vigor
to the whole mental system, thereby
ensuring the brain-worker against future
breakdown.
A Wealth of Health to Everyone
To everyone whose health is not as it should
be—to those suffering from Anaemia, Sleep-
lessness, Weakness, Brainfag, Lowered
Vitality, Exhaustion, Nerve Troubles, or who
are merely “rundown”—'“Wincarnis” offers a
wealth of renewed health and a progressive
upbuilding of vitality and vigor that will
make the whole system pulsate with new
Jjfe. Over 10,000 doctors recommend
“Wincarnis.” Will you try just one bottle ?
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Mr. Ocky”: The Federal Woollen Mills come Gee-
long-wards on a site of 10 acres, given free by the
Geelong Harbor Trust —a body whose affairs have
lately been the subject of Royal Commission in-
quiry. The mills will be a few hundred yards from
Osborne House, also given free to the Defence Depart-
ment for the temporary naval college. The cadets
start training there next February. A stone’s throw
off are the Oriental Timber Mills, closed down re-
cently because they cannot compete against cheap
foreign labor, and fiscal sinkers won’t help them.
Geelong has many mills. Seems to be coming, in-
dustrially speaking, provided proper Protection is
given. Willie Watt opened new cement works a few
days ago at Fyansford, named after Captain Fyans,
a big gun in Geelong’s earliest days. Cement works
have aerial cross-country cable to haul trucks of raw
material from Batesford, three miles away. First
overhead arrangement of the kind in Victoria, so
they say. Buckley’s Falls are near by. They get
the name after William Buckley, escaped convict,
who associated with blacks. (If Billy made the falls
he was a bad tradesman.) Used to be plenty of big
fellmongeries along the Barwon banks. Most of them
languished long ago owing to fool policy of Anti-
Protection and no export duty on hides. Raw hides
can still be sent away for cheap foreign treatment,
then be profitably returned here. Tudor or somebody
should stop it. Geelong lost a woollen mill this year
■ —-burnt down, damage .£ 30,000. Firemen only had
appliances to throw a few gallons of water on. No
better off now. Federal mills will probably be burnt
down also.
* * * *
The P. and O. Co. has celebrated the 60th anni-
versary of its connection with Australia. It was
formed in 1837, its first steamer being the William
Fawcett, which was built in 1829. The Chusan,
built in 1852, was the first of the fleet sent to
Australia. It arrived also in 1852, and entered
Sydney Heads on August 3, under steam and sail.
It was a vessel of 529 tons, 80 horse-power, and
capable of providing for 75 passengers. To cele-
brate its arrival a public ball and supper were given
in what was then known as The Museum Great
Room. The toast of the evening was proposed by
Edward Deas-Thomson, Colonial Secretary: “Steam
Communication with Great Britain and the Aus-
tralian Colonies, and may the results which will
follow its permanent establishment be such as to
justify the most sanguine anticipations of its pro-
moters.” But the outbreak of the Crimean War
interfered with the new and wonderful steam com-
munication, and, for a while, it was spasmodic and
precarious. The Great Britain and the great sailing
ships of the ’so’s —the James Baines, Marco Polo,
Lightning, Red Jacket, White Star, etc., etc. —all
earned mails. In March, 1859, the P. and O. re-
sumed running mail steamers under contract with
the Australian Governments, via Mauritius.
* * * *
“0.K.”: When will a committee of public-spirited
citizens organise a Drosecution of the Dago fruit
seller under the Trade Frauds or Shop Swindles Act?
Everyone talks of the sins of the swarthy fruit mer-
chant who quotes a price for a sample and invari- •
ably fills up the bag—like a conjurer—with inferior
goods, but nobody arranges for his sin to find him
out in a police court. Yet, of all dishonest traders,
he is the most deserving of prosecution, because he
runs least risk from honest competition. The ex-
tremely diluted milkman, for instance, can be easily
avoided, but, in shifting his patronage from one
Dago fruit shop to another, the purchaser, as a rule,
merely passes from the pot to the kettle, or vice versa.
The black bamboozlers are the immense majority.
Moreover, their frauds are not limited to the surrep-
titious introduction of bad fruit into good company.
They apply to the quantity as well as'to the quality
of the fruits they hastily drop into bags. A Dago’s
dozen is likely to be two less than a baker’s dozen,’
and the 12 oranges you paid for turn out to be a
family of 11, seven adults and four wizened children.
There can be no legal dealing with this sort of
swindle except by organised action. A large com-
mittee of amateur detectives, visiting individually a
number of shops on a pre-arranged plan, could make
out a case against each delinquent, and put the fear
of the law into the ungodly trade. As things are
we can only repeat the words of the Irishman who
appeared, together with an Italian fruit seller and
an apologetic nigger, at the court of Virginian Judge
Kelly: “Thim Dagoes, yer Honor, will sell you
onything.”
“Ricardo”: Artificial or synthetic rubber is of
Australian interest, through money invested and the
Papuan outlook. Wild rubber cannot be got under
2s. 6d. a lb. Plantation rubber answers at Is. 6d
but the artificial men say they can do it for Is., or
less. Acetone is an ingredient, and also largely used
m making cordite. Acetone costs £9O a ton, but a
cheap process is alleged to be found for making it
A German professor Harries and an English pro-
fessor Perkin solved the rubber problem about
the same time, but Perkin has been ahead with the
patent. Acetone and alcohol, produced from fusel
oil, form isoprene, and, getting that cheaply, you
are on the road to rubber. For long the chemists
have turned rubber into isoprene, as with turning
diamonds into carbon. The problem was to make
carbon into diamond, and over this Wernher was
swindled out of a lot of money. Similar, but not so
•difficult, was turning isoprene into rubber. Tilden,
a chemist, found that a bottle of isoprene had
changed into rubber, and fancied hydrochloric acid
was the agent. This could not be proved. Harries
found he could do it with acetic acid, but the price
was prohibitive. Sodium proves the right thing
Starch is the beginning of the whole process, and the
necessary cheap fusel oil is obtained from it. Such
are the convolutions of chemists, worrying the ele-
ments. Now they have to show their rubber, and
even the natural article is extremely variable. If
successful, the case is parallel to aniline dve instead
of indigo.
A landlord’s paradise is the city of Adelaide these
days, when steamship freights are mostly humanity.
If you want a house you must buy one. Sleek and
courteous house agents, in answer to your query
“Any houses to let?” smile blandly, "throw their
heads sagely from side to side, and say, “Not such
a thing to be got, sir,” or “We could let hundreds il
we had them.” Eighty per cent, of the agents are
so busy selling houses that they keep a liveried boy
standing on the doormat shouting, “NO” at every-
body suspected of desiring to pay a pound a week
for the loan of a three-roomed shack. Ten per cent,
of the landlord’s representatives hire a constable
from 9 to 10 a.m. when they advertise a residence
to let, m order to prevent the front steps from being
trampled to death. The remaining 10 per cent, show
you photographs of “two rooms, one a basement
with a creek running through the property, at 225!
6d., or “three rooms and a kitchen, fourpenny tram
section, at 255. a week.” If you are lucky you can
get a double room at a city coffee palace or hotel
for 6s. per night at 80s. per week. Unfurnished room-
lettmg and the hiring out of rooms furnished, with
use of flatiron or poker, are thriving industries mean-
whlle - But before you can get anything at all you
must show that you paid up the rent at your last
place, are really married to the lady who accom-
panies you, have given your first wife (if any)
decent and proper burial, are solvent, have finished
your term (if any) in gaol, have got your discharge
from your creditors and the lunatic asylum, are not
out on bail; that you were never known as an
atheist, dynamiter or scoffer at the Throne and Per-
son, and that you have been duly vaccinated—like-
wise your wife, who exhibits her arm to the agent
as evidence. Then you pay a month in advance and
are enrolled among the Blest.
* * * *
“Dol”: Westralian timber combines continue to
deforest the State in wholesale fashion, and, excepting
that school children plant a few trees on Arbor Dav
nothing is done to make good the loss. Most of the
timber concessions contain a clause to the effect that
the barkers must plant new whiskers somewhere on
the face of the State; but this portion of the docu-
ment has ■ been quite forgotten, and even Premier
Scaddan does not seem in a hurry- to remember it


WARNING.
AEROGEN
SAFETY GAS
can only be Produced
by Aerogen Machines.
AEROGEN GAS GENERATOR.
WARNING.
It has become necessary
for us to Warn Buyers
that all Air Gas
Machines are not
Aerogen Machines.
Ideally Suited for Country Houses, Stores, Hotels & Billiard Saloons.
TWO OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
28 Hunter Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs, — November 28, 1911
I am writing to let you know how pleased I am with the Aerogen Gas Machine which
you installed at my home, “Clydesdale,” about three months ago. Everything has been
most satisfactory, the machine proving very simple to work, and also very economical.
The light is excellent, both for ordinary use in the house, and for the billiard table. I
will be only too glad to personally recommend it to anyone.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) GEORGE G. KISS.
“Borriyalloak,” Skipton,
Dear Sirs, — July 26, 1910.
I am pleased to inform you that the Aerogen Gas Machine I have had in use here for, as
you know, about nine months- —through a whole summer and the worst part of the winter —is
most efficient, and I find tlie machine very simple to work. The light is perfect, pure
white and steady. The mantles give no more trouble than ordinary gas mantles, and are
simple to replace.
Yours truly, (Sgd.) ERNEST G. AUSTIN.
AEROGEN SAFETY GAS can be used for HEATING and COOKING with best results. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
COST—ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE.
UNO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clack, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE:
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
(BEHIND EQUITABLE BUILDING).
MELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY.. LTD.. 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
PERTH : ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. Reid & Co. Ltd.
TOWNSVILLE : Alfred Shaw Ltd.
NEW CALEDONIA: A. Barrau.
BRITISH NEW GUINEA : Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.
PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns. Philp & Co. Ltd.
'Ringing for More!'
|l l ~ a ' i
folk
V
s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success, a
When Weaning Baby
The. Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenhurys’ Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
Allenbunjs Foods
HBF* PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE "90
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
THE LONE HANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAG AZIN K.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
ĥ
ħ
MM
Bucka
Magdeburg
m
350
M
SB
.-r, : -
iiiiiiiiiini
;1.
CLASS T.H.C. ENGINE.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES-
HAES & EGGERS LTD
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Local Agents —
ADELAIDE: Newton McLaren Ltd., Leigh Street.
MELBOURNE : Diamond Lubricating and Trading Co. Ltd., 396-398 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: Dean & Collie, 335 Queen Street.
THe Most Economical Plant in tlie World is the
The Coal Consumption on Standard Engine
is 0*789 lb. per B.H.P. per hour.
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile.
WOLF’S Standard Locomobiles
are a self-contained complete steam power plant,
including Boiler, fitted with patent, withdrawable Furnace and Tubes, Superheaters,
Engine, Jet or Surface Condenser, Feedwater Heater, Air and Feed Pumps,
all in one unit,
giving the highest economy in fuel and steam.
They occupy a minimum of floor space, requiring only the lightest foundations, and
are easily attended even by unskilled labor.
In regard to
durability, reliability, steady running, adaptability,
WOLF Superheated Steam Locomobiles at least equal the best steam engine or
turbine plants of several 1000H.P. Their superiority in economy is attained by
their faultless construction and in obviating the many losses, including radiation,
etc., which are unavoidable ip steam plants having separate boiler and engine.
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, WOLF Locomobiles
possess the following advantages:
Cheaper cost of fuel.—Great reserve of power, allowing overloads up to 50
per cent. —StedelinesS in running under extreme and sudden variation ot
load.—USE ANY KIND OF FUEL, besides coal (woodwaste logs, peat, tan
bark, sugar cane [bagasse], naphtha, petroleum, inferior coal, lignite,, etc.).
Utilisation of stearin ..for heating or manufacturing purposes.—-Easy attend-
ance even by unskilled hands.—-Absolute Reliability and Greater Durability,
Greater Simplicity and Continuously Maintained Economy also at Lower
Loads.
In addition to the many Plants already installed throughout
Australia, we are at present installing the following—
W. Angless, Melbourne
W. Angless, Melbourne
Clyde Brick Works, Clyde
Murrumbidgee Co-operative Flour Milling Co., Y/a&ga
Fuerth 8 Nall, Sydney
N.S.W. Railways, for Pumping Plant
N.S.W. Railways (repeat order)
Public Works Department, for Lithgow Sewerage Works
one 600 B.H.P.
two 300 „
one 260 „
one 180 „
one 105 „
one 70 „
one 180 „
two 18 „
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: CHILDRENS FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GOOD, STRONG. CLOSE SHOOTERS.
ST E V
SINGLE BARREL
Guaranteed for Quality.
E N S
SHOT GUNS.
h
Choke bored for nitro powder.
Case-hardened frame. For any standard make of
ammunition. Made in 12, 16 and 20 gauges in standard lengths and weights.
Ask your dealer. Insist on STEVENS. Every gun tested.
Write for Catalogue and detailed information to
ARTHUR H. HILL
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Bex 86 C.P.0., ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA. [1
Have you a Gun you can depend upon?
If not
get a
PIEPER BAYARD.
ALL PARTS
WARRANTED.
ĥ
ħ
h
Can be had of all Store-
keepers, Gunsmiths and
Merchants.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Leaflets, post free.
£&oiy&JV
o G’trytdrtyjld
fediuburoA.
fyc&a/ J2uA&-
EASILY PROVED .
To try
u
NS
King George IV
Whisßy
once is all that is needed to ensure its con-
tinuance —that is a certainty. Connoisseurs
proclaim it “pure, exhilarating and beneficial.”
It is the Whisky of Whiskies.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
THE J)
ISTILLERS
Largest Scotch WHisky
Distillers in the World.
OMPANY,
Capital employed,
over £2, 000,000.
Ltd.
ĥ
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
Sydney—Angel Place; Melbourne— 52, William Street.
Is the Sentinel
of Your Home.
“ HYCOL ” guards it from disease.
Be sure therefore to keep it ‘on duty ’ always.
18 TIMES STRONGER THAN CARBOLIC
and it is non-poisonous.
N.S.W. Agents:
POTTS & CO.,
163 George St.,
Sydney.
THE M9ST POWERFUL
DISINFECTANT*
“(SOLCRYST” is GSefOl
i*
Mil
V
'Mr,
J ...
<o
ii
K
Fop Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Diver Troubles, Coustipation, All Blood Disorders,
Excesses in Diet, GOLCRYST is a most useful medicine.
Consisting 1 of EPSOM SALTS, SENNA, SARSAPARILLA, DANDELION,
LIQUORICE and GINGER, GOLCRYST is the finest Blood Purifier known. Sold
everywhere in packets, 3d., 6d. and 1/-. If unable to obtain locally, write to Rocke,
Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne, for free sample. [1
WHOLESALE AGENTS W.A., Neale, Constable and Co., Perth; S.A., “Birks-Chemists,” Ade-
laide; Q., Taylor and Colledge, Brisbane; N.S.W., Elliott Bros., Sydney; Australian Drug Co., Sydney.
had normry
bur cocoanute
cysfens and
rcrhie for a
1 month
HIMRODS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefi(she
received from HIMROD'S ASTHMA
POWDER, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever,
Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by a{l Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ASTHMA POWDER
GOLDEN KEY” CIGARS
The Cigar with the Exquisite Charm.
g
*B= 57
Delightful Aroma.
PRESENTATION Cabinets
containing 50 Cigars
22/6 (Post Free).
A sample lot of J
Cigars i 2/G
Post
Free.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
XALODERHA
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 9 Grand Prize St Louis 1904
PREPARATIONS
I WOLFF & SOHN, Karlsruhe and London
Knlodermti Jelly
prepared with glycerine <£ honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable $ efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Kaloderma Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening 4 improving the skin.
Kalodermo Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Ucy' JST
Knlodermn Slitroina Song
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the market.
* n refined luxury at a popular price, usr usr ’ JcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.


Half Sick
Half Well
' Many persons have their good day
f and their bad day. Others are about
half sick ail the time. They have
headache, backache, and are restless
and nervous. Food does not taste
good, and the digestion is poor; the
skin is dry and disfigured with pim-
ples; sleep brings no rest and work is
a burden.
What causes this?
Impure blood.
And the remedy?
60 YEAH3
SOLD FOB
It removes impurities from the 1
blood and makes it rich and red. Then
nature takes right hold and completes
the cure. Ask your doctor all about
this.
No medicine can do its best work when
the bowels are constipated. Keep your liver
active with Ayer’s Pills. One pill, at bed-
time, is sufficient to produce a natural move-
ment the next morning. Ayer’s Pills are
sugar-coated. All vegetable.
Prepared by DR J. O. AYER & CO.. I
lioweii. Mass., U. S. A. (
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
m
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FUNDERS LANE
s MELBOURNE :
rjIHE Best Stories written by Australian
JL Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
—essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges may
not always suffice to
ensure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction .with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two ‘Eley Loaded' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme'
A bright orangeginch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
(42-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy ‘Eloid*
A ligh t maroon Car tridge.
Loaded withEley(33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from, all Gunmakers
and A inmunition Dealers,
Eley Bros., Ld., London
Enjf.
'jft/lrfk >«
■/
fpf' 4 -
RUNKENNESS Cured.
can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN
ofVifwP has 7 n f ° ° d "[ or ta ? te - and can b e taken by the most delicate person
fnv anHnatw1 11 t , ota i ls ; erad ' cates al } craving for stimulants, creating a last-
... ... . antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few davs
™ ment - • • Send 2d - Stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full pankulars
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
OBTAIN A PERFECT FIGURE!
YOU CAN WEICH WHAT YOU SHOULD.
mwsm.
'22
m
m
m
V/////////S.
*SS///S,
TOO THIN
WOMEN.
If you are
fl a t-chested,
thin, run
down and scraggly—even if you
never had a nicely-rounded
bosom, Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-food
will build you up and develop
your figure. Does your mirror
mock you? Flesh-food will re-
move the faults in your figure
by rounding out and developing
the deficient places. Put up in
Tablet form, it is easy to use and
pleasant to take, and, if desired,
may be taken secretly. Taken un-
der our directions, it will work
wonders for your appearance.
In many cases bust measure-
ments have been increased by over
ten inches, and the weight over five
pounds weekly. Other cases have
shown an increase in weight of
even a pound a day. The average
bust increase desired is about six inches, and is
readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to
the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable
figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to
attenuated women. Results Guaranteed. . ,
TOO FAT
PEOPLE.
Excess fat in-
jures your
health, im-
pedes your movements, and
makes you the butt of your
unfeeling normal-weight friends.
People who have been fat, and
are now reduced to normal,
think other fat people ridicu-
lous.
Not alone does excess fat in-
jure your health and endanger
vour existence, it absolutely de-
stroys your figure and makes
you a . ludicrous sight. Why
do you stay fat? “EATCURE”
positively removes excess fat,
and will restore your spoiled
figure to decent and pleasing
proportions, and is always a
sure and lasting cure for
obesity and corpulency. A few
doses improves your breathing
wonderfully, and the course of
treatment will cure you.
It is the only successful, and,, at the same
time, harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been
discovered. Its efficacy has been undeniably de-
monstrated _in thousands of successfully treated
cases. It is totally and absolutely non-poison-
ous, and can in no wise work any injury to the
general health; though it often reduces excess
weight by as much as a pound a day.
WE SUPPLY FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “FLESH-FOOD” or ATCURE.”
Send' ?, tam P’, anci saJr which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
BUST to thin people, “OBESITY” to fat ones. Be sure to say which sample you want,
ko matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. Write or call to-day.
THE WATWORTH FALL/ERE ASSISIIIO3 Ash St., Sydney, (aisosi
ħ
6*
Stockings & Socks.
The only all-wool hose with the soft-
ness of silk. And unshrinkable.
There are none like them for warmth, comfort, and wear.
The range of is so large that every individual taste is catered
for. Men’s, women’s and children's: in black, tan and fancy art designs
and colours: in plain, ribbed, and lace: fully fashioned and seamless.
<222*.
for every foot. And every foot should be clothed in
It promotes health and does not irritate the skin.
See to it.
Have and nothing but
Stockings. Socks, and Underwear, for Men, Ladies,
and Children. In-all prices. Of Men’s
Diapers and Stores. If your dealer does not stock
he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write fot; 'Jason" booklet and name of nearest Agent to—
JASON HOSIERY CO.. LEICESTER, ENGLAND. <i>
h
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a- CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for 30
years, but since talcinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [ 3 .
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
ĥ
Ilatest
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. Write
at once, using sufficient postage.
for Free Art Catalogue and our
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Deot. 280, LIVERPOOL*
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
**■ VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
The Standard Remedy wtncn has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in tue since 1606.
ibsai
’ CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask yourchemist lor its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210. Lam beth Koau. London, Entr.
56 tons 7cwt.
The. weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.'
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
thf reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
CESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Rowland’s
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies. Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect of
a beautiful face. Gu.d hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES shou'd always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND'S.
67, Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
ħ
“JjINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Rhyme of Old Bones and Fat.
The Legislative Council advanced to the commit-
tee stage the Marine Stores and old Metals Act
Amendment Bill. —Melbourne Herald.
I seldom snigger at those who sit in the seats
of the mighty Stout;
For that, if I got my just deserts, I’d be
struck dead, no doubt.
I never do laugh right out at them whose
motto is still: “More Lunch !”
But —one small grin and a spasm of strangled
mirth, for the brainy bunch
Who gabble, for our Australian good, in
moss-grown monotones,
Of tallow and rags and holey pots, old
bottles and mouldy bones.
When the old-boots expert rises up, and,
yammering, holds the floor,
Should we admire, or curse a bit, or just let
go and roar?
When a weird old thing with weepers speaks
for an hour on kitchen-fat,
Say, should we smother our joy, or might we
giggle at things like that?
What do we rude Australians feel when a
fat white whisker owns
To a dreadful knowledge of dead marines,
rag-rubbish and ancient bones?
Honor where honor is due, of course', and
honor we owe to those
Who legislate for the regions where wild
backyard-refuse grows.
Manifold in the Council are their noble and
splendid works
Who take, per week, as their humble pay, a
trifle of paltry perks;
And there’s surely hope for Australia yet,
while the Chamber of Great Unknowns
Is busy with matters of dirty fat, old bottles
and mouldy bones!
Yet, curses, or mirth, or cheers, it’s all the
same to the House of Meat,
So long as there isn’t too much to do, and
there’s plenty for them to eat.
Serving their country with faithfulness and
an eye on their sacred rents,
Look at ’em, lounging on crimson plush, a
Council of fleshful gents,
A fatted and somewhat dreary crew of dul-
lards and bores and drones,
With a cheerless clatter of beerless bottles
and rags and mouldy bones!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
The Night Riders.
• Across the shade, adown the night
Our bridles jangled free,
Hope on my left, and on my right
The wraith of memory;
We saw amid the trees the bright,
Pale moonlight on the sea.
The tavern doors of Mirth were wide,
We drained a merry glass,
Where cheek to cheek, all wrinkle-eyed,
Sat Laughter and his lass,
The while we heard the creeping tide,
And marked the short hour pass.
We rode along the level way,
And felt the air grow chill ;
Sometimes amid the tree-stems grey
We heard a low note thrill,
A sob of music meet to slay
The hot pulse of the will.
We found Joy’s house with portals fair
All light and glad With song,
A winey fragrance filled the air
That beat about us strong.
We went with blossoms in our hair
Amid a merry throng.
Again we mounted at the door
And rode adown the night,
A fuller music went before.
The faint sea shone more bright
Until we found beside the shore
A palace of delight.
Large, lustrous star-lamps burned above,
The windows all were wide,
About the eaves the sleepless dove
Cooed to the glimmering tide;
It was the golden home of Love —
Love blushing as a bride.
And surely there we long had stayed,
Such greeting did we find,
But through the night a music strayed
Upon a wandering wind
That made our listening souls afraid
Of some dark thing and blind.
Across the shade, adown the night
My bridle jangled free,
But Hope with Love had taken flight,
And bitter Memory
Rode with me in the pallid light
Beside the cold, grey sea.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
A Morning Whoop.
It’s me for the stretching shadows and the
hrst cool breath of the morning,
The echoing calls of the waking birds and
the rose-clouds far at sea;
The liquid call of the magpie gives the lie-a-
bed ample warning;
Let him slumber on, but it’s up and out to
the dew-wet cliffs for me!
The thin, blue spirals of camp smoke climb
the scent is finer than roses!
Dew diamonds sparkle on blade and bough
though their hour is nearly done •
A shaft of light on the slumb’ring sea a
hovering sail discloses;
The hush of the morning is ended now
cicades salute the sun.
Straight down the path to the firm, wet
sands, new-modelled by sea caresses;
A sea-hollowed cave for a dressing-room, with
hangings of wet, brown weed, '
ihe welcoming sea, the day to waste and n
pair of bathing dresses. ’ a d a
(Wlt wv. a J ery nice gir1 ’ of c °urse, in one 1
What more can an idler need ? ’
N.S.W.
LOAFER.


h
; ;
218-222
KING ST. - NEWTOWN
OF NEWTOWN
Sydney.
CASH STORES LTD.
Fbur Specials from our Blanket Section.
S'P-ECIAL NOj 1. —Australian Super White Blanket, regular guinea quality, beautifully
wool uianKet, extra large size; the best grey Blanket 1
7sR> ‘ "I-Til ‘ ’ ‘Tiiv,
SPECIAL' No. 2.—Australia
SPECIAL No; 3.—Heavy'English Whitney ’ Blanket, an exceptional good quality, weighing 7ilb.,
for tlie double-bed size, only ••••• "" "' V TV
qpFrf'ATi No 4.—An extra heavy part wool, part cotton, Brown-grey English-jnade Blanket, douoie-
betf size,, weighing 71b„ for 10 / b
Two Splendid Offerings from our Shoe Department.
“MV LADY’ 1 * SHOE, —-For dress and walking wear, is made of fine patent colt-skin, with tops of
dull velvet, aal'f inlaid. This Shoe has a flexible, sewed extending sole and a comfortable
Cuban Ilt'eL The giant, fast-colored eyelets, and the wide silk laces add much to the general
attractiveness. This Shoe is modelled on a new toe-shape, this season’s style. A grand titter ,
sizes 2to 7. Price -.. - 14 / a
ORES
£
he
T
<0
.
m
<
o
u
H UB
£
'V
>vtQ,
BLACK STORM KING DERBY BOOTS. Made of the finest
selected Box Calf, and will stand the strongest and roughest
of wear, and yet the appearance is fit for a walking- or
dress-wear Boot; with occasional applications of Lucca or
Neatsfoot Oil they will remain soft and will wear indefini-
tely. Sizes, 5 to 10. Price 12/6
Our Motto —
WHAT OTHERS ADVERTISE,
WE SELL FOR LESS.
Please Write for
“ Our Household
Friend.”
IT IS FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
ĥ
To Pipe Smokers
ORDER BY MAIL.
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
If not obtainable in tins from your
own tobacconist, order direct.
APPLY FOR CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
4o z. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
Postage 4d. extra. Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
A A MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
I 111
--WFSFfI
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THE NEW TYPE
(LARGE and SMALL)
Boomerang Grand
Gr
(^AND
hand FILED
IMTERCHANCEABLp
Reeds
parts
vXV ALBERT’S SYSTEM
. ... , olHv durability; its sound is pure, sweet and musical.
Is the Mouth Organ of quality, tonality a«l g ah £ ad of all those Mouth Organs styled under
The BOOMERANG * s n Lsno Dietentions; it is simply the best of the best; because,
sumptuous names. The GRAND has no P t more cardinal ones, viz.: The GRAND wastes
apart from its numerous qualities, it p { th Modern Mouth Organs. Again, the
£ The Small GRAND BOOMERANG, with 24 Reeds, 3/6
To be had, post free, from any respectable dealer (who does not attempt to talk you over
into a substitute), or
direct from the makers.
J. ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
RAM
RIFE
PUMPS
WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
row in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate any capacity desired for
Country Hornes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, Irrigation,Town Plants, Railroad tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile-Write for Free Plans and Book.
GET OUE FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
THE ACCORDEON»fOr Country Residents.
i i>rij «a
any Accordeon comes
as the Celebrated
STAR Txombonc Accordeon.
Jt lias a powerful tone,handsome ebonised case, extra
r <r e ! bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
•oadl steel bronze reeds. . Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Pride £l.
PoScagfe'to any Address
in- Australia, 2/6 extra.
hara quality, with 3 sets of Keeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold BegJpVShwitHhornet's. ,Kt|ce £1 7s. oa.;
postage ttfayiv address in'Australia, 2/emtra.
)ther AccordStms from 7/6 to lQJJijci
HEINDORFF BBiiOS.,
Importers of Pianos and dtt hintjsi <$ r?df/§4)i
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
2>® STREET BRISBANE
V
T
%
p
V
• nr //
W
P*
V'/f
Perdriau
Motor
are
unexcelled by any
others on the market.
PERDRIAU
Motor Tyres
ARE * *
“ Made Right to Run Right.”
PERD RIAU
Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“THE BEST HOUSE FOR ALL RUBBER GOODS,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; 105 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
f'A.
»a'Aa r f **'•/*■
IAA a A a A A A A **
AA a A A A A A A * *'
A A A A <[> A A ///j
a/V Avs
MAy>/> t f f- r. h t!
r/Av;///!
»a(Taa>
(. >y -■- #
Mw&
>r -
Yi
\
V
's«®=
/V»en.
JO'T**'*
5>S
All over Australia thousands of up-to-date people
are now making their own soda-water at home in a
SPARKLET
SYPHON.
•<The Soda Fountain on a Tea-Tray.
If you are tired of paying out good money for
“made” soda-water, with its lumber of empty
and broken bottles, why not try the
“SPARKLET ” way?
With a “SPARKLET” Syphon you can make
absolutely pure aerated water instantly at a cost of
one penny a pint. It is less trouble than making a
pot of tea—a child can do it.
Ask your Storekeeper. Here are the Prices:
C=SYPHON, 0/0 each. C=BULBS 2/3 doz.
B=SYPHON, 4/- ~ B=BULBS 1/0 »
READ & CAMPBELL, LTD., Importers,
40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. ”3.—No. 1696.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 15. 1912.
Prick (Jo.
THE PLACE WHERE THERE ARE VOTES TO COLLECT.
The transcontinental railway, linking Westralia with the East, will be commenced to-day. A party of surveyors will move ahead of the railway. Mr. H. Dean, the
Commonwealth Engineer. will have charge of the work, under the Ministerial contral of King O'Malley.-News item.
THE KINK: "Make straight for the box, brother."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for, the White Man.’
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman. for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South W ales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(j[n Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. -• •• H 6 0
Half-yearly . . - • • • 010 6
Quarterly . . • • • • 0 i 0
sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six' Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to Ihe
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige tlie
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to Tthe Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper sufici'Scription for ‘‘Copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clivpings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The. conditions tinder ‘which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. West Australia, Queensland.
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at 1/16 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and. Son, Capetown: The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, .Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal. '
Egypt. —The Colonial Bool: and Neivs Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Ilong
Kong.
Ceylon. —TF. G. Punchiappnhamy,
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
fig in. x Uin., will be forwarded on: application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and; Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id.—otherwise, Boz., Id., and Sioz, to
10oz., Ud.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.j elsewhere, 1,0z.f Id.,
and Id.' each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 1912.
A MOVEMENT THAT SHOULD BE
BOUNDED ON WITH BOTH FEET.
One of the most nationally-useful and alto-
gether admirable features of the Navigation
Bill, now before the Australian Parliament,
is the attempt it makes, by means of the
Coasting Trade clauses, to give a fair mea-
sure of protection to the local mercantile
marine. Under these clauses any non-Aus-
tralian vessel which desires to participate
in the local coastal trade must, like any
mere Australian craft, pay its crew white
men’s wages, house and feed them like white
folks, and in general observe Australian
conditions while in Australian waters.
Also, such a vessel must not be in receipt
of a subsidy from any foreign Government
other than for the carriage of mails. There
are various other provisos of a similar
nature, and coming from the Parliament of
a country which has declared repeatedly
for Protection, they are sufficiently
able and consistent. Yet, a howl of protest
has been directed against them, and already
there is a large, healthy movement afoot to
engineer their nullification. It is argued
that certain foreign steamship cos. should
he exempted from the Coasting Trade
•clauses. In other words, it is suggested that
while the Australian steamship owner
should be forced to go on employing white
men as heretofore —with all the attendant
additional expense that the practice implies
—the foreign steamship cos. should be re-
lieved of the necessity of doing anything of
the sort.
* * * *
The fount or origin of this latest shriek
for preference to the foreigner would seem
to be Papua, and such Far Northern ports
as Thursday Island, etc., where the agents
of the overseas steamship lines are
numerous and energetic. The residents of
these wild regions have somehow become
convinced that the rigid enforcement of the
Coasting Trade provisions in the new Bill
will mean to them devastation and misery
and a general filing of schedules. It has
been represented by persons with an eye to
business—and the Papuans and so forth
have seemingly accepted the absurd tale or
bluff —that if the Bill goes through in its
present form, most of the lines which now
serve them will go out of the business, so
far as they are concerned, and they will be
within measurable distance of starvation.
Thus, one argument which has been freely
used by wlrat may be termed the pro-exemp-
tionists is that if the Dutch and German
ships are in any way discouraged, Papua
will get no more rice from Asia. When the
contention is scrutinised it turns out to be
utterly idiotic. The Nord-Deutscher Lloyd
Co., which calls at Samarai with rice every
two months on its way from Hong Kong, did
so years and years before it thought of par-
ticipating in the ordinary freight traffic be-
tween Papua and Australia. Its vessels
made the trip, of yore, purely to land the
big rice shipments which Papuan merchants
order from Asia, and these craft will cer-
tainly continue to do so regardless of Aus-
tralian Coastal Trade legislation, for the
simple reason that the practice will still pay
them. Similarly, the reason why the vessels
of a Dutch Steamship Co call at Port
Moresby on their way from Java to Aus-
tralia is that the co. wants to handle the
rice shipments there. It would go on pur-
suing that lucrative trade though 40 Navi-
gation Bills went through the Australian
Parliament. Furthermore, there is not the
least fragment of doubt that Bill or no Bill,
and exemptions or no exemptions, the vari-
ous Steamers Avhich arrive in Australia
from Europe via Torres Strait will con-
tinue to dispose of their cargoes as before;
that lines like the British India will still
call at Tliursdav Island and load pearl-shell
for Europe; and that other steamers will go
on taking away frozen meat, horses, and so
forth, as in the past. In fact, the whole
agitation against the Bill as it stands is, in
the above regard, flagrantly bogus.
* * * *
The possibility of grave hardships being
imposed on a number of inoffensive traders,
niggers and others having been eliminated,
the objections to the Bill begin to look not
so much thin as emaciated. On the other
hand, the points in its favor are numerous
and powerful. The exemptions proposal has
an important bearing on the White Austra-
lia principle. One necessary effect of allow-
ing foreign ships to participate in the Com-
monwealth coastal trade, without any obli-
gation to pay white men’s wages, etc., will
be to bring the colored seafarer to these
shores in large herds. That is undesirable
on the face of it. It cannot be too_ strenu-
ously insisted that the accepted White Aus-
tralia policy is All White —not white with
a mourning band around it, or anything of
that sort. Once any deviation from the All
White principle is admitted it is hard to see
where the unhealthy movement is going to
stop; and this is a matter in which there
should be no paltering of any sort whatever.
Incidentally, there is an Imperial side to
the question—an aspect which the. class of
citizen who barracks hardest for exemp-
tions, or any other old concessions in favor
of the foreigner, is particularly fond of
raising, and in the most blitliersome fashion
possible. This oaner doesn’t personally go
much on Imperialism, blitliersome or other-
wise, but it does believe in standing by the
harassed old land which has lent Australia
so much money, to the extent, at least, of
not deliberately and unnecessarily aiding its
dearest foes. Germany’s mercantile marine
is carefully fostered by the Kaiser’s Gov-
ernment, as a sort of combined cradle and
home for the nation’s sea-fighters. Every
concession granted to the Fatherland’s mer-
cantile marine is a boost forward to the
rapidly-growing fleet which—if the Dread-
nought variety of patriot is to be believed —-
aspires one day to take down J. Bull’s
number.
* * * *
But, by throwing open the whole
coastal trade of Australia to the foreigner,
the Commonwealth will do worse than but-
tress a potential foe of the British person
in an important direction; it will automa-
tically depreciate the efficiency of the just-
formed Australian navy. A condition pre-
cedent to an Australian-manned navy is a
powerful Australian mercantile marine—•
and an all-white one at that. Australia will
never achieve that priceless asset, unless
and until it decides to protect Australian
shipping by every means within Its- power.
If the exemptions, which a certain section
is working like fury to have inserted in the
Navigation Bill, are allowed by Parliament
the Commonwealth may say good-bye, once
and for all, to any prospect of fostering a
mercantile marine that will be of any na-
tional value. Assuming that the small Dutch
boats which ply up North are relieved from
the necessity to comply with the coasting
trade provisos of the Bill, the Messageries,
the N.D.L. and the rest of the foreign lines
will have a, logical, ethical, and every other
sort of right to the same privilege. As they
are already aided by the huge mail
subsidies (the Nord-Deutscher Lloyd
draws in the neighborhood of £240,000 per
annum from the German Government in this;
way), and as their freight and passenger
profits between Australia and their country
of origin are alone sufficient to return them
stout dividends, they will obviously be able
to cut rates as regards the Australian coastal
business. The circumstance will no doubt
appeal to that half-witted type of economist,
the immemorial Freetrader, inasmuch as it
will mean cheapness of a sort for a time.
The consistent Protectionist will take up
the attitude that a more or less paltry sav-
ing which involves the undoing of the only
mercantile marine Australia possesses and
the resultant weakening of the most impor-
tant arm of its defence service, is not worth
while.
THE GATHERING OF THE FREE-
TRADE CRANKS.
Maoriland lias appointed a Commission to
consider the alleged Great Cost of Living,
and consequently the crank —especially he
of the older and more obliterated variety—
is having a great time. In every community
there is a handful of ancient has-beens —
survivors of cults that are almost wholly
dead and gone —remnants, like the Hairy
Ainu or the Jacobite or the barramundi.
They are a feverish and disappointed folk
who carry vast masses of documents about
with them, and try to show them to every
new acquaintance, and to explain exactly
how this or that particular nostrum will
cure all public evils, and put everything
right, and make wages so' high that it will
take a man a week to see to the top of one
day’s pay, while [trices will be so low that
one will have to dig to get at them. They
suggest the broken-down Chancery litigant,
or the man who has captured the Beast of
Revelation and can get no one to come and
look at it. The letters of these familiar
bores are thrown down by many weary edi-
tors, and, being thus turned off at the
meter, they are always bursting for an
audience. When a chance like the appoint-
ment of the Maoriland Commission _ to con-
sider the alleged Great Cost of Living pre-
sented itself, the curious mental remnants
simply rushed it. They girded up their
skirts, and fled to the scene with their long
hair flying behind them. And when they
arrived they anxiously produced, as new
ideas, moth-eaten tales and jests that were
current in the days of our grandfathers. Of
course the Freetrader was there with his
familiar calculation, of which the following
is a sample :
BOOT AND SHOE FACTORIES.
Hands. Wages. Paid. Product.
Males .. .. 1,359 £154,044 £619,873
Females . . . . 913 v 43,549
2272 £ 197,593 £619,873
Duty (221 per cent. British, 33| per cent.
foreign) . . . . . ■ ■ • £71,987
Add 22J per cent, of £619,§73 (increased
cost of Maoriland Goods) . . . . 139,455
£211,442
Add 50 per cent, profits . . .. . . 105,721
£317,163
Deduct wages . . . . . . • • 197,593
Cost of taxes in excess of wages .. 119,570
And so on, with a lot of other industries.
And then, having got this evidence into
print, another joyful Freetrader, or possibly
the same one, felt that the matter was now
settled for ever and a day, and started a
letter to The Bulletin as follows: —
A choice sample of the “Protection ” for which
The Bulletin is always yelping, was given by a
witness during the sitting of the Cost of Living Com-
mission in Maoriland. He SHOWED, by an elaborate
set of figures, that the taxes on boots and shoes cost
the people of Gord’s Own £119,000 a year more than
all the wages paid in the boot and shoe factories
in the country ; that the flour tax costs the pig-
islanders £112,000 a year in excess of wages; and
the clothing and apparel tax £335,000 in excess of
all the wages paid in all the factories. If, therefore,
these ‘‘protective” taxes on boots and shoes, flour
and clothing were abolished, and all the wage-earners
in these industries pensioned off, Johnny Fuller's
earth would save upwards of £560,000 a year, etc.
And he finished up by stating that the proof
adduced was a ‘‘statistical staggerer.” It
seems, a pity it wasn’t a younger staggerer
and one that could stand more inspection.
This piece of alleged logic, which used to
have quite a good time in earlier days, is
based on a number of assumptions. It first
assumes that the locally-made goods, which
don’t pay any duty at all, really pay
£139,455, and that amount is added to the
bill. This is done by the simple process of
deciding that, though foreign competition
may keep down prices, local competition—
even the competition of 74 boot and
shoe factories —can do nothing in j that
way. The importer, it would seem,
never combines to needlessly push up
prices, while the manufacturer always does.
This shows a touching, faith in the importer.
Next there is the great glad assumption
that the manufacturer not only adds on the
duty he doesn’t pay, but that he charges 50
per cent, profit thereon, that being, presum-
ably, his regular rate of profit. If so, he is
on a marvellously good wicket, for in Pro-
tected N.S.W. where the statistics for 1911
are just to hand, it appears that the manu-
facturer only secures £l7 12s. sd. per cent,
of the whole value of his output, and out of
that he has to pay for rent, bad debts, de-
preciation, insurance, interest, discounts,
taxes, new machinery, cost of scrapping old
machinery, cost of new buildings, his own
wages, and any other sundries. In fact, his
little share —-which is a diminishing share
while the worker’s share is increasing—has
to cover everything, except cost of raw
material, fuel and the wages of the staff.
The Maoriland statistics to hand are only
up to 1905, but they set forth that the aggre-
gate Maoriland boot manufacturer used
£209,664 worth of material, and turned it
into boots with a saleable value of £501.005
—balance to the good, £231,401. Out of that
he handed out in the year quoted, £171,495
as wages, leaving him £59,906 with which
to cover all the items—rent, bad debts, in-
terest, depreciation, taxes, insurance, re-
placement of machinery, etc.- —already enu-
merated. How he drags all his gigaptic
alleged receipts out of that the Lord only
knows. He is said to first tear from the
people by nefarious means £139,455 for
duties that he doesn’t pay. Then he is
alleged to add 50 per cent, on to that, making
another £69,727 10s. vilely dragged from
the community, and this creates a -tnttil steal
of £209,182 10s. How all this, and the
legitimate profit as well, comes to -be con-
cealed inside the visible £59,906 —a very
hard-worked £59,906 which has such m lot
of things to do with itself—like a very large
whale inside a verv small Jonah, it is hard
to say. Even any recent possible growth of
the boot trade can’t- account for it. Inci-
dentally, too, the Freetrade crank assumes
that the £71,987 actually paid to the Treas-
ury as boot duty is dead loss —that it is
thrown overboard, in fact, and never reaches
the Treasury, and if the duty were abol-
ished, all this money would be saved to the
consumer, and it wouldn’t be necessary to
pay £71,987 in some other form to make
good the loss. So he puts it in also as one
of the savings which would arise if his craze
were adopted.
The statistical humorist who deals in
this kind of logic must come at last, if he
follows his own argument long enough, to
his logical conclusion. Let it be assumed
that a country has a Protective duty on
everything—it is no good stopping short at
boots, flour and clothing, as The Bulle-
tin’s correspondent does. Then that coun-
try could make great wealth if it stopped
making everything, and imported everything,
and pensioned everybody out of nothing. If
£560,000 a year is to be made, as alleged,
by the total abandonment of work in the
boot, flour and clothing businesses, then the
abandonment of every business would pro-
bably bring in £56,000,000 a year—all
gained out of space by complete loafing.
(Meanwhile, the Dominion is working hard
and losing this £56,000,000, or whatever it
is per annum, and Protection must have
made it very rich else it would never stand
the shock.) Whether this rule applies
equally to a country that has always been
Freetrade, or whether it is the especial
blessing of the place that lias been Protec-
tionist and then become Freetrade, the
Maoriland deponent sayeth not. On this
point he fails to depone worth ninepence,
which is a pity, for he might have gone on
to show why it is that everybody in Eng-
land is so much better off than in Maori-
land, with better wages, and shorter hours,
and a nice cottage, and two good suits of
clothes, and three meat meals per day. Even
apart from this blot on the theory, how-
ever, it is a very beautiful theory. Yet
with all its glory and radiance there seems
to be something wrong. There is a beetle
in the jam, so to speak, and a dead fly on
the gate of Paradise. Perhaps the rock on
which the Freetrader splits, with his mar-
vellous deductions about the cheapness of
foreign imported goods as against the dear-
ness of local production, and the advantage
of using other people’s goods instead of our
own, is the simple fact that it really pays a
man better to give himself £lOO than to give
somebody else £5O. The boots may be
dearer, but in the first case he is left with
the £lOO, and in the second case lie is left
without the £5O, and if he is left without
the £5O often enough a time comes when he
hasn’t anything—-hot even boots. In such
matters a man and a community are very
much alike. It is a fairly obvious rock,
too, but the convinced Freetrader hasn’t
seen it vet.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Maoriland Thinks of Putting in the
Plug.
Maoriland’s new “Reform” Treasurer met
Parliament the other day, and told a tale
which had' a note of anxiety in it. He is
afraid the revenue is going to drop a little,
and he is quite certain that the outgoings are
not. The mere fact that £3,275,791 was
added last year to the Public Debt, and con-
sequently to the amount on which interest
has to be paid, makes it fairly certain that
only hard economy can shorten the expendi-
ture, and the courage to try hard economy
has not yet developed in the Massey Min-
istry. So the wonderful surplus which de-
pended ■ on the big foreign loans is supposed
to have practically vanished at last, and all
that is expected is that the foreign loans
will keep things about square—on paper at
least —for a while yet. This is how the
new Treasurer estimates things for the past
two years to March 31, and for the year to
March 31, 1913 :
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
1911 .. £10,297,273 £9,343,106 £954,167
1912 . . 11,061,160 10,340,549 720,611
1913 . . 10,948,404 10,863,068 85,336
These figures suggest that the tonic is ceas-
ing to work, as all tonics do in time. Public
borrowing is like private drinking. When
the patient is young, and his system isn’t
saturated with alcohol or IO U, one drink
makes him feel good and joyful. Later on
in life, when he is sodden and beer-logged,
the lack of 10 drinks makes him feel effete
and miserable. But even 11 drinks don’t nil
him with the buoyancy that a single liquor
used to do. let it can’t / be denied that
Maoriland has taken its nobbier regularly and
valiantly. This is how the Treasurer, if h;s
figures have been correctly reported on this
side, estimates the size and regularity of the
public nip
Added to Maoriland Debt.
Borrowings not included.)
Average per
Addition. Year.
1893-1897.. £5,877,118 £1,175,423
1898-1902.. 8,305,307 1,661,061
1903-1907 . . 9,418,911 1,883,782
1908-1912.. 20,916,768 4,183,353
These are the latest figures of the
net debt, after deducting the wonder-
ful bogus sinking fund which is al-
ways sinking, and doesn’t fund worth
twopence. It is a curious sort of fraud, for,
instead of accumulating at. compound inter-
est, it is actually some £BOO,OOO less than it
was five years ago. The total net liability
is now £82,193,310 (it was £37,675,206 in
1892), which- means that it has
jumped from £59 2s. per head to
£BO 3s. 9d. per head. During the
last five years the leap has been from £67 Is.
to £80,35. 9d., so no one can say that Maori-
land hasn’t done the thing in style. Also,
local bodies have raised another £5,000,000
during the last five years, so they have also
been out on an earnest financial blither.
Between State and municipal debts, Maori-
land is up the spout to the extent of about
£96 10s. per head, which is a brilliant record,
and, one that should be framed and hung up
in every lunatic asylum. The above _ table
shows how, each term, the patient, in an
effort to recover his lost youth, took a bigger
drink than he did the term before. He
didn’t get his youth back, but the list of
items on the slate became something terrible.
The new Government apparently suspects
that the game is about finished. The last
loan was obtained for such a short time, and
with such difficulty, and at such a price -
when interest, discount, underwriting _ ex-
penses and sundries were all taken into
account —that there is no hope of keeping up
the £4,000,000-a-year pace any longer. It
is proposed to reduce the next year’s borrow-
ings to £1,750,000, in order to go on with
works already in hand, and, presumably, that
amount will be scraped up somehow. There
are £23,000,000 of old falling due dur-
ing the next seven years, but the Treasurer
expects to fix them up one way or another.
He is fairly optimistic, but he can’t conceal
the fact that the time for putting in the plus
is at hand. And the plug is a cheerless thing


to put in after a long period of revelry. This
writer was in Maoriland when it was put in
after the last great revel, and he hopes never
to see the object again. It looks worse than
a hyena.
Contract v. Day Labor.
Certain politicians and others have arisen,
of late, to throw mud on the day-labor-upon-
public-works system, to which the present
Australian Government and the N.S.W. State
Government are equally committed. In fact,
quite a large number of persons has arisen.
It has been alleged that, in many cases, the
progress of public works is unduly slow, that
the business is badly done, that the cost is
excessive,, and that there is a grievous lack
of discipline, because the useless or disorderly
person who is sacked simply appeals to his
local member (should he happen to be a
Labor, member, and consequently a man whose
vote is of value to the Ministry), and gets
an order for his reinstatement. In short, it
is said , by people, some of whom have less
reputation for accuracy than others, that in
some cases public works are one-half schemes
to supply Government supporters with an
easy living. All these allegations have been
put forward with great violence. The bitter
denunciations heaped upon Minister Grif-
fith,, of N.S.W., by certain old supporters,
for his efforts to get £l’s worth of work for
79?' J?, ut Si le day-labor system, suggest:
(1) That Griffith, at all events, recognises
that the evils described might easily come to
pass under a sufficiently lax policy ; (2) that
he doesn’t intend that they shall come to pass ;
a -i- 11 that some people (the denouncers)
think these evils ought to come to pass, and
regard day labor as a thing that should be
synonymous with day-loafing. Also, the angry
shout of one Federal Senator, that it was “an
insult to the workers ” to even propose to
inquire as to whether the alleged evils
existed, seemed to suggest a mistaken idea in
certain quarters that no “worker” would
under any circumstances, do anything wrong
—in fact, that a manual laborer is the same
thing as an angel, and that day labor is,
like the Holy Roman Church in its
palmy days, a thing too sacred to be doubted,
and too holy to be even investigated. As a
matter of fact, the day-labor system has its
drawbacks, like other earthly institutions.
The contractor is certainly objectionable, and
a person to be avoided if possible. He is
a gambler in men and material, and a middle-
man pure and simple, like the importer. It
is to his interest to make the price as high
as he can possibly do without losing the
job, for all surplus is his profit. Sometimes
fie makes very little, and at other times his
profits are phenomenal. Like the bookmaker,
he has funds for purposes of bribery, and he
sometimes gets Government contracts at
absurdly high prices, or gets scamped work
passed as good, by very shady devices. No
one expects him to be other than a fraud and
a jerry-builder, except under close super-
vision. His one conspicuous recommenda-
tion is that he can’t be terrorised by fear of
losing the votes of his employees, as a Labor
Government may be—a Tory Government,
haying no pick-and-sliovel vote to lose, can,
if it pleases, be impervious to threats of that
sort. It is always possible that the vote on
one big public w r ork may turn an election;
and a feeble waster in office may conceive
that the best way to avoid losing these votes
is to he a sort of jovial parent to his em-
ployees. He may carry the process so far
that the camp becomes more of a loose and
casual and demoralised revel than a job in
the ordinary acceptation of the term. It
would require a good deal of demoralisation to
make the day-labor system as had as the old
contracting method. Put the deed might be
done—in fact, the day-labor system might be
made the worse of the two. Therefore, the
proposal to hold an inquiry into its results,
by way of clearing its character from the'
aspersions of its enemies, is reasonable
enough. To call this sort of audit “an in-
sult to the workers” is absurd. Even the
purest and noblest bank manager or church
treasurer expects to be insulted by a periodi-
cal audit.
4
An Explosion Among Gas Shareholders.
The N.S.W* Government has introduced ai
Bill which has made gas shareholders jump-
For the most part they are probably not:
disposed to quarrel much with the provisions;
relating to the quality and pressure of the
goods supplied through the company’s mains,,
because they realise that, in that matter,,
N. S. Wales lias been about the most back-
ward country in the world ; but the proposals;
relating to prices and dividends hit them
where they live. The idea is to establish a.
standard price and a standard dividend. So'
far as Sydney is concerned, the proposal is,
fix the price-standard at 3s. 9d. per 1000 ft.,.
and the dividend standard at 4 p.c. Each,
reduction of Id. in price below the standard
would entitle the company to pay a dividend;
i per cent, above the 4 per cent, standard.
The present, price charged by the two Sydney
companies is 3s. 9d., wherefore the price'
would have to come to 3s. sd. to entitle these
companies to pay 5 per cent., and to Is. 9d.
to enable them to pay 10 per cent. The Syd-
ney co.’s distribution for many years past has;
been 15 per cent., and that of the North;
Shore Co., 10 per cent. The only modifica-
tion of this rule relates to the first three
years after the Act has come into force. Fer-
tile . first year a company, which has been,
paying a dividend of 10 per cent, or more for
the previous three years, may distribute the
mean, between 10 per cent, and 4 per cent.,
that is to say, 7 per cent. For the second
and third years the Bill permits it to distri-
bute between 7 per cent, and 4 per cent.,
that is to say, 5£ per cent. These are drastic
provisions, and it is certain that, even if the
Government could put them through the
Assembly, they would have a very rocky
road in the Council. In a matter of this
sort nobody can say absolutely that any one
specific rate of dividend is the only fair rste.
All that it is possible to do is to hit on
something that gives substantial justice to
the greatest number, while inflicting the mini-
mum of hardship, on anybody. No doubt the
“poor widow” will be resurrected. Nearly
everybody will, no doubt, sympathise with
the investor, who suddenly finds
her 15 per cent, cut in halves: at the same-
time the hard, callous fact is that the lady,
or the man who made provision for the lady,
had no right to assume that the Australian
Gaslight Co.’s 15 per cent, would be perpetual.
If Sydney was supplied with water by a
company which charged so much for ’ the
fluid that it was able to pay 100 per cent,
per annum, nobody surely would argue that
the public had no right to interfere, and that
its simple duty was to go on paying exorbi-
tantly for its water to the end of its days.
Or,, if Private Enterprise owned the trams
which carry passengers from the railway
station into the city, and charged 6d. per
head for the service, nobody surely would
contend that interference was uncalled for,
even though the interference might mean the
reduction of Private Enterprise’s dividend.
Probably even this gas co. might transfer its
custom, for coals from Jones Ltd. to Smith
Ltd., if it could get the coals more
cheaply, even though the change might
knock the bottom out of the Jones
Co.’s long-established dividends. The “poor
widow,” like every other investor, has
been warned often and long enough, and
if she has chosen to take the risk and pay
£l7 for a £6 gas share, it is very easy to
have a great deal too much sympathy for her.
The only question worth seriously debating
is whether, in its strength, Parliament might
not achieve enough, even if it strained Justice
at the behest of Mercy. A fall from 15 per-
cent. to 7 per cent. —which to those who have;
recently invested in the shares of the big co..
really means from about 5J per-cent, to about
2|r per cent. —is certainly very steep. Yet,
after the first year, the fall will be still
greater than that. It might, therefore, rea-
sonably be considered whether the wind might
not be tempered to the shorn lambs or wolves,
or whatever they may be, over a greater
number of years than three, provided that
some, concession is forthwith made to the
public. Also, since neither the State nor
any other authority guarantees anything, and
since gas will still be liable to be outed by
a superior illuminant, the standard dividend
is probably fixed too low at 4 per cent,
especially as a co. is not to he allowed to
accumulate a reserve securing the payment of
dividends under adverse conditions. "The cor-
rect thing, of course, is the municipalisation
of the whole business. Then all these finick-
ing provisions might be swept out of the-
way. The question of the purchase price
would still have to be settled, and it is one
over which a sea of arguments could be
spilt, but it would at least get rid of the
necessity to safeguard the public as to the
highly important but hitherto outrageously
neglected matter of the purity of the supply
and its quality in other respects.
Tudor and Boots.
Another result of Australia’s mongrel
tariff is coming home to roost, so to speak,
on the back fence of that alleged Protection-
ist, Customs Minister Tudor. Victoria is
(or was, as recently as 1910, which is the
last complete year covered by Knibbs’s
Statistics) the great hoot-making State of
the Commonwealth. It employed almost as
many bootmakers as all the other
States put together. But in 1910 the
number of people employed in Victorian
bootmaking was on the down grade, and so
was the number of bootmakers employed in
Queensland, S.A. and Westralia. Since
then, it is reported, the industry has grown
worse, from an employment point of view,
till at last the Victorian bootmakers are
being sacked in considerable numbers. And
as the centre of the Victorian boot industry
is in Customs Minister Tudor’s electorate,
his constituents, the sacked bootmakers,
greatly desire to know what Customs Minis-
ter Tudor has to say about it. The value
<of imported boots increased about SO per
cent, between 190 S and 1911, and on top
of that the imports for the first five months
of 1912 are well ahead of those for the first
five months of 1911. And the exports have
dropped by one-third since 1908. The popu-
lation hasn’t increased at a rate which cor-
responds with this rise in imports, nor has
the local inhabitant become a tripod or a
centipede. The importing boom is, appar-
ently, only possible because of the stagna-
tion in local production, which means that
the constituents of Customs Minister Tudor
tend to become short of a job. Cheap labor
imports, and sweated labor and scab and
Chinese and Japanese imports, are all multi-
plying, and. by its tacit encouragement of
them, the Fisher Ministry goes hack, not
only on its avowed Protectionism, but also
on its union policy, and its fair wage and
anti-sweating policy, and its short-hour pol-
icy, and its White Australia policy. In all
such cases, the explanation of the Fisher
Ministry is that it can’t reconcile it with its
conscience to raise the tariff until it has
provided that wages will be raised to
correspond. But the trouble is that wages
are in process of being raised all the time,
while the tariff remains stationary. Thus
within recent years the minimum wage of
the Victorian bootmaker has gone up from
455. to 545., while the tariff has been torpid
or petrified. It is, in fact, lower than it was
in Victoria before the Commonwealth came
into existence. And for want of an export
duty on hides—another tariff matter which
the Government refuses to attend to —the
Australian boot manufacturer has to pay
fully 50 per cent, more for his raw material
than he did a very few years ago. When
this disability is added to the increased
wages and the soporific tariff, the down-
wardness of the boot industry is not remark-
able. It is simply one of the first businesses
to bump against the inevitable —the impossi-
bility of combining high local wages with
low duties and a huge importation of col-
ored or sweated labor goods. In the cir-
cumstances, the platitudes of the Fisher
Government, which seems to be practically
bossed by the Freetrader Hughes, carry
little comfort to the parties most concerned.
Hughes depends mostly on a Sydney wharf-
laboring vote, and a wharf laborer is a man
who lives, to a great extent, by dragging
cheap foreign goods (including Japanese
boots) off a foreign ship, which, in many
•cases, is a nigger-manned ship. The growth
of local manufactures would probably dam-
age Hughes’s constituents. Therefore, that
astute politician isn’t quite in the same boat
with Tudor, the man who represents the
most solid mass of white, trades-unionist
bootmakers in Australia.
-♦ — :
As to Back Yards, Municipal Intellects,
and Similar Afflictions.
A few energetic, public-spirited individuals
composing the Coburg (Vic.) Progress Asso-
ciation have lately engineered a Minimum
Allotment movement, which promises suc-
cess, so that it may be illegal for anyone to
erect the beginnings of a slum by planting
a house on less than a quarter-acre of soil
or thereabouts. The Argus naturally “views
the proposal with alarm,” as a “restriction
of Private Enterprise,” etc. The Age, which
might have been expected to aid the move-
ment, trails a red herring across the track
by showing that the Local Government Act
already gives municipal councils almost as
much authority as any new Bill would, and
recommends that the councillors be forced to
get a move on. The paper gives instances
of the awful ineptitude and mediaeval stodgi-
ness of these councillors. The Act gives
them power to regulate the distance between
dwellings, the materials of dwellings, over-
crowding, the size of backyards, the width
of streets and lanes, the use of insanitary
sites, and the demolition of insanitary dwel-
lings; yet the regulations are generally so
out of date and archaic as to be a farce,
while some suburban councils have not
troubled to draw up any at all. Thus, the
minimum area of backyards in Northcote is
—hold on to something!—so square feet
(say 7ft. each way), or about the size of a
decent double bed. In Fitzroy and South
Melbourne it is 200 square feet (say 14ft.
each way). In Haw-hawthorn and Rich-
mond the limit is 300 square feet (about
17sft. each way). Many a Toorak mansion
has a larger dining-room! Again, these
•councils may delimit the height of the ceil-
ing from the floor. Some don’t bother to
make any restrictions, others do it thusly:
Other
Attics. rooms.
South Melbourne 3ft. 6in. to 7ft. 6in. 9ft.
Fitzroy .. .. 3ft. 6in. to 7ft. Bft.
Hawthorn .. 3ft. 6i-n. to 7ft. 10ft.
Richmond .. sft. 6in. to 7 ft. 10ft,
Northcote .. Bft. 9ft.
The attic is mostly the camping place of the
Merely Mary Ann, where there is one, and
in hotels, etc., of the “boots” or the “gen-
erally useless,” and the amount of sleep
these unfortunates would get on a January
night in a room from 3ft. 6in. to 7ft. high
•can be imagined. ’Roy’s living rooms need actu-
ally only be Bft. high ! Most of these absurd
“regulations” were drawn up in the days of
•our gyandfatliers, and those old pioneers had
a mania for low roofs. Modern ideas stip-
ulate for living, and especially sleeping
rooms at least 12ft. in height, but apparently
it will take these backward Bumbles an-
other two generations to reach the present
day stage of common-sense as regards public
health. Yet the Age wants the matter to
remain in the hands of Bumbledom, and
recommends the public to stir the beast up
at the August elections. As well ask an
elephant to walk a tightrope! If Premier
Watt could be prodded into proceeding with
the Minimum Allotment Bill, and at the same
time dragooned into handing over to a fully-
empowered Board of Public Health the
whole control of the housing business, so
that the reactionary municipal councils could
be compelled to get alive, some good might
eventuate! Or what a sitting up of the dry
bones there would be if a decent minimum
building-area, and back-yard space, and
room-area, and room-height were enacted,
with the simple proviso that if any person
built a place which was below the standard
any other person could inform, and if the
case was proved, the premises would be sold,
and half the proceeds given to the informer?
That sort of Act would get along without in-
spectors. It would inspect itself.
About a Bare-headed, Bare-footed
Apostle.
“Cabbwe” : A point in connection with the
asyluming in Sydney of the economically-
garbed Chidley, which has, so far, escaped
the notice of commentators, is the peril it
involves to each and every one of us. Ac-
cording to the Callan Park authorities,
Chidley wasn’t apprehended on the score
of his costume. And, indeed, they could
hardly have run him in while letting Manly
surf-bathers, harbor yachtsmen, opera-fre-
quenting society ladies and so forth go free.
The gravamen of his offence against sanity
was his book, “The Answer,” wherein cer-
tain bizarre opinions are said to be ex-
pressed. I haven’t read “The Answer.” It
might appeal to me as utterly demented ; on
the other hand, it mightn’t. But sure it is
that if the arbitrament in these matters is
to rest with casual asylum-doctors, then is;
the good old liberty of the subject in a rot-
ten bad way, and Magna Charta. in danger
of becoming an archaic jest. The reason-
ableness, or otherwise, of any given view or
set of views on social, religious, or political
affairs is almost entirely a question of in-
dividual opinion. E’or example, to me most;
of the stuff talked at the recent Chapman
and Alexander mission appeared sheer
blithering lunacy. As an instance, at one
of the meetings, Chapman referred to>
Pilate’s action in washing his hands of all
responsibility for the Crucifixion of the
Lord. Said the Evangeliser :
Pilate was then showing the lack of moral cour-
age, and the lack of moral courage was his failure.
In “Letters from Hell” Pilate was depicted as wash-
ing his hands and crying, “Will they never be
clean!” No, they never would be clean!
So in the opinion of Chapman, poor old
Pilate, because of a moment’s weakness —
the sort of frailty that is liable to be dis-
played by any nervous office-holder at any
great crisis of his career—is destined to be
tortured, not for 3000 or 30,000 or
3,000,000 years merely, but for Eternity!
Does the medico who was responsible for
the seizure and incarceration of Chidley
agree with the above? Or, to put it another
way, does he not regard such sentiments as
wholly irrational and idiotic and in-
sane, and utterly, degradingly brutal?'
And, if so, why has he not taken steps to-
push the hairless gospeller from the U.S..
into the same retreat as the author of “The
Answer”? It is safe to say that to about
60 per cent, of educated folks to-day, the
doctrine of a “material hell” (the ' view,
namely, that a beneficent Creator gives us
certain tendencies, and if we yield to them
condemns us to be fried for ever) repre-
sents the wildest form of insanity which it
is possible to conceive. Suppose an asylum-
doctor happens to be one of the 60 per cent,
in question. Is he to be at liberty to lodge
in a lunatic asylum the residue of harmless
imbeciles who think and write the other
way? If so, one of two things will need to
be done, and that swiftly; either the Gov-
ernment must get to work on the construc-
tion of a few hundred fresh madhouses, or
it must provide a fleet of mail-steamers to
allow a whole army of fanatical females and
wild-eyed, Wowserous males to withdraw
themselves and their capital from the
country.
The Sydney Telegraph, being presumably a
nigger labor paper at heart, never misses an
opportunity to damn tropical Australia as a
white man’s country with faint praise, or to
applaud it with mild revilings. This is a
recent sample:—
The decision of the Federal Government to set
aside £4OOO for. the study of tropical diseases in the
Northern Territory may be welcomed as a wise step
in the path that has already been played by the Gov-
ernment of the United States in dealing with its
tropical and sub-tropical regions. If the Northern
Territory could be freed from malaria and other
tropical diseases that prevail there by the expendi-
ture of £4OOO, the benefit would be incalculable, and
the cost would be insignificant. Unhappily, it will
certainly be a long and tedious job to render the
new dependency of the Commonwealth free even from
the specific disease which has been traced to the
anopheles mosquito, but the sum of money which has
been placed on the Estimates for research and ex-
periments should enable a good beginning to be
made. The success with which the United States
Government has stamped out malaria in its zone of
territory in Panama, and yellow fever at New Or-
leans, gives good hope that eventually the Northern
Territory may be made reasonably clear of tropical
diseases.
Anyone might imagine, from that artless
dragging-in of New Orleans and Panama,
that North Queensland, instead of being
almost the healthiest white man’s country
in the world, was scourged regularly with
plague, cholera and yellow fever; and that
the Territory alongside was all a steaming
swamp, instead of being mainly a fairly dry
and reasonably cool upland region, varying
from a height of nearly 4000 ft. oh the south
to 600 ft. near the coast. Of course, there
are diseases there, including malaria, religi-
ous mania and senile decay. But, on the
other hand, the denizen of the North, to a
great extent, escapes some worse complaints
that he would probably get elsewhere. It
is a good idea to devote £4OOO for the pur-
pose of finding out how to combat malaria
in the North. But it is even more necessary
to devote £4OOO to an effort at the extirpation
of rheumatism, pneumonia and ’flu’ in the
region immediately adjacent to Federal Par-
liament house. Victoria, being the less
healthy place of the two, should have first
attention.
Surprise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I take exception to what has been done in this
matter, first of all, in connection with the visits
made by the expert appointed to recommend a site.
He received his instructions from the Government,
and, according to his report, which has been issued
to honorable members this morning, he visited 33
places. The first spot to which he went in New-
South Wales was the Federal Territory, and in his
report he states that he was unable, for various rea-
sons, to find at Yass-Canberra a suitable site for the
establishment of a woollen mill. It must come as a
great surprise to honorable members to learn that he
gave as one of his reasons that there was no water
there. —G. W. Fullkr, M.P., in Hansard.
Do you know what Surprise is, Camerados?
Immense and unmitigated surprise?
Astonishment —utter bewilderment ?
The feeling that as a particular Something
has happened, or occurred, Nothing
Else Matters!
An astoundment like unto the alleged Peace
of God, which the Prayer-Book says
passetli all understanding.
Taken unawares —fallen upon unexpectedly
—overtaken dv the Unforeseen;
As was Jonah by the Whale, Samson by
the Philistines, Job by Disaster, and
George Washington by his indignant
Father!
In a state of Daze and Amazement, like
unto the young man who achieves mar-
riage and has twins thrust upon him !
Or like unto the Small Boy who playfully
aimed a Pea-Rifle and didn’t know it
was loaded !
Or, again, like unto a certain member of an
uncertain Parliament who was filled
full with surprise;
To whom the truthful Minister said:
“ Brother , I cannot tell a lie; I did it
with my little Expert!
Whereupon he who was full of surprise be-
came Fuller !
And he cried with a loud voice: “Well, I’ll
he d —— d!” —or words to that effect,
Camerados.
And at this the four-and-seventy elders,
middle-agers and younkers were
mightily astonished —or pretended to
be;
Saying: “Go to!” —which is Scriptural for
“Rats!” and other small deer.
And the House resounded with surprise
and astonishment; even as the farm-
yard echoeth with the indignation and
wrath and surprise of all the other
poultry when a hen anguishedly cack-
leth: “Woe! Woe! Woe! Great Baby-
lon is falling, for I have laid an Egg!”
And who more troubled or more vociferous
than the Rooster, Camerados?
Who more horrified at the impending Fall
of Babylon than the, truthful Minister?
Who so full of regret and pained
astonishment?
Had he not done it with his little Expert?
Thirty-and.-three were the delectable places
wherein the little Expert had sojourned
seeking that which the true Scot keep-
eth out of his whisky.
In two-and-tliirty delectable places was
there found abundance, but at one
place, alas! there was no water there!
Now the name of that place is Yass-Can-
berra.
.1 do not deceive you, Camerados.
Long have we known it; long have our
brethren known it. Who has not
known it?. . ..
Ah, true! Fuller has not known it! Per-
adventure he readeth not the Daily'
Telegraph, nor the chronicles of the
Fishing Experts, nor the Meteorological
Records, nor the Year Books, nor the
Parliamentary Returns, nor the Special
Investigations of Oliver and John
Forrest.
Wherefore he is full of Surprise—and get-
ting fuller and fuller!
And desireth the four-and-seventy elders,
middle-agers and younkers likewise to
be full of Surprise.
But they cry aloud: “Go to!” —which, being
interpreted, is “ Get work!”
Truth is mighty and will prevail!
Great Babylon is not yet built, nor do the
wool-ships sail yet upon the mighty
Molonglo!
But we will praise the little Expert of the
three-and-thirty Delectable Places!
Yet we might have experienced that which
is filling Fuller fuller and fuller,
Camerados !
For, had the Little Expert, heedless of
George Washington’s great example,
declared that there was plenty of water
at Yass-Canberra., it would have come
as a great Surprise!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


IN So
f EADING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident#
Live Stock Insurance.
BBYand-
M
WE 3AY
BRIGHT&MERRY
Because the
self-satisfied
feeling which
makes one
MERRY is due
to a BRIGHT
appearance.
Therefore use
“NUGGET,”
and always be
BRIGHT and
MERRY. [2
BRIGHT"
ĥ
ħ
At Least 75 per cent.
of the picture-going Public of Sydney and Melbourne
patronise our Theatres.
Because
programmes, theatres, and service in general are better
than they can obtain elsewhere.
Join the Crowds. They Know a Good Show.
Managing- Director,
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
Purveyors of Photo=Play par excellence
to the great Australian Public.
From “10-2-4”: —
I am torn between admiration and wonder (a
weird sensation, let me tell you) at the scandalised
attitude the manager of the Canadian, cadets is
taking up in regard to the allegedly ‘‘cold” reception
his troupe has had from the Australian Government.
My admiration is of the sort that one always accords
an astute advertiser; my wonder is inspired by the
manager’s superb trans-Atlantic hide or gall.
Hearken to him in the S. M. Herald :
“I cannot disguise the fact that we were bitterly
'disappointed with our official treatment in Sydney.
I asked Mr. McGowen whether we could not be given
a concession in regard to travelling by train and tram.
In fact, as we are here, not to look at the scenery,
but for educational purposes, I looked for a free
pass. But he refused.
“The point that I have tried to make clear all
along, is that these boys are here to learn about this
country. We want to see what Australia is doing.
In Newcastle, for instance, we have been shown a
coal mine, and have been (thanks to the A.A. Com-
pany) immensely interested and instructed. But
where are your sheep, your agricultural lands, your
homes of commerce, your harbors, your factories ?
These are what we want to know about. We can’t
find them for ourselves.”
A s d so on.
He takes up the extraordinary attitude that, be-
cause he, and a number of youths and a band of
advance-agents, etc., elect to descend on Australia, in
search of knowledge, pleasure or what-not, that,
therefore, the folks who are running the country (in
the intervals of wrangling with the crowd which
aspires to rum it instead of them) should knock off
work, cheer heartily, speechify about the bonds of
Empire, etc., ladle out free tram and railway passes
to the visitors, and generally resolve themselves
into a species of entertainment committee. The only
justification for the above claim, so far as I can see,
is that it has been advanced successfully before. The
practice of trailing cadets round foreign countries
seems to be cjeveloping into a chronic habit of late.
The usual method is for the cadets to start off with
a tremendous amount of display and noise, and very
little money. Arrived at their destination they are
invariably “insulted” by the authorities. That is to
say, the authorities, being absorbed over their own
or the nation’s affairs, do not meet the lads on the
wharf and offer to pay all their expenses for an in-
definite period. A loud wail of misery having
ascended from the manager, the authorities are
goaded by the press to repent them of their neglect.
Cursing wearily, they proceed to do for the enter-
prising manager and his charges what they would
never dream of doing for (say) a wandering dramatic
co. The next development is for the uniformed
tourists to run short of cash. The Government is
reviled bitterly for this calamity. Citizens meet
and threaten it with destruction if it does not imme-
diately part up a large sum in ready money. The
manager adopts a large, reckless, gloomy attitude,
suggestive of an insolvent defying the bailiff, and
sows I 0 U’s right and left. The home-coming is
negotiated in an atmosphere of judgment summonses,
or threats thereof, infuriated tradesmen, unpaid ship-
ping cos., and all-round sordidness. Ultimately the
berated Government settles up for a jaunt which it
didn’t authorise, and which did neither it nor the
State the least good, and the populace settles down
to try and forget that the absurd excursion was ever
organised.
The Canadian cadet trip may be on the above
lines ; on the other hand, of course, it may not. All
that is sure is that there is no reason why Australia
should be interested in it. These boys and their
leaders, or promoters, or whatever they may be
termed, have most of the characteristics of the im-
memorial sundowner. About the only features that
differentiate them from the leisurely old wanderer of
Outback are their uniforms and their youth. Picture
the attitude of a foreign Government if a couple of
hundred sundowners turned up, called on the local
Minister for Agriculture, announced that they were
on an educative tour of the country, and asked for
nothing more than free railway passes, civic recep-
tions, public banquets, and the glad hand generally.
They would “probably be kicked over the frontier or
into the sea, with expressions of contumely. In my
opinion, this wholesome practice should be starkly
inaugurated all over the Empire in the case of the
peripatetic cadet. In default, a movement might be
started in the more self-respecting States, having for
its object that all cadets who were incapable of ban-
quetting themselves, paying their own railway fares,
and emphyying guides to the various places of in-
terest and instruction which they ejected to visit,
should be legally compelled to stay at home.
-*
Altson’s 30ft. corner of Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, was sold last week to the flourishing
tobacconist who trades on it for £23,000,
which works out at something like £64 per
inch! Lord onlv knows how many yards
of trade-starved Port-
land one couldn’t
buy for the same
money! The terrific
land values of
bloated Melbourne
have been built up
by strangling places
like Portland; and
now the day is at
hand when the big
modern ships w r ill be
unable to look at the
marine front door of
the city where land
is £768 a foot. Tak-
ing one thing with
another, “marvellous
Melbourne” seems
to have reached high-
water mark, for the tide will start
to ebb when the first big shins steams
contemptuously past the distant Heads. The
Port Phillip pilots, up to now a very select
band of Private Enterprise sea guides—pro-
viding they can see through the financial
mist —must be rather glad that their salaries
will, in future, come out of the Common-
wealth’s capacious pocket. Port Phillip, with
its difficult shallow entrance and never-end-
ing bay-channels, may become a second-rate
port any day ; and then the big money will
sail by, and the value of Collins-street front-
ages will start to sink. Within a few short
years, Melbourne may be heartily d —ning
the unhealthy policy that made a worm’s-
length of city clay worth the price of a seal-
skin coat, or six wildly extravagant she-hats.
Once trade starts to get away from the
worm’s-length of clay, and to dump the
foreign tobacco-smoker in a different State,
then the man who paid £64 per inch is going
to feel sorry for himself.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Blue Bird.”
Criterion “ Gel-Rich-Quiok Wallingford.”
Royal , “Merry Wives of Windsor.'’
Adelpiii ... “ The uirl Without a Home.”
Palace “Moilyßawn.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra. .. Continuous Pictures.
Princess , West’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Imper.al Rink Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Mary Proctor.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Quaker Girl.”
Princess’s “ Nobody’s Daughter.”
King s “ The Girl Who Knew a Bit.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Athexasum Hall Alexander Watson.
Bijou “The Fighting Chance.”
The inhabitants of that backblocks Ameri-
can township, Battlesburg, where Walling-
ford gets rich quick, are an interesting col-
lection of individual types. There is Andy
Dempsey, who in the experienced hands of
James H. Manning is the typical Irish pub
keeper. Edwin Lester, too, shows apt appre-
ciation of the character of the richest man
in Battlesburg. Fred Cambourne, that reli-
able Australian character actor, makes the
most of the part of the ’bus driver; and the
head waitress, Miss Margaret Dale-Owen,
chews gum with convincing fervor. It is
chiefly due to the fitness of the supporting
company that the exploits of Wallingford
and Daw have been so much appreciated by
Sydney audiences at the Criterion.
** * *
The Quinlan Opera Co. is uncoiling the
last kink in its musical tail. Bizet’s light
and popular opera, “Carmen,” was pro-
duced on Friday in Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney) as a first-night snack from old Seville,
where the orange-grove and the mandolin
and the senorita have their habitation, and
the mantilla is, and the Inquisition isn’t,
but was. Conductor Hubert Bath and the
orchestra under his hand made the only per-
fect patch in an uneven performance. The
chorus was too respectable for the streak, of
Hooliganism that Bizet pushed into a Seville
factory-girl’s wild-cat love affairs. The
alleged battle between the cigarette minxes
in the Square panned out like a polite mis-
understanding. No lady hit another lady
hard enough to brush the dust off her
Iberian duds. Yet these girls were Factory
’Ands such as Edward Dyson pictured, only
less educated and more primitive; and
doubtless Benno shambled about the prem-
ises, and the boss, Don Spats of Seville,
was even more frank in his language than
Spats of Melbourne. Tenor John Coates
was a manly and tone-sweet Don Jose, but
he was downed by a lean unattractive Car-
men, who looked like his mother. Vera
Courtenay’s primary failure seems to con-
sist in daubing her good features with bad
make-up that cracks like the paint on a
jerry-built villa when summer smites its
pale brown face and looks its back verandah
in the eye. Her facial get-up wants some-
The surrender to English opening dates. Quinlan
unwillingly departs for the cold climate.
thing oleaginous to stop it wrinkling like
last year’s winter apples. As a singer, Vera
Courtenay knows her business, but ner vocal
stock-in-trade is too limited for the whole-
sale output of opera. Gladys Ancrum, as
one of Carmen’s lady friends, sang her small
part remarkably well. She is a promising
youngster with a future. The little Onelli,
the meek Micaela of Friday’s production,
warbled her occasional solo as well as could
be expected in the case of a maiden who had
a cold in her throat and was full of re-
pressed sneeze. Tenthly and lastly, breth-
ren, before the plate goes round, the Esca-
millo of W. J. Samuell was a highly respect-
able institution.
l!l ij >
This (Thursday) afternoon the Quinlan
symphony orchestra will fill Sydney Town
Hall with harmonious row and disturbance.
The programme swirls round Wagner’s
overture, “Die Meistersinger,” and the evo-
lutions of Tschaikowsky’s symphonv No. 5.
Agnes Nicholls will be the star vocalist.
At the Palace, on Saturday night, Ireland
got another patriotic advertisement out of
Allen Doone and co.; or, possibly, it was
Allen Doone got another advertisement out
of Ireland. The name of the new piece is
“Molly Bawn," or “Molly Doone nee Bawn,’’
and, of course, it afforded Allen another
splendid opportunity of appearing as the
usual “broth of a bhoy” who hugs and
kisses the colleens in an irresistible manner,
and breaks out into song at frequent inter-
vals. His (stage) hearers, on such occa-
sions, drink in each note with every sign of
ecstasy ; yet, in a drawing-room scene, they
are so inattentive that he is enabled to kiss
the mesmerised Molly, who has been drawn
across the room to him by his “milting
sthrains.” Everyone capitulates to the
charm of the unconventional young Hiber-
nian. Even old Lord Amherst can’t resist
him. Amherst is a grand old gentleman
who is made up striped like a tiger, and dies
savagely, in three acts, with the assistance
of an incredible nigger with a bath-towel
tied round his head. He keeps his house
full of abject guests so as to have a good
selection of people to insult while he is
dying, and alters his will about three times a
day. His tame lawyer seems to live on the
premises, and to put in his time by wearing
kilts and playing tennis. In Act 111, Am-
herst is justifiably poisoned by his grand-
daughter Marcia, whose duty it is to pour
out his regular four drops of sleeping draught.
This stuff is so strong that an overdose
serves to kill him in about 40 seconds.
Thenceforward, the triumphal progress of
Allen Doone proceeds more peaceably to its
glorious conclusion, Which, of course, is
the delectable Molly Bawn. Robert Emmett,
his speech from the dock, and the spiky pen
itself, are introduced into the gay and bril-
liant fancy-dress scene with great success.
St. Patrick and Parnell would be equally
welcome; but, unfortunately, Allen can only
inhabit one set of garments at a time. The
ramifications of the plot need not be traced.
The star’s the thing, and he shines all the
time —except when he is crossed in love;
then he has the stern and deliberate air of
an angry undertaker at a late funeral, or a
religious grocer during a mission. Edna
Keeley makes a winsome Eleanor Masse-
reene (Molly Bawn). Ethel Bashford, as
Marcia Amherst, does creditably. Ronald
Riley never succeeds in looking vicious and
heavily involved, as the spendthrift grand-
son, Phillip Shadwell. One suffers all the
time from a suspicion that the loan of half a
sovereign will get him out of all his diffi-
culties. O. Edgeworth and Vincent White
struggle respectively in the roles of a society
he-ass and the kilted family lawyer. In re-
marking that the lawyer is a trifle better
than the he-ass, the writer is not filling the
pint-pot of praise to overflowing.
Mile. Neptuna is the briny name of a
youthful mermaiden, who is putting in a
short season in a large glass tank at the
Crystal Palace. Possessed of a beautiful
figure, and long hair, she is the picture of
grace as she torpedoes through the water.
Reclining on the bottom of the tank she
reads a paper, writes a note, and then takes
some refreshment. Then she goes through a
number of strokes—the overarm, side stroke,
breast stroke, crawl, and a number of styles
of backward swimming. On the whole, the
show is the wettest of its kind yet brought
to these parts.
HC $ *
The Lyceum has a constellation of star
pictures this week. “Saved from Siberia”
is presented with the largest and blackest
letters in the programme, although the
“Olympic Military Tournament” and “Lum-
bering in Australia” (a Pathecolor film)
deserve quite as much ink. “Saved from
Siberia” is the flick of a story a
damsel, anxious to earn some money, accepts
a position in a Russian generai’s house,
and agrees on behalf of a secret society to
obtain plans of a fort. , She is detected by a
captain (who had previously fallen in love
with her), and imprisoned. The captain
helps her to escape in a motor-launch, but
is suspected of having somethin v to do with
the plans. The girl, however, proves his
innocence, and they marry and are flicked
off before we can find out if thev lived hap-
pily. “Under Two Flags,” by Ouida, is to
be screened next week.
To-morrow (Friday) night, Dick Scott,
the virtuous Gunner at the Adelnhi, will
dash the villainous Grant to the ground for
the 958th and last time. After that he and
the oft-won missus will retire from active
warfare for 24 hours, when he will probably
proceed to win her again by different methods.
On Saturday night George Marlow, out of
kindness of heart (or purse), will shelter
“The Girl without a Home” until such time
as she ceases to earn her living, and pay
theatrical expenses.
Those tlirete cheerful romps, the Sisters
Sprightly, came back to Sydney and to
their old stand at the Tivoli, last Saturday.
A humorless dress burlesque is,clever and
original, but a golfing turn can’t compare
with the condensed romantic drama they
brought along last trip. Rich and Rich, a
pair of male eccentrics, are a trifle weari-
some in the gagging part of their turn; but
a sort of noble and fearfully involved pro-
cessional chant about King Caractacus pass-
ing along is very stirring as they render it.
Jessie Stuart, au exceedingly tall girl with
fine eyes and voice to match, scores easily
with a couple of songs. Aubrey Mallalieii
and Miss Douglas act gracefully a comedy
playlet by Cosmo Hamilton; but they bit-
terly disappoint a small section of the shil-
ling deities by neglecting to do a break-
down. (Whom the gods love rattle their
heels.) Other second part turns are pro-
vided by the serious Stavordale Quintette,
Alec Hurley, Fanny Powers, Fred Bluett,
the Alginas and Charles Zoli.
“ THE GIRL
WHO KNEW
A BIT,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Cyril MacKay as
Raymond Beau-
Morris, the vir-
tuous lover.
Blifkins (an
impossible
footman).
Lizzie North (THE
girl who knew a
bit): “ It’s a lie!”
Carrie Moore is still going like mad at the
National Amphitheatre. In fact, it would
not be overstating the case to mention that
she is progressing, artistically speaking, in a
manner suggestive of an unpopular Ameri-
can nigger fleeing before the wrath, revol-
vers, petroleum, etc., of 700 free and enlight-
ened TJ.S. citizens. As the above is one of
the speediest acts in the repertory of the
human athlete it will be readily seen_ that
Miss Moorb is no slouch at her business.
Budd and Clare have arrived, likewise the
Five Harmonising Bohemians, and this
paper has no brick to heave at any of these
seven deserving and hardworking tourists.
Gus Harris is back with his Hebrew imper-
sonations ; the Pechilli troupe is thinking of
folding its aggregate pigtail like a rope-end,
and silently stealing to Melbourne; and in
other respects the programme is in a state
of flux.
“Othello,” that harrowing Elizabethan
phillipic against the practice of mating
white with black, is revived at Sydney
Royal. As a production, it is superb. The
elocution of Asche, his tuneful and robus-
tious voice, and his appreciation of the
music of Shakspeare’s verse are rare boons
in these days of enfeebled and undertrained
mummers. Yet, neither in Othello’s hours
of ease, nor when he figures successively as
a troubled and anguished and homicidal and
despairful nigger, does he become part of his
environment, as it were. Are we so far re-
moved from the period when it was consid-
ered seemly for a colored person to be hum-
bly served by a retinue of self-respecting
Caucasians, that it is impossible _ for us to
realise that such a state of things, could
ever have obtained? Or are the whites at
the Royal too modern and finicking and
brushed-up to make their association with
the Moor credible? Who shall say? Any-
how, the general effect is something sugges-
tive of a band of perfect ladies foregather-
ing, cheerfully, and as a matter of course,
with a demented jaguar—one of the most
unusual spectacles, perhaps, that natural


Ti
.Mj
mt
m
IPs'/
JTXX3
sm
’ ,^-i
h
Mill:
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
exclusively.
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND...
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
history has to offer. No praise can be much
too great for the technical excellence of
Asche’s Othello. Altogether a virile and
satisfying performance. Herbert Grimwood’s
lago is too bellow-dramatic for the writer’s
taste. Granted that the demoniacal villainy
and craft of this character must be indicated
for the benefit of the groundlings, the fact
remains that Grimwood grievously overdoes
the business. He luxuriates too obviously in
his scoundrelism. In any less half-witted
household than that of Othello, his indis-
creet chucklings, face-contortions and so on
would cause him to be unmasked and
pushed ingloriously into the street within a
week. Miss Lily Brayton appears at her
best as Desdemona. She has a genius for
expressing the pathos of helpless innocence,
and her appearance is exquisitely suited to
the deed. PI. R. Hignett’s Cassio is good ;
Alfred Bristowe gets a heap of comic relief
out of the role of Roderigo, and Miss Frances
Wetherall supplies an unusually effective
Emilia. “The Merry Wives of Windsor”
transpire at this playhouse on Saturday
next. /
** * *
The Appendreena Society in Adelaide does
not imitate the Literary Theatre, but goes
for the plays that have been popular suc-
cesses, or those that would be. Of the latter
is “His Excellency the Governor”—and why
it has not been seen locally on the regular
stage is a marvel. It is aW. S. Gilbert idea
treated in modern style. In a British col-
ony, the natives are restless; and the secre-
tary of State for the Colonies looks in, on
his travels, to see how things are going.
Just then the century-aloes are in flower,
and a local superstition has it that their
yellow dust carries the love-making germ.
So the Governor, and his private secretary,
and his A.D.C., all fall in love with the
politician’s daughter, and he pursues an ad-
venturess who happens along. And there
are other amorists, too. The language is
comedy, and the situations are often farce.
Only a few songs are needed to make it a
first-class comic opera. The skilful Appen-
dreena amateurs (coached by Clement
May) slid through this light stuff easily
and effectively, though the native rising in
the last act needed more room and more ap-
pliances than a suburban hall can command.
* * * *
At Adelaide Tivoli is a first-time-in-Aus-
tralia turn, the Rallis and Wilson trio. The
lady just drifts in and out and sings—un-
commonly well. The two men fall about—
fall over a table, and each other, and even
over themselves when alone —fine athletes
and clever humorists. So are Keldine and
Klimo, the cyclists ; so is Pastor, the strong
sluggard. But it is the De Serris troupe, in
living statuary, that is filling the Tivoli to
the doors nightly. Only one wishes that
they would “hold the picture” till curtain-
fall, instead of breaking it up to bow. The
King’s has a long and strong bill, including
Lowe, who “exposes” gambling-tricks, and a
lot of brilliant dancers, Hamlin and Mack
among them, and Cecile, Eldred and Carr.
Cisneros and Dufault have gone their ways,
after getting in an afternoon at the Town
Hall. The Royal stands pat on “Our Selec-
tion.” Other shows have included a Con-
servatorium concert, a Macully evening
with Kipling, an S. B. Hunt evening with
the Cabbage Patch lady, and a pathetic
“last rally” of the Scottish Corps, which,
vainly protesting, is about to have its kilts
torn off.
# $
This is a week of things mostly as before
at all the Melbourne theatres, save the Royal,
where painters and plasterers are busy, and
upholsterers are running up a bill. Mel-
bourne lost “You Never Can Tell” just when
the performance was beginning to go easily,
and the less intelligent members of the popu-
lation were recommending Shaw’s comedy to
their benighted friends. The Royal closed
down last Saturday, to be re-opened on
August 31, with “Ben Hur.”
'l* * -I*
“The Quaker Girl,” at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne), is still "going to the extraor-
dinary ball where she is supposed to be
queen of them all. Also, Jeremiah, Esquire,
continues to roam promiscuously through the
various portions of the tuneful entertain-
ment, and Phoebe slaps his face every even-
ing,_ in token of her love. Monsieur Larose
habitually cancels the engagement for a little
dinner.of three, at the cafe at the corner of
the. street; the Princess’s lawful husband re-
mains almost inseparable from his belltopper ;
Mrs. Blum’s dressmaking establishment has
lost none of its fashionable connection, and
Tony Chute plays the nondescript goat with
unremitting enthusiasm. All people are just
what, they were, barring the Prince, whose
identity is a matter of minor importance,
anyhow.
** * *
“The Girl Who Knew A Bit” will remain
at the King’s, in four acts and 16 tableaux,
for another week or fortnight. Everything
that can appeal to the pampered appetite of
an Andersonian audience is crowded into this
masterpiece of audacity. Even the title is
an exciting cause for wonderment. In the
first place, the young woman of limited
knowledge is not the heroine of the uproar.
The heroine is a poor but blue-blooded per-
son, who cannot strike an attitude without
betraying her lofty lineage. An admiring
advertisement says of Lucy: “There’s no
mistaking her —one of the Manners of Battle
Castle to her finger tips. Birth and breed-
ing in the poise of her head. So the diamond
has shone through the years, undimmed by
its coarse setting of squalid sordidness.’’ Miss
Vera Remee impersonates the glittering ex-
ponent of noble birth, whereas Miss Wilton
is explained on the bill as the girl in the
name part. Her speciality is back-hair,
seemingly. When her copious tresses break
loose from her masculine disguise, on a
tropical island, C. Brown identifies her as his
long-lost wife, and flies to the equator, or
somewhere, for protection. Whereupon, his
brother castaways weaken in their evil de-
signs upon the tart who knew a trifle, being
impressed by the sanctity of the marriage
tie, apart from the fact that the other lady
has commanded them to remember they had
mothers when they were young. Confronted
by which unexpected developments, the ship-
wrecked ruffians pause in their mad career,
whilst Cyril Mackay hurls defiance at them,
and the ladies push out to sea —the deep,
blue, glassy ocean—-in a self-acting punt.
Most of the other incidents beggar descrip-
tion.
** * *
For only two more nights the professor of
dynamics from Mars will deliver his Message
to Horace Parker, at the Princess’s. It is
not for want of financial encouragement that
the durable, fantastic comedy is passing out
after Friday night. Melbourne has not
often taken the Message more numerously, or
felt so much the better for it. Nobody, so
far as this paper knows, is liehaving any the
better for it; nevertheless there is a grand
re-awakening of the old idea that Otherdom
ought to be encouraged in other people.
Besides, women have made a great advance
in Rights since Horace first fell asleep in
his arm-chair; therefore the brutal selfish-
ness of the bachelor who takes a Minnie for
granted, when he ought to be thanking
Heaven for her unparalleled goodness, is
more abominable than ever. The Message is
about to be withdrawn because the Plimmer-
Denniston season is nearing its end. “No-
body’s Daughter” comes along on Saturday,
to stay four nights. One night each of “A
Village Priest” and “Mrs. Tanqueray,” with
Titheradge and Mrs. Brough in their old
parts, will close the account.
* 4: 4s 4=
Coming events, at Melbourne Town Hall,
are a farewell concert by the Quinlan opera
co., on Monday. (19th), and the first appear-
ance of Mrs. Ivirkby Lunn, on Saturday
(24th). The contralto songsterss is of quite
sufficient eminence to be mentioned without
the prefix of “Mrs.” (which is commonly cor-
rupted into “Madame”), but her second
name, unfortunately, demands the first name
to give it dignity, and Kirkby sounds like a
gentleman.
* * :< *
Alexander Watson, the monologuist. who
would have special permission from Shaks-
peare, if the Bard were still alive, starts a
return season, at the Athenaeum Hall, next
Saturday. The play for the opening night
is “The Merchant of Venice,” in which Alex-
ander, as- Shylock. is considered to share the
honors with Watson as Portia.
A Fat
Figure of
Fate. Car-
men (Vera
Courtenay)
sees death
in the cards
and Coates
in her
mind's ey..
The Bijou will resume, on Saturday, for
the joy and glory of Melbourne, its long-
time abandoned capacity of a melodrama
theatre. William Cosgrove’s new co. comes
to light in “The Fighting Chance,” which
is a free and furious adaptation of “The
Dope Doctor,” loaded with Boer War epi-
sodes and strewn with fallen heroes.
* *
The Opera House just now is well fur-
nished with attractions of various sorts. In
the case of Nella Webb, the artist is a more
attractive sort than her entertainment. On
that dread day when all secrets are revealed,
Nella Webb, the Incomparable American
Diseuse, will have to explain why she chooses
such cheap, machine-made samples of serio-
chronic ditties for her artistic diseusing. She
gives fine points to the stodgiest lines, and
delivers antique music-hall sentiments with
new and original expression. Her costume
and her musical accompaniments are equally
pretty, but her “turn” is merely a sugges-
tion of the better effects she might produce
with worthier material to work upon. The
Four Amaranths, back for a few nights, are
an interesting contrast to the five acrobatic
Paxtons, and there are others who come
singly or in couples, to fill their allotted
span of time. The latest of the others is
La Freya, a living picture lady, who appears
against artistic backgrounds, and whose
figure in tights is clothed with visionary
garments at the will of the limelight man.
The City of P’ran (Vic.) Lyric show on
Saturday wandered over a considerable area
and many ages of this planet. It included
“When Kings Were Law” (and the verdict
is that they were very poor law, and that
the statutes were badly printed) ; “Love is
Stronger than Gold” (the jury decided,
without leaving the box, that it isn’t) ;
“Rare Aquatic Animals” (which was partly
nightmare and partly devils turning somer-
saults in beer) ; and “The Sponge Indus-
try” (commendable because it encouraged
the washing habit). “Yiddle and His Fiddle”
represented a dastardly attack on the
Hebrew race which has lent us so much
money, and it only requires 16 more “com-
edies” of the sort to prevent the next loan
floating.
* XS sfc *
West, who is becoming renowned for his
long-distance films, turned on “ ’Twixt War
and the Girl,” at his Melbourne address on
Saturday. The picture had the Franco-
German row for a background, and a love-
story in front. A second war drama was
“Fighting . Dan McCool,” wherein Dan, a
dressy United States soldier, pursued women
and spies with a dauntless crease in his per-
fect pants. And there were others.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Locust”: Re Evangelactors Chapman and Alex-
ander. When they first came to Sydney the “churches”
were cold, not to say hostile to them. The local
pulpiteers suspected that powerful competition had
arrived in a business out, of which the bottom already
looked to be dropping with a dull, mouldy old thud.
But the missionisers soon showed them their error.
They put the agitated “churches” wise to the well-
known theatrical tip or axiom that where a Big
Attraction is staged a Show-going mania is automati-
cally created. Everyone wants to go to the Big
Attraction. If they can’t get in there they go to
some other theatre. Thus the B.A. not only fills its
own but every other treasury. The parsons saw the
force of the argument and sto.rmed the evangelactors’
platform with the enthusiasm of men who see their
way clear to connect with easy money. Spme of the
wilder optimists among them had visions of the day
when they would be able to stay at the Hotel Aus-
tralia, like the Chapzanderites, on the proceeds of
soul-salving. That hasn’t happened, so far ; but, un-
doubtedly, the little kirks and bethels, which of yore
allured none but a few old women and a handful or
so of doddering males, are drawing infinitely better.
And so long as the star Satan-harassers remain, and
for as much, perhaps, as a fortnight after they depart
that gratifying state of affairs is going to prevail.
“Chuddah” : The Yiddish Theatre, in the Melbourne
Temperance Hall, fizzes like that in Jerusalem, where,
however, the performances are not in Yid, but in
Hebrew. Yid expires in Jerusalem. The Melbourne
Temperance Hall company has just been favored
with a crammed house, for Goldfaden’s melodrama of
“Bar Kochba,” with the first appearance of a new
star, Reitzin, from New York. The play deals with
those terrific events which led to the second revolt
against the Romans, and the third great destruction of
Jerusalem —(1) Nebuchadnezzar; (2) Titus; (3)
Julius Severus. Nevertheless, there is abundance of
humor and a lot of good singing. Reitzin was the
hero, like a re-incarnation from the Judas Macca-
beus of about 200 years before. A highly picturesque
actor, full of impetuous vigor and energy, which
carried away the audience. Miss Finkelstein, the
heroine, was excellent, too, particularly in her wel-
come singing. Finkelstein was the lago of the piece,
with a good deal more fun than lago. Indeed, a sort
of Mephistopheles. Mendelssohn scored also as Rabbi
Eliezer, who might be compared with Talleyrand, a
dignified, but subtle, temporiser, who wanted to do a
judicious knuckle-under or crawl to Rome. Manager
Nathan made a speech of thanks for the overwhelming
patronage. He gave it to be understood that the
Yiddishers would soon be in the field for a permanent
Melbourne theatre.
For the first time a British King and Queen went
in State to a music-hall performance on the night
of July 1. It was an interesting event in its way,
but hardly sufficient to justify the London Tele-
graph letting off such fireworks as these in its three-
column report: “The King, as the head of the realm,
yesterday set the seal of his appreciation upon the
variety stage, and bestowed upon it a patent of
nobility.” The Palace was packed at big prices.
Although a music-hall performance, it was not a
music-hall audience, and the performers soon dis-
covered that the music-hall atmosphere, with which
they were acquainted, was missing. In its place
they found for the most part a dull, decorou and
highly respectable “Society function.” The. presence
of Royalty had the effect of subduing the inclination
to laugh, and nobody presumed to applaud except
on those rare occasions when the King or Queen
signified satisfaction by a patronising smile or a
faint flapping of the hands. The unwonted con-
ditions and unfamiliar environment had an ap-
preciably unnerving effect on even veterans like
Chirgwin, who has a record of half a century in the
halls. Chirgwin casually remarked that the evening
was “Warm and dry, same as I.” The expected
laugh did not come from the Royal box or anywhere
else, and the white-eyed, would-be humorist plaint-
ively confessed he was “sorry that he didn’t go.”
After that he tried no more of what one paper calls
his “spontaneous impudence.” Cinquevalli, who,
like Chirgwin, has made the acquaintance of Aus-
tralian audiences, was one of the great successes of
the evening. Our old friend Little Tich was also
seen and heard to advantage as a gamekeeper and in
his grotesque big-boot dance. George Robey, who is
married to an Australian girl (Ethel Haydon, of
Melbourne), scored as the “Mayor of Mudcumdyke,”
a good skit on the fussy, self-important local chief
magistrate, who has made himself a bore and a
nuisance to King George on many a country station
platform. Harry Lauder, the most highly-paid man
now in the halls, came at the tail-end of the pro-
gramme with one of his Scottish ditties. There were
two conspicuous failures —Vesta Tilley and Wilkie
Bard. Vesta is the champion male impersonator,
but while she was singing about “Algy, the Picca-
dilly Johnnie,” the Queen ostentatiously averted her
gaze from the stage, showing evident disapproval
of ladies in breeches. The audience took the hint,
and Vesta departed in solemn silence. Nothing
special happened to Wilkie Bard, except that he
froze. Some people thought King George would
wind up the proceedings by knighting Alfred Butt,
the manager of the Palace, but he didn’t.
“Molly Microbe”: The theatre-packing trouble is
not made any the pleasanter by the type of packers
employed in many of the sardine tins dedicated to
the glory of Bill Shakspeare and various other Bills
and Jims. That the packer must be something of a
professional pugilist, or wrestler, or jiu-jitsu expert,
seems to be a generally-accepted managerial axiom.
Of course, if he happens to be a gentleman as well
as a scrapper, many little problems find easy and
smooth solution ; but when he is merely a pug, and
threatens some crowded and perspiring fat man with
a “punch on the jor,” there is a unanimous feeling
of resentment in the vicinity that doesn't conduce to
the future adiposity of the cash-box. I grant that
when a heavy-jawed individual sprawls over two or
three seats the pugilist is a handy animal to have off
the chain ; but the thing may be overdone. Almost
everything may be overdone. In a Sydney theatre
the other night, while scientifically diminishing my-
self in order to fit into the smallest and most uncom-
fortable space conceivable, I heard no less than four
challenges delivered by packer pugs. And the chal-
lenged persons were not fighters, but mere ordinary
inoffensive patrons, who had each paid for a seat,
and not for the loud and ungrammatical promise of
a fistic collision with their countenances.
Some people can get along very comfortably on
small incomes, whereas they go bung on big ones.
Composer Leslie Stuart, who is now going through
the London Bankruptcy Court, is a case in point.
When he was plain Thomas Barrett, getting £4O a
year as organist of a Roman Catholic Church, plus
an occasional guinea for thumping the piano at
smoke concerts, he lived within his means and made
both ends meet. For some time past his musical
comedies—“Florodora,” “Havana,” “Peggy,” etc.—
have been bringing him from £4OOO to £5OOO a
year, and yet he had to borrow from the Jews at
ruinous rates, through “living beyond his means.”
He estimates his liabilities at £5OOO, but he has
musical contracts on hand that he expects will bring
him £lO,OOO, so the Judge gave him a fortnight to
“submit a scheme.” Stuart is the , man who com-
posed “The Soldiers of the Queen,” bawled by every
idiot at “Mafficking” time.
Times have altered somewhat—not to say much-
what —in Melbourne since Mary Proctor’s late papa
drew the town to hear him lecture on the “Heavens,
and the astronomical wonders thereof.” That was
30 years ago, when Melbourne was still crowded
with staid citizens who had been born under the
same half of the firmament as the lecturer, and who
accepted the scientist from England as a compliment
to this crude young country. Richard Proctor of
yore could draw upon the wide resources of senti-
ment and curiosity for his audiences, whereas daugh-
ter Mary to-day can only appeal to the few people
who are interested in astronomy and attracted by
her fine collection of lantern slides. Even her re-
lationship to the author of “Stories of Starland” is
commercially valueless. Her father’s name has no
traditional significance for the young man in the
street.
“Vnlcan”: The fatuity that actuates the British
theatrical censor isn’t very far ahead of uiat oi ms
German equivalent. After the first performance of
Otto Neitzel’s opera, “Die Barberena,” in Prussia,
recently, the police took possession and forbade fur-
ther performances. The reason given was that the
local law doesn’t allow of a Prussian King being
represented on the stage until he has been dead 200
years. The reputation of some of the Fatherland’s
potentates takes a lot of burying.
W. A. Brady, American theatre-manager, makes
the curious statement in London Referee that there
is room for lots of English actors in the U.S.A.,
because “our young people don’t go on the stage any
more. They take to stocks and shares, mining, and
so forth.” Brady states as facts that he and the
Schuberts have five companies “on the road” in the
States, all playing “Bunty Pulls the Strings,” and
all with real Scottish players. “We found we couldn’t
do with actors who merely played at being Scotch.”
(Continued on page 30.)
That portion of the Darling Downs, known as
Talgai West Estate, containing 22,500 acres, will be
submitted for sale at auction at Warwick, Queens-
land, on Wednesday, October 30. Plans, pamphlets,
etc., may be obtained on application to Gordon and
Gotch, Ltd., Sydney.*
The Melbourne divorce case, which ended
in the bonds or shackles between actress
Florence Young and her husband (Robert
Campbell Rivington) being amputated at
the suit of the latter, damaged the foolish
legal notion that the fact of both parties to
the marriage bargain wanting their freedom
is a sufficient reason why they shouldn’t get
it. Quoth Justice a’Beckett, when the full
contents of the case were displayed for his
inspection, “I think the respondent in this
cause wishes for this dissolution of mar-
riage, but I do not think that is a reason
why I should not grant it.” And he granted
it with all his might.
The miserable Sydney tram-conductor has
started to slow down. His troubles are (1)
that he is expected to keep time, and the time
is very short; (2) that he must give every-
body plenty of leisure to get on and off, and
when there are 10 people on each footboard
they do this very slowly; (3) that it is his
duty to look out on both sides before start-
ing, and when he has to trample over 10 people
every half-minute to do it, the position be-
comes impossible; (4) that he is to be calm,
unruffled, Chesterfieldian and diplomatic,
however hot and wild he may feel; (5) that
he is to collect all fares, whether he can
burst his way through the multitude or not.
Now, a heated and dusty person, with his
cap askew and his bag flying in all direc-
tions, threatens to carry out rules Nos. 2,
3, 4 and 5, and let rule No. 1 perish.
IN DEFENCE OF ODD GAGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne University students have just en-
acted “Miles Gloriosus,” a Latin comedy, written by
Plautus some 2000 years ago, and the most interesting
feature of the event was its demonstration that the
difference between the broad comedy of b.c. and that
of D.B.Y. (day before yesterday), is scarcely dis-
cernible.—The Bulletin (27/6/’I2J.
The comic mime to-day
Purveys the same old show
As on the Appian Way
Two thousand years ago.
He wore in times b.c.,
As do the modern pros.,
Tried props of comedee,
A red wig, ditto nose!
His gags and all his “biz”
E’en then, ’tis not denied,
AYere old, yet “screams” were his.
His famous “buttered slide,”
And red-hot poker tricks,
Evoked the biggest roars!.
To those worn “acts” he sticks ;
No new one ever scores
Like those invented in
The paleozoic past!
E’en the banana skin
As a prime jest will last
Till this old world shall die!
Wherefore the comic pro.
The old goods must supply—•
He knows they’re sure to “go.”
So gags that “went” all stay!
And cracked they still will be,
As on the Appian Way,
A heap of years b.c.
MAORILAND.
EARDLEY TURNER.


FOR GOLF-or EVERYDAY-
A CREPE SHIRT AT 5/6
The splendid value shirt illustrated here is of
light-weight crepe material; a fine texture for Sum-
mer wear, cool, and will wash and wear wonderfuly.
To be had in colorings of Blue, Green and Helio-
trope. Sizes, 14 to 18 inches collar. Speciallv is
this shirt adapted to golfing, or any sport or plea-
sure, being made with soft centre pleat, double de-
tachable collar, and double turn-back cuffs. All
edges are neatly stitched, and the cut is excellent.
David Jones’ are noted for their superior mercery—
and this shirt is an example of the high quality
alwavs to be obtained here This shirt may also
be worn as a practical Summer garment for every-
day wear.
PRICE 5/6
SENT CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY PART OF
AUSTRALASIA OR THE PACIFIC ISLES.
David J ones Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ĥ
ħ
Comfort
For One-Fenny-Farthing per day!
Warm Your Home with a
Perfection Oil Heater"
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
SOCIETY
PENOLDS
WINES
QUALIFIED.
“ But, my dear girl, I never paid a salary like
that to a typiste before.”
“Did you notice that i'm recommended as being
exceptionally Jast .”
Archdeacon Boyce, of Sydney, who an-
nounces his retirement from the long, fierce
battle with beer, has been doing his best for
30 years to dam the flowing bowl and smash
the glass that cheers. It is a great record
in fixity of purpose and concentrated vitu-
peration ; but, despite it all, the drunlf is
still numerous in the land, and defiant cray-
fish wave round every second lamp-post.
Does it ever occur to the temperance orator
that the draper (very often the devoted
shover of the collection-plate) is just as
dangerous an enemy of temperance as the
publican? As compared to the draper, the
publican is a modest and retiring trader.
The publican never holds bargain sales of
beer, or posts round tons of illustrated
whisky circulars. The draper does both
these things, and many more besides; and
he never lets up on the credulous class for
which he lays his snares. The ragman re-
cognises no close season —he keeps after his
victims all the time, shoving Spring off the
premises so that he can rush Summer goods
into his window, and strangling Summer
with sales long before Autumn is sighted on
the horizon. Barring the self-immured
females in convents, he owns the sex, purse,
body and soul. One glance at a draper’s
artfully-arranged window, and the unreason-
able human being whose clothes button up
the back is quite drunk and incapable, and
unfit to be in charge of as much as 44d.
Some of them occasionally get caught whilst
trying to shoplift some foaming lingerie or
a cool half-pint of hat, and are shamed in
the courts. Many more escape detection
and are damaged morally. The lady who
“falls” in order to obtain the clothes she
can’t buy herself is fairly common, as is
also the married lady who elects to have
dresses instead of children. But, though
the draper is behind it all, it is a rare and
wonderful thing for a parson to mention it,
and he never rises with the voice of consti-
tuted authority to order down Heaven’s ven-
geance on the cursed draplican. As for
permanent institutions to fight the evil of
hat and dress drunkenness —well, who ever
heard of the United Bonnet Temperance
League, or its official organ, The Cheap
Hat ?
Ex-Attorney-General Denny, of S.A., is
urging the Government to wipe out the
vice-regal mansion and the adjoining Desti-
tute Asylum on North Terrace, Adelaide,
and make the sites into a park. The vice-
regal humpy is fairly old. It was built by
Lieutenant-Colonel George Gawler, the
second Excellency of the Province, who was
called “Resident Commissioner” from 183 S
to 1841. Why he was called that is not
known. S.A. has had Excellencies who
were called by all sorts of terms, including
“Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the
Province of S.A.” (2) ; “Resident Commis-
sioner” (1) ; “Lieutenant-Governor” (2) ;
“Administering the Government” (1) :
“Captain-General and Governor-in-Chief of
the Province and Vice-Admiral of the Same”
(there were only two of this tremendous
creature) ; “Administrator” (two of this
humble cove) ; “Governor in and over the
Province of S.A. and the Dependencies
thereof” (1) • “Governor and Commander-in-
Chief in and over the Colony of S.A. and
its Dependencies” (6) ; “Governor in and
over the State of S.A. and its Dependencies”
(2). To return to Gawler, he was an heroic
explorer, a great land-settler, a fine bor-
rower, and according to his means and
chances he beat the old Pharaohs as a buil-
der. The gaol he put up would have held
the whole population as it was in his day.
“Quidam”: This habit of
wr a pping everything in
paper is interesting. If you
act as your own transport
agency for a new axe or a
bottle of beer, you expect
the purveyor to wrap a
piece of paper round it.
Everyone knows that you
have an axe or a bottle
under your arm, and you
know that everyone knows;
yet you feel quite happy and
respectable so long as the
futile disguise stays on. If
by evil chance the string loosens and
it falls off, you feel and look like a
convicted thief. We all know that
credit and such-like things are often
dependent’on paper: but apparently
self-respect frequently rests on the
same flimsy basis. It is to be hoped
that our shades will be provided with
decent brown bags in which to carry
our souls to Peter’s gate. I know I
shall be miserable on the long upward
journey, if I have to carry my
Chapman and Alexander under my arm,
loosely bundled and tied in last Wednesday’s
Hebaldgbaph.
* *
Chidley, the unusual person who wintered
in the streets of Sydney protected from the
weather by nothing more substantial than
a couple of yards of calico and a sheet of
cardboard, has been taken away to a refuge
for the insane, and the row consequent upon
his arrest threatens to shake the State to
its last merino. The nice point in dis-
pute is as to when a man may be
reasonably regarded as mad. If to wear
few clothes shows insanity, the greater
number of the inhabitants _of this
planet are fit subjects for putting under
restraint. Niggers, Greek gods,_ surf-bathers
and feminine vaudeville entertainers are all
in the same condemnation. Again, Chidley's
book may be one of tremendous moral and
scientific value, or it may be the mere crank-
iness of a man obsessed with a single idea,
but it is earnestly written, and decency of
purpose is marked all over it. Is a book the
work of a lunatic merely because it is quite
out of the common? As a matter of plain
fact,- most people who do anything much
Worth doing are regarded by other people
OF COURSE HE GOT THE JOB.
NEWSPAPER PROPRIETOR (to seedy applicant for writing job): "But where are your
credentials? You say you've written leaders for the Times and Morning Post
for the last 10 years, but where's your PROOF?”
SEEDY A PPLICANT: “I wrote them — er—quite anonymously."
who do nothing worth mentioning as some-
what insane. The mete holding of views
which the majority of people don’t like is
not a particularly strong proof of mental
disease. In Australia there are quite a num-
ber of respectable people who cling to theories
which have been proved by the solid logic
of practice and experience to be supremely
ridiculous and horribly dangerous to the
community; and yet no one suggests shut-
ting the holders of such theories up in asy-
lums. While a Freetrader goes at large,
there seems very little reason for running
in any other sort of crank.
“0.K.” : All my sympathies were with the
complainants in the Melbourne hair-cut
strike, which appears to have ended in the
defeat of the master barbers. The com-
plainants were male customers, who found
the minimum hair-cut raised to a shilling.
On further consideration I fancy that my
antipathy to professional barbering exceeds
my sympathy with the sheep who jibbed at
the charge of Is. for shearing. The hair-cut
should be a domestic rite where circum-
stances permit. Every girl who is taught
to use a pair of scissors should be instructed
in the simple art of shaving, cutting, mow-
ing and burping-off the grass that grows on
one’s flesh. A terrible lot of time and able-
bodied labor is wasted in the removing of
hair in barbers’ shops, where men sit rest-
lessly on chairs against the wall awaiting
their turns to be scissored, soaped, razored,
oiled and fooled with. This is work for
womankind at home, and seemingly men
were becoming alive to the fact what time
the shilling hair-cut charge was the rule of
the trade. Anyhow, the supply of customers
slumped alarmingly, and the price was soon
lowered to 9d., or the old original “tanner.”
Methinks I see the dawning of a day when
no man who has a home and a wbman about
him will be without razors and hair-cutting
implements on the premises, and when every
barber who is not also a wigmaker and a
dealer in feminine deceits will be driven
from his ill-ventilated “saloon” to do pro-
ductive work.
One of the divorce suits unfolded before
Justice a’Beckett, at the present Victorian
ifH nresentpd on unnsmllv srrndnni
s t . mgs ’ P iesente( i an unusually gradual
petitioner and an amazingly persistent co-
re. The latter first happened along as a
music teacher seeking pupils. The wife became
a pupil, and speedily discovered that the
“teacher” played divinely, and that she could
not exist without his music. The husband
presently became suspicious, and hearing his
wife crying one evening, when in the front
room with the co-re., he went to the door,
but found it locked. He desired the third
party to leave the house, but as the latter
straightly refused to do so, and even de-
clined to unlock the door, he went back to
bed again, after entering a protest through
the keyhole. On another occasion, the pesti-
lent co-re. called to see respondent at 1.30
a.m., when plaintiff “went downstairs and
turned him into the street —in fact, he
kicked him.” The co-re. was in no way
annoyed at this treatment. He merely re-
marked that he “had been doing no harm”
POPE JOHN HOP CHAPMAN BLESSING
THE CITY TRAFFIC.
If there was a position outside of the minister s
that he would covet for the exercise of his gifts, it
was the lot of the policeman.— Dr. Chapman, at the
Y.M.C.A. rooms.
—and returned to the house and his lady
love some more. Twice the considerate hus-
band booted him out again, but when he got
up next morning he found the persistent one
asleep on the kitchen settee. Many a man,
finding his enemy buried in slumber, would
have hastily dropped the whole contents of
the coal-scuttle on his stomach, and hit him
hard on the feet with the fire-irons, but
plaintiff forebore. Anyhow, he got his
divorce.
BEFORE—AND AFTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Labor, as Mr. Watt put it, is a party of dreamers.
Its dreams are tlie visions of bad patriots and pur-
blind fanatics ; we might say of fools.
—Age leader, on Labor proposals.
That is the forecast of a new piece of Labor
Socialism. Looking at the history of our Melbourne
Gas Monopoly, we cease to wonder, and can scarcely
deny approval.— Same column, a few issues later, on
iitto.
The Great Man o’er his screed was bent—
A swart imposing mass
That loomed like some huge monument
Beneath the midnight gas.
Grim silence brooded o’er his den;
He poised within his hand
That stern, blunt leader-writing pen,
Far-famed throughout the land.
“The schemes of Labor —so think we,”
He wrote—“are Froth and Scum ;
Blind visions, such as drunkards see
In their delir-i-um ;
“While those who propagate such Trash—
Fanaticism’s tools!
We damn as Dreamers, —(comma, dash),
And —might we add —as Fools.
“For instance: take their scheming, planned
Monopolies to kill”—
He paused, for suddenly at hand
His eye fell on a bill.
Three little dials graced its head ;
His veins swelled as he read it;
“To gas consumed”—it said. He said —
Well, never mind, he said it.
“We find”—again the mighty pen
O’er virgin sheet did move—
“We find, these schemes of Labor men
We (almost) can approve!
“A bit too novel for the mass;
Too prone (we fear) to blunder ;
And yet—when we look into Gas —
WE (nearly) cease to wonder!”
Thus on and on his pen he plied
In screed as mild as daisies ;
His ramping ire ’gainst Labor died
In milk-and-water praises.
Great leader-writers! Mark this tale,
And learn its lesson mystic ;
Far weightier than the gibes you hail
On projects Socialistic,
In canine Latin limps this gem
Of morals (spare to mock it) :
“No argument ad hominem
Beats argument ad pocket!!”
VICTORIA.
GUINEA-A-THOUSAND.


I
0
WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure?
M Those common soaps that
I do as much injury as cleans-
% tng are never tolerated where
Sunlight Soap has once
1 been tried.
tere ,
jA
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
WHEN YOU ARE KEPT AWAKE
at night with that troublesome Cough, remember that
it can be speedily removed by Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. Price, 1/6 and 3/- per bottle.*
Wilds Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
che proper place to go if you want the best "of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest- American style. Hours 6f business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
■
THE NEW COAT SHIRT
(Buttons Right Down the Front)
enables the wearer to put it on and take it off with the same
ease as a coat.
It has the further advantage of being cut close to the figure,
a feature which will make it ponular with those who desire the
maximum of comfort and sightliness in smart shirt wear.
This garment is made in Cambridge Cloth, a solid cotton
material of medium weight, and comes in light and dark
grounds, with neat designs and contrasting stripes.
8/6 each.
Add 9d. for Postage.
3 for 24j
Add 1/- for Postage.
Please state Measurement of Chest when ordering:.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309=11 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Whenever a Maorilander sees the scare-
heading, “Foxton Again,” on the news-bills
he knows that this most combustible of
towns has been burned down once more. It
has no apparatus whatever for extinguishing
nres, and a large section of the inhabitants
appear to go about _ their daily toil with
conflagration-sticks, kindling wood, matches,
petroleum, etc., in their possession. The other
day the place was ravaged by the flame-
hend (for the second time within six weeks),
and a local paper, after detailing the dam-
age, and remarking that: —
At time of going to pr s ess a, considerable portion of
the town (including the' Presbyterian Church) was
in jeopardy.
said naively:—
There is no fire brigade at Foxton, and no water
supply, and, as On the occasion of the previous fire,
there was little or no check on the spread of the con-
flagration, though efforts were made by willing volun-
teers to tear down fences, dividing ivalls, and other
combustible structures which were likely to assist
the progress of the fire.
Come, to think of it, there is something ap-
propriate about this practice of tearing down
the. houses to save the town, in a country
which has elected to depend'for its national
defence on a squadron that will be’ stationed
most of its time in China, t
THE DE VII.!
“How did yon imagine such a
hideous creature as the Devil in your
picture? ” ,
“Got a chum of mine who was married last
week to describe his mother-in-law."
A HOLY CALM.
The Peace party is heart and soul with the sports’ authorities, who are protesting that the military
system should be modified, to allow of larger popular indulgence in athletics.— Unreliable authority.
MAN OF PEACE: "Ah , that is much better! Peace on earth, goodwill to men.”
The cable informs us that a society couple
of Kansas City (U.S.A.) were married in
a balloon on July 26. There was great ap-
plause when the balloon returned to earth.
And what’s in this that’s really new,
And what of special worth?
We also married, I and you,
Up in the sweet, ethereal blue—
And : then returned to earth !
victoria. S. S.
On the fourth Aus-
tralian voyage of the
training ship Mersey to
London, an operation
for appendicitis was per-
formed by the surgeon
while the, ship was
rounding Ca p e Horn.
The father of all blows
blew his darnedest, and
David Jones hovered
horribly on his Welsh
feet along the horizon.
The patient was a cadet.
The master and captain
were appointed to assist
the surgeon, whilst a
cadet held the tray of
surgical _ instruments. At
the critical moment the
cadet holding the tray
fainted, _ but the captain
sprang in and just man-
aged ,to prevent the
who. l; e outfit being
spilled, which mig h t
have caused serious de-
lay, for the vessel was
standing on its ear, and
the goods would have
fled to the 400 winds.
The operation was a suc-
cess, and the' patient
lives to boast that he is the
first human being to lose
his appendix only while
rounding the Horn.
Lots of people have lost their appendices
there before, but they lost themselves also.
* * * *
The ketch Candidate, now definitely
posted missing, had about the most crowded
week of its life 18 years ago. There had
been a big blow from the east, and moun-
tainous seas were tumbling over the Port
Macquarie bar. The Candidate arrived, but
was debarred from doing the crossing act
by the standoff signals which were flying
at the Pilot Station. For three days the
little craft leaped impatiently on the water,
and then in desperation the skipper decided
to make his dash. It was a fatal resolve.
Half-way across the bar a mighty sea smote
the Candidate in the midriff, and it
broached-to. Before it had time to right it-
self another mass of water happened along
and capsized it. All hands were drowned.
During the afternoon the hull was washed
up on the beach, and soon the little craft
was afloat and earning its marine crust
again.
* * * *
Had that U.S. railway expert who lately
told the Victorians that their railway sys-
tem would be vastly improved if it were
handed over to the tender mercies of Private
Enterprise been up at Deniliquin (N.S.WD
lately he might have altered his opinions
somewhat. On July 31 a special train was
run over the privately-owned Deniliquin
line for the races, the fare for 231 miles
be ? g J^ S A7 7 • per ' mile! ' The Victorian
and N.fe.W. Railway Commissioners can
run race specials at Id. per mile and make
them pay, so private ownership and manage-
ment are evidently advantageous— to some-
one.
“10-2-4” muses:—
“Citizens, help me to keep your city clean ; do' not
throw papers or tram tickets about. If yoil do you
will be prosecuted.” , Thus Mayor Clarke, of Sydney,
on a thousand garish hoardings. And I, being anxious
to add to the sum of human happiness—though no
Mayor, and, please God, never likely to become one-
herewith deliver my little message, or counsel, of
perfection,, as follows: “Women, assist to keep your
reputations and those of your admirers untarnished.
Do not leave love-letters or other sentimental garbage
about! If you do you will be chucked.” -I am in-
spired to the above by a study of “The Spiritualist’s
Divorce Case,” which was in progress in London
when. the last mails left. There are two co-respond-
ents in this suit, which is being brought by Captain
Colley (a son of the well-known Archdeacon)
against his wife, Sophia. One is a Pierrot or beach-
singer or nigger minstrel; the other, the Hon. Eric
Upton, son and heir of. Lord Templetown. The only
evidence against Upton is a collection of torrid
letters, written by him to the respondent when he
was 22 —which is upwards of five years ago. Since
then he doesn’t appear to have seen the lady, while
she has reached the age of 35, and taken to veronal
and nigger-minstrels and other undesirable things—-
that is, unless the witnesses for the other side are a
most malignant and unabashed collection of liars.
Yet. Upton is. haled to court, and if the jury finds
against the Pierrot, it will almost certainly throw in
a verdict against him on general principles,- as it
were. What a freakish stroke of ill-luck ! The un-
happy youth has completely got over, his infatuation.
When he looks at his one-time idol’s fading charms
he asks himself, in a bewildered fashion, one may be
sure, what the blazes he ever saw in them or her to
make such a disturbance about. The thought of
having for a rival a person who habitually makes a
public ass of himself in a grotesque costume on a
beach, would be calculated to fill his soul with re-
vulsion, assuming it is the normal variety of soul.
Probably he is now fond of someone else. ■ And —
bitterest reflection of all! ; —the whole unpleasant-
ness might have been averted had the lady had the
horse-sense to destroy his blithersome effusions any
time in the previous five years. It is a tragedy for
Upton, for the respondent, and for the burnt-cork
artist alike. I hereby offer the theme to my friend,
Arthur Adams, to. Bilanderson, and to the man
Bailey. Let them write dramas round it in their
several styles. All I stipulate is that the central
figure shall be a lady who did not destroy the-letters
of her worshippers, and who consequently gets turned
down by each and every one of them in the last act
by way of encouraging others of her deplorable type.
“D.”: The cabled message that the crew
of the Success—the Victorian prison hulk
which didn’t bring convicts to Australia —
have struck work, or declined to go below
or something, on the grounds that their
floating home is “haunted,” suggests nothing
more to me than the fact that the deplorable
old craft is nearing those regions where ad-
vertising has been raised to a fine art. From
now onwards the Yankee press-agent of the
Success may be confidently expected to sup-
ply the papers, cable-agencies, etc., with a
long string of items of the sort that thrill
people and keep their interest in a show
alive. The Success will doubtless be burgled
a few times; attempts will be made to sink
it by maddened Australian aristocrats whose
progenitors led a life of shame in its in-
nards ; tremendous offers will be made for
it by rival showmen —which offers will be
scornfully turned down by the present own-
ers. In fact, the vessel will be exploited
after the fashion of a fading beauty-actress.
And all the time it will go on being a dull,
hideous little craft, whose reputation for
gore and horror is almost entirely bogus.
The S. M. Herald —the wonderful paper
which lately published a leading article
about how Cook discovered Australia after
everybody else had missed it —did another
historical outbreak on August 6 in its news
from Vila:—
July 14, commemorating for all time the fall of
the Bastille and the proclamation of the French Re-
public, after the capitulation at Sedan on September
4, 1870, when this form of government by the
people was established in France, was celebrated
with great rejoicings at Vila.
The date of the fall of the Bastille is only
81 years out, the Herald having appar-
ently mixed up the Third Republic with the
First. One wonders if there is anywhere on
earth another paper of the Herald’s ton-
nage, of anything resembling the Herald’s
tonnage, which is so guiltless of simple his-
torical information.
Melbourne Age publishes a gruesome
article on murderers, etc., who have danced
on air in Melbourne gaol. Among the
plaster casts in the Governor’s office is a
head labelled “Jones.” He was the execu-
tioner who cut his throat because he was
called upon to hang Melville, the convict
who led the Williamstown rising which re-
sulted in the death of Price. The gap in
the throat is reproduced in the cast, which
seems like bad sub-editing. Ned Kelly is
described as having “a broad forehead and
fine-set eyes,” and a good word is said for
Deeming, the numerous slayer, who used to
leave his late cemented relative beneath the
domestic hearth. “Deeming’s was a re-
markable head and face,” says the article.
ihe forehead broad, the features wonder-
fully regular, the nose Roman and finely
chiselled. Determination showed in every
line of his face; his lips, even in death,
were set. The mouth was cruel and wicked,
carved in thin, fine lines.”
* * *
A recent Sydney daily paper advt.:—
YNG. Man des. acq. yng. Woman, view Mat.:
one with some means pref. A.T., G.P.O.
When a young man is so poor that he has
to take these desperate measures to save 6d
on his advertisement his need to find a
young woman with means must be little
short of desperate.
POOR CHAPPIE.
THE POET: “Alas! The public laughs at
everything I write."
THE H UMORIST: "Great Scot! I wish I had
your luck."
“Melb ” writes :
The National Government is preparing to erect
postal stores at the corner of Bourke and Spencer
streets, Melbourne, to relieve the congestion on the
General Post Office. If the plans, which are still
being considered, are adopted, the basement will sup-
port a three-storey main building, which will bear
two more storeys. . There is also a seVen-storeved
warehouse at the rear. The present occupiers of the
site don’t give up till September. Home Minister
O’Malley and Postmaster-Gen. Frazer sav there is
likely to be a tunnel from the G.P.O.—half a mile —
to the new building, and thence to Spencer-street
railway, so that mails can be sent by electric trans-
mission. The whole cost will be £70,000. The next
job will be a substantial edifice, continuing the
General Post Office to the corner of Elizabeth and
Little Bourke streets, doing away with the present
ramshackle telegraph office, which is a sort of insane
dog-kennel.
THE WAIL OF WILLY WATT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1‘ orty thousand immigrants are coming o’er the sea:
I’ve got to dump them gently on the land.
But of acres, wet or dry,
There’s a limited supply—
Not half enough to equal the demand.
The question facing me,
As I look beyond the sea,
—How about those Immigrants who settled ought
to be
On the many empty spaces,
In the alienated places,
■Which the grabbers hope to barter for excessive
£ s. d.
Forty thousand Immigrants, all armed with spade
and hoe—-
What a goodly show!
Where are they to go?
Will anybody tell me of some soil he has to sell
me ?
My Ministers repel me
• With, “I don’t know.”
Forty thousand Immigrants invited to obtain
The acres I would willingly bestow,
. If I had ’em, dry or wet,
But I notice with regret
That niy stock of land is running very low.
My heart is fdll of pain
As I gaze across the main ;
Tracts of hilly forest and of barren plain
Are submitted under offers,
But the Governmental coffers
Which sharks would take a pull at are not equal
to the strain.
Forty thousand Immigrants are imminent to-day ;
Some are on their way.
Where are they to stay?
Land is wanted in a hurry. When I mention it
to Murray,
He replies: “You shouldn’t worry,
For I can’t say.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


ROCHESTER, Thursday.—ln connec-
tion with the possibility of making the
raising of hogs a payable pursuit on
our new settlements, Mr. Elwood Mead
states that he will take the matter up
during his coming visit to America.
PORTLAND (N.S.W.), Thursday.—
The increase in thfe price of provisions,
particularly in meat and butter, has
brought a protest from members of-the
Labor unions and of the Political Labor
League. They have pledged themselves
to abstain from eating meat until prices
are considerably reduced.
f * Sfric-i"
Ijv ion
/ftNi
s:~ o
fa EI wood —
*OW dont'”vtforVy a>OW+' I|o£ S
When you "fc M r Mefcd
\rteve So+"'faenty \,
Con$ u roer^
Smte reduction m
-tKe. °f %*? se,v5 e,v i’' 115 .
(
Cenf /^P^\
)• - you tloormn
Knife yowVc e-ajTn se»r> w, * f *
ase+er car s«SV J e e
*UKr s- ggSJS- «?*;;
Sjt?
day,
* It was merely an ac;i-
-' dent that he had not
become an ofiicer in the
Army.
'TVawj
iow<=> «5p
vfillie.
Tk*-
]}»r«otor’ — oj- mtrje, Well done
,
I
V .-o '» V> > e ' \|
JI
'Y»"*>V A
\ «*#,
a— rn/S ?riroe g
/Jw2>c[ S re»*>ember , j£
you s«a J
-fC c -fanny side °b \
s£& Egga-'
,£-• Vi ctor 12), (Veas.liS"'’^
ViUie wqVT W*t>e«o-.
rccolleerilnj^ na
"AVi it- "he h^ d only e,r > '
Wtd' , «f > rwOMU
1l&/e me •
Th* keen
Tye Mfi'b
Council J'f 1
O'fev l>l ili
To Kee[> do wy) JR
WUlw/, ///- // ' V/fl y.
/f c 4^^* j
'll!' kb>W >CIV^r f .
/I K -
Uj Ob our Alder- \>
*rr> *s«. <fV
eW) S £
v/ould noa.Kft
rsJteKc,. ✓
VICTORIAN EVENTS.


NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Do You Know
that the evolution in
Brooches has produced
long- brooches of rare
artistic beauty ?
Some of them are S inches
long, and have super-
seded the circle brooches
of some time ago.
1 Choice Whole Pearl and Selected Diamonds and 15ct. Brooch,
3 inches long, £25.
Tourmaline Centre, with Selected Pearls, same design, £6.
Most elegant, graceful and smart in appearance, they are of many charming designs, and we make them
upon the premises.
The designs reach us by every mail, and so London’s last word in styles is produced bv artistic workmen.
Prices, too, are quite as low as in London, because of there being no intermediate profits.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
1 PLAIN FIGURES—CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET’
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
‘‘Silas Snell”: The components of Mnl-
ehayey’s funeral, barring the corpse, of course, were
returning from the burying, the widow Mulchayey
in the van. Mrs. Mulehayey’s son Tim was driving
the spring-dray, and the other chief mourner sat
beside him, a bunch of crepe. There was a man sit-
ting patiently on Hibrow’s fence. This was Paddy
Clarke, himself a widower these many months. When
the spring-dray, containing the plump new widow,
was almost “forninst” him, Clarke came slowly
down, and sauntered to the middle of the road. He
stopped Tim’s horse, and with his hand on the rein
addressed Mrs. Mulchayey. “Well, ma’am, ’tis all
over wid Dan now, God rest him!” said he, “V a
man may shpeak. - ’ Will ye have me?” The widow
sat up, her pleasant face flushed crimson. “’N’ how
dar yeh, Andy Clarke,” said she; “how dar’ yeh ad-
dress thim yords t’ me,.;’n’ himself shtill warrm
in his grave? ’Tis better ashamed yeh orter. be”—
the widow drew a handkerchief, and her tears, flowed
—“better ashamed, Andy Clarke, ’n’ niver will I
forgive yeh, niver. Yer too late, annyway. Didn’t
Clary Hogan perpose fer me hand in the ceming-
try ?”
THE WINDED ATHLETE.
CAPTAIN OF THE RAGGED PANTS FOOTBALL
TEAM: “I ain't leavin' this nark behind
as I orter. I'll have to give up smokin' .”
“P.H.” : You are by no means the first to
discover the healthfulness of that part of Australia
which the white man is alleged to be unable to in-
habit. Sir George Grey, in his “Australian Expedi-
tions, 1837-38,” says: ■ “I conceive the climate of
north-western Australia to be one of the finest in
the world, and my reasons for thus thinking are
grounded on the following circumstances: I was resi-
dent there from the beginning of the month of De-
cember, 1837, to the middle of April, 1838—a
period of four months and a half —and during the
whole of this time the men under my command were
exposed to great hardships and privations. On one
occasion three of us slept in the open air, without
any covering or warm clothes, for five successive
nights, during three of which we had constant
showers of heavy rain, and yet did not suffer from
the exposure Whilst this perfect freedom from
disease existed among the party, they had not only
to bear exposure of the nature above-stated, but the
provisions with which I was enabled to supply them
were sometimes very insufficient for their wants.”
Grey, himself, during most of the time was suffering
severely from a spear wound in the hip.
“Hullo”: The latest news from the Gar-
den of Eden is that it was situated on the Upper
Euphrates, between Anah and Hitt. According' to
William Willeocks, who lectured to the Royal Geo-
graphical Society (London), on his scheme for the
restoration of Eden, the first botanical gardens were
situated near an outcrop of hard rock, upstream of
Hitt, where the water could be led off from above
a rapid, and utilised for irrigation. So Mildura and
Yanko are but late imitations of the original Eden.
But not having the sense to build a Burrinjuck dam,
the first settlers had to vacate, because the wearing
down of the cataracts deprived them of the waters
that had irrigated their selection. They travelled
eastwards, and could see nothing behind them but
the bitumen springs on the east of Eden, which
seemed to them like flaming swords in the hands of
offended Seraphim. If the first settlers had only-
built a Burrinjuck we would have been there yet,
and a few little things like the Roman Empire,
Roosevelt, the graduated land-tax, State Frights,
the battle of Hastings, the cricket tests, Jack John-
son, Captain Cook and gas bills would never have
troubled us.
“Move-on”: Have carefully noted “Tia-
ki’s” tips (B. 11/7/’l2) for dragging a drink out
of tree stumps, vines, etc., if he is doing a perish in
the Maoriland ranges. Now, I wish he’d give us
some dodges for getting away from the wet, as I'd
consider that a lot more useful. My trouble never
was to find water. Mostly I'd only to open my
mouth and hold it up to Heaven, and let the rain
fall in, or pick up a lump of Maoriland and
squeeze the water out. I have a theory that M.L.
is a big sponge, otherwise I don’t see how it could
absorb all the wet it captures. But I’ll remember
“Tiaki’s” advice in case I’m ever stranded on a rock
mountain and all the pubs are closed. He might
have mentioned that the perishing bushman is safe
if he can only struggle through to a “dry” no-
license district. All he will require there is a cork-
screw. Evidently the M.L. authorities recognise the
prevailing dampness of the climate, as I’ve seen a
printed notice posted in the window of a village
post office, headed in large caps. “LOSE NO TIME,”
and then giving, in careful detail, the latest approved
methods for the Restoration of the Apparently
Drowned. The sea was many miles away, and there
wasn’t a river within miles of the map. But as it
was a country district, the Government folk may
have been indulging in a bitter jest at the state of
the roads round there. Unless they station lifeboats
and full rocket and life-saving apparatus every few
miles of road, there is little hope of the bodies being
recovered from the roadways’ raging billows to give
the chance of practising the Restore-the-Drowned
advice.
“E.W.0.” : Was travelling on the N.S.W.
Southern line recently with a newly-arrived “Jimmy
Grant.” Just after dawn the train passed a paddock
of dead, ring-barked timber. The new-chum jumped
to his feet in dismay. “Crikey!” he howled, “have
all those trees been
struck by lightning?”
This part (Moombool-
dool) is thick with
the tweed-cappers, and
the mistakes they in-
vent keep the country-
side from ever feeling
dull. One of them,
after being with a
farmer for four
months, was told to
placd the collar on a
horse. He balanced it
carefully on the aston-
ished’s beast’s rump,
stood off to admire the
effect, and left it
there. Two others
were told to take a
horse out of a sulky.
They started by tak-
ing the winkers off;
whereupon the horse
took fright and bolted.
The sulky was later
used for kindling. An-
other one, engaged
carting water, neglect-
ed to buckle the belly-
band. When he had
the tank full he start-
ed to climb in at the
back. The subsequent
proceedings may be
detailed as follows:
(1) Cart tipped; (2)
water washed immi-
grant out of cart; (3)
tank fell on him; (4)
indignant horse bolt-
ed; (5) cart smashed
against a tree; (6)
horse galloped on to-
wards sunset; (7)
owner went mad, and
invented 15 new oaths.
General impression about here is that the secret of
England’s greatness is that it manages to get rid of
the people it doesn’t want.
“Searchlight”: The tallewong, or black
magpie, is one of the nine and sixty curses told off to
keep the Dorrigo (N.S.W.) selector struggling. In
the season when the inkweed or dyeberry is seeding,
this harsh-voiced air larrikin darts round with the
push, devouring the ripe berries and carrying the
seed into the scrub, where it lies dormant until the
selector has cleared the way for cultivation with axe
and firestick. The crop is put in, the rain falls, and
the expectant farmer leans his whiskers on the top
rail, and waits- for the crop to rise and sway before
him like a green corps de ballet. And in due course
the harrowed bosom of Ma Earth does the trick, and
lo! it is all inkweed as far as the eye can see! Then
the selector sits him down on a charred niggerhead,
and earnestly requests Providence to strike him in
divers ways. But his fury gradually dies out as
he notices how the black magpie’s crop is shooting
towards the sky, and feels that he will be lost unless
he sets to work and tears it out. Which, of course
he does, being the most patient animal on two legs.
Doubtless the tallewong is a work of Providence.
But wlmt I want to know is: Why did Providence
make it? It looks suspiciously like rotten manage-
ment or downright malignity to put a struggling
armer and a bird like that on the same planet. You
see, they waste so much of each other’s time.
TAKING SAMPLES.
MRS. DAWKINS (sampling the goods freely): “ An' wot ’ave yer got under them dags?”
DISGUSTED HAWKER: “Pumpkins."
HIS M ATE: “ Don't be mean, Bill.
Give the lydy one to taste.”
“Mallarapoonie”: The stock-inspector in
Western Queensland has to be a person of judicial
mind, and possess discernment of no blunt order.
The season wasn’t good, and news had drifted in to
Inspector Blank, at Dashville, that Hyphen, whose
brand was JIJ, and Asterisk, owner of the YIT
ranch, were pirating Mitchell grass on the mile-wide
stock route, which crosses the great rolling downs
that spread away into the sunset. Pull of official
wrath, and determined to see justice done between
the genuine, all-wool drovers, who only, by law,
were entitled; to graze the narrow strip, and the
grass pirates who lined the way, Blank arrived on
the scene of the alleged bushranging operations along
with the dawn and the first chirp of peewits on the
plains. Now, an illicit understanding had been
arrived at between Asterisk and Hyphen, whereby
they agreed- to graze the stock route week and week
about; and, on the morning when Blank lit on the
landscape, it was Hyphen’s day out. With the rising
of daylight Blank observed, with official satisfaction
and some inward speculation on a duty to be well
performed, that the surrounding aspect was full of
sheep—grazing contentedly on the right-of-way and
moving like a big army amid the Mitchell grass.
Prom afar off Blank sighted a horseman lounging in
the saddle, and approached. He inquired whose
sheep these were, and the lean, casual keeper of
stock replied languidly that he wasn’t sure —per-
sumed they belonged ter that blighter, Asterisk, who
made a point of eatin’ out ther stock route,, which
was er blanky shame, an’ oughter be reported ter th’
inspector. Blank rode on; and all the way was as
full of sheep as his mind was of seeing justice done.
A mile along he met more mounted shepherds, loung-
ing where the stock had passed. Inquiries elicited
the comments that Asterisk was the one darned pirate
of the plains; that he deserved to be grabbed, and,
in addition, should have his feet stamped on; and
that it wasn’t the square thing, anyway, to eat out
the route to the detriment of travelling stock. ‘‘Well,
what are you doing here, anyhow?” asked Blank,
with some annoyance. “Oh, us?” was the non-
chalant reply. “We’re just enjoying the scenery and
havin’ a quiet smoke. Terrible nice mornin’, ain’t it,
sir?” Blank rode on some more, and in his heart
was a great anticipation of a summons soon to issue.
He had gone some distance across the plain, when
whom should he meet but Hyphen, driving out with
a spanking pair to see how his jumbucks fared. Not
in the least taken aback by the unexpected presence of
the inspector, Hyphen reined up and entered into a
bitter condemnation of his neighbor, Asterisk, whom
he apostrophised in most convincing terms, alleging
him, among other things, to be the Captain Kidd of
the western prairie. A quaint light of humor broke
over the inspector’s face. “Do you believe in coinci-
dences, Mr. Hyphen?” he asked. “Well, no,” re-
plied Hyphen, without suspicion, “I haven’t much
faith in the happening of things. Why?” “Be-
cause,” said Blank, preparing to ride on, “all the
horses I have passed this morning are, like the pair
you’re driving, branded JIJ on the near shoulder.”
“Monkbarns” : In the N.S.W. State papers,
about the year 1846, the mystery is cleared up of
the tradition of a white woman held in captivity by
Gippsland blacks. It proved to be the figurehead of
a wrecked ship, named the Britannia. The blacks
who gave the information did not make it clear that
they only meant an image or idol. It seems to have
been worshipped like the empty beer bottles found
by a traveller in a Tibetan temple. There were two
expeditions after the supposed Gippsland white
woman. Doubtless everybody was not satisfied as
to there having been no woman. Several tale-
writers wrought up the yarn. In the dusty archives
of the Melbourne Public Library a MSS. tale on the
subject has just been found, called “The Heart,”
written by Bussell, the surveyor, who assisted Hoddle
to lay out Melbourne. Henry Gyles Turner, of the
Commercial Burst of Australia, also wrote a romance
on the subject in 1857. It was published in a Mel-
bourne magazine, called the Journal op Austral-
asia. A little white boy was stolen by the blacks at
Portland, Victoria, and reported to be seen with
them in after-time.
“N. or M.”: As “The Snake” is turning
his attention to queer epitaphs (B. 11/7/’ 12), I sub-
mit the following aberration which I have seen on a
child’s grave in an old Hobart cemetery. The lines,
I am told, appeared more than once on early tomb-
stones, and though they never attained the popu-
larity of “Affliction sore long time he bore,” they
became sufficiently standardised to be used as a
writing exercise in children’s copy-books:—
O, lovely appearance of death!
What thing upon earth so fair?
Not all the gay pageants that breathe
Can with a dead body compare !
The-, following warm valedictory remarks are not
exactly an epitaph. Do not know if they were ori-
ginal. They were scribbled on the side of a cave
•by a Van Diemen’s Land “Government man,” who
had suffered under a hard. mistress-
When the Children of Israel wanted food
God sent them manna,
When William Blank wanted a wife
The Devil sent him Hannah.
The little, overgrown, penguin-riddled “Island of the
Dead” at Port Arthur has one epitaph of unusual
pathos. Most of the graves of the prisoners are un-
marked by word or stone, but one carries the verse:
“He hath died in the place whither they led him
captive, and he shall see the land no more.”
OUR CLIMATE.
SYDNEY VISITOR: “By Gosh , if it's like this
in time of drought what will it be in the
rainy season?”
“Vagabond” : All that “Tamumu” says of
the lotus-eating gum-digger of Maoriland (B.
25/7/’l2) is true, but he doesn’t make any mention
of another class of worker who is rapidly excavating:
the ground from under the boot soles of the Eat-
drink-and-be-merry-for-to-morrow-we-dig (-if-we-feel-
like-it) crowd. Hordes of Austrians are acquiring-
web feet and fat wallets in the gum swamps, and
there isn’t any of the dolce far niente about them
• —they wouldn’t know it if it lived in the same
humpy. They don’t recognise the eight-hour day-
daylight to dark is good enough for them, only be-
cause they haven’t cats’ eyes and can’t work longer.
They go into the game with enthusiasm and the
most scientific methods they can command —pumps
and hydraulics and all the rest. And they’re not.
satisfied, as the old hands were, to grub out the big
lumps of gum and let the rest slide. You might go-
through a ton of the ground they’ve done with, and!
if you used a microscope you wouldn’t find gum
enough to moor a postage stamp- The old diggers
of the class “Tamumu” describes, resent the Aus-
trians a heap, and scorn them as brutes who want
to make money out of the game instead of being-
satisfied, like them, with a living and ’baccy and an.
occasional bust-up to celebrate striking a patch..
But while they stand round and hurl unpleasant op-
probrious remarks at the Austrians, the fiery Huns
keep on tearing the face off the earth and saying
nothing in their own language.
THE CHAMPION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The case was told in little time.
Complainant, quite a gentle soul,
"Was holding forth, in words sublime,
Against the ever-flowing bowl;
Was pointing out
That rum and stout
Induce a corrugated snout.
Defendant, from the gathered crowd,
Had hit the speaker where he stood
With language venomous and loud,
And then had hurled a block of wood ;
Which, blacked an eye,
And broke his tie,
And left;,his neck turned all a-wry.
Accused, a wise, bibacious bloke,
Whose cheek betrayed the brewer’s blight,
In melancholy accents spoke:
“I on’.v served the beggar right,
As would be clear
If you could hear
The way he was abusin’ beer.”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


h
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
ENGLISH CHOLERA CURED.
“Recently a customer of mine called in to purchase
some goods, and was violently attacked with English
Cholera,” writes L. M. Morrin, Otahuhu, N.Z. “I
induced him to take a dose of Chamberlain’s Colic
and Diarrhoea Remedy, which immediately effected
a cure. I might add that on numerous occasions I
have used Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy
this way, and it has had marvellous effects on the
sufferers.”*
If You Want a GOOD INK,
Try CALDWELL’S
WE GUARANTEE YOU WILL USE
NO OTHER AFTERWARDS.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
THE TROUBLES OF DIGESTION, pain, flatu-
lence, acidity and so on, are happily in most cases
simply the expression of some fleeting disturbance
of function. The best way to restore tone and regu-
larity to the intestinal tract is by taking a wine-
glassful of “HUNYADI JANOS” natural aperient
water the first thing in the morning every second
or third day.*
¥
FOGGITT,JOKES
HAM PATE
“Reka”: In reply to a query by “Tiaki”
(B. 28/5/’l2), I would say that I have a few items
of knowledge about stingarees, and a tremendous re-
spect for the kite-shaped denizen of the sea. The
last one I met broke up a cheerful fishing excursion
in one act. We left Rakino Island for a day’s sport,
anchored the launeh in a likely spot, and prepared to
enjoy ourselves. The lines were hardly out when
somebody in the dinghy hooked something. It was
big and weighty, and no amount of hauling made
any impression on it. In the midst of the oceanic
disturbance occasioned by the capture, everybody
else caught something simultaneously. We hung on
desperately to the dozen lines out until the captain
announced that the propeller was being strangled,
and ordered all lines overboard. Reluctantly we
threw them into the deep (we were fishing without
sinkers), and waited the landing of an octopus or a
10-foot shark. Up the thing came —a big stingaree,
with all the lines attached to it and tied into a huge,
unholy knot. The creature was promptly despatched
with the boat-hook and the tail annexed as a souve-
nir, but some hours elapsed before the tedious work
of separating the lines and freeing the propeller was
through. This stingaree had only a two-foot tail.
Some old warriors have a weapon quite four feet in
length. The tail can inflict a painful and dangerous
injury. Know an Aucklander who chanced to step
on a stingaree when wading out to his launch, and
received a severe blow from the insulted one’s ex-
tremity. It swished round his ankle and was re-
moved with difficulty. The leg, poisoned as well as
lacerated badly, took months to heal, and a con-
tracted sinew to this day bears witness to the force
of the blow. The Maoris eat the stingaree on
occasion, and the flesh is described as very white,
with a strong peculiar flavor. The Maoris also eat
dried shark, toadstools, fungus and ancient shellfish —
all of which the white man regards as death-dealing
—and suffer no injury thereby. In fact, the Maori is
an eater of great magnitude. >
PUTTING ON DOG.
GINGER (loftily): “Try an make yer dial as
blarsay as yer can, Soo. There's a couple
of them there sickenin’ pleebians!”
“Cellu Loid”: We keep on assisting our
immigrants in this district. About a week ago one
of them was entrusted with a horse and dray, and
sent for a load of wood. There were only about
three trees to the acre, but he managed to" get the
cart wheel jammed up against one of them. This
was at 9 a.m. They found him at 3 p.m. the same
day. The old horse was in a deep sleep, and the
bright pink Anglo-Saxon was wildly endeavoring to
dig the tree out with a mattock. Had he done so,
which might have happened if his British pluck had
held out for (say) five weeks, the horse—if still alive
—would have certainly been broken in two by the
falling trunk. The intelligent animal (I refer to the
horse) woke up with a start when the boss spoke,
and easily backed the cart off, while the imported
turnip mopped his brow and cried in a voice of
astonishment, “Whoi, Oi never thought o’ that!”
Can you tell me what these importations do think
of? Is it the great traditions of the race, or what?
NOT PARTICULAR.
T RAMP: " Please, mum, can you give me some-
thing to eat?”
LADY: "No, and you'd better be off, for my
husband's a policeman , and if he saw
you he might take you."
TRAMP: “Well, yes—come to think of it — you're right , for when he took you he'd take
anything."
A manifesto. To the Cow Cocky Every-
where, Greeting! Thus Emma Eames de Graff (or
perhaps it is Graft), in the American Magazine for
June, i 912: “I have brought up five children. When
my last child was born every child was
looking eagerly for it, and it was the
topic of faihily conversation for months.
I think the farm is the only place where
one can live naturally. The farm, to my
mind, is the best place to bring up chil-
dren. It is, so far as I know, the only
profession where children become an asset
early, with equal advantage to themselves
and their parents. It is also the only
place where age is not made to feel its
decrepitude and its helplessness. There
is always something for grandmother and
grandfather to do on the farm.” Perhaps
the Australian cow farmers could import
the right-thinking Emma to do a bit of
lecturing for them. With effusions like
the above she might even induce the Gov-
ernment to loan out the children who are
eating their heads off in orphanages, etc.,
to minister to the cows of the unhappy
farmer whose wife has not proyided him
with a full team of free laborers.
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Wicked folk say that
the cow men of the Comboyne have a very feeble sense
of humor. I hold the opposite view. Recently I
camped for a week on the Comboyne, and found that
the following advertisement, nailed on the ricketty
post office, had completely convulsed the community:
PUBLIC NOTICE.
I, the undersigned, hereby give notice and warning
that I am prepared to
GIVE VIOLIN LESSONS
OR TO
EXTRACT TEETH
between milkings.
(Signed), H. WYRECART.
I tried to get a photo, but failed, owing to the wet
weather. It rained between the showers every day
of my stay.
The sundowner was a known quantity 80
years and odd ago, as may be gathered from the
following advertisement from the Sydney Gazette
of October 4, 1826: “Advertisement. Messrs. Berry
and Woolstonecraft, to obviate an apparently pre-
valent mistake, do hereby give notice that they have
not opened a public tavern at their dwelling at
Shoal-Haven, and further that they have no intention
for the present of making it a house of call for
cattle-jobbers, land-seekers or other authorised bush-
rangers.”
“B. de D.”: A growing terror has been
added to the life of the cow-cocky of Gippsland
(Vic.). In the Lang Lang, Heath Hill and Toora
districts great herds of deer are eating his crops.
They have already ravished the rape crop which had
been put in early for cow feed. There is no open
season for deer, which are the descendants of a few
couples liberated about 30 years ago. There are now
about 150,000 of the beasts in the State. The only
attempt made by the Government at keeping down
the numbers is to issue an occasional shooting permit
to aggrieved individuals. Deer drives with dogs are
allowed, but no shooting is permitted as a general
thing. You can drive deer 20 miles in a day, and
next day they will be back at the home station. No
fence will keep them out. The rabbit pest is said to
be a joke compared with this horned brute evil.
Cowmen in south-west Bananaland were in a similar
plight about 15 years ago. Queen Victoria, some
time in the ’6o’s, gave three red deer —two slatterns
and a disorderly gentleman—to the zoo; but as there
was no accommodation there for them, they were
turned loose in the Esk district. They increased
and multiplied and obliterated the earth. The
lamentations of the cow-cocky became loud in the
land; and the Government did something—what it
was I don’t remember. Lord Lamington, the Gov-
ernor, made the sagacious suggestion that the deer
should be caught alive and placed on islands in
Moreton Bay for select Government House parties to
stalk; but Bananaland didn’t like Lamington, and
didn’t see why it should spend its best years strug-
gling with big spiky animals for his gratification.
THE TIGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Apropos of the growth of the constitutional move-
ment in Hindustan, it may be safely asserted that
three-fourths of the natives of India, if presented
with free government to-morrow, would probablv
wish that the old regime had remained undisturbed.
—Conservat ve comment..
A Tiger, whose youth had been passed n a Zoo,
Grew up, in the fashion such animals do ;
He’d snatch at the morsels they pushed through his
bars,
He ne’er'eaught a glimpse of the dawn or the stars;
He blinked at the crowd like an indolent cat,
And cared not a curse if they jeered him or spat
On his paws, or his regal, magnificent head,
Air’d wondered whatever they meant when they said -
“A pity to cage such a beauty as he!
Oh, how he must long in his heart to be free!”
One day, as he travelled as part of a show,
The train that conveyed him was flung down below
The culvert ’twas crossing, and tiger and pen
Went hurtling with camels and ’gators and men :
The bars of his prison were wrenched, and the door
Flew open —and Freedom lay smiling before.
Our Tiger crept out, and sniffed at the breeze
That whispered of liberty, mountains and trees;
He caught a brief glimpse of the clouds and the
skies,
And gazed on the world with a startled surprise ;
Then thought of his tit-bits, his nest and his age,
And softly crawled back to the peace of his Cage.
The Moral? This Tale has no moral at all—
The Tiger is, maybe, a type of Bengal.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
Steamships and Statesmanship.
This is a letter from Maoriland: —
The passing of the Ward Government means a lot
to Maoriland, and among the items is this one —the
transference of the balance of power from the South
to the North, the humbling of Dunedin, and the
boosting-up of Wellington and Auckland. Ever since
the Provincial Governments were swallowed up in
one general Government, Dunedin has been boss
city in Maoriland politics, even though for a time
the seat of government was in Auckland, and is now
at Wellington. In Dunedin was born the steamship
company which now monopolises the coastal trade,
and almost monopolises the trade between Maoriland
and Australia. Few people realise how this concern,
through Dunedin’s political pull, has held back the
trunk railway construction in the lonely Island State.
When the Christchurch-Dunedin line was built only
as far south as Oamaru, there was a great trade
between that little port and Dunedin. And because
it had been promised the line from Central Otago, of
which it is the natural port, Oamaru began to lay
out thousands of pounds in a great breakwater and
harbor scheme. The trunk line dragged on to
Dunedin, and Oamaru dropped out of that trade, but
still, with her eyes on the mountains, she prepared
for the day when the commerce from the interior
should roll down to her quays. Dunedin, as it
proved, was too powerful. By taking the line
through fearful mountain gorges, where they daren’t
run a train by night, Oamaru was left out in the cold,
and is now in a bankrupt state as regards her harbor
finances.
Dunedin, Scotch and rapacious, went gaily on
building branch lines and loop lines —any kind of
line at all, so long as it fed Dunedin and the Union
boats. And then, when tney had built up an un-
profitable but enormous railway traffic, these high-
waymen held up the Treasury to.” a colossal railway
station, which cost £BO,OO0 —a fit coping-stone for
all their extravagance with money, which the virgin
lands of the North were crying out for. The North
Island main trunk line languished with 60 miles of
timber country between the rail-heads. Only bad
roads and pack-tracks led to them. Men who had
gone there because of the promised railway lost
money, then lost heart, and then threw up the sponge.
The roads and pack-tracks were a hell of misery in
the winter. They were strewn with the carcases and
bones of foundered horses —horses that were run in
from the wild mobs on the mountains, and worked
till they dropped. And all the while Seddon played
with the Makohine viaduct at the southern rail-
head, and managed to keep the North quiet. In the
South he urged on the Midland line, between Christ-
church and Greymouth, which can never injure the
Union Company, since it is always cheaper to carry
coal by sea than by mountain railway.
The North Island trunk line has been completed
and opened for four years. And the result? Such
a traffic as the South has never seen, because it is a
real, arterial railway clear through the heart of the
island. Towns are springing up where only log huts
stood. Night and day the mountains echo the loco-
motive whistles, for the service never ceases. And
vet this line, which should have been one of the
first, took 20 years to build! As a result of its
existence the Union Company had to withdraw two
passenger steamers, one on the east and one on the
west coast, and the loss in revenue is something like
£50,000 a year.
In face of this, as a business proposition, it is not
strange that the company used any power it had to
retard the competing railways. It is the short-
sightedness of these huge concerns which amazes one.
They want everything brought to one port, so as to
get rapid handling at a minimum cost. In the true
interests of the country and of the steamship tym-
panies, every nort should have its railway penetrating
into the interior, and the little boats should buzz
round the coast like prosperous bees. Then, when
the country’s revenue allowed, let the short lines be
linked together by interior trunk railways.
It is too late for Massey to remodel the system,
but it is up to him to try and give such ports as
Kawahia and Tauranga access to the fertile lands,
and to burst up the monopoly which the big ports
are beginning to enjoy.
- «
“Button-Stick” pedals into the fray: —
“Machete” casts tne war-bike into the outer dark-
ness, and he bases his arguments for its abounding
uselessness on his experience in S’th Af. with a pedal-
pusher corps. But it must be remembered that the
war there was fought ’way out in the baekblocks,
where made roads aren’t made, and aren’t roads. If
ever the Boy Scouts have to bathe their quarter-staffs
to the hilt in gore in Australia, the first performance
will take place round the coast somewhere, for this
place has heaped almost all its wealth on the coast,
and it simply can’t abandon it without a scrap. If
an enemy jumps with both boots on these shores, it is
probable he will choose a big city or something else
worth jumping for as the spot to get his hoof in.
If that comes off there will be plenty of good biking
roads for the wheel to work on, and, as the
probability is that the railways will be put out of
action by one side or t’other, the wheel may come in
handy for conveying despatches, scouting, and rapid
transport of troops. As “Machete” says, you can’t
charge a position on bike-back. But if you’re on
anything decent in the way of a road, and have a
decent bike, and two decent legs, and a horseman
charges your position, you can move that posi-
tion at about 12 to 20 mles.an hour (speed depend-
ing on the nearness of the horse and the cheerful
whistle of the bullets). Certainly, in rough country,
the bike seems to be a useless nuisance. I once met
a cycle corps on the veldt. Dunno if it was
“Machete’s” crowd, but, if so, I’d like to offer him
DEEP SINKING.
“By der vay, Izzy, I hear you’ve bought a
mine. Are you goin' to work it?”
‘No, ma tear. But I'm goin ’ to vork aer
public.”
my sympathy, and to ask him if he can tell me the
whereabouts of a long, duck-billed, red-headed private
who borrowed two of my saddle straps, when I wasn’t
looking, to attach a waterbottle and two murdered
chickens to his jigger. When I saw these bikists they
were wearily and dispiritedly pushing their crocks
over a plain that carried about 7000 tons of stones to
the acre. And, by the way, they had their steeds
loaded up with rifles, haversacks, waterbottles, can-
teens, and promiscuous poultry piled high on the
saddle, festooned from the handle-bars, wreathed
round the animal’s backbone, and draped down the
front forks. It was clear that the last thing on
earth they ever expected to use their mounts for was
to ride on ’em. At the same time, I can’t help won-
dering how it is that the perambulating shearer and
Outback traveller gets about on a wheel over all sorts
of country, with all his blanket and billy and other
household furniture hanging on to him or the moke.
And if he can do it, why can’t war-bikes?


AFTER THE SPREE.
The new Treasurer of Maoriland proposes to borrow a cotnparative, trife with which to carr y on works already, in hand; but he is of opinion that the b oom can't continue.
Thus does the hush pubiican eject his customer when his credit is exhausted, and start him back to work with "a bottle for the road to keep off jim -jams.


A GREAT LAW SUIT DECIDED.
The Supreme Court, the People, have decided that
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery wins against Coughs
and Colds. Price, 1/6 and 3/-.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
ĥ
For
QUALITY
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
LOOKED FOR BAD TISIE.
“Knowing my child was subject to croup, and
having been unsuccessful with so many things, I
looked for a bad time when I heard him bark one
night,’’ says Mr. F. M. Little, Park Street, North
Fitzroy (Vic.). “I gave him Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, and he slept till 10 o’clock, when I gave
him a double dose, and the result was wonderful. He
did not wake up again until two o’clock, and that
was all the trouble I had. The effect of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy in removing the phlegm is
wonderful.”*
Mabie, Todd and Co., 24 Bond Street, Sydney, have
been advised that the first, second and third places
in the World’s Shorthand Championship Contest, held
in London this year, were won by Messrs. R. J.
Garwood, W. McDougall and William F. Smart, all
of whom used the “Swan” Fountain Pen in the con-
test. Mr. Garwood has now won the World’s Short-
hand Championship Cup outright by his victories in
1910-11-12.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Politician Chesson (S.A.) talking on
the Government policy, likened Works Min-
ister Butler in three successive sentences to
the returned prodigal son, to a transmogri-
fied Jeremiah, and to Jonah escaped from the
wail. Butler, who once wept copiously on
all public occasions because of his loss of
the Premiership seven years ago, has chirped
like a perky sparrow ever since he got back
to office again with a decent majority be-
hind him.
HIS FIRST RURAL EXPERIENCE.
(a) The return of members into Parliament having
a practical knowledge of country interests and re-
quirements generally. —First objective of Farmers
and Settlers’ Ass.
A Melbourne lady writes about a recent
and bulky politician :
Margaret Baskerville is just completing the hulking
statue of the late Premier Tommy Bent. It is at
present only in clay, but the resemblance is excellent,
and one expects the wary old politician to lumber
down from his pedestal, and oblige with an archaic
song, and then tell how, in his youth, he often
carried two tons of vegetables along Brighton beach.
To see the little sculptress perched on a ladder, mould-
ing clay in her small hands, and rounding off her
work, makes one gasp first, and then smile. The
huge image is to be erected at the corner of KTepoan-
road and Bay-street, Brighton. A private view will
happen at Margaret’s studio, on August 19.
A certain member of the S.A. Assembly
sauntered into the Chamber the other day
and, after bowing gravely to the Speaker,
turned round and playfully “put his thumb
up to his nose and spread his fingers out”
in the direction of a friend in the gallery.
The cause of the pantomime was not ex-
plained.
Mrs. Sarah Wilshire, who died lately at
Strathfield (Sydney) in her 87th year, was
the widow of J. R. Wilshire, M.L.A. 1856-
57) and M.L.C. (1858 to his death in 1860).
He was the son of Deputy Commissioner
Wilshire of the early days, who married
Miss Pitt, of Windsor. J. R. Wilshire (who
died in 1860) married a daughter of James
Thompson, a draper who draped in King-
street in the ’3o’s, and later on warehoused
in Pitt-street, opposite Farmer’s. The De-
puty Commissioner resigned his billet and
commenced business as a tanner bn Brick-
field Hill, and the family tanned there until
1860. Central Police Court is partly built
on the tannery where the Wilshires tanned.
The recently-deceased lady kept to her
widowhood for 52 years. Her husband was
the second Mayor of Sydney.
Chesson, M.L.A., told the S.A. Parlia-
ment the other day that the poet Shelley
was drowned in the Bay of Bengal.
Mysterious communication under the
Hand and Seal of “A.B.”:—
It is darkly reported that the ever-aetive Percy
Hunter ambitions to succeed Tim Coghlan as Agent-
General of N. S. Wales. At present that mercurial
youth is abroad, toiling with his customary frantic
energy on behalf of his agonised State. As to the
precise form which his labors are taking, opinions
are mixed. Some say that he is behind the present
unrest in Mexico. Others believe he is engineering
the Turko-Italian war. Another section ascribes to
his machinations the deplorable domestic troubles
that have latterly been making the home life of the
Grand Llama utterly unsupportable. If the Llama
can be rendered really frantic, the beneficial effect,
from an Imperial standpoint, on the foreign policy of
Russia, becomes clear. But we shall know more when
this officer arrives with Jack Johnson. Ever notice
that no really high-class coon pugilist will adventure
to these parts unless Percy is on the steamer?
A smart answer turneth away ridicule.
Harry Atmore, member for Nelson in
Maoriland Parliament, was making an em-
phatic speech. “Behold the great I Am,” re-
marked Masseyite Rhodes in a large whis-
per. Some members sniggered, but Atmore
hurled a cold eye at the interjector. “I am
sorry,” he said, “that I cannot even call my
friend the great he was.”
“Galleryite”: It has just been revealed to
me that Bruce Smith is, like other men, a
little lower than the angels. Listen: —
Mr. Bruce Smith withdrew. The incident reminded
him of a little story of a sailor addressing a naval
officer. The former had told his superior that he
was not fit to throw guts to a bear. He was rebuked,
and by way of a withdrawal said the officer was fit
to throw guts to a bear. (Disorder.)
That bear-tripe history was the favorite
narrative of the late T. Bent, of Victoria,
and on one occasion it was the subject of a
discussion in the Cabinet. Bent’s colleagues
urged him not to recite it in all its crude-
ness at meetings where ladies were present.
Bent, to whom the tale of the officer and
the sailor and the bear and the innards re-
presented the highest form of literature,
reluctantly assented. He couldn’t under-
stand the general objection, but in a dazed
fashion he gave in. Sad to say, at his very
next meeting, his resolution failed him, and
in a glow of happiness he narrated his
literary gem about the bruin and the en-
trails.
At the Bank of Victoria meeting, last
week, the chairman referred to the absence
of Murray Smith, owing to indisposition.
Next to Butters, who was rallying
at latest dates from another criti-
cal illness, Murray Smith must be
about the oldest citizen of Mel-
bourne who has a conspicuous offi-
cial past. Butters was Mayor of
Melbourne when the present grey-
haired Havey was a boy
in knickers and some of
his drowsy brethren were
yet unborn. Murray
Smith was Agent-Gen-
eral for Victoria more
than 30 years ago. He
is a spare little figure of
strict respectability,
tough as leather, who
probably never thinks of
Labor Ministries without
a shudder. His indispo-
sition is probably due to
much brooding over the
decay of Conservatism in our midst.
“Melbourne” breasts the bar:—
Mrs. Menzies, senior, of the hotel, has just passed
away. Mr. and Mrs. Menzies (I think they used to
call themselves Menzie) came from England, in 1851,
by. the Cleopatra, which had a narrow shave from
being destroyed by fire. They perceived an opening
for an aristocratic hostel, and rushed it. The leading
caravanserai was then the Prince of Wales, long
disappeared. It stood in Flinders-lane, opposite
where the Cathedral is now, and was the boss house
for squatters, rivalled only by the Port Phillip Club,
in Flinders-street. This is still flourishing. Scott's
Hotel, Collins-street west, came much iater than
Menzies’ first one. Scott’s was developed from a
little drinltery named the Clarendon. Menzies found
his first pitch in a two-storey house built by Governor
Latrobe, in Latrobe-street. It is there yet. Here
the grand flavored character of Menzies’ Hotel was
established. The present placn. corner of Bourke
and AVilliam streets, cost £30,000.
TOLMIE, Minister of
Agriculture
(Queensland.)
“Galleryite” speaks:—
David Dickenson Wheeler, whose demise is men-
tioned (B. 8/8/’l2), was the inkiest of the inky.
He was practically reared on the sable fluid. His
father was a publisher of Oxford (England), and he
was trained as a book-printer. During 80 long years
he never got more than about five yards, figuratively
speaking, from what is known as “the roar of the
printing press.” He married inkily, espousing Jane
Willoughby (sister of Howard Willoughby, once edi-
tor of the Argus) ; and he brought up his family
on the ink bottle. One of his daughters, Miss Ada
Wheeler, is the fluff and tea-war correspondent of the
Melbourne Argus.
Lord Liverpool, who is to take Islington’s
place as Chief Bazaar-Opener of Maoriland,
has received a printed reference in advance
from the Westminster Gazette, which
organ says loftily that he “has every quali-
fication for the post.” Then it enumerates
them thus: (1) Distinguished presence. (2)
Birth. (3) Wealth. (4) Notable tact. (5)
Love of sport. When Ruin stares it in the
face —if it should happen to stare during
Liverpool’s term —it will comfort Maori-
land to reflect that his Ex. has a distin-
guished presence. But perhaps, by that time,
he will only have a distinguished absence.
AN IMPRESSION' OF KING O'MALLEY.
The 90ft. fall of a Melbourne laborer, last
week, from the third floor of the new State
Savings Bank is a reminder that it is a
great mistake to be a worker on high places
when you are middle-aged or old. When the
ambulance goes down in a hurry to collect
the stevedore who has fallen down the hold,
the injured one generally turns out to be a
man of over 40. The really wise man con-
trives things so that he has a comfortable
swing chair somewhere at the head of a
business, when he is on the long down-
grade. Then, if he has any time left over
from Board meetings, he can lounge sociably
in Parliament and oppose, in a dignified
gentlemanly fashion, any rash legislation
which aims at “coddling” the worker.
Henry Upton Alcock, one of the earliest
fathers of the manufacturing industry in Mel-
bourne, died last week, aged 89. It would
have been a fair thing to have let the
veteran prolong his break to 100. He started
business as a bagatelle-table maker just 60
years ago, and promptly proceeded to the
manufacture of full-sized billiard tables, im-
porting slates, cloth and cushions, but mak-
ing the wooden frames at his factory. It
was one of the few industries that could be
established without a protective tariff, and
in a few years Alcock had practically pushed
English billiard-tables off the Australian
market. He made furniture of all sorts,
and testified in his goods to the virtues of
various Australian timbers. “Local manu-
facture of native products” was Henry
Alcock’s trade mark. As soon as he could get
the slate he required from local quarries he
ceased to import slate beds for his billiard-
tables, and when cloth-milling was estab-
lished in Victoria he offered a premium of
£5OO to the first mill that w r ould turn out a
decent billiard cloth for his use. The prize,
unfortunately, was never claimed. An en-
terprising worker, a good Australian and a
very kindly-natured citizen was the Alcock,
now deceased. Three sons are respectively
general manager, secretary and W.A. branch
manager of the Alcock and Co. Proprietary.
J. W. Shannon, the new S.A. Senator
(elected by the State Parliament to fill the
gap caused by the death of Senator Russell),
is a son of Anak and a descendant of Og of
Bashan. He is something over a fathom
high, and a relative who sat in the State
Parliament in earlier years was 6ift. high.
Another of the family, who was still taller,
tried to become a member but failed. Shan-
non entered Parliament 16 years ago as
representative of Yorke Peninsula, a con-
stituency which then possessed two or three
electors, and a dog and a bee. Nine candi-
dates struggled for the billet, and Shannon
came first, with “Turncoat Bill” Copley
second. He is an auctioneer, and once part-
nered with that low-spirited and weeping
public man, Butler —the Treasurer who
always looked like an undertaker. During
the tail-end of his career in the S.A. Ass.
he was a colleague of ex-Premier Verran in
the representation of Wallaroo. Also, he
was leader of the Opposition against Pre-
mier Jenkins (“Jenkins Iscariot”) before
Peake got the billet. He never attained to
a portfolio; in fact, he “did his dash” in
1905, when he lost his seat by 100 votes.
One Winter got it, and it was a cold time
for Shannon—in fact, Shannon froze over.
He was the biggest man among the six old
members who lost their jobs on that day of
tribulation.
“Penola”: There. is some talk of urging
the Gordon Memorial Committee to provide
a pension to the poet’s widow instead of
building the statue with which Melbourne
has been threatened. She is about 70 years
of age, and is also the widow of one Lowe
who was an overseer on a station at Penola
(S.A.) in the ’Bo’s. Gordon married the
lady in 1564. She had tended him after a
bad horse-accident, and like many other in-
valids he got mashed on his nurse. Soon
after Gordon’s death his widow parted with
his copyrights for a mess of pottage, and
has made no profits out of his works since
then.
Jimmy Allen, Maoriland Minister for
if inance, has been a long and weary time in
1 arliament. In 1887 he created a sensation
by defeating Robert Stout, who was then
Premier, in the struggle for the North Dune-
din seat. Stout’s downfall was epoch-mak-
ing, in its way. It left Ballance as leader
ot a reformed Liberal-Labor party, and
paved the way for the triumph of Seddon
and the calamity of Ward. J.A. can
scarcely be described as having shed a great
light on politics, but as person in charge of
the public purse he has now the show of
his life. While in Opposition, he was a
tedious speaker of infinite fluency. He was
given to repetitions, and his favorite open-
ing of an attack upon a measure came to be
well known and deeply loved. “Does any-
one understand this Bill? Does the Minister
in charge understand his own Bill? I don’t
understand the Bill! Nobody understands
the Bill. Then the printed document
would be hurled dow T n with melodramatic
violence, and the leagues of oration began.
THE BREAKER OF BONDS.
“While I was acting-Minister for Justice,” said
Mr. Holman, “I had the pleasure of letting out a
great number of men from durance vile. Many a
burglar I have restored to his friends and his re-
lations.
H OLMAN: "It's this way , old boy. I’ve a
fellow feeling."
RELEASED BURGLAR: “ Why, you ain't ever
shook nothin’?”
H OLMAN: “ Ain't I? What price me shaking
Wade's Loan policy."
The late Ben Short, who was for many
years a canvasser for the A.M.P. Society,
and late in life on the board of directors,
left an estate valued at £14,667. There used
to be a story told in connection with Ben’s
mode of canvassing. If he found an obdu-
rate man, who could not see eye to eye with
the canvasser, Ben went on his knees and
implored the Almighty to open the eyes of
the tough customer and reveal to him the
benefits of life assurance.
THE SANITY OF CLOTHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If our soundness of mind is to be judged by the
clothes we wear, W. J. Chidley will have the streets
of Sydney to himself next summer. The rest of us,
Dr. Ross included, will spend the warm months at
Callan Park. —Sydney Sun.
Swathed in the cloth of vanity,
When sun and sky are kind,
We bear our heated sanity
Against the Summer wind;
Perspiring nature we devote
On altars of the great god Coat.
In splendid, suave temerity
We wear above our fat
The emblems of prosperity,
Stiff shirt and shiny hat;
And fearless ’neath the sun’s red fire
Our limbs in trousers we attire.
Despising reciprocity
With blue Deceinber’s airs,
We joy in each atrocity
Our loaded person wears,
And while our cuffs and collars melt,
Disdain to show an unswathed pelt.
In smiling hot urbanity
We bow to custom’s rule,
And testify our sanity
In terms of sweat and wool,
The while the naked sun and sky
Are baking naked Summer dry.
N.S.W.
RIMU.
THE SANE AND SEXLESS SUFFRAGETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
According to Gertrude Atherton, the Suffragette
represents the highest type of womanhood vet
evolved. Strong, sane, self-possessed, almost sexless
she is m possession of the calm power which is to
reform the world.
Insanity,
Inanity,
And every female vanity
That puzzles male humanity
Have fled away,
Or so they say—
Don’t doubt the fact, wo have it on
The word of Gertrude Atherton;
A writing genius, who has met
The self-sufficing Suffragette,
And offers her the Woman’s Crown
As having fought sex weakness down.
Alack a day!
AH fled away,
The smiles that flit or sometimes stay,
The melting eyes that none gainsay,
We may regret
Their passing, yet
We gain the woman of stern poise,
Of steadfast nerve and racking noise,
Who wins the heights, and sceptre wields
O’er fresh, untrodden moral fields,
Strong, sane and sexless, she shall yet
Reform this world, the Suffragette.
N.S.W.
ROSE DE BOHEME.


ħ
Ycu -n>
■Vv. D
: W. D gw m
-Sj- O. Vvi i i <a,
“ Isn’t naval life
perfect? ”
“ Not quite! While
on duty we can’t
smoke. We miss the
enjoyment of smoking
our favorite brand —•
WILLS’ S CAPSTAN
(Navy Cut) TOBACCO
Capstan (navy cut)
Medium
V/. D. & H.O.WIUS
Capstan (.navy cut)
medium
Capstan (navycut)
MEDIUM
-W.D-8* H - O - W l lls.
CAPSTAN (navy
iw. d & e m wr 1
cot)
p6 iVo.y^
H -
-\N
The fame of this Tobacco is due to
exceptional fragrance, smoothness and
satisfying quality.
The World’s favorite. Enjoy it to-day.
Tfve/amous brand of
W.D.&H.O.WILLS.
h
ĥ
cut)
u
CA p& .
6.0
vH.O
35
S£
medium strength
m
m
ED
STER
W.D.&H.O.WiIIs
1 (Austpai iaM t PSyoNE-'A


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
ORE BUYERS.
Cash Advances Made Against Consignments.
CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED.
EDWARDS’ ORE REDUCTION COMPANY,
HEAD OFFICE: SEBASTOPOL, BALLARAT.
Telephone N 0.—283 Cable Address PYRITIC,” BALLARAT. f 2
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank, from the time when it had a belated revalua-
tion, and in consequence reduced its capital from
£909,979 to £198,935, and also wrote off £BlO7 of
alleged reserves, leaving £B4B to go on with :
Dividends on To Re- Re-
Profits. Preference Shares, serves, serves.
June, 1905.. £3395 4 p.c. = £3352 £43 £B9l
Dec., 1905.. 3636 4 „ „ 3352 284 1,175
June, 1906.. 4369 5 ~ „ 4190 179 1,354
Dec., 1906.. 4816 5 „ „ 4190 626 1,980
On all Shares.
June, 1907.. 5547 5 p.c.= 5000 547 2,527
Dec., 1907.. 6106 5„ ~ 5000 1106 3,633
< Pref!
sp.c. Others.
June, 1908.. 6539 £4190 7£p.c. = £1215 1134 4,767
Dec., 1908.. 6610 4190 7| „ ~ 1215 1205 5,C<2
June, 1909.. 6796 4190 10 ~ ~ 1620 986 6,958
Dec., 1909.. 6277 4190 10 „„ 1620 467 7,425
June, 1910.. 7066 4190 10 ~ ~ 1620 1256 8,681
Dec., 1910.. 5532 4190 10 „,, 1620 8,403
June, 1911.. 6678 4190 12J „ „ 2025 463 8,866
Dec., 1911.. 6886 4190 12£ „ „ 2025 671 9,537
June, 1912.. 7251 4190 12jr „,, 2025 1036 10,573
This company is still employed chiefly in the undei -
takery business. The dead-horse on the premises
was so colossal that the management did not dare to
frankly face it until 1905. It was the old trouble.
The co. had plunged in the Melbourne land boom,
and amongst its assets had accumulated a vast quan-
tity of vacant land, mostly suburban, which brought
in nothing but rate papers and the neighbors’ empty
jam tins. Most of these unproductive assets were
represented by borrowed money, and as the loans
didn’t shrink there was nothing for it but for the
shareholders to hew down their own capital. In the
reconstruction it was decided to still allow ordinary
shareholders a small interest, in case there should be
a big rebound in values. The £5 preference shares
were written down to 305., with a ss. deferred share
added. The ordinary capital was cut down from
£369,602 to £3500, so that this brand of share-
holder got, speaking roughly, a Is. share for his old
£5 interest. Any surpluses arising from the sale of
old assets are credited to a special reserve, which
belongs to the deferred and ordinary shareholders.
This fund has grown as follows: —
Profit on
Total Sales Special
Sales. Completed. Reserves.
June, 1905 ..£13,994 £794 £794
Dee., 1905 . . 20,193 1,340 2,134
June, 1906 .. 33,218 1,366 3,500
Dec., 1906 . . 52,343 9,989 13,489
June, 1907 .. 17,427 2,496 15,985
Dec., 1907 . . 14,126 705 16,690
Juno, 1908 . . 16,979 2,124 18,814
Dec., 1908 . . 13,514 521 19,335
June, 1909 . . 16,177 16,403 35,738
Dec., 1909 . . 15,386 474 36,212
June, 1910 .. 18,569 3,493 39,705
Dec., 1910 .. 21,724 12,351 52,056
June, 1911 .. 15,386 4,036 56,092
Dec., 1911 .. 21,970 3,368 59,460
June, 1912 .. 17,369 7,107 66,567
Ordinary and deferred capital totals £32,406. The
special reserve brings that total up to £98,973, which
is really the amount of the capital, plus the restored
capital, apart from the preference, £167,596. The
dividend for the half-year was £2025, so the ord.
and def. div., nominally p.c., is really a shade
over 4 p.c. It does not appear whether deferred and
ordinary shareholders will ever get the_ special reserve
cut up amongst them; if it is not intended to do
that, it would appear to be a fair thing to either
restore the capital in a formal way, or snecially
invest the reserve, so that these shares might be sure
of getting the interest from it.
After cleaning up the accounts in the determined
manner shown above, the management decided to
chase new business, and has been catching a good deal
of it. This shows various movements: —
June, June, Dec., June,
1905. 1911. 1911. 1912.
Deposits (free) £7,788 £20,803 £21,615 £21,005
Deposits (fixed) 358,090 272,185 252,002 276,175
House properties 172,564 100,428 89,212 84,066
Land .. .. 144,293 27,126 21,995 18,405
Balancesowing 52,175 101,381 102,647 103,711
Advances . . 98,150, 231,948 244,542 240,950
Prem ; ses .. 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000
Liquid assets . . 65,010 68,720 86,424 98,881
The very best feature of the case is the almost entire
cleaning out of the old rate-paper-and-iam-tin asset.
As late as 1905 the bank had £141,293 of vacant
land on its books; it now has only £18,405. The
money thus realised, together with over £90,000
produced by the sale of bouse property, has gone
chiefly in new advances —which no doubt means to a
great extent money owing by purchasers who are
paying off on the instalment plan. The business is
otherwise financed by new deposits. The total amount
owing by the company to the public under every head
is £297,656. On the other side the company has
£98.881 liquid assets, along with non-liquid assets
totalling £482,132. Thus, for every £2 of the
public’s money not represented by cash, etc., is
about £ 5 worth of property; and as the latter
seems to be rather undervalued than overvalued, a
creditor can’t reasonably ask for better security.
There are the foundations, in fact, for a much bigger
business, and no visible reason why it shouldn’t be
built.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(N.S.W.) : —-
Unex-
plained
Business Addi- Written
fro- tions to off Re- Re-
fits. Reserves. Dividends, serves, serves.
June, 1904.. £3,992 £775 6p.c. =£3,938 £41,649
Dec., 1904.. 5,596 3987 8,, „ 5,250 45.982
June, 1905.. 5,860 4542 8 „ „ 5,250 5R134
Dec.. 1905.. 6,230 852 8,, ~ 5,602 52,614
June, 1906.. 7,245 .1000 8„ ~ 6,750 54,109
Dec., 1906.. 8,021 1500 8,, ~ 7,000 56,630
June. 1907.. 8,791 1573 8„ „ 8,266 58,728
Dec., 1907.. 8,783 —8„ „ 8,750 £2274 50,487
June, 1908.. 6,239 3526 8 „ ~ 8,750 57,502
Dec., 1908.. 8,959 1756 8,, ~ 8,750 59.467
June, 1909.. 9,206 —8,, ~ 8,750 162 59,851
Dec., 1909.. 9,038 2020 8,, „ 8,750 62,159
June, 1910.. 8,887 —8„ „ 8,750 136 62,160
Dec., 1910.. 9,016 4149 8,, „ 8,750 66,575
June,l9ll.. 10,587 —8,, ~ 8,750 656 67,756
Dec., 1911.. 10,123 —8,, ~ 9,879 2589 65,411
June, 1912.. 11,938 1438 8,, ~11,420 67,357
This is the most progressive company in the
coastal shipping trade of Australia, limiting the
term to concerns which confine themselves to one
State. Ten years ago its shipping, built and under
construction, was valued at £129.962; now the
correspond : ng items represent £325,487. Part of the
necessary funds came from the sale of wharf property,
but the bulk is new capital. This shows the move-
ments in detail: —
Dec., 1901. Dec., 1911. June, 1912.
Capital .. ..£131,250 £270,633 £299,369
Liabilities .. 61,161 35,007 38,956
Ships .. .. 114,641 297,217 325,487
Wharves, works, etc. 82,117 25,900 25,087
Cash and book debts 18,814 35,126 43,494
Sundry assets .. 10,240 22,688 23,033
The coastline served by the company consists of the
Ma State’s new cow province, where the development
of the butter business during the past few years has
been prodigious. The grazing lands are mostly along
the rivers and their tributaries, and the vessels have to
get either into these rivers, or into bar harbors to carry
on the trade. No Government in Sydney-bossed New
South Wales gets much honor and glory out of muck-
shifting on a remote Northern bar, hence this co.’s
business is carried on under a heavy handicap, in-
volving losses through delay and actual wreckage.
Pretty well every Government hands the company a
truckload of sympathy; but it is doubtful whether
most of them will be more inclined to give greater
practical help as the competing Government railways
are pushed further and further into the country.
During the last few terms the, co. has also considered
itself hard hit by labor troubles. Big concessions
have been made, w'hich it cheerfully admits have
been passed on. The time will come, however, when
the passing on won’t be so easy. Besides the butter
business, the North Coast is largely interested
in the timber trade, and in the current construction
boom it hardly matters what is charged for timber;
but that won’t be so always. It seems likely, there-
fore, that the company has quite its fair share of
troubles ahead of it. And though its position is
no doubt solid enough, and the outlook fair, there is
no reason to expect any gorgeous results to compen-
sate for the probable drab streaks.
The National Bank of Maoriland :
Net To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1899.. £38,466 7 p.c. =£17,500 £20,966 £65,161
1900.. 42,34 S S ~ ~ 20,000 22,348 87,5"9
1901.. 55,785 10 ~ ~ 25,000 30,785 115,294
1902.. 64,933 10 ~ „ 25,000 39,933 158,227
1903.. 54,533 10 ~ ~ 25,000 29,533 187,760
1904.. 60,643 12 ~ ~ 30,000 30,643 218,403
1905.. 49,907 12 „ „ 30,000 19,907 238,310
1906.. 50,857 12 ~ „ 30,000 20,857 259,167
Premiums on new share issue 50,000 309,167
1907.. 64,901 12 p.c.= 38,750 26,151 335,318
1908.. 71,045 12 ~ ~ 45,000 26,045 361,363
1909.. 75,423 13 ~ „ 48,750 26,673 388,036
1910.. 72,374 12 „ ~ 45,000 27,374 415,410
Premiums on new share issue 62,500 477,910
1911.. 79,594 13 p.c. = 57,500 22,094 500,004
1912.. 91,260 13 „ ~ 65,000 26,260 526,264
The head office of this bank is in London, where most
cf the shares are held. The capital now is £500,000
in 200,000 shares of £2 10s. each, with a liability
of £ 5. The fact that shareholders can be called upon
to part up a million;, coupled with the other fact that
the share register is of a solid John Bully character,
no doubt has its effect in the matter of deposits,
which seem to be always pretty easy to get in Lon-
don on excellent terms. To a great extent, no doubt,
this cheap money is responsible for the juicy profits
—juicier even than the list shows, because large
amounts have been deducted and used to write down
premises and other assets. How severe or otherwise
this writing down has been cannot be told for cer-
tain, but you can get some hint of it from the fact
that “landed property, premises and furniture”
stand now in. the books at £78,330, as against
£83,265 10 years ago, although the turnover has
increased by about one-third, and no doubt premises
have been largely added to to cope with the expand-
ing business. Calculated on capital and reserves
combined, the profit for the past year was at the
rate of £9 2s. 6‘d. p.c. Notwithstanding that the
public’s money in the business (deposits, etc.) re-
presented only a very moderate £5 6s. 6d. for every
£1 of the shareholders’ funds. This points either to
an extraordinarily profitable business or to a large
and productive internal reserve. Probably it points
to both things at once.
Certainly a bank, carrying on most of its business
in Maoriland, wouldn’t be entitled to feel comfortable
unless it had large reserves. Under Seddon, in his
later days, and under lou Ward, the Dominion has
been borrowing furiously, and has now got so little
tether left that it is paying about 4| p.c. for a trifle
to go on with till the morning, so to speak. And
very unpleasant things are liable to happen in the
morning. The bank that didn’t put by a. large
amount of the over-night profits to meet the highly
probable unpleasantnesses in the morning would be
very liable to get into difficulties. Pretty clearly,
this bank realises the truth of all this, and very few
Maoriland concerns have been put in a better posi-
tion to stand the shock that may be ahead.
The next small comparison shows the movements
over a 10-year period:—
Liabilities.
1902. 1911. 1912.
Notes .. ..£252,339 £272,680. £268,270
Bills, etc. .. 333,526 606,773 837,349
Deposits . . 2,732,951 4,296,328 4,357,926
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 756,850 2,401,420 2,417,691
Advances ~ 2,901,929 3,740,673 4,031,787
Premises, etc. .. 83,265 71,692 78,330
In the past 12 months customers have dropped in for
a good deal of extra accommodation, which is very
characteristic of recent Maoriland conditions, and
extra deposits have not been received to meet the
demand ; nevertheless, the position is still quite strong,
no, less than 44 p.c. of the public’s money (deposits,
etc.), being still available in liquid shapes. If
Maoriland were not taking such extraordinary risks
through its dealings with Cohen, this bank’s share-
holders would be on a -wonderfully good wicket.
Apart from those contingencies, considering the com-
parative modesty of their debt to the public, and the
large proportion of that debt which is held liquid,
their return of £9 2s. 6d. p.c. is just about as good as
anything visible in these parts.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.:
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1903.. £8,702 8 p.c. =£5,600 £3,102 £12,730
June, 1904.. 10,339 10 „ ~ 7,000 3,339 16,069
Dec., 1904.. 11,499 10 ~ ~ 7,000 4,499 20,568
June, 1905.. 11,104 10 „ „ 7,000 ’4,104 24,672
Dec., 1905.. 12,986 10 „ ~ 7,000 5,986 30,658
£20.000 of reserves transferred to capital 10,658
June, 1906.. 12,999 llip.c.= 9,000 3,999 14,657
Dec., 1906.. 13,076 10 „ „ 8,000 5,076 19,733
June, 1907.. 12,710 10 ~ „ 8,999 3,711 23,444
Dec., 1907.. 12,044 1 0 ~ „ 8,999 3,045 26,489
June, 1908.. 12,583 10 „ „ 8.999 3,584 30,073
Dec., 1908.. 18,019 15 „ „ 14,500 3,519 33,592
June, 1909.. 16,098 10 „ „ 10,000 6,098 39,690
Dec., 1909.. 12,119 10 ~ ~ 10.000 2,119 41,809
£30,000 of reserves transferred to capital 11,809
June, 1910.. 17,276 10 p.c. = 12,498 4,778 16,587
Internal reserves disclosed .. 79,410 95,997
Dec., 1910.. 19,571 12£ p.c. = 15,623 3,948 99,945
June, 1911.. 19,473 10 „ ~13,125 6,348 106,293
Dec., 1911.. 21,866 10 „ ~ 15,000 6,866 113,159
June, 1912.. 19,023 10 „ ~15,000 4,023 117,182
The additions made to the company’s funds during
the half-year come under two headings:—
Added to reserve for depreciation, public risk
and contingencies . . . . . . £4OOO
Added to Profit and Loss balance .. .. 23
£4023
And the reserves now consist of three items: (1)
The visible and ordinary reserve fund of £25,000;
(2) the trifle of undivided profit—£Bs7 ; (3) the
reserve for depreciation, public risk and contingen-
cies, £91,325. The last item looks distinctly doubt-
ful—that is to say, it looks distinctly bloated. There
is no earthly reason to believe that depreciation isn’t
fully provided for out of current earnings ; and “pub-
lic risk and contingencies” are somewhat vague and
undefinable. In fact, this habit of passing large sums
to an account to cover hazy possibilities looks rather
like an excess of caution or an attempt to disguise
the dimensions of the profits.
Since December last the fleet in active service has
increased from 35 to 36 vessels. One, at least, of
the old vessels has been replaced by a new one.
Instead of four vessels under construction there are
six. Yet, ship property only stands in the balance-
sheet at about £20,000 more than it did a half-year
ago. Consequently it seems reasonable to imagine
that depreciation has been fairly provided for, and
that the £4OOO added to the Depreciation, etc., Re-
serve, is really an addition to the company’s accumu-
lations. Taking the past 12 months into account,
this is how the figures have moved: —
June, 1911. June, 1912.
Ships £179,988 £206,487
Land, etc. . . . . 146,988 149,782
Liquid assets . . . . 76,556 71,260
Other assets .. . . 10,035 10,283
Total.. .. ..£413,567 £437,812
Less liabilities .. .. 6,338 5,630
£407,229 £432,182
It represents very solid progress. The profession that
the co. pays only 10 p.c. to its shareholders is, of
course, a jest. If all the waterings of the stock and
all the transfers of accumulated profits to capital
were taken into account, it would be much nearer the
truth to say that the shareholders receive 20 or even
more per cent, on the amount they actually put into
the business. And when the 36 vessels in active ser-
vice, and the six partly constructed, are valued at
less than £5OOO each, a suspicion arises that the
estimate is very low, and that the reserves are really
larger than they look. It is when the Hughes section
of the Labor party looks at splendid Freetrade and
rather low wage monopolies of this sort that it runs
amok, and declares that the Protected manufacturer
(who is very glad to make half, or even one-third,
the profits of this affair) is a cormorant, and that
there must be no thought of further Protection until
the worker is assured of his share of the gigantic
profits. «
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd.: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’04.. 12,080 10 p.c. = 10,000 2,080 37,143
June,’05..15,622 10 ~ ~10.000 5,622 42,765
Dec., ’05..16,197 10 ~ ~10,000 6,197 48,962
June,'06..21,579 10 ~ ~10,000 11,579 60,541
£50,000 (one-fourth) of capital returned.
Dec., ’06..21.796 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,796 72,337
June,’07..35,119 10 ~ „ 7,500 37,698 —62,25 S
Dec., ’07..40,660 10 ~ ~ 7,500 4,355 28,805 91,063
June,’08.,27,422 10 „ ~ 7,500 2,291 17,631 108,694
Dec., '08..25,283 10 ~ ~ 7,500 ’ 17,783 126,477
June,’o9.. 14,609 10 „ ~ 7,500 7,109 133,586
£lOO,OOO (one-half) of capital returned.
Dec., ’09..21,954 30 p.c. = 7,500 99,811 48,229
June, ’lO. .15,499 30 „ „ 7,500 7,999 56,228
Dec., '10..30,287 30 „ „ 7,500 22,787 79,015
Bonus (80 p.c.) paid to shareholders .. 39,015
June,’11..25,460 30 p.c.= 7,500 1,155 16,805 55,820
Dec., ’11..30,309 55 „ ~ 13,750 1,785 14,774 70,594
June,’12..32,506 120 „ ~32,436 70 70,664
The capital is now £50,000, in 200,000 shares.
During most of the co.’s life the total was £200,000.
When the N.S.W. Parliament authorised a gang or
syndicate to dam the principal creek on the Barrier
silver field, and supply the neighboring town and
mines with water, it limited the concession to 28
years. Only six and a half years of the license to
plunder are left. As the end drew near the directors
began to cut up the sinking fund, which had been
established to repay capital. This sinking fund had
been necessary, because, when the company hands
the works over, it is to get no payment for them.
So far, three-fourths of the capital has been refunded ;
but naturally the works don’t yield a farthing less
profit on that account. Hence the outrageous divi-
dend shown above, as paid during the past six
months. The directors, in their report, remark that
this dividend must be regarded, “to a certain extent,
as a part return of capital in addition to interest.”
But, as a matter of fact, liquid assets, after paying
all liabilities, amount to £57,436, which is £7436
in excess of the capital. It is, therefore, quite cer-
tain that the balance of the capital will be returned
presently in a lump. Besides the liquid assets, there
are certain other assets which the company will
probably only hand over at a valuation, if at all —
such as stock, cottages, etc. These may mean any-
thing from £lO,OOO to , £20,000, to be divided
among the shareholders.
Also, of course, there will be the profits for the
next 6-J years. For the past 6J years the profits
have aggregated £342,483, or £1 14s. a share.
There is, however, no certainty that the plum for the
next 6J years will be so big and luscious. For one
thing, the Government, having millions to spend, is
dropping about £400,000 into a new scheme, and
water may be coming through the pipes from this
Umberumberka weir in a couple of years from now.
It won’t be cheap water, however, because of the big
capital outlay and the heavy pumping costs. Share-
holders in this co. (which is short for cormorant)
are consequently not in any great peril of a furious
competition. And, finally, the prospects of a very
large consumption of water for the next four or
five years are excellent. After that, with the highly
probable decline in the output from the zinc mills,
anything may happen. About that time the State
will come into the whole water supply business, and
Broken Hill, which really deserves to get cheap
water at last, won’t be able to, because of the big
cost of the new and, under the circumstances, un-
necessary works.
Port .Tackson and Manly Steamship
Go., Ltd. (Sydney):—-
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. 0(f. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1904.. 7,973 8 p.c. = 1,000 5268 1,705 2,988
Dec., 1904.. 6,407 8 „ ~ 1,000 1068 4,339 7,327
June, 1905.. 11,038 10 „ ~ 1,250 8664 1,124 8,451
Dec., 1905.. 7,966 10 „ „ 1,250 6,716 15,167
June, 1906.. 8,075 10 ~ ~ 1,250 6,825 21,992
Dec., 1906.. 8,609 10 ~ ~ 1,250 7,359 29 351
Premium on issue of new shares .. 4.335 33,686
June, 1907.. 15,718 14 p.c. = 2,055 13,663 47,349
{No accounts available.
Apparently added to re-
serves 12,628 59,977
Transferred to capita], £58,670 .. 1,307
June, 1908.. 10,721 Bp.c.= 3,520 7,201 8,508
Dec., 1908.. 16,551 10 „ „ 4,400 12,151 20,659
June, 1909.. 13,335 10 „ ~ 4,400 8,935 29,594
Transferred to capital, £17,601 .. .. 11,993
Dec., 1909.. 11,341 10 p.c. = 4,840 6,501 18,494
June, 1910.. 13,280 10 „ „ 5,280 8,000 26,494
Dec., 1910.. 18,971 ,, 7,040 11,931 38,425
June, 1911.. 24,477 13J „ „ 7,040 17,437 55,862
Dec., 1911.. 23,861 13| ~ ~ 7,040 16,821 72,683
Transferred to capital, £52,803 .. .. 19,880
June, 1912.. 19,245 lSJp.c. = 10,56 L 8,684 28,564
Every little while some young man, tingling with
tb, Joy of Life, writes to The Bulletin to suggest
the appointment of a Minister for Blue Bows and
Pink Parasols. The record of this co. shows that
Sydney doesn’t need a Government Department to
persuade it to take its pleasure gladly. Fifteen years
ago this co., or rather its predecessor, was a strug-
gling, emaciated pigmy, making a precarious living
by hauling an occasional load of trappers to and
from Manly. Then Sydney suddenly discovered
the fascinations of mixed bathing in the surf,
and Manly became the rage. The co. proceeded very
craftily. While continuing to charge a compara-
tively stiff price for carting the casual tripper, it
made extraordinarily low season rates for the more
or less permanent resident. This had two results.
The casual tripper, scattering as soon as he landed
back in Sydney, couldn’t aim an effective kick at the
comparatively high tariff; while the exceedingly low
season rates brought a permanent population to bar-
rack for the co., and the attractions of the suburb
which it serves. One way and another, therefore,
the co. has done amazingly. Not only does it pay
a succulent dividend, but it has made the share-
holders repeated presents of bonus shares. During
the past six months this pleasant process provided
shareholders with one new share for every two old
ones. The whole situation in this respect is disclosed
hereunder: —
Capital actually paid .. .. .. £29,335
Ditto paid out of profits .. .. 129,074
Present capital .. .. ..£158,409
Consequently, the 13£ p.c. dividend, totalling
£10,561 for the half-year, is really a 72 p.c. divi-
dend on the £29,335 of capital actually subscribed.
It is gorgeous.
And even then the profits appear to be greatly in
excess of the dividend. The table on the upper deck
of this notice refers to the profit for the half-year
as £19,245, or at the rate of 131 p.c. p.a. on the
actual capital. In other words, the current profits
of nine months’ trading equal the entire amount of
money put up by the shareholders. The directors
are much more modest; they say the half-year’s pro-
fit was £10,775, “after providing for depreciation,
etc.” “Etc.” covers a multitude of things. This
little list shows how The Bulletin arrives at its
£19,245:
Added to Public Risk Reserve . . £l,OOO
„ ~ Steamers’ Insurance Fund. . 1,280
~ ~ Reserve Fund .. . . 6,190
Alleged Net Profit .. .. ... 10,775
Total (profit as per table) . . £19,245
Perhaps the additions to some of these reserves are not
true profits. For instance. Public Risk and Steamers’
Insurance Funds are supposed to be an accumulation
of premiums to cover risks still current. On the
other hand, it is certain that the co. has a net
revenue far exceeding £19,245, but writes off the
excess nominally against depreciations. In other
words, it uses undisclosed profit to help pay for new
steamers. Six months ago steamer property stood in
the books at £94,901 ; the corresponding item has
now been reduced to £87,379. This indicates that
£7522 of undisclosed profit has been written off.
One new steamer has just been launched, and another
will be ready for the summer traffic of 1913. These,
like every other addition made to the fleet during the
past seven years, will be paid for out of profits. Dur-
ing the past seven years or thereabouts the Bingarra,
Burra-Bra and Beliubera have been added, the Bal-
gowlah has been launched, and a boat of the same size
is under construction; and, notwithstanding these
additions, although no new capital has been got in,
the co. had, on June 30, cash deposits totalling
£58,257. As to its risks, any bad accident due to
the negligence of a servant might easily cost the co.
twice the amount of its capital; and any slump in
Sydney’s prosperity would pretty certainly be felt
keenly by this co., which caters so largely for
pleasure seekers.
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of £46,235,
representing goodwill ( £45,000) and preliminary ex-
penses :
Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
Jan., 1909.. £46,235
June, 1909.. £6865 10 p.c. = £3379 £3486 42,749
Premiums on new shares 2500 40,249
Dec., 1909.. 6433 10 p.c. = 4000 2433 37,816
June, 1910.. 6038 10 ~ „ 4500 1538 36,278
Dec., 1910.. 8076 10 „ „ 4500 3576 32,702
June, 1911.. 7669 10 „ ~ 4500 3169 29,533
Dec., 1911.. 5520 10 „ ~ 4500 1020 28,513
June, 1912.. 7159 10 ~ ~ 4600 2559 25,954
This is a splendid profit-making business in good
times, though in bad times, when people take their
lunch to the office with them wrapped up in the
Evening News, things are not likely to be so prosper-
ous. The half-year’s profits are at the rate of £l5
15s. 3d. p.c. per annum on the paid-up capital of
£94,000, and the figure is eminently respectable.
Since the concern was founded, at the end of 1908,
the sum of £20,281 has been wiped off the great
preliminary shortage or dead horse —£2500 by . the
issue of shares at a premium and £17,781 out of
earnings. This is good progress. The preliihinary
expenses item has long since disappeared, 1 but the
goodwill, which is a very bad sort of paper item,
still stands at the original £45,000, with £19,046
of alleged reserves against it. This way of doing
things inflates the figures, and it would be much more
business-like to abolish all the alleged reserves, in-
cluding even the profit and loss balance, and apply
every spare copper to the obliteration of the good-
will item till it disappears. Out of the £95,433 of
assets, apart from goodwill, £24,750 is represented
by “leasehold premises and improvements,” which is
a wasting item. The report says that depreciation
is fully provided for. The rest Consists of freeholds,
plant, cash, buns and other comestibles, and sun-
dries. Recent progress is as follows: —
Liabilities.
June, Dec., June,
1909. 1911. 1912.
Capital £BO,OOO £90,000 £94,000
Creditors ..: .. 12,291 14,436 22,787
ASSETS.
Freeholds .. .. 7,100 20,120 20,320
Leaseholds .. .. 12,550 18,275 24,750
Plant, etc. . . . . 23,758 31,935 37,460
Stock . . . . 2,610 3,044 4,249
Cash . . . . 5,755 5.860 6,613
Sundries . . . . 1,149 1,189 2,041
The precarious leasehold item has been increasing of
late—a great deal faster than the much-more-stable
freehold. The amount due to creditors has risen very
fast during the last half-year. The plant-—which is
useful only in a business of this sort—has also in-
creased very suddenly. The cash hasn’t increased much,
and there are no investments in securities outside
the business to fall back upon. It is a fine large pro-
fitable bun-and-tea industry; but when a wise man is
on his death-bed he wpn’t leave quite all the pro-
vision for his wife and family in a thing of the sort.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Syd-
ney), property auctioneers, valuators, etc. :
Deficit
In (Goodwill
Redue- not
tion of reckoned
Profits. Dividends. Deficit, an Asset).
June, 1994.. £l6ll 5p.c.=£1500 £lll £42,502
Dec.. 1994.. 1622 5 ~ ~ 1500 122 42,380
June, 1905.. 1661 5 „ ~ 1500 161 42,219
Dec., 1905.. 1730 5 ~ ~ 1500 230 41,989
June, 1906.. 1830 5 „ „ 1500 33Q 41,659
Dec., 1906.. 2704 5 ~ „ 1500 1204 40,455
June, 1907.. 1527 5 „ ~ 1500 27 40,428
Pec., 1907.. 3112 5 ~ ~ 1500 1612 38,816
June, 1908.. 2487 5 „ „ 1500 937 37,829
Deo., 1908.. 3005 5 „ „ 1500 1505 36,324
June, 1909.. 2762 5 „ ~ 1500 1262 35,062
Dec., 1909.. 3411 5 ~ ~ 1500 1911 33,151
June, 1910.. 5069 6,. „ 1800 3260 29,891
Dec., 1910.. 4838 6 „ „ 1800 3038 26,853
June, 1911.. 5650 7,, „ 2100 3550 23,303
Dec., 1911.. 5696 7 „ „ 2100 3596 19,707
June, 1912.. 5612 7 ~ „ 2100 3512 16,195
Richardson and Wrench were Sydney bank officials of
the long ago. Bank officials then were not much
more affluent as a rule than they are to-day, so these
two left off counting other people’s money to try a
little of it on their own. They carried on the real
estate business for a good many years; then almost
at the height of the land boom of the late 80's they
let somebody else have their names and their trade
connection for a trifling little matter of £57,500.
The co. which was formed to buy the business had a
capital of £60,000; hence £2500 covered its entire


Skilled Organisation
Brings Success.
Expert management to-day accounts for
businesses quickly taking the lead, caus-
ing chagrin to competitors. The “live”
concern, ever ready to improve, pro-
gresses. Half-hearted, misguided methods
invariably bring failure. We’ll skilfully
and successfully work your company,
float your undertaking, and arrange for
subdivision and selling of your suburban
or country estate. We also act as Trus-
tees and Attorneys under power. Call.
Telephones—City 2391, 2392.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
Sydney 8 London, (capital £500,000.)
J. EARLE HERMANN, Managing Director.
C. C. COTTRELL, Secretary.
Yaralla Chambers (3rd Floor),
109 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
*9*
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
possessions apart from goodwill. The boom didn’t
last much longer, and then began a weary struggle
to pay dividends on the ridiculous bladder of capital.
The management, however, stuck to its job splendidly,
and put by little by little of solid assets to replace
the fictitious one; and every addition made the task
a little easier. The Sydney property boom of the
past few years has been an enormous help; so one
way and another the old deficit of £57,500 has
been whittled away to £16,195. In 10 years, though
the dividend has been put up, the position has
changed like this: —
1902. 1907. 1912.
Liquid assets . . £26,877 £29,559 £65,203
Liabilities .. 10,446 9,058 19,511
Surplus .. £16,431 £20,501 £45,692
If the profits for the next 2J years are equal to those
of the past 2J years, and if the dividend is not jerked
up violently, the co. should have its entire capital
represented by tangible assets, nearly all liquid, by
Dec., 1914. This will make the earning of future
dividends a very much easier matter. Assuming that
the capital is invested to earn 4 p.c., the business need
only show 3 p.c. in order to pay the present divi-
dend. And there may be a time when it may not
earn very much more, because the slump follows the
boom as surely as the headache follows the bad
whisky.
F.W.H.: Bewick, Moreing and John Taylor
are the only two firms that deal with these matters;
but A. J. Peacock, O'ollins-street, Melbourne, is con-
nected with a good many Vic. alluvial shows, and
should be worth consulting. ... Q.Y.W.: Reports have
been frequently printed. The battery is just about
ready... . J.B.S. (North Q.) : Afraid nothing can be
done with it here. ... Y.E.S.: Mount Morgan’s recent
divs. have been £20,000, or 20 p.c. a year on the
paid capital, but only 6 or 7 p.c. on the market
value of the shares. The co. is out for a large in-
crease in its copper production, but this means
heavy expenditure—perhaps from £50,000 to
£lOO,OO0 —on further plant, to be paid out of
profits unless the already large capital is added to.
The present increased output of copper ore doesn’t,
by itself, necessarily mean larger profits, as the
mundic works no longer treat the hundred thousand
tons or so of gold ore, which probably yielded at
least £50,000 profit per year, and also helped to
lighten the burden of standing charges which the
copper works now have to lump unaided. On the
other hand, copper is high, and a reduction in the
cost of copper production is almost certain. There
is room for an improvement of £3O a ton at least.
Without a reduction on last year’s costs there would
be little or no profit with copper at £5O, even
allowing £5O for the gold contents.
The cos. operating at Hill End (N.S.W.)
are finding that it is no use working on that field
without a fair amount of capital. Just at present
things happen to be booming somewhat on the
strength of good developments, so it is not very diffi-
cult to raise the wherewithal. Hawkin’s Hill Re-
ward proposes to increase its capital from £14,000
to £20,000, the idea being to equip the mine with
a modern milling plant, to deal with the large body
of ore claimed to be developed at Frenchman’s reef.
The neighboring Rowley’s reef is passing the hat
round for another £3600 in 36,000 shares at 25.,
to be sunk underground and not in a gaudy mill.
A bit of a spurt is being maintained by
Gondobolin (N.S.W.), on the strength of recent finds
in McPhillamy’s mine at Melrose. The ore is silver-
lead, said to come from a large formation, and to be
sufficiently rich to stand 40 miles cartage with ease.
Already some people talk of a second Broken Hill —
the inevitable comparison—and it is likely that more
wiU be heard of the show, as one or two particularly
good hands at that business are now to be found out
that way.
* * * *
The present high price for copper is en-
ticing not a few long-hidden derelicts out into the
daylight once more, and among them is the Blayney
(N.S.W.) copper mine, which is being drained for a
fresh start. A proposal has been mooted for some
time to use the old wind-swept smelter in an amalga-
mation between the numerous small copper shows out
at Orange Plains, Tottenham, Cadia, etc. If it
ever eventuates it is foredoomed to failure ; it smacks
too strongly of Chillagoe.
* * * *
Melbourne got going early first over Junc-
tion North (Broken Hill) scrip, the usual crowd
having evidently been primed. When one handsome
broker allowed himself to be pecked at by bears with-
out ruffling a hair of his curly head, the story grew
that something sultry was on for the “Juncky North.”
Of course the old crowd wouldn’t grieve if it could
pay off some past scores against the Sydney bandits
that ruffled its hen-roost on Sheppard’s exit. The
Palmer feud isn’t dead by a long way, and may lead
to another swirl of the Claymore, if the present
bustle is intended to bring someone else into
office in lieu of our well-beloved cousin, Tommy
Palmer. If, as is broadly hinted, the North Broken
magnates would gather the Juncky North into their
lap, just as they would the British —at a price—-
the question all want to know is just when the
dinner-bell is to ring.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation, the big concern
which has the handling of various dumps of old tail-
ings at Broken Hill, had a meeting in London in
June; and the accounts presented there have just
wandered back to Australia. They cover the last six
months of 1911, and are ancient history by this time.
These are the first figures issued since the amalgama-
tion of the old Zinc Corporation and the South
Blocks. That was a cunning deal, and there will be
much sniggering when the inner history of it is
written. In a general way it can be said now
that a big London group found itself loaded with a
heavy swag of South Blocks shares, which it couldn’t
shift on to the public, though all sorts of devices
were tried ; so the simple plan was adopted of secur-
ing the sale of the whole South Blocks outfit to the
Zinc Corporation, in return for shares in that con-
cern. Thus the group got good saleable scrip for its
lame ducks. Incidentally, the Zinc Corporation became
loaded up with an alleged mine which has been trying
to make profits for the past 20-odd years and has
never succeeded.
The shares in the new Zinc Corporation were cut
up this way:—
Preference Ordinary
£1 shares. 10s. shares.
To Zinc Corporation.. 179,026 453,132
To South Blocks .. 66,666 200,000
The six months’ profit was £73,244, out of which
£24,569 was paid to the preference shareholders dur-
ing the half-year. The pref. shares created by the
old company carried extraordinary rights, which the
new company had to respect. After the original
company had been floated on the froth of a boom it
got into serious difficulties. At this stage it raised
preference capital on these terms: First it was
pay back the whole of the principal; then it was
to pay 20 p.c. p.a. on that principal, even after it
had been paid back. And, finally, after getting
p.c., it was to rank equal to ordinary capital
with any further dividend. There was the money to
pay ordinary shares a dividend during the hall-year
under notice; but they couldn’t get a taste until
prefs. had got their 20 p.c. for a full year. f‘ ie
man who depends on ordinary shares plays, theretore,
with a rival who handles loaded dice. The ordinary
share may score no\y and again, but the pref. will
have all the luck of the game.
The co. was formed originally to work old tailings
dumps. It started in the business seven years ago,
and has been chewing up the material at an enor-
mous rate. During the half-year 140,3/0 tons were
treated, from eight separate dumps. The co. thereby
reduces the capital value of its dumps by £31,013,
that is at the rate of about 4s. sd. per ton. It esti-
mates the dumps on Dec. 31, 1911, at £342,351. If
these are valued on an average at the same 4s. sd. per
ton, they would contain about 1,540,000 tons. It
the co.’s appetite continued at the last half-year s
rate of 140,370 tons, the present dumps would keep it
going for about 54 years. After that the co. must
depend upon current production, and that means not
only a greatly reduced tonnage, but probably
much less satisfactory contracts. Moreover, the stuft
to be treated in the future will be of a much poorer-
average character. Apart altogether from the fact
that zinc and other metals produced by this co. are
booming, the future would appear to be much less
gaudy than the present, and there is no reason to
c'-poct that the company’s mine will bring it any
affluence. -
* * *
The Jumbunna coal mine shareholders
held a meeting in Melbourne last week, and decided
that life wasn’t worth while. The chairman wailed
about Wages Boards, high prices a.nd Trades Halls,
and every other speaker wailed similarly. In his
address the chair-gent, complained that a Board
had put up the men’s remuneration 19 to 33 p.c.;
the cost of mine material had been bumped up 10 to
29 p.c.; the p-ice of timber had surged ahead ; and
the State coal mine had been selling its slack at
2s. 6d. less than Private Enterprise could afford to
do. So he asked if, under such conditions, com-
mercial death wasn’t quite as good as commercial
life, and his hearers said it was. The co. has assets
worth from. 4s. 6d. to 4s. 9d. per share (market
value 2s. 3d.), and as it would take the mine a
long while to earn 4s. 6d. in divs., the shareholders
jumped at the opening. When Jumbunna puts up
the shutters, the last remaining excuse for keeping the
Wonthaggi (State-owned) mine from selling its large
coal to the public will disappear. Then, as the mine will
be producing on a bigger scale, cheaper work will
be possible, and Newcastle coal and shipping barons
will find they, too, will have to cut rates or leave
the Melbourne supply out of their calculations.
* * * *
A rare bit of news hit Melbourne with a
thud last week. This was that well-groomed W. H.
Croker had placed the Altona Bay colliery with a
group possessed of plenty of boodle. Hoover, No. 1,
when hitting up deep lead shows and picking up
quick bargains with Baillieu, turned Altona hard
down. But Croker clung to his mine, and if the
hundred-eyed is now in the place where Truth is
occasionally found, Croker has potted what is deli-
cately described as an Anglo-American syndicate,
with the Altona. There is talk about £3,000,000
being put up for the show should developments war-
rant. Even W.L.B. shook his head at the £2,000,000
Morwell brown-coal flutter, but W.H.C. never
balked at anv financial jump. Now that another
brown-coal Richmond is in the field, Melbourne gasps
a little easier, for it didn’t quite like handing itself
over to the syndicate that was getting Germans to
put up the stuff for the Morwell electrical scheme.
Whether they will fare better from the Altona com-
bination is a sort of Q.E.D. proposition.
Christensen’s Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), is
to have stampers rattling at once, and as the plant
doesn’t lack newness and style, and will have a
suction gas engine to hustle it to work, all that re-
mains to be proved is that the stone will justify the
plant. Christensen vows he has “a great many
thousand tons of payable stone.” The mine, as a
position claim, is on the right line of country, and it
has plenty of the well-known Daylesford mixture-
slates and quartz. But those fat flat makes which
have helped the North Nuggetty and the Nuggetty
to fame haven’t shown up in Christensen’s little show
yet. If that genial Scandinavian hits up profits out
of his western vein, he will surprise the knowing
Ballarat crowd, which has always turned him down
and boosted his neighbor, the baby Trafalgar.
“Chloride” : Now that the Oxide is floated
and the mine taken over, and the new company has
started work, one might expect a few of the bit-
terest of Sydney brokers to quit the old stories of
the London issue being a failure, and all the rest
of the foolishness. But, as a rule, these people hate
to cut a loss. When the first London negotiations
were turned down, the policy of vilification began.
Cables to Australia demanded the control for the
London end, and when that control was refused the
last London cable in the matter forecasted all this
bitterness. “If the offer is refused,” said the cable,
“the prominent Australian group interested in
London will give any proposition for the mine its
active hostility.” That’s only “business” when it
refers to £100,000; in a matter of £l5O it’s called
blackmail. But the public has come into the mine
pretty well in spite of all the noise, and will come
in very solidly if the developments live up to their
promises.
Brilliant Extended (Charters Towers) is
a close neighbor to the B. Deeps, and throughout its
history has proved a toss up, because of the irregular
values and the fact that two sections of stone on the
h.w. and footwall of a wide formation increase the
mining costs. Last quarter, to June 30, the Ex-
tended treated 17,860 tons for £31,082, and since
then 3090 tons for £3900 (255. per ton), and 2600
tons of tailings, cyanided for £ll4O (Bs. 9d. per
ton). Last month gave a profit of £266, or less
than 2s. per ton of stone crushed. Sinking is going
on with stone of poor quality showing, and this will
probably go on to a depth of 3000 ft., if the Ex-
tended’s financial resources hold out. The B.
Extended has a large area to prospect further east,
and recently acquired more ground in that direction.
There are 250,000 shares.
* * * *
Pfeiffer’s Day Dawn (Charters Towers)
reports a promising development in a block of
ground now being worked by tributors. The reef,
showing in the face of No. 1A level is 2ft. thick,
and carries heavy mineral. Fortunately, Pfeiffer’s
has a big area (40 acres), in which this reef can
be prospected. The co. will require fresh capital
and have to make calls to do much prospecting on
its own account.
* * * *
The Brilliant St. George (Charters Tow-
ers), has been doing very little work lately, beyond
some stoping from Kelly’s Queen Block boundary.
This shoot of stone in the Brilliant cross reef is
apparently continuing into the B. St. George, so the
directors have decided to drive No. 6 North level to
try to pick up the run of payable stone. Certainly
Kelly’s, next door, did not make a fortune out of
this cross vein, but a good crushing or two raises
big hopes, so both the B. St. George and B. Central
are vigorously prospecting for the capricious streak
of mineral.
Charters Towers has become a delightful
optimist with regard to deep levels since the Brilliant
Deeps ended 20 years of hard struggling, with the
discovery of a payable shoot of stone that “has not
yet shown its limit either in strike or dip.” But
the manager stated at the Board meeting: “At the
point of connection of the winze with the rise (above
No. 4 level), the reef is from Bin. to 12in. of well
mineralised stone on the west side, and 20in. to 3ft.
of well mineralised stone on the east side, in each
case showing free gold. The hanging wall shows
of stone, with splashes of mineral, with from
4ft. to sft. of formation between it and the foot-
wall stone. In the hanging wall reef the angle of
dip is much less than that of the footwalt reef, and
in all probability it will prove to be identical with
the hanging wall reef worked in Nos. 2, 3 and 4
levels considerably west from this point.” In those
old workings the reef was exceeding capricious in
both size and value. More recently No. 4 level was
good, but it required a lot of driving to pick up
the shoot of stone in No. 5. Fortunately it proved
to be highly payable within the very limited area
prospected, so shares took a lift from 15s. to 345.
on the assumption that No. 5 will continue to show
good form.
* * * *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) estimates its revenue
for July at £15,094, but working costs ( £14,020)
take the lion’s share, leaving a nominal profit on
working account of £1074. A small profit on a
small output of metal will never tide an over-
weighted concern, like the Great Fitzroy, over its
troubles, s 6 some of its representatives have been
looking at a big low-grade pyritic formation some
20 miles from Port Moresby (Papua). Since Mount
Lyell (Tas.) and the Many Peaks (Q.) made use of
pyritic fluxes, the value of this material has appre-
ciated all over Australia. A good deal of prospect-
ing and development work has been done on the
Papuan basic ore body. Ted Boden —a mining man
well known in North Queensland as the prospector
of Mount Thomas tin mines—was in charge of the
show for several months on behalf of a New Guinea
co., in which “Kanaka” Cowley is interested. The
Great Fitzroy output for July was 130 tons of cop-
per, 871 oz. gold, and 23550 z. silver from 3052 tons
of crude ore and 688 tons concentrates, but the mill
appears to have turned out more concentrates than
have been smelted. Last month 5014 tons were
milled for 1028 tons of concentrates (9.65 p.c.
6.51dwt.), a good enough return if costs were not so
high.
* * * *
Australian copper mines are making the
most of the favorable market. Returns for July
are:—
Copper, Gold, Silver, Approx.
Tons. Oz. Oz. Value.
Mount Morgan ..847 9,907 £101,016
Mount Elliott ..712 1,382 1,368 65,964
Great Fitzroy . .130 871 2,355 15,094
Great Cobar . .701 4,575 23,328 73,843
Mount Lyell ..427 576 29,685 37,197
2817 17,311 56,736 £293,114
The copper, taken at £75, is worth £211,275, while
the gold and silver are on the average worth over. £25
per ton of copper. According to German statistics
the production last year was 898,400 metric tons of
copper, and the average gold contents in the world’s
output, at £5 per ton, runs up a total of £4,492,000.
How much gold there is in old copper accumulated
before the art of separating the gold was known,
cannot be ascertained.
For July, Mount Elliott (Q.) produced 718
tons of blister, containing 712 tons copper, 13820 z.
gold and 13680 z. silver. Mount Elliott must have
“struck a double” when it recovered nearly equal
quantities (5 dwts.) of gold and silver per ton of
crude ore. The silver may be worth when it
comes to be sold, but sdwt. of gold is worth 205., for
gold from a copper refinery is nearly pure. Mount
Elliott never has anything to say about the purchase
of metal-bearing fluxes, so it has to be taken for
granted that the fluxes are barren. Metal-bearing
flux is a tempting bait to the smelter if it can be
purchased at a fair price. Great Oobar (N.S.W.),
for instance, is buying good smelting stuff, contain-
ing 6 p.c. copper, from the Budgeree mine, and for
years past Chillagoe has been taking low-grade
metal-bearing flux, from Mungana mines. The
adventurous Gippsland copper co. is taking fluxing
ore from far-distant Mount Lyell. Mount Morgan
rails its pyritic flux 140 miles.
A Westerner’s doleful impressions of Kal-
goorlie: “Developments are not so good as they once
were. Beyond question there is still a long life
ahead of 'most of the big mines; but under the
combined influences of reduced grade, increased costs
and diminished returns, the future looks like being
a good deal less profitable than the past. Most of
the cos. operating on the field are struggling with
poor ore. The most important mines are still found
among the ‘Golden Mile’ group. Of these, the Great
Boulder is the deepest, has produced the most gold
and paid the most dividends. This property may
maintain its present rate of profits for another year
or more, but having lost its lode in depth a gradual
decrease in earnings is inevitable. The Golden Horse-
shoe has undoubtedly been saved from disaster by
getting the underlay of the Boulder lode, but it will
be at least 18 months before it is able to take full
advantage of the windfall, and even then the benefits
it will derive are not likely to be nearly as great as
generally supposed. A serious contraction of the
pay shoot in the lower levels has brought down the
market valuation of the Ivanhoe by more than one-
half in a little more than two years, and as the pre-
sent bottom workings at 2420 ft. are about the
poorest yet opened up, the outlook is somewhat
clouded. Hopes are entertained by the management
that the mine will right itself in the matter of
values at greater depth, but in the case of the
Boulder no such expectations exist. The latter is
believed to have lost its lode for good, and its days
as a great gold-producer are officially considered to
be numbered. Another property in the same predica-
ment is the Kalgurli. For a long time an eastern
intrusion was a menace to its fortunes below
1000 ft., and about six months ago the shoot was put
out of its misery by being entirely cut off at the
1900 ft. level. New discoveries in shallower workings
have, however, enabled returns to be maintained at
a higher figure than was anticipated, and have added
considerably to the life of the mine. The same
thing applies to the South Kalgurli. Associated and
Boulder Perseverance have their existence assured
for a number of years, but dividends are likely to be
few and far between. Oroya Links is at present
almost wholly dependent on the Oroya North Block
for its profits. When the supply of ore in this part
of the property is exhausted it will probably cease
to pay dividends. Associated Northern and North
Kalgurli are let on tribute, and only the slightest
provocation, in the shape of higher wages or pre-
vention of the contract system, is needed to shut
the now unprofitable Hainault down. Of the other
mines of the field the Lake View and Star stands out
as a bright spot. At least 70 p.c. of the present
market valuation is assured for dividends, and de-
velopments lately recorded in the Hannan s Star
and Deep Levels’ sections of the property should
account for the remaining 30 p.c., if not more.
Other mining on the field is mostly hand to mouth.
Fenian, at Meekatharra (W.A.), treated
12,170 tons for £43,844 during the half-year ended
June. Out of this return £20,000 was distributed
in dividends. Manager estimates ore reserves at
80,578 tons, containing £273,448. Reckoning costs
at £104,750, this shows a net profit of £168,698.
Recent developments in the bottom workings show a
continuity of good values.
* * * *
Statement by It. S. Black, formerly attor-
ney for the now defunct Octagon syndicate, and now
general manager of Kalgnrli, in reply to widespread
assertion that the aforesaid syndicate was not look-
ing for quartz reefs at the time it sunk and
did a heap of other development at Kurnalpi: The
co. was attracted to the locality by the possibility
of the existence of payable formations, such as were
being opened up at Kalgurli. . . .That payable forma-
tions were passed through unnoticed may, I think,
be set aside as highly improbable. . . .Old reports are
not available, but, speaking from memory, the re-
sults of continuous sampling throughout the work-
ings was most disappointing.” With the utmost
goodwill The Bulletin adds that more work has
been done and more money spent at Kurnalpi, with
less result, than on any other field in the West. A
few more dabs may be unearthed here and there in
the future, but that is about all. For company
enterprise the locality seems to offer little scope.
Still, scrupulous and unscrupulous shindykates are
being formed, and in order to prevent fraudulent
practices and dishonest promoters, a censor of
prospectuses should be appointed, and legislation in-
troduced to prevent the transfer of leases that have
no prospects. Scores of companies issued pros-
pectuses during the Bullfinch boom, showing little or
no working capital, and although supported by the
flimsiest of expert reports they managed to rook the
public. A repetition of this sort of thing at Kur-
nalpi could be avoided if the State Government rose
to the occasion and took the steps mentioned.
Westralian Waihi closed the half-year to
May with £242 cash, £lO worth of sundry debtors,
a calling power of 6d. per share, and no mine. It
also claimed to have plant, buildings and stores to
the value of £8707. But pounds mostly become
shillings when the auctioneer is called in and every-
thing is sold for what it will bring.
* * * *
The great advance made in the construction of In-
ternal Combustion Engines has now been further
demonstrated by the fact of Petrol, Benzine, Kero-
sene and heavy Oil Locomotives being brought into
daily and successful commercial use. The machines
are' thoroughly reliable, and are cheaper in very
many instances than steam or electric locomotives.
Messrs. Ironside, Son and Dyclterhoff, of London,
have supplied a great number of their famous ‘ New
Century” locomotives nearly all over the world, and
their machines are even working continuously and
safely in “gassy” coal mines. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne, will be pleased to supply further par-
ticulars.*
-t-GF+ MALLEABLE PIPE FITTINGS. — Ask the
man who actually vscs Tubes and Fittings whether it
does not pay to get the best quality obtainable.
+GF-(- Malleable Fittings are true to size ; geome-
trically correct perfect threads. Every fitting tested
and guaranteed; over 4500 varieties. Suitable for
steam or water. To be obtained from principal hard-
ware houses, or from Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and Charles
Atkins and Co., Ltd., of Adelaide.*
Considerable saving of fuel in generating steam is
being effected by the use of reliable cocks and valves,
steam-resisting engine packing and jointing
material; also by protecting, heated surfaces to pre-
vent radiation and ensure transmission of heat.
Bell’s asbestos packed boiler mountings, “Belfry”
steam valves, “Dagger” packing, “Bellite” jointing
and asbestos non-conducting composition, rope lag-
ging and “Wadnit” mattresses can be obtained direct
from the makers, Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per cub.
yd., Stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. —a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stone-crusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* # L 3
Extract from The Insurance Record (London),
September 22, 1911: —“To have written insurances
for £5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident)
in a year, which was marked by _ the keenest com-
petition from beginning to end, is an achievement
which proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to
be reckoned with in every sphere to which its in-
fluence extends.”*
The essential features of a satisfactory pipe line
are capacity, durability, economy and adaptability.
PIONEER WOOD PIPE fills the bill. It is manu-
factured by The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, N.S.W.; and Footscray, Vic.*
Why is it that such people as the Murrumbidgee
Milling Company, Clyde Brick Works, railways, pub-
lic works, etc., "are spending thousands of pounds m
installing Wolf Superheated Steam Engines in their
works ? Because these plants are the last
word in power economy. Refer to page 3. *
* * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
*** * *
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
pipes for the new O’Shannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£lOO,OOO. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
* * * *
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayehs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh! hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain j weight j pocket transits j gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals , etc.
.- * * *
P atents —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.). Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*


C«id*ijrci«»**fc
HEERINGd
HEERING’S
CWEEHMEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
LADIES’ HAIRDRESSING &
TOILET ROOMS at FARMER’S
The new Hairdressing and Toilet Rooms,
opened by Farmer and Company Limited, on
the Third Floor, Pitt Street —a portion of
their new building—are so handsomely ap-
pointed, tastefully furnished, and perfectly
fitted with the most modern and up-to-date
Toilet devices, that every woman, we are sure,
will desire to inspect them.
There are 15 separate rooms, thereby ensur-
ing absolute privacy, and each section is
under the control of an expert, with a full
staff of skilled assistants. The departments
include Hairdressing, Haircutting, Shampoo-
ing, Singeing, Marcel Waving, Scalp and
Face Massage, Electric Treatment, Manicuring,
Chiropody, etc.
Appointments can be made by either tele-
phone or letter, and a specialtv is made of
Hairdressing for the Opera, for Balls, Theatre
Parties and other Evening Functions.
Temporary Entrance :
THIRD FLOOR, MARKET STREET.
FARMER’S SYDNEY
’PHONES: Central 72, 279, 2659 ; City 65, 66 ;
G.P.O. Box 497.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney. August 12. 1912.
My Dear Arini, —
Ex-Cabinet Minister T. H. Mackenzie
(M.L.) will not rest the soles of his High Com-
missioner boots in this town for a day or
so, on the road to his new billet. Mrs. Mac-
kenzie and two Misses go on also to
London, and the quartet will lie in
wait for a liner on the edge. of
Maoriland. One Mackenzie junior is . a
recently-fledged doctor in the grey old city
by the Thames. The High Commissioner
will have £2500 a year—not too much for a
billet which includes a big commissariat de-
partment devoted to the free feeding of hun-
gry young dukes, etc., who look in about
dinner time.
The Blake-Walkers who departed for their
native Yorkshire or thereabouts, via the
Zieten, came tripping through this State
from the North. He is a mining expert who
has some interests here, and she is a large
and handsome dame, much given to the rites
of hospitality. Mrs. Blake-Walker has often
mothered wandering Australians under the
comprehensive shingle of her large house on
the chilly wilds of Yorkshire. But she sank
into a seat, mopped her face, and gasped
out a brief cry of surrender a few days
before leaving this city. “Australians,”
sighed she, “don’t do things by halves —they
just kill you with kindness. I’ve only had
a few weeks of it, and if I didn’t get away
soon” The tail of this remark fell down
exhausted, as the lady’s extensive diamond
pendant heaved in remembrance of the Syd-
ney fatted bun.
Miss Jessie Ackermann, F.R.S.G.S., leaves
Sydney on Saturday for a glance at Vic-
toria. After stamping up and down that
fertile patch for a few weeks, this indefatig-
able Fellow of the Royal Scottish Geo-
graphical Society (hasn’t Jessie a long
tail?) will set steam for the tombs of the
Pharaohs. Then, tearing herself away from
the oldest thing in mummies, the lady will
saunter through the flies of Palestine, and
eat her Christmas dinner in Jerusalem. This
American-born lecturer, writer and persist-
ent searcher of the uttermost ends of the
earth, gets some of her dogged attention to
detail from a learned German parent—wit-
ness the double-barrelled “n” at the end of
her name. Her taste for ink is another
hereditary vice. One grandfather Acker-
mann was the original publisher of the
Strand magazine.
Mr. Robert Fotheringham, who mostly
lives in South Africa, paid a hurried visit
to this settlement the other day. His pre-
text was to renew his acquaintance with a
sister, Mrs. Pritchard Bassett, whom he
hadn’t seen since the days when she wore a
long shack of fair hair falling down her
youthful back. Fotheringham, who bubbles
over with humorous stories of the British-
Boer argument, is a son of a well-known
Dunedin (M.L.) dweller on a high mountain
—Mr. James of that ilk. Twenty years of
life in the Dark Continent—where he mines
for profit and shoots big game as a form of
outdoor exercise—have given the strenuous
Maorilander the gift of tongues. He can
address the wild elephant in fluent Zulu,
Kaffir, Hottentot or any other heathen lan-
guage. He drifted into mere English last
week, and booked his passage for the island
where Dunedin lurks on the tops of a thou-
sand hills*.
Mrs. Neville Mayman gave a farewell
evening party, to shake the hand of Mrs.
W. A. Holman, who departs for foreign
climes by the Osterley.
Society is suffering from a severe crick in
its intelligence, owing to the temporary
absence of Baronet Tom Lees. At present
he is attending Governor Chelmsford and his
lady in the maddening rush of Brisbane
banquets, etc. The N.S.W. polo clubs are
alleged to be hanging their mallets on a
weeping wattle tree, or the backyard fence.
A.D.C. Lees has announced his solemn in-
tention of “giving up” polo. I understand
he’s plumbing the conditions of local
labor, the price of pins and tape under Pro-
tection, and other deep studies of life in the
only section of the world that is worth living
in. 'This is preparatory to a future plunge
into the House of Commons.
Mayor Clarke, on Sunday afternoon, un-
veiled the Celtic cross which marks the
resting place of the late E. W. O’Sullivan,
one-time Minister for Works in this State.
The Waverley cemetery, where the great
majority are steadily growing into a city of
white marble slabs, was the place. E. W.
O’Sullivan had more reason, in his life, than
most public men to groan, “Defend me from
my friehds,” for his friends were legion and
not backward in imposing on one of the
kindest hearts that ever thumped under a
waistcoat. Perhaps the Trefle teardrop was
right on the bull’s-eye. The Minister for
Pumpkins remarked that E. W. O’Sullivan
“had built no monument of wealth.” In
the vernacular, the politician who had the
opportunities of the late E.W. and died a
poor man was too honest for his job.
It’s quite a shock to find out how slow
you can be, if you only try hard enough.
The veteran Time with the Scythe doesn’t
always do his lawn-mowing at a pace that
exceeds the speed limit, and makes the In-
spector of Public Nuisances take his num-
ber, even in the year 1912. Barrister Biss,
of Auckland (M.L.), being ordered a sea
voyage for his health, got his ocean boots
well up on his legs, during a 19-days’ lurch
across the wintry seas. He set sail from
Hokianga in a barque called the Hazel Craig
bound for Melbourne, and he fell upon this
coast as already stated, after a passage of
19 days. At present, he’s feeling his feet on
dry land in this hamlet.
Dr. Harold Owen, of Raitihi (Wanganui,
Maoriland), recently spent a holiday in
these parts. Where he found Japanese
miniature tortoises, alive and kicking, and
about the size of half a crown, I don’t know.
But Wanganui is said to be much impressed
with these trophies of the Owen travels in
Australasia. Perhaps he picked them up
in a Thursday Island alligator camp.
Mr. J. C. Parr, the golfing Mayor of
Auckland, is said to have landed in his
water-lapped city (after a jaunt in this
town), stuffed to his collar-stud with Sydney
municipal by-laws, which he swallowed by
the yard. For our part, he is welcome to
them. We know these by-laws, and they
are little or no use to us. If his Washup of
Auckland had swallowed our trams and our
belated railway time-table, even that would
have troubled us little.
Going back to Dunedin (M.L.) on Satur-
day is Mr. Glendenning,- of a well-known
woollen firm that hangs out its sign in that,
mountainous hamlet.
This deserted city lumps its bricks (bricks
and chops are the topics of the instant) and
swallows its ninepenny menu much as it
did a week or two ago. It used to be a six-
penny sustentation fund—that’s the only dif-
ference. Yet no flag flutters above the even-
ing hymn at State Government House.
Admiralty House has retired into brown
holland. petticoats. Its gentle dame trusted
her nicest millinery to the whirling roll of
H.M.S. Drake, and heaved on the bumpy
wet track to Brisbane at the fine end of last
week. The shutters are up at the Federal
Gee-Gee’s leafy nest round which the Cab-
inet game of “catch-who-catch-can, or turn
Him out,” recently raged with such fury that
no Gentleman Help could snatch his after-
noon off without first packing up all his
goods and possessions, so that if the eject-
ment notice came along he would merely
have to hire a cab and bid the cabby drive
unto the uttermost ends of the earth. I
hear, on the worst authority, that the G.-G.’s
solid gold-plated staff developed such nerves
(while the residence hung on a hair) that
they would suddenly break down in hysteri-
cal sobs if they wandered beyond the iron
gate where the red-striped swaddy guards
the gas lamps. Then would the mighty
Quilter or the long Burnham presumably re-
quest the nearest policeman to take him
home on a shutter to his beloved Museum
for frayed bones on the shores of the cove
who farms Garden Island—or some other
Jabberwock which only mothers and police-
men understand.
A well-known polo man is alleged
to be engaged to a dark-eyed Society damsel.
He is considered a “rattling good fellow,” in
the language of th* cult. The girl’s mother
is said to be again*t the match, though his
bank account is of the large and healthy-
kind. There has been much ruffling of .pin
feathers amongst young doves who rang up
to offer their congratulations, and caught a
Tartar. “I deny everything,” snaps Mamma.
Miss Olga Monie, who is engaged to the
wealthy Lebbeus Hordern, is a pretty young
thing still in the teeny age. She’s not with-
out a neat silver lining to her purse, for
grandfather William Monie made consider-
able cash as a railway contractor, and, I
fancy, the girl will get a slice of it for her
dowry.
The bridal plumage of Miss Gladys Bow-
ker (who marries Mr. Jim Gordon on
August 17) will be almost submerged under
a foam of Duchesse lace. The girl’s pretty
head is liable to be veiled in the usual fine
mesh, with a snow-drift of Duchesse on its
border. Her sisters, Marjorie and the little
blue-eyed schoolgirl Barbara, with Miss
Gordon, are the chosen bridesmaidens.
Groomsmen Harry Stephen and F. Dowling
will lend their aid.
Miss Nancy Sargood, a daughter of the
Wahroonga Sargood, is engaged to Mr. Jack
Pockley. The girl is an offshoot of the Vic-
torian Softgoods Sargood family (this is
almost as hard to say in a hurry as Peter
Piper picked a peck, etc.), and her fiance is
a son of Dr. and Mrs. Antill Pockley, also
of Wahroonga. The Pockleys dabbled in
the sea, and the original shellback of the
tribe was in command of coastal vessels
that hugged these shores in the long ago.
Minister for Lands Beeby demonstrated
the uppishness of the mutton chop in a de-
lightful speech the other evening. The occa-
sion was the Speaker’s party. By or-r-de-rr
of the imperturbable Mr. Willis, the ladies
of the Inter-State Congress of Gnats in
Council dashed off to meet the gigantic
brains of Parliament House at seven of the
clock. The early evening snack was swal-
lowed in feverish haste. The tousled locks
of the political dames fell in agitated fronds
round their ears, as they tore their hats off
their heads (by or-r-der-r of the Guardian
of the Speaker’s Gallery), and sank into
their breathing area of hard leather divan.
The Tetrarch of the seats was a burly
official of great equator round the waist,
and with the aggressive front of a profes-
sional thrower-out. He met the later arri-
vals with undisguised hostility. (I speak
feelingly, having trembled on the verge of
being heaved down three steps for daring
to sit at the wrong end of a meek back seat,
and he couldn’t have looked at me more
coldly if he had been the Walls of Derry
and I a Home Rule movement.) “Move up
there! Move up, I say—remove your hats
—re —move—your —rats —’ats !” I braved
this stormy sentinel’s wrath for about 20
heart-beats of fierce indignation, and took a
humble back seat near the door. This would
have given an easy exit, and prevented a
mountainous climb over the bunions of the
Mothers in Council. The Speaker’s eye
wandered my way, and I trembled. I felt
that I was liable at any moment to be sus-
pended for the remainder of the sitting, or,
perhaps, disqualified for life. Members
shuffled in their seats. Then I remembered
the fate of Mr. Wood, and panted humbly
to the remote end of a dreary leather rack.
Every arrival who followed was harassed
by the same person clothed in his little brief
authority and other things. He bullied the
invited guest, while the ladies’ gallery-
hatted and free to sit as it liked —flung
down a supercilious smile at the haystack
heads in the Speaker’s Gallery.
Much may be said for the autocrat who
sat like a graven image of fine, healthy-look-
ing clay the other night under the horsehair
fixings of the Speaker’s wig. Mr. Willis
has snatched order from a local Tower of
Babel. Four years ago neither Labor nor
Liberal made the slightest attempt to prive
a decent hearing to any member who hap-
pened to be on his legs in the Assembly.
Now all is changed. “Or-r-de-rr!’ says a
mysterious voice from the Sphinx in the
high-backed seat. He blew his nose once at
his party to the ladies, and one felt relieved
to know that there was anything so human
as a handkerchief and a suspected sneeze
concealed about that Stony Silence in the
Chair.
The easy manner and able matter which
Mr. Beeby hurled at the Assembly re bricks,
day labor, mutton chops, and the struggles
of the Suffering Rich to lock up great areas
of wheat land made a great impression on
some of the inter-State Tory dames. “Dear,
dear,” breathed a voice in my ear, “and is
that really one of the Labor people? Why
he —er —looks quite a” Probably the
word “gentleman” stuck in her throat, for
she swallowed hard and choked. 1 smote
her on the back and averted a tragedy. “I
thought they all wore red ties,” said an-
other dame with long wisps of hair strag-
gling over her not-over-clean collar. “Quite
a nice-looking person,” said this garrulous
lady, looking in vain for the cloven hobnail
in the Beeby toilet. “Dear, dear me! And
that’s one of your shocking Labor Ministry
—he doesn’t look like it!”
Municipal Librarian Chas. Bertie has
just thrown another memorial of Old Sydney
off his chest. Angus and Robertson have the
matter in hand for a Christmas book at pop-
ular prices. Artist Syd. Ure Smith has
illustrated this literary snack of ancient
story —as ancientry goes in a country where
the paint is hardly dry yet on the door of
the first gaol.
Young Sydney, which herds together for
its own immediate amusement (not being
concerned in the three R’s) amidst the fall-
ing shingles of old Sydney, gave the artist
a lively time. Cabbage stalks, blue metal
when handy, and other weapons of attack,
mixed with infuriated argument amongst
rival “pushes” as to whether the bloke was
drorin’ the residence of Snooks or the Billy-
goat of Mrs. Smack-Stinger, tore round the
tottering camp-stool of Bloke Ure Smith.
He took ambush one fine day, behind a high
fence, while skirmishing parties raged up
and down an adjacent lane. Through a
crack in his laager he was hurriedly snatch-
ing an impression of a venerable cottage in
its last agony of baby decay, when a whoop
and a tomahawk fell over the fence. “Hordes
of youngsters,” says Smith, who escaped
with his life in one hand and his presence of
mind in the other, “climbed over the fence
and kept up a quick fire of small pebbles.”
The artist admits, with a blush, that he was
rescued by an old woman armed with a
clothes-prop and descriptive language. “Git
out, yous ’ounds,” said she. “Wot’d yous
say if yer own father was a-settin’ on that
stool tryin’ to drore a chimbley, an’ another
push came up an’ drov’ ’im from ’is perch?
Git out!”
The Chelmsford lady suggested the hold-
ing of the recent annual meeting of the Free
Kindergarten Association in the premises of
some local children’s yarding paddock. The
Golden Fleece Kindergarten, up Chippen-
dale way, was chosen for sinister reasons.
In its primitive evolution from a dead and
coffined boot factory, the building or shed
(which has been bought by the Free Kinder-
garten authorities) is liable to do sudden
things in wet weather. To show the general
public how badly the money was needed for
a new building, the over-lords of the Free
Kindergarten schools invited all and sundry
to sop up the annual report in the apart-
ments of this same Golden Fleece. As luck
would have it, the rain ceased to descend in
this city on the day of the meeting. The
harrowing spectacle of Aide Dumaresq float-
ing off down some backwash on a chair-raft,
while general-secretary Ellen Desailly
plunged in with a life line to save Lady
Chelmsford’s elegant shoes from drowning,
did not, therefore, eventuate the other day.
In the wet season, a capable person has
to rise up in haste and open the flooded
Fleece doors so that the stream can flow
through, and the “kinder” are packed up
and returned to their homes. Will some
kindhearted capitalist arrange to die as soon
as convenient, and leave a portly legacy to
the School of the Sodden Fleece?
Re the recent assembly of Inter-State
Gnats in Council, one recalls the fact that
Mrs. Jellyby was a strenuous pioneer in the
art of managing everything except her own
home. If five out of every six National
Council dames are too busy to brush their
hair —the affairs of the nation having
dragged them out of bed by a ragged fore-
lock —how can they find time to descend into
the arena of the undarned sock, and the par-
tially raw chop, and the more or less un-
buttoned offspring.
A few weeks ago Sydney’s new Anglican
Dean Talbot made his society debut (as a
Dean) at a children’s party at Bishopcourt.
Amongst the bright ideas that come to most
of us, a month or so after the stunning effect
of their earlier usage would have saved the
situation, is the following: Professor
Leacock thought of it first, and set it
down in “Literary Lapses.” He had in his
mind the long array of martyred curates,
middle-aged rectors and brand-new Deans,
who are impounded by their Bishops for
blind-man’s bluff and “ring-a, ring-a rosy.”
“Allow me, very gratefully but firmly, to
refuse your kind invitation 1 have now
reached a time of life when, to have my
eyes blindfolded and a powerful boy of 10
hit me in the back with a hobby horse, and
ask me to guess who hit me, provokes me to
a fit of retaliation which could only culmin-
ate in reckless criminality. . . .May I say, in
conclusion, that I do not consider a five
cent penwiper from the top of a Christmas
tree adequate compensation for the kind of
evening you propose.”
The veteran, Adelina Patti, looking won-
derfully well-preserved over the edge of a
fan, was recently snapped by the London
Daily Mirror photographer. She was in
the act of receiving the honorary freedom of
Swansea (whatever social dividends that
may be worth) for her “beneficent services”
to local charities. The most moving spec-
tacle in the picture is the generally crushed
aupearance of the Mayoress of Swansea,
aged 13 years. She. had retired as far as
possible under the brim of her hat, and was
furtively studying the length of her growing
legs. A juvenile Mayoress confronted with
the awkward age of stocking, a Celebrity
and a bouquet (to be handed to the Cele-
brity) ought to come under the notice of the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
small skirted mammals.
“Carmen,” at Her Majesty’s the other
evening, broke nothing more extensive than
a sob of sympathy for Don Jose Coates,
when he embraced an elderly looking charmer
in the public square in Seville. Age in
woman is a crime that should be suspected,
not seen. Calve may be 20 years older than
Vera Courtenay, the homely “Carmen” of
Friday night’s performance. But Calve’s
physical beauty of soft curves and olive-
satin skin will carry her fiery temperament
over another 10 years, bar accidents, as a
captivating minx. Calve, without a single
stage accessory, gave this town a potted
concert sample of her “Carmen” on the
bleak Town Hall platform. The result was
a condition of mild frenzy on the part of
every male person in the audience. Cisneros,
by the bounty of the gods a superb daughter
of Juno, made Carmen an enchanting hussy.
She saw the. Courtenay appearance, and —
alas, those pipe-stem legs ! —from a box on
Friday night. No doubt she enjoyed it.
The fierce osprey, waggling its tail above
the. female head at the opera, has driven
various male citizens in Her Majesty’s stall
seats to the brink of woman-slaughter.
“Madam, will you kindly take off your hat,”
said a furious man the other evening. No
answer from the decollete in front. “Madam
—I insist on your taking your hat off—l
can’t see the stage.” A silence that fell with
a loud thud on a large collection of bare
bosoms was the only answer. “Madam —
take that confounded hat off!” The owner
of the osprey turned a freezing glance
towards the attack. “It’s not my hat.” said
she, “it’s my coiffure.” Those who tell the
tale relate the sequel. A maddened citizen
is now searching the law in all its minor
details for a clause that will classify
coiffures as “wild beasts that can be shot
on sight.”
Paling and Co. are responsible for a sud-
den rush of music to my head. If a cover
would sell the “Jolly Boy’s Dream” (labelled
One Step or March), this effusion ought to
run into 14 editions. “A Jolly Boy’s
Dream” is a boiled lobster rising out of the
sea on his hind feet to claw an alarmed
boat-load of three small niggers. “Noel,” a
tuneful waltz by Fannie Ryan Henry, and
“Stray Leaves,” by Fred Werner, escape
with a caution, as inoffensive additions to
the musical library of the flapper.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
The Melbourne municipal elections, this
year, will be fought on two questions chiefly
• —tramway extension and the creation of a
Greater Melbourne Council. Nearly every
district wants to build its local tram right
away with loan money, knowing full well
the Greater Melbourne Council, or some
similar authority, must take them all over
by 1916, when the Tramway Co.’s conces-
sion expires. It’s a keen business scheme,
but a trifle too thin. Many of the proposed
lines will not pay for lubrication of the
axles, and none of them would pay properly
till Melbourne gets its promised power-
supply, which, like Christmas and the Japs
and the general Resurrection, is coming.
There were 12 cities, seven towns, one
borough, and one shire making up Melbourne
and its 625,000 people on June 30, 1912.
Chiefly for power-supply and transit facil-
ities, the sooner Melbourne is unified the
better. Then will the citizens get better
lighting and less costly means of getting
home before dark


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
h
JEWELLERS.
HARDY BROTHERS’ RENOWNED WATCHES
Are Famous for
RELIABILITY AND DURABILITY
I
X
/
s
M
Highest Grade Heavy Hunting Silver Lever, will stand hard wear,
£4.
Similar Watches with Open Face, suitable for Country Wear,
£2/15/-
Gunmetal Open Face Watches, £l/5/-; Highest Grade, £2/2/-
Every Watch is Carefully Examined and Guaranteed an Accurate Timekeeper.
Selections sent to the Country on Approval.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON OFFICE: 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS.
NEW
COOKERY BOOKS.
COUNTRY LETTERS ANSWERED INTELLIGENTLY
A GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY, by A. Escoffier,
of the Carlton Hotel, London
THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK, Practical
Gastronomy and recherche cookery, by C. Herman
Senn
(Inter-State Postage on this Book is 3/2.)
THE INTERNATIONAL COOK BOOK. Over 3300
Recipes, gathered from all over the world, with
complete menus of the three meals for every day in
the year, by A. Filippini (formerly of Del-
monico’s). (1911)
MRS. BEETON’S FAMILY COOKERY. New Edi-
tion, with colored plates, 860 pages, very strongly
bound
COLONIAL EVERYDAY COOKERY, 930 selected
and tested recipes—390 pages
COOKING BY GAS, 270 pages, cloth bound
THE NEW IDEA COOK BOOK, for Australian and
New Zealand housewives
SOYER’S PAPER BAG COOKERY, 1911 ..
Mrs. MACLURCAN’S COOKERY BOOK
PRESBYTERIAN COOKERY BOOK
GOULBURN COOKERY BOOK
EVERY LADY’S COOKERY BOOK
THE WORLD’S DRINKS, and how to Mix them ..
RECHERCHE ENTREES: A collection of the latest
and most popular dishes, by Senn ..
RECHERCHE LUNCHEON AND DINNER SWEETS,
by Senn
RECHERCHE SIDE DISHES, Hors-d’(Euvres, Sand-
wiches and Savories, by Senn
POTATO COOKERY, 300 ways of preparing and
cooking Potatoes, by Suzanne and Senn
HOME-MADE BEVERAGES and American Drinks ..
DAINTY FOODS, by Mrs. Wicken
DIETETIC COOKERY BOOK, with notes on Health
and Food Values, by Dr. Carroll
NEW BOOK ON INVALID COOKERY: For Nurses
and Home Use, will be Published by us in Sep-
tember
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL C°L r -°.
(opposite queen
VICTORIA MARKETS)
476 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
a
■ym.
(Il7xi.M f
C’l
STECK
pianola piano
i?
K7fjyl.HU
s^®
SMv
tvfmrt
THE OPERA SEASON HAS NOW COMMENCED.
With the STECK PIANOLA PIANO You Can Enjoy Your Favorite Operatic Selections All the Year Round
NO less than 1514 operatic selections are in the Pianola repertory. Think of what a wealth of
mes:cal^ enjoyment such a collection represents. Here are the old-time operas sucli as
?? d nr ucia * dl Lamm ermoor” ; the modern successes, “La Boheme” and “Madam
Butterfly ; all the Wagnerian operas from “Rienzi” and “Flying Dutchman” down to “Parsifal.”
«ti e « er ' po Fi U Faust” and “Trovatore,” and even the new operas of the current year “Tales
of Hoffman,” “Girl of the Golden West,” “Hansel and Gretel.” * ’
the light operas, too: “Quaker Girl,” “Girl in the Train,” “Nightbirds,” “Balkan
rrincess. tet even this vast amount of operatic music represents only one-tenth of the total
number of selections in the Piaaiola repertory. In addition, there are all the Classic, the Light
Music, the Popular, the Dance, the Song Accompaniment, the strictly pianistic pieces and the
orchestral transcriptions.
11 Surely no one who is fond of music, and values music in the home, can afford to overlook the
great enjoyment that the Steele Pianola Piano will bring to the entire family. Not only will it
give you the pleasure of listening to all this beautiful music, but the even greater fascination of
personally producinp the music is yours if you have this wonderful instrument that has become
the most notable piano success of the day.
11 Wouldn’t it be worth your while to investigate this instrument? Wouldn’t it seem strange that you,
who never played a Piano, could do so at once? Let us send you a Catalogue of the Steck vianola
Piano. We will send it free if you will write and ask us for Catalogue R.
Moderate Monthly Payments When Desired. Liberal Allowances on Old Pianos.
«•»
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
88 Bundle Street , ADELAIDE;
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
London, Berlin, New York, etc .
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
MJ vt rni CC^man


0
MEN’S SMART SHIRTS
Unsurpassed in Style & Service
At Farmer’s.
Farmer’s Tunic Shirts express the latest ideas of
the World’s Leading Makers, both in style and fit.
They are cut just as you would wish —full, but well
fitting and true to size.
Those we quote are of beautiful quality Cambric,
and have soft fronts, with stiff cuffs and neckbands.
They are in a variety of smart, striped effects, showing
Mauve, Blue, Green and Black stripes on White
Grounds, and can be had in all sizes, thus ensuring a
perfect fit for every figure.
Price 716.
EVERYTHING A MAN NEEDS
IS BEST BOUGHT AT FARMER’S.
FA RM E R’S SY P.HEy.
FOR YOUR WEAK NERVES,
POOR APPETITE,
BROKEN REST,
SICK HEADACHE or
CONSTIPATION,
CLEMENTS TONIC
is a Curative, Unequalled Medicine.
Nurse Catherine Korting, of
Brunswick, Victoria, writes :
“Fourteen years ago as a nurse
I first used Clements Tonic, and I
have prescribed it times out of
number. I have seen people bless
the day they heard of it.”
ALL CHEMISTS 8 STORES SELL IT.
EARLY
SPRING.
ATTRACTIVE Models in Spring
Millinery and Ladies’ Costumes —
advance styles from Paris and
other Centres of Fashion —are now
being shown by us in our extensive
Showrooms, and our stocks are fully
assorted in all Departments.
Some charming examples of Coats
and Skirts in Chiffon Taffeta —both
Shot and Plain —Charmeuse. Bengal-
ine, Taffeta, Eponge, Whipcord Suit-
ing, Cloths and Serges, Race and Even-
ing Coats, Lingerie Blouses —have been
opened—these have been specially se-
lected for our Spring opening by our
London Buyers, and are very exclusive
designs.
To Ladies desirous of securing
Spring and Race Costumes to Mea-
sure, we strongly advise the early plac-
ing of orders, whilst our Workrooms
are not overtaxed. Customers may
write and reserve their place on our
List, thus ensuring prompt delivery of
their Dresses or Costumes.
BallTWelch
Pty., Ltd.,
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 12, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Caulfield, on Saturday, drew the Fullers,
and after them the smart setters. Her Ex.
wore a big shady hat, and an aide sported
wattle in his buttonhole —two certain signs
of spring. Mrs. Grimwade came out of her
winter shell of furs in white flannel, with a
brand-new ruffle at her neck. A girl in lilac
cloth also wore a ruffle —a perishable thing
of tulle with pink roses in its folds. The
new brand of ruffle is a baby thing, and
makes an effective frame for a pretty face.
But then every .face follows a fashion. I
saw an aged woman with a tanned and
wrinkled countenance wearing a daring mix-
ture of cerise and purple in her hat. Mrs.
John Forrest was under a Beefeater hat with
amber-headed hatpins. Peter Mcßride, just
risen from a bed of sickness, was muffled to
the ears and fussed over by handsome Mrs.
Peter and daughter Kathie. Ivy Clarke,
buried in an ostrich hat, wore coster pearl
buttons on a black velvet dress, and tripped
about with Mrs. Fred Payne. Russell
Clarke’s wife showed a peaked little
white face among tan feathers. General
Gordon looked spruce in grey flannels. Mrs.
Sylvester Browne made an appearance in
ermine after a spell of rest cure. Norman
Bayles decorated himself with the usual
cornflower. (The buttonhole is coming into
fashion again, much to, the delight of old-
time dandies.) ' Mrs. Alan Currie and Mrs.
Clive Miller led a regiment of white cloth
and white-silk tailored women. The former’s
hat was fitted with upstanding white wings.
Nancy Grice gave a tea party in the big
white-and-gold room below the new grand-
stand. Fashionables are already making a
detour from the birdcage, through the back
lawns to the new building; but the more
breathless members of society will perish on
the stairs if the V.A.T.C. doesn’t instal a lift
in the tower.
Lady Fuller, these days, attends to open-
ing ceremonies in a capable way. She made
the necessary remarks for the four-storeyed
Druids’ wing of the Women’s Hospital.
Gaud Mayor DaVey then had a say, and
some of the doctors followed on. Secretary
Mrs. Earle and other committee women were
crowded on the flower-heaped balcony, and a
group of nurses hung angelically over the
railings of the fourth floor perch.. When all
the remarks had been made, her Ex. took a
small gold key from the case reverently held
by Aide Curwen, and the procession moved
off to inspect the building. The fashionables
in the courtyard began to climb the fire
escape with a pretty display of ankles, and
an enraptured band gazed after them and
turned out the music in a sort of trance.
The News Boys. stared gratefully from the
Town Hall galleries, last Wednesday, when
the Best People of the metropolis perspired’
and bounded for their financial good. Gov-
ernor Fuller (just back from his Queensland
holiday), the Fuller lady, and Melba were
the centre of the smart turn-out this year.
The vice-regals only arrived at 10 o’clock.
His Ex. looked white and tottery beside his
glowing,, pink-frocked wife, as they marched
across the floor, attended by a flock of Helps.
They halted under the balcony, and a small
News Boy, laden with a bouquet, advanced
with his best latest-edition manner. But,
before he reached her, the Fuller lady turned
tail and fled into the open, with the puzzled
and anxious lad at her distinguished heels.
When she reached the centre of the room,
and could be seen by all, she turned and
smilingly accepted the flowers. A roar of
appreciation from the galleried members of
the craft rewarded her for her prompt
thoughtfulness. The skied youngsters
couldn’t possibly have seen the little cere-
mony if it had been performed in the place
chosen by the committee.
When the Government House party had
settled down, Melba swept in, arrayed in a
magnificent gown of grey, veiled with pink,
and took the floor. She curtsied to the
Fullers, and the News Boys aloft save an ear-
splitting yell of delight. Then the show
lady’s set of rose girls tiptoed in like a polite
ballet. They were veiled in pink chiffon
from top to toe, and attendant men in ordi-
nary evening dress unwound about six yards
of pink mummy wrappings, and disclosed 12
society blossoms. Auntie Phipps was No. 1.
Admiral Bridge’s dark-haired daughter was
enveloped in a vivid shade, and fair Esther
Fairbairn contented herself with the faintest
suggestion of rose color. Vanda and Roma
Clarke mixed their hues, and achieved a good
effect. Sylvia Ffrench and sister Weenie,
Beryl Fanning, Miss Henty and Miss Grif-
fiths were other members of the bouquet.
Then they nroCeeded with the dance arranged
by Jennie Brenan. Melba stood in the centre
holding the chiffon strands, and drew the
fluttering dancing girls in from all points of
the compass.
When the turn was through, the other
sets took the floor, while would-be waltzers
sat in the crowded balconies and tapped their
cold feet impatiently. Mrs. Fairbairn’s
witches were worth watching. The dresses
were black velvet and black hats, with
a black cat perched on the shoulder. Mrs.
Geoff. Syme led a Bagdad set. Each girl
wore a different-colored veil, and Mrs. Geoff
herself was in amber and orange. A man,
wrapped up in a carpet or something, and
armed with a long spear, chaperoned the set
. q the procession . * A L ft * r ’ the parade) the most
important people went to supper, and the
shivering slappers-no, flappers—thanked
them stars and descended foi- a rollicking
two-step before motor time The dance was
expensively diessed and commendab y
crowded; but the tancy-dress spirit of gae y
was oppressed with the dead-weight of cere-
mony, and it never recovered. There was
no repetition of the delirious “Kismet” rev-
elry‘ ~ . ..
Last week, a most _ respectable and well-
dressed house sat valiantly through a pro-
gramme provided by the pupils of the Mar-
shall Hall Conservatorium. As usual, each
pupil got her little furore—a wild and iso-
lated exhibition of enthusiasm by a
clique of friends; also, each duly col-
lected a more or less expensive load
flowers, according to _ the financial
standing of mamma, or auntie, or grandma.
jliig artistes tried various brands ot genu-
flection or salaam at the end of their respec-
tive performances. The supporting orchestra
Y as a goo . d amateur combination, and flautist
Amadio rippled several nice accompaniments,
He bas dwtmgmshed himself by refusing a
Melba offer, ilioughunly a youngster, he is
doing so well here that the season s break
WOU M n °t be profitable.
The Advertisement Ball, in aid of the
Girls’ Training Home, is being carefully pre-
pared on approved fashionable lines. Miss
Madden, Miss Armytage and some society
flappers are shooting about at an amazing
ra te and planning the campaign. Grace
Palotta, Blanche Browne and Leslie Holland
have signed articles or something, and en-
gaged to supervise costume matters every
morning, while the Gaudy Mayoress sits in
her blue rooms in the Town Hall and reels
°ff wisdom, advice and encouragement. The
cause is a good one, for the Home aims at
Producing competent Mary Annes and Mary
wives.
The glory of the Glaciarium carnival began
at the , door, where the silver prizes glittered
111 a g^ ass case. Every inch of the side seats
was occupied and only those in fancy rai-
“eat wer £ aU »wed to cut their way across
t^ e But there was a lack of enthusiasm
aboat tb ? teams - Society was b ,Y sy Bie
*ettor the News Boys dance, the following
m ? bt ’ an .d could not spare time to fuss over
s ? t 8; 80 cam l to S ass that only Jwo teams
glode rau ? d the floor, untfl they were
Ramped by the general inrush _ of gliders,
h md , a aad Lily Williams, in frocks of
black edged , wl^ b white fox fur, did trick
™ a rrar g YY tb p obbie Jackson and Cyril
McGillicuddy; and raked in some orizes. One
llllarioas p % on ’ dr , eBsed as a Dago bar . rel
maddened the orchestra by playing
his infernal machine. The monkey in attend-
ance was a youth who hid his identity under
a . mask and fur. An O’Hara girl glided
gracefully and without blushes in blue un-
veiled trousers. The little De Bavay, as a
piece of Dresden china, looked fragile and
ready for pneumonia. One of the dashing
Caulfield sisters got in an advertisement for
Australian wines, whilst a grass widow
courted galloping consumption by exposing
gome of her dimpled back through a wisp of
tulle. She quickly gathered a throng of skat-
j n g cavaliers; whereat deserted girls sniffed
enviously, and went round with girl-chums
f or partners. One woman, garbed as a
nurse, carried her pet terrier, dressed as a
baby. The shadowy waltzing was done in
the dim, romantic glow of amber lights, with
the staring white electrics firmly shut off.
Mary Proctor, astronomer, is a very small
la dy, Wltb tbe scholar’s stoop and a habit of
walking with her eyes cast down. At the
Athenaeum, this lady of the stars, enveloped
m a frivolous-looking pink cloak, has been
m S btly sending a thin, clear voice to the
most remote corners of the hall. Most of
ti P e she is a shadow standing at the
foot of el l or “ ous laa ? e ™ P ictu / es of . P lana l s ’'
suns and stars * Plctures of part of the
ve ry dead moon are accompanied by softly-
regretful remarks from the little guide: ‘The
“ oan Y auld be aa , lde al place from which to
study the stars— if we could only get there,
aad “ ai fge to breathe in an airless region,
The , le cturess let fall some interesting re-
™arks aboat colored moons, and showed imag-
inar I y . Pictures of earth landscapes a.s they,
Y ou -l d J ook m the P ar ple or green light of
Jupiter s moons. But Australians need not
-T°« r ney far to see the counterpart. . The
parple au tumn twilight in Tasmania is like
- a , luxurious bath of soft purple light,
drenches the whole landscape,
Medico Edward Ryan contemplates matri-
“ony, and Leonore O’Leary is the poetically-
named girl. There is at present a matn-
momal boom amongst s-me of the brass
Plates in Collins-street. Three doctors prac-
tise in the Ryan building. The second of
th e house group, Dr. Tom Murphy, set the
engagement fashion with Miss Noonan. The
I third > J? r - Grantley Shelton is still a bache-
L me af writing; but the epidemic may
carry b im any moment,
Edmund Smith, brother to Bruce, is in
mourning for his wife, who died with tragic
suddenness just as their new house at Tooralt
had been completed. Mrs. Smith helped in
the planning of the place, which stands near
the river, and has some 15-year-old oaks
amongst the native gum trees.
Mrs. J. 0. Williamson, who, with infant
Tootles, has been inhabiting that stone in
flower, the Astor ( Sydney), since her return
from Europe last March, leaves again tor
warlike parts next Saturday week by the
Medina. She and Mr. J.C.W. will meet in
Rome.
Gentleman Help Stewart-Richardson met
and attached an heiress on the voyage back
to the family stronghold in Perthshire, Scot-
land. His elder brother, the baronet, married
money when he got Lady Constance, whose
hobby was dancing in trivial draperies in
public.
Interesting to hear Mrs. William Green,
high-priestess of the Dancing Faith, comment
on what she scornfully styles the “modern”
craze for physical culture.. __ When she first
came to Melbourne, some 35 years ago, she
proclaimed herself a dancing-mistress and
teacher of body culture, and was duly regis-
tered as such. She taught the “deep breath-
ing” that she had learned as a child in the
famous school of old Mrs. Conquest. The
art of breathing, and all forms of physical
development by graceful movement are in the
dancing game. Are not the strong legs and
toes, the supple waist and the waving arms
of the dancer examples of physical culture?
asks Mrs. G. And echo answers, “Why,
certainly.” Children enter the dancing-
school pale and flabby, and come out of it
as hard as nails and bright as buttons.
Melba left Coombe Cottage, with school
children pelting flowers after her, and most
of the loyal Lilydale villagers, tempestuously
cheering round her motor. It is said that the
cottage servants wept during the farewell
riot. The songstress, it seems, looks for-
ward to meeting her son in London, and is
quite prepared to regard his new bride with
fond maternal eyes, although the news of his
marriage may have been a bit of a shock at
the time of its arrival.
.Tust before her departure, Melba was
observed outside the Orient Co.’s offices, sing-
ing a grand opera solo of directions to an
audience of two luggage chauffeurs. It was
a spirited performance. One of the cars
had a fine top-dressing of fat leather bags
strapped to bursting point, and an interesting
square box, covered with a vivid pattern of
yellow and black butterflies in American
cloth.
People say that Lady Cowdray, mother of
Lady Denman, is proving a good friend to
Australian singers and musicians. She is
very musical, and entertains largely at her
London house, two doors away from author
Gilbert Parker’s place.
The Y.W.C.A. is patting itself vffiere its
dress hooks together, and talking about the
efficacy of prayer in finance. For 10 whole
days it prayed at forced draught for £25.000,
while fashionable women sped round the city
in motors and on foot, extracting the last pos-
sible penny. The result was £12,500—a
goodly sum, but only half-way to the desired
goal. It looked as if the prayer had only
been half-strength after all- But when Faith
was mopping its brow and putting its hair
straight, the balance, and a bit over, came
down in one metallic rush from the generous
family of the late Connibere, of Toorak.
Their splendid contribution was £15,000. A
new. girls’ club building will be built with
the money. The other cash will serve to buy
land and furnishings.
The Fuller lady rounded up a meeting in
the Town Hall to consider the Arts and
Crafts Exhibition, which is to happen in the
new supper room, in the spring, now being
heralded by optimistic birds. Overseas ex-
hibits have been promised in advance by
the Carmichael lady, who still retains her
interest in this part of the world.
The Arts and Crafts have just success-
ful negotiated a Pottery Exhibition. Val-
erie Correll, a Melbourne girl, showed some
of her own pottery modelled without the
wheel. The Findlays, two brothers who use
the wheel in their work, put in some beauti-
ful local stuff. Mrs. Ochiltree lent valuable
examples which were dug up in Algeria;
and Mrs. Harrison Moore also had an envi-
able bit of work on view. The club in-
dulged in a tea party on the show day—an
innovation which added greatly to the crush
and crowd. Tannin is certainly a wonder-
ful draw. (Don’t blame me for that! It
happened accidentally.)
The Bohemianism of the male members of
the V.A.S. was expressed more in manners
than in costume, at their recent Bohemian
evening and supper. The supper was a go-
as-you-please, and the men got in first.
When a parcel of women arrived on the
scene of refreshments, they found some 40
men in possession of all the standing and sit-
ting space around the table, and ne’er a one
paid the least attention to their sistern in
art, who stood afar off sighing for something
to devour. When the bread and Cheese and
beer had mostly disappeared, a deputation
from the hungry ones approached the feeders,
and begged a few crumbs from the Bohemian
table. The spectacle of a lot of the weaker sex
lined against the wall, waiting to he asked
whether they had mouths, should have been
marked as a good subject for a picture.
On one of the new beds in the new wing
of the Women’s Hospital is fixed a tablet
inscribed “In memory of the late
Wouldn’t the name alone be better? A sick
patient might suffer from lying under some-
one else’s funeral inscription. A very sick
one might mark her disapproval by refusing
to get better.
The fact that the Quamby, a residential
women’s club, is applying for a bar license,
is a reminder that many fashionable women,
after shopping expeditions or society fatigue
duty, take a whisky or brandy to buck them
up. At private dance suppers, and in good
cafes, seasoned matrons boldly call for some-
thing in their soda, and the society girl fre-
quently follows the alcoholic lead. Hence
the necessity for the bar.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—*
Dr. Burston, who left Melbourne for us, and us for
the Territory, is back again from those strange
parts where the white man is supposed to fall in-
continently dead unless he has a herd of cheap
savages to work for him. The doctor looks wtill. A
melting gleam in the eye is the only change dis-
cernible in him. It (the gleam) is explicable .by the
fact that he is engaged to Miss Culross (a grand-
daughter of the late Joseph Fisher), and intends
shortly to espouse her. She is one of the smartest of
our recent debutantes.
Two schoolgirls, of Kingscote, Kangaroo' Island,
decided to make a bit during their winter holidays.
Being sensible maidens, they neither attempted to Mar
money off the face of the landscape by the aid of.bridge
or the racecourse. Their subtle scheme was to don
their oldest clothes, buy two guns and a cargo of
cartridges, and go rabbit- and wallaby-slaying. At
the risk of being termed a fibster —-or worse—l am
emboldened to voice the rumor that they made £l4
out of the pelts alone. Nor did they shoot any
human being, or so much as wing each other during
the whole glorious and unusual outing.
Colonel Le Mesurier is in the North Adelaide
Hospital, recovering from an operation. Imperialist
Owen Smvthe has just left the same institution. His
lengthy stay there was. due to his accident ojf some
months back.
Mrs. T. C. A. Magarey died at Blackwood on Mon-
day. She was one of the founders of Minda —our
Private Enterprise resort for congenital : loons.
Furthermore, she was a niece of the hue Allan. Camp-
bell, M.D.,- philanthropist and one-time M.P. 1
The Adelaide Hunt Club met at Strathalbyn last
Saturday. This is the Leicestershire, so to speak, of
our drag-followers : —the finest thing in the way of
hunting-country that we have to show. And so 'an
immense number of horsemen pursued the odoriferous
herring with flying feet and nose-halloas (our local
alternative to view-halloas, my dear).
The Adelaide bachelors gave a ball in the Glenelg
Town Hall on . Tuesday night. Gazing upon these
gallant youths I was irresistibly reminded of the
worn old gag that was so worked to death by the
vaudeville artists of Imperial Rome, viz., “Morituri
te salutant.” Our bachelors saluted everyone with
a cheerfulness ; which failed 'utterly to . suggest that
their domestic freedom, and so many other : things
that man holds dear, were in imminent peril, if not
actually on their death-beds. Wonderful, indeed,
is the buoyant optimism of youth, health and celi-
bacy! Black , and red poppies and' trails of aspara-
gus fern were the decorations. There was no crape.
Mr. and Mrs. Evan Leggatt are here on a
brief visit from Sydney. She was our Miss Shylie
Moore.
' The' Lyric 'Club entertained Mrs. de Cisneros with
a musical party—in much the same spirit as the
hospitable ’busman entertains a fellow ’busman who
has a day off, by taking him-for a drive. Miss Kath-
leen O’Dea handled the ribbons —I mean sang.
Mrs. T. R. Scarfe gave a Children’s Fancy Dress
Ball at Marryatville on Friday evening.
Miss Nancy Giles was married early in the week.
She will take up her abode, as Mrs. S. McLennan, in
the dust-swept regions of the West Coast. ■
Mrs. Lea, of The Hermitage, Robe, and her
daughter-in-law, are at the South Australian, Miss
Amy Lea is in the North Adelaide Hospital, and
they are on the spot,, or thereabouts,, with the object
of cheering her up.
As I mentioned, last week, Mr. Percy Bowman’s
luck is right out. Monarch did worse than lose the
big Melbourne race; he lost his. life. Backers will
grieve with the owner, for deceased was a good
horse, and a trier all the way.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


CHATEAU TMJNH
SM
~>‘i
m
ft
*
'«r~\
Wm
J 9&
■
44
2®S
M
fee*
a
$$
■r
SJSS3
“S
4
%
%
%*
tejjs*
12
,
v: v
•*
n
m
*a
N
»■
- ...
*S
-
•;• > • ■
ttm
V
yy
Wm
'
: '
■■■•>
. . . :
-
ws
‘Mli
; a
■•••• ;■’
ms
KX
'■' A.'*
, V •■■ . . >“1. ;
•; -, • • • ■••-.■ - • ,
. v
• -S<
Ks
ftrc*£K!*K
ms :
:
Ml
_
__
CHATEAU TANUNDA THREE STAR BRANDY
is a pure grape spirit, distilled in the very heart of
the South Australian vineyards. From the moment
the delicate juices leave the presses to undergo a perfectly
natural development until many years afterwards, when they
are thoroughly matured by time, they remain untouched by
the hand of man.
Only one quality of CHATEAU TANUNDA
BRANDY is placed on the market—Three Star—guaran-
teed to be thoroughly matured. Large stocks of brandy,
from 15 to 20 years old are kept at the Chateau for blending
with the one quality sold to the public.
Sold by All Leading Hotels
and Stores.


ħ
Don’t Trifle
with a Cough.
TAKE
h
NCIERfEMULSION
ĥ
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6-
There is positively nothing equal to Angier’s Emulsion
for coughs, bronchitis and all chest affections. Not only
does it heal and strengthen throat and lungs, but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion and builds up strength. For upwards
of twenty years Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by the
medical profession and used in the hospitals. It is the standard
approved remedy for coughs, bronchitis and all lung troubles.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ħ
STOP IT!
A neglected cough or cold may lead to serious
bronchial or lung troubles. Don’t take chances, for
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds
affords perfect security from serious effects of a cold.
Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every bottle guar-
anteed. Price, 1/6 and 3/-.*
Too much night work, head aches, roll and toss,
can’t sleep? Enjoy your rest, take Stearns’ Head-
ache Cure. One wafer does the work.*
h
DEttYER’S SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
will give you fullest support and protection. It
is comfort itself in wear, having no irritating
steel springs.
Single, 17/6; Double, 22/6 ; Others from 3/6
We Fit You Exactly. We are Specialists.
Abdominal Belts for All Needs. Experienced
Lady Attendant. Call or VVrire.
DENYER BROS.,Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THERE IS HOPE.
But, as Mr. Wade remarked, “the country is not
ruined yet.” —Daily paper report.
A USTRALIA: “ Don't be impatient. You may
manage it yet between you."
The value of a -State Parliament is very
great. At 3.55 p.m. on August 1 the attend-
ance in the S.A. Assembly was: (1) Blun-
dell (talking on the Address-in-Reply), (2)
Chasson (apparently listening), (3) Pon-
der (dozing), (4-5-6) Verran, Ritchie and
Bodey (reading), (7-8) Works Minister
Butler and Angus on the Treasury Benches
(in earnest conversation), (9) Smeaton
(writing). Mr. Speaker was quiescent,
and seemed to be asleep.
Memo, for the benefit of whom it may
concern: The N.S.W. bill for interest on the
public debt is now just £406,821 per annum
more than it was two years ago.
Twice during the policy debate in the S.A.
Assembly the Treasury Bench was left
vacant by Ministers, and each time ex-
Premier Verran and a * colleague slipped
across the Chamber and took their seats in
its sacred cushions. They were “shoo-ed”
off by the rightful owners directly they were
noticed.
D. Storey, M.L.A., in the N.S.W. Censure
debate:—
I am opposed to the proposal for a Greater Sydney.
I don’t want another Parliament in this country.
Surely we have Parliaments enough in Australia.
Too many, Davy, too many. And as there
are 50 (or so) tinpot Parliaments in Syd-
ney (apart from the one where Davy makes
an unnecessary hole in the atmosphere), it’s
about time Greater Sydney knocked 49 (or
so) of them out.
There have been recriminations in the
S.A. Assembly concerning the use to which
the State motor-cars have been put. One
side says the wives of Ministers used to go
buying drapery and vegetables in them, and
the other avers that they have been em-
ployed for political propaganda purposes.
Threats to move for exhaustive reports are
being shouted in all directions.
“Henry Ilorsecollar” holds forth: —
Reading a paragraph in last week’s Bulletin, I
learn the shocking fact that my contemporary,
“Henri Singemoine,” is a non-unionist. He says he
went to a printer with a job, and the price quoted
was £45. He thought the figure excessive, and
went to other printers, and the price was still £45.
Then it dawned upon him that he was up against
the Master Printers’ Union, and he hunted around
till he found a loathsome “scab,” who did the busi-
ness for £3O. Much good may it do him.
THE SPIDER AND THE FLY.
Capital is still leaving the country—in
other words, the export of gold to pay for
the insane surplus of cheap-labor imports
goes on gaily. At the end of June, 1912,
there was £4,866,459 less coin in the Aus-
tralasian banks than at June, 1911, while the
liabilities to depositors alone had increased
by £4,953.718. The cash reserves dropped
in 12 months from 25 per cent, to 22 per
cent. No wonder the spendthrift Govern-
ments find their loans waterlogged.
Premier Watt’s scheme for aggrandising
Melbourne by holding an alleged Empire
Exhibition there has come to naught. He in-
vited the co-operation of the other State In-
sects, but, though all are willing to help in
dishing the Commonwealth, they would all
rather die than put sixpence in another In-
sect’s way. So with one consent they
handed Watt the snowball. That politician
has now postponed the scheme. In other
words, he finds that the “time is not yet
ripe.”
There are 40 members in the S.A. Assem-
bly, and 31 spoke in the policy debate just
finished. Ex-Speaker Jackson was most
garrulous, with 3| hours, and Bodey most
brief, with 10 minutes. Of the nine who did
not talk, one was ill in bed. one was in the
Speaker’s chair, and one is 86 years old. In
the Council, ex-Agricultural Minister Wil-
son preached for 5i hours on the Address in
Reply, his harangue sprawling over two
afternoons. It was not stonewalling, but
just a few scattered thoughts strung together
for the edification of his brethren Four
hours is quite an ordinary little chat for
him.
“Palmerston” —his shriek :
The Australian Government has clone nothing
toward land settlement in the Territory as yet. No
regulations extant —everything waiting for the land
classifiers, who certainly know the difference between
clay and cheese, and as certainly are all good Labor
sympathisers. Of course the Labor party did not
invent the “spoils to the victor” cry_, but foolishly
enough I expected it to be superior to the old tricks.
AVith others I made application for copies of land
regulations to the Minister for Infernal Affairs and
his staff, and they sent me all the available literature
on the subject—which is a list of gold mining leases
in the Territory, mostly in the names of Yee Tang,
Ah Hoy, Ah See. Ah Chinn. Yam Ham and Gee Itee
Fun; so that it"looks as if the Infernal Affairs De-
partment were pulling my leg with a page of the
Canton directory. They’re a beautiful lot, these
nation-builders.
A HELPING HAND.
In some ways the tariff was ineffective, but pro-
duction had increased more during the past three
years than ever before, and one reason for importa-
tions was that the work could not be done here with
the present capacity. —Minister Tudor, in desperation,
to a recent deputation.
A USTRALIA (in pained surprise): "Well, I
often thought they had a lot in common,
but I'm jiggered if I ever thought he’d
descend to pushing her barrow for her!"
“Johannes Smithianus” writes:—
I notice in the summary of the provisions of the
Referendum (Constitutional Alteration) Amending
Bill, introduced into the House of Representatives by
Bird-o’-Freedom O’Malley, a provision that: —
“Returns are also to be made by newspaper pro-
prietors, setting out the amount of matter in con-
nection with any referendum inserted in their news-
papers, the space occupied by such matter, and the
payment received or due for it. ‘Matter’ is to mean
advertisements, articles and other matter intended
or calculated to affect the result of the Referendum.”
Now, I would ask Bird-o’-Freedom O’Malley what
he expects to gain by this folly. If newspaper pro-
prietors were required to tell who paid for the
articles, or to state how many feet or yards of effect
they were supposed to have produced, it might be
interesting. Without that the idea is merely a silly
and useless and cantankerous annoyance.
“J.” :
Talking of drastic legislation, it would be hard to
beat the new Watt measure to protect the West
Melbourne docks and environs against the petroleum
danger. It is mentioned that “this Act includes any
regulations made under this Act,” after which it was
quite unnecessary to explain in a footnote that “the
Bill has been so arranged as to leave administration
to Orders in Council.” This really means that John
Weary’s chief subordinate may make regulations
authorising him and his subordinates to do as they
please, inside the four corners of the Act. And the
area included in the said corners is vast indeed.
“The inspector may enter any site on land or water,
may search for rock oil, Rangoon oil, Burma oil,
kerosene, petroleum,” and naif a dozen other more
or less explosive substances. While he is so searching
the occupier of the premises must give him such
assistance as he may require; and he must, if re-
quested, decant one or all of the drums or tins situate
thereabouts, and sell the inspector samples at market
price. A license, the terms of which will be fixed
by regulation, must be obtained by anyone keeping
or transporting petroleum, kerosene, and the other
dozen or so oils, provided he keeps three gallons or
more! Seeing that practically every householder out-
side the cities and the larger townships uses kero-
sene, and buys at least a tin (over four gallons) at a
time, Attorney-General Dry Brown, who sponsors this
Bill, is disclosed as a fair whale in the matter of
authority-seeking. It will be interesting to learn
how the House of Rich Landlords will view this
“harassing legislation” and “gross interference with
the rights of citizens.”
THE RECEIVER.
Mr. Tudor’s argument, that the tariff should not
he altered until the workers received more and the
employers less, was met by the fact that im-
portations crept into Australia from countries in
which employers received more and employees much
less than Australians. —A recent deputation to Cus-
toms Minister Tudor.
FOREIGN FATMAN : “But I always understood
that Australia was inclined to turn capital
away, and to reject as unwelcome any"
LABOR GOVERNMENT: “ Tut, tut, my friend!
You've misunderstood us all along. ’Tain't
so much the sweatin' I object to as ’avin' it
done on the premises. Must think of our
good name, y’ know. Ta-ta! Call again
with more as soon as you like."
It being the rule in Australia that the
two rich and populous States shall, as far as
possible, divide all the good things between
them, a naval base is to be established at
Westernport, close to Melbourne, and another
at Port Stephens, near Sydney. So, if the
penguins come up cursing from the South
Pole, the fleet will be handy to meet them.
And if the Chinese or Japanese come down
from the North, either some 1500 miles of
coast must be abandoned to the invaders, or
the fleet must fight so far away from its forti-
fied harbors of refuge that the chance of any
cripples getting home after a disaster will be
practically nil.
As a variant of the Aus-
tralian baby-bonus proposals,
Maoriland’s free maternity
homes are panning out very
well. Since their modest in-
ception, some time back, 4608
brand-new citizens have arrived
per medium of the institutions
at a cost of fl 17s. 6d. per
head. Compared with other
systems of State-aided immi-
gration, this is dirt cheap. At
the opening of an additional
home t’other day, Maoriland’s
Sudden Premier claimed for it
a superiority over the bonus
scheme. And it certainly has
this advantage: it makes sure
that the two (or more) persons
most concerned get the best
that is going in the way of attention and
comfort, which isn't a corollary of the
bonus. Andrew Fisher’s £5 may be spent
in drink and the infant smothered.
The Victorian Chamber of Manufactures
has decided to form a company to assure its
members against loss under any Workers’
Compensation Acts that may become law,
said co. to consist of 50,000 £1 shares, which
the members will take up. Thus does Pri-
vate Enterprise give its own assurance com-
panies the go-by and butt into co-operation.
“Moutere”: Political parties in Maori-
land are getting more mixed than ever. J.
A. Millar, who led the big Seamen’s strike
before Ballance came into power, is reported
to have been sweethearting with Massey’s
mild reactionaries, and Tom Mackenzie,
leader of the Liberals, used to be with Con-
servatives like John Hall and Harry Atkin-
son. The man who took over the job of
steering the more democratic-looking of the
two parties is said to be the sole politically
surviving opponent of the principle of one-
man-one-vote. So everybody is where he
wasn’t.
A deputation from Geelong waited re-
cently on Customs Minister Tudor, and
asked that the duty on dressed timber should
be raised from 3s. to 6s. per 100 super ft.
At present, the local timber dressing indus-
try is protected only to the extent of 6d. per
100 super ft., the duty on undressed timber
being 2s. 6d. Owing to the inadequate tariff,
the Oriental Timber Corporation, which
established mills at North Geelong at a cost
of £200,000, has had to. shut up shop. The
company commenced importing undressed
logs from Siberia, and manufacturing them
into boxes, flooring boards and sundries, thus
giving employment to 200. Geelongites at
union wages. But recent increases in the
standard of remuneration make it impossible
to compete with the Norwegian employer,
who pays his hands two peppercorns a week
or thereabouts. So the co. is considering
the question of establishing mills at Vladi-
vostock, where, bv employing the meek and
inexpensive Russian, about £lO,OOO per
annum may be saved. The Geelong depu-
tation was not encouraged to hope that its
reasonable request would be acceded to,
because, of course, to do so would interfere
with the glorious doctrine of fiscal agnosti-
cism. It has been decided to “sink the fiscal
issue,” and apparently it doesn’t matter tup-
pence to the Labor Government if 200. or if
it comes to that 2000, Australian workers
are drowned at the tariff-scuttling ceremony.
The British Admiralty is
now understood to sit up late
every night figuring out how
many big fighting ships it has
by it. Hardly one first-class
vessel dares to leave the North
Sea stadium, in case the. brief
and awful scrap for which it
has been built may be all over
before it has time to foam and
smoke to its allotted place in
the line. England was almost
torn in pieces the other day
because an anxious Government
wanted to permanently with-
draw some big ships from the
near-by Mediterranean to
strengthen the North Sea de-
fences. At time of writing,
there are two nightmares star-
ing at the worried nation whose
downfall Homer Lea has just
predicted in “The Day of the
Saxon.” The first is the rumor
that Germany is building a
secret squadron of nine battle-
ships ; the second, Admiral
Beresford’s statement that
crews are not available for the
eight additional battleships, and
that there are not even enough
men for the active service fleet
alone.
Chief Justice Madden, of Victoria, has
knocked a large aperture in the anti-sweat-
ing features of Factories Act, by declaring
that a Chow laundryman may launder his
own linen on his business premises after
hours. Wun Eye. when flattening his own
dicky, is not toiling within the meaning of
the Act. What follows? There won’t be
a shirt or (i collar in Wun Eye’s laundry that
won’t be Wun Eye’s private shirt or collar
within the blather of the Act. If a Chow
laundryman may utilise the full strength of
his establishment to iron his own shirt, why
may not a Chow cabinet-njaker do ditto to
make his own chair? If John Madden’s
view is good in law, an amendment will be
necessary, declaring that no Chow laundry-
man be allowed to be possessed of a shirt
within the confusion or tangled vocabulary
of the Act.
SAIREY HAS A SPASM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As to the remedies which have been adumbrated
we believe they are based on just that lack of know-
ledge the acquisition of which is essential if any real
solution is to be found for the present condition of
things. The proposal for a prohibitory export duty
on foodstuffs is based no doubt on the assumption
that there exist “rings” of manufacturers and mer-
chants who are able to keep up prices in Australia
whilst selling cheaply abroad, and that restriction or
prohibition of export would force a reduction of
prices. No evidence has, so far as we know, been ad-
duced in support of the existence of such combina-
tions. In any case, an export duty such as is pro-
posed could not deal adequately with such bodies ; it
has often been shown to be economically unsound in
principle and ineffective in practice; and at best
could only be a temporary expedient.
—S. M. Herald, 6/8/’l2. '
“Wot, Betsy! Is it you t Come in!
Come in, and have a cup of tea:
I'iit just a-goin’ to begin....
An’ thank you kindly, Missus P. ...
I’m worrited and wexed this day,
And with good reagion, Lord forbid !
The prices as I have to pay
For meat is sich I never did!
“A leetle drop, then. . . .1 deplores
The lack of knowlidge wot exists!
It brings the patients round our doors,
A-callin’ names, and shakin’ fists !. ...
Your health, my dear!....l can’t abide
The iggerance I see around,
I ses: It’s bad, but let it slide,
For wot solugion can be found?
“They talks of dooties, Betsy dear!
Confugion to them all, ses I!
The very mention makes me queer....
I’ll dooty ’em! Well, let them try!
W’y are we born into a Wale?
W’y is it the cowcumber’s curled?
The hand wot weighs the butcher’s scale
Ain’t it the hand that rules the world?
“As Missus Harris ses to me —
Them patients keeps on seeing things.
No matter, Sairey, who they he,
Don’t you believe in trusts and rings! •
Nor more I will, though spoke in fun —
That’s wot they always call it, Bet!. ...
An’ drat all jokes, for there are none
That lambs forgive, nor worms forget!
“Dooties — (llic !) —deed. AV’y, ain’t we found.
The horrid, bragian things no' good?
In principle they’re most unsound —
Oh ! w’y ain’t Freetrade understood ?. .. .
So in—(Hie !)—fective, Betsy, t 00!....
Besides, who wantsh cheap meat out here?
AVell. .. .here’s my best resp— (Hie!) —to you.. .
This phys—- (flic !) —’s good for spasms, dear !
“No more restr — (Hid) —shun, Betsy mine....
Dooties, indeed !. . . .AA”y, it’s a sin !
Trade without fri —(IHc !) —shun is divine....
Free going out and coming in!
AVot if the price do rise, and rise—
Isn’t our profits safe and big ?. .. .
Patients’ delugions I despise. . . .
Here's looking at you, Betsy Prig!”
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


mzi
“WsrtiN
■ v
The charm of the sweet, rinoino-,
melodious TONE of the superb
BECHSTEIN PIANO appeals
to the highest musical authorities
of not only Australia, but of the
whole world.
THE BECHSTEIN always has that even, dis-
tinct tone which has earned for it the great
superiority it enjoys.
IN CONSTRUCTION only the highest class materials are allowed to enter THE BECHSTEIN, and the men
employed are masters in the art of Piano Building.
U/ie BECHvSTEIN
has a place m many palaces,
mansions and the leading musical
homes in Great Britain and
Europe—places that just the ordinary piano could never win by merit like THE BECHSTEIN.
We cordially invite you to call and inspect this Superb Instrument. We have various models in Grand and
Upright styles. We Sell on very easy Time Payments, and will take your old piano in part payment.
Catalogues and Price Lists post free on request.
W. H. PALING CO., LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. #
And at NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA.
S THE FAVORITE?
*
,
wmi.
■H
'
.
o
St.'S. .
3181
THE ENSIGNETTE
CAMERA OPEN
READY FOR USE.
This Camera Fits Your Vest Pocket
AND IS SIMPLE TO USE.
Not a bit of bother about it. Loads in
Daylight with Roll Films, and folds up
so that it takes up no more room than
a Cigarette Case.
/Made of Metal, Good Lens, Snapshot
Shutter.
Price Complete,
Takes Pictures 2y" x \y 2 " that can
easily be enlarged to post card size.
Take your own Pictures
of your kiddies with an
551-
ENSIGNETTE” CAMERA.
Write for Particulars and Specimen Pictures—
I
lIP
The Leading Photographic Merchants in Australasia,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland (N.Z.), Wellington (N.Z.).


International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
SCIATICA.
HUSBAND DERIVED GREAT BENE-
FIT FROM DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS, SAYS PYRMONT
LADY.
“I have had recourse to Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills,” says Mrs. W. Cox, 187
Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont, “for Indigestion
and Constipation; also for very bad hernb
aches and pains in the back, like a knife
thrust, when breathing. My husband has
also taken them for Sciatica, and he finds
thev are the only things to give him relief,
after trying many other remedies without
effect. He would get such bad attacks that
stooping was impossible, and we had to put
his boots on for him. He is quite well now,
but he always has them handy, and to regu-
late the system he occasionally takes a dose
on retiring at night, which keeps him in
perfect health. You may use this for any
purpose suitable.*
Missing Friends.
] F MARIA BROWN, widow of Lawrence Brown,
* late of Charters Towers, Dairyman (deceased), or,
in case of her death, her representatives, will com-
municate with the undersigned on or before the fifth
day of February, 1913, she or they will hear of
something of advantage, and any information con-
cerning her or them will be thankfully received.
Dated the fifth day of August, 1912.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Solicitor,
Supreme Court House,
TOWNSVILLE, Queensland.
OHN LENNON, late of Bourke, please
communicate with Mrs. Lennon, Moonbie
Street, Summer Hill. Something to your
advantage. Perth paper please copy.
BROWN. —Information is required as co
George Kenny Brown, who formerly
lived at the Crescent, Clontarf, Dublin, Ire-
land ; was afterwards in the Cape Mounted
Police, and later in Australia. Reply to
ARTHUR GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor, 121
Stephens Green, W. Dublin, Ireland.
ħ
KUPPER
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices: Dowling' Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
According to the accounts cabled the day
of the flight Flynn was hopelessly outclassed m his
scrap wifh Johnson. Johnson’s was ceding.
He was unmarked. Flynn w as cut to ribbons He
failed to hit the champion, and the champion hit hm
how and when he liked. Now Sttkd
and quite another tale is told of a badly ratuea
Johnson hanging on to Flynn’s arms to prevent him
hitting, and howling to the referee for a win on a
foul. In fact, according to the written yarn, had
Flynn kept his head quiet and cool he br a very
cheerful chance of winning the % ht - Jo £" s °£,®
“dazzling speed” is not mentioned, but Flynn s
effective wallops are, and much stress is laid on
Johnson’s trick of catching his opponent by the
biceps and squeezing them. This is such an alto-
gether different tale from the cabled account that
one can only conclude that all Yankee newspaper
men are liars and the truth is not in them. Pro
bably Flynn walloped Johnson clean out of the ring,
and y mad'e him jump through the, ropes for safety ,
and Flynn escaped from Johnson s vicious upper-
cuts” by biting Johnson on the leg, and taking to
an aeroplane while Johnson cauterised the wound ,
likewise, there never was any fight; and, moreover,
the whole tale was a plot for a moving picture show.
In conclusion, there are no such persons as Johnson
or Flynn, or anybody else, and everything is nothing,
and Nothing is anything. Q.E.D. All is Rats!
Two days before he fought Flynn at Las
Vegas, New Mexico, Johnson signed a contract with
T. S. Andrews, representing Mclntosh, of Sydney.
He undertakes to start for Australia in September,
and here fight two colored brethren named Langford
and McVea, in any such place as Mclntosh may
select for the job. Promoter and bruiser signed to
put up a deposit of £2OOO each, to be forfeited by
either party that breaks the contract. Johnson is
to receive £6OOO for his scrap with Langford, £3OOO
for knocking Sheol off McVea, and £lOOO for ex-
penses ; also, three first-class round-trip tickets from
Chicago, Illinois. In writer’s opinion Johnson is
being grievously overpaid, and £lO,OOO for such a
trip is a case of sweating the struggling promoter.
It is high time a Wages Board was appointed to
come to the relief of the downtrodden promoter.
The large “black smoke” is bound by the terms of
his coatract to bash at Langford within six months
of July 2, and to box McVea within a reasonable
time afterwards. Langford has been on the trail of
Johnson for a long while, and now it looks as though
he had caught the gentleman. For, once that £2OOO
forfeit is posted, wild horses and wilder devils won t
keep Johnson away from Australia. He would swim
to the blessed place rather than forfeit £2OOO. So,
if Mclntosh can get Johnson’s money put in a safe
place, Johnson is a sure thing.
* * * *
So, at last, Tahmmy Burns has really
had a fight. It was at far-away Saskatoon, a one-
horse township in Canada. On Thursday night last
week he heaved 13st 31b. of ex-champion into the
ring, and collided with Bill Ricards’s 14st. 91b. of
aspiring youth. Ricards is described as being the
poorest fighter imaginable, below even second-rate
form, and Tahmmy played with him for five rounds.
In the sixth he assumed a business-like expression,
and, wading in, floored Billiam twice in short order,
.once for nine seconds and once for eight. Whereupon
the Law said Ricards had no earthly hope, and the
riot must stop. It was bad enough while Tahmmy
was outside the ropes, but now he’s inside ’em, he’ll
crow till the cows come home.
* * * *
The McCoy-Read scrap at Sydney Stad-
ium on Saturday night was a charming function
None of the recent heavyweight engagements could
compare with it for interest. Nothing but the un-
expected happened. Read appeared to have the ad-
vantage of weight and to be much the stronger of
the two. But from the very first it became ap-
parent that McCoy was a finished artist. He used
both hands impartially and freely. It was imma-
terial to him which way he hit, and the kind of
blow that suited his purpose best was the kind he
sent in—chop, jab, swing, or straight drive, as the
occasion demanded. They were all equally easy.
Read is about the most handsome boy that ever
stepped into a ring, and he fought a very gallant
battle, but he lacked the skill and ruthlessness of his
better-trained opponent. To be a successful pug one
must have no hesitation in continuing to bash a man
on a bad spot, or to wade in with both hands on a
half-fainting opponent. When Read had McCoy in
a bad way, he hung back instead of rushing in to
quench the smoking flax; but when McCoy got a
couple of bad ones in, and had the Sydney
youth rocky, he got in hard, and did his
worst to break the bruist-d Read. For the
first three rounds Read was a blizzard of
blows, a rushing cyclone of straight drives, with
all his weight behind them. McCoy seemed to be
almost overwhelmed, and was blown like a dead leaf
round the ring. Every time the gong went it seemed
to be just in time to save him from getting some-
thing more than he could healthfully assimilate. It
was not till the tail-end of the third round that
McCoy got any chance at all, and then he smote
Read with a sledgehammer on the nose. In the
fourth Read was not quite the bounding tiger he had
been, and McCoy began to sit up and take notice.
He suddenly discovered that the best defence against
Read’s rushes was to be the attacking party. But
in the fifth he stopped two fierce invasions with his
jaw in quick succession, and the big end of the
purse was Read’s for the taking. Read lacked the
ruthlessness to do it, and the gong intervened. When
McCoy came back he was refreshed, and made the
battery very even. Then he started to pile up
points rapidly, and rattled Read with successive
uppercuts, till, in the ninth, he apparently had his
enemy done. He went in to kill, and Read drove
hard and straight in a desperate rally, and then it
was McCoy who was all but out. In the 11th McCoy
came right out of his shell, and walloped Read for
all he was worth, but failed to knock him out. Read
began to act solely on the defensive, till, in the 14th,
he was so badly shaken that the clang of the gong
was all that saved him. The 16th saw McCoy make
another big effort. Read beat him off, pushed him
off, and referee Arthur Scott tore him off, but he
went after Read like one possessed. McCoy had be-
come the cyclone. But Read weathered it, and just
before the gong he smashed McCoy on the jaw, so
that the cyclone settled down to a gentle zephyr.
The 17th and 18th saw McCoy making wild assaults
and Read putting up great rallies. But it was evi-
dent that McCoy was the stronger. He was still
afraid of those smashing drives that Read always
seemed to be able to send out; so he fought cauti-
ously. But he was the aggressor. In the final
round everybody looked for a hurricane. But
McCoy’s boiler had also given out, and it was the
least exciting round of the game. When the referee
pointed to McCoy, the cheering was sandwiched
with a heavy layer of hooting at what the ignorant
section of the crowd regarded as a bad decision.
The interest in Sydney’s League Rugby
on Saturday centred around the match between
Eastern Suburbs and Newtown, and that between
Glebe and Annandale. Nobody seriously expected
Annandale to have a chance against the team with
the gory-colored guernsey; while the last time
Eastern Suburbs met Newtown it went under. So
if Newtown could repeat that trick, there would be
only two points between the premier club and Glebe
in the race for the championship of the year. And
for a while it looked as though Newtown would
'repeat the trick. The first half saw it leading with
six points to nil. On resuming, Eastern Suburbs
grew somewhat frantic, and made desperate efforts to
score; but the Newtown defence was very solid
indeed. The teams were now playing 12 aside, each
having had a man ordered off. The game was three
parts over before the premier team broke its egg with
a penalty goal, and, the shell once broken, the team
came right out. Its attacks became magnificent in
their thoroughness, and the last part of the second
spell saw a battle that was tall and strong. Twice
Newtown all but scored, and fortune swung in the
balance. But the discipline of the premiers tri-
umphed, and when they added two converted tries
to their penalty goal, Newtown’s three penalty goals
were out of it, and Eastern Suburbs had practically
made its position safe, with 12 points to six. The
Glebe-Annandale struggle had a streak of the unex-
pected in it, too. Annandale made a verv bold
bid for victory, and staggered Glebe and the audience
by leading at half-time with three to nil. It was a
staggerer. Annandale continued to unwind passing
charges that worried Glebe sadly, although the backs
always managed to keep the goal from being entered.
Then, with a desperate effort, Glebe got going, and,
after a series of struggles, rolled over the line and
added the extra, and led with five to three. Annan-
dale tightened its belt, and dragged its belltopper
over its ears, and, getting its head down, let
loose some more oassing charges, and tried to bullock
over the line. But the Butchers were too accustomed
to heaving dead-weight about. Glebe followed up one
of these repulses, and, pushing right through, added
three more points. Annandale played more desper-
ately than ever, and had Glebe in trouble over and over
again, but one of the ’Dale men sustained a fractured
rib, and had to retire, leaving his struggling team
short-handed. Then hope faded right out, and the
plucky team had to be content with keeping Glebe’s
victorious score at eight to three. Which, in the
League game, is almost as close as close can be and
not be a draw. There were other games, in which
North Sydney beat Balmain by nine to eight, and
South Sydney made an exhibition of Western Suburbs
with 33 to 12. In the competition, Eastern Suburbs
is still top, with 22 points to Glebe’s 18. Newtown
and South Sydney have 14 each, and Balmain and
North Sydney 12.
Quite a huge crowd poured into the Aus-
tralian Football Ground, Sydney, on Saturday last, to
watch a a team from Geelong (Vic.), and a Sydney
XVIII play a wonderfully even game. The Continental
game is growing in popularity in Sydney, and it only
wants a few more like that of Saturday to send it for-
ward by leaps and bounds. Ever since the League got
grounds of its own, to which it could charge for ad-
mission, it has had money with which to foster the
game; and, naturally, the standard of play has risen
and with it the quantity of public appreciation. In
the past the perfectly-trained Melbourne teams have
romped over those of N.S.W., but on Saturday the
Ma Metropolis managed to pick a combined team
which proved a match for the cracks from Geelong.
Still, the men from Geelong all but won, and it
was the bell that killed their chance. In the first
quarter Sydney attacked, and kept Geelong on the
defensive. A defensive game never is any good, and
the quarter ended with Sydney leading by 30 points
to 14. The second quarter found Sydney still going
strong, marking beautifully, and kicking cleanly and
accurately, and though Geelong played desperately,
at half-time Sydney still led by 70 to 34. But in
the third term the superior condition of Geelong
began to tell. Sydney had tired. Geelong opened
its bag of tricks on to the field, and momentarily
paralysed the local men. It added three goals and
10 points to three points put on by Sydney; but
when the bell rang Sydney was still in front, with
73 to 62. Geelong went after those 11 points with
great determination, and the fact that Sydney was
tired stimulated it to mighty efforts. But the
Sydney men pulled themselves together, and still
kicked doggedly. The game grew faster; the hand
of the clock was trembling to the fatal moment,
and Sydney was only two points ahead. Geelong
came with one last splendid effort, the way was open,
but before the ball could rise from the toe the
hand trembled on to the moment, and, as the bell
rang the ball left the toe, and, shooting between the
posts, became a goal that didn’t count. Sydney had
won with 86 points to 84.
The return match between the Union Rugby
XV’s of Queensland and the Ma State, at University
Oval, Sydney, on Saturday, was played on drier
firmer ground than the first, and gave both' teams a
chance to sparkle somewhat. They did, especially
Ma, which flashed 19 points to four when the final
whistle went. Queensland started well, and drew
first blood, struggling out at half-time with four to
nil. After the interval the Cornstalks played much
better. Backs and forwards combined for assault,
and beat the Queensland back machine by sheer
weight. The defence on both sides was' good, but
the Ma State team made better use of the touch line,
and averted quite a lot of danger by punting out of
bounds. Also, the N.S.W. charging combination was
better. This makes the two States level for the
season, each having won the two matches played on
its own soil. On points N.S.W. is ahead with 54 to
48; but that doesn’t count. In the total record
N.S.W. has won 64 games, Queensland 24, and four
have ended in draws.
* * * *
Melbourne had a lot of hoofball, of sorts,
on Saturday, but only one match amounted to a row
of pins—that between Brunswick and Brighton, for
the fourth place in the Ass. final four. ’Wick was a
game ahead, but Brighton had the better average of
points scored for and against, so, if it could win this
game, it was there for good. Unfortunately it
couldn’t, as the Brickies abandoned the foolish indi-
vidualism of their recent games, played concertedly
and strenuously, and by half-time had acquired 47
points to Brighton’s 24. When the rout was ended
the tale was: ’Wick 113 points, Brighton 67, and
North, ’Scray, Essendon and ’Wick will now battle
out the issue. North and Essendon collided with
unnecessary vigor, before an unusually large assem-
blage. There was nothing to be gained by either side
winning, but, apparently, they have got into the way
of bogging-in, and can’t help it, so a hefty scuffle
ensued, ’Don ultimately coming out on top with 45
points to 41. ’Scray further raised its percentage
by piling up 76 points to Port’s 20 ; Wiiliamstown
and ’Cote indulged in a seemly recreation that reached
that desirable yet unsatisfactory conclusion, a draw-
-61 points all- —and Melb. City lost its last chance
of obliterating its blob by failing to notch more than
85 points to P’ran’s 94. There is another round of
games next Saturday, but they can’t alter the posi-
tion of things, and for the six less vigorous teams
the door is now shut.
The League, having its best team away
in Adelaide, provided threepenn’orth of amusement
for the metropolis, by a contest against combined
Bendigo teams, which resulted: League 109 points,
Bendigo 57.
The wiser of Melbourne’s sightseers, of
whom there were some 2000, foreswore hoofball on
Saturday, and watched the three carnival games of
lacrosse —that sport with all the skill and science of
cricket, and more than the life and movement of foot-
ball, where system counts for much, yet individual
brilliance is also effective. At Australia's first inter-
state Carnival, at Adelaide, two years ago, Victoria
won from South Oss by a narrow margin of points
scored. The Croweaters had long been invincible at
the game, and the shock impelled them to send over a
strong team to recapture the laurels. All six States
were represented, W.A. and Tas., who collided first,
making a fair show for novices. The Westralians
won by 14 goals to two. N.S.W. and Q. fought
out a hard and skilful match that kept excitement
simmering till the bell rang, the Ma State gaining
the day by 13 goals to 12. Then the old rivals
tackled each other, and the crowd settled down to
enjoy a pretty contest. Alas! it was all too one-
sided ; the Croweaters’ “attacks” and “homes” were
swift and clever, but ever as they swept forward
they met a solid Victorian defence that snatched the
ball out of their very crosses, and carried it back.
When it reached the dark blue “homes” the S.A.
defence proved weak, and their goal sadly lacking in
that swiftness of eye and alertness of action necessary
to keep the ball out of the net. By lemon-time, the
Blues had netted 11 goals to South Australia’s nil.
In the last quarter, a neat bit of combination gave
the visitors a goal, and a swift, determined rush and
a hard drive won another. That was all. Vic., 11
goals; S.A., two. During the week each of the six
teams plays the other once. To all appearances, none
has a hope of making a fight against the Victorians.
* * * *
The inter-State Hockey Carnival con-
tinued at Sydney on Saturday. The first match was
a scrambling affair between N.S.W. second XI and
that of S.A. Both sides were blissfully ignorant of the
finer points of the game, and relied upon brute force
and hard hitting to do the trick. Apparently the
Ma team had the more force, for it rolled out on top
with six goals to nil. The struggle with Victoria,
though, was a splendid game. The Victorian team
had been practising hard, and developed quite a lot
of combination through the week. The N.S.W.
champions found themselves up against something
very different from what the previous Saturday had
produced. The first surprise came when the N.S.W.
charge looked as though it was going right through,
but didn’t. Not only was the attack repulsed, but
was followed up without a moment’s hesitation, and
the N.S.W. backs had all they could do to save the
goal. Yet they saved it, and, getting it out, attacked
in turn. But it was a lucky blunder, resulting in a
free hit, that gave the Ma team its first goal. The
shot was most excellently played. The figures on the
board drove the Victorian crowd frantic, and it
came again and again with a series of magnificent
charges till under the strain the Cornstalk defenders
lost their heads, and Victoria scored. At half-time
tbe figures were two all. The second half was swift.
Each side scored one goal, and when the whistle
went on a drawn game (three all), the teams stag-
gered off, completely done.
Victoria found itself in a tight place on
Saturday, when it was simultaneously attacked by
baseballers from Adelaide and Sydney, and so had to
divide its best men between two teams. Fortunately
for Willie Watt’s State the Adelaide men arrived
only a few hours before the game commenced, and
were more or less groggy in consequence, and so
should have been easily repulsed. Yet it was far
from an easy job, and Victoria won by the narrow
difference between 12 and 11. In die riot with
N.S.W. its luck was quite out. The invading team
made hideous blunders, and plenty of them, and six
times as many as did the Victorian players. But
the luck was with the Cornstalk team, and spite of
its blunders it got through with nine points to
Victoria’s six.
* * * *
The seventh Test, or third and last
between Australia and S’Africa, was stopped after
each side had batted once, by the continuation of
the deluge which has inundated England this sum-
mer. Tancred, winning the toss, as usual, from
Gregory, pondered deeply, for the Nottingham wicket
promised trouble. However, he went to the sticks,
and at the end of the day had lost eight of his men
for 266. Next day he lifted his total to 329, of
which Sundries contributed no less than 38. The
Australian bowlers divided the wickets with remark-
able evenness. Matthews, two for 26; Hazlitt, two
for 48; Whitty, two for 64; Emery, two for 87 ;
Kelleway, one for 18; and Macartney, one for 35.
With less than two days to go, Australia’s game was
to hurry up a moderate score, rattle the enemy out,
and win by wickets. The Australian XI rushed up
219, Bardsley (n. 0.) topping with 56. Sundries
gave only five. Pegler bagged four wickets for 80
and Faulkner three for 43. Before Africa could go
in again the Deluge had resumed, and as it still
deluged next day tbe match was abandoned. At no
stage of the game was there any justification for the
wild panic that overtook some of the Australian
dailies, especially the sacred scribe who wrote: “The
Springboks have set the Australian supporters quak-
ing at the probable effect that a loss will have upon
the young cricketers of the Commonwealth.” If the
young cricketers are so easily depressed as all that,
they ought to stick to croquet and afternoon-tea
drinking.
An impressive performance, last Saturday,
at Caulfield, was Uncle Sam’s defeat of North Wood-
leigh for tbe welter race (seven furlongs). If the
Caulfield Cup handicap had an Bst. instead of a 6st.
71b. minimum, this stalwart four-vear-old would look
a possible “good thing,” for he is among the light-
weights. Uncle Sam is very big and very fast, but
up to now he has seemed an almost impossible horse
for a weak lad to manage in a crowded field. Also,
he bas been addicted to intermittent bouts of rheu-
matism, and probably he is at his best —like the
lumbering Tradition of long ago—when he carries
what the racing touts call “fat” in lusty gee-gees,
and commercial travellers call “condition” when
they bear it on their lusty selves —under their vests.
Uncle won a couple of mile races at Adelaide in
May, with Bst. 41b. and 9st. up; but previously,
when he ran at Flemington, with onlv 6st. 131 b. on
the saddle, the big chap got a terribly bad start,
and was “all over the shop” before finishing second.
* * * *
The long steeplechase at Caulfield, which
is certainly the best show-race of the Melbourne
year, is getting to be regarded as the stiffest test
of natural jumping capacity in horseflesh, although
the obstacles are all witbin the compass of a
clever hurdler. Last Saturday’s struggle, which
nearly equalled the record for speed, brought a lot
of them down. United Kingdom fell somewhat early
in the journey—rather unluckily, perhaps—but Gun-
cap and the trusty Leah Kleshna, who came to grief
in the fourth mile, were evidently downed by the
difficulty of rising to the occasion, when the distance
was beginning to tell on them. As for Tinapagee,
the fastest of them all on the flat, he never showed
bis speed after clearing a few jumps. Although he
completed the course, the mighty Tin. was going no
faster at the finish than wom-out old Bribery, who
represented Price’s stable in preference to Wimmera
and Ballista. The £l2OO prize went to the horse
that was most kindly handicapped on recent “form.”
Scrutineer finished close to Guncap and United King-
dom in the V.Ii.C. Grand National Steeple, and here
he was meeting them respectively on 131 b. and 91b.
better terms. In the end, Scrutineer beat the well-
kept Concave (last year’s winner) by a neck. He
was backed by punters who follow the racing-guides,
but the turfiest judges rejected him on his appear-
ance. Scrutineer is a “clothes-horse,” or “bag of
bones.” But, seemingly, he is fittest when looking
his ugliest.
* * * *
Sydney baseball premiership took new
life on Saturday, when Petersham arose as a modern
David, and slew Leichhardt, which has been the
Goliath in the glorified game of rounders, by five
canters to one. Leichhardt won the premiership last
year, and had only once sniffed defeat during the
present season; therefore, the second jumping upon
was entirely in order, and absolutely necessary for
the sake of the pastime. In the other struggles, Uni-
versity demolished Waverley by 10 runs to eight.
Lane Cove devoured Burwood by six to three;
while the clashing of Mosman and Paddington
ended in victory for the Northern suburb by 17 runs
to 16. The outcome of the day’s rollicking some-
what levelled up the premiership rush. Leichhardt
and University repose on the top shelf with 18 points
each. Petersham is next at hand with 14. Waver-
ley has 11, and the other four clubs are in a Kil-
kenny cat tussle ’neath the table.
After failing for 16 years to gather a lawn
tennis team to assault N.S.W., a host of Banana-
landers crossed the border, and threw a challenge at
Ma. The old lady was called upon to do battle or
Homeric scrap at Sydney for the Mars-Buckley Cup
—the visible symbol of victory. But whatever repu-
tation the Northerners may have at the game, their
performance fell more flat than a year-old beer.
N.S.W. won all 12 rubbers. In fact, the Ma State
only lost one set out of 29. This writer only knows
one worse tale of downfall, and it was a true tale.
A few years ago the sportive son of a rich Strathfield
(Sydney) man came home stark naked and penniless
in a cab at 2 a.m., having lost his last cent and
his clothes at two-up. And his father was roused up
with the intimation that there was £1 to pay before
the meat would be delivered.
Both League and Union brands of cycledom
tore along the Sydney suburban highways on Saturday,
wheeling off inter-club premierships." The Union
assemblage at Homebush witnessed the defeat of
Redfern (premiership holders) by Western Suburbs,
while the legs of the Manly wheelers were too sturdy
for Balmain and Central Cumberland in the other
heat. The Leaguers whizzed amid dust at Enfield in
the semi-finals, and when the earth had separated
from the atmosphere it was discovered that Burwood
had gathered a heat, while Ashfield and Parramatta
I. finished dead level in the other. Both premier-
ships were over 20 miles, apd, whereas Western
Suburbs (Union) got Over the stretch in 52min.
21 2-6 sec., the best League time was put up by
Burwood (57min. 3 l-6sec.). The amateur brand,
therefore, went to rest in a very good frame of
mind at night time.
**' * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League team, which
leaves for an .excursion to Maoriland on Saturday, will
excurse chiefly in the northern half of the Ricketty
Land. The programme comprises nine matches —eight
in various spaces of the top-half, and the other a
clash against Canterbury at Christchurch (5.1.).
One “test” will be played against all Maoriland, at
Auckland, on September 7 ; and if the information
isn’t a delusion and a snare, sufficient: Maoriland
Rugby Union players have “crossed over” to make
the tourists boot their darndest to win. The Rugby
Union is tottering in what was once Ward’s Country,
and the booming of the Northern Union brand is
likely to bring an earthquake in the football camp.
Cecil Harverson (England), who gath-
ered the “international” billiard tournament at Syd-
ney to his banking account, didn’t have much trouble
over the process. The absence of Reece and Inman
(England) and Fred Lindrum (Australia) fronp
the tournament, took most of the glamor off the
affair, and made an “international” not even as
exhilarating as an ordinary billiard saloon match.
Harverson (with a start of 200 in 3000) never lost
a heat; and in the sixth heat, v. E. Diggle (scratch),
ran to his points when Diggle had scored but 604.
F. Weiss (500) and F. Smith, jun., (900), had a big
scramble and clatter for second honors, and the Eng-
lishman downed the young Australian by 201 points.
The “gate” was not sufficient to cause an outsize in
hats for the promoters.


Learn to Fight Your
Way out of a Scrape.
I
Equip yourself with a knowledge of Scientific
Boxing, so that, when you are set upon (and it
will surely happen, sooner or later) you’ll be able
to convincingly assert yourself as a real man
should.
The usual type of “bully” generally relies on
“bluff” and brute strength. He’s a hot-headed
individual, whose temper ALWAYS gets the upper
hand.
That is to say, he’s just the type that would get
a sound drubbing from the man who knows how to
use his hands properly.
I can teach you how you can use your hands to
best possible advantage—and can teach you in your
own home.
I TEACH BOXING
iWBY POST
and explain every serviceable move so thor-
oughly that you’ll quickly develop into a
“snag.”
There are thirty-two different hits, and
thirty-two different “stops.” You’ll find
each the best possible in its particular use.
This is a more than sufficient variety of
moves, perhaps more than you’ll ever need.
But the foundation of my tuition is to make
you fully qualified for any emergency.
You ought to know how to defend yourself efficiently, and in no way can you
do so more thoroughly than by learning to box.
It will give you an advantage—an advantage greatly in your favor when it comes
to an encounter between man and man.
You will find fuller information, fees, etc., in my booklet, “Scientific Boxing in
Your Home.” It’s a handsome brochure, crammed with interesting facts. There’s
a copy waiting for you if you will write for it. Kindly send 3d. to cover postage.
REG. I_ (“Snowy”) BAKER
50 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLER.EAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Uniformly powerful, raporiscs caaily at any altitude
and a unaffected by varying atmospheric ronCui.cas
your i
Cigarette^
*s<;
twice
a$ good
I CIGARETTE
PAPER
and mtST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. 255? George SI Sydney
“Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
QREME LA FRANCE
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
h
Aii Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
benefieidl to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale : DUERDfN AND SAINSBURY. Melbourne.
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
/a safe and reliable remedy'
/for treating diseases of ALL
I mucous membranes, such as
I discharges fromthenose,throat
I stomach and urinary
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself ’?
VTreatise with each bottle
\or mailed on request.
LThe Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio
U.S.A.
S(vNT44
Superior to
i INJECTIONS
IdJBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
V Cures the same
’ diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears tbe aaase
ĥ
U/ie Riftney Shoe
is recognised by careful dressers as
the most distinctive, highest grade,
best fitting, smartest looking and
longest wearing shoe it is possible
to procure.
No matter how much you pay for
made-to-order footwear, you cannot
get a shoe more individual in its
every detail than The Rigney.
This shoe here shown is a Rigney
special—an exact reproduction of
the up-to-date, made-to-order styles ;
can be supplied in all leathers—
black or tan.
Price = 18/6 to 25|
Postage 9d. Extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalogue.
ħ
h
The Rig'ney shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., and Pitt St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
INCORPORATED 1863.
HOLDS regular sales of Wool, Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Furred Skins and Sundries, and makes liberal cash
advances on consignments in store awaiting sale;
securing Highest Market Rates for ali Consignments entrusted
to it, and rendering returns promptly.
The Company makes Advances on Pastoral Properties and
Stock at current rates of interest, and acts generally as
Pastoral Banker and Agent.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Wheat Selling Charge - - - per cent.
Four Months’ Free Storage allowed in Sydney, if desired.
1
PILES BANISHED
Piles can have no further terrors for those who know the virtues of
Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills.
In fact, these tormentors of so many lives quickly disappear after a
short course of treatment with Murphy’s Pills, which are Nature’s own
remedy.
They are purely herbal in composition, perfectly harmless, non-
aperient, and superior to all other treatments.
They eliminate all poisons from the system, and proVe successful in
all eases, whether internal or external.
Sold everywhere by Chemists and Storekeepers, or may be ordered
direct. Price, 3/- per box, post free. Sole Proprietors: ANDREW
MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
ĥ
A MOUSTACHE Makes Personality!
The change from boyhood to manhood is made when you cover that
bare upper lip—your personality is strengthened—your commercial chances
are improved. CAPILLARINE
is the acknowledged perfect moustache grower, _ with an unassailable 25
years’ reputation. Use it regularly and according to directions, and it
simply cannot fail. Get a jar to-day!
PRICE 10/6 PER lAR. Post Free.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER—worn at night—shapes
the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
Craig & AitKen,
654- George Street, Sydney-
Established 30 Years.
When the Titanic was let loose on the
water it was hailed as “the last word in
ship-building.” Heaven only knows why,
for, as far as unsinkableness is concerned,
the Titanic was a very brummy construc-
tion compared to Brunei’s Great Eastern,
launched in 1858. The old-timer was 692 ft.
long and 83ft. wide. From stem to stern_ it
had two shells —two distinct hulls one in-
side the other. These hulls were 3ft. apart,
and the intervening space was broken up
into an enormous number of small, abso-
lutely unconnected, water-tight compart-
ments. In addition, there were two
longitudinal bulkheads which traversed the
ship from stem to stern, and went right
up to the top deck. So lengthways the ship
was divided into three distinct water-tight
compartments, and Brunei made arrange-
ments for flooding either or all of them so
as to balance his ship should it be necessary.
Then another set of cross bulkheads divided
the inside hull into 10 distinct water-tight
compartments, and produced what was pro-
bably the most unsinkable ship the world
has ever known. In the Titanic the bottom
of the shell alone was double, and, more-
over, the transverse bulkheads were not
carried to the top deck, but merely to a deck
a short distance above the waterline. When
the Titanic’s side was ripped open it dived
to the bottom with 1600 people. When the
Great Eastern stripped off 80ft. of its outer
hull on a rock it steamed home in safety
and comfort. And in the matter of safety
the ship of 1858 is still the world’s best
model.
ifeTqb
>^w v /
»* M
Golf
Balls
THE DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
.rill States and N.Z.
Victorian Amateur
Golf Championship
1912
was won with a “ Dunlop.”
The same make of Ball
carried off the Victorian
Doubles Championship
★ * ★
Golfing* Celebrities all the world over
are now selecting the “Dunlop,” on
account of its perfect balance, its
quality, and its durability their
experience being that it has
for driving and putting.
It pays to use them, besides
improv ng :your play.
All DEPOTS & PROFESSIONALS
2'6


Tailor-Made Costumes
New Patterns Just
Opened for
SPRING
Our stock of ma-
terials is very com-
prehensive; and
ouf Tweeds and
Costume Cloths are
in exclusive designs.
We invite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors and
Costumers,
76 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
h
ĥ
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Sliop
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [•
r /7^
:
Dlt. GRIFFITH’S latest London walnut stain,
•‘PYIIOID.” Why trouble about Grey Hair. . He-
cause Dr. Griffith’s “London Walnut Stain, com-
pared with imitations, is a Luxurious Lconomy. in
one solution and throe separate shades. Stocked by
all Wholesale Druggists. Retail, all Chemists and
Stores, in two siz.es. Also, “ARABIS” Celebrated
KGYPTIAN-HKNNA, for Grey Hair. 1/- and z/t>.
Sold everywhere, and from Wassiamull Assomull and
Co , Indian Merchants, Melbourne and Sydney.
r %
It’s So Easy.
The Horse is HitcHed
in and off you go.
This Scoop cuts its way
quickly and cleanly, fills easily
in ploughed or virgin soil, and is
extremely light on the horse.
How does this way of making-
irrigation Channels, Drains and
Dams appeal to you after the
back-breaking pick-and-shovel
way? Body of our Scoop is
oressed cold from one solid plate
of hardened steel. Some scoops
are pressed hot; tests prove the
hot-pressed scoop weak at cor-
ners.
The McPherson Scoop has
Steel Runners and Detachable
Handles.
Capacity. Weight. Price.
No. 3—3 cubic feet 801 b. 32/6
No. 2—5 cubic feet 951 b. 357-
No. I—71 — 7 cubic feet 1051 b. 37 / 6
No. o—lo0 —10 cubic ft. 1331 b. 80/-
Dam - MaKing Scoop
Tilting Pattern.
Same solid construction as above
Scoops. Dumps the load and
returns to its original
position for tilling.
No. 1, 7 cubic feet, 75/-
No. 2, 5 cubic feet, 67/6
No. 3, 3 cubic feet, 59/-
ħ
For Farm and Workshop Tools write to
“ Machinery and Tool Merchants,”
554"*60 552-88 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
MODEL EE
5> Passenger Touring Car 110-inch Wheelbase.
R-C-H
ii
Twenty-Five”
Touring Car and Roadster Models
h
Fully Equipped, 5 pass., 1 10-in. wheel base,
with Hood, Wind Screen, Gas Lamps and
Generator Long Stroke Motor, Three
Speeds, Enclosed Valves, Bosch Magneto.
Specifications and equipment are the same in Touring Car and Road-
ster Models, except that Roadster wheelbase is 8G inches.
2-Passenger, £230; 5-Passenger, £285.
A careful reading of equipment and construction details will impress upon
you its exceptional value at this price. , ,
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO. LTD.,
Lyric Theatre Buildings, SYDNEY. 186 Exhibition Street, MELBOURNE.
The success of the R-C-H in the export field has been as immediate as in the United States.
We are making shipments almost daily to the following countries:—
Australia Austria, Belgium, Brazil, British Guiana, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Great Britain,
Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Philippine Islands, Porto Rico, Russia, South Af ,
Most of Australian territory has been placed, but there is stiil some very desirable
territory open in New South Wales and Victoria. We are closing same a? .rapidly as possiDie,
and invite correspondence from responsible persons along these lines.
GENERAL R-C-H SPECIFICATIONS.
MOTOR —Four cylinders, cast en bloc, S*in. bore, Sin. stroke, two Tuning
gears and valves enclosed. Three-point suspension. DRIVE—LEI T SIDE 0R RWHT SI ,
rules of the road may require. Irreversible worm gear, 16m. steering wheel. _ CONI' ® , ,
levin operated through H plate, integral with universal joint housing lipjnediately b •
SPRINGS —Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full elliptic and mounted on swivel seats.
Pressed steel channel. AXLES—Front, I-beam, drop-forged; rear, semi-floatmg ,-fiypc. BODY
English type, extra wide seats, Full equipment quoted above.
Marie Lohr, our Sydney-born beauty, has made a
big hit in the revival of Pinero’s “Amazons” at
London Duke of York. Says the Daily Chronicle :
“The surprise of the evening was undoubtedly Miss
Marie Lohr. Though one would never have expected
it, she made far and away the best boy out of all
the three girls. From her entrance, vaulting over a
gate, to the last scene in the gymnasium, she looked
boy, spoke boy, and got boy over the footlights with
a strength, confidence and firm ease that were abso-
lutely astonishing.” The Daily Telegraph remarks:
“Miss Marie Lohr’s tomboy is a creature whose fasci-
nation exceeds the charm of prose. A jollier piece
of dainty vigor you will not find.” And the Daily
Mail is most complimentary of them all: “Miss
Marie Lohr, as the youngest Amazon, carried all be-
fore her. Her assumption of boyishness was amaz-
ingly clever, particularly her curt incisive speech
and easy masculine swagger.”
“Snell” : One of these nights a theatrical manager
with a sense of humor and a craving for novelty
will hang out a placard with the strange device,
“House Half Empty,” and he will probably draw in
an excited stream of patrons and start a boom which
will last for weeks. People will simply gallop to
the scene. The old shift or dodge is p.ayed oat. 1
drifted into a metropolitan house the other night.
There were three placards announcing “House Full”
hung out in front. They had been hung when the
manager decided there wasn’t a ghost of a chance
that anyone else would arrive. Inside about 150
yawning patrons sprawled over accommodation for
2000 or so. I never saw such yawning in my life.
Even the theatre yawned. The house was full all
right—full up. When 1 left 1 was full up too.
Then I became full to drown my sorrow. Conse-
quently I couldn’t eat anything in the morning, and
remained empty.
“Ami”: Titheradge first came to Australia from
India in 1879. At Calcutta he acted 120 parts in 10
weeks. The part lie has acted most often is the
Messenger from Mars (540 times), but he performs
the Tramp in the current Melbourne revival. First
arriving in Melbourne, he acted at the Bijou in
“False Shame.” lie was the only man in the city
who had a complete book of “H.M.S. Pinafore,” then
the rage. Manager Ilayman got one, but his prompter
bolted with it. Hayman offered a fabulous sum for
Titheradge’s, who had unfortunately lent his to
Johnny Hall, and could not lay hands on it. Just
as he obtained it back the value had gone down to
Is. At Sydney, Titheradge opened in “Olancart.y,”
with Sam Lazar. His next important move was
joining Garner’s comedy company in Melbourne.
Here he pays a high tribute to Freddy Marshall.
Titheradge got up an amateur show at Sydney Gov-
ernment House, under Loftus, patronised by the Duke
of Clarence and King George. He proceeded to
America and London. While there, Garner met him
in the Strand, and engaged him to return to Mel-
bourne as the original Silver King. In a very much
later performance Titheradge had to borrow Wipon
Barrett’s fur coat—the original one, 17 years old.
Barrett, like Irving, had a fancy for hanging on to
old toss and props. A piece called “Impulse, with
Titheradge, ran 72 nights in Melbourne. He was 10
years with the Brough and Boucicault co. Repertoire
ot' 1404 pieces. Titheradge was able to go in tor his
favorite daffodils. Once when he had an hour or
two at home in Essendon, after an absence of
months, he devoted all the time to the garden, and
was never inside the house, having to bolt off and
catch the Sydney train.
There are big prizes in the theatrical lottery bag if
you are lucky enough to draw the winning ticket.
Stated in a recent volume of theatrical reminiscences
that William Duck acquired for £lOO the provincial
rights of “Our Boys” from the author, Henry J.
Byron. The play proved an enormous success, and
had a record run in London. Duck, as its sole pro-
prietor outside London, netted £40,000 by touring it
in the provincial theatres. In more recent years a
financier, who put up £3OO for the production of
“Charlev’s Aunt,” soon had £20,000 to his credit
as his share of the profits. Gambling of course ! No
man, not even the greatest expert, can tell before-
hand the fate of a play.
On the authority of J. C. Fay, the Sydney pianist,
the working girls of Leipsic (Germany) can learnedly
roll off text and score of the great grand operas, and
retail intelligent criticism with the best of them. To
attain these heights they take their two-penn'orth of
“Grand” in the same way as the local divinity takes
her sixpenn’orth of “pickchers.” Other prices range
from 6d., and students may reserve seats in a gallery,
specially lighted to enable them to follow the text
from their books, for a lordly 9d.
“Vulcan”: Even the aeroplane is tied to the tail
of the theatrical advertiser these days. Lately one
of the artists of Paris Alhambra went aloft in a
machine, whence he rained handbills on the city.
Unfortunately a lump of the literature dropped on
the one head in Paris it should have dodged—that
of the chief of police. And the chief became blith-
ered with rage and broken dignity, and the enter-
prise came to a sudden end.
“Exile” : To get up the ladder of fame in London
is harder than in most places, yet if you have a tail
like an opossum it is not so hard to stick where you
get. Even after an actor is famous, he needs money
to take a theatre and allot himself the leading parts.
All the leading actors in London have become lead-
ing by getting into the right, financial position to
lead, ’and that means finding a wealthy backer.
Sometimes this backer makes money, and sometimes
he doesn’t. George Alexander, John Hare,
Charles Wyndham, Beerbohm Tree and H. B. Irving
have all trodden the same path at the end of which
lies success in both fame and money. And now
these actors are at the top of the ladder they
will lag superfluous there till their tails become lifnp
from wear and tear and they drop off and die. No
young* man gets a square deal on the London stage.
The old hands stand on the gunwale and hit him on
the knuckles hard with an oar directly he appears.
This is one reason why so many people were drowned
with the Titanic.
A desperate effort to “popularise Shakspeare is in
progress in England. Miss Glossop Harris, the
daughter of the dead Augustus Harris, the Blandolt
of Drury Lane, and her husband, Frank Gellier, are
the responsible parties. In seven days, at the Pier
Theatre Hastings, their co. gave eight Shakspearian
plays, including “Macbeth,” at a tariff which ended
up at 2d.
“Alpha”: I remember Marie Narelle’s first concert.
She was teaching music at the time in the village of
Candelo (N.S.W.), and every bawbee —a bawbee is
half a brown —was a consideration. Someone in-
duced her to try her luck at Bombala, and in conse-
quence she went thither accompanied by her two
star pupils. A well-known butter-factory manager
(now deceased) from the Bega cow-country, came
with the two. On the night of the concert a deluge
began to happen. I took the money at the door of
the School of Arts, and the total amounted to 14s.
Marie bravely faced the chairs, however, and gave
“Barney O’Shea” and other items ; the butter-factory
man blackened his face and did a nigger turn ; and
one of the star pupils sang “Take Back Your Gold
—just as though we didn’t want it badly. . A few of
us prevailed on Marie to try her luck again. Result
this time: 245. Miss Narelle has visited Bombala
several times since, but things are different now.
Miss Bessie Major was not the first from Australia
to distinguish herself as Mistress Quickly in lhe
Merry Wives of Windsor.” Oscar Asche states that
he engaged her in Australia for the part. mis.
Elizabeth Winstanley, an old-time actress and author-
ess, and the mother of actresses,
in the early ’so’s in London. Mrs. Wmstamey
plaved at the “Old Vic.” in Pitt-street, y ney>
as the theatre was not continuously open, slie fil
in her spare time in other occupations. In 1844 she
kept a tobacco shop in Pitt-street, not far tro
George Coppin's Clown Tavern, which stood .opposite
the McCathie’s of to-day. In 184/ she carried on a
similar business at 112 King-street, between Pitt and
Oastlereagh streets, on the southern side, and i
1850 she kept The Nags Head Inn at 193 Pitt-street,
between Park and Market streets, on the east side.
In the first ’so’s she went to London, the bearer of
a letter from Joe Simmons, actor-manager to Charles
Kean, who took her on at once. sl J e appeared m
most of his Shakspearian productions at the Pnncess s.
Charles Kean played Mr. Ford in the “Merry Wives
Mrs. Winstanley being Mistress Quickly. She was
good that her picture appears in Tallis s bhakspeare
in that character. Mrs. Winstanley returned to
Australia, and died in Fitzroy (\ic.), on June il,
1867. She had two daughters on the stage in Sjd-ney
—Mrs. O’Flaherty (her husband was a musician in
the orchestra of the “Old Vic.”), and Mrs. Ximines,
whose husband was an actor.
“Vulcan”: The grip of the moving-picture business
on the Jew-nited States is shown by some recent
figures—probably faked. Apart from the thousands
of occasional shows in clubs, schools and churches,
the attendance is alleged to reach 15,000,000 daily.
This huge audience is catered for by over 13,000
regular picture theatres, whose aggregate takings top
£55,000,000 a year (Yankee reckoning). One un-
doubted feature of the business is that it becomes a
sort of hard-grained habit, like Wowsing and other
forms of sin, with the result that during a recent
big strike, when business generally was paralysed, the
local “picher” barns bulged just as though nothing
else was happening.
“Daddy” : A week or so back, a spasmodic “Pov-
erty Pointer” mentioned a few Hamlets. Here are a
few more whom I have helped support: W. E. Sheri-
dan, George Chaplin, William Hoskins, J. B. Howe,
J. B. Steele, Charles Warner, F. M. Bates, W. C.
Dillon, Fairclough, Morton Tavares, George Darrell,
H. N. Douglas, Louise Crawford, Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis, Miss Marriott, Miss Bouverie, Adelaide Ross,
Marie Henderson. The last four in London, the rest
in Australia and Maoriland.
The building, known as the Old Gaiety Theatre,
in Castlereagh-street, Sydney, has changed hands.
One Catholic body has sold it to another. It was
erected about the year 1874 on the site of Exeter
House, and was known then as the Australian Guild
Hall. In 1880 it became the Gaiety Theatre, and
was used by John Bennett to house his company,
burnt out at the “old Vic.” in Pitt-street. L. M.
Bavless was afterwards lessee and manager; John
Solomon was a lessee; and Alfred Dampier had a
long season there. Then it became a boxing saloon
and sports’ hall. The clergy became dissatisfied
that church property should be held so cheaply, so
the A.H.C. Guild sold the place for £lO,OOO.
Who is the oldest living actress associated with
the Australian stage? She lives in London, and her
stage name is Dolores Drummond. In private life
she is Mrs. Sprague, and she has a son who is the
architect of a number of the newest and best Lqndon
theatres. She was born in London on February 3,
1838, and emigrated to Melbourne in 1856, with the
idea of becoming a paipter, but she took to the
stage instead. According to “Who’s AVho in the
Theatre,” Miss Drummond “made her first appear-
ance at the Iron Theatre in 1856.” This must be
the old Olympic, ,at the corner of Lonsdale and
Stephen streets, commonly called the “Iron Pot.” It
was built of iron, and brought from Birmingham in
sections by George Coppin. Miss Drummond played
Desdemona and other leading Shakspearian rOlcs with
G. V. Brooke in Melbourne and Sydney. She returned
to England in 1874, and since then has played under
all the leading London managers, including Henry
Irving, John Hare and Charles Wyndham. She is
grand-daughter of a Royal Academian, and so has
hereditary artistic tastes.
THE MOURNER,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lie leans upon the outward wall,
A limp, dejected man in black,
His chin is half disposed to fall
Upon the flags, misfortunes all
Are perched upon’his bended back.
The pros in hollow depths employed
Send echoes of a hero’s stress,
The squeal of heroines annoyed,
And wheezes popping in the void,
While villains roar in emptiness.
Now leave him to his great despair,
For sympathy he sourly shuns.
He is the manager, and there,
With drooping mouth and glassy stare,
He’s mourning o’er the absent ones!
N.S.W.
S.


ĥ
■f
SB
wrnmk
/. i
o'
1
Ini
vs-i
Bmp ¥?i
Kv
US
* =
'Sr s'■ ’
«
• •■■ ; '■■ ?
.
/
ir
$
.
If
KJ
m
.':'' i§
n n
i
si
i
r
..
.
r "V
* «
Will see Yau through
DURABILITY
m m mm mm
"THEContinental (.& 0. Rubber Ob°
Melbourne , Sydney,Adelaide , Perth , Brisbane, Launceston Christchurch,NX


Child “plump
and rosy” on
SCOTT'S
EMULSION
Thus do mothers tell how M
Scott’s Emulsion brings f
health, strength and re-
newed life to the little ones.
Coughs, colds, chills
and bronchitis
indeed all throat and chest ail-
ments are banished by this strength-
making emulsion. Note this case:
Here is the mother’s
letter ——
'' My little daughter was suffering
from a severe cold. The doctor said I
could give her nothing better than
Scott’s Emulsion. Now, thanks to
Scott’s Emulsion, she is in better
health than before she became ill.
She has gained greatly in weight, has
a splendid appetite, and is plump and
rosy. The wonderful results are a
great surprise to all. ”
Mrs. Alice Maddern, Fleet
Street, Carlton, N.S.W.
No substitute or imitation is nearly
so good as Scott’s. Therefore, if
you would have your child happy,
healthy and strong—don’t simply
ask for emulsion, ask for SCOTT S
EMULSION.
ħ
Cut out this figure and see
that a similar figure is on
the package you buy. It is
the SCOTT Trade Mark—,
your guarantee that you
really have got genuine
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfuly
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science. • ■ '
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, 11. A. God-
dard No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane- or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw s Buildings, Clin
Street! Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street. East Auckland. , „ ,
Serial No 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by 11. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. t 2
Allcockts
PIASTERS
For Coughs and Colds
put one on chest and
another between shoulder
blades* It breaks up the
congestion (the cause of
colds) before it can reach
the lungs*
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion, etc.
BrandretKs Pills
ENTIRELY VEGETABLE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO.,
Birkenhead, ENGLAND.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
have a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very best that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by a!l Fir*t-Clas* Draper* and Storekeeper*.
latest victory
GRAND TRIZE
B U ELS
LXiilß TION. 1910
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
CONTKNTS —
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, lOd. ;
Brough’s Secret of Stage
Make-Up, 1/4; Sixteen
Amusing Farces, 1/1 ;
Thirteen One-Act Farces,
1/1 ; Twenty Humorous
Dialogues, 1/1 ; Home
Amusements, 1/1 ; “How
Old Mose Counted the
Eggs” and 116 Other.
Humorous Becitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic
Recitations, 1/1 ; “How
Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dialect Re-
citations, 1/1 ; 1401 Con-
undrums and Riddles,
1/1 ; Art of Ventrilo-
quism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clairvoy-
I ance, 1/1 ; Amateur Con-
juring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
♦ *
m
Diminishing
Cards.
O idin ary
P 1 a y i n fr
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
struc t i o n s;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
and any BOOK YOU WANT.-*!
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE , [8
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
h
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Plat.
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
4.4 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM AND GOUT.
MUCKADILLA HOTEL,
QUEENSLAND HOT SPRINGS.
Site of Famous Bore, adjoining Railway Station.
Western line (10 hours from Toowoomba),
Wire or Write Manager, Muckadilla, Q.
Tariff £3 3s
: Ayer’s Hair Vigor does not"
color the hair; but it stops 1
falling hair, removes dan-
druff, and greatly promotes j
k growth of hair. 1
ĥ
For First-Class
Results use
Best
ħ
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
J '
' r-"
/ P )
I
-e.v
Iff'-
1 |H"
l CJ-l IV ;
A
'
iSI
liiil
JK ' W
2a
38
o
rMfra/?rA\T?l
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’’ for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
\
y
‘THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Schebler Carburetor
The..
Famous
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES— either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. II you want to set more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
h
Look into
Atmoslite
Light.
Before you decide on
any lighting equipment
investigate the Atmos-
lite Automatic System
—the system that gives
the most efficient light-
ing with the greatest
saving of money and
labor. Write for folder
now.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne^
CobberMouth Organs
No. 1. — The Professional Cobber, 40 Bell
Metal Reeds in fine Metal Case —3/“
No. 2. — The Standard Cobber, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard
Case ••• ; _ "•
No. 3. — The Miniature Professional
Cobber, 20 Bell Metal Reeds in fine
Metal Case
No. 4.— The Cobber Vamper, 20 Bell
Metal Reeds in fancy Cardboard Box l/“
Sold by all Stores.
The Trade supplied by
JACKSON & MACDONALD
Australian Agents, Druitt St., Sydney
A E- Beal, East St., Rockhampton, and
367-9 Queen St., Brisbane;
Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, Rnunceston ;
G W. Ryan, 43 Bourke St., Melbourne,
Optical & Photo Supplies Co.,
Hay St., Perth.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULfS INDIAN CIGAREM
Difflenlty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous
IS CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bv all ChemitU.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
he returned unless stamps accompany.
Hoo Ivee: We can forgive you a good
many things. But when you try to pass ott ,as
Australian that old, old, Scotch-Insh-English-Welsh
story of the illiterate storekeeper, who drew pictures
of the goods supplied, and charged his customer for a
cheese instead of a grindstone, through leaving out
the hole in the centre of the diagram, it is over the
odds T.A.S.: That joke has already reached us
with a picture attached. It seems to be in the air.
....Dingo: Origin unknown. Webster says that it
is “supposed to have been introduced (to Australia)
by man, at a very early period”... Sydney Playgoer:
Damphoolish without a doubt, but hardly worth mak-
ing a song, or even a par., about. .. .Pundit: We
have ceased to feel diverted at the humor of the
Babu these many years. .. .G. Wilson: Many thanks.
Sorley Boy: The great merit of English rule in
Ireland seems to be that it has made Ireland the
only white man’s country in the world which is
losing population, and which has been doing so tor
70 years. In other words, English rule seems to have
made Ireland the only white man s country that isn t
fit for a white man to live in. On the evidence, it is
time to try a new experiment. By the way, what an
untravelled and unread person your correspondent
must be when he describes the Belfast show as tne-
biggest Demonstration of any kind that ever took
place'” ...Hermit: Not enough in it for an article.
.. . Wanderlust: Cannot keep track of pars, or answer
inquiries re same by letter. Don t enclose stamps
with them in future. You had better keep duplicates.
....Nemesis: Very well then: —
FORGET.
Forget the mean and crawling thing
That came to us in Friendship’s guise
Oft his insipid songs to sing
In Virtue’s praise, while acting lies?
Forget the thing with cloven hoof
That oft did come to share our bread,
That oft reposed beneath our roof,
While seeking his vile net to spread?
Forget the bland and childlike smile,
The cat-like eye and pose serene?
The oily tongue that hid its guile
Beneath a Machiavellian screen?
Forget the fiend in human form
Who hospitality betrayed ?
Whose hand we grasped in friendship warm,
While he concealed assassin’s blade?
Forget? Can Judas be forgot?
Can Carker’s action be condemned?
Forgetting not! Forgetting not!
In Hades let such be atoned.
He seems to have been a cross between a singing ser-
pent and a “fair cow”. . . W. 8.5.: You have made good
the deficient postage, and we forgive you with all our
cash-box. .. .J.W. (S.A.) : Smooth enough, but we
are not very keen on parodies. .. .Errant: Not ex-
actly. It is a fairly bright and hopeful production,
which we reject respectfully... .G. A.S.: We pay for-
any original'story, verse, paragraph or picture sug-
gestion that is good enough. Read directions to con-
tributors on leader page H.L.S.: Unsuitable.
Feeble description of creek or something flowing down
to the sea A.B. (Tas.): Sketch unsuitable. To
your query—-No C.T.: Can’t make port
Soma: Cheerful stuff, but not worth print Dirk
S.: Concerning those two pars. At their final judg-
ment, two persons alone knew their fate—the Editor
and Mr. Justice Basket. Now only the latter knows.
J.A. (Q.): Some promise. Your phrasing is
good. . . . J.C.W. (V.) : Parson-scout jest murdered in
cold ink. .. .M.C.: Brook dammed.... H. Kee: It is
a weak thing, and leans heavily on puns. .. .Peter:
Fair attempt, but we foiled it.... Olive E.: Tender
rhymes ‘for the cosy corner A.H.: Bush poet
cremated alive W.R.R.: Treatment isn’t crisp
enough. .. .H.F.W.: Right into the abyss! Leon-
ard F. (V.) : No. . . .Kid Whacker: It isn’t King Cow
at all —it’s Queen Cow, and you ought to be ashamed
of yourself !.... Outcast: And your MS. likewise....
M.C.: “Dream Lover” shooed off the premises....
W.A.8.: The article on aboriginal names was a con-
tributed one, and was published as the writer’s (not
the paper’s) opinions. There isn’t an authority on
aboriginal names on the staff, and we have no imme-
diate intention of getting 0ne.... Thomas Dickson:
Will you please try to realise that to return all re-
jected paragraphs and trifles like that would require
i staff of about 10 clerks, and would use up a ton
if envelopes per annum. Also, to acknowledge all
paragraphs would make the correspondence column
run to about 10 columns. Every city paper is up
against that sort of difficulty. Try to be reasonable
as well as beautiful.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Colin C. C.: A poor thing, but your own. Let it
remain your own N.: Rather a rude style of art.
.. . Charles G.: Point not very clear, and Oscar Asche
is already a much-depicted mummer. Furthermore,
your picture might be more like him, though it cer-
tainly shows him with the correct quantity of legs.
....Pee Jay: Fa -it pencil smudge of the boundless
sea cast into Toohet. ■:
Dear Bulletin, —I had been intending
for some time to write you about the de-
Israelisation of the Jews. Your par. (B.
18/7/’l2) concerning the Cohen who called
himself Fortescue, and the Solomon Lazarus
Levi who calls himself Sidney Lee, reminded
me. In Melbourne and Sydney this kind of
thing is commoner than 60 per cent, in-
terest —and that’s common enough, Allah
knows! The number of fat, solid, hook-
nosed persons with beautiful Norse and
Saxon names in front, and Hebraic names
to the rear, is great —and getting greater
every year! Like the gentleman who lies
full fathom five, the gentleman who lays five
to four suffers a sea-change in happy little
Australia —or rather his name does. Aaron
Goldstein, or Abraham Goldberg, late of
Warsaw, via Whitechapel, blossoms forth in
the local directory as Archibald Goldie, or
Albert Golding; Baumgarten becomes Ban-
nerman; Levi is Lee, Lea or Leigh; Grauber
and Graupner are quite unrecognisable as
Grover or Grosvenor. Scottish names are
peculiarly affected by the backsliders of
Jerusalem, and a glorious army or Mel-
bourne and Sydney “Macs” possess scimitar-
shaped noses and a strange distaste tor
whisky. Irish names are rarely taken. Per-
haps Rachel O’Moses or Bridget Palestine or
Bathsheba Macgillicuddy would excite ribald
laughter. Next to the whole-hog changers
are the Hebrews who may be called halt-
timers. They never quite give up the com-
munity, and they never quite tackle the
Christian creed ; but they give one the im-
pression that they might do one or the other
any day! Retaining, as they do, the old
Jewish surnames (or very slightly altering
them), they never, by any chance, hand on
to their children the front names of the Ten
Tribes that were Lost, or of the Two-and-
Twenty that remain. The boys come under
notice as Eric Cohen, Merlin Isaacs, Harold
feamuels, Cedric Jacobs, Roderic and Ronald
/Mosenstein, and so on; while the girls get
inames like Gladys, Muriel and Margaret.
So, when you meet Mrs. Muriel Johnson, you
wonder at her resemblance to Rachel Levy
‘next door; but, as a matter of fact, uie de-
ilsraelited Mrs. J. was Rachel’s cousin, and
born a Josephs! Rachel, because her pa
and ma are strictly Orthodox, no longer
“plays speaks” with the sadly Anglicised
Muriel. Can anyone say why Jews do these
things? Is it for pleasure, or for Peezness.
—Yours, eto., PetroniUS Earbiter.


mu
f/'M
Y if 1
f n\ s \V‘' V i >
////'
W
1 iJ
i ii
n
n
I
lull I I
m
fe.- *
i ~
/T/tmuin/.
////11/llf I '.
'//(IWWW
\\
(J'Vj -
jfgggj
; .$- ? T
1 W.W't^WW'^SS
vv«s. - .~.WS
I o ® .
&' *-K
&
It
fill
i ' \
!**
<5~
mmi
Those who have used the Beale High-Grade Pianos are unani-
mous in their praise. We have received thousands of unsolicited
testimonials from users throughout the Commonwealth, from China,
India, New Zealand, the Islands of the Pacific and elsewhere.
A point that all lay great stress on is the wonderful lasting
qualities of the Beale High-Grade Piano in the most variable
climates.
The following speaks for itself: —
IMPERIAL CHINESE RAILWAYS. SHANGHAI-NANKING RAILWAY.
Messrs. BEALE and CO.
Executive Engineer’s Office,
Penniu, May 8, 1909.
Dear Sirs, —I do not know if you have sent pianos to China, before or not,
but I think it is only right to let you know how your pianos stand the climate
over here. Perhaps you remember my buying the instrument at St. Arnaud,
Vie., a few years ago. We have since then brought it to China, and when I went
to Australia a few years ago I took it with me, and, not staying there as I first
intended, I brought it back again to China a couple of months ago, and, after
all its travelling and rough usage by Chinese, it is in splendid condition. Every
time I go to it I cannot help feeling pleased with the sweet, full tone, which is
very unusual in pianos in China. We are in the interior, where we have the
two extremes of heat and cold, which is very severe in its effect on most pianos,
but which «has proved your instrument to stand all you said it would when I
first bought it from yon. Yours very truly,
H. J. COLLIS,
Penniu, via Shanghai, China.
We have sold over 16,000 Beale High-Grade Pianos.
We sell for cash or upon easy terms. If you cannot call, write
for Catalogue, which we shall be glad to send post free.
BEALE (Q. CO. LTD
MAKERS OF .
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS
** The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
CARL VADER PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


GIFTS
FOR ALL.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY’S GREATEST NOVELTY HOUSE.
PRACTICAL
PRESENTS.
SEWING COMPANION, containing
Useful Articles, Bone Handles, \el
vet-lined Case, 7/6.
“MARE AND FOAL” BRONZE ORNAMENT,
Height Biin, 10/6-
CLOTH BRUSH, Nickel, Richly
Embossed, Finest Bristles, 7/6-
Nickel SHAVING BRUSH, Fine
Quality, Badger Bristles, 1/6.
1/9, 2/6, 3/6, 5/6. ■
MANICURE SET, containing 7 Useful
Xylonite Articles, complete in Silk-lined
Case, S/«.
Gent.’s COMPANION, containing Razor, Scissors,
Corn Knife, Tweezers, and Corkscrew, in Solid
Leather Case, (5/6.
m
i
Morocco Leather, Motor Bag, Leather Lined,
Strong Nickel Frame, Outside Pocket, 17/6
1 li
ASAUR3IIB,
r
ASAUHDERS
asauhdek
Nickel HAIR
BRUSH, Richly
Embossed, Extra
Long Bristles,
S/6.
SCISSOIib SET, Com-
prising 3 Pairs Em-
broidery Scissors,
Finest Sheffield Steel,
Solid Leather Case,
8/6-
Gent.’s HAIR BRUSH, Real Ebony,
Silver Shield, Long White Bristles,
10/6
Chain PURSE, Crocodile
Leather, Silver Mounts and
Lock, Chamois Lining, 21/-
Write Straight Away For Free
CATALOG OF LEATHER-
WARE. It’s Full of Delightful
Suggestions.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL GOODS
BUT CLOCK« and CHINA.
1-DAY OAK TIMEPIECE, Richly Carved, Splendid
Timekeper, Guaranteed. 12/6-
m
ill
831
m.
DRESSING-TABLE SET, Nickel, Bevelled Glass awing
Mirror, Hair and Cloth Brushes, 30/-
Rectangular
READING
GLASS, to suit
all sights, 2/6,
3/6, 4/, 4/6.
POST FREE,
CIGAR CASE, Seal
Leather, Calf Lining,
Silver Mounts and Shield,
1 «*/«.
INKS'!'AiNiJ, Polished Nickel jkounts, Crystal G 1
Bottles, Solid Oak Base, 15/6-
Nickel TOILET
MIRROR, Richly
Embossed, Bevelled
Glass. £*/(».
Oak TOBACCO JAR, Porcelain
China Lining, heavy Nickel
Plated Mounts and Shield, 7/6-
TOBACCO POUCH, Buck-
skin, Silver Shield, Rubber
Lining, 4/6; Doeskin,
7/6; Kangaroo Skin, 6/6.
m
POCKET COMPASS,
’.rass Case, Paper
Dial, 1/6-
Powerful 3-draw Brass TELESCOPE, 14in Exte tided, sin Closed, in Tan Leather Case, 10/6-
FIELD GLASSES, Enamel Finished Frame,
Morocco Leather Covered, Achromatic
Lenses, Sharp Definition, 25/-
Including Case and Strap.
Fitted <vith Compass, 27/6-
BRONZE ORNAMENT, Height 9£in,
15/6-
Morocco
Leather
SPEOTACJ
CASE,
Silver
Mounts,
20/
Nickel SHAVING STAND,
Comprising Porcelain Bowl,
Box, and Puff, Shaving Brash,
and 2 Shaving Cases (razors
not included), 15/6.
Hand KIT BAGS, Square Opening, Nickel
Lock, and Lid Clips, Cloth Lined,
12/6 14/6 15/6 17/6.
12in 14in 16in 18in.
SMOKERs’ SkT, Comprising highly polished Nickel
Tobacco Jar, Pipe Rack, Match Holder, and Crystal
Glass Ash Tray. Pipes not included. 15/6-
JEWELLER, 1
IL maker Z
s
0
}
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.813.815.517.GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sfarion) SYDNEY,NSW
SILVERSMITH


The Gillette Safety Razor gives
you the smoothest, easiest and
most comfortable shave.
Xhe velvety-smooth touch of the Gillette is the last
word in shaving comfort. Users of old-style razors
can hardly appreciate what a great advance
the Gillette Safety Razor, has made in
scientific shaving.
Its simple adjustment, enabling a coarse beard to be
shaved as easily as the finest growth , or a tender chin
to be shaved without the least irritation , has brought
easy and comfortable self-shaving within the reach of every man.
There is nothing to learn before you can use the
Gillette —no stropping or honing. It is ready
for use the moment you pick it up.
Buy a Gillette for yourself. It means
a liletime of shaving comfort.
Why not begin now ?
"'Well! isn't that
fine. Never thought
it was so simple.
It’s really no
trouble at all to
shave with the
Gillette
Gillette Combination Set,
s
rrmrrga
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
BRITISH MADE. SOLD EVERYWHERE,
This illustration
shows the Gillette
Combination Set, con-
sisting of Gillette Razor
and 12 blades (24 cut-
ting edges), stick of
Gillette shaving soap and
brush, in velvet - lined
morocco case. There are also
Gillette Standard Sets
and Pocket Editions.
Write for
Illustrated
Booklet
“ Hints on Shaving ” and “ The Razor’s
Edge and How it Shaves,” sent post
free. Mention this paper.
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., 40-44, Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Works : Leicester, England.
EDIS
r
;
&
m
oj
XL
c
l
0"
f
A
m
PHONOGRAPHS
How dearly the children love music. To them it is a wonderland ot
delights, ever-welcome.
To give them such perfect entertainment, in a manner worthy of it, no
better way could be thought of than by the Edison Phonograph. The
expanding hearts and minds of the little ones will delight in the melody
and sweetness of the world’s masterpieces, rendered by star artists,
even though they may not comprehend their meaning; the comedy
which the headliner humorists provide will'be enthusiastically encored;
while the inspiring band marches will never lack appreciation.
YOU OUGHT TO HAVE AN EDISON PHONOGRAPH IN YOUR
HOME. YOU CAN HAVE ONE AT ANY PRICE YOU WISH
TO PAY FROM £3 TO £5O. WRITE FOR COMPLETE LISTS
AND ADDRESS OF NEAREST EDISON DEALER.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
ST
j,.'. -$
“ ELM A.”
THE TIME TO ORDER IS NOW.
IN YOUR INTEREST we ask you to write us now re your proposed soda fountain for next
summer.
For if you delay ordering until the rush of the new season begins, you will perhaps have to
wait before a suitable machine can be erected.
YOU NEED NOT TAKE DELIVERY UNTIL YOU REQUIRE IT.
The man who looks ahead is wise, but he that gets ahead of time is wiser still.
We import or manufacture, as the case demands, for in every instance we supply a plant
exactly suitable to the requirements of your business, and at 20 per cent, less cost than small
jobbers. WRITE AT ONCE "FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS OF OUR EASY TERMS.
Profit-Maßing Outfits for Hotels, Chemists,
Refreshment Rooms, from
£25.
To get the true fruit flavors use our highly concentrated True Fruit Juices.
TRUE FRUIT JUICES in large or small parcels. More Customers at Less Cost.
The Latest American Automatic Carbon »tors of Drawn Steel, Sheet Tin=Lined,
make crisp Soda-water at £d. per gallon without any attention from operator.
We have just installed the largest Soda Fountain in Australia, at the
Crystal Palace, for The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co. Ltd.
We send our experienced man to erect without extra cost.
NELSON CARBONATING CO. L“-
167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


NEW WATCH BRACELETS
AT
STEWART DAWSON’S.
■
There is no article of personal adornment so useful as a good
Watch Bracelet. It not only adds an elegant touch to your costume,
but you make use of it frequently during each day. Use and Beauty
combined.
We manufacture our own goods; we import direct from our Hat-
ton Garden Centre; we sell our own goods direct to the public. This
means that you j*ay only one profit.
No. JBl20 —-9ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with Fine Quality
LEVER WATCH,
£6/10/-
h
ĥ
No. J74B2—9ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 15ct. GOLD
3-plate LEVER WATCH,
£7/7/-
No. C 5995 —15ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 18cit. GOLD,
High Grade, Full Jewel-
led Lever Movement,
£l7/10/-
:
<
CO
s
No. J7B6s—Oct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with Fine Quality
Full Jewelled WATCH,
a Reliable Timekeeper,
£5/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. JBll7—9ct. GOLD
EXPANDING WATCH
BRACELET, with Full
Jewelled Lever Move-
ment, £B.
ħ
1
No. J 7724 —15ct. GOLD
EXPANDING BRACE-
LET, with 18cti GOLD,
Full Jewelled LEVER
WATCH, £l4/10/-
No. J7Tl3—Oct. GOLD
and ENAMEL Full Jew-
elled LEVER WATCH,
with Leather Strap, £4.
a gs
'
' f gMlHflQjj
!
-as
• Si
I=s
LADY.’Sj GOLD BRACE-
LET WATCH, in 15ct.
Gold Case, £7/7/-
In 18ct. Gold Case, Half
Hunting Design, £ll/10/-
Otlier Styles, from
£6/10/-
“THE TREASURE HOUSE.’
Stewart Dawson & Co.
(Australia) Limited,
WE ALWAYS
PAY THE
POSTAGE.
Strand Corner, =
412 George Street, Sydney.
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
mzi
tern
Postage. — Victona9<J ;
Other States i/-
m
s';
u»4>:.
®mmt*
Nets,
Balls,
Presses,
Etc.
Racket
, Repairs.
Strings.
g pEC I ALT I ES. —The Risley Hexagon Racket—English
IVlade. Its special design gives enormous strength and driving
power, combined with balance. Double Mains. Positively the best
Racket for volleying and driving— The Driva. World-renowned for
excellence of materials, evenness of tension and perfection of balance.
HAS WON OVER 25 CHAMPIONSHIPS.
Davis’s Slazenger’s Pastime 18/6 Ayre’s Handicap - 17/6
Risley Hexagon 42/- Demon- - 18/- Ward & Wright’s 25/-
Shand Special 42/-' Renshaw - 13/6 Bussey’s Alpha - 5/6
Williams’s Driva - 42/- Ayre’s S.N.D. - 40/- Alert- - -7/6
Tournament - 30/- Wilding - ■ 37/6 Prosser’s Club 27/6
Slazenger’s Doherty 35/ Gryalla - - 32/6 Association - 22/6
E. GM. - 30/- Champion - 22/6 Pluto - 17/6
GET OUR LIST OR CALL
ALCOCK & PIERCE, 318 Lit. Collins St., Melb.
Carry an Onoto with you
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills
itself in a flash, cleans itself in the act of filling, and
contains sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
Never leaks—always writes smoothly—and is always ready for
writing. Can be filled from any ink supply without a filler, without
mess or trouble, in five seconds.
h
ĥ
Onoto
self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
The Onoto is fitted with a large gold nib which is
iridium pointed, and therefore practically indestruc-
tible. It is British made by British labour. Get
an Onoto now —Price 12/- and upwards. At all
stationers, jewellers, stores, etc.
IfIPORTANT.—For those who require a larger pen with
a very flexible nib, a special model —the new G, has been
on the market. It exceptional value for the money,
'lry this new G at your stationers.
Booklet about it free from T. De La Rue
& Co., Ltd., 219 Bunhill Row, London,
E.C., or the Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
12s.
One of Victoria’s new immigrants is a
man of parts, who has seen things. Proba-
bly for that reason he didn’t begin advising:
Australians how to manage their affairs
almost before his feet had left the gangway..
He was born in London’s East End, and fol-
lowed the sea long enough and discerningly
enough to witness a fair slice of every coun-
try in Europe except Russia; also, he took,
a glance at India and Persia. Then he
shipped as one of three white men on a
crazy tiOO-ton steamer for Para, with a crew
of negroes. Being wrecked and detained at.
Las Palmas for three months, he filled in the
time by learning Spanish. At Para he
joined one of the steamers running up the
Amazon, but left that job to engage with an
exploration party under a certain or hazy
Count de la Verde. In the next 12 months
he and the party covered considerable of the
interior, touching at Cameta, Santarem,
Manaos, Albacaxis, Carinis, San Joao and
other sizeable townships. A.fter that, he
passed southward through Rio and Monte
Video to a big ranche near Punta Arenas,
on the straits of Magellan, within cooee of
the Plorn. Tiring of that, he tottered back
to London, but found the place and condi-
tions too stifling. Now lie is soil-tickling in
Victoria’s western district, where the open
spaces and bracing fresh air should hold him
a while.
“Harrison O.” sends an art note: —
An exhibition of water-colors at Melbourne Athen-
aeum, by John Sommers, sen., is a tribute to the
boundless energy of the artist. The strenuous worker
who paints anil exhibits 209 pictures is doing an
injustice to his family, in pursuing art at a time when
a decent sleeper-cutter can knock out 80s. a day.
The demand for railway sleepers is enormous all
.over the world, but the demand for art is not worth
mentioning. The collection of pictures under review
comprises Melbourne street scenes, and views by river,
sea and bush. Some of the former are rather neat,
notably “Queen’s Bridge,” “Post Office,” “The Gate
of the City,” and a sort of Venetianised impression
of Klinders-stre.pt station. There are others that
are more architectural than artistic. The rural
subjects are for the most part unimpressively handled.
“A Market Gardener’s Home” and “The Distant
City” belong to the Christmas-colored supplement
variety of art, and “Giant Gum Trees at Mount
Buffalo” (a subject for a Heysen) fills one with the
same sort of regret that is inspired by the sight of
the girl you could have kissed but didn’t. “The
Glowing Sky” is a regrettable circumstance, such as
might be produced by a kid playing with a paint
box, and it doesn’t deserve to be included in the
same exhibition with “River Haze,” a pleasing com-
position in harmonious low tones. Having regard to
the small prices at which most of the works are
marked, this writer would again remind the artist of
the comparative affluence which lies ahead of a com-
petent sleeper cutter.
“P.E.G.” : The vast difference between the
definition of Socialism in Webster’s earliest
and latest editions is suggestive. Socialism
used to he “a projected state of society in
which revealed religion is ignored and many
radical changes in the government of men
are advocated.” Now, according to Webster,
it is “a political and economic theory of
social re-organisation, the essential feature
of which is governmental control of economic
activities to the end that competition shall
give way to co-operation, and that the op-
portunities of life and the rewards of labor
shall be equitably apportioned.” So even
dictionaries live- and learn.
The plaint of “Henri Singemoine”:
For some obscure reason it is not considered
respectable m Liberal circles to talk unkindly of
trusts or Combines. Anything of the sort is regarded
as Social.stic. This is a splendid thing for the
trusts, tt puts them in the position of a burglar
who has the whole suburb wherein he works pledged
to secrecy as regards his operations. You hear
complaints, and embittered ones, too, concerning the
tariff, alien restriction legislation, disrespect to the
Flag, the arbitrary conduct, in and out of Parlia-
ment, of Speaker Willis, of N. S. Wales, and 10 000
other comparative trivialities, but in regard to’the
institutions which are tyrannising over and robbing
the citizens, every day of their lives, of material
comforts, hardly a hostile word is uttered. There
is no business so small, these enterprising times
but the Trust element pushes into it. For example’
T wanted some printing done the other day. 1 asked
a firm to quote for the job, and the manager said
£45. It struck me as excessive, so I tried another
firm, and another and another, and yet another.
They all said £45. Then a friend explained to me
that I was bumping against a Combine, and he also
told me of a lonely printery which he had reason to
think was outside the ring. This concern engaged
gladly to do the work for £3O. As another instance,
I live in an eastern suburb, and get mv papers from
an agent, who lives some way off. The boy whom
the latter employs to deliver ithe goods is habitually
late with them: there have been occasions on which
he hasn’t turned up at all, and I have been forced
to go for hours in ignorance of the results of Test
matches, London murder trials, and such-like absorb-
ing items. Maddened, I called at the shop at last,
and formally withdrew my custom. The agent didn’t
seem perturbed; in fact, he treated my demonstra-
tion of independence and exasperation with a sort
of bored contempt. I swiftly learned the reason
why. He belonged to an agents’ “ring,” which had
the surrounding country mapped out and apportioned
among the trade. I had been allotted to him and his
accursedly dilatory employee, and, by the terms
of the Vend, no other agent was allowed to serve me.
These weren’t tariff matters, for you can’t import
your job printing at short notice, Or get your local
paper sent you from the U.S. I could cite, off hand, a
dozen other examples of the way the Trust arrange-
ment operates to hamper my freedom of action, and
make me pay anything from 25 to 100 per cent, more
for things than I should, but I daren’t mention them
among my friends. The subject is taboo. It is
allowable to deplore in general terms the increased
cost of living, and to remark vaguely that “Federa-
tion is to blame,” but no one may go into details in
the matter of raised prices, and remain genteel. I
am thinking of organising a society which shall be
pledged to speak quite openly and frankly regarding
vends large and small. But I fear it will be a
failure. Its members will all be cut by the Best.
People so soon as they start telling the truth, and
will, consequently, be driven to expound the position
to each other. Which will be absurd and futile and
productive of no good results whatever.
J. J. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet has
made its 37th annual appearance, with its customary
mass of information, or even more so'. The hopeful rac-
ing punter is l bound to get the PAMPtiijE'r for its details
of performances of horses nominated for the Metro-
politan and Cups. And the man who poses as an
encyclopaedia of sporting facts and figures wants the
little book to bring his knowledge up to date. An
interesting addition to the old stock of details is a
table, on page 190, giving the stake of
notable Australian racehorses. Carbine, with
£29,476, is still £9OOO in front of. Trafalgar, who
has already outfigured Poseidon. Wakeful, Prince
Foote and Comedy King come next in that order.
Carbine was only once unplaced in 43 races, and
Wakeful had her number hoisted somewhere oh the
board 41 times out of 44. But Comedy King, who
started 28 tipies for a £12.945 result, was 13 times
unplaced. The record of The Parisian is even more
natehy than that. The well-kept gelding has started
34 times : for six wins,, seven seconds, three thirds and
18 nowheres —result in stake money, £8905. Apropos
the inconsistency of The Parisian’s performances,
it may be remarked that, although the Melbourne
Cup handicapper rates him 31b. lower than Trafalgar,
punters are advised to put their sox and other under-
garments on the rare occasional gelding the first
time he is heavily backed against Trafalgar in a
w.f.a. race.


4/
/V
: /• Tin
r
li /
S «i
.'V\ \
/
* '* \
53»3
; '.-
?#4r
S»£
'•%
f
V;3
~N
O’
rr
-yX/V'
#regsS
X
.J-f}
•■--'?
■>
s“&
?5>
<T>
XZ.f’^rvk
(*»
3%
i-*3S
-•••
>x
iSSSS
N
7*5
**»**«^
y&
4*5
M
m
'J&f?
%
ss
-.t''
4Z.
yf : .
A
W 1
;r~
r ''- /s* ■& ?£
>1 *. n If !
■ 5 ; 11 N .’
* * v y l 5 l >
Cobrfit,” Sfte Boot Polish.
o o
under Loo
Akim Foo
Takes the ball of
Leather thro’.
Tho’ they rush and
Tackle low,
Chunder wriggles
Past the foe
Till he dashes
O’er the line.
Then the football
Does he shine,
Saying to the
Chaps around,
“‘COBRA’ keeps the
Leather sound 1 ”


Australian Ladies Blackmailed.
PARDONABLE INDISCRETION HEAVILY
AVENGED.
A woman who has once committed a certain very
natural and pardonable indiscretion is ever after-
wards at the mercy of her own act, unless she learns
—as will be shown in a moment—how to free her-
self.
It is a very obvious figure of speech to say that
any lady who, afflicted by superfluous hairs on face
or arms, once uses a depilatory or cuts off the hairs
with scissors or ;a razor, can only be freed from the
effects in one way. Unless it is treated again and
again with the cutting steel or the burning paste or
fluid, it will crop out again and again and humiliate
her by its degrading, masculine appearance. Just as
a human blackmailer must be paid again and again,
so this silent blackmail of superfluous hair must be
dealt with again and again.
The only escape is by destroying the enemy at the
root: and this can only be accomplished in one way.
She must send for a self-acting electrolvser which
Mme. Tensfeldt, 120 a Princes Street, Edinburgh,
Scotland, has invented specially for the benefit of
ladies who cannot go to her for treatment. This
apparatus, which only costs £5 55., carriage paid,
will dissolve painlessly the root of every individual
hair. The hair cannot possibly reappear on the same
root: and this work is quite simple and painless.
When the apparatus has done its work it can be
sent back, and 255., the second-hand value, will be
returned in exchange for it, provided this is done
within six months.*
Tired and worn out? Restore your lost energy —
Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract increases your
vitality—makes the daily tasks a pkasure—feel fresh
when through.*
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton."
YOU’LL PREFER
TO WALK!
The “Pibro”
211-
ħ
FOOTWEAR
Standard styles; those that are
seasonable at all times; new flat
lasts or modified high-toe styles; in
fact, every style that has the call of
popular favor and that make for greater
comfort. BLACK, PATENT or TAN
LEATHER. May we send a pair on approval?
CATALOGUE |j£E ON REQUEST.
h
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED, Brisbane
IN
BANANA LAND
People don’t die off so very fast after all
in the torrid North. At a recent wedding at
Rockhampton, the years of the bride and
bridegroom added together were 146, and
those of the two witnesses made about 140
between them. After all, it is not so very
wonderful. All the world’s heroic efforts in
the way of longevity were made in hot
countries. Probably Methuselah never saw
snow in his life, and no one has ever alleged
that Noah went round wrapped in a fur
overcoat in Scotland.
“Don Q.”: The Meat Commission has
made the public sit up with a shudder. The
different- witnesses have wallowed in a veri-
table jungle of diseased meat, dirt, flies and
insanitary offal. State inspection of private
abattoirs is proved to be a farce. Not one
bullock in 10 is examined, the staff of in-
spectors being numerically inadequate to
perform the job, amongst other things. A
point on. which all hands are agreed is that
an overwhelming case has been made out
for public abattoirs. In other respects,
opinions differ weirdly. One city doctor
caused a sensation by informing the commis-
sion that it was not dangerous to eat dis-
eased meat! He had seen meat-joints brought
to his own house showing evidence that
certain tuberculous parts had been cut out of
them. Whether the medico personally ate
any of the stuff did not transpire.
“Yalgun”: Died recently at Warwick,
under the accusation of having weathered
106 years of rum and open air, one Richard
Aldridge, better known as “Singing Dick.”
He was borri at Wapping, London, some
time after the close of the Middle Ages, and
effected a landing in Australia by braving
the sharks and whales of Moreton Bay, and
swimming ashore from a transport. He
utilised his freedom thus won to take up
the life of a fossicker on the Tooloom dig-
gings in N.S.W. Here, by his inveterate
habit of singing “Ben Bolt” at every dance,
wedding and christening over a period of 55
years, he earned his tuneful sobriquet. He
doesn’t appear to have earned much else, but
Iris retentive memory or vigorous imagina-
tion held local interest to the last. If he
wasn’t 106, he probably deserved to be.
Brisbane breeds a quaint class of humor-
ous drunks. T’other day one of the genus
explained his gyrations on the Queen-street
pavement by mentioning that his legs were
crooked, while another told the P.M. that
he assaulted the police because it ivas Iris
birthday.
“Matrix”: When the recent drought was
on, Education Minister Grant, of Banana-
land, told the teachers that they could not
expect anything in the way of a rise “unless
it rained.” Now it has rained —rained not
merely cats and dogs but the entire Noah’s
ark. Soaked elephants have fallen, and
tanks, and drowned eagles, and bogs,
and oceans and whales. Grant, on
his attention being drawn to the
flooded state of the country, remarked
that he did not think “the good seasons
would open the heart and purse of the
Treasurer,” and then passed briskly on to a
discussion of the Department’s
tion scheme for teachers. To be promised
a rise, and in its place to merely receive
word of a superannuation scheme, is worse
than the gift of a brick or a sick headache
where bags of gold were expected.
FACES AND FACES.
MR. PINCH (as Horatio Slaweski, the heazy villain, passes): “Bad face that bloke's got,
did yer notice, Bob?”
MR. PUNCH: “Yes!”
During the late beer-strike at Winton, the
publicans entered into a bond according to
which any one of them who cut the board-
and-lodging rate below 21/s. a week (think
of supplying board and lodging at remote
Winton for less than 245., and then com-
plaining about the high cost of living!)
should forfeit £5O. But after the beer-
liandles had rusted for a few days, one man
—perhaps it was Blewrewin, who ran the
Dog-Poisoners’ Arms—broke away, and cut
the rate to 225. Immediately the Winton
unionists, who all denounce a “scab” as the
lowest creature on God’s earth, put a hand-
some premium on “scabbing” by rushing the
bar of the individual who had ratted on the
Beer-sellers’ Union and imbibing a fabulous
quantity of swankey. The spectacle was
too much for the other Winton publicans.
Slowly and sadly they lowered the rate to
225., and marvelled how it came that the
straightest of straight Labor men could
encourage the introduction of anti-union
principles into the great snake-seeing in-
dustry.
“Ivobbi”: We have a press letter-writer
over here who, in the matters of long-winded-
ness, mixed metaphor, obscurity and a few
other similar circumstances, has your Mr.
Abbey Dangar “licked to a frazzle,” as the
cultured Yank would put it. One who
signed himself “A Tehcher” took to the
ink-bottle recently, with'the result that his
pen bolted with him, and he crashed wildly
into the Brisbane Courier, as follows: —
Yes, there is abundant matter for a writer capable
of massing his facts with force and effect, for one
able to describe graphically the man who, full of
hope in his early years and happy in the belief, as
his family increases, that he will ultimately pluck
a plum from the tree that grows in the garden of the
State, and thus provide for the comfort of his de-
clining- years when that inevitable demon Retire-
ment comes to claim his own, utterly regardless of
the question whether he is physically fit, or not —
a question that should not be lost sight of when the
Superannuation Bill comes before the House, and let
Mr. Barlow be used as an illustration.
Did the most frantic of Empire Day func-
tions ever inspire Bruce Smith himself to
anything equalling the above? If so, I
haven’t heard of it.
In Topsy-Turvydom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I fancied late in Topsy-Turvydom,
I sighted Lazarus, who used to crawl
To Dives’s table for a casual crumb,
Or fight for bones the dogs within his hall ;
The same who gave the wandering curs his sores,
And in his sorrows wondered how the rich
Could spurn the poor in anger from their doors,
And let them die like vermin in a ditch.
This Lazarus sat high on carven chair,
In purple robed, before a sumptuous board,
And all the diners smiled and spoke him fair,
And all the menials bowed and called him “Lord!”
The. while there lay, outside his gilded door,
That very Dives who was once so proud;
A beggar’s rags the wretched creature wore,
And prayed for alms the careless-hearted crowd.
And Lazarus would pass him daily by,
And heed his piteous outcry not at all:
“My brother’s keeper,” said he, “am not I;
Give him the crusts from out the servants’ hall.”
I
And when they murmured, “Dives there is ill,”
Proud Lazarus would say in careless speech:
“These beggars are too prone to stuff and swill
And then cry out in colic for a leech.”
And hearing once the mendicant was dead
He passed the news on with an idle jest:
“A pleasant change to leave his gutter bed
And lie at peace on Father Abram’s breast.”
And when they told him: “Lo, the people sob
That meat is dear and there is dearth of bread !”
He answered: “ ’Tis the way with ev’ry mob ;
Their unthrift brings their troubles on their head.”
And gay of tongue and light of heart was he,
And kissed his laughing leman on the brow
With: “Dearest, care and fret are not for thee,
The happiest Day of Days is here and Now.
“ ’Tis ours to smile beneath the cloudless blue
And taste the good the gracious gods assign
Without a fear what envious Fate may brew,
And quaff the careless cup of Syrian wine.”
And yet ’twas but one little year ago
That he had ta’en his dole without demur ;
Had crouched beneath the pampered menial’s blow
And fought for Dives's leavings with the cur.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 10, 1912.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
We are living in a perfect sizzle of friv-
olity in these parts. Monday was marked
pink on the almanac by the arrival of the
G.-G. His Federal Ex. was met at Pinkenba
by our own Wee, who was supported by a
formidable array of Ministers, soldiers and
other warriors. The Denman lady and her
daughter, Mrs. Barlow, Mrs. Barnes and
Mrs. Macartney also bore a hand in the glad
commotion, with Davy Bowman as ballast.
The G.-G., with his swag and other belong-
ings, including various uniformed aides and
a French maid, was towed aboard the
Lucinda, which dumped the lot at the Ken-
nedy Wharf. Here the vice-regal caravan
was formed up in the presence of the City
Fathers (and Mothers), who compelled it
to listen to a lengthy address of welcome.
The vulgar herd merely peeped over the
railings and shuddered with delicious awe at
the contour of a cocked hat or the flash of a
spurred boot.
On Wednesday, George Five’s understudy
gave a dinner, and the attack was followed
up with a munching party on the following
day. On Friday the whole loyalty of the
village found its way to Merthyr, the
Griffith waterside residence, where the vice-
regal splendor has its temporary abode. At
least 1700 people prostrated themselves .in
adoration before the shrine, and the Cham-
berlain’s voice died to a murky whisper be-
fore he had mentioned the name of the last
guest. Lady Denman shimmered in a lovely
lace frock over-topped by a head decoration
of mauve. Lady Barttelot was robed in
sober grey with a black hat as a finish. Mrs.
William Collins, Mrs. Gilbert Wilson and a
few other favored and happy souls were
specially presented after the last handshake
had been shook.
To-day (Saturday) Lord Denman put
some hundreds of cadets through their paces
in the Domain. Lady Denman and Lady
Barttelot fled away at half-time, and joined
the local authorities in the Museum Gard-
ens, where the usual struggle with tea and
cake was going forward under the eye of
Mayor and Mayoress Raymond.
At the Naval and Military Ball on Tues-
day—an affair, by the way, which shone
with as many spangles as a panto, fairy’s
wings—the Governor-Generaless and the
Barttelot dame were the most simply-dressed
women in the room. Lady Denman went
delicately in powder-blue satin and a quan-
tity of exquisite diamonds, while her com-
panion weathered the disturbance in black
satin. Neither frock was trimmed in any
way; and, after the magnificence of Asiatic
embroidery, passementerie and fringes which
has surged around us all the season, it was
a welcome sight to see greatness wrapped in
such simplicity.
Lady Macgregor has not been well, and
has not been at any of the shows of this
stirring week.
To-night Lady Denman passed out
printed cardboard without end to white-
frocked infants and others who have earned
R.A.M. and R.C.M. certificates. The
Barttelot aide and his wife also occupied
perches on the platform, as did Dr. and
Mrs. Robert Thompson and E. B. Forrest.
The event of the evening was the music ex-
tracted from the fiddle by Elspeth Capper,
a blind girl who recently gained her Licen-
tiate degree.
On Monday afternoon Mrs. Robert
Thompson supplied sustenance to a number
of pals in honor of her sister-in-law, Mrs.
Parker, of Sydney, _ who, with her daughter,
is up here to assist us in our threatened
riots. Another bun scramble was given by
Mrs. Plerbert Perry on Wednesday, and on
Tuesday evening Mrs. Eustace . hostessed a
farewell taking of food with reference -to
the departure of one Skyring, who leaves
shortly for England.
Popular Mrs. Lex Craig is here at pre-
sent, and another Sydneyite attracted by the
illumination of our hamlet is Mrs. Grigor,
who is staying with her daughter, Mrs.
Arthur Perry. All our visitors appear to be
bearing up braimly against the afflictions of
their exile.
Our newest bride, Mrs. Bob Stodart, was
at the Naval arid Military leap on Tuesday.
Through the mazes of that glittering unrest
she carried all her wonted beauty swathed
in emerald green, and at Friday’s garden
party her loveliness breathed out of another
trousseau frock of grey satin.
A croquet epidemic of some virulence has
broken out in South Brisbane. _ Fathers of
families returning home weary in mind and
body have to warm or otherwise prepare the
vesper cutlet, or dandle the fragrant sausage
in the frizzling pan, while. the. suffragette
portion of the household is still occupied
with mallet and hoop.
The inter-State tennis at Ascot is draw-
ing together big crowds of those who love
to watch perspiring activity from a safe
distance. At present the games are excit-
ingly and aggravatingly equal, but the final
matches are reserved for next Saturday,
when the nets of decision will be once more
surrounded by the fluff and chatter of en-
thusiasm, and the fateful clang of afternoon
teaspoons will again be heard in the near
neighborhood of the courts.
On Thursday night dentist Tom England
and his wife gave a two-step in their dainty
humpy at Toowong. I hear that the rose
garden made a satisfactory place for sitting
out. Rose gardens have had a habit of
being satisfactory in that way ever since
the days of Sadi’s fragrant Gulistan. But
talking of sitting out reminds me that one
hospitably-inclined female who danced flap-
pers (male and female) of her acquaintance,
discovered a youthful pair in the washhouse
boiler. They were slightly blacked, but
otherwise hilarious.
The quantity of variegated Governor now
gathered in or near our village has been
augmented. The Chelmsfords, guarded by
two aides, arrived by the mail train to-
night. Captain Foxton and the Rev. de
Witt Batty met them at the station, and
bore them carefully to Bishopsbourne, where
they are to rest under the Archbishop’s
counterpanes and benediction.
Of other minor and major thrills, vanities,
or observances, there have been many. . On
Wednesday, the Bankers’ Sports (I didn’t
win the overdraft event) ; on Thursday., the
younger set dance (a nice boy took me in to
supper) ; to-day the Commercial Travellers’
sports (I watched them by telephone from
Ascot). Two new open-air theatres have
started business, Palace Gardens at North
Quay, and Arcadia at New Farm. Alto-
gether, we are moving rapidly, and we only
want open-air cafes and a place where an
eatable supper may be had before we snatch
the parsley crown from Par- no, I’ll be
modest, and say from Manly.
Yours breathlessly,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


HH m
1 m mmmm
■
wmwm
■
. t
Hi
;
-
m
*
\
: : L
WB.
\
m
/
'!
mi
mm
£
r *
' :
?;yj
!||
XI
XXXX ALI
: . {
msKKBBm
d by.theCascade Brewe
Tasmania; .ft* the Commonwealth*
V „
i • ?***
tr -
m
■
■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ . ■ ■ .
v
T*l
V
ill
■ill
X X i
i
3 m
m
■ is ■ m
■Mi
,—3'
■HBWWHWwWMi - 1
■ '•
a
I
ASCADE ALE, brewed by t.be Cascade Brewery Co., of Hobart, is akin to the ale
of old England, for it is rich in those qualities that promote health and strength.
AGENTS: ,
SYDNEY s C. D’Arcy (Si Co., 474 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Taylor, Fergusson (EX Co., 127 King Street.
BRISBANE : Borns, Philip (&X Co. Ltd.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
a S.S. WAKOOL, via SUEZ CANAL.
Wireless installed. * Twin Screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION. AMIDSHIPS.
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
r.ON DON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN k NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SA .DfcltSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON k CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide k Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth' Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries. .
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.'
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HHAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers S Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370 000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FOUSYTIT, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,687
GRANTS DRAFTS
bS' S 3
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Rank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) . . £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C. ‘
DIRECTORS — Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. I!.
Myles, Esq.; Makk Sheldon. Esq. ; Aiitiibr S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland
Agencies, throughout the Australian Conunonwca/th,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paul Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 106,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091 669 4 ! 6
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 18!)S specially protected '
Directors—j as . Munro, Esq. .(Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnin"
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of 44 per Cent.-per annum
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa. China, the East*
Shipping;.
KT. ID. L.
N ord D eutscher ivloyd
MAIL, STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with UaMndry.
Fares to London : 1., £66 ; 11., £3B/10/- ;TfW. £l5 to £l9
Fares to London: Return—l., £99; 11., £57/15/-;
111., £27, £34/4/-
Return Ticket available for Return via Cape of
Good Hope per Holt’s Blue Funnel Line.
Ist Class, £88; 2nd Class, £66.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from
Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea.
Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Svdtiey ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI k CO.. Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN k SONS, Ltd.. Brisbane k Townsville.
New Zealand Insurance Cu d .
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FI3E and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D'Arcv, J >int Managers.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ĥ
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 26.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 7.
SUEVIC, I’EESIO and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Claes of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Magnificent Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows: —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday.
MACKAY every Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
Passengers for CAIRNS and PORT DOUGLAS join
the T.S.S. MOURILYAN (1350 tons, 16 knots) at
Townsville, and pass through the famous Hichinbrook
Channel on both up and down trips.
Regular Passenger and Cargo Service between Fre-
mantle, Albany, Adelaide, Port Pirie, AVallaroo, Port-
land, Port Fairy, Warrnambool, Geelong, Portarling-
ton, Newcastle, etc.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD ,
Offices at all Ports.
‘Winter Tours to
the Pacific Isles.
A CRUISE TO THE SOUTH SEAS at the
present time of the year is both delightful
and full of interest, and a trip in one of the
Burns, Philp Line of Island Steamers will take you
away from the rigors of Winter to the more con-
genial climes of the Tropics.
Send for our illustrated booklet describing Tours
occupying from 21 to 52 days at a cost of from
to
sdf
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1317.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,085,000
£3,000,000
Richard Binnie, Esq.
£8,085,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
M.L.C., President.
The lion. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, Ivt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
.Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; . Shepheard Edged iff Laidlev, Esq.
H® ad Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., EC.
With 336 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales, 169,
l??.* 0 ! 14 1 » Queensland 48, South Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 57,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq . . . . Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Ivatek, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley. Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, \V. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq. <
Manager : F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . . . 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (Ijutuai Lite
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Garden of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO
UNITED STATES INLAND POINTS, also GREAT
BRITAIN and EUROPE, and AROUND-THE-WORLD
TOURS IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUEZ AND CAPE
LINES.
CHOICE OF ROUTES ACROSS AMERICA with
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGES, at Points of Interest, viz.,
GRAND CANYON, YOSEMITE VALLEY, NIAGARA
FALLS, etc.
S.S. MOANA, from Sydney, Sept. 7.
S.S. AORANGI, from Sydney, October 5.
S.S. TAHITI, from Sydney, November 2.
Sailings every 28 days.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
FULL PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable
at:
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD
259 George Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraph}'.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And AU Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
FORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
teal] North Western Ports. t
B.S. Warilda (8000 tons),
Wireless Telegranhy,
Saturday, September
28, carrying Ist, 2nd
and 3rd Class Passen-
gers.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVIBBE
And Ports North to Osiirns.
S.S. Wollowra. Aug. 17.
' S.S. Grantala, Aug. 24.
S.S. Innamincka, Aug. 31.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter state Companies
on all services subject to coFKHtioffs, which can be
ascertained on application at the Compapy’s Office.
Q. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANAINAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALTERED” ROUTE.
To VANCOU VER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SA]LINGS:
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.S. F.S.
Federal and Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SOMERSET.
11,900 Tons. J. B. HUNTER, Commander.
Will be despatched from
BRISBANE about Aug. 20 I MELBOURNE about Sept. 9
SYDNEY . ~ Sept. 4 | ADELAIDE „ Sept. 13
Tht Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. > Third-class pasengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. .. £4O. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
•To be followed by the ..
*T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE, leaving Sydney about Sep-
tember 17.
T.S.S. DORSET, leaving Sydney about October 15.
*Fitted with Wireless.
For further information see Illustrated Books,
Pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LIMITED, Sidney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN ft CO., LTD., Mel-
bourne and Newcastle;'
ELDER, SMITH ft CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. .TONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Glorious Winter Tours to
h
South Sea
. .. and ...
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by tbe Luxurious
Steamers,
•T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, SEPT. 10.
•T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, OCTOBER S.
*Fitted with Wireless.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Eight throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), *R.M.S. MOANA, September 7. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.
t.s.s. TAHITI, arriving Sydney, October 1.
There is also a service everv 28 davs from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. *Talune, July 30 (Maheno,
from Sydney, July 24, connects.)
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
t 259 George Street, Sydney.
THEOCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
PENSATION. PUBLIC RISK. BUR-
GLARY & PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE Australian Magazine—THE lOMS
HAND. The National Monthly. I’rice, Cil.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


k EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
otte HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modem
Conveniences. Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oral Billiard Table. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
LONDON.
NOWHERE in London exists the
equivalent of this famous Family
Hotel, offering the atmosphere of
a refined English Home rather than
that of an hotel.
Its situation is healthy and plea-
sant, within a few minutes of the
city’s chief attractions by tubes,
motor-’buses, railways and taxi-cab
rank at the door.
Rooms, large, lofty and airy. Wide
corridors —private suites (ew famille),
including separate bathrooms. Every
thinkable modern convenience and
refined luxury. Most convenient for
visitors with interests in the City and
the Provinces, London’s five great
railway termini being within a few
minutes of the Hotel.
Telegrams, “Centellare,” London.
M.B. FOSTER'S
BRAND
SrOM
UNEXCELLED FOR
PURITY,
BRILLIANCY
AND UNIFORMITY.
BUGLE
THE
PROOF of my CIGARS
IS IN THE SMOKING
*
Xtl
BUYERS all over Australia and New Zealand, by their
repeat orders, testify to the gdod smoking qualities,
flavor, and aroma of my Cigars. “ '
To convince yourself, send me an order fbr 100 of any
of the following-:"
IMPERIALS 45/- per 100
IDYLLOS 37/6 „
DIADEMAS 22/6 „
GRAN BOUQUETS 20/6 „
INFANTAS 17/6 „
LEVUCAS 15/6 „
Fmoke 5 or 6 of them, and, if you are not satisfied,
return the remainder to me, and
I WILL REFUND IN FULL THE AMOUNT PAID.
Remit amount with order, and I will deliver Cigars,
all charges paid, to any part of Australia. When order-
ing, state whether you like a mild, medium, or full
flavor. Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any
address on application.
My only address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN ST. MELBOURNE
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
DEPOSITS received from One Shilling upwards. Interest at the rate
of Three Per Cent, per annum allowed on all Deposits up to £3OO.
Agencies now open at local Post Offices
throughout practically the whole of Victoria.
Melbourne, 15th July, 1912.
MELBOURNE AGENCY : 317 COLLINS STREET.
DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting; Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to TIIE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
OXYGEN.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Company
AS pleasure in announcing that it has com-
-1 1 pleted the erection of extensive Works at
Alexandria, near Sydney, for the production of
Oxygen by the Liquid Air Process. The whole of
the plant has been supplied by THE BRITISH
OXYGEN COMPANY, LTD., Westminster, London,
which possesses all the British and Colonial rights
of the Linde Patents for this process, and has estab-
lished Oxygen Works in the principal manufacturing
cities of the United Kingdom.
This plant is now producing in large quantities
Oxygen of unsurpassed purity, suitable for medical,
laboratory and all industrial purposes, at extremely
moderate rates.
Complete outfits are stocked of the most up-to-date
type for welding and cutting steel and other metals
by the Oxy-Acetylene Process.
Agents:
FYVIE (SL STEWART,
225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
362 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, ONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
UNCLAIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
DOUGAL’S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, &c„ &c., price
3/-, 480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
00UCAL&C0.,151-STRAND.LONDON, ENCLAND.
( Kftffthlixh f’rl nyrr 60 Vpnrs.)
A NEW MODEL.
Smith’s "Perfect Speedometer
We have just landed a Speedometer eminently suited to Single-Seated Cars
and Runabouts, registered SPEED TO 50 MILES AN HOUR, and
TOTAL MILEAGE to 9999 MILES.
__ , _ __
Motorists and Prospective Motorists
» l„
Price dE4 Complete.
_________
are invited to inspect it.
Sole Agents-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD. 23°& 25 Hunter Street
THE KEEN, RELIABLE PLUM RAZOR!
ĥ
Write for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG ©. AITH.EN,
For the man who appreciates a close, smooth, easy
shave, the PLUM RAZOR is perfection. It glides
keenly through the most stubborn growth, and keeps
its delightful edge for a very long period! Made
from the finest ringing steel, and delicately tempered,
the PLUM RAZOR makes for perfect satisfaction. It
is our specialty, and, as practical hairdressers, we
unhesitatingly recommend it!
PRICE. 10/G, POST FREE.
The C.& A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
ni<fht; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
Single Razor, Black Handle. 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS
FROM 5/6.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
sapt
9
Si
W.
m.
f i'h • f.rij
■i
WTrV .?
V . o
??.rs
A MEDICAL
BATTERY FOR 35/-
Recognised as one of the finest cures for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Nerve Troubles, and such-like
complaints, is this Improved Medical Battery
which we are offering for the low price of 35/-
It is- strong, reliable and effective in application.
It gives instant relief day or
night, and is pleasant and sooth-
ing—which is more than can be said of some
batteries at double the price. We send it post
free to any address.
SEND FOR BOOKLET.
JERDAN’S,
“My Opticians,"
Opp. Royal Hotel,
AeupAs 924083 £6C
A FASCINATING AUTHOR
The Complete
Works of Guy
De Maupassant
Issued to Subscribers only
... by ...
The Standard Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd,,
Publishers of the Complete Works of
Shakespeare, Balzac, Dickens, Scott,
Thackeray, etc.
IT is a literary event of more than ordinary im-
portance that The Standard Publishing Co. are
able to announce the issue to subscribers of a
complete and admirable translation of the entire
Works of Guy De Maupassant.
Henri Rene Guy De Maupassant is by well-nigh
universal consent the greatest short story writer in
all literature. It was when Baudelaire translated
the short stories of Edgar Allan Poe that the French
attempted to achieve mastery in one of the most
difficult forms of art.
Maupassant and Gautier alone improved upon their
teacher. But Gautier’s chief fame rests upon his
poems and his romances. Maupassant produced a
series of little masterpieces, which are unsurpassed
for ingenuity of conception, for perfection of detail,
and for an almost miraculous adroitness in the pre-
sentation of character and incident within the tiniest
limits. The unwinding of one of his stories is one
of the fascinations of literature.
His stories deal with innumerable details of the
human comedy as it presented itself to Maupassant’s
ever-observant eye. He has given us strange tales of
travel and adventure of weird mystery and awesome
dread, and of the pure comedy that is never far-
absent from human circles. ■
Only a few of these masterpieces have found their
way into English print. Strangely enough, this is
the first collected edition which has ever appeared in
England. It has also been left for the Publishers to
make this edition more complete than the authorised
French edition.
This Standard Edition, in fact, contains many
stories and sketches which have actually never been
republished in France, and are now for the first time
rescued from the oblivion of the magazines in which
they originally appeared.
THE GENERAL FORMAT. —The Standard Edition
is an endeavor to produce a set of the Complete
Works of De Maupassant, which will conform to the
best dictates of style and art.
THE ILLUSTRATIONS. —There are thirty through-
out the set, from original drawings by noted French
and American artists. A number were executed ..by
De Maupassant’s friends- —who declined compensation
—contending that it was an honor for them to show
their admiration in this way for his works.
THE PAPEE.—The paper used in this edition was
specially made, and is, therefore, of one .color and
quality throughout. It is a pure antique, with
deckled edges.
THE PRINTING. —The printing was done from
original type and not from plates. This ensures a
special clearness. A new font of French Elzevir
type, bold and elegant in design and easy to read,
was specially cast for and used in this edition.
There are good margins to every page.
THE BINDING. —It has been our aim to secure
simplicity and quiet elegance in the bindings. The
books ! are handsomely bound in Blue Vellum Cloth,
with distinctive brown and gold title labels.
ANALYSIS OF THE SEVENTEEN
VOLUMES.
IN THE FIRST FIVE VOLUMES the author pic-
tures, with marvellous skill, the Virile novelty of
country scenes, and the comedy and < tragedy under-
lying, the whirl of Parisian life in fashionable dr.aw-
ing-rooms, in studios of art, in greenrooms of opera
and theatre, and in the Quartier Latin of students
and grisettes. ,
THE SECOND SECTION OF FIVE VOLUMES
contains the Romances which caused Tolstoi to hail
De Maupassant as the supreme realist and. romance
writer of his century. Here are found the daring-
explorations of his subtly intelligent mind into the
emotions of the heart of womankind.
THE THIRD SECTION OF FIVE VOLUMES em-
braces the Dramas, Poems and Travels, the last-
named sparkling with gems of description—Meisso i-
nier-like pictures in words —of Spanish, Italian, Cor-
sican and Oriental life. The shorter Romances are
also included.
THE FOURTH SECTION contains stories belong-
ing to no one particular phase of life, unless it may
be human passion. Love and laughter, tragedy and
tears run side by side in these two volumes, the last
of the series.
AN APPRECIATION.
Elbert Hubbard writes: —
“This man never wrote to please the rabble. He
wrote because he had a message for the world, and
because Divine Energy forced it through his pen.
De Maupassant wrote with the conviction that in
life there could be no phase so noble or so mean, so
honorable or so contemptible, so lofty or so low, as
to be unworthy of chronicling ; no groove of human
virtue or fault, success or failure, wisdom or folly,
that did not possess its own peculiar psychological
aspect, and, therefore, demanded analysis. If occas-
ionally some intellectual pigmy, after reading,
screams in falsetto, please remember, spontaneity
and mediocrity are never kin. A WARNING : Those
of you who find enjoyment in blue-milk brain-wander-
ings should never De Maupassant. You will
be disappointed. You will not be able to digest nor
assimilate the strong elixir of his mind, so it will
curdle in your gullet—then it's you for mental con-
stipation.”
A FREE BOOKLET.
We have prepared an illustrated prospectus .-of our
Standard Edition of De Maupassant. This ..will be
sent' Post Free' To gll responsible inquirers. The
booklet (TfesdPibes the edition in full detail, and shows
how the matter is arranged in the Seventeen Volumes.
This booklet will be sent to all book-lovers and liter-
ary students who use the form underneath.
To The Standard Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd., r
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne; or
228 Pitt Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
Please send me free.-of charge, and without -any
obligation on my part, your illustrated booklet of
The Standard Edition of Guy De Maupassant's Works
in Seventeen Volumes, together with your plan of
easy instalments'.
NAME . .. •
(Please use this form or a. postcard, mentioning
The Bulijetin.)
ADDRESS.


Government Notices.
(COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs.
Melbourne, 20th July, 1912.
TIMBERS FOR COMMONWEALTH
DEPARTMENTS.
fIJENDERS will be received till noon on
X WEDNESDAY, the 21st AUGUST,
1912, for the supply and delivery of the
following timbers, in accordance with
schedules and specifications, which may he
seen at the Office of the Works Director,
Sydney, New South Wales.
Queensland Beech.
Queensland Black Walnut-
Queensland Maple.
Queensland Bally Gum.
Queensland Yellow Wood.
Queensland Silky Oak.
New South Wales ironbark.
Cairns Kauri Pine.
Tenders may be submitted for the whole of
the items required, or for any item separ-
ately.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Timber for
Commonwealth Departments,” and addressed
to the Secretary, Department of Home
Affairs, Russell Street, Melbourne.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister for Home Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, sth August, 1912.
Royal Military College of Australia.
AN EXAMINATION for entrance, to the
Royal Military College of Australia
will be held commencing on the 25th
November, 1912, in each State capital.
Forms of application, and full particulars,
may be had on application to the Command-
ant, Royal Military College, Duntroon, or
the Military Commandant in each State.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary,
Department of Defence.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 31st July, 1912.
Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta Railway.
Portable Engine, Pump and Engine.
SEPARATE TENDERS addressed to
“The Secretary, Department of Home
Affairs, Melbourne,” will be received (ac-
companied by designs and full maker’s
specifications) until Noon on TUESDAY,
the 3rd day of SEPTEMBER, 1912, for the
supply and delivery in ship’s slings on rail-
way trucks at Port Augusta of the follow-
ing plant:—
1 20-h.p. Compound Portable Engine:
1 Steam Engine and Pump (Gunmetal
fitted) to raise 5000 gallons per
hour,
Head 150 feet.
Preference will be given to Australian
Manufactures.
Delivery to be made wfithin three months
from the date of notification of acceptance
of tender.
Tenders should be endorsed : “Tender for
Portable Engine or Pump and Engine (as
the case may be) for Kalgoorlie-Port
Augusta Railway.”
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs.
Melbourne, 31st July, 1912.
Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta Railway.
Cranes.
SEPARATE TENDERS addressed to
“The Secretary, Department of Home
Affairs, Melbourne,” will be received (ac-
companied by designs and full maker’s
specifications) until Noon on TUESDAY,
the 10th day of SEPTEMBER, 1912, for
the construction and delivery in ship’s slings
on railway trucks, one at each port (Fre-
mantle and Port Augusta respectively), of
the following plant:—
2 Locomotive Cranes to lift 5 tons at
14ft. radius, with Tractive power
of about 70001 b.
2 Breakdown Steam Cranes to lift 30
tons at 18ft. radius ;
all to be of 4ft. gauge.
All material in wheels, axles, axle-boxes,
springs, buffers, draw gear, etc., to be ac-
cording to British standard specifications.
Preference will be given to Australian
manufactures.
Delivery to be made within six months
from the date of notification of acceptance
of tender.
Tenders should be endorsed: “Tender for
Locomotive or Breakdown Crane (as the
case may be) for Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta
Railway.”
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs.
Melbourne, Ist August, 1912.
Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta Railway.
Tender for Supply of Chaff, Oats, etc.
TENDERS will be received until Noon
on TUESDAY, the 20th day of
AUGUST, 1912, for the supply and delivery
of the undermentioned forage in ship’s slings
on trucks, Port Augusta, or on trucks at
Goods Shed, Port Augusta:—
100 Tons Prime Wheaten Chaff;
600 Bushels Oats, good heavy Algerian,
or No. 1 New Zealand Gartns;
20 Tons Manger Hay in sheaves about
1001 b.
S Tons Prime Straw in sheaves about
1001 b. , V
Forms of tender, conditions aid schedule
of quantities may be obtained free, of charge
at the office of the Engineer-iri-Chief, Com-
monwealth Railways Construction Branch,
corner Flinders Lane and Market Street,
Melbourne; at the office of the Common-
wealth Public Service Inspector, Adelaide,
and at the office of the Supervising Engineer,
Transcontinental Railway, Port Augusta.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders should be endorsed : “Tender for
the supply of Chaff, Oats, etc., Kalgoorlie-
Port Augusta Railway,” to be addressed to:
“The Secretary, Department of Home
Affairs, Melbourne,” apcf to be accompanied
by the deposit mentioned in the form of
tender.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Legal Notices.
WILLIAM LIMBERV HUTCHINSON.
D URSUANT to an Order of the High Court of
* Justice Chancery Division (in England) made
In the Matter of the Trust* of the Will of THOMAS
STAUGHTON concerning the share of residuary
estate to which WILL/AM LIMBERT HUTCHIN-
SON was entitled if he attained 21 and survived his
mother Mary Hutchinson. And In the Matter of
the Act 10th and 11th Victoria Cap. 96. And In
the Matter of the Trustee Act 1593 (1912 S 018)
and dated the 20th February 1912 whereby the fol-
lowing enquiry was directed namely:—
Who are the persons legally and beneficially en-
titled and in what shares and proportions to the
funds in Court to the credit of “In the Matter of
the Trusts of the Will of THOMAS STAUGHTON
concerning the share of residuary estate to which
WILLIAM LIMBERT HUTCHINSON was entitled if
he attained 21 and survived his Mother Mary Hut-
chinson.’’
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the said
WILLIAM LIMBERT HUTCHINSON if living or if
he died after the 26th of October 1865 then the
legal personal representative of and all persons
claiming under the said WILLIAM LIMBERT HUT-
CHINSON or the issue if any of the said WILLIAM
LIMBERT HUTCHINSON if he died before the 26th
of October 1855 are personally or by their Solicitors
on or before the 19th day of October 1912 to come
in and prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr.
Justice Joyce and Mr. Justice Eve Room 688 at the
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London England or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 29 th day of October 1912 at 12 of
the Clock noon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 29th day of June 1912.
RICH. JOHN VILLIERS,
Master.
FORD, LLOYD, BARTLETT and MICHELMORE,
Solicitors,
38 Bloomsbury Square, London, England.
NOTE. —-William Limbert Hutchinson was born at
Ayr, in Scotland, on the 19th of October, 1818 ; and
on the 20th of September, 1836, he left Leicester, in
England, for Australia.
'TO WILLIAM FRANCIS COLLAERY, late of Bel-
-1 lambi, near Wollongong, last heard of at Palla-
mallawa, in the State of New South Wales, or any
of his Representatives.
TAKE NOTICE that, on the twelfth day of August
instant, an Order was made by his Honor Mr. Justice
Rich, in the suit in Equity intituled Collars v.
Collaery, that a certain portion of land situiued at
Bellambi, formerly the property of Elizabeth Col-
laery, and devised by her to Henry James Collaery
and William Francis Collaery, should be sold, and the
proceeds of the said sale paid into Court. AND FUR-
THER TAKE NOTICE that if the abovenamed William
Francis Collaery, or if he be dead his representatives,
do not come in and establish their claim to a share
in the said land before his Honor Mr. Justice Rich,
in his Chambers, King Street, Sydney, on or before
the ninth day of September, next, all proceedings in
the said suit will be binding on them as if they had
been parties to the said suit, and thereupon the
Court may, if it thinks fit, direct a sale of the
property, and may make all necessary consequential
directions. AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE, that
if the said AVilliam Francis Collaery, or if he be dead
bis representatives, do not come forward to establish
his or their claim to a share in the proceeds of the
said land when sold, before the said ninth day of
September next, the Court may, if it thinks fit, dis-
tribute the whole of the said proceeds to his or their
exclusion, with such reservation as the Court may
think proper. Dated the twelfth day of August,
1912.
OWEN & CHAMPION,
Solicitors for Plaintiff, Wollongong.
And at 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 2nd August, 1912.
SEPARATE TENDERS will be received
until noon on MONDAY, the 19th
AUGUST, 1912, for the following works
a. External Painting to Military Buildings
at LA PEROUSE and HENRY
HEAD.
b. External Painting, etc., to Military
Buildings at PARRAMATTA,
c. Alterations, etc., to R.A.G.A. Store,
GEORGE’S HEIGHTS,
d. Repairs and Painting to Military Build-
ings at BONDI and COOGEE.
Specifications may be seen at the Office of
the Works Director for New South 'Wales,
Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney, to
whom tenders endorsed with the name of the
respective works should be addresesd.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 20th July, 1912.
TIMBER FOR FEDERAL CAPITAL.
TTJ ENDERS will be received until noon on
JL WEDNESDAY, the 21st AUGUST,
1912, for the supply and delivery of the fol-
lowing timbers, in accordance with schedules
and specifications, which may be seen at the
Office of the Works Director for New South
Wales, Customs House (4th Floor), Sydney.
(1) Queensland or New South Wales
Red Cedar.
(2) Celery Top Pine.
(3) Tasmanian Blackwood (Dark
Colored).
Tenders may be submitted for the whole of
the items required, or for any item separ-
ately. x
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Timber for
Federal Capital,” and addressed to the Sec-
retary, Department of Home Affairs, Russell
Street, Melbourne.
KING O’MALLEY.
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Naval College, Jervis Bay,
25 th July, 1912.
TENDERS will be received up to 3 p.m.
on MONDAY, the 2nd day of SEP-
TEMBER, for the supply and delivery of
hardwood timber to Captains Point, Jervis
Bay, for the construction of the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College buildings. Specifica-
tions and conditions of contract may be seen
on application to the Department of Home
Affairs, Courthouse, Nowra, the Resident
Engineer’s Office, Iluskisson, N.S.W., the
Postmaster, ’Wollongong, and the Works
Director, N. S. Wales, Customs House, 4th
Floor, Sydney.
Tenders to be endorsed as above, and to
be addressed (if by post prepaid) to the
Supervising Engineer, Naval College, Court
House, Nowra, N. S. Wales.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted. Tenders are to be in all
cases on the printed forms, which can be
obtained at the abovementioned offices.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Hoiqe Affairs.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to a Judgment of the
Supreme Court of Quensland, at
Townsville, in an action by Lawrence Brown
against Queensland Trustees Limited, the
persons claiming to be next of kin to Law-
rence Brown, late of Charters Towers, in
the State of Queensland, Dairyman, deceased,
who died on the Twenty-sixth- day of June,
1900, are to come in on or before the fifth
day of February, 1913, and prove their claims
at the Registry of the said Court at Towns-
ville, or in default thereof they will be per-
emptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Judgment. The twelfth day of Febru-
ary, 1913, at 2.30 o’clock in the afternoon
at the said Registry is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated at Townsville the fifth day of
August, 1912.
CHAS. S. NORRIS,
(L.s.) Registrar.
R. J. S. BARNETT, Solicitor for Defen-
dant, Supreme Court House, Townsville.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY. •
Direction. .1. C. AVILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS QUINLAN GRAND OPERA CO.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 17.
RETURN OF
TH E BL U E B I R 1).
Maeterlinck’s Work of Genius.
SCENES OF AMAZING BEAUTY.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
x II E A T RE R O Y A 1,, S Y I) N E Y.
* Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF OTHELLO.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING.
THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR
NOTABLE SHAKSPEARIAN PRODUCTION
PLAN FOR MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR AT
PALING’S.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
Sub-Lessee and Director: ALLEN DOONE.
ALLEN DOONE and MOLLY BAWN.
Every Evening. Every Evening.
The Play the Ladies Love.
ALLEN DOONE and MOLLY BAWN.
Every Evening. Every Evening.
Hear Doone’s New Songs: “Molly’s Eyes are Irjsh,”
“ Colleen Bawn,” “ Molly liawn ” and “ A Toast to Erin.”
PRICES : 4/-, 2/6 and'l/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
National amphitheatre, Sydney.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Australia’s Own CARRIE MOORE ; America’s Greatest
Comedians, BUDD & CLARE; GUS HARRIS, THE
FIVE BOHEMIANS, ROYA & RIC.JAN, THE SIDDONS,
and Full Company of Star Artists.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 17.
Direct from London. First Appearance of
LA LIE BROOKS,
England’s Greatest Comedienne, introducing “ Feminine
Fads and Fancies.”
AD EI,P II I THEA T R E. SYDNEY
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE GIRL WHO LOVED A SOLDIER.
ANOTHER GREAT LONDON PRODUCTION.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 17.
For the First Time in Australia.
THE GIRL WITHOUT A HOME.
Produced by GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
■J* H E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCEB’S PICTUBES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
O Y D N E Y (TIYT i A K I Tj~M.
BEAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12 a.m. 3 to 5 p.m. 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2/- SKATE HIRE—6d.
Children Admission —Morning and Afternoon only, 1/-
Saturday Morning: Admission—Children, 6d.
’Phone: 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction: H. PUGLIESE.
HOUSE OE CONTINUOUS
EXCLUSIVE PICTUBLS.
PEOPLE’S PRICKS. 3d., 6d., Is.
The imperial roller rink,
Foot o. WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW OPEN.
FEATURING ALL THAT IS BEST
ROLLER SKATING.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Q EYMPIA AND PRINCESS, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTI ELS, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE-SATURDAY.
DE GROF.N’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” Trade Mark of
Kay’s Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6<i.
M
ISS MARY P R O-r T n d
THE DISTINGUISHED LADY ASTRONOMER
(Daughter of the late Richard A. Proctor).
AUSTRALIAN LECTURE TOUR
(Direction of DIX & BAKER LTD.)
SYDNEY : Y.M.C.A. HALL, commencing AUGUST 19
(six nights).
J- WALLACE BROWN, Representative.
f? ICKA R D S’ TIV O L I THEATKt
General Manager: MR. .JOHN C LFFTF
EVERY EVENING AT S. '
RICH & RICH. Real Racy Comedians
THREE SISTERS SPRIGHTLKY, Burlesque Artistes
MISS JESSIE STUART, Vocal Comedienne
AUBREY MALLALLIEU &CO., in their Comedy Plavlets
ALEC HURLEY, English Coster Impersonator
THE STAVORDALE QUINTETTE, Banjo and Harp
Specialists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites
PRICES —Ms., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s
o PR K A H ° u S E. M~E L BOUK N't'
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
THE HANS PAXTON TROUPE, Ground Acrobats.
MISS NELL A WEBB, the American DEeuse.
MOZZETTO, the Great Juggler.
THE FOUR AMARANTHS, Whirlwind Dancers.
LA FREYA, in a Series of Beautiful and Artistic Visions.
ARDO, the Human Frog.
Plan at Allan’s. SM^PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
LI KIC Til EAT ItE, Chape! St., Prahran, Vie.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack. Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. Cd. to 2s. Plans at
M. Read's and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Sole Direction : ALLAN HAMILTON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 17.
PLIMMER-DENNISTON CO.
in
The Famous Comedy Drama,
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER.
Prices 5/-, 3/-, ]/- Plan at Allan’s.
TH E KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
Charles Darrell’s Thrilling Dramatic Romance,
THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BIT.
The Play which is Attracting Thousands Nightly.
Powerfully presented bv WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
including CYRIL MACIvAY.
Popular Prices : 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plans : Allan’s & The Grand.
Booking Fee 1/- extra.
Y L U N N C ONCER T S
J. & N. TAIT
announce with pleasure the Australian and New Zealand
Tour of
THE WORLD-FAMOUS SINGER,
MADAME lURKBY LUNN,
GREATEST DRAMATIC CONTRALTO OF OUR TIME.
“ A voice of Purple Velvet shot with Gold.”
—Birmingham Post.
Supported by a
Brilliant Combination of Distinguished Artists.
ANDREW SHANKS, Baritone.
MAUDRE DE RIBAUPIERRE, Violinist.
WILLIAM MURDOCH, Pianist.
MELBOURNE CONCERTS :
TOWN HALL, AUGUST 24, 28, 31 ; SEPTEMBER 3 and
5 (Matinee).
SYDNEY CONCERTS:
SEPTEMBER 12, 14, 17, 19 (Matinde) and 21.
Box Plans : Melbourne at Allan’s ; Sydney at Nicholson’s.
|ciGLi D i " O.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM.
EVERY
AFTERNOON
EVENING.
AND
REASON POSITIVELY CLOSES AUGUST 31.
B| JO U THEATRE, M ELB OURN E.
Sole Lessee & Manager : WILLIAM COSGKOIt.
10MMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 17.
WILLIAM COSGROVE presents
THE GREAT SOUTH AFRICAN MELODRAMA,
HIE FIGHTING CHANCE.
Suggested to the Author by Richard Dehans
Famous Book, THE DOP DOCTOR.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
K It MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE RETURN OF MUSICAL COMEDY.
A STRONG CAST OF FAVORITES.
Reappearance of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in
[HE QUAKER GTE, L.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-_
t v lvi P T A OLY iVI P I A.
5 1 Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
7IIERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
n/ES T’S PA LAC E, MELBOURNE
nr RFW W EST’S PICTURES, THE best
iV fS IJMITED. or ALt
and All Holidays at 2.30.
'hr Greatest Pictorial .Enterprise in the Worw.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
,nv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
verv week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen ■
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have something to sa.v
take the slight trouble to learn how to make it properly heard.” William Ewart
THE DISTINGUISHED ACTOR
WALTER BENTLEY
.OP WORLD-WIDE FAME
TEACHES BY POST, or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Specialty. Many engagements m»ae.
All further information and arrangement of time of Pr *^ at e Tuition amdFee« can be aseert
application at the College or by letter. 554 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.


Zjfja
Connoisseur’s Cigarette
Jhree Witches
vi
(OA,
VIRGINIA
rGARETTES
3T
v
C D./MORRIS
&sonsL t p
LONDON B.
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette
Possesses a Fragrance of Unique Excellence
Price 5/- per 100, Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when ordering.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR '
COUGHS .
fiW)ridqe’s
UfunriM
jungMc
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
When purchasing, ask for “OWBRIDGE’S”
and take no Substitute.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.,
HULL. ENGLAND.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
MEPHISTO
Copying Pencils
are made by L. & C. Hardtmuth,
which is the strongest guarantee
of pencil excellence that can be
offered. The ‘ ‘ Mephisto " writes
-moothly, yet gives a really sharp
impression. For manifolding
purposes no other pencil is
nearly so good.
HARDTMUTH’S RUBBER
is the best for all erasive pur-
poses. Artists should use the
Grey, but for offices, &c., the
Pink is recommended.
“KOH-I-NOOR” RUBBER BANDS
Strongest—Most Economical.
From Stationers, &c„ throughout the World.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
Dominion Accordeons
Are High-Grade Musical Instruments
and excel in their beauty of design,
solidity of construction, exactness of
tuning and superior quality of tone.
They range in price from 12/- to
m
Dominion Accor-
deon, No. 117,
Size IIK x 6}4 ins.
Three sets reeds,
three acting stops.
Ninefold Triple Bel-
lows, with all cor-
ners metal bound,
polished ebonised
tops and mouldings.
Fitted with Brass
Amplifying Trumpets
on keyboard, very
powerful tone.
Price, 29/-
Ask for Complete Illustrated Catalogue
And name of nearest Agent.
Jackson & Macdonald
Druitt Street, Sydney
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD.,** LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ħ
THE PICK OF THE FAMOUS DARLING DOWNS
IMPORTANT SUBDIVISION AUCTION SALE.
At Warwick, Queensland, Wednesday, 30th October, 1912.
On Account of the Scottish-Australian Investment Co. Ltd.
Talgai West Estate
22,500 Acres. 4000 Acres Under Lucerne
Subdivided into 102 Farms of from 100 to 300 Acres, all Admirably Adapted
for Dairying, Wheat Growing and Mixed Farming.
Splendid Climate-Elevation, 1500 Feet. RAINFALL, inches.
EXCELLENT TERMS EXTENDING OVER 17 YEARS. REAL PROPERTY TITLE,
X■ >v~
Situated between the important towns of Warwick and Toowoomba, on the main
Brisbane to Sydney Railway line, with 3 Sidings practically on the property. Connected
by Telephone with Brisbane and all the towns on the Darling Downs. TALGAI YVLtel
is 16 miles from Warwick, one of the most prosperous towns on the Downs, and affording
excellent market facilities.
The Land consists of rich alluvial flats, sloping into chocolate ridges, well sheltered
and nicely timbered.
The Homestead Block is highly improved—two-storey Stone House, etc.
Fourteen Dairy Farms on the estate in full working order. Splendidly watered.
The Dairy Herd (recognised as absolutely the best in Queensland), consisting of
2400 Milking Shorthorns, will be sold by auction before the end of the year. The
January, 1912, return per cow was £1 Is. 4d. for 1203 head, BEING A WORLD S
RECORD.
The Allora Butter Factory is 6 miles from the subdivision by road or rail. There
is a creamery on the property, and railway facilities enable cream to be forwaided o
factories at Clifton, Warwick and Toowoomba.
Terms. — s% cash deposit on day of sale, 5% when possession is given, no further
payments of principal for two years, then the balance in fifteen equal annual instalments.
Interest at the rate of 5% per annum, payable half-yearly. On the Homestead Block the
deposit will be one-quarter cash.
Lithos and full particulars on application.
M‘DOUGALL (Si CO., WarwicKl
MORCHEADS LTD., Brisbane]
Time of Sale—2 o’clock.
Auctioneers
(in conjunction).
N B. —Agents introducing buyers will be allowed a commission of 1 per cent, on
purchases made by them, but the buyer must nominate at the time of sale the agent he
wishes associated (if any).
fr
«v A.vii«, n. *. "» ■* "•
BEWARE
OF
DROPPERS
weakened by holes or cut-out slots ;
THEY SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
IkJ
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
WEDGE-CLIPS AND LOOPS MAY BE USED ON THE SAME DROPPER.
CHEAPEST DROPPER ON THE MARKET.
If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to—
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD,,
18, COURTNEY STREET, NORTH MELBOURNE,
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in brackets are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
THE ROUND TABLE.
The June number contains among other
important articles :
The Brisbane General Strike.
Difficulties of the Labor Party
in Australia .
The Japanese in the Pacific.
Across Australia. By BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A., 1.R.5.,
and F. J. GILLEN, Special Magis-
trate, and Sub-Protector of Abor-
igines for South Australia. With
Colored and other Illustrations and
Maps. In 2 Vols. Bvo. 21s. net.
(255.)
The Globe: “It is no exaggeration to say
that this is the most thorough work on the
Australian aborigines of the interior that has
yet appeared. . .The book is one that will be-
come as valuable as it is interesting.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON GRASBY,
F.L.S., Lecturer on Agriculture and
Fruit Growing, Perth Technical
School. Fully Illustrated. Crown
Bvo. 4s. 6d.
The West Australian: “Likely to make ap-
peal to a very wide circle of readers... Its
statements of fact are characterised by a
simple directness and clarity that cannot be
too highly commended in a text-book of the
kind.”
The Golden Bough. A Study in
Magic and Religion. By _J. G.
FRAZER, D.C.L. Third edition, re-
vised and enlarged. Part V.—Spirits
of the Corn and of the Wild. In -
vols. Bvo. 20s. net. (245.)
MACMILLAN’S
COLONIAL LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6 each.
Cloth Boards, 3/6 each.
new volumes.
599. Marriage. By H. G. WELLS,
Author of “Tono-Bungay,” etc.
614. Mrs. Lancelot: a Comedy of As-
sumptions. By MAURICE HEW-
LETT, Author of “The Forest
Lovers,” etc.
605. Pan’s Garden. A Volume of
Nature Stories. By ALGERNON
BLACKWOOD, Author of “The Cen-
taur,” etc. Illustrated by Graham
Robertson.
613. How ’Twas:
Small Travels.
REYNOLDS.
Short Stories and
By STEPHEN
“The gem of the collection is undoubtedly
the travel sketch, ‘A Third-class Journey.’.. .In
its breadth and ease, in its sureness of touch,
and masterly observation, this ‘Little Travel
piece holds its own against anything we could
cull from Stevenson.” —The Daily News.
612. The Friar of Wittenberg. By
WILLIAM STEARNS DAVIS, Au-
thor of “A Friend of Caesar,” etc.
A tale in which Martin Luther plays a pro-
minent part.
611. The Sign. By Mrs. ROMILLY
FEDDEN (Katharine Waldo Doug-
las).
“ ‘The Sign’ is a good book, well written, re-
strained, and admirably conceived... a novel of
singular power and charm.” —The Sphere.
608. Love Gilds the Scene and
Women Guide the Plot. By
AGNES and EGERTON CASTLE,
Authors of “The Secret Orchard,” etc.
“Mr. and Mrs. Castle make us feel the throb
of the heart beneath the satin and brocade.
They show us once more that an arrant little
jilt may develop in an atmosphere of love into
a generous woman.”—Daily News.
607. The Charwoman’s Daughter.
By JAMES STEPHENS.
“We believe ‘The Charwoman’s Daughter’
marks the arrival of a novelist who will do
great and memorable work in the future. . .It
is to be hoped that ‘The Charwoman’s Daughter’
will be widely and enthusiastically applauded.”
—Standard.
609. The Touchstone of Fortune.
By CHARLES MAJOR, Author of
“Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall,”
etc.
“Mr. Major assembles some excellent proper-
ties of conventional romance, and uses them
with great skill.” —The Daily News and
Leader.
610. Van Cleve. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “Nathan Burke,”
etc.
***A Complete Catalogue of Macmil-
lan’s Colonial Library will be
sent on application.
MACMILLAN 8 CO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.
it „ 4 ne *son who pleads the
“George Street . A P e f “™ ‘ who
cause of the beer-blighted unfoitu 1
are drawn in the police net, tells me a
there is a curious survival from the past in
the pocket arrangement at the back of a
i » „ Tr , a a vs 1 when pride was
lawyers gown. In 4he days-wnen p
a much more robust virtue tth.an it is at p
sent it was beneath the dignity ot an aavo-
cate to receive a fee as a navvy gets his
wa"es The proud one simply walked ahead
~V • ' , • . int-j-pr rm j- his handful
hl i , c^ient .’, ancl . ® .-I,„ hollow in the back
of gold or silver into the hollow in
of h,s supporter s robe The >f a "^ a
sons to whom the walking-in -front habit
would come as naturally as righteous indig-
nation at the aggression of the Australian
Commonwealth.
Mrs. C. Skingley, of No. 1 Victoria-road,
Oxney Green, Writtle, near Chelmsford,
England, wants to hear from her brother,
Ivy Earnden, who was at Uanda station,
Australia (State not mentioned), “some
years ago.” The lady writes to ( The
Bulletin, as she has been told it “would
be sure to know” Mr. Earnden. Australia
being almost as large as Europe, this paper
feels much in the position of a London edi-
tor who is asked to state off-hand whether
Ivan Knoutoff, who used to work on a farm
at the back of Nijni Novgorod, is still alive
and going strong. Still it passes on the
query with its best wishes.


From Head to Foot, Heartrending
to See Them Suffer Such Pain.
Used CuticuraSoap and Oint-
ment and Itching Stopped,
“My three children were covered with
sores from head to foot and hands and arms.
They first came out on the back like a lot
m
of little blisters filled
with water, and then
broke into large sores
till their back, arms and
legs were nothing but
sores. It was heart-
rending to see the little
things suffer with such
pain and they would
scratch themselves to
pieces had they not been
stopped.
“I tried several doc-
tors’ medicines and all
kinds of ointments but
nothing seemed to do
them any good. They simply got worse
until a friend of mine told me to get some
Cuticura Soap and give them a good hot
bath and then apply some Cuticura Oint-
ment. I did and after I had dressed them a
time or two and used two tablets of Cuticura
Soap and two boxes of Cuticura Ointment
the places began to dry up and the itching
seemed to have stopped, as the children could
go to sleep as soon as they were bathed and
the Ointment applied.
“They had suffered about two months until
I started with Cuticura Remedies. I used
six tablets of Soap and about the same of
Ointment and they soon began to look bright
and healthy again, and new skin began to
grow. lam pleased to say they are keeping
so, but I am still keeping Cuticura Soap and
Ointment by me. It is a good thing for scalds
and burns.” (Signed) William Dunn, 145
Branstone Rd., Burton-on-Trent, England.
Mar. 12, 1911.
For more than a generation Cuticura Soap
and Ointment have afforded the most suc-
cessful treatment for skin and scalp troubles.
Sold throughout the world. A liberal sample
of Cuticura Ointment, with 32-p. book on
the skin, will be sent free, on application to
R. Towns & Co., Dept. 27K, Sydney.
An Interesting-
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.ao
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver* sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years'
proven efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh—-unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure Constipa>
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache,
h
Carters
I
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
And Indigestion, as millions know*
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
HOW TO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. .. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. ' My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since .then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Out out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 0 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 6s., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward, hy continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
ĥ
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 BOND ST., SYDNEY.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the ’“ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
&WA
FOUHTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKD, 15 Waltham Building. 24 Bonn St.. Sydney.
ħ
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
Vl£» 2/9 & 4/0. Made in England.
titilcrcdf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like afcharm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
II
II
II
II
II
II
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
0
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
BENGEK’S FOOD Ltd, Otter Works, MANCHESTEB,
ENGLAND. .
Eenger’s Food is sold in Tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere . \
ood
The Inky Way.
Edmund Fisher writes: If I can take credit for
one sincerely serious purpose in life, that purpose
has been the ridiculing of dull Toryism in all its
phases. The hide-bound conservative and inflexible
apostle of “respectability” in politics, social life,
art, literature, journalism or business methods, is
one who stands outside the field of reasonable argu-
ment, and can be touched by derision only. You
must go right up to the fence and “sling off” at the
bigoted Puritan or pompous pedant. My mark for
contumely just now is Archibald Strong, M.A., who
delivers lectures on dead and dreary poets and “ap-
preciations,” on obscure prose pifflers of the past, in
Melbourne Herald. Archibald, aforesaid, had always
struck me as a painful joke, rather than an unpardon-
able mistake, until he »ounted his rostrum —as they
say in the classics —and snorted the snort of arrogant
superiority at a collection of verses from The Bul-
letin, published in book-form as “The Kiss of
Dolly Day and Other Cynical Rhymes for Recita-
tion.” It is my book —this is wh’ere my frank, in-
genuous advt. comes in at Archangel’s Strong’s
expense—and so the criticism came to be brought
under my notice by myself. And what did I read?
How did the learned professor perform, and what
were my feelings! I felt like the dead body of
Caesar when it fell down, and gory treason triumphed
over it. The criticism said:—
“These jingles deal mainly with barmaids, lady
barbers and billiard : sharps, and include a rather
clever parody of Swinburne’s ‘Deserted Garden.’
They also include such a stanza as this, from the
title-poem:—
She would shut her eyes and shiver
When my cheek encountered hers;
To the hugs I used to give her
She replied with gentle purrs,
Like the purring of a leopard
Feasting fondly on its prey—
Nectar,. spiced and eayenned-peppered,
Was the kiss of Dolly Day.
Those who like this kind of thing will find any
amount of it in Mr. Fisher’s volume.”
As a matter of fact only five jingles out of 65
mention barmaid, lady barber or billiard sharp. I
regard the untruthful allegation of A. Strong, M.A.,
as disrespectful to the waitress and chorus girl, who
figure in two other of the jingles, and who should
have been specified in his, snort.
But I’d forgive the egregious scholar all his sins of
criticism if he stuck to criticism and never burst
into song on his superior own. Or if he sang only
of swans and Ulysses and University culture. Un-
happily, he was moved to melody the other day by
the death of Jack McGowan, ex-champion lightweight
boxer. He jingled to the glory of “Fortune’s bloodi-
est bout,” and his ballade (Lord be my witness that
/ never called a ballad a ballade!) —his blessed
ballade was all about pugs, upper-cuts and clouts.
Being inspired with the brilliantly novel idea that no
living fighter can beat Death, the professor set his
machinery in motion, and produced 28 lines of “in
memoriam” poetry. These are the last 12 lines, with
the bard’s initials attached:—
“Neath the ghostly buffeting
Reels our Best, like any lout;
• —Now he’s down: and round the Ring
Sudden dies the backers’ shout;
’Tis the finish, ne’er a doubt!
From the white lips followefh
Slow the life-blood, gout on gout—
None hath beaten Bruiser Death.
L’Envoi.
Fighters, though ye clinch or clout,
Take the count, or spar for breath,
Once he smites, you’re down and out;
—None hath beaten Bruiser Death.
—A.T.S.”
Students of literature may be requested to raise
their hats to that beautiful line, “Slow the life-
blood, gout on gout.” Gout, in the vulgar modern
acceptation of the word, means essence of rheuma-
tism, but its obsolete meaning is “drop.” Ages ago
it signified drop; therefore, Archibald Strong, M.A.,
hath raised the word “gout” from the dead, and
hallowed it. And this literary ghoul dared to
gaze contemptuously on my little book! If he does it
again I will beg The Bulletin to publish a few
quotations from his stodgy prose.
* * * *
“Lionizer”: “B. de B.” (B. 18/7/’l2), refers to a
silly season discussion in English Notes and Queries,
on the longest legitimate word in the English lan-
guage, and quotes “Honorificabilitudinity” as being
several lengths ahead of all other competitors. I
hasten to remind the world that (deep breath!) “Dis-
establishmentarianism” was frequently in use about
10 years ago. It was printed without apology in
such founts of English wisdom as the Nineteenth
Century and the Quarterly Review, besides being
a sort of cascading battle-howl at political meetings.
It beats the dreadful effort of the Scriptural trans-
lator by two lengths.
* * * *
London Times, once a Thunderer, but now a
frankly commercial venture, makes big money by
letting itself out to the boomster with the heavy
purse. The issue of 25/6/’l2 had 16 pages cracking'
up everything South American, and on 28/6/’l2 ap-
peared one of the i iggest things in advertising on
record —a 60-page, full-sized supplement, devoted to
United States railways. Has anybody got an idea
what an ad. like that v,*ould cost ? Pierpont Morgan
and Co., “domestic and foreign bankers,” sprawl over
the back page, a few lines of big print in an ocean
of space.
NOT FOR CASH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the service in the Town Hall, last evening, Dr.
Chapman took an opportunity of denying in toto
the allegation which had frequently been . made
that the mission had come to Sydney only
because the local committee had met their
financial demands. If there were any money left in
the treasury after all local expenses had been met,
they would be glad to receive it; but they asked for
nothing. —Daily paper.
We do not ask for anything,
We shall be fully satisfied
With what the job may chance to bring
When surplus profits we divide;
Shall we for cash exhort and sing?
The charge in toto is denied!
Since Adam ate the tempting peach,
Since devils baste the grids of Hell,
A gospel bright is ours to preach,
An awful warning ours to tell;
And if some pockets we should reach, -
When all is over, it is well.
We keep our wickets up all night,
In meetings where the Devil bowls;
The laborer in vineyards bright
With bunches of converted souls,
Has surely got a perfect right,
When all is done, to take his tolls.
When Christian folk are in the mood,
They love their saintly coin to splash ;
And full collection-plates are good
To rid them of their worldly trash;
But be it clearly understood,
We do not work the game for cash.
The Beef Trust of our native land
Is quite another sort of thing.
If we should end with coin in hand,
It will not spoil the hymns we sing.
We put our trust, you understand,
In what the job may chance to bring.
We have not bargained for our pay.
We shall be fully satisfied
If anything should come our way
When surplus profits we divide;
Shall we for cash exhort and pray?
The charge in toto is denied?
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
Lecel Stores etnd Chemists sell it.
kfadcbyF.CCAL.VERT & Co., Manchester, Em»
V
V
INFLAMATION
of the Knee
CURED BY
Solomon
Solution
“Sometime ago I suffered from
a swollen knee. Constant walking
on the hard pavements caused
inflamation to set in. I consulted
a doctor, but without relief. A
friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION. I am pleased to say I did,
with the gratifying result that
after a few applications I was
cured and have had no return of
the pain since.”
(Signed) J. J. I,loyd.
South Melbonrne.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Store-
keepers and Chemists; post free
for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
A
A
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
TSUI'S
GOUT i
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured "by
BLAIR S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by al l Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
f
PUMP GUN
Solid Breech, hammer- g
less. The only pump
gun made bottom ejecting.
The big advantage of this
important feature is appar-
ent to every sportsman.
There is no opening at top,
sides, or rear —ONLY AT
BOTTOM of solid breech.
Jfo dirt, rain or other for-
eign substance can reach
the working parts. The
solid breech also protects
the shooter’s eyes and face
from all possibility of in-
jury that might result
from defective shells,
etc.
Without question, the
safest and most depend-
able pump gun ever used
in the field.
FOR SALE BY ALL
DEALERS.
Remington Arms—
Union Metallic
Cartridge Co.
H. MOLDEN,
Australasian
Representative,
t’.O. Box 459,
Melbourne;
1349, Sydney.
[4
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” The “Stockport
Remedy” lor Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’
proven efficacy.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand I*gr- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortcage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
ud to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.0.; The Hon. R J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. P. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox. Esq., K.O. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, P.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Turn a New Leaf
Way
New
The
Old
Way
The
cha
€£D C£>
1
Loss
Profit
Because of
Mistakes
Arguments
Dissatisfied customers
No check on assistants
No credit for good work
Temptation of em-
ployees
Forgetting to charge
goods sold on credit
Resulting from
Accuracy
Harmony
Pleased customers
Bnforced records
Shows value of as-
sistants
Removes temptation
Prevents failure to
charge goods sold on
credit
A MODERN NATIONAL CASH REGISTER
TURNS LOSSES INTO PROFITS.
The National Cash Register Company
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED
335 Pitt Street, Sydney
343 Queen Street, Brisbane
281 Murray Street, Perth
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide
Macquarie Street, Hobart
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
h
ĥ
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . in the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2, 1912.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. W. Johnston, Eaglan,
Victoria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1912.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 7.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
CASTRATION EASY
Our Emascurator combines the best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions,
s Colts, Bulls, etc.
SHARPE'S PERFECT EMASCULATOR
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of
best Sheffield Steel will give perfect satis-
faction for many years. IpSfjr'EASY TO USE.
451-
Post Free Anywhere,
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List
ħ
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
There is no mystery or secrecy about it; we describe
it lully and explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and in the
same way you may use this sound magnifier as an
aid to weak hearing. But, unlike spectacles, the
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and
comfortable. You can’t tell you are wearing them.
No one else can, either, because they are not seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off
them—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds.
What a blessed relief to have done with that
tiring strain !
Being made of the purest and softest Para rubber
they cannot be felt, even when the head rests on a
pillow. For the same reason, a blow on the side of
the head will not hurt the ear. In fact, they pro-
tect the ear, the tender inner parts that are so
senstive, from cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing
sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why these
facts are true, and why the Sound Magnifier restores
the hearing, we give an illustration of one as it lies
in the ear. You will notice that the Sound Magni-
fW
fier is shaped
like a trumpet,
and so con-
veys even the
faintest sounds
right to the
natural ear-
drum. Being
of the softest
rubber, j t can-
not hurt the
ear. It fits the
orifice of the
ear with preci-
sion and com-
fort. The di-
vision that
runs across the
mouth is to al-
low the remo-
val and inser-
tion of the
Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
Th e shape
of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has
been chosen
after years of
experience a s
the best adapt-
ed to carry the faintest sound right down to the
natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not only
trying to have people shout at them, but it hurts
the ear-drum. When age comes the ear-drum some-
times gets thickened, or loses its tightness, and
shouting does not act properly on it. It only
makes a confused and tiring noise. But the
Sound Magnifiers concentrate the sound in the best
spot for perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-nerve
completely, or were bom deaf, we cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could do that, in spite
of some of the absurd claims made to-day. But if
you can hear the faintest sound, do not despair
You will never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people in
Australia and New Zealand, who have been cured,
and you can be cured, too. You may wear the Ear-
Drums day and night, and take them out whenever
you wish. Children can wear them (we have spe-
cial sizes for children from six to twelve). Even
a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This _ includes a pair of drums (they
are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover and
also an inserter. After the first pair is bought you
may purchase a single drum at any time for Bs.,
but the pair you get at first will last quite
two years. Do not ask for a trial pair. We do
not send them out on trial, and so they are never
secondhand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent you at once, with the fullest
instructions. Don’t delay, but have the comfort of
good hearing as soon as you can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Cambridge Building,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which 1 enclose
One Pound.
Name.
Address
NOTE.—Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mint register it.
PILES
Xo those who suffer the agonising tor-
ture of Piles, a really genuine cure
conies as a boon and a blessing.
Such a remedy is
PETERS’
PILE CURE
which brings immediate releif and last-
ing cure.
Blind, Bleeding, Protru-
ding or itching Piles
yield to its firm but soothing influence.
Made in the form of an Ointment it is
Easy to apply.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE
WRITING (in ink)
Patent zanetic
by using your own BO °“
Letter Paper,
Invoices, &c.,
with this
Book.
••w
You simply insert
your writing paper in
the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by the
act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge to your communication.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which pro-
duces this result free, if stamped addressed envelope
sent, from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Weiford Road,
Leicester, England.
One complete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin.
x Bin. letters, for 3/9 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
(Money Order, not P.O.’s.)
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.


Fishing Nets, Bird Nets and Rabbit Nets.
We are the Largest Makers of these Nets in Australia, and can supply you better than any other House.
Kindly note that a FEW DAYS’ NOTICE IS REQUIRED FOR FISHING and BIRD NETS.
When ordering, kindly send sufficient to Cover Carriage.
No. 16.
m
-jp
Bnd/es
No. I.—Best Fishing Nets, well tanned, fitted ready for use, with Leads, Corks,
and Ropes; any Mesh from 1-& inch to 6 inch—
Depth ... 20 30 40 50 60 80 90 100 200yds. long
6ft 18/6 27/6 35/- 42/6 47/6 65/- 70/- 75/- 150/-each
Bft 21/- 30/- 37/6 47/6 55/- 70/- 75/- 85/- 155/-each
10ft 22/6 32/6 40/- 52/6 60/- 75/- 80/- 95/- 165/- each
12ft 25/- 37/6 42/6 57/6 65/- 105/- each
Corks, and Ropes; inch mesh—
Depth 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 yards long.
6ft 16/- 24/- 32/- 40/- 48/- 64/- 80/-each
Oft 23/- 34/6 46/- 57/6 69/- 92/- 115/-each
12ft 28/- 42/- 56/- 70/- 84/- 112/- 140/-each
No. 15. —Parrot and Cockatoo Trappers’ Nets, complete for working—
-6 x 15 210/- each 6 x 20 25/- each
6 x 25 27/6 each 6 x 30 35/- each
12 x 30 42/6 each
No. 16.—Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, fitted, complete with Ropes, Pegs and Sticks.
(Clap or Ground Nets) as illustrated.
5 x 12 21/-each 5 x 15 20/-each
5 x 20 27/6 each 5 x 25 32 6 each
5 x 30 37/6 each
No. 17.—Bat Folding Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, for night use, fitted in long
handles. Size of n>et, 6x9 feet, 27/6 each.
No, 18.—Rabbit Nets, made from best quality Thread. Small, <5/6 doz., 6d.
each; Medium, 8/6 doz., 9d. each; Rarge. 11/- doz., 1/- each.
Best Hemp Rabbit Netting, 3ft. deep, 3iin. mesh, 6d. per yd.
We can supply this netting in any length.
Write for a copy of our NEW EDITION ART FISHING TACKLE MAGAZINE-CATALOGUE.
Nothing like it ever before attempted. A REVELATION IN TACKLE CATALOGUES. Gratis and Post Free from
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Dired Importers and Sole Manufacturers of
the Renowned "Sure Catch ** .Fishing Tacßle,
Sydney, N.S.W.
DO YOU RIDE MUCH?
Yes? Well, you will know better than we
do the value of a comfortable saddle.
OUR QUEENSLAND PARR NO. 2
combines comfort for rider and horse. It is
only 151 b. in weight, and will answer the
purpose of stock riding, polo playing, or
hacking. It has a nice narrow waist for
grip, and a good sweep in the seat. The
flaps are soft kip leather and splendid for
grip, besides being light.
This saddle is fitted up with bevelled and
numbered leathers, solid nickel stirrups and
short double folded leather girths.
Freight paid to any Port in
Australia, if Cash is sent
with order, or any Railway
Station in New South Wales.
£5/15/-
(The same saddle sold in the Country for £6/15/-)
Write to-day for our New Illustrated Catalogue,
“ EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE. ”
120 Illustrations.
Edward Butler 8 Sons Limited,
Saddlers ,
257 George St-, Sydney
h
ĥ
To the Picnic
or Boating Party
a Thermos Vacuum Flask
is invaluable. Tea or coffee,
hot and refreshing, ready
at the moment wanted.
Invaluable also for scores of other
purposes. Hot liquids hot for 24
hours. Cold liquids cold for days
Sold by Stores, Ironmongers,
Jewellers, Chemists, & others
Wholesale: H. A. Parker&Co.,
Castlereagh Chambers, 10,
Castlereagh St., Sydney
ħ
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, <2h ddiness, 'Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘Fruit salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doub c that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumera.ble instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION .—Examine the Oapsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincere.'! t form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. UNO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
h
OTHER MODELS
From ?/6 to 40/*
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments. Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets .Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/®* Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
I Sets Bell Metai Reeds, Price 30/-, Post Free.
the: picnic model
. g Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 15/*, Post Free.
ran A AREE catalogue write TO <
ALLAN & Co.,
9176 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO GEELONG & ADELAIDE
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Blocu
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys .of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple test's for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
■in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s , Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, IS 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
m
9
M
U
I
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pa gl :s.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain languages, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, l Hit about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concer nimg mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of ? mien and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or w osnan who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy marrie d life in its
fullest sense; can afford to dispense with the inf ormatioi i embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arriwedL
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will b £ posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPE NCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*®
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His O wn Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ H.andybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. El,£mkniSs of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Tui'pei/the Score, <fc
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engicne Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptaaieron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lkf.’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s'Seicrets, 19 post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. TSie Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, fiflT" Established, So Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
O«LY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write tor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. .New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Hit. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 9'.! practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Dovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.,
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
i(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers’ and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Tips Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
■t,ound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


SEVMUNONIA
These are always ushered in by a Sudden Chill. The
next step is marked by a gradually rising Fever. The next
by Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Running Nose, Head=
ache, Cough, Painful Breathing or Expectoration.
Then you are at the critical turn. It calls for action, also care in
selecting the remedy to take, because delay and experimenting mean
death by Pneumonia or weakened lungs.
THE BEST REMEDY I THE SUREST REMEDY 1 THE SAFEST REMEDY I
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
m
N
VA \
The Safeguard of the Home
EVIDENCE!
“ Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has
indeed been a boon in our home,” writes
Mrs. C. Payne, Windmill Street, Valley,
Brisbane, Q. “My husband had a very
bad cold on the chest for a long time, and
although he tried several kinds of cough
cures did not obtain any relief whatever,
and, in fact, I began to think it would
never leave him. However, one day I
was given a bottle of Sheldon’s New
Discovery, which I got my husband to
try, although at first he laughed at the
idea of it giving him relief, having had
such poor results from the other medi-
cines, and, marvellous to say, it seemed
to relieve him at once. When this bottle
was finished I purchased another, and it
has entirely cured my husband. I also
had a very bad attack of bronchitis my-
self, and Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
cured me too. I have never come across
such a wonderful medicine. It is worth
its weight in gold, and I will never be
without it in the house.”
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is an unequalled preparation for the immediate
relief and permanent cure of all diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult
Respiration, and Pains in the Chest. When used according to directions is a sure preventive
of Pneumonia and Consumption. Every bottle guaranteed to give satisfaction, or money
refunded. Price 1/6 and 3/-, Hospital size 5/-. If not obtainable locally will be posted
upon receipt of the price by the Sheldon Drug Co. Ltd., Sydney.
NOTE.—In obstinate cases of chest complaints, DR. SHELDON’SI MAGNETICLAMENT will
relieve the congestion and materially assist the action of DR. SHELDON t> NEW DISCOVER .
This Liniment will greatly assist in effecting a speedy cure if thoroughly rubbed on chest
and throat while taking the “NEW DISCOVERY.”
D?Sheldon
o
New Discover
OUGHS
AND '£*
OLDS
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
ON THE HOP!
A. superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. F ull Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning' Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc*
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Liberal Constitution.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The Liberal party’s platform was an all-embracing
one. — Daily paper.
Jack Sprat would eat no fat,
His wife would eat no lean,
And so, betwixt them both, you see,
They licked the platter clean.
—Old nursery rhyme. .
GENTLEMEN, I’d like to mention,
with your very kind attention,
One important point I wish you all
to know:
We’ve a policy extensive and extremely com-
prehensive —-
Me an’ Joe.
As a fact, ’tis all-embracing, just to put the
matter flat;
Therefore, where’s the need to mention that
we favor “this” or “that”'?
Quite unlike the other party, we’re so vigor-
ous and hearty,
We can thrive on any diet, high or iow.
And, if you decide to follow us, just notice
what we swallow —
Me an’ Joe.
It is hardly worth while mentioning what
Joseph can’t digest,
And, when he has picked his dishes, I, with
ease, absorb the rest.
While the other folk are musing o’er the
menu, picking, choosing,
In a fashion most fastidious and slow,
At embracing or surrounding— all the meal
we are astounding—
Me an’ Joe.
As an economic method it admits no ifs or
buts ;
For we clean up all the courses from the
oysters to the nuts.
Legislative indigestion in regard to any
question
Marks the party whose vitality is low ;
Weaklings in the estimation of that sturdy
combination.
Me an’ Joe.
For the food that is politically poisonous to
me
Joe takes with relish, while —well, vice
versa, don’t you see.
I can take, with little trouble, foods political
that double
Joseph up, upon the floor, in direst woe ;
But they all declare, who’ve seen us, we’re
omnivorous between us —
Me an’ Joe.
Joseph’s fond of foods imported with a dash
of Tory sauce ;
I love fare more democratic and Australian
grown, of course.
Thus, observe, in fiscal matters.we contrive
to clean the platters.
’Tis surprising how we make the viands
go!
With our dual constitution we can do great
execution —-
Me an’ Joe.
And the others of our party have such
varied appetites
That there’s really very little left to feed
the cat o’ nights.
For, the others at the table, watching us,
are quickly able
To select the food they fancy most •
although
Some they find it hard to swallow in their
brave attempts to follow
Me an’ Joe.
Then a little Argus Syrup or some “Mother
’Erald’s Pills”
Are most useful in averting any gastrono-
mic ills.
Gentlemen, ’twould only weary you to state
in manner dreary
That we favor “this,” or “that,” or “so-
and-so,”
When, as you well know who’ve seen us, we
can scoff the lot between us —
Me an’ Joe.
And I warn you to be careful of that legis-
lative group
Which has appetite for nothing but mere
Democratic soup.
Such dyspeptic politicians are not fit for
their positions;
They are weak and puny creatures; let
them go;
And, whatever you adhere to, you can bet
your cause is dear to
Me —or Joe.
For our iron constitution is a thing to mar-
vel at,
And, when we ’’ave dined, as I have said,
there's little for the cat.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
The Brewer’s Revenge.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
J HE time was nine in the morning,
and the ti-tree had all the beauty in-
herent in its form; all the loveliness
its growth and the golden atmosphere and
the divinely blue sky and the divinely blue
sea brought to it. In the road by the plan-
tation, a conceited and magnificent rooster
like a chenille hat called urgently to his
straying hens, and when they dashed up to
him in an excitement anticipatory of worms
or other provender, he ostentatiously pre-
sented them with dried leaves and small
fragments of blue metal. Finding at last
that these repeated hoaxes were really invi-
tations to dalliance, they wearied of the
confidence trick and withdrew to the thick-
est scrub to madden their owner by laying
eggs in undiscoverable places.
A dog —made apparently of worn-out door-
mats which hung from him in towsled plaits
—played tiggy with a dog constructed
almost exclusively of greasy wool. A third
dog toyed with a ham-bone, the spoil of
some holiday camp. Summer and picnics
were in the air.
Mr. Bombazine, the brewer, had come to
Sandringham overnight to think matters
out. He was threatened with more local
option and fewer beer sales, and Prohibition
loomed in the shadows of excited Wowsers
who met in back streets, and talked alto-
gether, and parted again without getting
replies—mad as foraging ants. But the
beauty of the day took Mr. Bombazine s
miud off such trivial things as business ruin.
He had dived off the spring-board eigut
times, and every time he dived a worry got
washed away. Coming back from the baths
lie even played tiggy for a time with the
towsled dogs.
The early morning had been so beautiful
that he saw ten o’clock arrive with sorrow,
and he might have returned to the considera-
tion of his troubles had he not found dis-
traction. Walking into an open space in
the converging aisles of ti-tree, Mr. Bom-
bazine saw a man fixing two portable cop-
pers in their furnaces. .
“Aha,” said Bombazine, tremendously in-
terested, like a child, in everything that
morning; “Alia! here is to be much tea-
drinkings. A picnic is toward.”
The copper tender was a black-mous-
tached red-faced man. He lisped badly, and
his trousers were shapeless. Bombazine,
being a brewer, set him down as a. victim of
the Demon Drink.
“Picnic V” said he.
“Yetli,” replied the stranger. “Thothial
Puretee Thathiety, an’ Forward Exthelthior
Club, an’ Ever Upward Young Men’s Atho-
Uiiation, an’ Inward Help Cirltli combined
picnic.”
“Annual picnic?”
“No —spethal picnic t’ c’memorate Vic-
t’ry over th’ Demon.”
“Pantomime demon?”
“No —al’col.”
“Don’t you drink?”
“Not for 20 yeath —never wath a drinker,
any’ow, but they’re alwaytli gettin’ on t’ me
about me fathe.”
“Well, you know —no offence meant —but
you do look a bit —a bit on the red side,
eh?”
“Ith conthituthinal, tliir —an’ I dthink
loth of tea. If I didn’t, d’ye think they’d
give me a jobth?”
“Oh, they engage you at all their pic-
nics?”
“Yetli; but I nearly didn’t get the work
tliitli time. Mr. Pennychook didn’t want me
to have the jobth.”
“Who’s Mr. Pennychook?”
“Reverend Mithter Pennychook, Pretlii-
dent of the Thothial Puretee Thathiety,
Patron of the Exthelthior, Treathurer of
the Ever Upward, and Chairman of the In-
ward Help Girlth.”
“And he doesn’t like you?”
“He inthulth me. He tliayth I drink. He
won’t believe ith indigethion.”
“I see.”
“One of thetlie dayth I’ll show him.”
A sulky man had been all the morning
unloading a lorry. Helped by the driver he
discharged and subsequently erected a bar-
rel-organ, a pole, certain timbers and iron
work, a few cars without wheels, and a
number of dingy, wooden, rampant horses,
half-pony size, with magenta wide-blown
nostrils of wood and papier mache ears —the
apparatus of the righteous merry-go-round
intended for the delight, of the saints. The
morose man had a long, melancholy coun-
tenance, a beard like a horse’s tail, and a
large drooping nose shaped like an inverted
Y, and these peculiarities drew the attention
of Bombazine away from the person of the
glowing countenance. He was recalled by
the lisper speaking in the tone of one suffer- i
ing a lively injury. |
“Thath the round-aboutli for the picnic.
The Reverend Mithter Pennychook ridth on
it all day.”
“Alone?” asked Bombazine.
“No ! Mithter ! He’th never alone. Thum-
timeth ith the Exthelthior Girlth on ’ortlie-
back —thumtimeth Inward l Elp Girlth in a
car.”
“I see. Always a lady.”
“Yetli —an’ talk! At the lunch an’ the
tea to-day he’ll talk of alco’l an’ look at me
all the timeth.”
A wild idea came to Bombazine. He
laughed as he thought of it, and laughed
again.
“Would you like to keep him quiet for one
day?”
“Would I? Wouldn’t I! Oh, no! Oh,
no!”
“He drinks a lot of tea?” „
“Lothth !”
“You prepare the teapots?”
“Yetli —all o’ them.”
“If I gave you a sovereign and two bottles
with —er —lemonade in them?”
“What kind of lemonade, Mithter?”
“Rum!”
“Yetli —it mixtheth better- —I mean I’ve
’eard it doeth.”
“Will you do it?”
“Yetli —I will—an’ glad, t 00.... Always
talkin’ at me, he ith.”
“I’ll bring you the rum. Come when it’s
over for the quid. What’s your name —eh —
Webclose? Right.”
By noon all was ready. The sulky man
had completed the building of the gloomy
machine he called a merry-go-round. He
now attached the driving belt of the port-
able organ to the mechanism, and bent him-
self double at the driving crank to see if the
tremendous engine was in working order.
The cogged wheels on the centre pole turned,
the belt began to run, the organ broke into
a soul-destroying wail.
“What’s he playing?” asked Bombazine
of Webclose.
“ ‘Gatetli Ajar for Me,’ ” replied Web-
close. “Mithter Pennychook mak’th ’em get
a organ with hymnth. He callth other
thtuff deviltli muthic.”
Whilst the sulky man turned the handle,
and the organ droned the hymns for the
trial trip, enter the picnic. The Bottle-oh’s
picnic-—the very energetic function of a few
weeks before —had made furniture vans un-
fashionable for the moment, and this affair
had travelled by train. It arrived singly,
and in couples and quartettes, bringing
with it baskets intended to supplement the
large quantities of cake and sandwiches
already on the ground.
The Social Purity Society proved mostly
middle-aged and dowdy, and Mrs. Carboy
was a lady so forbidding that she would,
an’ she could, forbid the grass to go to seed
until it had been lawfully married.
The Forward Excelsior Club was of
mixed sexes, mostly young people of the un-
thinking age; and its secretary was Mr.
McKinney, a large man whose red whiskers
(Continued on next page.)


MISHAPS «‘OUTBAGK
in the Homestead, Sewer's Hut, Shearer's Shed
and Bushman's Camp, Zam-Buk is invaluable .
EXPOSED constantly to painful accidents and minor mis-
haps, a handy pot of Zam-Buk is the bushman’s trusty
friend. Perhaps a flying “ chip ’* inflicts a nasty
wound on his leg whilst ** splitting" or wood-
cutting, or his foot gets a smarting scald while
lifting the billy off the camp fire—but whether
following his occupation or in the camp at night,
cuts, bruises, burns, scalds and numerous other
mishaps are ever ready to step in and cause pain
and inconvenience, and the way to make and keep
the injured part thoroughly clean and “ sweet,”
and quickly heal it with new, healthy skin, is to
apply Zam-Buk, Ploughing, fencing, branding,
shearing, cooking and carpentering each contribute
their share of minor dangers, but whether in the
homestead, the settler’s cot, the bushman’s hut,
or the shearer’s shed, Zam-Buk is the one perfect
and reliable healer to keep on hand.
11'/?'
1
'Vs
Mr. Geo. H. Orchard, of Abbermain, Newcastle, N.S.W., says: "Six years ago, whilst
getting timber, I cut my left foot severely with an axe, necessitating seven stitches being put
in. The wound, however, would not heal up, and proud flesh appeared very often. For two
years 1 was troubled in this way, and although I tried many remedies and home treatments,
the wound obstinately refused to heal
“At last I was induced to give Zam-Buk a trial, and I am pleased to sav that, after the
first few applications I felt great relief. I decided to continue with Zam-Buk, and so perse-
vered with this splendid healing balm until the wound was completely healed. It is over two
years since Zam-Buk cured me, yet I have had no trouble with my foot since. On several
occasions I have used Zam-Buk, and every time with success, and have always found it very
soothing and a quick healer.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS A POT.
The home that keeps a pet of Zam-Buk always handy Is furnished with the ever-ready healer
and skin-cure, and with a reliable remedy for cuts, burns, bruises, scalds, abrasions,
eczema, scalp sores, piles, bad legs, festering and swelling
from blood-polsonlngfand any burning, irritating, itching
sores. Zam-Buk is obtainable from all chemists and stores.
ĥ
1/6 «<
3/6
PER
POT.
“RUB it in
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is ixwaluable for both children and adults.
CHAMBERLAINS
COUGH REMEDY.
&
w
¥/.
CURES INFLUENZA.
Danger from influenza may he avoided hy the
use of Chamberlain's Cough Remedy. The pain
in the chest disappears: the fevers subsides;
' ' •> ' *
the whole body becomes comfortable, and you
escape the after effects *of the disease.
were like half-teased oakum. Recognising
that strength and wisdom should help weak-
ness and simplicity, he devoted himself to
the girl Excelsiors —here a little, and there
a little—patting this inquiring maiden en-
couragingly on the shoulder, and that one
on the back, ever ready to hold timid little
fingers and help their owner through the
trees. He neglected the young men Excel-
siors, but he set them a fine example, for
his motto was, “Love one another,” especi-
ally if the other be a girl.
The Ever Upward ¥oung Men were few
in number, but many in strength and earn-
estness.
The Inward Help Girls’ Society was very
like to the female wing of the Forward Ex-
celsiors ; so the man with the oakum whis-
kers took care of them, too.
The games began. The man with the
oakum whiskers led his lady charges to
Twos-and-Threes and Kiss-in-the-Ring, con-
triving in the first game to be a Three
most of the time, and so getting himself
nicely squeezed between an Inward Help
sister and a Forward Excelsior lady. When
that palled he went to. Kiss-in-the-Ring—a
game in which his popularity was un-
doubted; that is, if the dropping of the
handkerchief is any proof. At such times
his prey scattered like startled hens, utter-
ing little shrieks of protest, but trailing a
wing so that he caught them with suspicious
suddenness.
Said Bombazine to himself as he watched
them: “If those girls can’t run any faster
than that there’ll be a lot of lives lost when
the Japs invade Australia.”
The Rev. Pennychook rather frowned on
Kiss-in-the-Ring and Twos-and-Threes, al-
though he was partial to Hunt-the-Slipper,
which is a nice intimate sort of game, and
one calculated to put all parties concerned
on a friendly footing. But he preferred the
rapid movement of the merry-go-round.
Mounted on his pockmarked wooden steed,
with the aisles of ti-tree careering round
him, he imagined himself a bushranger and
a devil of a fellow, and only dignity re-
strained him from shouting his delight.
But at one o’clock the bell rang. Mr.
Pennychook left his panting steed. The
sulky man wiped the sweat from his brow
and' sat under the awning of his morose
merry-go-round to eat his dinner. Kiss-in-
the-Ring and TWos-and-Threes stopped sud-
denly. The picnickers gathered around the
refreshments. Mr. Pennychook said grace.
They sang “Rescue the Perishing” to the
surprised birds in the ti-tree, and imme-
diately set to rescuing themselves with large
masses of food.
Mr. Pennychook beamed and drank two
cups of tea before he spoke. Mrs. Carboy,
sitting near him, gazed at him with pleading
reverence and clamant affection, waiting for
his words of wisdom. McKinney sat before
him. The three great people ate and were
almost gay. It was then that Bombazine’s
lemonade commenced to push itself through
the tea. Mr. Pennychook thanked Provi-
dence for all Its goodness, and lifted his cup
to the attendant Webclose.
“That’s the bes’ cup o’ tea rever had ’n
me life,” said Mr. Pennychook. “I’ll take
’nother cup.”
A splendid glow seemed to spread over
the whole world. The sunlight was a dream
of gold. He had never seen ti-tree so sub-
limely beautiful. The earth was made of
rose and chrome. It was the first time he
had experienced the real Christmas feeling
—not merely that of negative peace and
perfunctory goodwill to all men —but an all-
embracing active love for everybody. His
little bun hat became a crown. He felt that
he was a king, a benevolent despot who
could order all the world to execution, but
had declined out of his splendid magnani-
mity and greatness of soul.
He looked at Mrs. Carboy’s nose, and
thought that it was not so red as once it had
appeared to him. He felt for Mrs. Carboy
some of the towering affection that had
come to him for all things.
“Exhilarating, isn’t it, this weather?”
said Mr. Pennychook to Mrs. Carboy.
“I think it’s too warm,” replied Mrs. Car-
boy.
“Beautiful! beautiful!” said Mr. Penny-
chook, who had had three cups of fortified tea.
“The sun is beautiful, the sea is beautiful,
the picnic is beautiful, we are all beautiful.”
“All?” said Mrs. Carboy, hopefully.
“Nearly all,” replied Mr. Pennychook,
hedging a little. “Almost everybody. All
have not actual beauty of feature or of
coloring, but there is a moral beauty—a
splenderer soul—an ’tractiveness of mind.”
Mrs. Carboy flushed angrily.
“I’ll take ’nother cup, repeated Mr.
Pennychook.
And Webclose took the cup and refilled it.
“I’ll have some out of your teapot,” said
Mrs. Carboy, “as it seems so good.”
McKinney had a whiff of Mr. Pennychook’s
steaming cup as it passed him, and seemed
impressed also.
“Ve-e-ery, ve-e-e-ry fragrant,” said McKin-
ney.
“Ve-e-e-ry fragrant, indeed. I’ll ’ave a
cup outer that pot, if you don’t mind.”
Mr. Pennychook, of course, assented, and
Webclose poured out another cup from the
parson’s pot, and handed it to McKinney,
and another to Mrs. Carboy. The action
brought him close to Mr. Pennychook, and
that gentleman, being well through his
fourth cup, looked at him reproachfully, and
said: “Webclose! Webclose! O Webclose,
my dear friend —Webclose.”
“There y’are,” said Webclose. “At me
again. What’ve I done now?”
“Webclose! Webclose! Man’s enemy!
Fie! Fie! Webclose —the demon drink!
Beware Webclose.”
“Never had nothin’ to-day—there,” said
Webclose indignantly.
“Fie! Fie ! my dear friend. Commit not
another sin. Why ! I smell the vile thing.”
“Ve-ery fragrant, indeed,” said McKinney
drinking down to the thick part of the
beverage. “IT have another cup, please.”
“You’ve had more than I’ve had to-day,”
said Webclose, his indignation turning to
merriment.
“Webclose, you forget yourself,” said Mrs.
Carboy. “Give me another cup, and pray
for strength to conquer your disgusting
habit.”
“All right! All right!” said Wehclose,
“I’ll give y’ ’nother cup.”
“And one for me, Webclothe-close,” said
Mr. Pennychook. “An’ pray f’r stren’,
Webcls—pray f’r stren’.”
Mrs. Carboy looked at him, amazed at his
thick utterances. So did McKinney. But
by-and-bye Webclose came back with the
tea, and they forgot everything in a new
world. The splendor of things which had
earlier appealed to Mr. Pennychook came to
them. Mrs. Carboy looked at the new
beauty of the world, and burst into tears.
“This will never do,” said Mr. Penny-
chook. “Nev’-nev’-nev’ mine. Come an’
worship at the —at the templernature. That’s
it. Come along.”
He led them whither he would.
Naturally he went to his greatest amuse-
ment —-the merry-go-round. He rode three
wooden horses to a standstill, beating their
impassive sides with a long ti-tree switch,
and then succumbed to the invitation of
Mrs. Carboy and the man with the oakum
whiskers, and joined them in their car. They
sat altogether on the front seat, so that its
light end sawed the air as they revolved.
Mr. Pennychook sat on the inner edge of
the car, and as the sulky man, in turning
the handle, presented an unconquerable
temptation to the switch, Mr. Pennychook
laughed wildly, and leaning out of the car,
struck the sulky man on that part of him
which was highest when he picked up chips,
“Gee-up!” said Mr. Pennychook. “Gee-
up !”
The sulky man started as if stung,
smothered a malediction when he saw his
assaulter, and turned the handle furiously
until his eyes bulged like a boiled lobster’s.
“Faster! faster!” cried Mr. Pennychook
in great joy, whipping the sulky man as he
passed him at every revolution of the car,
and enjoying the speed more because the
organ turned the faster.
The world became more beautiful to Mr.
Pennychook. He was a chauffeur now,
rescuing distressed damsels from Sicilian
brigands, and with his switch he put the
sulky man on his third speed, and as the
merry-go-round turned so did the worm. He
let go the handle, and was almost brained
by the crank in its next turn. Despite Mr.
Pennychook’s demands and prayers, he said
he would not do another revolution for him
who forgot Christian kindness so much as
to beat with a switch a lowly but honorable
toiler on his rearward parts. Nothing
could move him; the merry-go-round should
turn no more that day.
Mr. Pennychook, Mr. McKinney and Mrs.
Carboy left the merry-go-round and turned
to the games. Even Mrs. Carboy joined in
Twos-and-Threes, and, alas! was always a
Two. Mr. Pennychook, in his new-found
liberation, joined the game, too, and soon
became as popular in the middle part of the
human sandwich as Mr. McKinney. But
though they played the same role all the
time new girls came to make up their
rapidly-changing Threes every other minute.
Alas! for human weakness. Twos-and-
Threes became Twos. They played Kiss-in-
the-Ring, and from that to kissing out of
their turn in the ring, and out of the ring,
wherever caught, was not a great step.
The two had become popular with all the
girls, and objects of cold dislike for the other
males in the game. By the time afternoon-
tea was ready Mrs. Carboy regarded Mr.
Pennychook as an angel still, but an angel
fallen several thousand feet, and nigh to
common clay. But she had another cup
from Mr. Pennychook’s teapot, and became
cheerfully resigned; and Mr. Pennychook
had three cups, and the oakum-whiskered
man had two, and the afternoon-tea was
thicker than the tea of noon. Under these
untoward circumstances Mr. Pennychook
stood up to address societies.
“Brethr’n,” he said. “We meet to shel’-
brate vict’ry over liquor party—over forces
darkness —over demon —destroy’n demon —
Al’col. I earn’ und’sthand men fillin’ them-
s’lv’s with ac-ac-cursed stuff. Carn’ un-
d’sth’nd. Gimme tea! I shay, gimme tea.
. ...Plen’y tea.... I’ll ’ave ’nuther cupper
tea d’reckly. Curs’d stuff—disgustin’ habit.
.... Gimme tea.”
He cocked his little bun hat rakishly over
his left ear, and continued: —
“I will not—not detain you. Let’s shing
Old Hundre.”
They sang it. Was it merely an aural
trick that made the people who had not
drunk of the parson’s pot think that Mr.
Pennychook and McKinney sang not the
holy words but these: —
There were two crows sat on a tree,
And they were black, as black could be ;
That he-crow said unto his mate:—
“Where can we get some food to ate?”
The combined societies withdrew with
much whispering and nodding of heads, and
Mrs. Carboy, awakened from her splendid
dream of beauty, followed the last of the
Inward Help Girls. The theological young
men and the Ever Upward Brothers had
vanished long before. Mr. McKinney could
not bear to lose all the tenderness and sim-
plicity that had been his that day. He fol-
lowed, and Mr. Pennychook was left alone.
He wept at the defection. A glimmering
of the truth came to him, and with it some
new human knowledge and toleration of
other’s weakness. Webclose had disap-
peared ; the refreshment contractors were
packing up ; but Mr. Pennychook found the
blessed and accursed teapot, and drank his
fill, and could think of nothing but pity for
himself. He felt terribly alone, and walked
uncertainly to the beach. A sudden rage
filled him, and he tore the little bun hat off
his head and threw it into three feet of
water. “Far out at sea! Far out at sea!”
he murmured tearfully.
It was at that moment that a policeman
decided that he saw a projected suicide, and
he ran to the beach to dissuade the man who
was tired of life.
But Mr. Pennychook had forgotten his
hat and the sea, and offered the policeman
certain long-winded observations on Pre-
destination, Faith and Works, rejecting the
first and the last, although that morning he
had believed in them fanatically. But now
Faith was all that was left him, and he had
to cling to that.
On the winding beach-road walked Web-
close, glad, and clasping a sovereign. “He
won’t inthult me any more,” said Webclose.
“Never any more.”
Deep in the ti-tree a man laughed him-
self to exhaustion, prone on the sand and
kicking up his heels in joy. That was Bom-
bazine.
And when the moon rose, Mr. Penny-
chook did a duck’s walk to the railway sta-
tion, dimly aware of a storm due to burst
some time —but perhaps not for a hundred
years—but talking loudly Methodist theo-
logy to the policeman he had drugged with
words.
The two tousled dogs had stopped playing
“Tiggy” at dusk.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Th
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
W..-V-
-.
&
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
i~lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 rbe v °;\ ,s Ejected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unte-
nable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is ver) simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct. J
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
_ FULL PARTICULAItS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
WewZealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington
Simplest stud Most
Reliable.
l
mm®*
ħ
Steam, Air and Water.
For
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
167 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
METZ CARS
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-Priced
4-Cvlinder 1 w P ? J v°a •“"*&** the Metz ¥-P-, Friction Drive.
cylinder, VV ater-Cooled Roadster. This is the
CAR FOR THE COUNTRY.
PRICE COMPLETE, WITH FULL EQUIPMENT,
Sole Agents— for Catalogue. Ow l I
Nett.
BROWN & HELLICAR LTD..
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
J
tm
:
Write for full particulars to
EC ONOMY
tiering machine.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor —Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
h
When You’re
a Grandfather
You can look back with pride to the
Steam Engine you purchased as a
young man. This is only possible pro-
viding you selected a
u
MARSHALL
99
WI Light a°Bd bt Heavv P^H rld S s? tr ° n^ St and inost reli able Steam
■xtra wide wheels, suitable to Australian^condidom^Oi^T/ and , Gom P° und -
where wood and water is
stiS li Vmi ? Stationary, Vertical Boilers, 2 to 12 h p a
£2 1 lr°! b ' forking pressure. Marshall’s world-famed Port
ables, 2 to 35 h.p., fitted with extra large Colonial Firebox
Cash or Easy Terms. Illustrated Catalogue Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
Street, Sydney.
IT IS RISKY
JMJLJL
-(Di r
m
A
x
w
' vl ♦«» /
7a
m
hfcgfc
/
R
V/fs-t+r-
iihi
Wlliu
u\ t « 1 1, w 't ,.
V-K%
i
TO BE OUT OF REACH OF
BUCHANS HUS
BUSINESS MEM and OTHERS in n«»d of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT :
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
THE BANKING HOUSE, Pitt Street,Sydn»y ( N»$.W. V
who LEND MONEY on sny REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. fred. mcwilliam, Manager.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New anti thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone P.ace.
E for Empire, the car for great fun,
M for Machine, it’s an excellent one,
P for Popular, the reason we will explain.
I for If you write us to ascertain.
R for Regular equipment we supply,
E for Empire, so why not buy?
ROY W.SANDFORD, Ltd
181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. \
105 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Chalmers and Empire Cars.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK. LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
COMBINED ELECTRIC LIGHTING and REFUSE DESTRUCTOR INSTALLATIONS
are now proved to be the most economical for Electric Lighting of
Towns. '
The “ Heenan ” Patent Destructor
embodies the latest patents in connection with Eel use Destruction.
Estimates Furnished on Application to the Australian Agency
T. K. ST€AN€S, 37-43 Pitt St., Sydijey
ft
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable For Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. Yon only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding: and labor for a
building- of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THIS SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog- L to sole importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
“TANGYE ”
Portable Type Oil Engine.
“TANQYE ”
Suction Gas Producer Plant.
h
f s.
m
“ CLAYTON and
SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable Steam Engine.
DALGETY’S
Machinery Department
SYDNEY: Miller’s Point
MELBOURNE : a’Beckett Street
and at
BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON,
TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE
and FREMANTLE.
TANGYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Gas
Engines and Suction Gas Plants,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Irriga-
tion Plants and PUMPS of all descriptions.
ĥ
MILKING MACHINES. AH the
leading Dairvfarmers are installing
the “GANE.” It is a highly fin-
ished machine and a wonderful Labor Saver.
‘CLAYTON g
T-, , f Y I
Portable, Steam and Traction
Thrashers, Centrifugal Pumps, etc.
99
_ .
Eiii^incSf
THE
■
HE
* MACHINES
ic fry & co.nD^ S
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for
B. F. STURTEVANT CO.
Multivane Fan.
This is the most efficient Commercial Fan in the world. Service tests, under the most
trying conditions, have proved conclusively that this fan will deliver a given amount of air
at a given pressure at an expenditure of considerably less power than other types. It
occupies less space, is correspondingly lighter, and can T>e built to run at the highest
speeds. We carry Stocks.
WRITE FOR. CATALOGUE No. 18 0.
’.■V
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores, Farms and Townships
TJ)« “DE LAITTE”
AIR-(aAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest Illuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.'V. Government and by the Railway
Commissioners of N.S.'V. and Victoria. Thousands
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large
Machines supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy. , Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
Messrs.
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
B§t
I!
ħ
Large Stock
iULtP-SHfism
Amid the wnirl and hustle of the large shearing shed, where
work is at high pressure and where every minute counts- there
is found unvarying appreciation of the “Lister” machine.
Whether you be a large or small sheepowner, the Lister—the
keynote to improvements in Sheep-Shearing Machinery—will
always give satisfaction.
All parts interchangeable with the Wolseley.
Send for Catalogue.
1
Agents
iß6ebye&C?syoiuy
CHERSEN ROCK DRILLS
Are the Fastest of all
Rock Drills.
The Simplest in
Construction.
The Lowest in Air-con-
sumption per ft. Drilled.
3"
4
h
4
Best British Materials
and Workmanship
throughout, conse-
quently Low Cost of
Upkeep.
SpLE AGENTS*
>&
Mining Machinery
Merchants,
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
